; |abovestyle=background:inherit; font-weight:bold; |labelstyle=background:inherit; white-space:nowrap; |above= Harry Potter booksThe Tales of Beedle the Bard |image=  |caption = UK (left) and US (right) covers of the standard edition of the book. |label1= Author |data1= J. K. Rowling |label2= Illustrator |data2= J. K. Rowling |label3= Genre |data3= Fantasy |label4= Auction date |data4= December 13, 2007(handmade edition) |label5=Winning bid |data5=£1.95 / $3.98&nbsp;million(Amazon.com) |label6= Publishers |data6= Bloomsbury(UK and Canada)Scholastic(United States)Amazon.com(Collector's Edition |label7= Publication date |data7= December 4, 2008 |label8= Pages |data8= 157&lt;/ref&gt; (handmade edition)  The Tales of Beedle the Bard is a book of children's stories by British author J. K. Rowling. It purports to be the storybook of the same name mentioned in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, the last book of the Harry Potter series.The book was originally produced in a limited edition of only seven copies, each handwritten and illustrated by J. K. Rowling. One of them, the moonstone edition, was offered for auction in late 2007 and was expected to sell for £50,000 ($103,000); ultimately it was bought for £1.95&nbsp;million ($3.98&nbsp;million) by Amazon, making the selling price the highest achieved at auction for a modern literary manuscript. The money earned at the auction of the book was donated to The Children's Voice charity campaign.It was announced on July 31, 2008 that the book will be published for the general public on December 4, 2008 in the United Kingdom, Canada, and the United States, with the proceeds going to charity.Background, found by Hermione Granger above "The Tale of the Three Brothers".]] The first mention of The Tales of Beedle the Bard appeared in J. K. Rowling's 2007 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, the seventh and final novel of the Harry Potter series. The fictitious book, that functions as a plot device, is bequeathed to Hermione Granger by Albus Dumbledore, headmaster of the Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. The book is described as a popular collection of Wizarding children's fairy tales, thus while Ron Weasley is familiar with the stories, Harry Potter and Hermione Granger had not previously heard them due to their non-magical upbringing.The edition Hermione received in chapter seven in Dumbledore's will is a copy of the original edition of fictional books in the novel. It is described as an ancient-looking small book with its binding "stained and peeling in places". In the novel it is also said the book has a title on its cover, written in embossed runic symbols.The book acts as the vehicle for introducing the Deathly Hallows. Above the story "The Tale of the Three Brothers", Hermione Granger finds a strange symbol which later is revealed by Xenophilius Lovegood to be the symbol of the Hallows. The triangle from the symbol represents the Invisibility Cloak, the circle inside the triangle symbolizes the Resurrection Stone, and the vertical line represents the Elder Wand.These three objects are also mentioned in the story itself (see below), and are said to belong to the Peverell brothers, who are later revealed as being Harry Potter's ancestors. Towards the end of the novel, the spirit of Albus Dumbledore also confirms Harry's connection to the Peverells, and states that the three brothers might in fact have been the creators of the Hallows.Publication historyRowling started writing the book soon after finishing work on the seventh Harry Potter novel. During an interview with her fandom she also stated that she used other books as a source of inspiration for the tales. More specifically, "The Tale of the Three Brothers", the only story included entirely in The Deathly Hallows, was inspired by Geoffrey Chaucer's "The Pardoner's Tale" from The Canterbury Tales.Handmade editionInitially The Tales of Beedle the Bard has only been produced in a limited number of seven handmade copies, all handwritten and illustrated by the author herself. The books were bound with brown Moroccan leather, and decorated with hand-chased silver ornaments and mounted semi-precious stones by Hamilton & Inches Ltd. in Edinburgh. Rowling also asked that each of the seven copies be decorated with different stones. In an interview, the author stated that she conceived of the books as a way of thanking six people who were most involved with the Harry Potter series,The identities of the six people have not been published. and decided to create a seventh copy to sell at auction in order to raise funds for The Children's Voice charity campaign.AuctionThe "moonstone edition" of the book was first put on display prior to bidding on 26 November in New York and on 9 December in London. The book was auctioned 13 December, 2007, at Sotheby's in London. The starting price was £30,000 ($62,000), and originally it was expected to sell for approximately £50,000 ($103,000). The closing bid far exceeded all prior projections, as ultimately the book was purchased by a representative from London fine art dealers Hazlitt Gooden and Fox on behalf of Amazon, for a total of £1.95&nbsp;million ($3.98&nbsp;million). This was the highest purchase price for a modern literary manuscript at the date. The money earned at auction later was donated by Rowling to The Children's Voice charity campaign.Sotheby's printed a forty-eight page promotional catalogue to promote the auction. The catalogue featured illustrations from the book, as well as comments from J. K. Rowling on The Tales of Beedle the Bard. The catalogue was sold as a collector's item, and the money from the sales also has been donated to The Children's Voice charity campaign.Public editionsOn July 31, 2008, it was announced that The Tales of Beedle the Bard will also be published in standard and collector's editions for the public, by Bloomsbury, Scholastic, and Amazon.com. The decision was taken due to disappointment among Harry Potter fans after being initially announced that a wide public release is not intended. The book, due to be released on December 4, 2008, will be published in the United Kingdom, and Canada by Bloomsbury, while the US edition will be published by Scholastic, and the special limited collector's edition of the book, which will be available in all three countries, by Amazon. The limited edition will retail for £50 ($100), and around 100,000 copies will be printed. Profits from the sale of the book will be given to the Children's High Level Group, and it is expected to raise an estimated £4 million ($7.6 million).OverviewRowling wrote five stories for the book. One, "The Warlock's Hairy Heart", is not mentioned in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows; three others, "The Wizard and the Hopping Pot", "The Fountain of Fair Fortune", and "Babbitty Rabbitty and her Cackling Stump", receive cursory attention. "The Tale of the Three Brothers" is the only story also included entirely in The Deathly Hallows.Handmade editionThe limited handmade edition has been produced in seven copies, each handwritten and illustrated by J. K. Rowling.&lt;/ref&gt; The books are bound in brown Moroccan leather, and decorated with silver and semi-precious stones, each copy being decorated with a different type of stone. Rowling has also written different dedications for each of the seven copies of the book. The moonstone edition has 157 pages.Public editionsSimilarly to Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them and Quidditch Through the Ages, two other storybooks mentioned in the Harry Potter novels which have been printed as well, the standard and the collector's editions of The Tales of Beedle the Bard will feature commentary and footnotes from Albus Dumbledore, headmaster of Hogwarts and one of the main characters of the series. The standard edition will also include illustrations reproduced from the handwritten edition auctioned in December 2007, and the introduction by the author. The limited collector's edition will feature ten illustrations by J. K. Rowling not included in the standard edition or the original handcrafted edition, as well as an exclusive reproduction of J. K. Rowling's handwritten introduction, and other miscellaneous objects such as replica gemstones and an emerald ribbon.Synopses&quot;The Wizard and the Hopping Pot&quot;This first story of the book features an illustration on its first page representing a pot standing on a single foot with five toes.This story is about the legacy of an old man who, in his generosity, uses his pot to brew magical potions and antidotes for other people when they needed his help. Upon his death, he leaves all his belongings to his only son, who has none of the qualities his father had. After his father's death, the son finds the pot and a single slipper inside it together with a note from his father that reads, "In the fond hope, my son, that you will never need this".Bitter for having nothing left but a pot, the son closes the door on every person who asks for his help. Each time he does so, the pot takes on the symptoms of the ones who ask for help. This continues until the son finally gives up and provides aid to the town. While he does this, the pot empties and a mysterious slipper falls out — one that perfectly fits the foot of the pot, and together the two walk off into the sunset.&quot;The Fountain of Fair Fortune&quot;The picture of a sparkling, flowing fountain accompanies this story, and around it a few stars and sparkles. Below the text, there is a second drawing of a small rose bush.In this story, there is a fountain where once per year, one person may bathe to have his or her problems answered. This is how three witches meet. The first witch, Asha, suffers from a disease. The second, Altheda, endures poverty due to a robbery. The third, Amata, is distraught after being left by her beloved. The three witches decide to try to reach the fountain together but along the way, a knight also joins them.On their path to the fountain, they face three challenges. The first two involve a giant worm that demands "proof of their pain" and a steep slope where they have to bring the "fruit of their labours". The third challenge, crossing a river, requires them to pay with "the treasure of their past". Amata passes the challenge by using magic to withdraw the memories of her ex-lover and drop them into the water.At the fountain, Asha collapses from exhaustion. To save her, Altheda brews an invigorating potion that also cures Asha of her disease and need of the fountain. Altheda realises that her skills are a means to earn money, so she also no longer needs the fountain. The third witch realises that washing away her regret for her lover removed her need as well. The knight bathes in the water, after which he flings himself at Amata's feet and asks for her "hand and her heart". Everyone gets an answer to his or her problem, unaware that the fountain held no magical power at all.&quot;The Warlock's Hairy Heart&quot;This is the only one of the five stories featured in The Tales of Beedle the Bard which is not also mentioned in Deathly Hallows. A hairy heart covered in coarse hair and dripping blood is drawn on this story's page while beneath the text, there is a second drawing of an old-fashioned key with three loops at the top, lying in a pool of blood.The story is about a young and handsome warlock who decides to never fall in love, so he uses Dark Arts to prevent himself from doing so. His family, hoping he will change, does nothing. However, one day, he hears two servants whispering about him not having a wife, so he decides to find a talented, rich, and beautiful girl and marry her to gain everyone's envy.He meets that girl the next day. Though the girl is both "fascinated and repelled", the warlock persuades her to come to a dinner feast at his castle. During the feast, she tells him that she needs to know he has a heart. The warlock shows her his beating hairy heart inside a crystal casket in his dungeon. The witch begs him to put it back inside himself. After the warlock does so, she embraces him. However, being disconnected from its body for so long, his heart is "pierced" by the beauty of her skin and the scent of her hair. Later the other guests find their host and the witch dead.&quot;Babbitty Rabbitty and her Cackling Stump&quot;The drawings that are found on this story's page represent a large tree stump, with 20 growth rings. A little crack can be seen at the bottom of the stub, and inside, in the dark, two glowing eyes. Under the text is a small narrow paw print, with four toes.This story is about a king who wants to keep all magic to himself. To do this he needs to solve two problems: he must capture the witches in the kingdom and he has to learn magic. He creates a "Brigade of Witch Hunters" and calls for an instructor in magic. Only a "cunning charlatan" with no magical ability responds. The charlatan proves himself with a few simple tricks but starts making demands for jewellery and money to continue teaching. However, Babbitty, the king's washerwoman laughs at his tricks. This causes the king to demand the charlatan join him in a public demonstration of magic and warns that the charlatan will be beheaded if anyone laughs. The charlatan later witnesses Babbitty performing magic in her house. He threatens to expose her if she does not assist him. She agrees to hide and help the demonstration.During the performance, the brigade captain asks the king to bring his dead hound back to life. Because Babbitty's magic is unable to raise the dead, the crowd realizes the previous acts were tricks. The charlatan exposes Babbitty, accusing her of blocking the spells. Babbitty flees into a forest and disappears at the base of an old tree. In desperation, the charlatan states that she has turned "into a crab apple" and has the tree cut down.As the crowd departs, the stump starts cackling and makes the charlatan confess. The stump cackles again, demanding the king never hurt a wizard again, and build a statue of Babbitty on the stump so that he is reminded of his foolishness. The king agrees and heads back to the palace. Afterwards, a "stout old rabbit" with a wand in its teeth hops out from a hole beneath the stump and leaves the kingdom.&quot;The Tale of the Three Brothers&quot;This is the only one of the five stories featured in The Tales of Beedle the Bard whose plot is also given in Deathly Hallows, in chapter XXI. It is accompanied by two illustrations: the first one, located in the upper part of the page represents three human skulls, the one in the middle having the Hallows' symbol on its forehead. The second one, located in the lower part of the page is a drawing of the three Hallows.The story is about three brothers who, travelling together, reach an impassable river. They make a magical bridge over the river. Halfway across the bridge, they meet the personification of Death who is angry for losing another three victims. He pretends to be impressed by them and grants each a wish as a reward. The eldest brother asks for an unbeatable duelling wand. The middle brother asks for the ability to resurrect the dead. The youngest brother realises Death's intentions and asks for a way to stop Death from following him. Death gives him a cloak of invisibility. Afterwards, the brothers go their separate ways.The eldest brother, bragging about his powerful wand, is robbed while asleep and killed. The middle brother uses his ability to bring back the woman he loved, who died before he could marry her. However, she is not happy being alive again. He kills himself to join her. As for the youngest brother, Death never manages to find him, as he stays hidden under his cloak. Many years later, the brother removes his cloak and gives it to his son. Pleased with his achievements, he greets Death as an old friend and chooses to leave together with him "as equals".ReceptionAs the book is yet to be published it has not been widely reviewed. However, Sotheby's deputy director Dr. Philip W. Errington described the handmade edition as "one of the most exciting pieces of children's literature" to have passed through the auction house. After buying the book, Amazon also released a review, describing it as "an artifact pulled straight out of a novel".NotesExternal linksAmazon.com: The Fairy Tales of J.K. Rowling[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vSxi06Od0vU The Tales of Beedle the Bard Auction] at YouTube[http://www.bbc.co.uk/mediaselector/check/player/nol/newsid_7070000/newsid_7072400?redirect=7072433.stm&amp;news=1&amp;bbwm=1&amp;nbwm=1&amp;nbram=1&amp;bbram=1&amp;asb=1 J.K. Rowling interview on The Tales of Beedle the Bard] by Razia Iqbal, BBC, on November 1, 2007.Preview of &quot;The Tales of Beedle the Bard&quot; on the ABC show Good Morning America, on November 26, 2007.Category:Harry Potter books Category:Fictional booksca:Les rondalles del bard Gallard cs:Bajky barda Beedleho de:Die Märchen von Beedle dem Barden el:Οι Ιστορίες του Μπιντλ του Βάρδου es:Los cuentos de Beedle el Bardo fr:Les Contes de Beedle le Barde it:Le fiabe di Beda il Bardo he:מעשיות בידל הפייטן lt:Bardo Bidlio poringės hu:Bogar bárd meséi ms:The Tales of Beedle the Bard nl:De Vertelsels van Baker de Bard pl:Baśnie barda Beedle'a pt:Anexo:Lista de livros fictícios citados na série Harry Potter ro:Poveştile bardului Beedle ru:Сказки барда Бидля sk:The Tales of Beedle the Bard fi:The Tales of Beedle the Bard th:นิทานของบีเดิลยอดกวี