A Network card, Network Adapter, LAN Adapter or NIC (network interface card) is a piece of computer hardware designed to allow computers to communicate over a computer network. It is both an OSI layer 1 (physical layer) and layer 2 (data link layer) device, as it provides physical access to a networking medium and provides a low-level addressing system through the use of MAC addresses. It allows users to connect to each other either by using cables or wirelessly.Although other network technologies exist, Ethernet has achieved near-ubiquity since the mid-1990s. Every Ethernet network card has a unique 48-bit serial number called a MAC address, which is stored in ROM carried on the card. Every computer on an Ethernet network must have a card with a unique MAC address. No two cards ever manufactured share the same address. This is accomplished by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), which is responsible for assigning unique MAC addresses to the vendors of network interface controllers.Whereas network cards used to be expansion cards that plug into a computer bus, the low cost and ubiquity of the Ethernet standard means that most newer computers have a network interface built into the motherboard. These either have Ethernet capabilities integrated into the motherboard chipset, or implemented via a low cost dedicated Ethernet chip, connected through the PCI (or the newer PCI express bus). A separate network card is not required unless multiple interfaces are needed or some other type of network is used. Newer motherboards may even have dual network (Ethernet) interfaces built-in.The card implements the electronic circuitry required to communicate using a specific physical layer and data link layer standard such as Ethernet or token ring. This provides a base for a full network protocol stack, allowing communication among small groups of computers on the same LAN and large-scale network communications through routable protocols, such as IP.There are four techniques used to transfer data, the NIC may use one or more of these techniques.Polling is where the microprocessor examines the status of the peripheral under program control.Programmed I/O is where the microprocessor alerts the designated peripheral by applying its address to the system's address bus.Interrupt-driven I/O is where the peripheral alerts the microprocessor that it's ready to transfer data.DMA is where the intelligent peripheral assumes control of the system bus to access memory directly. This removes load from the CPU but requires a separate processor on the card.A network card typically has a twisted pair, BNC, or AUI socket where the network cable is connected, and a few LEDs to inform the user of whether the network is active, and whether or not there is data being transmitted on it. Network Cards are typically available in 10/100/1000 Mbit/s varieties. This means they can support a transfer rate of 10, 100 or 1000 Megabits per second.Network interface controllerA Network Interface Controller (NIC) is a hardware interface that handles and allows a network capable device access to a computer network such as the internet. The NIC has a ROM chip that has a unique Media Access Control (MAC) Address burned into it. The MAC address identifies the vendor and the serial number of the NIC which is unique to the card. Every NIC has a unique MAC address which identifies it on the LAN. The NIC exists on both the 'Physical Layer' (Layer 1) and the 'Data Link Layer' (Layer 2) of the OSI model.Sometimes the word 'controller' and 'card' is used interchangeably when talking about networking because the most common NIC is the Network Interface Card. Although 'card' is more commonly used, it is in less encompassing. The 'controller' may take the form of a network card that is installed inside a computer, or it may refer to an embedded component as part of a computer motherboard, a router, expansion card, printer interface, or a USB device.A MAC Address is a unique 48 bit network hardware identifier that is burned into a ROM chip on the NIC to identify that device on the network. The first 24 bits is called the Organizationally Unique Identifier (OUI) and is largely manufacturer dependent. Each OUI allows for 16,777,216 Unique NIC Addresses.Smaller manufacturers that do not have a need for over 4096 unique NIC addresses may opt to purchase an Individual Address Block (IAB) instead. An IAB consists of the 24 bit OUI, plus a 12 bit extension (taken from the 'potential' NIC portion of the MAC address)See alsoMAC addressTCP Offload Engine (TOE)Host bus adapter (HBA)Wireless network interface card (WNIC)EthernetGigabit EthernetRouterIPMPReferencesCCNA Exam Prep: Data Link Networking ConceptsIEEE Registration Authority - IEEE OUI and Company_id AssignmentsIEEE Registration Authority - FAQCategory:Networking hardwarear:كرت الشبكة bs:Mrežna kartica br:Kartenn rouedad bg:Мрежова карта ca:Targeta de xarxa cs:Síťová karta da:Netkort de:Netzwerkkarte et:Võrgukaart es:Tarjeta de red eo:Retkarto eu:Sare-txartel fa:کارت شبکه fr:Carte réseau gl:Tarxeta de rede ko:네트워크 카드 hr:Mrežna kartica id:Kartu jaringan it:Scheda di rete he:כרטיס רשת kk:Желілік бейімдеуіш lv:Tīkla karte lb:Netzwierkkaart hu:Hálózati kártya ms:Kad rangkaian nl:Netwerkkaart ja:ネットワークカード no:Nettverkskort pl:Karta sieciowa pt:Placa de rede ro:Placă de reţea ru:Сетевая плата simple:Network card sk:Sieťová karta sr:Мрежни адаптер sh:Mrežna kartica fi:Verkkokortti sv:Nätverkskort vi:Cạc mạng zh:网卡