Bullet for My Valentine is an award-wining four-piece metalcore band from Bridgend, Wales. Originally known as "Jeff Killed John", the band formed in 1998 and covered songs by Metallica and Nirvana.http://www.sputnikmusic.com/bands.php?bandid=1258 Sputnik Financial difficulties marked a change in music direction and name for the band and so the band went through numerous name changes, such as "12 Pints of My Girlfriend's Blood" (which was changed after being decided as 'too graphic'), until deciding on "Bullet for My Valentine".http://www.roxwel.com/artists/artistpage/Bullet+For+My+Valentine.html Roxwel In 2002 the band was offered a record deal by Roadrunner Records. That offer was turned down, and the band later secured a five-album deal with Sony BMG.http://metalinjection.net/reviews/cd-review-bullet-for-my-valentine-scream-aim-fire metalinjectionBullet for My Valentine's debut album The Poison was released on October 3, 2005 in the United Kingdom and on Valentine's Day in America in 2006 to represent the name "Bullet for My Valentine", the album was dedicated to long time friend Simon Roy Denning. The album entered the Billboard 200 at number 128, and the Top Heatseekers chart at number 1, and has sold 375,000 copies in the U.S. as of February 6, 2008. The band made appearances at the Download Festival, Kerrang! XXV, and a United States tour with Rob Zombie, which the band were ultimately kicked off due to vocalist Matthew Tuck's comments on the band's message board. Bullet for My Valentine's second studio album Scream Aim Fire debuted at number 4 on the Billboard 200, with first-week sales of 53,000 copies.Biography"Jeff Killed John" was the forerunner band for BFMV and was formed in 1998 by Matthew Tuck (guitar and vocals), Michael Paget (guitar), Nick Crandle (bass guitar), and Michael "Moose" Thomas (drums), while studying music at Bridgend College. Playing Nirvana and Metallica covers, the band released a two-track CD in 2002 produced by Greg Haver, and was called You/Play With Me. It was financed through the Pynci scheme for new Welsh musicians and the release garnered the band radio airplay on live Radio 1's broadcast at Newport's T.J.'s.Jeff Killed John members wanted to follow the nu metal trend set by bands such as Korn and Limp Bizkit — playing what they thought would get them far and what record labels wanted to hear. Bassist Crandle left the band on the eve of entering the recording studio and was replaced by Jason "Jay" James. As nu metal had started to become less popular, the band gave it one final shot by changing their name to Bullet for My Valentine, a name which refers to the "loving lyrical content". A change in music direction was agreed on, and the band played what they wanted to rather than follow the influential bands at the time.arue was hereRecord label signingFor six-to-ten months, Bullet for My Valentine played at concerts to attract the interest of record labels. At a show in London, Roadrunner Records showed interest and offered the band a deal. The label was ultimately turned down, and the band signed a five record deal with Sony BMG, and a United Kingdom licensing deal with Visible Noise. The choice to choose Sony as said by frontman Tuck was "We thought that a lot more doors would be open to us with the Sony deal". Unfortunately, Matt Tuck is going in for another throat operation as he lost the will too sing after a gig in america. He will not be singing for the rest of the tour but he will have a stand in which is Steven Juliano (The lead singer from "I Am Ghost"). A self-titled EP was released on November 15, 2004 in the U.K., and November 30, 2004 in the United States. Produced by Colin Richardson and mixed by Andy Sneap, the EP featured five tracks and marked the band's first official release. A second EP, titled Hand of Blood was released on August 22, 2005 through Trustkill Records, and was only available in the United States. The EP contained one extra track than the self-titled EP, "4 Words (To Choke Upon)". Decibel Magazine contributor Daniel Lukes responded to the EP negatively stating "The worst part is that the music itself isn’t all that bad, for the genre. 'Cries In Vain' even threatens to kick some major butt before drowning in vocal sub-Incubusisms"; commenting the band should be embarrassed about the release. Zeromag.com editor Josh Joyce complimented the band on "how technical they can get without confusing the kids".''The Poison''Bullet for My Valentine's debut album, The Poison, was released in the U.K. on October 3, 2005 and February 14, 2006 in the U.S. It entered the Billboard 200 at number 128, attained a peak of number 2 on the Top Heatseekers, and number 11 on the Top Independent albums. As of February 6, 2008, the album has sold 375,000 copies in the U.S.    Critical response to the album was mixed. Stylus Magazine editor Dom Passantino commented the band's contribution to the world of music is "basically a slightly uglier, yet similarly polished take on their genre than Lostprophets", awarding a C- grade. Blabbermouth.net reviewer Scott Alisoglu stated Bullet for My Valentine "is fairly good at what it does and at least half of the songs are better than average", although commented that the album "follows with several 'hey, it's predictable, but pretty rocking' moments". Decibel Magazine contributor Kirk Miller commented "There’s zero in the originality department here", although praised the band's synchronised song structures compared to other bands.Four singles were released from The Poison including "4 Words (To Choke Upon)", the band's first single, followed by "Suffocating Under Words of Sorrow (What Can I Do)". "All These Things I Hate (Revolve Around Me)" peaked on the Hot Mainstream Rock Tracks at number 13 and number 30 on the Modern Rock Tracks. "Tears Don't Fall" peaked at number 24 on the Hot Mainstream Rock Tracks and number 32 on the Modern Rock Tracks.Bullet for My Valentine played at the Download Festival in Donington Park for three consecutive years, first appearing at the 2004 festival on the Barfly stage. The following year with increased popularity, Bullet for My Valentine played on the larger Snickers stage, and in 2006 the band were moved to near the top of the main stage bill, playing on Sunday night below Guns N' Roses and Funeral for a Friend. Other tours the band embarked on included opening for Metallica and Guns N' Roses for six weeks of the summer in 2006, the Vans Warped Tour, Kerrang! tour, and Earthday Birthday on April 28, 2007. The band's performance at the Brixton Academy in London was filmed for the band's first DVD, The Poison: Live at Brixton.  Bullet for My Valentine were removed as a supporting act on a 2006 tour with Rob Zombie after 17 shows. Tuck posted a message on the band's official message board, stating the band were not being treated well on the tour in response to fans who complained about t-shirt prices and sound quality.Sirius Satellite Radio's Hard Attack interview with Matt Tuck and Michael Thomas. June 7, 2006 Zombie made the band price match his merchandise ($40 a shirt), and were only allowed two pieces. Because the band was unable to use a dressing room, could not perform a sound check, Tuck referred to the headliner as "money-grabbing jerks" and "does not want to be associated with that old man". Tuck commented "Basically, we are nothing to him, but screw it — if this is what it takes to get a name over here, then it's gotta be done". A few hours later, Tuck posted a message apologizing for his comments claiming they were "out of line and totally exaggerated". However, the band were kicked off the tour the following day for the comments. Vocalist of fellow support act Lacuna Coil, Andrea Ferro, attributed the behaviour due to inexperience; "Probably they got some different kind of success in the U.K. in the beginning and they think that they paid their dues, but I believe that they still have to pay their dues, like everybody".During June 2007, Tuck suffered from laryngitis which led to a number of shows being postponed until early January. A tonsillectomy was scheduled in mid July, although it was brought forward at the last minute at the advice of Tuck's doctor. Advised a minimum recovery period of four weeks, the band were forced to cancel several shows. This included supporting Metallica for three dates on their Sick of the Studio '07 tour on June 29 in Bilbao, Spain, July 5 in Vienna, Austria, and July 8 at the recently completed Wembley Stadium in London. Machine Head replaced the band as supporting act. Although unable to speak, Tuck wrote that as soon as doctors cleared him he would be in the studio working on the band's next album.=== Scream Aim Fire === Bullet for My Valentine's second studio album, entitled Scream Aim Fire, was recorded at Sonic Ranch Studios with production duties handled by Colin Richardson. The album was released on January 28, 2008 and January 29 in the US.&lt;/ref&gt; Tuck commented; "The biggest difference is probably the tempo and the aggression. It's a lot more uptempo, a lot more aggressive". The album entered the Billboard 200 at number 4 with 53,000 copies sold in its first week. The band has finished touring North America and Australia for the 2008 Taste of Chaos tour with the bands Atreyu, Idiot Pilot, Blessthefall and Avenged Sevenfold - who, due to illness, replaced lead singer Shadows with Bullet's long time roadie - Carl Rigby. They also performed at Rock am Ring and Rock im Park and the Download Festival in June 2008. They also played the Reading & Leeds festivals in August 2008. Their new single "Waking The Demon" has now hit U.S. radio airways.It was announced on April 14, 2008 that the band would cut short their Canada tour in order to fly back home in support of bassist Jason 'Jay' James whose daughter has been hospitalized. They are currently on tour as part of the No Fear Music Tour across North America with Bleeding Through, Cancer Bats and Black Tide.In November and December, the band will tour Europe with main support Lacuna Coil, with Bleeding Through and Black Tide also supporting.It's also been announced that they will be playing at Big Day Out in Australia and New Zealand early next year in January and February.Style and influencesBullet for My Valentine have cited being influenced by bands such as Metallica, Annihilator, Pantera, Machine Head, Iron Maiden, Testament, Slayer, Stuck Mojo, Judas Priest and Megadeth. These bands inspire Bullet for My Valentine's "catchy vocals, aggressive riffs and melodies." Reviewing The Poison, Scott Alisoglu of Blabbermouth.net described the band's sound as "predictable" and the album as a "made-for-MTV breakout hit," comparing the harmonies to Swedish metal band In Flames. However, Alisoglu praised songs such as "Tears Don't Fall" for incorporating "twin lead work, thrashy romps, galloping tempos, and a hot solo."  Members of the band have stated they would not change their sound or image for a commercial approach. Tuck commented that, "Without sounding harsh, we're more interested in what our music sounds like than what our fucking hair looks like." Kirk Miller of Decibel magazine praised the band for the effort in synchronised song structures.Awards Bullet for My Valentine have received three awards from Kerrang!, 'Best UK single' for their track Tears Don't Fall in 2006, and 'Best British Newcomer' in 2005 and also 'Best British Band' in 2008. As a result the band headlined Kerrang!'s 25 year anniversary tour of the U.K. The band recorded a cover song for the magazine, Metallica's "Creeping Death", which is featured on the magazine's Higher Voltage compilation disk. Another Metallica cover, "Welcome Home (Sanitarium)", was featured on Metallica" Remastered.The band won the Welsh Music Award for "Best Newcomer" in 2004, and according to The Sun, were 'booed' when receiving the 2006 Metal Hammer Golden God Award award for 'Best British Band'. Bullet for My Valentine has received coverage in music magazines including being featured on the covers of Metal Hammer, Guitar World, Total Guitar and Kerrang, and stories in Revolver, Outburn, Penthouse, Rock Sound, NME, Hit Parader, Guitar One, Drummer Magazine and Alternative Press.MembersCurrent membersMatthew Tuck – Lead vocals, Rhythm guitar (1998&ndash;present)Michael "Padge" Paget – Lead guitar, backing vocals (1998&ndash;present)Jason "Jay" James – Bass guitar, vocals (2003&ndash;present)Michael "Moose" Thomas – drums, percussion (1998&ndash;present)Former membersNick Crandle – Bass guitar (1998&ndash;2003)Stephen Sally - drums  (2000&ndash;2003 DiscographyAlbums2005: The Poison #128 U.S. #1 U.K2008: Scream Aim Fire #4 U.S. #5 U.K. #4 AUS. #10 IRE.EPs2001: Don't Walk Away2002: You/Play with Me2004: Bullet for My Valentine2005: Hand of Blood2006: Hand of Blood EP: Live at BrixtonDVDsThe Poison: Live at BrixtonSinglesYearSingleChart positionsAlbumUK Singles ChartUK Rock ChartIrish Singles Charthttp://acharts.us/song/7744U.S. Modern RockU.S. Mainstream RockEuropean Hot 1002005"4 Words (To Choke Upon)"40&ndash;&ndash;&ndash;&ndash;&ndash;The Poison"Suffocating Under Words of Sorrow (What Can I Do)"37&ndash;&ndash;&ndash;&ndash;&ndash;2006"All These Things I Hate (Revolve Around Me)"29&ndash;38301365Tears Don't Fall]]"37&ndash;&ndash;3224802007Scream Aim Fire]]"341&ndash;261671Scream Aim Fire2008"Hearts Burst Into Fire"661&ndash;&ndash;23&ndash;"Waking the Demon"&ndash;&ndash;&ndash;&ndash;39&ndash;References== External links == 