 | birthplace = Southern California, United States | occupation = Novelist | genre = Young adult literatureHigh Fantasy | notableworks = The Inheritance Cycle | influences = See below | website = http://alagaesia.com Christopher Paolini (born November 17, 1983 in Southern California) is an American writer. He is best known as the author of the Inheritance cycle, which consists of the books Eragon, Eldest, Brisingr, and the untitled fourth book. He lives in Paradise Valley, Montana, where he wrote his first book.BiographyChristopher Paolini was raised in the Paradise Valley, Montana area. His family members include his parents, Kenneth Paolini and Talita Hodgkinson, and his sister, Angela Paolini.The Author. Alagaesia.com. Accessed 2007-10-30. Home schooled for the duration of his education, Paolini graduated from high school at the age of 15 through a set of accredited correspondence courses from American School of Correspondence in Lansing, Illinois. Following graduation, he started his work on what would become the novel Eragon and its sequel Eldest, both set in the kingdom of Alagaësia.In 2002, Eragon was published by Paolini International LLC, Paolini's parents' company. To promote the book, Paolini toured over 135 schools and libraries, discussing reading and writing, all the while dressed in "a medieval costume of red shirt, billowy black pants, lace-up boots, and a jaunty black cap." Paolini created the cover art for the first edition of Eragon, which featured Saphira's eye. He also drew the maps on the inside covers of his books.Paolini, C., Eragon, Paolini International LLC, 2002.In Summer 2002, the stepson of author Carl Hiaasen found Eragon in a bookstore and loved it, and Hiaasen brought it to the attention of his publisher, Alfred A. Knopf.David Welch (September 29, 2005). A Kinder, Gentler Carl Hiaasen, Still Pissing People Off Powells.com. Accessed 2008-01-20. Knopf subsequently made an offer to publish Eragon and the rest of the Inheritance cycle. The second edition of Eragon was published by Knopf in August 2003. At the age of nineteen, Paolini became a New York Times bestselling author.Liz Rosenberg (November 16, 2003). 'Eragon': The Egg and Him. NYTimes.com. Accessed 2007-10-30. Eragon has since been adapted into a film of the same name.Paolini's essay "It All Began with Books" was included in the April 2005 anthology Guys Write for Guys Read.Eldest, the sequel to Eragon, was released August 23, 2005. The third book in the cycle, Brisingr, was released on September 20, 2008.Press release (January 16, 2008). Random House Accessed 2008-01-16. Although the Inheritance cycle was planned as a trilogy, the details for Brisingr had to be expanded to include a fourth book.Press release (October 30, 2007). Random House Accessed 2007-10-30.InfluencesPaolini's literary inspirations include the works of J.R.R. Tolkien, E. R. Eddison and the epic poem Beowulf. Paolini said that Eragon was "specifically inspired" by the work of Bruce Coville. Other literary influences include David Eddings, Andre Norton, Brian Jacques, Anne McCaffrey, Raymond E. Feist, Mervyn Peake, Ursula K. Le Guin, and Frank Herbert.Talita Paolini Christopher Paolini Q&amp;A Shurtugal.com. Accessed 2008-01-20. Other favorite authors include Jane Yolen, Philip Pullman, and Garth Nix.Nature influences much of Paolini's writing. In a three-way interview with Philip Pullman and Tamora Pierce, Paolini said that Paradise Valley, Montana is "one of the main sources" of his inspiration.Dave Welch (October 2003). News: Philip Pullman, Tamora Pierce, and Christopher Paolini Talk Fantasy Fiction Alagaesia.com. Accessed 2008-01-20.In the book Eldest, Paolini described his elves as atheist and vegetarians. When asked about his own diet, Paolini answered, "No, I am not vegetarian, although I lean in that direction."Christopher Paolini. Talking Trilogy Alagaesia.com. Accessed 2008-01-20.In the acknowledgments of Brisingr, Paolini acknowledged the influence of Leon and Hiroko Kapp's The Craft of the Japanese Sword for his description of the forging of Eragon's sword. Additionally, Paolini admitted he is a Doctor Who fan, which inspired his reference to the "lonely god" (the epithet given to the Doctor by the Face of Boe in series 2, episode 1, "New Earth").NotesExternal linksOfficial website, which includes autobiographical comments from PaoliniChristopher Paolini's complete bibliographyThe Official Australian Brisingr website[http://www.randomhouse.com/kids/catalog/display.pperl?isbn=9780375890369 Eragon summary], from Random HouseShur'tugal - one of the biggest fan-sitesChristopher Paolini on Fantasy FanChristopher Paolini at Random House AustraliaChristopher Paolini at House of Legends Category:1983 births Category:Living people Category:American children's writers Category:American fantasy writers Category:California writers Category:Inheritance cycle Category:Italian-Americans Category:Montana writers Category:Writers of young adult literature Category:American child writersals:Christopher Paolini bg:Кристофър Паолини ca:Christopher Paolini cs:Christopher Paolini da:Christopher Paolini de:Christopher Paolini et:Christopher Paolini es:Christopher Paolini eo:Christopher Paolini fr:Christopher Paolini hr:Christopher Paolini it:Christopher Paolini he:כריסטופר פאוליני la:Christophorus Paolini lt:Christopher Paolini nl:Christopher Paolini ja:クリストファー・パオリーニ no:Christopher Paolini pl:Christopher Paolini pt:Christopher Paolini ru:Паолини, Кристофер sq:Christopher Paolini simple:Christopher Paolini sk:Christopher Paolini sl:Christopher Paolini fi:Christopher Paolini sv:Christopher Paolini zh:克里斯托弗·鲍里尼