For the Wikipedia guideline regarding editing articles, see Wikipedia:Manual of Style.contains five or more sentences in passages. Prose is writing that resembles everyday speech. The word "prose" is derived from the Latin prosa, which literally translates to "straightforward". Prose is an unpretentious form of writing; it is adopted for the discussion of facts and topical news. Prose is often articulated in free form writing style. Thus, it may be used for books, newspapers, magazines, encyclopedias, broadcast media, films, letters, history, philosophy, biography, linguistic geography, and many other forms of communication.Prose generally lacks the formal structure of meter or rhyme that is often found in poetry. Although some works of prose may happen to contain traces of metrical structure or versification, a conscious blend of the two forms of literature is known as a prose poem. Similarly, poetry with less of the common rules and limitations of verse is known as free verse. Poetry is considered to be artificially developed ("The best words in the best order"), whereas prose is thought to be less constructed and more reflective of ordinary speech. Pierre de Ronsard, the French poet, said that his training as a poet had proved to him that prose and poetry were mortal enemies. In Molière's play Le Bourgeois Gentilhomme, Monsieur Jourdain asks something to be written in neither verse nor prose. A philosophy master says to him, "Sir, there is no other way to express oneself than with prose or verse". Jourdain replies, "By my faith! For more than forty years I have been speaking prose without knowing anything about it, and I am much obliged to you for having taught me that."StylesProse varies considerably depending on the purpose of the writing. As prose is often considered to be representative of the patterns of normal speech , many rhetorical devices are used in prose to emphasize points and enliven the writing. Prose aims to be informative and accurate, such as history or journalism, usually striving to use the simplest language possible to express its points. Facts are often repeated and reiterated in various ways so that they are understood by a reader, but excessive use of this technique can make a serious piece of writing seem pedantic.In fiction, prose can take on many forms. Skilled authors can alter how they use prose throughout a book to suggest different moods and ideas. A thriller often consists of short, "punchy" sentences made up of equally short words, suggesting very rapid actions to heighten the effect of a very fast-moving plot. Conversely, longer sentences can be used to slow down the action of a novel.Also, it can be expressed in a combination of prose and poetry in a style called prosetry. A good example of this is in Elie Weisel's book Night.==Speech/Debate== The event 'Prose' in Speech/Debate is in which one person reads a selection from a published book, play, etc., and interprets the piece for the judging audience.See alsoList of basic literary topicsRhymed proseCategory:Literature Category:Methods of writingar:نثر bs:Proza br:Komz-plaen ca:Prosa cv:Проза ceb:Prosa cs:Próza cy:Rhyddiaith da:Prosa (skriveform) de:Prosa es:Prosa et:Proosa eo:Prozo fa:نثر fr:Prose ko:산문 hi:गद्य id:Prosa is:Óbundið mál it:Prosa he:סיפורת jv:Gancaran ka:პროზა ky:Проза (кара сөз) sw:Nathari la:Prosa lv:Proza lb:Prosa lt:Proza hu:Próza mk:Проза nl:Proza ja:散文 no:Prosa nn:Prosa pl:Proza pt:Prosa ro:Proză ru:Проза simple:Prose sk:Próza sr:Проза sh:Proza fi:Proosa sv:Prosa ta:உரைநடை tr:Nesir uk:Проза wa:Prôze yi:פראזע (ליטעראטור) zh-yue:散文 zh:散文