 | architect = Herzog &amp; de Meuron | structural engineer = Arup, China Architectural Design & Research Group | services engineer = | general_contractor = | project_manager = | main_contractors = | former_names = | tenants = 2008 Summer Olympics | capacity = 80,00091,000 (2008 Olympics) | dimensions = | scoreboard = Beijing National Stadium (), also known as the National Stadium (国家体育场), or colloquially as the "Bird's Nest" (鸟巢), is a stadium in Beijing, China. The stadium was designed for use throughout the 2008 Summer Olympics and Paralympics.Located in the Olympic Green, the US$423 million stadium is the world's largest steel structure. The design was awarded to a submission from the Swiss architecture firm Herzog &amp; de Meuron in April 2003, after a bidding process that included 13 final submissions. The design, which originated from the study of Chinese ceramics, implemented steel beams in order to hide supports for the retractable roof; giving the stadium the appearance of a "Bird's nest". Ironically, the retractable roof was later removed from the design after inspiring the stadium's most recognizable aspect. Ground was broken in December 2003 and the stadium officially opened in June 2008. A shopping mall and a hotel are planned to be constructed to increase use of the stadium, which will host football events after the Olympics.BiddingIn 2001, after Beijing had been awarded the right to host the 2008 Summer Olympics, the city held a bidding process to select the best arena design. Multiple requirements including the ability for post-Olympics use, a retractable roof, and low maintenance costs, were required of each design. The entry list was narrowed to thirteen final designs. Of the final thirteen, Li Xinggang of China Architecture Design and Research Group (CADG), said after he placed the model of the "nest" proposal at the exhibition hall and saw the rival entries he thought to himself, "We will win this." The model was approved by as the top design by a professional panel; however, it was later exhibited for the public. Once again, it was selected as the top design. The "nest scheme" design became official in April 2003. At $423 million, the stadium was built for one-tenth the cost that it would have cost to be built in the West.Design and construction  Beijing National Stadium was a joint venture among architects Jacques Herzog and Pierre de Meuron of Herzog &amp; de Meuron, project architect Stefan Marbach, artist Ai Weiwei, and CADG which was lead by chief architect Li Xinggang. During their first meeting in 2003, at Basel, the group decided to do something unlike Herzog and de Meuron had traditionally designed. "China wanted to have something new for this very important stadium," Li stated. In an effort to design a stadium that was "porous" while also being "a collective building, a public vessel", the team studied Chinese ceramics. This line of thought brought the team to the "nest scheme". The stadium consists of two independent structures, standing 50 feet apart: a red concrete seating bowl and the outer steel frame around it.In an attempt to hide steel supports for the retractable roof, required in the bidding process, the team developed the "seemingly random additional steel" to blend the supports into the rest of the stadium. Twenty-four trussed columns encase the inner bowl, each one weighing 1,000 tons. Despite random appearance, each half of the stadium is nearly identical. After a collapse of a roof at the Charles de Gaulle International Airport, Beijing reviewed all major projects. It was decided to eliminate the retractable roof, the original inspiration for the "nest" design, as well as 9,000 seats from the design. The removal of the elements helped to bring the project under the reduced construction budget of $290 million, from an original $500 million. With the removal of the retractable roof, the building was lightened, which helped it stand up to seismic activity; however, the upper section of the roof was altered to protect fans from weather. Due to the stadium's outward appearance, it was nicknamed "The Bird's Nest". The phrase was first used by Herzog & de Meuron, though the pair still believes "there should be many ways of perceiving a building." The use is a compliment Li explained, "In China, a bird's nest is very expensive, something you eat on special occasions."Ground was broken, at the Olympic Green, for Beijing National Stadium on 24 December 2003. At its height, 17,000 construction workers worked on the stadium. In January 2008, The Times reported that 10 workers had died throughout construction; despite denial from the Chinese government. However, in a story the following week, Reuters, with the support of the Chinese government, reported that only two workers had died. All 110,000 tons of steel were made in China, making the stadium the largest steel structure in the world. On 14 May 2008, the grass field of 7,811 square meters was laid in 24 hours. Beijing National Stadium officially opened at a ceremony on 28 June 2008.Features and events]]  The eastern and western stands of Beijing National Stadium are higher than northern and southern stands, in order to improve sightlines. A 24-hour per day rainwater collector is located near the stadium; after water is purified, it is used throughout and around the stadium. Pipes placed under the playing surface gather heat in the winter to warm the stadium and coldness in the summer to cool the stadium. The stadium's design originally called for a capacity of 100,000 people; however 9,000 were removed during a simplification of the design. The new total of 91,000 would be shaved further when 11,000 temporary seats were removed after the 2008 Olympics; bringing the stadium's capacity to 80,000. The farthest seat is 460 feet (140 metres) from center field. Temperature and airflow of every surface were optimized to increase ventilation.Beijing National Stadium hosted the Opening and Closing Ceremonies, athletic events, and football final of the 2008 Summer Olympics, from 8 August to 24 August 2008. The stadium also hosted the Opening and Closing ceremonies and athletic events of the 2008 Summer Paralympics from 6 September to 17 September 2008. Though designed for track &amp; field events of the Olympics, the stadium will continue to host sporting events, such as football, afterwards. A shopping mall and a hotel, with rooms overlooking the field, are planned to help increase use after the Olympics. Li stated, "This will become the most important public space in Beijing."ReferencesExternal linksOfficial sitewww.beijingbirdnest.com   Category:Lattice shell structures Category:Olympic stadiums Category:Sports venues in Beijing Category:2008 Summer Olympics Category:National stadiums Category:Venues of the 2008 Summer Olympicsaf:Beijing Nasionale Stadion ar:ملعب بكين الوطني bn:বেইজিং ন্যাশনাল স্টেডিয়াম bs:Nacionalni stadion u Pekingu bg:Пекински национален стадион ca:Estadi Nacional de Pequín cs:Pekingský národní stadion da:Beijing Nationalstadion de:Nationalstadion Peking et:Pekingi Rahvusstaadion el:Εθνικό Στάδιο του Πεκίνου es:Estadio Nacional de Pekín eo:Nacia stadiono de Pekino eu:Beijingo Nazio Estadioa fa:ورزشگاه ملی پکن fr:Stade national de Pékin gl:Estadio Nacional de Beijing ko:베이징 국가체육장 hr:Nacionalni stadion u Pekingu id:Stadion Nasional Beijing it:Stadio nazionale di Pechino he:האצטדיון הלאומי בייג'ינג ka:პეკინის ეროვნული სტადიონი lv:Pekinas Nacionālais stadions lb:Nationalstadion vu Peking hu:Pekingi Nemzeti Stadion ml:ബെയ്‌ജിംഗ്‌ നാഷനല്‍ സ്റ്റേഡിയം mt:Stadju Nazzjonali ta' Bejġing mr:बीजिंग नॅशनल स्टेडियम ms:Stadium Nasional Beijing nl:Nationale Stadion van Peking ja:北京国家体育場 no:Beijing nasjonale stadion pl:Stadion Narodowy w Pekinie pt:Estádio Nacional de Pequim ro:Stadionul Naţional din Beijing ru:Пекинский национальный стадион sk:Pekinský národný štadión sr:Национални стадион у Пекингу fi:Pekingin kansallinen stadion sv:Pekings Nationalstadion tl:Pambansang Istadyum ng Beijing th:สนามกีฬาแห่งชาติปักกิ่ง vi:Sân vận động quốc gia Bắc Kinh tr:Pekin Ulusal Stadyumu zh-yue:北京國家體育場 zh:国家体育场