, painted by Cesare Vecellio]] The lictor, derived from the Latin ligare (to bind), was a member of a special class of Roman civil servant, with special tasks of attending and guarding magistrates of the Roman Republic and Empire who held imperium; essentially, a bodyguard. The origin of the tradition of lictors goes back to the time when Rome was a kingdom, perhaps acquired from their Etruscan neighbours.EligibilityOriginally, lictors were chosen from the plebs but through most part of the Roman history they seemed to be freedmen. They were, however, definitely Roman citizens, since they wore togae inside Rome. A lictor had to be a strongly built man, capable of physical work. Lictors were exempted from military service, received a fixed salary (of 600 sesterces, in the beginning of the Empire), and were organized in a corporation. Usually, they were personally chosen by the magistrate they were supposed to serve, but it is also possible that they were drawn by lots.Lictors were associated with Comitia Curiata and probably originally one was selected from each curia, since originally there were 30 curiae and 30 lictors (24 for two consuls and 6 for the sole praetor)Lictor's tasksThe lictor's main task was to attend as bodyguards to magistrates who held imperium. They carried rods decorated with fasces and, outside the pomerium, with axes that symbolized the power to execute. Dictatorial lictors had axes even within the Pomerium. They followed the magistrate wherever he went, including the Forum, his house, temples and the baths. Lictors were organized in an ordered line before him, with the primus lictor (the principal lictor) right on his front, waiting for orders. If there was a crowd, the lictors opened the way and kept their master safe, pushing all aside except for Roman matrons, who were accorded special honor. They also had to stand beside the magistrate whenever he addressed the crowd. Magistrates could only dispense with their lictors if they were visiting a free city or addressing a higher status magistrate. Lictors also had legal and penal duties: they could at their master's command arrest Roman citizens and punish them. A Vestal Virgin was accorded a lictor when her presence was required at a public ceremony.The degree of magistrate's imperium was symbolised by the number of lictors escorting him:Dictator: 24 lictors outside the pomerium, 12 inside. The latter rule was ignored starting from the dictatorship of SullaConsul: 12 lictorsProconsul: 11 lictorsMaster of the Horse: 6 lictorsPraetor: 6 lictors, 2 within PomeriumPropraetor: 5 lictorsCurule aediles: 2 lictorsSometimes, lictors were ascribed to private citizens in special occasions, like funerals or political reunions, as a show of respect by the city.''Lictor curiatus''The lictor curiatus (plural lictores curiati) was a special kind of lictor, who did not carry rods or fasces and whose main tasks were religious. Some thirty in number, they were at the command of the Pontifex Maximus, the high priest of Rome. They were present at sacrifices, where they carried or guided sacrificial animals to the altars. Vestal Virgins, as well as flamines (priests), were entitled to be escorted and protected by one lictor curiatus. In the Empire, women of the royal family were usually followed by two of this kind of lictor. The lictores curiati were also responsible for summoning the Comitia Curiata (the Public Assembly) and to maintain order during its procedures.See alsocursus honorumfascesimperiumExternal linksLivius.org: LictorCategory:Ancient Roman titlesbg:Ликтор ca:Lictor da:Liktor de:Liktor es:Lictor fr:Licteur it:Littore he:ליקטור ja:リクトル ka:ლიქტორი la:Lictor hu:Lictor nl:Lictor no:Liktor pl:Liktor pt:Lictor ru:Ликтор fi:Liktori sv:Liktor zh:刀斧手