"Karl I" redirects here. For the prince of Liechtenstein, see Karl I of Liechtenstein. | place of death =Madeira | date of burial = | place of burial = Igreja Nossa Senhora do Monte, Madeira, Muri Abbey, Switzerland (heart) |Charles I (Karl Franz Josef Ludwig Hubert Georg Maria von Habsburg-Lothringen) (English: Charles Francis Joseph Louis Hubert George Mary of Habsburg-Lothringen) (17 August 1887 &ndash; 1 April 1922) (Hungarian: IV. Károly (Károly Ferenc József)) was (among other titles) the last Emperor of Austria, the last King of Bohemia as Charles III., Hungary and Croatia and Slavonia, and the last monarch of the Habsburg dynasty. He reigned as Charles I as Emperor of Austria and Charles IV as King of Hungary from 1916 until 1918, when he "renounced participation" in state affairs, but did not abdicate. He spent the remaining years of his life attempting to restore the monarchy until his death in 1922. Following his beatification, he has become commonly known as Blessed Charles.LifeEarly lifeCharles was born on August 17 1887, in the Castle of Persenbeug in Lower Austria. He was the son of Archduke Otto Franz of Austria (1865&ndash;1906) and Princess Maria Josepha of Saxony (1867&ndash;1944); he was also a nephew of Archduke Francis Ferdinand of Austria-Este. As a child, Charles was reared a devout Catholic. In 1911, Charles married Princess Zita of Parma.Charles became heir-presumptive with the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand, his uncle, in Sarajevo in 1914, the event which precipitated World War I. Charles' reign began in 1916, when his grand-uncle, Francis Joseph I died. Charles also became a Generalfeldmarschall in the Austro-Hungarian Army.ReignOn 2 December 1916, he took over the title of Supreme Commander to a whole army from Archduke Frederick. In 1917, Charles secretly entered into peace negotiations with France. Although his foreign minister, Ottokar Czernin, was only interested in negotiating a general peace which would include Germany as well, Charles himself, in negotiations with the French with his brother-in-law, Prince Sixtus of Bourbon-Parma, an officer in the Belgian army, as intermediary, went much further in suggesting his willingness to make a separate peace. When news of the overture leaked in April 1918, Charles denied involvement until the French prime minister Georges Clemenceau published letters signed by him. This led to Czernin's resignation, forcing Austria-Hungary into an even more dependent position with respect to its seemingly wronged German ally.The Austro-Hungarian Empire was wracked by inner turmoil in the final years of the war, with much tension between ethnic groups. As part of his Fourteen Points, US President Woodrow Wilson demanded that the Empire allow for autonomy and self-determination of its peoples. In response, Charles agreed to reconvene the Imperial parliament and allow for the creation of a confederation with each national group exercising self-governance. However, the ethnic groups fought for full autonomy as separate nations, as they were now determined to become independent from Vienna at the earliest possible moment.Foreign Minister Baron Istvan Burián asked for an armistice based on the Fourteen Points on October 14, and two days later Charles issued a proclamation that radically changed the nature of the Austrian state. The Poles were granted full independence with the purpose of joining their ethnic brethren in Russia and Germany in a Polish state. The rest of the Austrian lands were transformed into a federal union composed of four parts--German, Czech, South Slav and Ukrainian. Each of the four parts was to be governed by a federal council, and Trieste was to receive a special status. However, Secretary of State Robert Lansing replied four days later that the Allies were now committed to the causes of the Czechs, Slovaks and South Slavs. Therefore, autonomy for the nationalities was no longer enough. In fact, a Czechoslovak provisional government had joined the Allies on October 14, and the South Slav national council had opted to join Serbia in forming a large South Slav state.The Lansing note effectively ended any efforts to keep the Empire together. One by one, the nationalities proclaimed their independence; even before the note the national councils had been acting more like provisional governments. Charles' political future became uncertain. On October 31, Hungary officially ended the personal union between Austria and Hungary. Nothing remained of Charles' realm except the Danubian and Alpine provinces, and he was challenged even there by the German Austrian state council. His last prime minister, Heinrich Lammasch, advised him that it was fruitless to stay on.On November 11--the same day as the armistice ending the war--Charles issued a carefully worded proclamation in which he recognized the Austrian people's right to determine the form of the state and "relinquish(ed) every participation in the administration of the State." He also released his officials from their oath of loyalty to him. On November 13, he issued a similar proclamation for Hungary. Although it has widely been cited as an "abdication," that word was never mentioned in either proclamation. Kings and Queens of Hungary & Princes of Transylvania, by István Gombás published by Corvina, Budapest, 2002 (ISBN 963-13-5152-1)Charles deliberately avoided using the word "abdication" in hopes that the people of either Austria or Hungary would vote to recall him. Instead, the day after he issued his proclamation, German Austria proclaimed itself an independent republic. He then fled to Switzerland, escorted by Edward Lisle Strutt, and continued to pursue regaining power from exile. In 1919, the Austrian parliament passed a law which banished the Habsburgs from Austrian territory unless they renounced all intentions of reclaiming the throne and accepted the status of ordinary citizens.Encouraged by Hungarian nationalists, Charles sought twice in 1921 to reclaim the throne of Hungary, but failed largely because Hungary's regent, Miklós Horthy (the last admiral of the Austro-Hungarian Navy), refused to support him. Horthy's failure to support Charles' restoration attempts is often described as "treasonous" by monarchists. Critics suggest that Horthy's actions were more firmly grounded in political reality than the King of Hungary and his supporters. Indeed, the Allies had threatened to invade Hungary if Charles tried to regain the throne. Charles left Hungary from the city of Baja forever, and later in 1921 the Hungarian parliament formally dethroned the Habsburgs. (For a more detailed account of Charles' attempts to regain the throne, see Charles IV of Hungary's conflict with Miklós Horthy.)DeathCharles died of severe pneumonia (brought on after Charles, an already sickly man, walked into town on a freezing winter's day) on the Portuguese island of Madeira in 1922. His remains except for his heart are still kept on the island, in the Church of Our Lady of the Monte, in spite of several attempts to move them to the Habsburg Crypt in Vienna. His heart, and that of Empress Zita, repose in the Loreto Chapel of Muri Abbey. During his stay on the island, his personal chaplain was Priest Jorge de Faria e Castro.Charles' brief rule is considered by the Roman Catholic Church to have expressed Catholic social teaching, and he created a social legal framework which survives in part to this day. After his failed attempts to regain the Hungarian Crown, he and his Queen were first imprisoned and then exiled to Madeira, together with their children, where they lived in impoverished conditions until his death.Blessed Emperor Charles, Prince of Peace for a United Europe, a Roman Catholic pamphlet, Nihil Obstat: Archdiocese of Vienna, 6.7.2005, K1238/05.Post-mortemHistorians have been mixed in their evaluations of Charles and his reign. One of the most critical has been Helmut Rumpler, head of the Habsburg commission of the Austrian Academy of Sciences, who has described Charles as "a dilettante, far too weak for the challenges facing him, out of his depth, and not really a politician." However, others have seen Charles as a brave and honorable figure who tried as emperor-king to halt World War I. The English writer, Herbert Vivian, wrote: "Karl was a great leader, a prince of peace, who wanted to save the world from a year of war; a statesman with ideas to save his people from the complicated problems of his empire; a king who loved his people, a fearless man, a noble soul, distinguished, a saint from whose grave blessings come." Furthermore, Anatole France, the French novelist, stated: "Emperor Karl is the only decent man to come out of the war in a leadership position, yet he was a saint and no one listened to him. He sincerely wanted peace, and therefore was despised by the whole world. It was a wonderful chance that was lost."All of these various viewpoints give weight to the words of Pope Saint Pius X during an audience with a young Charles: "I bless Archduke Charles, who will be the future Emperor of Austria and will help lead his countries and peoples to great honor and many blessings--but this will not become obvious until after his death."BeatificationCharles has been solemnly declared blessed in the ceremony of beatification by the Roman Catholic Church. The Church has praised Charles for putting his Christian faith first in making political decisions, and for his perceived role as a peacemaker during the war, especially after 1917. During the Mass of Beatification on 3 October 2004, Pope John Paul II stated:  The decisive task of Christians consists in seeking, recognizing and following God's will in all things. The Christian statesman, Charles of Austria , confronted this challenge every day. To his eyes, war appeared as "something appalling". Amid the tumult of the First World War, he strove to promote the peace initiative of my Predecessor, Benedict XV. From the beginning, the Emperor Charles conceived of his office as a holy service to his people. His chief concern was to follow the Christian vocation to holiness also in his political actions. For this reason, his thoughts turned to social assistance. May he be an example for all of us, especially for those who have political responsibilities in Europe today!The cause or campaign began in 1949 when testimony of his holiness was collected in the Archdiocese of Vienna. In 1954, he was declared venerable, the first step on the process beatification. The League of Prayers established for the promotion of his cause has created a website. Christoph Cardinal Schönborn of Vienna has been the Church's sponsor for his beatification.Recent milestonesOn 14 April 2003, the Vatican's Congregation for the Causes of Saints in the presence of Pope John Paul II, promulgated Charles of Austria's "heroic virtues."On 21 December 2003, the Congregation certified, on the basis of three expert medical opinions, that a miracle in 1960 occurred through the intercession of Charles. The miracle attributed to Charles was the scientifically-inexplicable healing of a Brazilian nun with debilitating varicose veins; she was able to get out of bed after she prayed for his beatification.On 3 October 2004, he was beatified by Pope John Paul II. The Pope also declared 21 October, the date of Charles' marriage in 1911 to Princess Zita, as Charles' feast day. The beatification has caused controversy because of the mistaken belief that Charles authorized the Austro-Hungarian Army's use of poison gas during World War I, when in fact he was the first, and only, world leader during the war who banned its use.On January 31, 2008, an ecclesiastic tribunal, after a 16&nbsp;month investigation formally recognized a second miracle attributed to Charles I (required for his Canonization as a Saint in the Catholic Church); in an uncommon twist, the Florida woman claiming the miracle cure is not Catholic but Baptist. GOODMAN, TANYA ChildrenNameBirthDeathNotesOtto]]'''November 20 1912Princess Regina of Saxe-Meiningen and Hildburghausen]] (b. January 6 1925) and has seven children.Adelheid]]'''January 3 1914October 2 1971Robert]]'''February 8 1915February 7 1996Princess Margherita of Savoy-Aosta]] (b. April 7 1930) and had five children.Felix]]'''May 31 1916married (1952) Princess Anna-Eugénie of Arenberg (b. July 5 1925 d. June 9 1997) and had seven children.Karl Ludwig]]'''March 10, 1918Ligne]] (b. May 6 1923) and had four children.Rudolf]]'''September 5 1919married (1953) Countess Xenia Tschernyschev-Besobrasoff (b. June 11 1929 d. September 20 1968) and had four children. Married (secondly) (1971) Princess Anna Gabriele of Wrede (b. September 11 1940) and has one child.Charlotte]]'''March 1 1921July 23 19895 October|1899|22 September d. July 6 1963).*Archduchess ElisabethMay 31 1922January 7 1993Liechtenstein]] (b. August 5 1916 d. April 17 1991) and had five children.Gallery Image:Karloath.jpg|King Charles taking his oath as part of the coronation ceremoniesBudapest, 30 December 1916 Image:Karlfamily.jpg|King Charles IV of Hungary, with Zita and Crown Prince Otto. Coronation portrait Budapest, 1916 Image:Tomb of blessed carl.JPG|Tomb of Charles I  Ancestors  See alsoOtto von Habsburg, Charles' oldest son and head of the Habsburg familyAustria-HungaryNotesExternal linksKarl von Habsburg-Lothringenhttp://72.18.130.10/~jidosxyr/index.html blessed Emperor Charles  |-     |-   |-   |-   |-  |-   |-   |-  |-    |-  |-    |-    |-   Category:1887 births Category:1922 deaths Category:Austrian Field Marshals Category:Austrian Roman Catholics Category:Beatified people Category:Bohemian monarchs Category:Kings of Croatia Category:Charles University alumni Category:Emperors of Austria Category:Field Marshals of Germany Category:House of Austria-Este Category:House of Habsburg-Lorraine Category:Hungarian monarchs Category:Hungarian Roman Catholics Category:Knights of the Golden Fleece Category:Recipients of the Military Order of Max Joseph Category:Knights of Malta Category:Roman Catholic monarchsbe-x-old:Карл І Габсбург bg:Карл I (Австро-Унгария) ca:Carles I d'Àustria i IV d'Hongria cs:Karel I. da:Karl 1. af Østrig de:Karl I. (Österreich-Ungarn) et:Karl I (Austria-Ungari) es:Carlos I de Austria y IV de Hungría eo:Karolo la 1-a (Aŭstrio) fr:Charles Ier d'Autriche hr:Karlo I. Austrijski it:Carlo I d'Austria-Ungheria lt:Karolis I hu:IV. Károly magyar király nl:Karel I van Oostenrijk ja:カール1世 (オーストリア皇帝) no:Karl I av Østerrike-Ungarn pl:Karol I Habsburg pt:Carlos I da Áustria ro:Carol I al Austriei ru:Карл I (император Австрии) sk:Karol I. (rakúsky cisár) sl:Karel I. Habsburško-Lotarinški sr:Карло I од Аустрије fi:Kaarle I (Itävalta) sv:Karl I av Österrike th:สมเด็จพระจักรพรรดิคาร์ลที่ 1 แห่งออสเตรีย vi:Karl I của Áo zh:卡爾一世 (奧匈帝國)