   Bandai Entertainment  Beez Entertainment   Madman Entertainment  Odex | network =  MBS, TBS, Animax | network_other =  Cartoon Network   YTV  ABS-CBN, Hero TV, Cartoon Network, Studio 23  Cartoon Network (Adult Swim)  Champ TV, Tooniverse  TV2   MediaCorp TV12 Central  TVB  China Television   Animax   AnimeCentral | first = October 5, 2002 | last = September 27, 2003 | episodes = 50 | episode_list = List of Mobile Suit Gundam SEED episodes    Kodansha | publisher_en =   Del Rey | publisher_other =  Ching Win | demographic = Shōnen | magazine = | first = February 17, 2003 | last = January 29, 2004 | volumes = 5  , shortened to 'Gundam SEED', is an anime television series and a manga series by Sunrise. It is a part of the ''Gundam franchise that started in 1979, but takes place in an alternate universe called the Cosmic Era. The series spanned 50 episodes, aired in Japan from October 52002 to September 272003 at 6:00 p.m. on the JNN TV stations TBS and MBS. The series won the Animage Anime Grand Prix prize in 2002. Gundam SEED's story continues in Mobile Suit Gundam SEED Destiny.Plot The series is the first set in the Cosmic Era. This series begins with the Bloody Valentine War between Earth and the colonies that is similar to the One Year War of the original Gundam series with certain traditional elements from Mobile Suit Gundam Wing and After War Gundam X such as the presence of five multicolored Gundam mobile suits and the threat of an apocalypse. On one side is the Earth Alliance, and on the opposite is the space colonies that form ZAFT (Zodiac Alliance of Freedom Treaty). Mankind is divided over human genetic engineering, with normal humans known as "Naturals" and the genetically altered humans known as "Coordinators". Like the original series, while ZAFT has a head start on mobile suit design, the Earth Alliance quickly catches up with its five prototype Gundams. With ZAFT having stolen four of the prototypes, young Coordinator Kira Yamato pilots the GAT-X105 Strike Gundam and is forced to fight his old friend Athrun Zala. Little do they know that there exist sinister forces working to bring about events that go far beyond their worst nightmares.Characters and cast Production Mobile Suit Gundam SEED is directed by Mitsuo Fukuda (Future GPX Cyber Formula and Gear Fighter Dendoh) with music by Toshihiko Sahashi.It is based on the original concept of Hajime Yatate and Yoshiyuki Tomino of their early work, Mobile Suit Gundam. For this kind of project, almost all entire staff of Sunrise, Inc. was involved, along with Victor Entertainment and Sony Music Entertainment, which they provided the original soundtracks and theme songs.Major singers in Japan's pop industry who's songs were used for the series was also given guest roles as characters who were in small episode arcs, whereas at the end they were killed. Takanori Nishikawa of T.M.Revolution who did the first opening song, contributed with the voice for the ZAFT pilot Miguel Aiman in the first episode.Vivian Hsu who sang the the second openings song "moment" with Kazumi Endo, contributed with the voice for Andrew Waltfeld's partner Aisha.ReleaseThe series first premiered in Japan on the terrestrial MBS and TBS networks, where it occupied the Saturday 6 pm timeslot replacing Ultraman Cosmos. Mobile Suit Gundam SEED aired between October 52002 and September 272003. The series was also streamed freely on the internet the following day for users subscribing to Nippon Telegraph and Telephone east and west services in Windows media or Real format. Nearing the completion of the Japanese airing, Bandai Entertainment licensed the series for North American distribution which they announced at Otakon 2003. The English adaptation was produced in association with The Ocean Group and the English-language dub was recorded at Ocean Studios in Vancouver, Canada. The series has been released on ten DVDs in uncut bilingual format between August 102004 to May 102005. A two part box set called the "Anime Legends Edition" was released on January 82008 and March 42008 each containing five DVDs.A five minute epilogue called "After Phase: In the Valley of Stars" was released on the thirteenth and final DVD of the Japanese release. It was not released on the North American DVD release, because it was not given to Bandai Entertainment by Sunrise; however, it was released on the final European DVD release.English broadcastUnited States On Saturday, April 172004, an edited version of the English dub premiered at 10:30 pm on Cartoon Network's Toonami block. On October 23, 2004, it was moved to 1:00 am on Saturdays starting with episode 27. The series finished its initial run on April 15 2005. It looped back and started over in this time slot, but was pulled half way through the second run, after being on the air for approximately a year and a half.The majority of the series was aired with a TV-Y7, apparently, at the insistence of Bandai who were desperately trying to push the new Gundam SEED toy line. However, since most retailers had stopped carrying the Gundam line due to over-saturation from the G Gundam series, this soon became a lost cause. Only the final episode was given the TV-PG-SV rating rather than the usual TV-Y7 rating.Things that were edited out on the Cartoon Network version include mature content (e.g. most references to the sexual relationship between Kira and Flay Allster — though the initial scene presenting this was left partially intact); scenes of intense combat violence (e.g. almost all shots of pilots, including main characters, in their cockpits before having their machines destroyed); cold-blooded or brutal murders that are non-mobile suit related (e.g. Siegel Clyne getting shot by ZAFT soldiers loyal to Patrick Zala); all references to the fact that the "Living CPUs" need to take performance enhancing drugs; and most notoriously, handguns being sloppily and inconsistently transformed into neon-colored lasers, dubbed "Disco Guns" by fans, for most of the show's run. Also, there was little to no use of the words "kill" or "die" in the middle of the series airing, with the phrase "taking his/her life" or some variant of the phrase in the place of either word.Since most of the series had been edited by Williams Street before broadcast, Cartoon Network changed very little in terms of content allowance. However, the airings of the final two episodes were left mostly unedited, with only a few elements being affected — namely the guns used by Muruta Azrael, Patrick Zala, and one of the ZAFT soldiers (which was given neon-colored lights in certain but not all of the image frames), airbrushing the naked Flay's body in the final episode to avoid showing her cleavage, reducing the amount of blood shown, editing the character's lines to remove either inappropriate language or controversial lines, and the removal or altering of flashbacks of graphic assassinations.CanadaThe Canadian version debuted on YTV's Bionix programming block on September 102004 at 9:30 pm, where it got a better reception and aired comparatively uncut. On September 2, 2006, YTV stopped broadcasting the show after airing the entire series three times through. Gundam SEED returned to the Bionix block on March 9, 2007 at 11:30 p.m., beginning its fourth run on YTV; the same evening Gundam SEED Destiny made its North American premiere on YTV. On June 2, 2007 at 11:00 p.m., Gundam SEED began its fifth run on YTV in Bionix's Saturday lineup. In September 2007, Gundam SEED was removed from YTV's schedule.PhilippinesOn Cartoon Network Philippines, the English dub version of Gundam SEED aired on Toonami and editing was also implemented, later it was aired on Adult Swim in its unedited version. The Filipino dub version aired on Hero channel, ABS-CBN and Studio 23 with no editing implemented.United KingdomOn January 52008, an unedited version of Gundam SEED premiered on AnimeCentral at 9:30 pm. As per the channel's usual scheduling episodes are shown daily with each episode screening three times, at 9:30 pm, 12:30 am and 3:30 am. A trailer for the series, featuring the original narration from the opening titles, began airing on December 192007 and has been repeated frequently both before and during the show's run. A second trailer, featuring an excerpt from the first episode's prologue, began airing after the show's debut, but without a caption identifying the show.ReceptionThe show has become one of the most popular of the Gundam series in Japan enjoying high television ratings and DVD sales. According to the analyst John Oppliger of AnimeNation, Gundam SEED became the first Gundam series which was widely successful not only among "Gundam fans and hardcore otaku" but also "mainstream, casual Japanese viewers". Gundam SEED is the eighth TV Feature Award winner at the Animation Kobe Awards in 2003, the third Grand Prix award winner at the Japanese Otaku Awards in 2003, the winner of the Tokyo International Anime Fair's animation of the year in 2004, Animage's 25th Anime Grand Prix award winner in 2002, and topped the charts in Newtype magazine reader poll. However, the show was not well received by older Japanese fans. Sunrise's president, Takayuki Yoshii, believes it was because Gundam SEED incorporated elements from popular live-action television dramas. Instead of focusing on the robot action, the show focused more on the characters.ControversyIn episode sixteen, the main protagonist, sixteen-year-old Kira Yamato, is seen putting on pants after getting out of a bed, where fifteen-year-old Flay Allster lies sleeping naked suggesting a sexual relationship. The Japanese Commission for Better Broadcasting reported that viewers filed complaints regarding the scene because the show was aired at 6 pm when children would be watching. Mecha Anime HQ's review called the scene daring and creative, because it marks the first time for a "Gundam hero" to ever have sex during the course of the series; it was also considered relevant to the plot. The scene was extended in the special edition.Theme music Opening themes:: Phase-01–13; Toonami broadcast: episodes 1–26, YTV broadcast: episodes 1–50Lyrics by: Akio InoueComposition and arrangement by: Daisuke AsakuraSong by: T.M.Revolution"Moment": Phase-14–26Lyrics by: Vivian or KazumaComposition and arrangement by: Akio DobashiSong by: Vivian or Kazuma"Believe": Phase-27–40Lyrics by: Saeko NishioComposition by: Yoshiki AoiArrangement by: Shinya SaitouSong by: Nami Tamaki"Realize": Phase-41–50Lyrics by: Bounce BackComposition by: Yasuo ŌtaniArrangement by: Hiroaki Arai, Yasuo ŌtaniSong by: Nami TamakiEnding themes:: Phase-01–26Lyrics by: Chiaki IshikawaComposition and arrangement by: Yuki KajiuraSong by: See-Saw"River": Phase-27–39Lyrics and composition by: Tatsuya IshiiArrangement by: Zentarou WatanabeSong by: Tatsuya Ishii"Find the Way": Phase-40–50Lyrics by: Mika NakashimaComposition by: Lori Fine (Coldfeet)Arrangement by: ShimakenSong by: Mika NakashimaInsert themes:: Phase-07–09, 14 and 20Lyrics by: Yuki KajiuraComposition and arrangement by: Toshihiko SahashiSong by: Lacus Clyne (CV: Rie Tanaka; Jillian Michaels in the English dub): Phase-24, 32 and 40Lyrics, composition and arrangement by: Yuki KajiuraSong by: FictionJunction Yuuka: Phase-26, 29, 35 and 47Lyrics by: Akio InoueComposition and arrangement by: Daisuke AsakuraSong by: T.M.Revolution: Phase-28Lyrics by: Chiaki IshikawaComposition and arrangement by: Yuki KajiuraSong by: See-Saw: Phase-36 and 41Lyrics, composition and arrangement by: Yuki KajiuraSong by: Lacus Clyne (CV: Rie Tanaka; Jillian Michaels in the English dubhttp://www.animenewsnetwork.com/encyclopedia/anime.php?id=883)&lt;/ref&gt;)"Find the Way": Phase-46Lyrics by: Mika NakashimaComposition by: Lori Fine (Coldfeet)Arrangement by: ShimakenSong by: Mika NakashimaAdaptations, spinoffs, and sequelsOn March 26, 2004, a five minute original video animation (OVA) titled "After Phase: In the Valley of Stars" was released on DVD in Japan. The OVA was an epilogue to Gundam SEED.A three-part compilation of the TV series has been released as Gundam SEED: Special Edition.An adaptation of the TV series, authored by Mizuho Takayama, was originally a supplement of Comic BomBom. This version comes with folding color posters of the mobile suits, and a bonus Gundam SEED Destiny episode 0 comic. The stories were eventually published into 2 volumes by Kodansha. The 2 volume version is available in Chinese, published by Rightman Publishing Ltd. in Hong Kong.The TV series was also turned into a series of novels by Riu Goto, published by Kadokawa Shoten.Also running with the TV series was a series of manga called Mobile Suit Gundam SEED Astray that told a side-story to the anime series. This proved popular enough to generate two more side-stories: Mobile Suit Gundam SEED Astray R and Mobile Suit Gundam SEED X Astray.The English manga, authored by Masatsugu Iwase, is published in North America by Del Rey Manga and in Singapore by Chuang Yi, while Mobile Suit Gundam SEED Astray is published in North America by TOKYOPOP.On July 6, 2004, the sequel to Mobile Suit Gundam SEED, Mobile Suit Gundam SEED Destiny, was announced after over a month of rumors. It started airing in Japan on October 9, 2004 on the network Mainichi Broadcasting System and ran until October 1, 2005.A third Gundam SEED production, Mobile Suit Gundam SEED C.E. 73: Stargazer, is an original net animation side-story to Gundam SEED Destiny, the first of three episodes began streaming on Bandai Channel on July 14, 2006, and a DVD containing all three episodes was released on November 24 2006 in Japan.On May 7, 2006, a new movie based in the Cosmic Era was announced by Sunrise.The first Gundam SEED &amp; Gundam SEED Destiny Fan Disc: Seed Supernova was released by Sunrise on 22 June 2007 and the second was released on 25 September 2007. Both discs contain bonus material and specials. http://www.xg-seed.net/supernova/index.html Some specials included, "World Wide Seed", http://www.xg-seed.net/supernova/dvd01.html which shows Gundam SEED and Gundam SEED Destiny in different languages including, English, French, Korean, etc.Theatrical film   While the plot has been written, production has not yet commenced on this unnamed theatrical entry of the Gundam SEED anime series. The project does not currently have a timeline date after its predecessor, Gundam SEED Destiny. It will be the first full-length film (not a compilation movie) within the Gundam metaseries since Mobile Suit Gundam F91 (1991).On May 6, 2006, this film was first announced at the Sony Music Anime Fes' 06 with a brief clip featuring the characters Shinn Asuka, Cagalli Yula Athha, Lacus Clyne, Kira Yamato, and Athrun Zala. After the Sony Music Anime Fes' 06, Sunrise announced the film on their website.In the March 2008 issue of Animage magazine, Chiaki Morosawa explained that a plot outline had been created but she had fallen ill due to cancer and required continuous treatment. The project has been placed on indefinite hiatus, with Morosawa asking that fans please continue to wait.Animage Magazine, March 2008 http://ayano919114.blog43.fc2.com/blog-entry-564.html PlotNo official or reputable unofficial information exists about the plot. Houko Kuwashima, voice actress of character Stella Loussier, has stated on her "SEED Club blog" that the character will somehow also have a role in the film. Lacus Clyne, Yzak Joule, and Dearka Elsman will return as members of the PLANT Supreme Council and Kira Yamato, Athrun Zala, Shinn Asuka, and Lunamaria Hawke will be part of the ZAFT military.Cast and crewDirector - Mitsuo FukudaOriginal creators - Hajime Yatate and Yoshiyuki TominoProduction - SunriseVideo gamesNote that this list only includes games with SEED and SEED Astray characters.For the ArcadeGundam Seed: Federation vs. Z.A.F.T. IIFor the Game Boy AdvanceGundam Seed: Battle AssaultGundam Seed DestinyMobile Suit Gundam Seed: Tomo to Kimi to Senjou de (機動戦士ガンダムSEED: 友と君と戦場で / Friends and Foes at the Battelfield)For the PlayStation 2:Gundam Seed: Federation vs. Z.A.F.T.Mobile Suit Gundam SeedMobile Suit Gundam Seed: Never Ending TomorrowMobile Suit Gundam Seed Destiny: Generation of CEGundam Seed: Federation vs. Z.A.F.T. 2 PlusBattle Assault 3 featuring Gundam SEEDAnother Century's Episode 3: The FinalFor the PlayStation Portable:Gundam Seed: Federation vs. Z.A.F.T. PortableSuper Robot WarsIn Super Robot Wars Alpha 3 for the PlayStation 2, the last installment of the Super Robot Wars Alpha series, some story plots in Gundam SEED are central to the main story of the game. The climax of these plots would be the Second Battle of Jachin Due, where players would be able to see the re-enactment of the destruction of the GAT-X105 Strike (piloted by Mu La Flaga) and the Dominion.Also, players would be able to use both the ZGMF-X10A Freedom and ZGMF-X09A Justice in battle against Rau Le Creuset and the ZGMF-X13A Providence. New dialogue was recorded for this non-canonical encounter.The SEED storyline would be used again in Super Robot Wars J for the Game Boy Advance, and used yet again for Super Robot Wars W for the Nintendo DS, which also featured the storyline for the Gundam SEED ASTRAY manga.ReferencesExternal linksGundam-seed.net Official Gundam SEED website GundamOfficial: Official Gundam SEED site[http://www.ytv.com/programming/shows/gundam_seed/ Gundam SEED] at YTVAnimax's official site [http://www.madman.com.au/gundamseed Gundam SEED]: Australian official release    SEED Category:Cosmic Era Category:Sunrise Category:YTV shows Category:ABS-CBN Category:Anime of 2002 Category:Anime of 2004 Category:Manga of 2003 Category:Featured in the Super Robot Wars Series Category:Cartoon Network shows Category:Tokyopop titles Category:Shōnen Category:Madman Entertainment animede:Gundam Seed es:Gundam Seed fr:Gundam SEED it:Mobile Suit Gundam SEED ms:Gundam Seed nl:Mobile Suit Gundam SEED ja:機動戦士ガンダムSEED pl:Mobile Suit Gundam SEED pt:Mobile Suit Gundam Seed ru:Mobile Suit Gundam SEED sv:Gundam SEED tl:Mobile Suit Gundam SEED th:กันดั้มซี้ด vi:Gundam Seed zh:機動戰士GUNDAM SEED