 |result=Anglo-Dutch victory |combatant1= England Dutch Republic |combatant2= France |commander1= George Rooke Philips van Almonde |commander2=Château-Renault Manuel de Velasco |strength1=25 ships of the line+ frigates and fireshipsFrancis: The First Peninsular War: 1702–1713, p. 53. Ships of the line that took part in the actual battle: 15 English, 10 Dutch |strength2=15 French ships of the line3 Spanish galleons+ frigates, fireships, and transportsFrench: 15 ships of the line plus two frigates and a fireship. Spanish: 3 galleons, plus 17 galleys. |casualties1=~200 killed |casualties2=All ships burnt or captured~2,000 killedStanhope: History of the War of the Succession in Spain, p. 63   The Battle of Vigo Bay was a naval engagement fought on 23 October 1702 during the opening years of the War of the Spanish Succession. The engagement followed an Anglo-Dutch attempt to capture the Spanish port of Cádiz in September in an effort to secure a naval base in the Iberian Peninsula. From this station the Allies had hoped to conduct operations in the western Mediterranean Sea, particularly against the French at Toulon. The amphibious assault, however, had proved a disaster, but as Admiral George Rooke retreated home in early October, he received news that the Spanish treasure fleet from America, laden with silver and merchandise, had entered Vigo Bay in northern Spain. Rooke at once decided to attack.The engagement was an overwhelming naval success for the Allies: the entire French escort fleet, under the command of Château-Renault, together with the Spanish galleons and transports under Manuel de Velasco, had either been captured or destroyed. Yet, because most of the treasure had been off-loaded before the attack, hopes of capturing the bulk of the silver cargo had eluded Rooke. Nevertheless, the victory was a welcome boost to Allied morale and had helped persuade the Portuguese King, Peter II, to abandon his earlier treaty with the French, and join the Grand Alliance.Background The accession of the Bourbon Philip V to the Spanish throne in 1700 had aroused little opposition in Spain, except amongst the Catalans who were traditionally loyal to the Habsburgs.Roger: The Command of the Ocean: A Naval History of Britain 1649–1815, p. 164 In the Spanish American empire, however, officials and colonists resisted French attempts to take over their trade. Dutch and English traders – though officially illegal – were accepted by the Spanish, but in the Caribbean French Admirals who had come to ‘protect’ Spanish silver home to Europe were regarded with intense suspicion.Roger: The Command of the Ocean: A Naval History of Britain 1649–1815, p. 165 The first French squadron sailed in April 1701 under the Marquis de Coëtlogon, but the Spanish governors would not even permit him to buy victuals, and he returned empty handed. Nevertheless, the weakness of the Spanish navy left the government in Madrid little choice but to rely on French warships for escort duty. Every effort was made to ensure that the bullion was landed in Spain rather than France, whence it might never return.The naval campaign of 1702 was therefore played out in two distant theatres of America and Spain, linked together by the trail of the Spanish treasure ships across the Atlantic. The American theatre became a scene long remembered in popular English tradition following Admiral Benbow’s running battle in August off Santa Marta.Trevelyan: England Under Queen Anne: Blenheim, p. 249 However, the Royal Navy’s main effort was not off the Spanish Main, but off the Spanish coasts in Europe.Trevelyan: England Under Queen Anne: Blenheim, p. 259 Under the leadership of King William III the Maritime Powers – England and the Dutch Republic – had resolved upon a Mediterranean strategy for the Allied fleets, a policy continued under William’s successors following his death in March 1702. Their allies, the Austrians, were also clamouring for a naval presence in the Mediterranean to assist them in achieving their own primary ambitions – the capture of Spain’s provinces in Italy. To meet these ends, the Anglo-Dutch fleets would first need to seize a port in the Iberian Peninsula from which their ships could operate. The Allies, therefore, resolved upon an expedition, led by Admiral George Rooke, to capture the southern Spanish port of Cádiz, and at a stroke cut off Spain’s transatlantic trade.PreludeSilver fleet from AmericaOn 11 June 1702, the silver fleet from New Spain left [[Veracruz, Veracruz| Veracruz]] under escort of a French squadron commanded by Admiral Château-Renault. The Spanish vessels were commanded by Manuel de Valesco in his armed galleon, the Capitana de Barlovento, one of three ships forming the Armada de Barlovento whose task it was to protect the fleet.The Armada de Barlovento was originally a defence squadron based in the Caribbean. The whole convoy arrived at Havana on 7 July; on 24 July they struck out across the Atlantic.Kamen: Bulletin of the Institute of Historical Research: The Destruction of the Spanish Silver Fleet at Vigo in 1702, p. 166 The fleet comprised 56 vessels: 22 were Spanish, the rest French. Many of the French ships were not warships but merchantmen which, by the end of the voyage, had sailed for France as soon as their safety across the Atlantic had been assured. At 30° latitude Velasco sent ahead one of the smaller Spanish ships off to Seville to warn the consulate and traders that the fleet was on its way; this vessel put in a San Lucar on 13 September.When Château-Renault had set out for the Caribbean in 1701, war between France and the Maritime Powers had not yet been declared, but as the convoy sailed home, news arrived of the outbreak of hostilities; this was shortly followed by reports of the Anglo-Dutch blockade of Câdiz, the usual destination of the silver fleet from America. It was clear a new harbour would be needed: Valesco considered the small port of Los Pasajes, but Château-Renault favoured Brest or La Rochelle, or even Lisbon. A compromise was put forward, and on 23 September the Franco-Spanish fleet entered Vigo Bay in Galicia. There was, however, considerable delay in unloading the cargo; the whole administrative apparatus normally present was in Seville and Cádiz: inspectors, valuers, royal officials, etc., had to be awaited before anything could be put ashore. Due to lack of transportation, priority was given to the silver, which was unloaded first and despatched inland to Lugo.Kamen: Bulletin of the Institute of Historical Research: The Destruction of the Spanish Silver Fleet at Vigo in 1702, p. 167.]]Allied pursuitAdmiral Benbow, whose squadron was too small to attack the Franco-Spanish convoy, had sent word from the Caribbean to London of the treasure fleet’s departure. On 4 October Admiral Cloudesley Shovell’s squadron left England to intercept the silver fleet; by mid-October the English government had learnt of the presence of the Spanish treasure ships in Vigo Bay, and immediately sent off messengers to scour the seas for Shovell and Rooke. By now Rooke was returning home from the disastrous campaign against Cádiz, which, due to ill-discipline and poor co-operation, had forced the admiral to abandon the enterprise at the end of September. Fortuitously, however, Rooke had already learnt the news of the Spanish convoy from one of his own ships. Captain Thomas Hardy in the Pembroke had stayed behind to water in the Portuguese port of Lagos. Pembroke’s chaplain, a Jersey man named Beauvoir, had learned from the boastful French consul of the treasure ships in the harbour; a messenger from the Imperial Embassy in Lisbon confirmed the news to Beauvoir. At once, Hardy gave chase, and caught Rooke on 17 October in time to prevent him crossing the Bay of Biscay.Trevelyan: England Under Queen Anne: Blenheim, p. 268 Admiral Rooke recorded in his journal:Under consideration of the intelligence brought to Captain Hardy of the Pembroke … It is resolved that we make best our way to the port of Vigo, and insult them immediately with our whole line, if not by such detachments as shall render the attempt most effectual.Symcox: War, Diplomacy, and Imperialism: 1618–1763, p. 226Rooke sent ships to explore the mouth of Vigo Bay. A landing party had gleaned information from a captured friar that King Philip’s part of the treasure had already been landed, but that much wealth was still left on board the Spanish vessels.BattleOn the evening of 22 October the Anglo-Dutch fleet entered Vigo Bay; the two forts of Vigo city fired at them as they sailed by, but the guns proved ineffectual. At the end of the bay, beyond Vigo, the French fleet and Spanish treasure ships lay in the harbour of Redondela, surrounded by the Galician mountains. Château-Renault, who had taken charge of the defensive measures, had blocked the narrow entrance with a boom made largely of timber and chain tightly bound together. At the north end of the boom was positioned a gun battery which, according to Rooke’s journal, comprised ‘fifteen or sixteen’ guns; at the south end sat Fort Randa sitting a little way up from the sea, consisting of a strong stone tower with platforms constructed for cannon. The space between the tower and the water’s edge consisted of a fortified enclosure, at the bottom of which stood a battery commanding the straits; in total, the Randa fortifications had been armed with more than 30 guns. To supplement the French troops from the fleet, a number of levies were raised by the Prince of Barbanzon, governor and captain-general of Galicia.Aboard the Royal Sovereign, an Allied council of war discussed the options for the attack. The plan was to destroy the boom with English and Dutch ships whilst the troops from the fleet would attack the shore defences. The encounter would not be a conventional line-of-battle engagement; Vigo Bay allowed no room for the deployment of a battle line, so Rooke had to adapt his tactics to the exigencies of the situation. Rooke recorded in his journal:Upon consideration of the present position of Monsieur Château-Renault’s squadron … and in regard the whole fleet cannot, without great hazard of being in a huddle, attempt them where they are: it is resolved to send in a detachment of fifteen English and ten Dutch ships of the line of battle with all the fireships, to use their best endeavours to take or destroy the aforesaid ships of the enemy …Symcox: War, Diplomacy, and Imperialism: 1618–1763, p. 229Breaking the boomEarly in the morning on 23 October, Vice Admiral Hopsonn in the Torbay led the attack on the boom, closely followed by a strong squadron of his English ships, and of Dutch vessels under Vice Admiral Van der Goes.Trevelyan: England Under Queen Anne: Blenheim, p. 270 Near each end of the boom Château-Renault had moored one of his largest men-of-war, the Bourbon at one end, and the Esperance at the other; within the boom he had moored five other large men-of-war, with their broadsides bearing upon the entrance. Meanwhile, Ormonde and some 2,000 men, landed on the shore near Teis, and marched for Fort Randa. (See map). Ormonde sent Lord Shannon with the vanguard of grenadiers to assault the position, defended by several hundred troops. The wall enclosing the outer ward was stormed, and the seaward battery silenced in time to assist the breaking of the boom by the ships. The tower, defended by approximately 300 Franco-Spanish troops, held out a little longer, but this also fell to the Allied grenadiers. As the southern shore guns were being assailed by Ormonde's men, the 90 gun Association attacked and silenced the smaller northern battery on the other side of the bay.The Torbay, favoured by a breath of wind, crashed at the boom; it cracked, and the ship floated through in amongst the French squadron beyond. However, a sudden drop in the breeze prevented any other Allied vessel following, and Hopsonn found himself temporarily outnumbered. A fireship was laid alongside the Torbay, setting it alight. Fortunately for Hopsonn the fireship, laden with snuff from the Spanish Indies, suddenly blew up, and a great cloud enveloped the English vessel, partly extinguishing the flames thus enabling the crew to control the blaze.Trevelyan: England Under Queen Anne: Blenheim, p. 271 According to Rooke’s journal 53 men were drowned in the incident, but as the breeze picked up, the other Allied ships managed to traverse the boom and engage with the enemy.With the boom broken, and the forts silenced, the Franco-Spanish fleet was lost. Offering little resistance, Château-Renault’s men set fire to their own ships in the harbour, and sought safety on shore. The Allied seamen worked throughout the night to save their prizes; by morning there was not a single French or Spanish vessel that had not been either captured or destroyed.AftermathPlunderVigo Bay was a major naval disaster for the French:Lynn: The Wars of Louis XIV: 1667–1714, p. 277 of the 15 French warships, 2 frigates and one fireship, not a single vessel escaped.Kamen: Bulletin of the Institute of Historical Research: The Destruction of the Spanish Silver Fleet at Vigo in 1702, p. 168 Five ships were captured by the English, and one by the Dutch; the rest were burnt, either by the Allies or the French themselves. (See table below). The Spanish suffered as badly as the French: of the three galleons and 13 trading vessels in their fleet, all were destroyed, save five which were taken by the Allies (at least three of these were captured by the English). By 24 October most of the damage was complete; what remained of the ships and the fortifications were destroyed by Admiral Shovel’s squadron on 27 October. Rooke collected his prisoners and troops and set sail for England, Shovell following later.Spanish naval losses meant a total dependence on the French navy to keep up communications with the Americas.Roger: The Command of the Ocean: A Naval History of Britain 1649–1815, p.166 Yet the Spanish government hardly felt the financial blow: it owned only two of the three large galleons, and none of the trading vessels. Those who suffered the most, not just from the losses of the ships but also from the immense merchandise on board, were the private traders. The tons of pepper, cochineal, cocoa, snuff, indigo, hides, etc. were not owned by the government; what the government did own was the silver, the majority of which had already been unloaded from the ships long before the Allied attack, and ultimately deposited in the castle of Segovia.Kamen: Philip V of Spain: The King who Reigned Twice, p. 32. The silver was placed in charge of Juan de Larrea, a leading member of the Council of the Indies. Although it is impossible to estimate exactly how much silver the English government received, it is far less than often supposed. The Master of the Mint, Isaac Newton, stated in June 1703 that the total metal handed in to him by that date was 4504 lb 2 oz of silver, and 7 lb 8 oz and 13 dwt of gold, estimated at a value of just £14,000.Kamen: Bulletin of the Institute of Historical Research: The Destruction of the Spanish Silver Fleet at Vigo in 1702, p. 171The news that the treasure fleet had got safely to Vigo had initially been a cause of celebration to the merchants in Holland, but the subsequent reports of the battle were received with mixed feelings in Amsterdam;Trevelyan: England Under Queen Anne: Blenheim, p. 272 the wealth captured or destroyed belonged as much to the English and Dutch traders as it did to the Spanish. In February 1703, Philip V issued a decree, by way of reprisal, to confiscate all the silver that had come with the treasure fleet belonging to the English and Dutch, totalling four million pesos. In addition, the King decided to borrow two million pesos from what had come for the Spanish traders and the Consulate of Seville. In total, Philip managed to keep nearly seven million pesos, representing over half the silver from the fleet, amounting to the biggest sum in history obtained from the American trade by any Spanish king.Kamen: Philip V of Spain: The King who Reigned Twice, p. 32 The result was a financial windfall for Philip.Methuen TreatiesThe naval success at Vigo had considerable implications for the Grand Alliance. On the accession of the Bourbon King Philip V to the Spanish throne, King Peter II of Portugal, anxious to remain friends with his more powerful neighbour, had signed an alliance with France in June 1701. But it was the security of Portugal’s overseas empire that was more important than its inland frontier.Roger: The Command of the Ocean: A Naval History of Britain 1649–1815, p. 167 To protect Portugal’s trade routes from South America, the ministers in Lisbon knew the importance of aligning themselves with the dominant naval power in the Atlantic. After Rooke’s success at Vigo, it was clear that that naval strength reposed in the Maritime Powers.In May 1703, the Portuguese signed the Methuen Treaties with England. "The preservation of our overseas colonies makes it indispensable for us to have a good intelligence with the powers which now possess the command of the sea," commented José da Cunha Brochado, the Portuguese minister in London, "the cost is heavy, but for us such an understanding is essential." It was an Allied triumph to detach Portugal from her French alliance: with Lisbon as a base the Allied fleet could dominate the Strait of Gibraltar and cripple French action in the Mediterranean.Wolf: The Emergence of the Great Powers: 1685–1715, p. 69 But the alliance with Portugal forced a major change in Allied strategy: the Maritime Powers now found themselves committed to extensive campaigning in Spain, with one army based in Lisbon, another based to the east in Catalonia. The policy was ultimately to prove a heavy burden and the cause of a disastrous campaign in the peninsular, but in the long term, the commercial provisions of the treaties were to prove an essential component of Britain’s wealth. The naval victory at Vigo, therefore, made an indirect but powerful contribution to Britain’s 18th century prosperity.Fleets''These tables show the ships of the line that took part in the action; not the entire fleets.Anglo-Dutch – RookeShipGunsCommanderNotes''Mary''60Edward HopsonPhoenix (fireship)''Grafton''70Thomas HarloweVulture (fireship)''Torbay''80Andrew Leake Vice Admiral Thomas Hopsonn''Kent''70John Jennings''Monmouth''70John BakerDordrechtSeven Provinces90Vice Admiral VandergoesOne fireshipVelue''Berwick''70Richard EdwardsTerrible (fireship)''Essex''70John HubbardRear Admiral Stafford FairborneGriffin (fireship)''Swiftsure''70Robert Wynn''Ranelagh''80Richard Fitzpatrick''Somerset''80Thomas DilkesAdmiral George RookeHawk (fireship)''Bedford''70Henry HaughtonHunter (fireship)MuydeHollandAdmiral CalemburgOne fireshipUnieRear Admiral WassenaerReygerburgh''Cambridge''80Richard Lestock''Northumberland''70James GreenwayRear Admiral GraydonLightning (fireship)''Orford''70''Pembroke''60Thomas HardyGoudaAlkmaarVice Admiral PietersenOne fireshipCatwyckFrench – Château-RenaultShipGunsCommanderNotesLe Fort76Admiral Château-RenaultBurntLe Prompt76Admiral BeaujeuCaptured by the English''L’Assuré ''66d’AligreCaptured by the EnglishL’Espérance70GallissonnièreTaken, but run ashore and bilgedLe Bourbon68MontbaultCaptured by the DutchLe Sirène60MongonTaken, but run ashore and bilgedLe Solide56ChampmeslinBurntLe Ferme72BeaussierCaptured by the EnglishLe Prudent62GrandpréBurntL’Oriflamme64TricambaultBurntLe Modéré56L’AutierCaptured by the EnglishLe Superbe70BottevilleTaken, but run ashore and bilgedLe Dauphin46DuplessisBurntLe Volontaire46SorelTaken, but run ashoreLe Triton42de CourtCaptured by the EnglishCultural referencesIn Jules Verne’s novel Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea, bullion from the sunken Spanish ships in Vigo Bay provided Captain Nemo with money.Notes  ReferencesFrancis, David. The First Peninsular War: 1702–1713. Ernest Benn Limited, (1975). ISBN 0-510-00205-6Kamen, Henry. Bulletin of the Institute of Historical Research: The Destruction of the Spanish Silver Fleet at Vigo in 1702. (1966)Kamen, Henry. Philip V of Spain: The King who Reigned Twice. Yale University Press, (2001). ISBN 0-300-08718-7Lynn, John A. The Wars of Louis XIV: 1667–1714. Longman, (1999). ISBN 0-582-05629-2Roger N.A.M. The Command of the Ocean: A Naval History of Britain 1649–1815. Penguin Group, (2006). ISBN 0-141-02690-1Stanhope, Philip. History of the War of the Succession in Spain. London, (1836)Symcox, Geoffrey. War, Diplomacy, and Imperialism: 1618–1763. Harper & Row, (1973). ISBN 06-139500-5Trevelyan, G. M. England Under Queen Anne: Blenheim. Longmans, Green and co., (1948)Wolf, John B. The Emergence of the Great Powers: 1685–1715. Harper & Row, (1962). ISBN 0061397509Vigo Bay Vigo Bay Vigo Bay Vigo Bay Category:Conflicts in 1702 Category:History of Galicia Category:Vigo Category:1702 in Franceca:Batalla de la badia de Vigo de:Seeschlacht von Vigo es:Batalla de Rande fr:Bataille navale de Vigo gl:Batalla de Rande ko:비고 만 해전 it:Battaglia della Baia di Vigo nl:Slag bij Vigo ja:ビーゴ湾の海戦 pl:Bitwa morska w zatoce Vigo pt:Batalha de Rande sr:Битка у заливу Виго