 Decimation (Latin: decimatio; decem = "ten") was a form of military discipline used by officers in the Roman Army to punish mutinous or cowardly soldiers. The word decimation is derived from Latin meaning "removal of a tenth."decimate. The American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language: Fourth Edition. 2000&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;ProcedureA cohort selected for punishment by decimation was divided into groups of ten; each group cast lots (Sortition), and the soldier on whom the lot fell was executed by his nine comrades, often by stoning or clubbing. The remaining soldiers were given rations of barley instead of wheat and forced to sleep outside of the Roman encampment.Because the punishment fell by lot, all soldiers in the selected cohort were eligible for execution, regardless of rank or distinction.Decimation was assumed to inspire fear and resolve on the remaining troops. In practice, however, decimation led into complete disintegration of the esprit de corps of the unit as soldiers, seeing their comrades being slaughtered, not by the enemy but their own, lost completely their resolve and trust to the commanders. The Byzantine emperor Maurikios (582-602) strongly warns against arbitrary punishments in the Strategikon, implying they do more harm than good for the morale.Nevertheless some historic sources attribute to this practice part of the success of Crassus over Spartacus on the Third Servile War.SourcesThe earliest documented decimation occurred in 471 BC during the Roman Republic's early wars against the Volsci and is recorded by Livy.Ab urbe condita, ii.59 The practice was revived by Crassus in 71 BC in the Third Servile War against Spartacus. Julius Caesar is often reported as having used the practice on the 9th Legion during the war against Pompey, but this has been disproved.Goldsworthy, Caesar: Life of a Colossus, 407Decimation was still in practice during the Roman Empire. Suetonius records that it was used for the last time by Augustus in 17 BCSuetonius, Augustus, 24 while Tacitus records that Lucius Apronius used decimation to punish a full cohort of the III Augusta after their defeat by Tacfarinas in AD 20.Tacitus, Annals, 3Modern instances of decimationIn his book Stalingrad, Antony Beevor recounts how a Soviet corps commander of a division practiced decimation on the retreated soldiers by walking down the line of soldiers at attention, and shooting every tenth soldier in the face until his pistol ran out of ammunition.Antony Beevor, Stalingrad, p. 117.Decimation can be also used to punish the enemy. In 1918, in the Finnish Civil War, the White troops, after the battle of Varkaus, ordered all the captured Reds to assemble in a single row on the ice of Huruslahti, selected first all leaders and then every fifth prisoner, and executed them on the spot. This incident is known as the Huruslahden arpajaiset (Lottery of Huruslahti). The Reds had attempted a stratagem by using a white flag as a trap; it had failed, and the Whites punished the Reds for breaching the rules of conflict.Current usage of the wordIn current English use, the word decimation is often used to refer to an extreme reduction in the number of a population or force, usually greater than the one tenth of the Roman practice or implied by the "deci" root. While growing, this usage is still not completely accepted. Some other uses of the word are generally regarded as incorrect (complete destruction, harming an indivisible, etc.)decimate - definition of decimate by the Free Online Dictionary, Thesaurus and Encyclopedia&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Should “Decimate” be Annihilated? : OUPblog&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;http://www.worldwidewords.org/backissues/wbi080112.txt&lt;/ref&gt;NotesExternal linksLachesis ('lækəsɪs, Greek Λάχεσις — "allotter" or drawer of lots) measured the thread of life with her rod. Her Roman equivalent was Decima (the 'Tenth').Decimatio, article in Smith's Dictionary of Greek and Roman AntiquitiesDid Julius Caesar Decimate a Legion?Category:Ancient Roman military punishmentsbg:Децимация cs:Decimace da:Decimere de:Dezimierung el:Αποδεκατισμός es:Decimatio fr:Décimation it:Decimazione lt:Decimacija nl:Decimatie ja:十分の一刑 no:Desimering pl:Decymacja pt:Dizimar ru:Децимация (наказание) fi:Decimatio sv:Decimering