 The Uzbek Soviet Socialist Republic ( O`zbekiston Sovet Sotsialistik Respublikasi;  Uzbekskaya Sovetskaya Sotsialisticheskaya Respublika), also known as the Uzbek SSR for short, was one of republics that made up the Soviet Union. In 1991, the Uzbek SSR became independent and was renamed the "Republic of Uzbekistan."HistoryIn 1924, the borders of political units in Central Asia were changed along ethnic lines determined by Lenin’s Commissar for Nationalities, Joseph Stalin. The Turkestan ASSR, the Bukharan People's Republic, and the Khorezm People's Republic were abolished and their territories were divided into eventually five separate Soviet Socialist Republics, one of which was the Uzbek Soviet Socialist Republic (Uzbek SSR), created on 27 October 1924. The next year the Uzbek SSR became one of the republics of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (Soviet Union).The Uzbek SSR included the Tajik ASSR until 1929, when the Tajik ASSR was upgraded to an equal status. In 1930, the Uzbek SSR capital was relocated from Samarkand to Tashkent. In 1936, the Uzbek SSR was enlarged with the addition of the Karakalpak ASSR taken from the Kazakh SSR in the last stages of the national delimitation in the Soviet Union. Further bits and pieces of territory were transferred several times between the Kazakh SSR and the Uzbek SSR after World War II.In 1928, the collectivization of land into state farms was initiated, which lasted until the late 1930s.In 1937-38, during the "Great Purge", a number of alleged nationalists were executed, including Faizullah Khojaev, the first prime minister.During World War II, many industries were relocated to the Uzbek SSR from vulnerable locations in western regions of the USSR to keep them safe. Large numbers of Russians, Ukrainians and other nationalities accompanied the factories, altering the demographics of the republic. The demographics situation was further aggravated by Stalin’s relocation of some ethnic groups suspected of collaboration with the Axis powers from other parts of the USSR to the Uzbek SSR. This included large numbers of ethnic Koreans, Crimean Tatars, and Chechens.During the Soviet period, Islam became a focal point for the antireligious drives of Communist authorities. The government closed most mosques, and religious schools became antireligious museums. On the positive side was the virtual elimination of illiteracy, even in rural areas. Only a small percentage of the population was literate before 1917; this percentage increased to nearly 100 percent under the Soviets.Another major development, one with future catastrophic impact, was the drive initiated in the early 1960s to substantially increase cotton production in the republic. This drive led to overzealous irrigation withdrawals of irrigation water from the Amu Darya and the subsequent Aral Sea ecological disaster.The Communist Party was the only legal party in the Uzbek SSR until 1990. The first secretary, or head, of the Communist Party of Uzbekistan was consistently an Uzbek. Long-time leader of the Uzbek SSR was Sharof Rashidov, head of the Communist Party of Uzbekistan from 1959 to 1983. Islom Karimov, leader of the Communist Party of Uzbekistan since 1989 and subsequently head of that party's reincarnation, the People's Democratic Party (PDP), became president of the Uzbek SSR in 1990.On 1 September 1991, the Uzbek SSR was renamed into Republic of Uzbekistan, formally remaining a part of the Soviet Union until December 26 1991. With the final collapse of the Soviet Union, the Uzbek SSR became the independent nation of Uzbekistan. Karimov has been its President ever since.External links[http://www.archive.org/details/UzbekistanAnotherBigLeapForward Uzbekistan; Another Big Leap Forward] by Afif AlimovCategory:Soviet Republics Category:History of Uzbekistanaf:Oezbekistanse Sosialistiese Sowjetrepubliek az:Özbəkistan Sovet Sosialist Respublikası br:RSS Ouzbekistan bg:Узбекска съветска социалистическа република ca:República Socialista Soviètica de l'Uzbekistan cs:Uzbecká sovětská socialistická republika de:Usbekische SSR et:Usbeki NSV es:República Socialista Soviética de Uzbekistán fr:République socialiste soviétique d'Ouzbékistan gv:Pobblaght Hoveidjagh Hoshiallagh ny h-Oosbeckistaan gl:República Socialista Soviética de Usbequistán ko:우즈베크 소비에트 사회주의 공화국 id:RSS Uzbekistan it:RSS Uzbeka lt:Uzbekijos TSR mk:Узбешка ССР nl:Oezbeekse Socialistische Sovjetrepubliek ja:ウズベク・ソビエト社会主義共和国 no:Den usbekiske sosialistiske sovjetrepublikk uz:Oʻzbekiston Sovet Sotsialistik Respublikasi pl:Uzbecka Socjalistyczna Republika Radziecka pt:República Socialista Soviética Uzbeque ro:Republica Sovietică Socialistă Uzbekă ru:Узбекская Советская Социалистическая Республика fi:Uzbekistanin sosialistinen neuvostotasavalta sv:Uzbekiska SSR vi:Cộng hòa Xã hội chủ nghĩa Xô viết Uzbekistan tr:Özbekistan Sovyet Sosyalist Cumhuriyeti uk:Узбецька РСР zh:乌兹别克苏维埃社会主义共和国