  | |- | |- | The carambola is a species of tree native to Indonesia, India and Sri Lanka and is popular throughout Southeast Asia, Trinidad, Malaysia and parts of East Asia. It is also grown throughout the tropics. Carambola is commercially grown in the United States in south Florida and Hawaii for its fruit, known as the starfruit. It is closely related to the bilimbi.Health risksIndividuals with kidney trouble should avoid consuming the fruit, because of the presence of oxalic acid. Juice made from carambola can be even more dangerous owing to its concentration of the acid. It can cause hiccups, vomiting, nausea, and mental confusion. Fatal outcomes after ingestion of star fruits have been described in uraemic patients.Chang JM et al., Am J Kidney Dis 2000;35:189. Kidney patients should avoid star fruit&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Drug interactionsLike grapefruit, star fruit is considered to be a potent inhibitor of seven cytochrome P450 isoforms.Abstracts: Metabolism and metabolic enzymes studies for the 8th National Congress on Drug and Xenobiotic Metabolism in ChinaPotential Drug-Food Interactions with Pomegranate Juice These enzymes are significant in the first pass elimination of many medicines, and thus the consumption of star fruit or its juice in combination with certain medications can significantly increase their effective dosage within the body. Research into grapefruit juice has identified a number of common medications affected, including statins which are commonly used to treat cardiovascular illness, benzodiazepines (a tranquilizer family including diazepam) as well as other medicines.P450 Table These interactions can be fatal if an unfortunate confluence of genetic, pharmacological, and lifestyle factors results in, for instance, heart failure, as could occur from the co-ingestion of star fruit or star fruit juice with atorvastatin (Lipitor).HistoryThe star fruit originally came from Sri Lanka and the Moluccas. For the past several hundred years, it has been cultivated in Malaysia.Star Fruit, Carambola - star fruit facts - Food Reference&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;In popular cultureThe Paopu Fruit in Kingdom Hearts is based on the Carambola. Sales of Carambola rose following the release of the game.Gallery  Image:Leaves- both sides I IMG 8443.jpg|Leaves- both sides in India. Image:Fruits, leaves & Trunk I IMG 8445.jpg|Fruits, leaves & Trunk Image:Big-bilimbi.jpg|Full grown fruit ReferencesExternal linksIntoxication by star fruit (Averrhoa carambola) in 32 uraemic patients: treatment and outcome (Oxford journals)Category:Fruit Category:Tropical agriculture Category:Flora of Indonesia Category:Vietnamese cuisineid:Belimbing ms:Belimbing besi bn:কামরাঙ্গা jv:Blimbing ch:Bilembines cs:Karambola da:Karambol de:Sternfrucht dv:ކާމަރަނގަ es:Averrhoa carambola eo:Karambolfrukto to:Tapanima fa:اختری fr:Carambolier ko:카람볼라 it:Averrhoa carambola he:קרמבולה pam:Taranati ht:Karanbòl nl:Carambola ja:スターフルーツ no:Stjernefrukt pl:Oskomian pospolity pt:Carambola ru:Карамбола fi:Karambola sv:Carambola tl:Balimbing th:มะเฟือง vi:Khế zh-yue:楊桃 zh:楊桃