 The Wood Sandpiper, Tringa glareola, is a small wader. It is the smallest of the shanks, and breeds in subarctic wetlands from the Scottish Highlands across Europe and Asia. It will nest on the ground, or reuse the old tree nest of another bird, such as the Fieldfare.It resembles a longer-legged, elegant Green, or Solitary Sandpiper with a short fine bill, brown back and longer yellowish legs. It differs from the first of those species in that the white rump patch is smaller and less contrasting, and Solitary lacks a white rump anyway. Its closest relative, however, is the Common Redshank, and together they share a sister relationship with the Marsh Sandpiper (Pereira & Baker, 2005). These three species are a group of smallish shanks which tend to have red or reddish legs, and in breeding plumage are generally a subdued, light brown above with some darker mottling, with a pattern of somewhat diffuse small brownish spots on the breast and neck.They migrate to Africa and southern Asia, particularly India. This bird is usually found on fresh water during migration and wintering.These birds forage by probing in shallow water or on wet mud. They mainly eat insects, and similar small prey.The Wood Sandpiper is one of the species to which the Agreement on the Conservation of African-Eurasian Migratory Waterbirds (AEWA) applies.References Database entry includes justification for why this species is of least concernHayman, Peter; Marchant, John & Prater, Tony (1986): Shorebirds: an identification guide to the waders of the world. Houghton Mifflin, Boston. ISBN 0-395-60237-8Pereira, Sérgio Luiz & Baker, Alan J. (2005): Multiple Gene Evidence for Parallel Evolution and Retention of Ancestral Morphological States in the Shanks (Charadriiformes: Scolopacidae). Condor 107(3): 514–526. DOI: 10.1650/0010-5422(2005)1070514:MGEFPE2.0.CO;2 HTML abstractGallery Image:Wood Sandpiper (Non-breeding) near Hodal I IMG 9635.jpg| Non-breeding plumage, India. Image:Wood Sandpiper (Non-breeding) at Puri I IMG 9172.jpg|Non-breeding plumage in India. Image:Wood Sandpiper (Tringa glareola) near Hodal I IMG 9550.jpg| In India. Image:Wood Sandpiper (Tringa glareola) near Hodal I IMG 9536.jpg| In India. Image:Wood Sandpiper (Tringa glareola) near Hodal I IMG 9497.jpg| In India. Image:Marsh Sandpiper I IMG 1605.jpg|In India. Image:Marsh Sandpiper I IMG 1603.jpg|In India. Image:Wood Sandpiper (Breeding)- Bharatpur I2 IMG 8646.jpg|In India. Image:Wood Sandpiper (Non-breeding) near Hodal I IMG 9633.jpg|In India.   Category:Scolopacidae Category:Wading birds Category:Birds of Pakistan Category:Birds of Europe Category:Birds of South Australia Category:Birds of Western Australiabg:Малък горски водобегач de:Bruchwasserläufer es:Tringa glareola eo:Brovtringo fr:Chevalier sylvain it:Tringa glareola lt:Tikutis hu:Réti cankó nl:Bosruiter ja:タカブシギ no:Grønnstilk nn:Grønstilk pms:Tringa glareola pl:Łęczak pt:Maçarico-bastardo fi:Liro sv:Grönbena tr:Orman düdükçünü zea:Bosruter