
| birth_place   =[[Ebingen]], [[Germany]]
| death_date    =
| occupation    =[[Lawyer]]
| religion      =[[Roman Catholic Church|Roman Catholic]]
| party=[[National Socialist German Workers Party|NSDAP]] (1933-45), [[Christian Democratic Union of Germany|CDU]] Kurt Georg Kiesinger (6 April 1904&ndash;9 March 1988) was a conservative German politician and Chancellor of West Germany from 1 December 1966 until 21 October 1969.Early lifeBorn in Ebingen, Germany, Kiesinger was educated in Berlin and became a lawyer. As a Student, he became Member of the Roman Catholic fraternity Askania-Burgundia. He joined the Nazi Party (NSDAP) in 1933. From 1940, Kiesinger worked at the German foreign ministry's radio propaganda department where he was responsible for that ministry's connection with the propaganda ministry. After the war, he was interned and spent several months in the Ludwigsburg camp before being acquitted by the denazification courts. He was exonerated by a protocol of the RSHA which noted that he had hampered and averted anti-Jewish actions in his department.Political careerBy the time the first national elections were held in the Federal Republic in 1949, Kiesinger had joined the Christian Democratic Union (CDU) and won a seat in the Bundestag, the West German parliament. In 1951 he became a member of the CDU executive board. During that time, he became known for his rhetorical brilliance, as well as his in-depth knowledge of foreign affairs. However, despite the recognition he enjoyed within the Christian Democrat parliamentary faction, he was passed over during various cabinet reshuffles. Consequently, he decided to switch from federal to state politics: He was appointed Prime Minister (Ministerpräsident) of the state of Baden-Württemberg on 17 December 1958, an office in which he served until 1 December 1966.ChancellorshipIn 1966 following the collapse of the existing CDU/CSU-FDP coalition Kiesinger was elected to replace Ludwig Erhard as Chancellor, heading a new CDU/CSU-SPD alliance. The government formed by Kiesinger remained in power for nearly three years with the SPD leader Willy Brandt as Deputy Federal Chancellor and Foreign Minister. Kiesinger reduced tensions with the Soviet bloc nations establishing diplomatic relations with Czechoslovakia, Romania and Yugoslavia but he opposed any major conciliatory moves.One of his low points as chancellor was in 1968 when activist Beate Klarsfeld publicly slapped him in the face during the 1968 Christian Democrat convention, while calling him a Nazi. She did so in French but - whilst being dragged out of the room by two ushers - repeated her words in German saying "Kiesinger! Nazi! Abtreten!" ("Kiesinger! Nazi! Step down!") Kiesinger, holding his left cheek and being close to tears, did not respond. Up to his death he refused to comment on the incident.After the election of 1969, the SPD preferred to form a coalition with the FDP, ending the uninterrupted post-war reign of the CDU chancellors. Kiesinger was succeeded as Chancellor by Willy Brandt. Kiesinger continued to head the CDU/CSU in opposition until July 1971 and remained a member of the Bundestag until 1980. He died in Tübingen. His funeral procession was followed by protesters (mainly students) who wanted his entire legacy known - even after his death - especially his former membership in the NSDAP.Kiesinger's Ministry1 December 1966 - 21 October 1969Kurt Georg Kiesinger (CDU) - ChancellorWilly Brandt (SPD) - Vice Chancellor and Minister of Foreign AffairsGerhard Schröder (CDU) - Minister of DefensePaul Lücke (CDU) - Minister of the InteriorFranz Josef Strauß (CSU) - Minister of FinanceGustav Heinemann (SPD) - Minister of JusticeKarl Schiller (SPD) - Minister of EconomicsHans Katzer (CDU) - Minister of Labour and Social AffairsHermann Höcherl (CSU) - Minister of Food, Agriculture, and ForestryGeorge Leber (SPD) - Minister of TransportLauritz Lauritzen (SPD) - Minister of ConstructionBruno Heck (CDU) - Minister of Family and YouthKäte Strobel (SPD) - Minister of HealthGerhard Stoltenberg (CDU) - Minister of Scientific ResearchHans-Jürgen Wischnewski (SPD) - Minister of Economic CooperationWerner Dollinger (CSU) - Minister of Posts and CommunicationsKai-Uwe von Hassel (CDU) - Minister of Displaced Persons, Refugees, and War VictimsHerbert Wehner (SPD) - Minister of All-German AffairsCarlo Schmid (SPD) - Minister of Bundesrat and State AffairsKurt Schmücker (CDU) - Minister of Federal TreasureChanges2 April 1968 - Ernst Benda (CDU) succeeds Lücke as Minister of the Interior.16 October 1968 - Aenne Brauksiepe (CDU) succeeds Heck as Minister of Family and Youth. Erhard Eppler (SPD) succeeds Wischnewski as Minister of Economic Cooperation.7 February 1969 - Heinrich Windelen (CDU) succeeds Hassel as Minister of Displaced Persons, Refugees, and War Victims.LiteratureGassert, Philipp. Kurt Georg Kiesinger 1904-1988. Kanzler zwischen den Zeiten DVA, München 2006.    |PLACE OF BIRTH=Ebingen, Germany |DATE OF DEATH= |PLACE OF DEATH=Tübingen   Category:Chancellors of Germany Category:Members of the German Bundestag Category:People from the Kingdom of Württemberg Category:German Nazi politicians Category:German Christian Democratic Union politicians Category:German Roman Catholicsbs:Kurt Georg Kiesinger bg:Курт Георг Кизингер ca:Kurt Georg Kiesinger cs:Kurt Georg Kiesinger da:Kurt Georg Kiesinger de:Kurt Georg Kiesinger et:Kurt Georg Kiesinger el:Κουρτ Γκέοργκ Κίσινγκερ es:Kurt Georg Kiesinger eo:Kurt Georg Kiesinger fr:Kurt Georg Kiesinger hr:Kurt Georg Kiesinger io:Kurt Georg Kiesinger id:Kurt Georg Kiesinger it:Kurt Georg Kiesinger he:קורט גאורג קיסינגר ka:კურტ გეორგ კიზინგერი sw:Kurt Georg Kiesinger la:Curtius Georgius Kiesinger nl:Kurt Georg Kiesinger ja:クルト・ゲオルク・キージンガー no:Kurt Georg Kiesinger oc:Kurt Georg Kiesinger nds:Kurt Georg Kiesinger pl:Kurt Georg Kiesinger pt:Kurt Georg Kiesinger ro:Kurt Georg Kiesinger ru:Кизингер, Курт Георг simple:Kurt Georg Kiesinger fi:Kurt Georg Kiesinger sv:Kurt Georg Kiesinger tr:Kurt Georg Kiesinger zh:库尔特·乔治·基辛格