  Roxana (Bactrian, Persian: Roshanak; Bactrian definition literally "luminous beauty"; Persian definition "the dawn"), was a Bactrian noble and a wife of Alexander the Great. She was born earlier than the year 341 BC, though the precise date remains uncertain. She was the daughter of a Bactrian named Oxyartes of Balkh in Bactria (then eastern Persia, now Uzbekistan and northern Afghanistan), and married Alexander in 327 BC after he visited the fortress of Sogdian Rock. Balkh was the last of the Persian Empire's provinces to fall to Alexander, and the marriage was an attempt to reconcile the Bactrian satrapies to Alexander's rule, although ancient sources describe Alexander's professed love for her. Roxana accompanied him on his campaign in India in 326 BC. She bore him a posthumous son called Alexander IV Aegus, after Alexander's sudden death at Babylon in 323 BC. With the king's death, Roxana and her son became victims of the political intrigues of the collapse of the Alexandrian empire. Roxana murdered Alexander's other widow, Stateira II, and Stateira's sister Drypteis (Pl. Alex. 77.4). Roxana and her son were protected by Alexander's mother, Olympias, in Macedon, but her assassination in 316 BC allowed Cassander to seek kingship. Since Alexander IV Aegus was the legitimate heir to the Alexandrian empire, Cassander ordered him and Roxana assassinated around 309 BC.External linksLivius.org: Roxane by Jona LenderingWiki Classical Dictionary: Roxane, daughter of OxyartesRoxana from Charles Smith's Dictionary of Greek and Roman Biography and Mythology (1867)Historical NovelsCave, A.J. Roxana Romance Pavasta: 2008, Hardcover, ISBN 978-0-9802061-0-4, eBook, ISBN 978-0-9802061-1-1Category:4th century BC births Category:309 BC deaths Category:Alexander the Great Category:Given names Category:Persian given names Category:Romanian given names Category:Queens consort Category:Women in Hellenistic warfare Category:Urdu namesbs:Roksana ca:Roxana cv:Рохшанак cy:Roxana da:Roxana de:Roxane (Alexander der Große) el:Ρωξάνη es:Roxana fa:روشنک (شاه‌دخت باختری) fr:Roxane ko:록사나 it:Rossane he:רוקסנה kk:Раушан hu:Rhóxané mk:Роксана mr:रोक्साना nl:Roxane (Alexander de Grote) no:Roxana pl:Roksana (żona Aleksandra) pt:Roxana ru:Роксана fi:Roksane sv:Roxana zh:罗克珊娜