Caviar is the processed, salted roe of certain species of fish, most notably the sturgeon (black caviar) and the salmon (red caviar). It is commercially marketed worldwide as a delicacy and is eaten as a garnish or a spread; for example, with hors d'œuvres.EtymologyThe word caviar entered English via Italian Online Etymology Dictionary&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; or Turkish,; it is ultimately derived from Persian //, from khaya "egg" (from Middle Persian khayak "egg," from Old Iranian *qvyaka-, diminutive of *avya-, from PIE *owyo-/*oyyo- "egg") + dar "bearing." Some also think it derives from the Persian word خاگ‌آور (), meaning "the&nbsp;roe-generator"; others say chav-jar, which means "cake of power", a reference to the ancient Persian practice of eating caviar in stick form as a kind of elixir.LEDA at Harvard Law School - A Brief History of CaviarIn Persian, the word refers to both the sturgeon and its roe; in Russian, the word  (ikra), "roe", is used. The Russian word malossol ("little salt") sometimes appears on caviar tins to show that the caviar is minimally salted; typically, caviar contains 4% to 8% salt, with the better-brand varieties generally being less salted.VarietiesThe Caspian Sea is considered the source of the finest black caviar in the world. Contemporary black caviar is roe from sturgeon fished from the Caspian Sea in Azerbaijan, Iran, Russia and Kazakhstan. The highest prices paid are for the Beluga, Ossetra, and Sevruga varieties. The large-grained Beluga caviar is from the Beluga sturgeon, a fish which is unrelated to the Beluga whale, a mammal (the word "beluga" derives from the Russian word for white). The golden Sterlet caviar was once a favorite of czars, shahs, and emperors. Currently, the dwindling fishing yields consequent to overfishing and pollution have resulted in the creation of less costly, though popular, caviar-quality roe alternatives from the whitefish and the North Atlantic salmon.The harvest and sale of black caviar have been banned in Russia since August 1, 2007. The ban extends for 10 years, but scientific research and the artificial breeding of black caviar fish are exempted.EcologyIn the early 1900s, Canada and the United States were the major caviar suppliers to Europe; they harvested roe from the lake sturgeon in the North American midwest, and from the Shortnose sturgeon and the Atlantic sturgeon spawning in the rivers of the Eastern coast of the United States. Today, however, the Shortnose sturgeon is rated Vulnerable in the IUCN Red List of endangered species and rated Endangered per the U.S. Endangered Species Act.In Spain a fish farm called Caviar de Riofrio has begun to produce organic caviar. The company raises sturgeon in such a way that it has earned organic certification by CITES.www.boston.com - More than one fish egg in the seaCurrent aquaculture of sturgeon is an economically viable means of sustainable, commercial caviar production, especially in Spain, France, Uruguay, and California.California Farm Bureau Federation - Farmers tame prehistoric fish to make food fit for a king Hackleback caviar is a popular, inexpensive product of this industry. Paddlefish, a sturgeon cousin, is also farmed in increasing numbers.Recently, the amount of allowed wild fish harvesting has been decreased, consequently increasing caviar prices. In September 2005, the United States Fish and Wildlife Service banned the import of Caspian Sea Beluga caviar, to protect the endangered Beluga sturgeon; a month later, the ban included Beluga caviar from the entire Black Sea basin. In January 2006, CITES, the convention for trade in endangered species, announced they were "unable to approve the caviar export quotas" for 2006 from wild fish stocks.news.bbc.co.uk - International caviar trade banned  In January 2007, this ban was partly lifted, allowing the sale of 96 tons of caviar, 15% below the official 2005 level.news.bbc.co.uk - UN lifts embargo on caviar trade ProductionCommercial caviar production normally involves stunning the fish (usually by clubbing its head) and extracting the ovaries; some commercial fish farmers are experimenting with surgically removing roe from living sturgeon, allowing the females to continue producing more roe during their lives.Alternatives and imitationIn Scandinavia, a significantly cheaper version of caviar, made from mashed and smoked cod roe (smorgaskaviar or sandwichcaviar), sold in tubes as a sandwich filling. When sold outside Scandinavia, the product is referred to as creamed smoked roe.An obvious sturgeon caviar imitation is Danish black coloured lumpsucker caviar, which is sold throughout Europe in small glass jars. It can also be found red coloured. A more expensive sturgeon caviar alternative, sold in Sweden and Finland, is the caviar from the vendace. In Finland caviars from the burbot and the common whitefish are also sold.In some eastern european countries, such as Ukraine, "Ikra" also refers to an eggplant spread which is often referred to as "poor man's caviar."In the vegetarian foodstuffs market, Algae-based imitation caviar is produced and sold as a caviar alternative.CulturalGiven its high price in the West, caviar is synonymous with luxury and wealth. In Russia and other Eastern European cultures, though still expensive, caviar is commonly served at holiday feasts, weddings, and other festive occasions. Sturgeon-derived caviar is generally not eaten by Jews who keep kosher, because sturgeon lacks scales and thus is not considered kosher; however, this does not apply to every roe-yielding fish species. In Islam all sea or river animals such as fish are lawful and halal which applies to the sturgeon as well as its caviar (depending on which school of practice). In Hong Kong and Japan, caviar may be found on sushi and is often very affordable. Salmon roe is called "ikura" in Japanese, a loan word from the Russian, "ikra" (caviar).ReferencesExternal linksCooking For Engineers: CaviarCaviar Prep Recipe (Persian)Stolt Sea FarmSturgeon population in Hudson River - Once-Endangered Sturgeon Rebounding in Hudson River, Study SaysCaspian caviar in perilCategory:Roe Category:Iranian cuisine Category:Kazakhstani cuisinear:خبياري cs:Kaviár da:Kaviar de:Kaviar es:Caviar eo:Kaviaro fa:خاویار fr:Caviar hr:Kavijar it:Caviale he:קוויאר lt:Ikrai nl:Kaviaar ja:キャビア no:Kaviar pl:Kawior pt:Caviar ru:Рыбья икра sl:Kaviar fi:Kaviaari sv:Kaviar th:คาเวียร์ vi:Trứng cá muối tr:Havyar uk:Ікра zh:鱼子酱