 | birth_place = Corvallis, Oregon | nationality = United States | field = Physics | work_institutions = University of British Columbia | alma_mater = MITStanford University | known_for = Bose-Einstein condensate | prizes = Lorentz Medal (1998)Nobel Prize in Physics (2001)Oersted Medal (2007) Carl Edwin Wieman (born March 26 1951) is an American physicist at the University of British Columbia and Nobel Prize in Physics laureate for his production in 1995 with Eric Allin Cornell, the first true Bose-Einstein condensate.BiographyWieman was born in Corvallis, Oregon and graduated from Corvallis High School. Wieman earned his B.S. in 1973 from MIT and his Ph.D. from Stanford University in 1977; he was also awarded a Doctor of Science, honoris causa from the University of Chicago in 1997. He was awarded the Lorentz Medal in 1998. In 2001, he won the Nobel Prize in Physics, along with Eric Allin Cornell and Wolfgang Ketterle. In 2004, he was named United States Professor of the Year among all doctoral and research universities.Wieman joined the University of British Columbia on 1 January 2007 and is heading a well-endowed science education initiative there; he retains a twenty percent appointment at University of Colorado, Boulder to head the science education project he founded in Colorado.In the past several years, Wieman has been particularly involved with efforts at improving science education and has conducted educational research on science instruction. Wieman currently serves as Chair of the Board on Science Education of the National Academy of Sciences. He has used and promotes Eric Mazur's "peer instruction", a pedagogical system, where teachers repeatedly ask multiple-choice concept questions during class, and students reply on the spot with little wireless "clicker" devices. If a large proportion of the class chooses a wrong answer, students discuss among themselves and reply again. In 2007, Wieman was awarded the Oersted Medal, which recognizes notable contributions to the teaching of physics, by the American Association of Physics Teachers (AAPT).Selected publicationsSee alsoTimeline of low-temperature technologyReferencesExternal linksCarl Wieman's blog at ScientificBlogging.comCarl E. Wieman biography at the Nobel FoundationGlobe and Mail ArticleCarl E. Wieman patents at Patent Genius Category:American physicists Category:Massachusetts Institute of Technology alumni Category:Nobel laureates in Physics Category:People from Corvallis, Oregon Category:Stanford University alumni Category:University of British Columbia faculty Category:University of Colorado facultybg:Карл Уиман ca:Carl Wieman de:Carl E. Wieman es:Carl E. Wieman fr:Carl Wieman id:Carl Wieman it:Carl Wieman ht:Carl Wieman ku:Carl Wieman nl:Carl Wieman ja:カール・ワイマン pl:Carl Wieman pt:Carl Wieman ro:Carl Edwin Wieman ru:Виман, Карл fi:Carl Wieman sv:Carl Wieman zh:卡尔·威曼