 | location = Honolulu, Hawaii, United States | deathdate = | deathplace = | othername = | homepage = | academyawards = | spouse = Shin Kawasaki  Christine Keiko Agena (born October 3, 1973) Keiko Agena official site: Date of birth; URL accessed April 27, 2007. is an American actress. She is known professionally as Keiko Agena.BiographyPersonal lifeKeiko Agena (pronounced KAY-koh ah-GE-nah) was born in Honolulu, Hawaii. She is Japanese American. She began acting at the age of 10. She has attended Mid-Pacific Institute preparatory school on the island of O‘ahu and Whitman College for one year as a drama major. She enjoys riding her motorcycle around Los Angeles and participating in an Asian-American theatre company called hereandnow.Agena married Shin Kawasaki in a helicopter over Las Vegas, Nevada on December 19, 2005.CareerAgena is known for her role in the television series Gilmore Girls, where she played Lane Kim, a young Korean-American girl who is the best friend of one of the lead characters. Agena played this role despite being significantly older than her character, who was 16 at the start of the series when Agena was 27. Agena also appeared in the television series Felicity and was a recipient of the Best Female Actor prize in the Ammy Awards, which honor Asian and Asian-American achievement in film or television. She also provided the voice of Yori in the Disney cartoon series Kim Possible in seasons 2, 3 and 4 of the show. Also, Agena played Jun Ni in the movie Hair Show starring Mo'Nique. She recently guest starred on Private PracticeReferencesExternal linksOfficial websiteKeiko Agena's biography on filmbugPopGurls Interview: Keiko Agena  Category:1973 births Category:American television actors Category:Living people Category:People from Honolulu, Hawaii Category:Hawaiian actors Category:Japanese Americans Category:Asian American actorsda:Keiko Agena de:Keiko Agena es:Keiko Agena fr:Keiko Agena it:Keiko Agena nl:Keiko Agena ja:ケイコ・アジェナ pl:Keiko Agena sv:Keiko Agena zh:安慶名惠子