  Guwahati (Assamese: গুৱাহাটী, previously spelled Gauhati) is a major city in eastern India, often considered as the gateway to the North-East Region (NER) of the country and is the largest city within the region. Dispur, the capital of the Indian state of Assam is situated within the city. Guwahati is one of the most rapidly growing cities in India. During past few decades it has experienced unprecedented spatial expansion and also steep rise in population. In fact according to a survey done by a UK media, Guwahati is among the first 100 fastest growing city of the world and is 5th fastest growing among Indian cities. Today, the city straddles between the LGB International Airport in the west to Narengi in the east for almost 45 kilometres and between the southern bank of the Brahmaputra river and the foothills of the Shillong plateau for around 15 kilometres. Moreover, the city is also getting gradually expanded to the northern bank of Brahmaputra. Guwahati with population just 0.2 million in 1971 is a million plus city today. Guwahati Municipal Corporation (GMC), the city's local government covers an area of 216 km², while Guwahati Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), the planning and development authority covers an area of 340 km².It is a major commercial and educational center of eastern India and is home to world class institutions such as the Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati. The city is also a major center for cultural activities and sports in the North Eastern Region and for the administrative and political activities in Assam. The city is also an important hub for transportation in the North East Region.Guwahati is also one of the most beautiful cities in South Asia with the mighty and picturesque Brahmaputra, river islands (e.g. Umananda), beaches, beach-islands (balicapori), thick tropical green cover, natural sweetwater lakes, hills with thick forests and with beautiful and lively native population.Traditionally, Guwahati has been an important administrative and trading center and a river port. The name Guwahati is derived from two Assamese words: 'guwa' (areca nut) and 'haat' (market place). The name used to be spelled as Gowhatty (pre-colonial and colonial), standardized to Gauhati (colonial-British), which was then changed to the present form in the late 1980s to conform to the local pronunciation.Myths and historyriver. The peaked Kamakhya Hills are to the left, the Saraighat bridge near the horizon and on the right bank is North Guwahati. The Nehru stadium and the railway station are faintly visible, right bottom.]] Guwahati's myths and history are extended to several thousands of years. Although a specific time of the city's origin is unknown, with reference from the epics, puranas and from the pages of the explored history, it can be concluded that it is one among the ancient cities in Asia.Epigraphic sources place capitals of many ancient kingdoms in Guwahati. It was the capital of the mythological kings Naraka and Bhagadatta (reference in the Mahabharata). The ancient sakti temple of Kamakhya in the Nilachal hill (also important seat of tantric and Vajrayana Buddhism), Navagraha, the nine planets temple (ancient and a unique temple for astrology) located in Chitrachal Hill and archaeological remains in Basista and many other locations support the mythological characters and the city's ancient past.The Ambari excavations trace the city to the 6th century AD. The city was known as Pragjyotishpura and Durjoya in different periods of time and was the capital under the Varman and the Pala dynasties of the Kamarupa kingdom. Descriptions by Xuanzang (Hiuen Tsang) reveal that during the greatest Varman king Bhaskaravarma 7th century AD, the city was stretched to 19 km and probably was the principal base for his strong naval force (30,000 war-boats, with officers knowing details of the sea-routes in Indian Ocean to China - Xuanzang). The city remained as the capital of Assam till 10-11th century AD under the rulers of the Pala dynasty. Excavations in Ambari and the brick walls and houses excavated during construction of the present auditorium of Cotton College, Guwahati suggest that it was a city of great size with economic and strategic importance till the 9-11th century AD.In the medieval times, after weakening and destruction of the Kamata kingdom between the 12-15th century AD, the city lost its earlier glory and became only a strategic outpost of the then Koch Hajo and Ahom Kingdoms of western and eastern Assam. Later the western part of the Koch Kingdom fell to the Mughals and the eastern half became an Ahom protectorate. Although the actual border between both the powers (Ahoms and Mughals) kept fluctuating between Kartoya river (now in North Bengal) to Manas river and Barnadi river time to time, Guwahati became the actual war-front (as the outpost of importance).The city was the seat of the Borphukan, the civil and military authority of the lower Assam region appointed by the Ahom kings. The Borphukan's residence was in the present Fansi Bazaar area, and his council-hall, called Dopdar, was situated about  to the west of the Bharalu stream. The Majindar Baruah, the personal secretary of the Borphukan, had his residence in the present-day Deputy Commissioner's residence .Mughals attacked Assam for 17 times and many a times temporarily Guwahati fell to them. The Battle of Saraighat fought close to Guwahati in 1671 is the most famous and known war, in which the Mughals faced severe defeat due to strong leadership of Lachit Borphukan and hard work of Assamese Army.There are a number of historic features in Guwahati. The Dighali Pukhuri is a rectangular lake that was connected to the Brahmaputra, and was an ancient boat yard, which was probably also used by the Ahoms in the medieval times. Moreover, there are many tanks, temples, ramparts, etc. in the city. The most important archaeological site is the Ambari excavation site close to Digholy Pukhury.Natural environmentGeomorphologically, the city is located in an area, where the Shillong Plateau and the Floodplains of the Brahmaputra confront each other. Landforms within the city are therefore unique with dissected hills (originally part of the Shillong Plateau), plain areas and natural lakes (the beels), swamps and the mighty river Brahmaputra.The main city is situated on the southern bank of the Brahmaputra. At places the width of the river is 6 to 8 km, while its narrowest portion (1.8 km) is in the location of the famous bridge of Saraighat. There are many permanent and temporary islands and beaches in the river. Umananda a permanent island situated close to the city-center provides a unique picturesque environment. The natural drainage system consist of the Bharalu River (a tributary - the Brahmaputra) and its inter-linkages to the beels and to the Brahmaputra river. Apart from Bharalu, many small rivers Morabharalu, Bahini, and Basista flow within the city interconnected with the feeder drains of the city.There are numerous beels spread throughout the city, which largely contribute to aesthetic and natural environments.Deepor Beel, a Ramsar Convention list wetland of international importance, the only such large water reserve of Guwahati adds to its close relation with nature. It is a famous site for the bird fans after being declared a bird sanctuary by the officials. Other water bodies/wetland within the city are Soru Sola Beel and Bor Sola Beel. The Bor-Sola Beel, which about four times the length of Dighalipukhuri, stretches from behind the Meghadoot Cinema hall and the Nepali Mandir in the Paltan Bazaar locality in the north end to Sarabhatti locality in the south end and is the biggest water body within the city.There are several hills of different sizes and shapes. The hills in the northern areas (Nilachal or Kamakhya Hill in the north-west, Chitrasala or Kharghuli Hill in the north) close to the bank of Brahmaputra, south-central areas (Narakasur Hill, Kalapahar and Fatasil Hill) and eastern areas (Narengi, Hengerabari, etc) have in fact guided Guwahati's development in three elongated corridors limiting to the plain areas. Many of these hills such as the Nilachal, Chitrachal, Narakasur, etc. are famous of their legendary, religious and historic importance.Climate Guwahati's climate is mildly sub-tropical with warm, dry summers from April to late May, a strong monsoon from June to September and cool, dry winters from late October to March. The city's average yearly temperature is recorded at 24 degree Celsius (76 °F). Average high temperature is recorded at 29 degree Celsius (85 °F), while the average low at 19 degree Celsius (67 °F). The highest recorded yearly temperature is 40 degree Celsius (104 °F), while the lowest recorded yearly temperature is 5 degree Celsius (41 °F). December, January and February are the coldest and June, July, August and September are the hottest. Average yearly precipitation is 161.3 cm (63.5inches) with an average number of 77.3 rainy days. June and July are the wettest months. Extreme high level of humidity, many a times at more than 80/90 percent often creates discomfort during summer.Urban morphologyGuwahati's 'urban form' is somewhat like a starfish. With a core in the central areas, the city has tentacles extending in the form of growth corridors towards south, east and west. In the past few decades, the southern Guwahati with the areas such as Ganeshguri, Beltola, Panjabari, etc. are forming a southern sub-center surrounding the capital complex at Dispur and principally depending on the GS Road corridor.The core area consists of the old city with Pan Bazaar, Paltan Bazaar, Fansi Bazaar and Ujan Bazaar, each one facilitating unique urban activities. When Paltan Bazaar is the hub for transportation and hotels, Pan Bazaar if for educational, administrative, cultural activities and for offices and restaurants, Fansi Bazaar is the hub for retail and wholesale-commercial and on the other hand Ujan Bazaar is for administrative, retail-commercial and residential activities. The core Guwahati with these areas is the busy and lively part of the city. Ulubari, Lachit Nagar and Chandmari with Zoo (R.G. Baruah) Road can be considered as added part of the core, which have a mix of retail-commercial and residential activities.Among the corridors, the most important is the corridor formed along the Guwahati-Shillong (GS) Road towards south (almost 15 km from the city-center). The GS Road corridor is an important commercial area with retail, wholesale and offices developed along the main road and is also a densely-built residential area in the inner parts. The capital complex of Assam at Dispur is situated in this corridor. The corridor also facilitates growth of a southern node (sub city-center) at Ganeshguri along with other southern residential areas developed during past few decades.The corridor towards west (around 30 km from the city-center) is a rail-road corridor linking not only Guwahati but also other parts of NER east of Guwahati to western Assam and to the mainland India. The corridor links residential and historically important areas such as Nilachal Hill (Kamakhya), Pandu, Maligaon (headquarters of Northeast Frontier Railways) and separates into two - one towards North Guwahati and the other one towards further west to the LGB International Airport via the University of Gauhati (Jalukbari). There are also many river ports/jetties along this corridor.The third major corridor is towards east (around 15 km from the city-center) linking Noonmati (Guwahati Oil Refinery - IOC Ltd.) and Narengi. The corridor facilitates residential growth towards east.Moreover, the bypass of NH 37 encircling the city's southern parts linking the western corridor in Jalukbari and the southern corridor in Nomile is currently supporting rapid development along it. Similarly the VIP Road linking Zoo Road and the eastern corridor and recently completed Hengerabari-Narengi Road as planned in the older master plan are also supporting massive residential development in the east.In brief, the major components of Guwahati's urban structure are:The core or the 'city center' with Pan Bazaar, Paltan Bazaar, Fansi Bazaar and Ujan BazaarThe extended core with Chandmari, Zoo Road and UlubariThe north-southeast Guwahati-Shillong (GS) Road CorridorThe southern sub-center of GaneshguriThe western corridor towards Kamakhya, Jalukbari and LGBI Airport andThe eastern corridor towards Noonmati and NarengiGreater Guwahati [[Mouza]]s and VillagesSilasindurighopa : Nort-Guwahati, Rudreswar, Gouripur, Abhoypur, Tilinggaon, Sila Grant, Ghorajan, Nomalijalah, Amingaon.Pub Bangsar : Charmajuli pam.Dakhin Rani : Barjhar, Kahikuchi, Jugipara.Chhayani : Kaithasidhi.Jalukbari : Garalgaon, Ajaragaon, Dharampur, Upar Mirjapur, Mikirpara Chakardai, Dipar Bill, Pamahi, Dehangarigaon, Kacharigarigaon, Pachim Jalukbari, Dakhin Jalukbari, Maj-Jalukbari, Uttar Jalukbari, Sadilapur, Tetelia, Pachim Baragaon, Pub Baragaon, Pub Baragaon N.C., Pachim Baragaon N.C., Tetelia N.C., Gotanagar, Maligaon, Durgasarobar N.C., Fatasilgaon N.C., Kamakhya, Gorpandu, Kumarpara, Pandu, Bharalumukhgaon, Jugipara.Beltola : Dhalbama, Betkuchi, Jutikuchi, Fatasilgaon, Barsapara, Greenwood Grant, Odalbakra Grant, Odalbaragaon, Dakhingaon, Saukuchi, Saru-Sajoi, Bar-Sajoi, Natbama, Hatigaon, Jatia, Kahelipara-gaon, Kahelipara N.C., Dispur, Dispur N.C., Bhagargaon Grant, Japarigog, Hengrabari N.C., Hengrabari Garden, Hengrabarigaon, Saru Mataria, Rukunigaon, Bar Mataria, Khanapara, Maidam, Basistha, Basistha Grant, Basisthagaon, Duar-Andha, Bagharbari, Satgaon, Birkuchigaon, Birkuchi N.C., Kalitakuchigaon, Kalitakuchi N.C., Nunmati, Modghoria N.C., Modghoria No. 1, Modghoria No. 2, Nunmati Garden, Bondagaon, Bonda Grant-I, Bonda Grant-II, Bonda N.C., Kharghuligaon, Sunsali Grant, Kharghuli Gaon, Kharghuli N.C., Jansimalu, Jansimalu N. C.Ulubari : Ulubari New Town, Sarania New Town, Bamuni Maidan New Town, Nunmatigaon, Ulubari, Bamuni Maidam, Ramcha Hill Grant, Chunsali Grant, Clarence Grant, Kharghuli New Town.Guwahati : GuwahatiGovernanceGuwahati Municipal Corporation (GMC) is the local body responsible for governing, developing and managing the city. GMC has sub-divided the city into 60 municipal wards. The Guwahati Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) is a state parastatal agency currently responsible for planning and development of Guwahati Metropolitan Area, which is currently revising the Guwahati Master Plan and the Building Bye-laws.The Guwahati Development Department, a special department of the Government of Assam has been recently formed for Guwahati's overall development.Gauhati consists of two assembly constituencies: Gauhati East and Gauhati West, both of which are part of Gauhati (Lok Sabha constituency).DemographicsGuwahati is one of the most rapidly growing cities in India. The city's population grew from just two-hundred thousand in 1971 to more than five-hundred thousand in 1991 and in the census of 2001 the city's population was found to be 808,021. By 2011, it is estimated that Guwahati will be a million plus city.In 2001, males constituted 55 percent while the females at 45 percent. It was found that 10 percent of the population is under 6 years of age. Guwahati has an average literacy rate of 78 percent with a male literacy at 81 and female at 74 percent.EconomySeparate income estimates for the city are yet not available as city-level income estimation is not a traditional practice in India and is not practiced in a systematic and continual manner. But looking at the agglomeration of activities and employment patterns it can be easily understandable that the city contributes a lions share of the state's income.The major economic activities are trade and commerce, transportation and services. Guwahati is the most important trade hub in NER. It is a major wholesale distribution center, a marketing hub and also a retail hub in the region. The Guwahati Tea Auction Centre is one of the largest in the world. As in other cities, 'mall culture' is slowly invading Guwahati. Manufacturing is also an important activity although it is not comparable to those of India's rapidly growing industrial cities. The most important manufacturing industry in the city is the petroleum refinery of IOCL at Noonmati. The city is also the head quarter or the seat for regional offices for several manufacturing and business establishments, e.g. Numaligarh Refinery Limited (NRL). Guwahati is also important for printing and publishing and businesses related to electronic and print media. During past two decades, businesses such as real estate development, finance, etc. are also intensifying.Tourism and recreation, education, research, cultural activities, etc. are also slowly increasing and are contributing to city's economy.Quality of lifeAlthough being a medium sized city ranking around at 50th position (in terms of population) in India, city's quality of life is comparatively higher. A recent survey (2006) by a popular Indian magazine - Outlook (Money) has ranked Guwahati at 17th among all the major and medium sized Indian cities.The city provides competitive residential and working environments with beautiful landscapes, pleasant climate, modern shopping areas, modern apartments and bungalows and considerably good social infrastructure.But infrastructure in the city requires extensive attention, which can increase and revolutionize city's reputation, investment environment and overall growth pattern. Major investments in infrastructure are being planned in the city covering many aspects of utility and transport infrastructures with financial assistance from Asian Development Bank (ADB). City is to also receive substantial city development funds from JNNURM (Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission) - the Government of India's recently conceived mission for urban development. A city development plan has been recently finalised for the city.Utility and transport infrastructureThe city suffers from lack of utility infrastructure. The existing water supply system is inadequate. It depends largely on ground water resources (higher water level). Neither has it a comprehensive underground sewage system. Septic tanks at individual houses are popular. The storm drainage system is comparatively good, although many areas experience water logging due to heavy rainfall in the monsoon. Extensive soil erosion from the hillocks and clogging of the drainage system is frequent and expensive for the city. Solid waste is being managed by the local authority with private partners. It lacks modern equipment, methods and practices.Lack of sufficient road space is also a major problem. The length of surfaced road within the city is presently 218 km (ARSAC). The major corridor roads suffer from insufficient right of way, illegal construction and improper planning and design. The roads in the residential neighborhoods are extremely narrow (lack of proper regulations) causing problems related to both traffic and infrastructure installations. Cul-de-sacs are neither planned nor designed properly.Guwahati has a good public transport system. A government agency - ASTC (Assam State Transport Corporation) and many private operators provide a considerably good city-bus system. It requires further modernisation and integration with city planning and management initiatives. Besides these Guwahati is the first city in northeast where low floored buses were introduced.Guwahati is serviced the Lokopriya Gopinath Bordoloi International Airport at Borjhar about 20 km west of the city center. Air connectivity has improved considerably in the last couple of years and all major domestic airlines fly into Guwahati except Go Air and Paramount Airlines. Indian connects Guwahati internationally to Bangkok once a week. Guwahati airport averages about 20 arrivals and departures a day. Guwahati is connected directly to Delhi, Jaipur, Mumbai, Kolkata, Hyderabad, Bangalore and other major cities in India by different airlines. A modernization plan is underway at Guwahati airport right now and once it is completed, the AAI plans to make Guwahati a hub of air connectivity.Guwahati has three railway stations serving it. Its major station is Guwahati Junction. Two minor stations are Kamakhya (adjacent to the NF Railways headquarters) and New Guwahati (for freight services) located towards west and east respectively. Major trains serving Guwahati are Guwahati Rajdhani Express, Saraighat Express, North-East Express, Guwahati-Jorhat Town Jan Shatabdi Express.Guwahati is very well connected with adjoining regions via bus services. Two nodal points, Adabari and Paltan Bazaar, provide bus services to towns and cities in Assam and adjoining states. Some of these services are run by the government agency ASTC, whereas a vast majority of them are run by private companies. "Night supers", or buses that run overnight, and luxury coaches, are very popular.Educational and health infrastructureThe city has Gauhati University in Jalukbari. The century old Cotton College is one of the most reputed colleges in eastern India and possesses great scholastic and cultural values.The Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati is the recent addition to the high-profile world's renowned IITs in India. Within a very short period of time, Guwahati IIT is proving itself as an excellent institution for research and education and its ranking among the IITs in India is increasing every year.The Assam Engineering College and the Gauhati Medical College and Hospital are the two important institutions for science and technology and medical education.Among the city's many other institutions of higher learning, Gauhati Commerce College, College of Veterinary Science, Government Ayurvedic College, Arya Vidyapeeth College,B. Borooah College, Handique Girls College (the latter two have both Arts and Science streams), Assam Engineering Institute (engineering diploma courses), Pandu College, LCB College, West Guwahati Commerce College,K.C.Das Commerce College(1983)http://www.kcdccollege.com, Netaji Vidyapith Rly. H.S. School(Maligaon), Vidya Niketan High School(Pandu) etc. are well known.The city is an important center for health facilities in eastern India. Many government and private specialty hospitals are available. The most important are the Guwahati Medical College and Hospital, Guwahati Neurological Research Centre (GNRC), Down Town Hospital, B. Baruah Cancer Institute, Sankardev Netralaya, , etc. Medical education and research are also important activities.Sports infrastructureGuwahati has considerably good sports infrastructure. The Nehru Stadium and the Kanaklata Indoor Stadium in R.G. Baruah Sport Complex in Ulubari locality is older sports complex of the city.There are smaller stadiums in Maligaon--the N.F. Railway Stadium and in Paltan Bazaar area where the SAI Sports complex is located.Recently completed sports infrastructure specially constructed for the 33rd National Games includes a large stadium at Sarusajai--the Indira Gandhi Athletic Stadium, the Dr. Zakir Hussain Aquatic Complex, and the Karmabir Nabin Chandra Bordoloi A.C. Indoor Hall. Other new sports infrastructure include the Maulana Md. Tayabullah Hockey Stadium in Bhetapara, the Deshbhakta Tarun Ram Phookan Indoor Stadium at Ulubari, Rajib Gandhi Indoor Stadium in Amingaon, and Chachal Tennis Complex.The other renovated sports complexes include--Ganesh Mandir Indoor Stadium, Khanapara, Rudra Singha Sports Complex, Dispur and Gauhati University sports stadium.Moreover, along with the Brahmaputra, there are many lakes and rocky hillocks in the city suitable for various water and adventure sports.Places of interestsGuwahati possesses many places of interests with lively urban activities, ancient temples, attractive natural features (apart from the Brahmaputra river) and with recreational activities. Guwahati is also situated at the center of an attractive region (within 200 km radius) with natural parks, wildlife sanctuaries, hill stations of different types and with a colourful cultural landscape.===Urban attractions=== There are several interesting and lively places in the city. These areas provide the city with hotels, restaurants, shopping and business areas. The most lively part is the city center. Momos and chicken rolls are popular fast food available almost in every restaurant. Moreover, there several good restaurants offering Indian, South Indian, traditional Assamese, Chinese and continental food. There are also several good book shops and music stores. Few of these lively areas in the city are:Pan Bazaar: A lively part of the city center on the southern bank of the Brahmaputra. Cotton College, Digholy Pukhury (Dighali Pukhuri), The State Museum, RBI, District Court (Kamrup District), etc. are major landmarks. Moreover, the area also possesses many libraries, major government offices and a shopping district. Restaurants and bookshops in the area provide a unique environment. It is also a major wholesale market for drugs and pharmaceutical products and a hub for printing and publication. Close to Digholy Pukhury, there are many stores with traditional arts and crafts from Assam and other parts of the NER. Kacari Ghat, next to the district court is an important local river port.Fancy Bazaar: Situated in the western part of the city-center is a busy commercial district for both wholesale and retail. Fansi Bazaar is the hub for various wholesale products ranging from food and beverages, garments to hardware and building materials. It is also known for the retail shopping areas for clothes and garments.(because of the existence of a district jail, hangings used to take place here during the British regime, which is responsible for the prefix 'Phasi', i.e., hanging, that later got mispronounced as 'Fancy')Paltan Bazaar: In the central part of the city-center is the hub for transportation and hotels. With Guwahati railway station, the regional bus stand (ASTC), numerous hotels, restaurants and offices and stops of numerous private bus service (regional) providers, the area is the busiest and congested. There are also many small shops selling traditional garments from various parts of the NER.Ganeshguri: Is a newly developed commercial node in the south outside the city-center. Its proximity to the state capital complex and rapidly growing southern residential areas have made it an important sub-city-center. Ganeshguri is a busy part of the city with retail shopping areas, hotels and restaurants and small businesses.Beltola Bazaar: Is a traditional weekly fruits and vegetables market with historic importance. The market exisists since historic past and is an important traditional trading point between the people from the Khasi hills (Meghalaya) and local people. It is a rich market with various types of local food products. It is located in Beltola, a predominantly residential area in the south.Other attractionsThe key attractions are:Urban AttractionsArt & CultureAncient & HistoricOthersFansi Bazaar]]Shankardev KalakhetraUma Nanda TempleAccolandPaltan BazaarJyoticitrobonBasistha TempleGuwahati PlanetariumGaneshguriGuwahati Book FairNavagraha TempleNehru StadiumBeltolaBazaarNEDFi HaatSukreswar TempleDigholy PukhuryZoo RoadAssam Forest MuseumDigheswari TempleNarengi Golf ClubPanduLokenath Temple, Loco Colony, PanduRudreswar TempleRest Camp KalibariUgra Tara TempleHajo]]Pandu PortGarchuk Lachit GarhRegional attractionsGuwahati is also located centrally to many of the regional tourist destinations and the city provides basic communication services and tours to access these. Few of these are:Kaziranga National Park - 200 km east, famous for one horned rhinocerosPobitora Wildlife Sanctuary - 60 km eastShillong - 100 km south, a beautiful hill station and the capital city of Meghalaya surrounded by pine forestsTawang - 200 km north, a famous Buddhist monastery in the snow-clad Arunachal-HimalayasManah / Manas National Park - 150 km west, a beautiful wildlife sanctuary in the foot hills of HimalayaMoreover, there are several wonderful picnic spots (e.g. Candubi) in and around the city.Hundreds of traditional Oxomeeya (Assamese), Bodo, Karbi, Tiwa, Garo, Khasi villages and traditional way of life in 200 km radius of the city can be of great interests to tourist. Bamboo and fruit orchards, handloom and handicraft, wet paddy fields, fishing, etc. are typical characteristics of local traditional way of life. Xorthebary and Xualkuchi are two places near the city with tradition of bronze-crafts and silk weaving for thousands of years.Madan Kamdev, at 35 km from the city is an important archeological site with ancient ruins of temples and other structures.Hajo and the sacred place of Hayagriba Madhava are two important religious places both for the Hindus and the Buddhists. One of the temples, which is known as the Haygriba Madhava temple is a Bishnu temple for the Hindus and at the same time an important shrine for the Tibetan Buddhists. The Buddhists believe that the Buddha attained nirvana at this place. The temple was destroyed by Kalapahar and was rebuilt by the Koch king Raghudev in 1543. Another temple in proximity was built by the Ahom king Pramatta Singha, where 'doul' - a grand religious festival is celebrated every year. There is a large pond with a giant turtle close to the temple. Puwa Macca in Hajo is an important religious place for Muslims with a mosque built in 1657 during the time of Mughal's invasion.NotesReferencesExternal linksThe links provide access to important websites related to governance, educational and health establishments, industries and businesses, travel, tourism, media and major events in Guwahati:Governance, Justice and PoliceGuwahati Municipal CorporationThe District of KamrupThe Government of AssamThe Gauhati High Court, GuwahatiGuwahati City PoliceEducationIndian Institute of Technology GuwahatiCotton College, GuwahatiGauhati UniversityAssam Engineering College, GuwahatiHealthGauhati Medical College and Hospital, GuwahatiDown Town Hospital, GuwahatiEconomy - IndustriesGuwahati Tea Auction CentreWest Assam Milk Producers' Cooperative Union Ltd, GuwahatiReference - Guwahati Refinery (IOCL web)Tourism and TravelAssam TourismInformation on GuwahatiJungle Travels - a private tour operator, GuwahatiAssam State Transport CorporationIndian Railways Reservation EnquiryLGB International Airport, GuwahatiIndian AirlinesJet AirwaysKingfisher AirlinesAir SaharaIndigo AirlinesMore information on GuwahatiGuwahati Hotel Informationhttp://earth.google.comSoftware & ITA Guwahati Website Designing CompanyWeb Hosting CompanyMedia, Culture, Sports, etcThe Assam Tribune: An English daily, GuwahatiAsomiya Pratidin: An Assamese daily, fromNortheasterner - Beautiful People - Where northeasterners socialize, to communicate, co operate and collaborate.Guwahatihttp://www.artofasudev.org-The official website of pioneer Indian painter from North East.http://www.gmshr.com- Global Management Services the Best HR Consultant of North East India.rupaliparda.com - link to cinema, music, local TV channelsguwahati.com - a local website33rd National Games, Guwahati (with the new sports complex)8th North-East Book Fair, Guwahatihttp://www.artofasudev.org.in- The official website of pioneer Indian painter from North East.See alsoGauhati (Lok Sabha constituency) Category:Cities and towns in Assam Category:Cities in North East India Category:Guwahati Category:Kamrup Category:Rangia railway division Category:Northeast Frontier Railway Zoneas:গুৱাহাটী bn:গৌহাটি cy:Guwahati de:Gauhati es:Guwahati fr:Guwahati hi:गुवाहाटी bpy:গুৱাহাটি it:Guwahati pam:Guwahati nl:Guwahati new:गुवाहाटी ja:グワーハーティー pl:Guwahati pt:Guwahati ro:Guwahati simple:Guwahati fi:Guwahati sv:Guwahati ta:குவஹாத்தி vi:Guwahati zh:古瓦哈提