  | Origin = Kingston, Jamaica | Instrument = | Genre = ReggaeDancehall | Occupation = Deejay, vocalist | Years_active = 1996–present | Label = VP, Atlantic | Associated_acts = Rihanna, Beyoncé Knowles, Carlos Santana | URL = Sean-Paul.net Sean Paul Henriques (born January 8 1973) is a Grammy Award-winning Jamaican reggae and dancehall artist. He is professionally known as Sean Paul.==Biography== ===Early life=== Sean Paul was born in Kingston, Jamaica, and spent his early years "comfortably"Sean Paul | View the Music Artists Biography Online | VH1.com&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; in Upper Saint Andrew Parish, a few miles north of his birthplace. His parents were both talented athletes, and his mother Frances is a well-known painter.Sean Paul&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; His father Garth is a Sephardic JewSean Paul | www.somethingjewish.co.uk&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; of Portuguese descent, and his mother is of Afro-Caribbean and Chinese descent; both were born in Jamaica. Many members of Sean Paul's family are swimmers.http://www.sohh.com/articles/article.php/8685&lt;/ref&gt; His grandfather was on the first Jamaican men's national water polo team.EW's Celebrity Wish List | Jorge Garcia | Music News | Music | Entertainment Weekly | 1&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; His father also played water polo for the team in the 1960s, and competed in long-distance swimming, while Sean Paul's mother was a backstroke swimmer. Sean Paul played for the national water polo team from the age of thirteen to twenty-one. However, he gave up the sport in order to launch his musical career. He attended Wolmers High School, where he was trained as a classical flautist, Belair High School and the College of Arts, Science, and Technology (CAST) which is now known as the University of Technology (UTech).Early career: ''Stage One''Dancehall music was Sean Paul's first love, and he became proficient at crafting rhythm tracks. He became a deejay after writing his own songs, basing his style largely on the works of Super Cat and Don Yute. The latter was later to become his idol and mentor. Sean Paul was closely connected to the reggae-pop band Third World. His brother, Jason "Jigzagula" Henriques, and his best friend Zameer Masjedee helped him open up business connections. In 1996, Sean Paul released his debut single "Baby Girl (Don't Cry)" with producer Jeremy Harding.Trebas Institute - UC411.com&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; It proved a significant success, and led to further Jamaican hits like "Nah Get No Bly (One More Try)", "Deport Them", "Excite Me", "Infiltrate", and "Strategy".In 1999, Sean Paul started to attract audiences in the United States. He was commissioned to collaborate with fellow dancehall hitmaker Mr. Vegas on a production for rapper DMX, entitled "Top Shotter". The song went on to be included in the film ''Belly'' (directed by Hype Williams). Paul also recorded the Jamaican chart-topper "Ladies Man" with rapper Spanner Banner, through the latter's label, Sweet Angel Productions. The success of "Ladies Man" resulted in Sean Paul being approached by the then little-known Harding, who burst on the scene with his production of Beenie Man's crossover hit "Who Am I" and most famously recorded "Baby Girl (Don't Cry)" with Sean Paul. The following single, "Infiltrate", joined the singer's combination hit in the Jamaican top charts. Also that year, Paul scored a top ten hit on the Billboard Rap chart with "Hot Gal Today", which quickly became his signature tune. Sean Paul fell out very publicly with Mr. Vegas over the packaging of Vegas' remix of "Hot Gal Today", but this did not slow Sean Paul's career momentum.In March 2000, Paul released his first album, Stage One, on VP Records, which included many of his previous hit singles and compilation cuts, plus several new tracks. He played the Summer Jam 2000 in New York City, where he was held in high acclaim. Sean Paul's fanbase grew tremendously with fans from all over the world. In 2001, Sean Paul appeared on Canadian rapper Kardinal Offishall's Quest for Fire: Firestarter, Vol. 1 on a single called "Money Jane", which was released in Canada the previous year and featured Jully Black. The video for "Money Jane" won Best Rap Video at the 2001 MuchMusic Video Awards, and the song was nominated for Best Rap Recording at the 2001 Juno Awards.mvdbase.com - Baby Blue Soundcrew - &quot;Money Jane&quot;&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;The Envelope - LA Times&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Success: ''Dutty Rock'' and &quot;Gimme the Light&quot;In 2002, he began working extensively with a team of producers and choreographers from Caribbean-friendly Toronto, namely Jae Blaze and Blaze Entertainment and announced the release of his second album, Dutty Rock. Pushed by the success of the singles "Gimme the Light" and the Billboard Hot 100 topper, "Get Busy", the album was a worldwide success, eventually selling over six million copies. Simultaneously, Sean Paul was heard on Beyoncé's single "Baby Boy" and Blu Cantrell's "Breathe", both chart hits in 2003, and helping to push his reputation further still in the United States.During the period, he appeared on Punk'd, 106 &amp; Park, Sean Paul Respect, Making the Video ("Get Busy", "Gimme the Light", and "Like Glue") and his music videos have been broadcast on MTV and BET. Paul's biggest hits included "Get Busy", "Like Glue", "Gimme the Light", "Baby Boy", and "I'm Still in Love with You".''The Trinity'' (2005-2007)Sean Paul's third album The Trinity was released in on September 27, 2005. The album has a number of hits: "We Be Burnin'", "Ever Blazin'", "Give It up to Me", "Temperature" and "Never Gonna Be The Same".The video of "(When You Gonna) Give It up to Me" (featuring Keyshia Cole) was also featured in the movie "Step Up" in 2006.He was nominated for four awards at the 2006 Billboard Music Awards, including male artist of the year, rap artist of the year, hot 100 single of the year, and pop single of the year for his hit "Temperature".Music Awards Show Winners from Billboard.com - The Resource for Music Awards News&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; He also won an American music Award for "(When You Gonna) Give It Up To Me" beating Kanye West and Nick Lachey who were also nominated for the award.His song "Send It On" from "The Trinity" featured on the 2005 Vauxhall Corsa advert.Sean Paul often contributes his songs to various Riddim Driven albums (by VP Records). In March 2007, he returned to his native Jamaica to perform at the Cricket World Cup 2007 opening ceremony.''The Next Thing'' (2008-present)The newest Sean Paul album The Next Thing is to be released this year, the latest date in which he has shifted it. Up until now there have been four music videos: "Always On My Mind (featuring Daville)", "Give It To You (featuring Eve)", "Watch Them Roll" and "Back It Up". Other songs feature 50 Cent, Justin Timberlake, Pussycat Dolls, Akon, Snoop Dogg and Brandy.He has a new video with his brother Jigzazula and Farenheit. The song is called "Hit 'em" and he's featured with Estelle "Come Over" song.DiscographyAwardsright|thumb|World Music Awards in May 2007.2004: Grammy Award - Best Reggae Album (Dutty Rock)2005: Billboard Music Award - Selling Reggae Artist of the Year2005: Billboard Music Award - Top Selling Reggae Album of the Year (The Trinity)2006: Priya Awards - Best Hardman2006: American Music Awards- Favorite Pop/Rock Male Artist2006: Billboard Music Awards - Hot 100 single of the year "Temperature"2007: Jamaican Awards - Best male reggae singerTriviaSean Paul appears on the game Def Jam Fight for NY as part of Snoop Dogg's crew.ReferencesExternal linksSean Paul official siteVH1.com: Sean PaulMTV Sean Paul - Artist AreaCNN interview with Sean PaulSee alsoHenriques family Category:1973 births Category:Warner Music Group artists Category:Dancehall musicians Category:Grammy Award winners Category:Jamaican musicians Category:Multiracial musicians Category:Living people Category:Jamaican male singers Category:Reggae musicians Category:Jamaicans of Chinese descent Category:Jamaicans of Portuguese descentar:شون بول bg:Шон Пол da:Sean Paul de:Sean Paul es:Sean Paul eo:Sean Paul fa:شان پال fr:Sean Paul is:Sean Paul it:Sean Paul he:שון פול ka:შონ პოლი ht:Sean Paul lv:Šons Pols hu:Sean Paul nl:Sean Paul ja:ショーン・ポール no:Sean Paul pl:Sean Paul pt:Sean Paul ru:Энрикес, Шон Пол simple:Sean Paul fi:Sean Paul sv:Sean Paul tr:Sean Paul