  Tadrart Acacus () is a desert area in western Libya and is part of the Sahara. It is situated close to the Libyan city of Ghat. Tadrart means 'mountain' in the native language of the area (Tamahaq language). It has a particularly rich array of prehistoric rock art.The Acacus has a large variation of landscapes, from differently coloured sanddunes to arches, gorges, rocks and mountains. Major landmarks are the arches of Afzejare and Tin Khlega. Although this area is one of the most arid of the Sahara, there is vegetation, such as the callotropis plant.The area is known for its rock-art and was inscribed as a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1985 because of the importance of these paintings and carvings. The paintings date from 12,000 BC to 100 AD and reflect cultural and natural changes in the area.UNESCO Fact Sheet There are paintings and carvings of animals such as giraffes, elephants, ostriches and camels, but also of men and horses. Men are depicted in various daily life situations, for example while making music and dancing.   Acacus Rock Art Photo GalleryReferencesFurther readingMinozzi S., Manzi G., Ricci F., di Lernia S., and Borgognini Tarli S.M. (2003) "Nonalimentary tooth use in prehistory: an Example from Early Holocene in Central Sahara (Uan Muhuggiag, Tadrart Acacus, Libya)" American Journal of Physical Anthropology 120: pp.225-232;Mattingly, D. (2000) "Twelve thousand years of human adaptation in Fezzan (Libyan Sahara)" in G. Barker, Graeme and Gilbertson, D.D. (eds) The Archaeology of Drylands: Living at the Margin London, Routledge, pp. 160-79;Cremaschi, Mauro and Di Lernia, Savino (1999) "Holocene Climatic Changes and Cultural Dynamics in the Libyan Sahara" African Archaeological Review 16(4): pp. 211-238;Cremaschi, Mauro; Di Lernia, Savino; and Garcea, Elena A. A. (1998) "Some Insights on the Aterian in the Libyan Sahara: Chronology, Environment, and Archaeology" African Archaeological Review 15(4): pp.261-286;Cremaschi, Mauro and Di Lernia, Savino (eds.) (1998) Wadi Teshuinat: Palaeoenvironment and Prehistory in South-western Fezzan (Libyan Sahara) Florence, Insegna del Giglio;Wasylikowa, K. (1992) "Holocene flora of the Tadrart Acacus area, SW Libya, based on plant macrofossils from Uan Muhuggiag and Ti-n-Torha Two Caves archaeological sites" Origini 16: pp.125-159;Mori, F., (1960) Arte Preistorica del Sahara Libico Rome, De Luca;Mori, F., (1965) Tadrart Acacus, Turin, Einaudi;External linksUNESCO Fact SheetItalian-Libyan Archaeological Mission in the Acacus and MessakNatural Arches of the Akakus Plateau Category:Rock art Category:World Heritage Sites in Libya Category:Geography of Libya Category:Prehistoric art Category:Archaeological sites in Libya Category:Tuareg Category:Tourism in Libyaar:جبال أكاكوس de:Tadrart Acacus es:Tadrart Acacus eo:Tadrart Akakus fr:Tadrart Acacus it:Tadrart Acacus he:תדרארת אכאכוס nl:Tadrart Acacus ja:タドラルト・アカクス no:Tadrart Acacus pl:Tadrart Akakus pt:Tadrart Acacus fi:Tadrart Acacus sv:Klippmålningarna i Tadrart Acacus ta:தட்ரார்த் அகாக்கஸ்