 In chess, the endgame (or end game or ending) refers to the stage of the game when there are few pieces left on the board.The line between middlegame and endgame is often not clear, and may occur gradually or with the quick exchange of a few pairs of pieces. The endgame, however, tends to have different characteristics from the middlegame, and the players have correspondingly different strategic concerns. In particular, pawns become more important; endgames often revolve around attempting to promote a pawn by advancing it to the eighth rank. The king, which has to be protected in the middlegame owing to the threat of checkmate, becomes a strong piece in the endgame. It can be brought to the center of the board and be a useful attacking piece.Many people have composed endgame studies, endgame positions which are solved by finding a win for White when there is no obvious way of winning, or a draw when it seems White must lose.Endgames can be classified according to the type of pieces that remain. Some common types of endgames are discussed below.When does the endgame begin?An endgame is when there are only a few pieces left. With the usual system for chess piece point value, Speelman considers that endgames are positions in which each player has thirteen or fewer points in material (not counting the king). Alternatively, an endgame is a position in which the king can be used actively, but there are some famous exceptions to that . Minev characterizes endgames as positions having four or fewer pieces other than kings and pawns . Some authors consider endgames to be positions without queens while others consider a position to be an endgame when each player has less than a queen plus rook in material. Flear considers an endgame to be where each player has at most one piece (other than kings and pawns) and positions with more material where each player has at most two pieces to be "Not Quite an Endgame" (NQE), pronounced "nuckie" .Alburt and Krogius give three characteristics of an endgame: Endgames favor an aggressive kingPassed pawns increase greatly in importanceZugzwang is often a factor in endgames and rarely in other stages of the game.Common types of endgamesBasic checkmatesThese are positions in which one side has only a king and the other side has one or two pieces and can checkmate the opposing king, with the pieces working together with their king. In conjunction with its king, a queen or a rook can easily checkmate a lone king, but a single minor piece (a bishop or knight) can not. See Wikibooks - Chess/The Endgame for a demonstration of these two checkmates. Two bishops (plus their king) can easily checkmate a lone king, provided that the bishops move on opposite color squares. (Two or more bishops on the same color can not checkmate.) A bishop and knight (plus their king) can also checkmate a lone king, although the checkmate procedure is long (up to 33 moves with correct play) and is difficult for a player who does not know the correct technique.Two knights cannot force checkmate against a lone king (see Two knights endgame), but if the weaker side also has a pawn, checkmate is sometimes possible, because positions which would be stalemate without the pawn are not stalemate with the additional pawn. If the pawn is blocked by a knight on or behind the Troitzky line, the knights have a long theoretical win. There are some other positions when the pawn is past the Troitzky line in which the knights can force checkmate, but the procedure is long and difficult. In either case, in competition the fifty move rule will often result in the game being drawn first. (While there is a board position that allows two knights to checkmate a lone king, such requires a careless move by the weaker side to execute; he cannot be driven into the corner.)King and pawn endingsKing and pawn endgames involve only kings and pawns on one or both sides. Cecil Purdy said "Pawn endings are to chess as putting is to golf."Getting a passed pawn is crucial (a passed pawn is one which does not have an opposing pawn on its file or on adjacent files on its way to promotion). Nimzovich once said that a passed pawn has a "lust to expand". An ''outside passed pawn'' is particularly deadly. The point of this is a decoy—while the defending king is preventing it from queening, the attacking king wins pawns on the other side.''Opposition'' is an important technique that is used to gain an advantage. When two kings are in opposition, they are on the same file (or rank) with an empty square separating them. The player having the move loses the opposition. He must move his king and allow the opponent's king to advance. Note however that the opposition is a means to an end, which is penetration into the enemy position. If the attacker can penetrate without the opposition, he should do so. The tactics of triangulation and zugzwang as well as the theory of corresponding squares are often decisive.====King and pawn versus king====  This is one of the most basic endgames. A draw results if the defending king can reach the square in front of the pawn or the square in front of that (or capture the pawn). If the attacking king can prevent that, the king will assist the pawn in being promoted to a queen or rook, and checkmate can be achieved.Knight and pawn endingsKnight and pawn endgames feature clever maneuvering by the knights to capture opponent pawns. While a knight is poor at chasing a passed pawn, it is the ideal piece to block a passed pawn. Knights cannot lose a tempo, so knight and pawn endgames have much in common with king and pawn endgames. As a result, Mikhail Botvinnik stated that “a knight ending is really a pawn ending.” An outside passed pawn can outweigh a protected passed central pawn, unlike king and pawn endgames. A knight blockading a protected passed pawn attacks the protector, while the knight blockading an outside passed pawn is somewhat out of action.====Knight and pawn versus knight==== This is generally a draw since the knight can be sacrificed for the pawn, however the king and knight must be covering squares in the pawn's path. If the pawn reaches the seventh rank and is supported by its king and knight, it usually promotes and wins .Bishop and pawn endingsBishop and pawn endgames come in two distinctly different variants. If the opposing bishops go on the same color of square, the mobility of the bishops is a crucial factor. A ''bad bishop'' is one that is hemmed in by pawns of its own color, and has the burden of defending them.The diagram on the right, from Molnar-Nagy, Hungary 1966, illustrates the concepts of good bishop versus bad bishop, opposition, zugzwang, and outside passed pawn. White wins with 1.e6! (vacating e5 for his king) Bxe6 2.Bc2! Bf7 3.Be4! Be8 4.Ke5! Seizing the opposition (i.e. the kings are two orthogonal squares apart, with the other player on move) and placing Black in zugzwang—he must either move his king, allowing White's king to penetrate, or his bishop, allowing a decisive incursion by White's bishop. 4...Bd7 5.Bxg6! ====Bishop and pawn versus bishop on the same color====  Two rules given by Luigi Centurini apply:The game is a draw if the black king can reach any square in front of the pawn that is not of the color of the bishop.If the defending king is behind the pawn and the attacking king is near the pawn, the defender can draw only if his king is attacking the pawn, he has the opposition, and his bishop can move on two diagonals that have at least two squares each .Bishops on opposite colorsEndings with bishops of opposite color, meaning that one bishop works on the light squares, the other one working on dark squares, are notorious for their drawish character. Many players in a poor position have saved themselves from a loss by trading down to such an endgame. They are often drawn even when one side has a two pawn advantage since the weaker side can create a blockade on the squares which his bishop operates on. Interestingly, the weaker side should often try to make his bishop ''bad'' by placing his pawns on the same color of his bishop in order to defend his remaining pawns, thereby creating an impregnable fortress.Bishop versus knight endings (with pawns)Current theory is that bishops are better than knights about 60 percent of the time, in the middlegame and endgame. The more symmetrical the pawns are (i.e. Black's pawns are on the same files as White's pawns), the better it is for the knight. The knight is best suited at an outpost in the center whereas the bishop is strongest when it can attack targets on both sides of the board or a series of squares of the same color .Fine and Benko  give four conclusions:In general the bishop is better than the knight.When there is a material advantage, the difference between the bishop and knight is not very important. However, the bishop usually wins more easily than the knight.If the material is even, the position should be drawn. However, the bishop can exploit positional advantages more efficiently.When most of the pawns are on the same color as the bishop (i.e. a bad bishop), the knight is better.====Bishop and pawn versus knight==== This is a draw if the defending king is in front of the pawn or sufficiently close. The defending king can occupy a square in front of the pawn of the opposite color as the bishop and cannot be driven away. Otherwise the attacker can win .====Knight and pawn versus bishop==== This is a draw if the defending king is in front of the pawn or sufficiently near. The bishop is kept on a diagonal that the pawn must cross and the knight cannot both block the bishop and drive the defending king away. Otherwise the attacker can win .Rook and pawn endingsRook and pawn endgames are often drawn in spite of one side having an extra pawn. (In some cases, two extra pawns are not enough to win.) An extra pawn is harder to convert to a win in a rook and pawn endgame than any other type of endgame except a bishop endgame with bishops on opposite colors. Rook endings are probably the deepest and most well studied endgames. They are a common type of endgame in practice, occurring in about 10 percent of all games (including ones that do not reach an endgame) .Three rules of thumb regarding rooks are worth noting:Rooks should almost always be placed behind passed pawns, whether one's own or the opponent's (the Tarrasch rule). A notable exception is in the ending of a rook and pawn versus a rook, if the pawn is not too far advanced. In that case, the best place for the opposing rook is in front of the pawn.Rooks are very poor defenders relative to their attacking strength. So it is often good to sacrifice a pawn for activity. This is especially so in the following caseA rook on the seventh rank can wreak mayhem among the opponent's pawns. The power of a rook on the seventh rank is not confined to the endgame. The classic example is Capablanca–Tartakower, New York 1924 (see annotated game without diagrams or Java board)An important winning position in the rook and pawn versus rook endgame is the so-called Lucena position. If the side with the pawn can reach the Lucena position, he wins. However, there are several important drawing techniques such as the Philidor position, the back rank defense (rook on the first rank, for rook pawns and knight pawns only), the frontal defense, and the short side defense. A general rule is that if the weaker side's king can get to the queening square of the pawn, the game is a draw and otherwise it is a win, but there are many exceptions.====Rook and pawn versus rook====  Generally (but not always), if the defending king can reach the queening square of the pawn the game is a draw (see Philidor position), otherwise the attacker usually wins (if it is not a rook pawn). The winning procedure can be very difficult and some positions require more than sixty moves to win, so the fifty move rule comes into play. If the attacking rook is two files from the pawn and the defending king is cut off on the other side, the attacker normally wins (with a few exceptions) .The most difficult case of a rook and pawn versus a rook is when the attacking rook is one file over from the pawn and the defending king is cut off on the other side. Siegbert Tarrasch gave the following rules for this case: "For a player defending against a pawn on the fifth or even sixth ranks to obtain a draw, even after his king has been forced off the queening square, the following conditions must obtain: The file on which the pawn stands divides the board into two unequal parts. The defending rook must stand in the longer part and give checks from the flank at the greatest possible distance from the attacking king. Nothing less than a distance of three files makes it possible for the rook to keep on giving check. Otherwise it would ultimately be attacked by the king. The defending king must stand on the smaller part of the board." See the short side defense at Rook and pawn versus rook endgame.Quotation"All rook and pawn endings are drawn."The context of this quote shows it is a comment on the fact that a small advantage in a rook and pawn endgame is less likely to be converted into a win. This quotation has variously been attributed to Savielly Tartakower and to Siegbert Tarrasch. Writers Victor Korchnoi , John Emms , and James Howell  attribute the quote to Tartakower, whereas Mark Dvoretsky , Andy Soltis , and Karsten Müller attribute it to Tarrasch. Attributing the quote to Tarrasch may be a result of confusion between this quote and the Tarrasch rule concerning rooks. The source of the quote is currently unresolved.Winter, Edward, &quot;Rook endgames&quot; - Chess Notes, Number 5498 Queen and pawn endingsIn Queen and pawn endings, passed pawns have paramount importance, because the queen can escort it to the queening square alone. The advancement of the passed pawn outweighs the number of pawns. The defender must resort to perpetual check. These endings are frequently extremely long affairs. For an example of a Queen and pawn endgame see Kasparov versus The World – Kasparov won although he had fewer pawns because his was more advanced. For the ending with a queen versus a pawn, see Queen versus pawn endgame.====Queen and pawn versus queen==== This combination is a win less frequently than the equivalent ending with rooks, and it is very difficult to play. According to Fine and Benko, this ending is a draw unless the pawn is a bishop pawn or a central pawn (i.e. king pawn or queen pawn) and the pawn is in the seventh rank and is supported by its king. If the defending king can get in front of the pawn, the game is a draw; otherwise it is best for the defender to keep his king far away from the pawn. The defender should keep checking until he runs out of check, and then pin the pawn . Based on computer analysis, Müller and Lamprecht give a different description. According to them, normally the defending king needs to be in front of the pawn. A rook pawn or knight pawn is a theoretical draw if the defending king is in front or near the pawn or if the king is in the opposite corner. A knight pawn has more practical winning chances than a rook pawn. A bishop pawn or central pawn is a win if the defending king is not in front of the pawn. A bishop pawn has better winning chances than a central pawn . John Nunn states that analysis since Fine's initial work (in 1941) has shown that there are many more winning positions than were known at that time (ignoring the fifty move rule in some cases) . See cross-check#Botvinnik vs. Minev game for an example.Edmar Mednis gives this breakdown when the defending king is not able to help: A bishop pawn is the best pawn to have. It is relatively easy to advance and is a win once it reaches the seventh rank.A central pawn wins if it reaches the seventh rank, but it is difficult to get it there. Even if the pawn reaches the sixth rank, the position is usually a draw.A knight pawn is relatively easy to get to the seventh rank, but the position may be a theoretical draw.Positions with rook pawns are theoretical draws, but in practice it may be difficult to draw.Endings with no pawns Besides the basic checkmates, there are other endings with no pawns. They do not occur very often in practice.Positions with a material imbalanceA rook is worth roughly two pawns plus a bishop or a knight. A bishop and knight are worth roughly a rook and a pawn, and a queen is worth a rook, a ''minor piece'' (bishop or knight) and a pawn (see chess piece point value). Three pawns are often enough to win against a minor piece, but two pawns rarely are.However, with rooks on the board, the bishop often outweighs the pawns. This is because the bishop defends against enemy rook attacks, while the bishop's own rook attacks enemy pawns and reduces the enemy rook to passivity. This relates to Rule 2 with rooks (above).A bishop is usually worth more than a knight. A bishop is especially valuable when there are pawns on both wings of the board, since it can intercept them quickly.General considerationsIn general, the player with a material advantage tries to exchange pieces and reach the endgame. In the endgame, the player with a material advantage should usually try to exchange pieces but avoid the exchange of pawns. There are some exceptions to this: (1) endings in which both sides have two rooks plus pawns—the player with more pawns has better winning chances if a pair of rooks are not exchanged, and (2) bishops on opposite color with other pieces—the stronger side should avoid exchanging the other pieces.In the endgame, it is better for the player with more pawns to avoid too many pawn exchanges, because they should be won for nothing. Also, endings with pawns on both sides of the board are much easier to win. A king and pawn endgame with an outside passed pawn should be a far easier win than a middlegame a rook ahead.With the recent growth of computer chess, an interesting development has been the creation of endgame databases which are tables of stored positions calculated by retrograde analysis (such a database is called an endgame tablebase). A program which incorporates knowledge from such a database is able to play perfect chess on reaching any position in the database.Effect of tablebases on endgame theoryEndgame tablebases have made some minor corrections to historical endgame analysis, but they have made some more significant changes to endgame theory too. (The fifty-move rule is not taken into account in these studies.) Major changes to endgame theory as a result of tablebases include :Queen versus rook (see Philidor position#Queen versus rook). There are two changes here enabling the rook to put up a better defense, but the queen still wins. (a) People usually opt for a second-rank defense with the rook on the second rank and the king behind it (or symmetrical positions on the other edges of the board). Tablebases show that a third-rank defense takes a while to breach, and is difficult for a human to do. (b) People had assumed that the rook needs to stay as close to the king for as long as possible, but tablebases show that it is best to move the rook away from the king at some earlier point .Queen and pawn versus queen. Tablebases have shown that this can be won in many more positions than was thought, but the logic of the moves is presently beyond human understanding .Queen versus two bishops. This was thought to be a draw due to the existence of a drawing fortress position, but the queen can prevent the bishops from getting to the fortress and win most of the time. However, it can take up to 71 moves .Queen versus two knights. This was thought to be a draw and generally it is, but the queen has more winning positions than was previously thought. Also, many analysts gave a position (see diagram) that they thought was a draw but it is actually a win for the queen . In the diagram, white checkmates in 43 moves, starting with 1. Qc7 (the only winning move). Note that Nunn says "The general result is undoubtedly a draw, but here are many losing positions, some of them very lengthy." On the other hand, Batsford Chess Endings states that 89.7 percent of the starting positions are wins for the queen . However, these percentages can be misleading, and most "general results" are based on the analysis of grandmasters using the tablebase data , . For instance, although nearly 90 percent of all of these positions are wins for the queen, it is generally a draw if the king is not separated from the knights and they are on reasonable squares . Two bishops versus a knight. This was thought to be a draw but the bishops generally win. However, it takes up to 66 moves. The position in the diagram was thought to be a draw for over one hundred years, but tablebases show that White wins in 45 moves. All of the long wins go through this type of semi-fortress position. It takes several moves to force Black out of the temporary fortress in the corner; then precise play with the bishops prevents Black from forming the temporary fortress in another corner .Queen and bishop versus two rooks. This was thought to be a draw but the queen and bishop usually win. It takes up to 84 moves .Rook and bishop versus bishop and knight, bishops on opposite colors. This was thought to be a draw but the rook and bishop generally win. It takes up to 98 moves .Longest forced win    In October 2005, Marc Bourzutschky and Yakov Konoval announced that a position in the ending of a king, two rooks and a knight versus a king and two rooks requires 290 moves to convert to a simpler winning endgame. This type of ending is thought to be a draw in general. The old record was 243 moves from a position in a rook and knight versus two knights endgame, discovered by Lewis Stiller in 1991. (Endings of a rook and knight versus two knights are generally draws.) The fifty move rule is ignored in the calculation of these results and lengths.On March 10, 2006 Marc Bourzutschky and Yakov Konoval announced a new record for the longest endgame, requiring 330 moves to conversion to a simpler ending. In May 2006 a record-shattering 517-move endgame was announced. Mark Bourzutschky found it using a program written by Yakov Konoval. Black's first move is 1. ... Rd7+ and White wins the rook in 517 moves (see diagram).Endgame classificationEndgames can be classified by the material on the board. The standard classification system lists each player's material, including the kings, in the following order: king, queen, bishops, knights, rooks, pawn. Each piece is designated by its algebraic symbol.For example, if White has a king and pawn, and Black has only a king, the endgame is classified KPK. If White has bishop and knight, and Black has a rook, the endgame is classified KBNKR. Note that KNBKR would be incorrect; bishops come before knights.In positions with two or more bishops on the board, a "bishop signature" may be added to clarify the relationship between the bishops. Two methods have been used. The informal method is to designate one color of squares as "x" and the other color as "y". An endgame of KBPKB can be written KBPKB x-y if the bishops are opposite colored, or KBPKB x-x if the bishops are same-colored. The more formal method is to use a four digit suffix of the form abcd:a = number of White light-squared bishopsb = number of White dark-squared bishopsc = number of Black light squared bishopsd = number of Black dark-squared bishopsThus, the aforementioned endgame can be written KBPKB_1001 for opposite-color bishops, and KBPKB_1010 for same-color bishops.GBR code is an alternative method of endgame classification.Table of the most common endingsThe table below lists the most common endings in actual games by percentage (percentage of games, not percentage of endings. Generally pawns go along with the pieces.) PercentPieces8.45Rook vs. rook6.76Rook & bishop vs. rook & knight3.45Two rooks versus two rooks3.37Rook & bishop vs. rook & bishop (same color)3.29Bishop vs. knight3.09Rook & knight vs. rook & knight2.87King & pawns vs. king (and pawns)1.92Rook & bishop vs. rook & bishop (opposite color)1.87Queen vs. queen1.77Rook & bishop vs. rook1.65Bishop vs. bishop (same color)1.56Knight vs. knight1.51Rook vs. bishop1.42Rook & knight vs. rook1.11Bishop vs. bishop (opposite color)1.01Bishop vs. pawns|PercentPieces0.97Rook vs. knight0.92Knight vs. pawns0.90Queen & minor piece vs. queen0.75Rook vs. pawns0.69Queen vs. rook & minor piece0.67Rook & pawn vs. rook0.56Rook & two pawns vs. rook0.42Queen vs. pawns0.40Queen vs. rook0.31Queen vs. two rooks0.23King & one pawn vs. king0.17Queen vs. minor piece0.09Queen & one pawn vs. queen0.08Queen vs. two minor pieces0.02Bishop & knight vs. king0.01Queen vs. three minor pieces|Quotations"In order to improve your game you must study the endgame before anything else; for, whereas the endings can be studied and mastered by themselves, the middlegame and the opening must be studied in relation to the endgame." (Emphasis in original.) "... the endgame is as important as the opening and middlegame ... three of the five losses sustained by Bronstein in his drawn ... match with Botvinnik in 1951 were caused by weak endgame play." "Studying the opening is just memorizing moves and hoping for traps, but studying the endgame is chess." - Joshua WaitzkinBibliographyThere are many books on endgames, see Chess endgame literature for a large list and the history. Some of the most popular current ones are:Winning Chess Endings, by Yasser Seirawan, 2003, Everyman Chess. ISBN 1-85744-348-9. A good introductory book.Just the Facts!: Winning Endgame Knowledge in One Volume, Lev Alburt and Nikolai Krogius, 2000, Newmarket Press. ISBN 1-889323-15-2. A good introductory book.Essential Chess Endings: the Tournament Player's Guide, by James Howell, 1997, Batsford. ISBN 0-7134-8189-7. A small but comprehensive book.Grandmaster Secrets: Endings, by Andrew Soltis, 1997, 2003, Thinker's Press, ISBN 0-938650-66-1. An elementary book.Pandolfini's Endgame Course, by Bruce Pandolfini, 1988, Fireside, ISBN 0-671-65688-0. Many short elementary endgame lessons.Fundamental Chess Endings, by Karsten Müller and Frank Lamprecht, 2001, Gambit Publications. ISBN 1-901983-53-6. Highly regarded - comprehensive and modern.Basic Chess Endings, by Reuben Fine and Pal Benko, 1941, 2003, McKay. ISBN 0-8129-3493-8. The 1941 edition by Fine was the first of the modern endgame books in English. It was recently revised by Benko.Dvoretsky's Endgame Manual, second edition, by Mark Dvoretsky, 2006, Russel Enterprises. ISBN 1-888690-28-3. A modern manual book by a noted chess teacher.Silman's Complete Endgame Course: From Beginner To Master, Jeremy Silman, 2007, Siles Press, ISBN 1-890085-10-3. Has a unique approach, it presents material in order of difficulty and the need to know of various classes of players. It starts with material for the absolute beginner and progresses up to master level material.Endgame articles Chess endgame literatureCochrane DefenseEndgame tablebaseKing and pawn versus king endgameLucena positionOpposite colored bishops endgamePawnless chess endgamesPhilidor positionQueen versus pawn endgameRéti endgame studyRook and pawn versus rook endgameTarrasch ruleTwo knights endgameWrong rook pawnSee alsoCheckmateFortress (chess)Chess terminologyChess openingChess middlegameChess theoryNotesReferencesFurther readingExternal linksInteractive Endgame Simulatorendgame lessonsStiller's monsters128 Wins with K+N+P vs. K+N+P Endgames1650 Wins with K+P vs. K+P Endgames227 Wins with KQP vs. KQP Endgames1798 Wins with K+R+P vs. K+R+P Endgames65 Wins with K+B+P vs. K+B+P Endgames330 move endgame517 move endgameItem 316 is the 517 move endgameBasic Endgame Mates* Category:Chess terms Category:Chess theorycs:Šachová koncovka de:Endspiel (Schach) es:Final (ajedrez) fr:Finale (jeu d'échecs) it:Finale (scacchi) he:הכרעות בשחמט lt:Endšpilis nl:Eindspel (schaken) no:Sluttspill pl:Gra końcowa ru:Эндшпиль sk:Koncová hra sl:Šahovska končnica fi:Loppupeli uk:Ендшпіль