 István Garancsi | chairman =  Balázs Bérczy | manager =  György Mezey | coach =  László Disztl | league = Soproni Liga (NB1) | season = 2007-08 | position = 5th| pattern_la1 = _navystripes
| pattern_b1  = _redstripes
| pattern_ra1 = 
| leftarm1    = 1F24B4
| body1       = 1F24B4
| rightarm1   = 1F24B4
| shorts1     = 1F24B4
| socks1      = 1F24B4
| pattern_la2=
| pattern_b2=
| pattern_ra2=
| leftarm2=FFFFFF
| body2=FFFFFF
| rightarm2=FFFFFF 
| shorts2=1F24B4
| socks2=FFFFFF
|FC Fehérvár is a Hungarian football (soccer) club, based in Székesfehérvár. The club was founded in 1941 and its colours are blue and red. Until 2006 the club was known as Videoton Székesfehérvár, when it was sponsored by the electrical goods manufacturer Videoton. FC Fehérvár plays its home matches in the Sóstói Stadion. The club won the Hungarian Cup in 2006.As Videoton Székesfehérvár the club caught international attention when it reached UEFA Cup final in 1985 after a remarkable campaign. Videoton overcame Dukla Praha (1-0/0-0), Paris Saint-Germain FC (4-2/1-0), FK Partizan (0-2/5-0), Manchester United (0-1/1-0) and FK Željezničar (3-1/1-2). After this Fehérvár lost the first leg of the final at home 0-3 to Real Madrid, but won return match at the Santiago Bernabéu 1-0.In 2006 FC Fehérvár won the Hungarian Cup defeating Vasas SC in the penalty shoot-out, after the match had finished 2-2 after extra time.In 2007 FC Fehérvár won the first Liga Cup defeting DVTK-Borsodi in 4-2 aggregate in two match(Home 3-0; Away 1-2).Németh]], Fehér, Vadász, Dajic, Csobánki , Lattenstein Current squadJuly 29th, 2008       ©                         On loan Tibor Baranyai - to  Ferencvárosi TC Dávid Meggyes - to  Integrál-DAC Dávid Disztl - to  FC Felcsut Atilla Fekete - to  Kaposvölgye Krisztián Kovács - to  Tata Milán Pálfi - to  Balatonlelle Norbert Nemes - to  Kispest István Janovics - to  Soroksár Attila Mészáros - to  DabasIn the system Ádám Horváth Gergő Kalas József KakasHonoursUEFA Cup: (runners up) (as Videoton)1984/85Final: Videoton 0 - 3 Real MadridFinal: Real Madrid 0 - 1 VideotonHungarian Cup: 12006Hungarian Liga Cup (Autumn): 12007Hungarian Liga Cup Super Final: 12008Famous playersSelected former coaches Mihály LantosHistoryFrom the Szekesfehervari Vadasztoltenygyar SK to Videonton FC Fehervar.The Szekesfehervari Vadasztoltenygyar SK was founded in 1941 by the Szekesfehervar defense manufacturing company Szekesfehervari Vadasztoltenygyar. In the early years the team was made up of workers of the factory. The team first entered the Fejer County Championship in 1942/43. They won their very first match against the Mori Banyasz (6-4) and then went on to win the championship. In 1948 the club was broken up to three teams, with one team playing in the NB III (Third Division of the National Championship), one in the County Championship and the third one in the Second division of the County Championship. In 1950 the workers of the factory assembled their own team in the hope of achieving better results, and the club was renamed Vadasztoltenygyari Vasas on March 10. On the January 3, 1956 the five Vasas shop-floors joined forces in a unified team building on this Vadasztoltenygyar team. In that season the team won the County Championship with a very big margin, and (after winning next-year’s County Championship Winners Trophy) qualified to play in the second Division of the National Championship from the 1957/58 season. After this point, the team only played in National Championships (NB I, NB II, NB III).After this success it was always the goal to play in the top league of Hungary. The first opportunity presented itself only a few years later. In the first part of the 1961/62 season the team had 13 wins and only 1 draw and 1 defeat and was in first place, but the second half wasn’t so great and they finished only in third position not qualifying for the first division. At last, in 1967 the dream came true: with two home matches remaining, only two points were needed for the 1st division. The results of last 2 matches made sure that we qualify for the first division:VT VASAS – Ganz Mavag 5 – 1 , VT VASAS – Kecskemet 3 – 0 .On the 22nd of January in 1968 it was decided that the team would be called VIDEOTON SC from then on. Our first year in the top league was not our best. The team had 9 wins and 18 losses, finishing in the fifteenth place and seeing relegation. Fortunately in 1969 Videoton won the second division and qualified for the first division again! Striker Laszlo Karsai scored at least one goal for 16 teams of the 17, altogether scoring 34 goals in 32 matches. After 1970 the team consolidated its position in the first division by finishing tenth, seventh, fifth, fourth and again fifth in the next 5 seasons.Then in the 1975/76 season the team achieved the best position in our history by finishing in the 2nd place. The 1st place was so close, and we nearly celebrated a champion team! The championship was only lost in the last match against Ferencvaros in Budapest on the Ulloi street with some help by the referee. The next season wasn’t so glorious, the team finished only in 6th position. The good performances were attained with the help of coach Ferenc Kovacs, who said good-bye after this season. In the next years the team produced some not so outstanding results, although they nearly finished in the top three on four occasions. In 1982 the team played in the final of the Hungarian National Cup, but unfortunately they were defeated by Ujpesti Dozsa(0-2) in the city of Szekszard. Then in the 1982/83 season the team scared their fans by avoiding relegation only on goal ratio.In the next year Ferenc Kovacs was back and the team’s golden-age started. The team finished 3rd place with the same number of points as Raba-ETO (the team finishing second), because of an inferior head-to-head performance against that team. In this season Jozsef Szabo was the top goal-scorer in the 1st division with 19 goals. On the 18th of September in 1985 the UEFA-Cup success-story started. Here are the results that everyone "Vidi" fan knows by heart:Videoton – Dukla Praha : 1-0 ; 0-0Paris St. Germain – Videoton : 2-'4' ; (0-2) The second match was interrupted ; 0-1Videoton – Partizan Beograd : 5-0 ; 0-2Manchester United - Videoton : 1-0 ; 0-'1' : Videoton wins with penaltiesVideoton – Zeljeznicar : 3'''-1 ; '''1-2Videoton – Real Madrid : 0-3 ; 1-0In the UEFA Cup Final’s first match in Szekesfehervar there were 40,000 fan, who were singing and cheering for the team the entire match. At the end of the match the team received a standing ovation despite the defeat. In Madrid 90,000 people saw our victory with Lajos Majer scoring the only goal of the encounter. In the Championship we finished in the 3rd place again because of our modest showing at home, but the UEFA Cup compensated the fans.Unfortunately, in the following seasons the team could not repeat this performance and achieved 6th, 14th and 11th places. In the 1988/89 season the team hired a new coach, Gabor Kaszas and a new series of success started. In the winter Vidi played in the NEHRU Cup in India, winning the trophy over many National Olympic Teams. The Hungarian Championship’s rule was very special: after every draw in the season teams took penalties. This system was the worst possible for Videoton. Every other rule system would have given Videoton’s 1st place, but with this one „Vidi” finished only 4th. This season’s good news for us that Zoltan Csucsanszky was elected the best player of the year and Tamas Petres was the top goal-scorer. The next season was overshadowed by Gabor Kaszas's sudden death. The team collapsed, and reached only the 9th place.In the next season the team was called Videoton Waltham (01. July 1991.) and the team improved only 1 position. In the 1991/92 season after 2 defeats our players achieved a unique winning streak: they went undefeated for 16 matches. But after a 4th place finish in the winter break, the team only finished in the 7th place with 32 points. This season was the first for the 18 year old striker Ferenc Horvath who scored 8 goals but this season was Salloi’s best who scored 14 times. The season’s most memorable game was played in Ujpest, where we won 4-1 with a smashing display.In the 1992/93 season we finished in the 6th place. There were two matches to remember: „Vidi” – FTC 3-2 (0-2 in the half time) with 18,000 supporters. In this match we scored all of the 3 goals within 5 minutes. Each newspaper’s wrote: Ham, Ham, Waltham! (this time the team was called Videoton FC Waltham.) The other match was: „Vidi” – Ujpest 4-1. In this match Salloi scored 4 goals contributing to his being elected the player of the year. The next season is completely unremarkable („Vidi” finished 9th) in terms of results on the soccer field, but is remembered, because on November 10 the team was renamed to Parmalat FC. This name did not see a lot of glory. The most memorable match was against „Fradi” (Ferencvaros), where we won 3-1 with Ferenc Horvath’s 3 goals. After this match the president (dr. Otto Bravacz) of the club resigned, followed by the coach (Gabor Hartyani). The ex-president was later re-elected. The new coach Laszlo Kiss was eager to succeed, but had many conflicts with the players and the officials of the club.In the 1994/95 season we started with coach Imre Jenei who had been the coach of the national team just before coming to Fehervar. After being unsuccessful, he resigned after only 6 matches. The next coach, Karoly Szabo inherited an almost hopeless situation. But by winning 6 games of the last 10, the team reached at least the classification zone. The classification matches were played against Salgotarjan and we won in two very close matches (1-0 and 2-1). During the season, Zoran Kuntic scored 11 goals and played an important role in our avoiding relegation from the 1st division.We started the next season with a new coach (Csongradi), but with results similar to the previous year: we were again in the last position before the the 2nd leg of the championship. In the winter the team was renamed to Fehervar 96 PFC and a lot of new players joined. They were Takacs, Korsos, Miriuta, Peto and Dulic. But we had to play classification games again, a thriller against Diosgyor Miskolc. We won the first match with a 2-1 result, while in the second game (which was in Miskolc) we were defeated by the same margin. In the following extra-time Takacs scored and therefore we were not relagated this time either.We started the 1996/97 season with new coaches (Kustudic-Sekulic) and were called Videoton again. We had a good start but our performance was weaker and weaker until we were again threatened by relegation at the start of the 2nd part of the Championship. Then Laszlo Disztl came and we finished in the 8th place. That was a secure season and we did not have to endure a heart attack in the last rounds. We were not anticipating what would happen in the next season...In 1997/98 we shared our stadium with a local rival. This season we started well, but in the winter some players left to Ujpest and there was also a new coach. In the spring Attila Vago and his gang came from Szeged, causing near disaster. He left after only 6 matches, when we were in the relegation zone. Then again came Ferenc Csongradi the rescuer. In this year we needed luck even to reach the classification zone. That was the worst „Vidi” we have ever seen. The Bekescsaba team, which was relegated in the end of the season humiliated us with a 4-0 result. In the classification game we played with MATAV Sopron who took their winning for granted but they must have been disappointed, because we won over them with 2-1 and 3-0. After these results the fans celebrated by throwing Csongradi in the air.In the summer we had a new president, a lawyer Laszlo Berces arrived. A new team was formed, but we weren’t in any better situation than before. We won only 2 games of the 10 played. Csongradi was gone and Verebes arrived. After this change the team played better, but it looked like we were damned. We only received 1 point of the possible 21. We managed that draw after being 0-4 behind against Dunaferr. For the spring (2nd part of the Championship) we bought 10 new players. The defense became better, but we were not able to score enough goals. We already thought that we were safe, but suddenly Siofok became stronger and after 29 years we were relegated. We got relegated by a 1 goal difference (and equal number of points) showing how unfortunate the entire season had been. But we deserved this relegation after so many lucky seasons and a much needed reformation of the team has started.A new coach, Janos Csank came and a completely new team started the 1999/2000 season in the second division. No opponent could beat us for a very long time. In the 1st part of the Second Division Championship we had only 2 draws (and 15 wins), while in the second part we had 1 defeat and 16 wins. We won the championship already seven rounds before the end and got promoted very easily.In the 2000/01 season Csongradi came again as the coach, because his old team was dissolved. This season was organized in a special way. There were 2 rounds, because the number of clubs changed from 18 to 12 from the next season. We qualified for the second round where only the top 12 teams played. We played superb for this qualification stage, missing out on the 1st position only because of a five minute lapse of attention against Gyor. Then in the 2nd stage we had a losing streak and therefore we again changed our coach. Peter Varhidi arrived. We finished in the 8th position. After 19 years we played in the Hungarian Cup Final but we were defeated by the Debreceni VSC (2-5). In this year we played in the Intertoto Cup but were defeated by Dupnica in the 1st round.After the next season’s 1st part Bertalan Bicskei came and Varhidi was gone. We played well on occasions – we won over the Gyor in their home by four goals – but couldn’t produce good results on a consistent basis.New Championship, new trainer. Csank came again, but even a very good coach cannot help, if a team does not play well. We reached the 8th place. Then Aurel Csertoi arrived for the coach position. In the 1st half of the season we lost the name Videoton, because the corporation did not want to take part in the club’s inner war. In the spring of 2005 the financial future of Szekesefehervar’s professional futball was questioned by a gaping budget deficit. The Videoton Barati Kor (Videoton Fan Club) organized several demonstrations, and offered to buy the club’s majority business share. Their action was successful inasmuch that the club was kept alive, but the Fan Club was not allowed to buy the shares they were aiming for. Many important players left and the coach selected young players for the team. With a great team spirit and an enormous effort, the young team reached an amazing 8th place, showing signs of great prospect.The 2005/06 season brought the success that Fehervar fans were waiting for so long. In this season we had the chance for the Championship Trophy up until 2 rounds before the end. Eventually, we finished in third position, the first time on the podium in 21 years! As a result the team could play in the UEFA Cup in the 2006/07 season. The team also won the Hungarian Cup for the first time in the club’s history by defeating VASAS (2-2 / by penalty shoot-out).LinksOfficial Club Website  ReferencesCategory:Hungarian football clubs Category:Football (soccer) clubs established in 1941bs:FK Fehérvár ca:FC Fehérvár de:FC Fehérvár es:FC Fehérvár fr:FC Fehérvár it:FC Fehérvár lt:Videoton FC Fehérvár hu:FC Fehérvár nl:FC Fehérvár pl:Fehérvár Székesfehérvár sr:ФК Фехервар sv:Videoton FC Fehérvár tr:FC Fehérvár