Clara Petacci (Claretta Petacci) (28 February 1912 &ndash; 28 April 1945) was an upper class Roman who became Italian dictator Benito Mussolini's mistress. Her father had been the personal physician to the Pope. She was twenty-nine years younger than Mussolini.Petacci was with Mussolini to the end. On 27 April 1945, when a convoy of escaping Italian Social Republic members, including Mussolini, was captured by Communist partisans, it is said that Petacci was offered the opportunity to go unmolested, but there is no solid evidence for this. On 28 April, she and Mussolini were taken to Mezzagra where she and the Duce were shot. On the following day, 29 April, Mussolini and Petacci's bodies were taken to the Piazzale Loreto in Milan and hanged upside down in front of an Esso petrol station. The bodies were photographed as a crowd vented their rage upon them.Many photographs show the bodies of Mussolini and Petacci hanging between four other bodies. Mussolini and Petacci are together in the middle with two bodies hanging to either side of the couple. However, this photograph taken from the rear shows three bodies hanging on Mussolini's side to the right of the couple as seen from the rear. This indicates that Mussolini and Petacci were hanged upside down with five others at the petrol station.MiscellaneousClara Petacci's sister was actress Miriam di San Servolo (28 February 1923 &ndash; 24 May 1991) , also known as Miriam Petacci or Miriam Day.Clara Petacci's brother, Marcello Petacci, was captured with Mussolini and Petacci. But, rather than being executed in Dongo, he was shot trying to escape.The American musician Scott Walker recorded a song about Petacci called "Clara" on his 2006 album The Drift.See alsoBenito MussoliniMiriam di San ServoloMargherita Sarfatti, one of Mussolini's earlier mistressesFurther readingNicholas Farrell, Mussolini: A New Life (Phoenix Press, London, 2003) ISBN 1-84212-123-5Ray Moseley, Mussolini: The Last 600 Days of '''Il Duce''' (Taylor Trade Publishing, Dallas, 2004) ISBN 1-58979-095-2Rudolph S. Daldin "The Last Centurion" Volumes I&II ISBN 0-921447-34-5 www.benito-mussolini.com or www.Daldin5.comExternal links Category:20th century Italian people Category:Contemporary Italian history Category:Deaths by firearm in Italy Category:People executed by firing squad Category:1912 births Category:1945 deaths Category:Executed Italian women Category:20th century executionsbg:Кларета Петачи ca:Clara Petacci cs:Clara Petacci de:Clara Petacci es:Clara Petacci fa:کلارا پتاچی fr:Clara Petacci id:Clara Petacci it:Clara Petacci la:Clara Petacci nl:Clara Petacci ja:クラーラ・ペタッチ no:Clara Petacci pl:Clara Petacci pt:Clara Petacci fi:Clara Petacci sv:Clara Petacci zh:克拉拉·贝塔西