 | birth_place = Thyolo, Nyasaland | spouse = Ethel Mutharika (deceased) | party = UDFDPP | religion = Roman CatholicBBC NEWS | Africa | Profile: Bingu wa Mutharika&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;  Bingu wa Mutharika (born February 24, 1934) is a Malawi economist, politician, and the current President of Malawi. He took office on May 24, 2004, after winning a disputed presidential election.BiographyBorn Brightson Webster Ryson Thom in Thyolo, about 30km from Malawi's commercial capital, Blantyre, he reverted to the family name of Mutharika and adopted the first name of Bingu during the 1960s when pan-Africanism was sweeping across the continent.He later added the prefix 'wa' between his names to disguise his identity from Dr Hastings Kamuzu Banda's state security, who were hunting down his opponents around the world, even though he was not a political opponent of Dr Banda.Mutharika was the son of a primary school headmaster. He was educated at the University of Delhi, India, where he gained a master's degree in economics. He later obtained a PhD in development economics from unaccredited Pacific Western University, in Los Angeles, California.After serving in the Malawi civil service and also for a period in the government of Zambia, Mutharika joined the United Nations in 1978, where he eventually became Director for Trade and Development Finance for Africa. In 1991 he was appointed secretary-general of the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa (COMESA), a regional body of 20 countries.One reason for Mutharika's decision to join the UN was his opposition to the regime of Malawi's self-declared "President for Life," Hastings Kamuzu Banda. After Banda was forced to liberalise his regime, Mutharika alleges was one of the founders of the United Democratic Front, the party that won Malawi's first multiparty elections in 1994.Mutharika was at that time a supporter of the UDF leader, President Bakili Muluzi, but he soon became a critic of Muluzi's economic policies and left the UDF. He formed the United Party (UP) in 1997 and unsuccessfully opposed Muluzi in the 1999 presidential elections, taking less than 1% of the vote.Elections in Malawi, African Elections Database.Mutharika dissolved the UP and rejoined the UDF after being offered the deputy governorship at Reserve Bank of Malawi. He was appointed Minister of Economic Planning and Development in 2002, and was then nominated by Muluzi as his successor. Mutharika won about 36% of the vote in the presidential election of May 20 2004, ahead of John Tembo and Gwanda Chakuamba, and took office a few days later.After taking office, Mutharika came into conflict with Muluzi, head of the UDF, over Mutharika's campaign against corruption. The dispute between them has characterized Mutharika's time in office thus far, and it has been claimed that political conflict is interfering with the country's governance.&quot;Political squabbles hamper governance, says conflict report&quot;, IRIN, May 26, 2006. On February 5, 2005, Mutharika announced his resignation from the UDF, saying that he had no support in the party because of his stand against corruption.&quot;Mutharika resigns from party, reshuffles cabinet&quot;, IRIN, February 7, 2005. There had previously been talk of expelling him from the party,&quot;Political infighting could destabilise govt&quot;, IRIN, January 31, 2005. and there had also been an alleged assassination plot against him by party members in early January 2005. Those accused were later pardoned by Mutharika, but he maintained the existence of the plot.&quot;Mutharika frees party leaders involved in &quot;assassination&quot; plot&quot;, IRIN, January 7, 2005. Mutharika subsequently formed his own party, the Democratic Progressive Party (DPP). In April 2005, Muluzi apologized to the country for choosing Mutharika as his successor "and imposing him on the country".&quot;Malawi president 'a bad choice'&quot;, BBC News, April 5, 2005.Gwanda Chakuamba, who had been made Minister of Agriculture, was dismissed from the cabinet and subsequently arrested in September 2005 for making a speech predicting that Mutharika would be out of office by Christmas.&quot;Sacked Malawi minister detained&quot;, BBC News, September 14, 2005. In 2006, Vice-President Cassim Chilumpha was arrested; he was accused of plotting Mutharika's assassination.&quot;Concern over threat of renewed political instability&quot;, IRIN, May 2, 2006.It was reported in March 2005 that he was not sleeping in the state mansion because of suspicions that it is home to evil spirits. A presidential aide was quoted as saying that Christian clergy had been asked to exorcise the spirits. This was subsequently denied, and journalists responsible for the story, including a BBC reporter, were arrested. Mutharika said that "I have not met any ghosts yet, I have never in my life been afraid of them".&quot;Malawi 'haunted palace' arrests&quot;, BBC.co.uk, March 17, 2005.Mutharika has upheld the memory of Hastings Banda as a national hero, saying that he would continue Banda's work.&quot;Mutharika pays Banda a US$620,000 tribute&quot;, IRIN, May 17, 2006. He restored Banda's name to the national stadium, the central hospital, and the international airport, from which it had been removed by Muluzi, in September 2004.&quot;Malawian president orders three facilities named after founding father Banda.&quot;, BBC Monitoring International Reports (accessmylibrary.com), September 15, 2004. In May 2006, he was present at the unveiling of a mausoleum for Banda that cost US$620,000.On October 7 2006, Mutharika stated his intention to seek re-election in the 2009 presidential election as the DPP candidate.&quot;Malawian president reveals ambitions for re-election&quot;, Xinhua (People's Daily Online), October 9, 2006.While serving as President, Mutharika also holds the portfolio of agriculture and food security in the Cabinet, and in a Cabinet reshuffle on May 10 2007 he additionally took over the education portfolio.&quot;Malawian president reshuffles his cabinet&quot;, Sapa-AFP (IOL), May 11, 2007.Mutharika's wife, Ethel, with whom he had four children, died on May 28, 2007 after a long battle with cancer which saw her seek treatment in France and South Africa. A month of mourning was declared.&quot;Malawi in mourning after first lady's death&quot;, Associated Press (IOL), May 30, 2007. His brother, Peter Mutharika, holds a doctorate from Yale and is a prominent law professor at Washington University in St. Louis.ReferencesSee alsoTokyo International Conference on African Development (TICAD-IV), 2008.    Category:1934 births Category:Living people Category:Current national leaders Category:People from Lilongwe, Malawi Category:Presidents of Malawi Category:Malawian Roman Catholics Category:California Miramar University alumniny:Bingu wa Muntharika tum:Bingu wa Mutharika de:Bingu wa Mutharika et:Bingu wa Mutharika el:Μπίνγκου γουά Μουταρίκα es:Bingu wa Mutharika eo:Bingu wa Mutharika fr:Bingu wa Mutharika gl:Bingu wa Mutharika id:Bingu wa Mutharika is:Bingu wa Mutharika it:Bingu wa Mutharika he:בינגו וה מותריקה nl:Bingu wa Mutharika ja:ビング・ワ・ムタリカ no:Bingu wa Mutharika pl:Bingu wa Mutharika ru:Бингу ва Мутарика fi:Bingu wa Mutharika sv:Bingu wa Mutharika zh:宾古·瓦·穆塔里卡