 |birth_place = Chicago, Illinois, U.S. |nationality = United States |field = Finance |work_institution = Rady School of Management |alma_mater = University of Chicago |doctoral_advisor = Jacob Marschak |known_for = Modern portfolio theoryMarkowitz frontier |prizes = Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences (1990)John von Neumann Prize (1989) Harry Max Markowitz (born August 24, 1927) is an economist at the Rady School of Management at the University of California, San Diego. He is best known for his pioneering work in Modern Portfolio Theory, studying the effects of asset risk, correlation and diversification on expected investment portfolio returns.BiographyHarry MarkowitzMarkowitz, Harry. &quot;Autobiography&quot;, The Nobel Prizes 1990, Editor Tore Frängsmyr, Foundation, Stockholm, 1991 was born on August 24, 1927 in Chicago, as the child of Morris and Mildred Markowitz. During high school, Markowitz picked up an interest in physics and philosophy, in particular the ideas of David Hume, an interest he continued to follow during his undergraduate years at the University of Chicago. After receiving his B.A., Markowitz decided to continue his studies at the University of Chicago, choosing to specialise in economics. There he had the opportunity to study under important economists, including Milton Friedman, Tjalling Koopmans, Jacob Marschak and Leonard Savage. While still a student, he was invited to become a member of the Cowles Commission, which was in Chicago at the time.Markowitz chose to apply mathematics to the analysis of the stock market as the topic for his dissertation. Jacob Marschak, who was the thesis advisor, encouraged him to pursue the topic, noting that it had also been a favourite interest of Alfred Cowles, the founder of the Cowles Commission. While researching the then current understanding of stock prices, which at the time consisted in the present value model of John Burr Williams, Markowitz realized that the theory lacks an analysis of the impact of risk. This insight lead to the development of his seminal theory of portfolio allocation under uncertainty, published in 1952 by the Journal of FinanceSee Selected publications.In 1952 Harry Markowitz went to work for the RAND Corporation, where he met George Dantzig. With Dantzig's help, Markowitz started to research optimisation techniques, developing the critical line algorithm for the identifications of the optimal mean-variance portfolios, lying on what was later named the Markowitz frontier. In 1955 he received a PhD from the University of Chicago with a thesis on the portfolio theory. The topic was so novel that, while Markowitz was defending his dissertation, Milton Friedman jokingly argued that portfolio theory was not economicsMarkowitz, Harry. &quot;Foundations of Portfolio Theory&quot;, The Nobel Prizes 1990, Editor Tore Frängsmyr, Foundation, Stockholm, 1991. During 1955-1956 Markowitz spent a year at the Cowles Foundation, which had moved to Yale University, at the invitation of James Tobin. He published the critical line algorithm in a 1956 paper and used the time at the foundation to write a book on portfolio allocation which was published in 1959. In 1963, Markowitz invented Buddy memory allocation.Markowitz won the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences in 1990 while a professor of finance at Baruch College of the City University of New York. He currently serves on the advisory panel of Robert D. Arnott's Pasadena, California based investment management firm, Research Affiliates and on the Advisory Board of Mark Hebner's Irvine, California and internet based investment advisory firm, Index Funds Advisors (ifa.com).The company that would become CACI Int'l was founded by Herb Karr and Harry Markowitz as California Analysis Center, Inc. 7/17/62. They helped develop SIMSCRIPT, the first simulation programming language, at RAND. After it was released to the public domain, CACI was founded to provide support and training for it.ResearchA Markowitz Efficient Portfolio is one where no added diversification can lower the portfolio's risk for a given return expectation (alternately, no additional expected return can be gained without increasing the risk of the portfolio). The Markowitz Efficient Frontier is the set of all portfolios that will give the highest expected return for each given level of risk. These concepts of efficiency were essential to the development of the Capital Asset Pricing Model.Markowitz also co-edited the textbook The Theory and Practice of Investment Management with Frank J. Fabozzi of Yale School of Management.Selected publications (reprinted in 1970 by Yale University Press, ISBN 978-0300013726; second edition in 1991, Blackwell Publishing, ISBN 978-1557861085)ReferencesExternal linksProfile on the official Nobel Foundation websiteFull text of Harry Markowitz (1959), Portfolio Selection: Efficient Diversification of Investments on the Cowles Foundation websiteHistory of Finance interviews, including an interview with Harry MarkowitzIDEAS/RePEc Category:American economists Category:City University of New York people Category:Jewish American scientists Category:University of Chicago alumni Category:Fellows of the Econometric Society Category:John von Neumann Theory Prize winners Category:Nobel laureates in Economicsar:هاري ماركويتز ca:Harry Markowitz de:Harry Max Markowitz es:Harry Markowitz fa:هری مارکوویتز fr:Harry Markowitz gd:Harry Markowitz ko:해리 마코위츠 id:Harry Max Markowitz it:Harry Markowitz he:הארי מרקוביץ' nl:Harry Markowitz ja:ハリー・マーコウィッツ pl:Harry Markowitz pt:Harry Max Markowitz ro:Harry Markowitz ru:Марковиц, Гарри fi:Harry Markowitz sv:Harry Markowitz