   library.]]Literature is the art of written works. Literally translated, the word means "acquaintance with letters" (from Latin littera letter). In Western culture the most basic written literary types include fiction and non-fiction.Definitions The word "literature" has different meanings depending on who is using it. It could be applied broadly to mean any symbolic record, encompassing everything from images and sculptures to letters. In a more narrow sense the term could mean only text composed of letters, or other examples of symbolic written language (Egyptian hieroglyphs, for example). An even more narrow interpretation is that text have a physical form, such as on paper or some other portable form, to the exclusion of inscriptions or digital media. The Muslim scholar and philosopher Imam Ja'far al-Sadiq (702-765 AD) defined Literature as follows: "Literature is the garment which one puts on what he says or writes so that it may appear more attractive."The Great Muslim Scientist and Philosopher Imam Jafar Ibn Mohammad As-Sadiq(a.s),Imam Hussain Publication, First Edition, ISBN 964-7371 12-8 added that literature is a slice of life that has been given direction and meaning, an artistic interpretation of the world according to the percipient's point of views. Frequently, the texts that make up literature crossed over these boundaries. Russian Formalist Roman Jakobson defines literature as "organized violence committed on ordinary speech", highlighting literature's deviation from the day-to-day and conversational structure of words. Illustrated stories, hypertexts, cave paintings and inscribed monuments have all at one time or another pushed the boundaries of "literature."People may perceive a difference between "literature" and some popular forms of written work. The terms "literary fiction" and "literary merit" often serve to distinguish between individual works. For example, almost all literate people perceive the works of Charles Dickens as "literature," whereas some critics look down on the works of Jeffrey Archer as unworthy of inclusion under the general heading of "English literature." Critics may exclude works from the classification "literature," for example, on the grounds of a poor standard of grammar and syntax, of an unbelievable or disjointed story-line, or of inconsistent or unconvincing characters. Genre fiction (for example: romance, crime, or science fiction) may also become excluded from consideration as "literature."HistoryOne of the earliest known literary works is the Sumerian Epic of Gilgamesh, an epic poem dated around 2700 B.C., which deals with themes of heroism, friendship, loss, and the quest for eternal life. Different historical periods have emphasized various characteristics of literature. Early works often had an overt or covert religious or didactic purpose. Moralizing or prescriptive literature stems from such sources. The exotic nature of romance flourished from the Middle Ages onwards, whereas the Age of Reason manufactured nationalistic epics and philosophical tracts. Romanticism emphasized the popular folk literature and emotive involvement, but gave way in the 19th-century West to a phase of realism and naturalism, investigations into what is real. The 20th century brought demands for symbolism or psychological insight in the delineation and development of character.PoetryA poem is defined as a composition written in verse (although verse has been equally used for epic and dramatic fiction). Poems rely heavily on imagery, precise word choice, and metaphor; they may take the form of measures consisting of patterns of stresses (metric feet) or of patterns of different-length syllables (as in classical prosody); and they may or may not utilize rhyme. One cannot readily characterize poetry precisely. Typically though, poetry as a form of literature makes some significant use of the formal properties of the words it uses &mdash; the properties attached to the written or spoken form of the words, rather than to their meaning. Metre depends on syllables and on rhythms of speech; rhyme and alliteration depend on wordsPoetry perhaps pre-dates other forms of literature: early known examples include the Sumerian Epic of Gilgamesh (dated from around 2700 B.C.), parts of the Bible, the surviving works of Homer (the Iliad and the Odyssey), and the Indian epics Ramayana and Mahabharata. In cultures based primarily on oral traditions the formal characteristics of poetry often have a mnemonic function, and important texts: legal, genealogical or moral, for example, may appear first in verse form.Some poetry uses specific forms: the haiku, the limerick, or the sonnet, for example. A traditional haiku written in Japanese must have something to do with nature, contain seventeen onji (syllables), distributed over three lines in groups of five, seven, and five, and should also have a kigo, a specific word indicating a season. A limerick has five lines, with a rhyme scheme of AABBA, and line lengths of 3,3,2,2,3 stressed syllables. It traditionally has a less reverent attitude towards nature. Poetry not adhering to a formal poetic structure is called "free verse"Language and tradition dictate some poetic norms: Persian poetry always rhymes, Greek poetry rarely rhymes, Italian or French poetry often does, English and German can go either way (although modern non-rhyming poetry often, perhaps unfairly, has a more "serious" aura). Perhaps the most paradigmatic style of English poetry, blank verse, as exemplified in works by Shakespeare and by Milton, consists of unrhymed iambic pentameters. Some languages prefer longer lines; some shorter ones. Some of these conventions result from the ease of fitting a specific language's vocabulary and grammar into certain structures, rather than into others; for example, some languages contain more rhyming words than others, or typically have longer words. Other structural conventions come about as the result of historical accidents, where many speakers of a language associate good poetry with a verse form preferred by a particular skilled or popular poet.Works for theatre (see below) traditionally took verse form. This has now become rare outside opera and musicals, although many would argue that the language of drama remains intrinsically poetic.In recent years, digital poetry has arisen that takes advantage of the artistic, publishing, and synthetic qualities of digital media.ProseProse consists of writing that does not adhere to any particular formal structures (other than simple grammar); "non-poetic" writing, perhaps. The term sometimes appears pejoratively, but prosaic writing simply says something without necessarily trying to say it in a beautiful way, or using beautiful words. Prose writing can of course take beautiful form; but less by virtue of the formal features of words (rhymes, alliteration, metre) but rather by style, placement, or inclusion of graphics. But one need not mark the distinction precisely, and perhaps cannot do so. One area of overlap is "prose poetry", which attempts to convey using only prose, the aesthetic richness typical of poetry.EssaysAn essay consists of a discussion of a topic from an author's personal point of view, exemplified by works by Francis Bacon or by Charles Lamb.'Essay' in English derives from the French 'essai', meaning 'attempt'. Thus one can find open-ended, provocative and/or inconclusive essays. The term "essays" first applied to the self-reflective musings of Michel de Montaigne, and even today he has a reputation as the father of this literary form.Genres related to the essay may include:the memoir, telling the story of an author's life from the author's personal point of viewthe epistle: usually a formal, didactic, or elegant letter.FictionNarrative fiction (narrative prose) generally favours prose for the writing of novels, short stories, graphic novels, and the like. Singular examples of these exist throughout history, but they did not develop into systematic and discrete literary forms until relatively recent centuries. Length often serves to categorize works of prose fiction. Although limits remain somewhat arbitrary, modern publishing conventions dictate the following:A Mini Saga is a short story of exactly 50 wordsA Flash fiction is generally defined as a piece of prose under a thousand words.A short story comprises prose writing of between 1000 and 20,000 words (but typically more than 500 words), which may or may not have a narrative arc.A story containing between 20,000 and 50,000 words falls into the novella category.A work of fiction containing more than 50,000 words falls squarely into the realm of the novel.A novel consists simply of a long story written in prose, yet the form developed comparatively recently. Icelandic prose sagas dating from about the 11th century bridge the gap between traditional national verse epics and the modern psychological novel. In mainland Europe, the Spaniard Cervantes wrote perhaps the first influential novel: Don Quixote, the first part of which was published in 1605 and the second in 1615. Earlier collections of tales, such as Boccaccio's Decameron and Chaucer's The Canterbury Tales, have comparable forms and would classify as novels if written today. Earlier works written in Asia resemble even more strongly the novel as we now think of it &mdash; for example, works such as the Chinese Romance of the Three Kingdoms and the Japanese Tale of Genji by Lady Murasaki. Compare to The Book of One Thousand and One Nights.Early novels in Europe did not, at the time, count as significant literature, perhaps because "mere" prose writing seemed easy and unimportant. It has become clear, however, that prose writing can provide aesthetic pleasure without adhering to poetic forms. Additionally, the freedom authors gain in not having to concern themselves with verse structure translates often into a more complex plot or into one richer in precise detail than one typically finds even in narrative poetry. This freedom also allows an author to experiment with many different literary and presentation styles &mdash; including poetry&mdash; in the scope of a single novel.See Ian Watt's The Rise of the Novel. definition needs expansionOther prose literaturePhilosophy, history, journalism, and legal and scientific writings traditionally ranked as literature. They offer some of the oldest prose writings in existence; novels and prose stories earned the names "fiction" to distinguish them from factual writing or nonfiction, which writers historically have crafted in prose.The "literary" nature of science writing has become less pronounced over the last two centuries, as advances and specialization have made new scientific research inaccessible to most audiences; science now appears mostly in journals. Scientific works of Euclid, Aristotle, Copernicus, and Newton still possess great value; but since the science in them has largely become outdated, they no longer serve for scientific instruction, yet they remain too technical to sit well in most programmes of literary study. Outside of "history of science" programmes students rarely read such works. Many books "popularizing" science might still deserve the title "literature"; history will tell.Philosophy, too, has become an increasingly academic discipline. More of its practitioners lament this situation than occurs with the sciences; nonetheless most new philosophical work appears in academic journals. Major philosophers through history—Plato, Aristotle, Augustine, Descartes, Nietzsche—have become as canonical as any writers. Some recent philosophy works are argued to merit the title "literature", such as some of the works by Simon Blackburn; but much of it does not, and some areas, such as logic, have become extremely technical to a degree similar to that of mathematics.A great deal of historical writing can still rank as literature, particularly the genre known as creative nonfiction. So can a great deal of journalism, such as literary journalism. However these areas have become extremely large, and often have a primarily utilitarian purpose: to record data or convey immediate information. As a result the writing in these fields often lacks a literary quality, although it often and in its better moments has that quality. Major "literary" historians include Herodotus, Thucydides and Procopius, all of whom count as canonical literary figures.Law offers a less clear case. Some writings of Plato and Aristotle, or even the early parts of the Bible, might count as legal literature. The law tables of Hammurabi of Babylon might count. Roman civil law as codified in the Corpus Juris Civilis during the reign of Justinian I of the Byzantine Empire has a reputation as significant literature. The founding documents of many countries, including the United States Constitution, can count as literature; however legal writing now rarely exhibits literary merit.Game Design Scripts - In essence never seen by the player of a game and only by the developers and/or publishers, the audience for these pieces is usually very small. Still, many game scripts contain immersive stories and detailed worlds making them hidden literary gems.Most of these fields, then, through specialization or proliferation, no longer generally constitute "literature" in the sense under discussion. They may sometimes count as "literary literature"; more often they produce what one might call "technical literature" or "professional literature".DramaA play or drama offers another classical literary form that has continued to evolve over the years. It generally comprises chiefly dialogue between characters, and usually aims at dramatic / theatrical performance (see theatre) rather than at reading. During the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, opera developed as a combination of poetry, drama, and music. Nearly all drama took verse form until comparatively recently. Shakespeare could be considered drama. Romeo and Juliet, for example, is a classic romantic drama generally accepted as literature.Greek drama exemplifies the earliest form of drama of which we have substantial knowledge. Tragedy, as a dramatic genre, developed as a performance associated with religious and civic festivals, typically enacting or developing upon well-known historical or mythological themes. Tragedies generally presented very serious themes. With the advent of newer technologies, scripts written for non-stage media have been added to this form. War of the Worlds (radio) in 1938 saw the advent of literature written for radio broadcast, and many works of Drama have been adapted for film or television. Conversely, television, film, and radio literature have been adapted to printed or electronic media.Oral literatureThe term oral literature refers not to written, but to oral traditions, which includes different types of epic, poetry and drama, folktales, ballads, legends, jokes, and other genres of folklore. It exists in every society, whether literate or not. It is generally studied by folklorists, or by scholars committed to cultural studies and ethnopoetics, including linguists, anthropologists, and even sociologists.Other narrative formsElectronic literature is a literary genre consisting of works which originate in digital environments.Films, videos and broadcast soap operas have carved out a niche which often parallels the functionality of prose fiction.Graphic novels and comic books present stories told in a combination of sequential artwork, dialogue and text.Genres of literatureA literary genre refers to the traditional divisions of literature of various kinds according to a particular criterion of writing. See the list of literary genres.List of literary genresAutobiography, Memoir, Spiritual autobiographyBiographyDiaries and JournalsElectronic literatureErotic literatureSlave narrativeFictionAdventure novelChildren's literatureComic novelCrime fictionDetective fictionFable, Fairy tale, FolkloreFantasy (for more details see Fantasy subgenres; fantasy literature)Gothic fiction (initially synonymous with horror)Historical fictionHorrorMedical novelMystery fictionPhilosophical novelPolitical fictionRomance novelHistorical romanceSaga, Family SagaSatireScience fiction (for more details see Science fiction genre)ThrillerConspiracy fictionLegal thrillerPsychological thrillerSpy fiction/Political thrillerTragedyLiterary techniques A literary technique or literary device may be used by works of literature in order to produce a specific effect on the reader. Literary technique is distinguished from literary genre as military tactics are from military strategy. Thus, though David Copperfield employs satire at certain moments, it belongs to the genre of comic novel, not that of satire. By contrast, Bleak House employs satire so consistently as to belong to the genre of satirical novel. In this way, use of a technique can lead to the development of a new genre, as was the case with one of the first modern novels, Pamela by Samuel Richardson, which by using the epistolary technique strengthened the tradition of the epistolary novel, a genre which had been practiced for some time already but without the same acclaim.Literary criticismAlso see:Literary criticism, Literary history, Literary theoryLiterary criticism implies a critique and evaluation of a piece of literature and in some cases is used to improve a work in progress or classical piece. There are many types of literary criticism and each can be used to critique a piece in a different way or critique a different aspect of a piece.Legal statusUKLiterary works have been protected by copyright law from unauthorised reproduction since at least 1710.The Statute of Anne 1710 and the Literary Copyright Act 1842 used the term "book". However, since 1911 the statutes have referred to literary works. Literary works are defined by copyright law to mean any work, other than a dramatic or musical work, which is written, spoken or sung, and accordingly includes (a) a table or compilation (other than a database), (b) a computer program, © preparatory design material for a computer program, and (d) a database.It should be noted that literary works are not limited to works of literature, but include all works expressed in print or writing (other than dramatic or musical works).University of London Press v. University Tutorial Press 1916See alsoListsList of basic literature topicsList of authorsList of booksList of literary awardsList of literary termsList of prizes, medals, and awards for literary prizes.List of women writersList of writersRelated topicsAsemic WritingChildren's literatureCultural movement for literary movements.English studiesErgodic literatureHinman CollatorHistory of literature (antiquity &mdash; 1800)History of modern literature (1800 &mdash;)Literature basic topicsLiterary criticismLiterature cycleLiterary magazineModern Language AssociationOraturePostcolonial literatureRabbinic literatureScientific literatureVernacular literatureWorld literatureNotesExternal links  Writiki.com - Collaborative literature[http://etext.lib.virginia.edu/cgi-local/DHI/dhi.cgi?id=dv1-55 Dictionary of the History of Ideas:] Classicism in LiteratureThe Universal Library, by Carnegie Mellon UniversityProject Gutenberg Online LibraryLectio Divina or Divine Literature An essentially eclectic excerpts' resource for religious literature.The importance of the history of LiteratureAbacci - Project Gutenberg texts matched with Amazon reviewsThe Online Books Page A search engine for online ebooks.Internet Book List - Similar to IMDb but for books.The Art of Literature: Essay from Encyclopædia Britannica by Kenneth Rexroth.Most Honored Literature, books sorted by awards.A Bibliography of Literary Theory, Criticism, and Philology (José Ángel García Landa, University of Zaragoza, Spain)Univers LitteraireThe Johns Hopkins Guide to literary Theory and CriticismAmerican literary realism: definitions, links, bibliographies[http://etext.lib.virginia.edu/DicHist/analytic/anaIII.html The history of ideas in literature and the arts in aesthetic theory and literary criticism. In The Dictionary of the History of Ideas.]Category:Humanities Category:Literature Category:Fictionaf:Letterkunde am:ሥነ ጽሑፍ ar:أدب an:Literatura frp:Litèratura ast:Lliteratura az:Ədəbiyyat bn:সাহিত্য zh-min-nan:Bûn-ha̍k ba:Әҙәбиәт be-x-old:Літаратура bar:Literatur bs:Književnost br:Lennegezh bg:Литература ca:Literatura cv:Литература ceb:Katitikan cs:Literatura co:Littiratura cy:Llenyddiaeth da:Litteratur de:Literatur et:Kirjandus el:Λογοτεχνία es:Literatura eo:Literaturo eu:Literatura fa:ادبیات fo:Bókmentir fr:Littérature fy:Literatuer fur:Leterature ga:Litríocht gd:Litreachas gl:Literatura gu:સાહિત્ય ko:문학 hi:साहित्य hr:Književnost io:Literaturo ilo:Literatura id:Sastra ia:Litteratura ie:Literatura os:Литературæ is:Bókmenntir it:Letteratura he:ספרות jv:Sastra pam:Literatura ka:ლიტერატურა csb:Lëteratura sw:Fasihi ht:Literati ku:Wêje lo:ວັນນະຄະດີ la:Litterae lv:Literatūra lb:Literatur lt:Literatūra li:Literatuur hu:Irodalom mk:Литература ml:സാഹിത്യം ms:Kesusasteraan nl:Literatuur nds-nl:Literatuur ne:साहित्य ja:文学 nap:Litteratura no:Litteratur nn:Litteratur nrm:Littéthatuthe nov:Literature oc:Literatura ps:ادبيات nds:Literatur pl:Literatura pt:Literatura kaa:A'debiyat ro:Literatură qu:Simi kapchiy ru:Литература sa:प्राचीन साहित्यम् sco:Leiteratur sq:Letërsia scn:Littiratura simple:Literature sk:Literatúra sl:Književnost sr:Књижевност sh:Književnost fi:Kirjallisuus sv:Litteratur tl:Panitikan ta:இலக்கியம் kab:Tasekla tt:Ädäbiät th:วรรณกรรม vi:Văn chương tg:Адабиёт tr:Edebiyat uk:Література ur:ادب vec:Łiteratura fiu-vro:Kirändüs wa:Belès letes war:Literatura wo:Njàngat yi:ליטעראטור yo:Lítírésò zh-yue:文學 diq:Edebiyat zea:Literatuur bat-smg:Literatūra zh:文学