  | Origin = Basildon, Essex, England | Genre = Synthpop, Alternative dance, New Wave, Post-punk, Electronica | Instrument = Guitar, Vocals, Keyboards, Bass | Years_active = 1980&ndash;present | Label = MuteSireReprise | | Associated_acts = Depeche Mode | URL = www.martingore.com  Martin Gore (born Martin Lee Gore, 23 July 1961, Basildon, Essex, England) is an English songwriter, lyricist, singer, guitarist and keyboardist. He is a founding member of Depeche Mode, a quintessential electronic band. His work now spans three decades, but he is best known as the composer of hits such as "Personal Jesus" and "Enjoy the Silence".CareerGore left St. Nicholas's Comprehensive School in 1977 and took a job as a bank teller. During evenings, weekends and any other spare time, he was involved with the local band 'Norman and the Worms'.In 1980, Gore met Andrew &quot;Fletch&quot; Fletcher at the Van Gogh club. Fletcher recruited Gore into his band with Vince Clarke, Composition of Sound. Soon the band drafted David Gahan to be the lead singer after hearing him sing "Heroes" by David Bowie. Gahan is credited with the name "Depeche Mode" after seeing the phrase as a title of a French fashion magazine, which considered taking them to court, but thought it would be good publicity for the magazine to let the band have the name.Clarke left Depeche Mode in 1981 shortly after the release of the debut album Speak &amp; Spell. Gore then became the band's main songwriter. Gore sings lead vocals on several of the band's songs, notably ballads, his tenor voice providing a contrast to David Gahan's dramatic baritone.Clarke wrote most of Depeche Mode's first album, Speak &amp; Spell (1981). Gore contributed two tracks, "Tora! Tora! Tora!" and the instrumental "Big Muff". "Any Second Now (voices)" features Gore's first lead vocals for the band. When Clarke announced his departure from Depeche Mode in 1981, citing the pressures of fame and creative differences, Gore took over songwriting. Gore had been writing material since the age of twelve.Songs Gore wrote for Depeche Mode's second album, A Broken Frame (1982) differed musically and lyrically from Clarke's. Gore's writing became gradually darker and more political on subsequent Depeche Mode albums.Gore remains the primary songwriter for Depeche Mode.Personal lifeAccording to Jonathan Miller's book "Stripped: Depeche Mode" (Omnibus Press, 2003, 2004, ISBN 1-84449-415-2, pp. 318-319), Gore's biological father was an African-American GI stationed in the UK. Gore was raised by his stepfather and biological mother. Miller quotes childhood friends and Gore himself. According to Miller's source, Gore is of mixed ethnicity, and, as an adult, met his father in the American South. Gore responds to the source's information and is quoted in Miller's book saying "It brings up family traumas" and "It's one of those things I'd rather not talk about."Martin currently lives in Santa Barbara, California. He is now divorced from his wife of 12 years, lingerie designer and model Suzanne Boisvert-Gore. He has 3 children: two daughters Viva Lee Gore (born June 6, 1991) and Ava Lee Gore (born August 21, 1995) and a son Calo Leon Gore (born July 27, 2002).Solo discographyCounterfeit e.p. (Mute STUMM 67, 1989)Counterfeit² (Mute STUMM 214, 2003)In 2003, Mute released Gore's Counterfeit², a follow up solo cover album to the 1989 Counterfeit EP. Both feature only versions of material by other songwriters.Martin sang backing vocals on the Client song "Overdrive".He also played guitar on the Gwen Stefani song "Wonderful Life" on her 2006 album The Sweet Escape.He collaborated on the band Onetwo's track "Cloud Nine" by playing the guitar and as songwriter of the song.In 2007, on the unreleased Nitzer Ebb track "Once You See", Gore sang backing vocals.SinglesYearTitleChart positionsAlbumHot 100]]Modern Rock]]Mainstream Rock]]UK]]1989"Compulsion"—#18——Counterfeit2003"Stardust"———#44Counterfeit²2003"Loverman EP²"————Counterfeit²Remixes1994 Spirit Feel – "Rejoice" (Mystic Span Mix)1995 Garbage – "Queer" (The Most Beautiful Woman in Town Mix)1999 ON – "Soluble Words" (Sublingual Remix)2003 Señor Coconut And His Orchestra – "Smooth Operator" (In-Disguise Remix)Depeche Mode songs with Gore on lead vocalsDepeche Mode's lead vocals are generally handled by David Gahan, but on occasion Gore will sing lead vocals. These are all the songs he sings in chronological order:Speak and Spell"Any Second Now (voices)"Construction Time Again"Pipeline""Everything Counts (Reprise)"Some Great Reward"It Doesn't Matter""Somebody"Black Celebration"A Question of Lust""Sometimes""It Doesn't Matter Two""World Full of Nothing""Black Day" singleMusic for the Masses"The Things You Said""I Want You Now""Route 66" (cover of a song by Bobby Troup of &quot;[[Behind the Wheel]"]Violator"Enjoy the Silence" (Harmonium version only) the Silence&quot; single"Sweetest Perfection""Blue Dress"Songs of Faith and Devotion"Death's Door" [Until the End of the World soundtrack]"Judas""One Caress"Ultra"Home""The Bottom Line"Exciter"Comatose""Breathe"Playing the Angel"Macro""Damaged People"DuetThese are songs where Gahan and Gore have around equal singing time, in chronological order. In some instances, both sing at the same time (ex: "Behind the Wheel"), and in others, Gahan sings the verses while Gore sings the chorus (ex: "Everything Counts").Note that the songs listed here are based on judgement of the Wikipedia users editing this site, and may not officially be called "duets" by the band or some other Wikipedia users.Shouldn't Have Done That [A Broken Frame]Everything Counts [Construction Time Again]Something to Do [Some Great Reward] (the 2004 Black Strobe remix completely loses Gahan's voice)People Are People [Some Great Reward]Shake the Disease [Catching Up with Depeche Mode]Here is the House [Black Celebration]Behind the Wheel [Music for the Masses]Pleasure, Little Treasure [Music for the Masses]Waiting for the Night [Violator]Insight [Ultra]Surrender to &quot;[[Only When I Lose Myself]"], albeit only towards the end of the trackDream On [Exciter]The Sinner In Me [Playing the Angel]Nothing's Impossible [Playing the Angel]Newborn to &quot;[[A Pain That I'm Used To]"]LiveThese are songs that Gore has sung lead live, although the studio versions are sung by Gahan, in chronological order of the song's first live performance by Gore. Includes his solo concerts in 2003. To date, the only Gore-lead song that was sung by Gahan live was "Route 66" which was the closer during the World Violation Tour.Little 15 (World Violation Tour)Here is the House (World Violation Tour)Condemnation (Exotic Tour, Exciter Tour, Solo)Waiting for the Night (Exotic Tour)Sister of Night (KROQ Acoustic Christmas '98, The Singles Tour, Exciter Tour)Dressed in Black (Exciter Tour)Surrender (Exciter Tour, Solo)Only When I Lose Myself (Solo only)In Your Room (Solo only)Walking in My Shoes (Solo only)The Love Thieves (Solo only)Enjoy the Silence (Solo only)Shake the Disease (Solo, Touring the Angel)Leave in Silence (Touring The Angel)SourcesMiller, Jonathan "Stripped: Depeche Mode" 2003, 2004, Omnibus Press ISBN 1-84449-415-2ReferencesExternal links Category:1961 births Category:Living people Category:English songwriters Category:Depeche Mode members Category:Ivor Novello Award winners Category:People from Basildon Category:British expatriates in the United Statesbe-x-old:Марцін Гор bg:Мартин Гор cs:Martin Gore de:Martin Gore et:Martin Gore es:Martin Gore fr:Martin L. Gore hr:Martin Gore it:Martin Lee Gore he:מרטין גור lt:Martin Lee Gore hu:Martin Gore nl:Martin Gore uz:Martin Gore pl:Martin Gore ro:Martin Gore ru:Гор, Мартин sr:Мартин Гор fi:Martin Gore sv:Martin L. Gore tr:Martin Gore