 | image name = Bandera de Menorca.svg | image caption = Flag of Minorca | image size = 175px | locator map =  | map_custom = yes | native name = | native name link = Spain | nickname = | location = Mediterranean Sea | coordinates =  | archipelago = Balearic Islands | total islands = | major islands = | area = 694.39 km² | highest mount = Monte Toro | elevation = 358 m | country = Spain | country admin divisions title = Autonomous Community | country admin divisions = Balearic Islands | country admin divisions title 1 = Province | country admin divisions 1 = Balearic Islands | country admin divisions title 2 = | country admin divisions 2 = | country capital city = Mahon | country largest city = Mahon | country largest city population = 27,468 | country leader title = 2 | country leader name = | population = 88,434 | population as of = 2006 | density = 127.4 /km² | ethnic groups = | additional info =  Minorca (Catalan and Spanish: Menorca; from Latin Balearis Minor, later Minorica "minor island") is one of the Balearic Islands located in the Mediterranean Sea and belongs to Spain. It takes its name from being smaller than nearby island of Majorca. Minorca has a population of approximately 88,000. It is located around 39°47' to 40°00'N, 3°52' to 4°24'E. Its highest point, called El Toro or Monte Toro, is 358 m/1174 ft above sea level.HistoryThe island is known for its large collection of megalithic stone monuments: ''navetes'', ''taules'', and talaiots, which speak of a very early prehistoric human activity. Some of the earliest culture on Minorca was influenced by other Mediterranean cultures, including the Minoans of ancient Crete. For example the use of inverted plastered timber columns at Knossos is thought to have influenced early peoples of Minorca in imitating this practice.[http://letmespeaktothedriver.com/site/10854/knossos.html#fieldnotes C. Michael Hogan, Knossos fieldnotes, Modern Antiquarian (2007)]The end of the Punic wars saw an increase in piracy in the western Mediterranean. The Roman occupation of Hispania had meant a growth of maritime trade between the Iberian and Italian peninsulas. Pirates took advantage of the strategic location of the Balearic Islands to raid Roman commerce, using both Minorca and Majorca as bases. In reaction to this, the Romans sent an army to the islands in order to put an end to such activities (NB: for a full list of invasions of the island, see Invasion of Minorca). By 121 BC both islands were fully under Roman control, later being incorporated into the province of Hispania Citerior. In 13 BC Caesar Augustus reorganized the provincial system and the Balearic Islands became part of the Tarraconensis imperial province. The ancient town of Mago on Minorca was transformed from a Carthaginian town to a Roman town.Henry Christmas, The Shores and Islands of the Mediterranean, Published 1851, R. BentleyThe Letter on the Conversion of the Jews by a fifth century bishop named Severus tells of the conversion of the island's Jewish community in AD 418. Vandals conquered it on the 5th century. Following the Moorish conquest of peninsular Spain, Minorca was annexed to the Caliphate of Córdoba in 903 and given the Arabicized name of Manûrqa. In 1231, after Christian forces reconquered Majorca, Minorca became an independent Islamic state, albeit one tributary to King James I of Aragon. The island was ruled first by Abû 'Uthmân Sa'îd Hakam al Qurashi (1234–1282), and following his death by his son, Abû 'Umar ibn Sa'îd (1282–1287). An Aragonese invasion, led by Alfonso III came on January 17, 1287, now celebrated as Minorca's national day. Most of the Muslim inhabitants of the island were enslaved and sold in the slave markets of Ibiza, Valencia and Barcelona. Until 1344 the island was part of the Kingdom of Majorca, also an Aragonese vassal state, which was itself annexed to Aragon, and subsequently to the unified kingdom of Spain. During the 16th century, Turkish naval attacks destroyed Maó, and the then capital, Ciutadella.Captured by the British navy in 1708 during the War of the Spanish Succession, Minorca became a British possession. Under the governorship of General Richard Kane, this period saw the island's capital moved to Maó, and a naval base established in that town's harbour. During the Seven Years' War, however, the failure of a British naval squadron to lift a French siege of Minorca on 20 May 1756 later led to the court-martial and execution of Admiral John Byng. This naval engagement, the Battle of Minorca, represented the outbreak of the Seven Years' War in the European theatre. Despite this defeat, British resistance persisted at Maó, but the garrison was forced to capitulate under honourable terms, including free passage back to Britain, on 29 June of that same year. The Treaty of Paris (1763), however, saw British rule restored, since Britain and its allies largely prevailed in the war. During the American Revolutionary War, the British were defeated for a second time, in this instance by a combination of French and Spanish forces, which captured the island after a long siege of St. Philip's Castle on February 5, 1782. Minorca was recovered by the British once again in 1798, during the French Revolutionary Wars, but it was finally and permanently ceded to Spain by the Treaty of Amiens in 1802. The British influence can still be seen in local architecture with elements such as sash windows.During the Spanish Civil War, Minorca stayed loyal to the Republican Spanish government, while the rest of the Balearic Islands supported the Nationalists. It did not see combat, except for aerial bombing by the Italians of Corpo Truppe Volontarie air force. Many Minorcans were also killed when taking part in a failed invasion of Majorca. After the Nationalist victory in 1939, the British navy assisted in a peaceful transfer of power in Minorca and the evacuation of some political refugees.In October 1993, Minorca was designated by UNESCO as a biosphere reserve.In July 2005, the island's application to become the 25th member of the International Island Games Association was approved.LanguageMost locals are bilingual in Spanish and the variety of Catalan called Menorquí. Between Menorquí and Catalan proper, as with most Balearic dialects, the most distinctive difference is the different word used for the article "the", where Menorquí uses "es" for masculine and "sa" for feminine. Menorquí thus shares the source of its article with many Sardinian varieties (masc. sing. su, fem sing. sa), rather than the Catalan "el" and "la", common to many Romance languages (e.g. Spanish el, la, Italian il, la), corresponding to a form which was historically used along the Costa Brava of Catalonia, from where the islands were repopulated after being conquered from the Moors. Menorquí also has a few English loan words dating back to the British occupation such as "grevi", "xumaquer", "boinder" and "xoc" taken from "gravy", "shoemaker", "bow window" and "chalk", respectively.Food and drinkLingering British influence is seen in the Minorcans' taste for gin, which during the local festes (holidays dedicated to a town's patron saint), the islanders mix with bitter lemon to make the popular Pomada. Also famous is Formatge de Maó, a cheese typical of the island.It is thought that the concept of Mayonnaise was brought back to France from Mahon, Minorca, after Louis-François-Armand du Plessis de Richelieu's victory over the British at the city's port in 1756.MunicipalitiesThe major towns are Maó and Ciutadella. The island is administratively divided into these municipalities:AlaiorCiutadella previously the capital of MinorcaEs Castell Founded by the British and originally named as Georgetown.Es Mercadal - Virtual tour through Es MercadalFornells, which belongs to the municipality of Es Mercadal. Famous for its lobster soup. - Virtual tour through FornellsEs Migjorn Gran or Es Mitjorn Gran hometown of Joan Riudavets.FerreriesMaó, the city from which mayonnaise gets its name (Catalán Maó, Spanish Mahón), became the capital thanks to its strategic natural harbour.Sant Climent which belongs to the municipality of Maó.Llucmassanes a small hamlet which belongs to the municipality of Maó.Sant Lluís Founded by the French.References in popular cultureMinorca (Port Mahon) is where Jack Aubrey and Stephen Maturin first meet in the Patrick O'Brian novel Master and Commander, the first in his Aubrey/Maturin series.In the 1995 made-for-television film Persuasion (set in the historical period of the War of the Spanish Succession), Captain Frederick Wentworth asks his friend Captain Benwick "do you remember what we ate in Minorca?"In the novel Alas, Babylon by Pat Frank, numerous characters, including Pete Hernandez and Rita Hernandez are identified as being Minorcans. They are descendents of colonies of New Smyrna Beach, Florida, established in Florida in 1765.In the movie, "The Madness of King George," the mad King George III charges his physician with a secret mission to offer Gibraltar to Spain in exchange for Minorca.See alsoGymnesian IslandsManûrqaRoman Catholic Diocese of MenorcaLine note referencesBibliographyBurns, Robert I. (1990) Muslims in the Thirteenth Century Realms of Aragon: Interaction and Reaction, p.67, In: Powell, J.M. (ed.) "Muslims under Latin Rule, 1100-1300", p. 57-102, Princeton University Press, ISBN 0-6910-5586-6External links Pictures Photographs of MenorcaIsland government of MinorcaUNESCO's Minorca Biosphere Reserve Social and environmental observatory of MinorcaCategory:Islands of the Balearic Islands Category:Menorca Category:Biosphere reserves of Spainbr:Menorca ca:Menorca cs:Menorca da:Menorca de:Menorca el:Μενόρκα eo:Minorko es:Menorca et:Menorca eu:Menorca fi:Menorca fr:Minorque gl:Menorca he:מנורקה id:Menorca it:Minorca ja:メノルカ島 nl:Minorca no:Menorca pl:Minorka pt:Minorca ru:Менорка sr:Менорка sv:Menorca tr:Minorka