Epiphanius (ca. 310&ndash;320 &ndash; 403) was bishop of Salamis and metropolitan of Cyprus at the end of the 4th century AD. He is considered a Church Father. He gained the reputation of a strong defender of orthodoxy. He is best known for composing a very large compendium of the heresies down to his own time, full of quotations from them.Ecclesiastical LifeHe was born into a Jewish family in the small settlement of Besanduk, near Eleutheropolis, Judaea, but converted to Christianity, and lived as a monk in Egypt, where he was educated and came into contact with Valentinian groups. Returning to Judaea around 333, when still a young man, he founded a monastery at Ad nearbyThe more famous Monastery of Epiphanius near Thebes, Egypt was founded by an anchorite named Epiphanius towards the end of the sixth century; it was explored by an expedition from the Metropolitan Museum of Art, 1912-14. which is often mentioned in the polemics of Jerome with Rufinus and John, Bishop of Jerusalem. He was ordained a priest, and lived and studied as superior of the monastery for thirty years. He became versed in several languages including Hebrew, Syriac, Egyptian, Greek, and Latin and was called by Jerome on that account Pentaglossis ("Five tongued").His reputation for learning prompted his nomination and consecration as Bishop of Salamis, CyprusSalamis was also known as Constantia after Constantine II. in 367. He was also the Metropolitan of the Church of Cyprus. He served as bishop for nearly forty years, as well as traveling widely to combat unorthodox beliefs. He was present at a synod in Antioch (376) where the Trinitarian questions were debated against the heresy of Apollinarianism. He upheld the position of Bishop Paulinus, who had the support of Rome, over that of Meletius of Antioch, who was supported by the Eastern Churches. In 382 he was present at the Council of Rome, again upholding the cause of Paulinus. During a visit to Palestine in 394 he attacked Origen's followers and urged the Bishop of Jerusalem to condemn his writings. Origen's writings were eventually condemned at the Fifth Ecumenical Council in 553. When Epiphanius was nearly 80, in 402, at the behest of Bishop Theophilus of Alexandria, the saint went to Constantinople to support Theophilus in his campaign against Saint John Chrysostom, and the four "Tall Brothers." When he realized he was being used as a tool by Theophilus against Saint John Chrysostom, who had given refuge to the monks persecuted by Theophilus and who were appealing to the emperor, Epiphanius started back to Salamis, only to die on the way home in 403.WritingsHis earliest known work is the Ancoratus ("the well anchored man"), which includes arguments against Arianism and the teachings of Origen.His best-known book is the Panarion which means "Medicine-chest" (also known as Adversus Haereses, "Against Heresies"), presented as a book of antidotes for those bitten by the serpent of heresy. Written between 374 and 377, it forms a handbook for dealing with the arguments of heretics. It lists 80 heresies, some of which are not described in any other surviving documents from the time. While Epiphanius often let his zeal come before facts - he admits on one occasion that he writes against the Origenists based only on hearsay (Panarion, Haeresis 71) - the Panarion is a valuable source of information on the Christian church of the fourth century. The Panarion was only recently (1987 and 1990) translated into English.Aside from the polemics by which he is known, Epiphanius wrote a work of biblical antiquarianism, called, for one of its sections, On Measures and Weights (περί μέτρω καί στάθμων). It was composed in Constantinople for a Persian priest, in 392.Allen A. Shaw, "On Measures and Weights by Epiphanius" National Mathematics Magazine 11.1 (October 1936: 3-7). The first section discusses the canon of the Old Testament and its versions, the second of measures and weights, and the third, the geography of Palestine. The texts appear not to have been given a polish but consist of rough notes and sketches, his modern editor, Allen A. Shaw, concluded; nevertheless Epiphanius' work on metrology was important in the History of measurement.The collection of homilies traditionally ascribed to a "Saint Epiphanius, bishop" are dated in the late fifth or sixth century and are not connected with Epiphanius of Salamis by modern scholars.Alvar Erikson, Sancti Epiphani Episcopi Interpretatio Evangelorum (Lund) 1938, following Dom Morin.WorksThe Panarion of Epiphanius of Salamis, Book I (Sects 1-46) Frank Williams, translator, 1987 (E.J. Brill, Leiden) ISBN 90-04-07926-2The Panarion of Epiphanius of Salamis, Book II and III (Sects 47-80, De Fide) Frank Williams, translator, 1993 (E.J. Brill, Leiden) ISBN 90-04-09898-4The Panarion of St. Epiphanius, Bishop of Salamis Philip R. Amidon, translator, 1990 (Oxford University Press, New York) ISBN 01-95-06291-4NotesExternal linksEpiphanius, On Biblical Weights and Measures English translation of a Syriac text[http://www.tertullian.org/rpearse/epiphanius.html Some excerpts from the Panarion][http://essenes.crosswinds.net/panarion.htm Further excerpts from the Panarion]Letter from Epiphianus, Bishop of Salamis, in Cyprus, to John, Bishop of JerusalemOpera Omnia by Migne Patrologia Graeca with analytical indexesCategory:Year of birth unknown Category:4th century births Category:403 deaths Category:4th century Romans Category:5th century Byzantine people Category:Ancient writers Category:Anti-Gnosticism Category:Archbishops of Cyprus Category:Cypriot non-fiction writers Category:Cypriot saints Category:Eastern Orthodox saints Category:Coptic Orthodox saints Category:Eastern Catholic saints Category:Roman Catholic saints Category:Saints from the Holy Land Category:Jewish Christians Category:Converts from Judaism to Christianity Category:Doctors of the Church Category:4th century bishops Category:Jews and Judaism in Cyprus Category:Ancient Christian controversies Category:Ancient Roman saintsca:Epifani I de Constància de:Epiphanius von Salamis es:Epifanio de Salamis fr:Épiphane de Salamine ko:에피파니우스 it:Epifanio di Salamina he:אפיפניוס מסלמיס la:Epiphanius (episcopus Salaminis) hu:Epiphaniosz nl:Epiphanius van Salamis pl:Epifaniusz z Salaminy pt:Epifânio ro:Epifanie de Salamina ru:Епифаний Кипрский sr:Епифаније Кипарски fi:Epifanios sv:Epiphanius av Salamis