  In Norse mythology, Hel (sometimes Anglicized or Latinized as Hela) is the ruler of Hel, the Norse underworld. Hel's hall is named Éljúðnir.EtymologyThe old Old Norse word Hel derives from Proto-Germanic * khalija, which means "one who covers up or hides something", which itself derives from Proto-Indo-European kel-'', meaning "conceal". The term may have later spawned the English word ''Hell. Related terms are Old Frisian helle, German Hölle and Gothic halja. Norwegian and Swedish helvete "hell" come from Old Norse ''helviti'', hel (the location) + viti "punishment".Prose Edda.]] In the Prose Edda book Gylfaginning, Hel is described as the daughter of Loki and Angrboða – a giantess (gýgr, see jötunn) – and thus sister of the Fenrisulfr and the sea serpent Jörmungandr. Since her father is often described as a god, although both his parents were giants, the same might be said of Hel.When Odin became aware of the existence of Loki's children, he banished them to remote places. He then cast Hel down to her realm in the underworld and gave her authority over all those in the nine worlds who do not die gloriously in battle but of sickness or of old age.AppearanceHel's appearance and possessions are also described in Gylfaginning:Dealings with BaldrLater in the same source is described how Hermóðr tries to retrieve the dead Baldr's soul from Hel.Hel agrees to release Baldr, but only if every being in the world cries over his death. All do, except for one giantess—sometimes said to be Loki in disguise—and thus Baldr remains in Hel, though he will supposedly be resurrected after Ragnarok.HeimskringlaHeimskringla relates that she procured herself a spouse by having the Swedish king Dyggvi die a natural death.Hel, the realm The path to Hel is known as the Helvegr and the gates Helgrindr or Nágrind ("Corpse Gate"). Here Garmr is fastened, Hel's watchdog, who is bloody both on chest and neck.TheoriesLate descriptionIt has been suggested that this description of Hel is of later date, and that she originally was a much more neutral goddess over the realm of shadows, where all, despite their deeds, gather after death. This can be seen as being supported by the etymology of Hel (Lat. Celāre, Ger. hehlen), meaning the "hider". It is important to note also that Baldr and Sigurd are sent to Hel after their deaths. Bishop Wulfila uses the Gothic word Halja to translate the Greek "Hades."Viktor Rydberg, in particular, advocated this view. In the book "Our Fathers' Godsaga" he theorizes that the correct name for Loki's daughter is in fact "Leikn" and that, in Christian times, she was confused with Urðr, one of the three Norns and the dís of fate and death. Rydberg's theories are not generally accepted.In the Icelandic Book of Revelations the word Hades is translated as Hel.ReferencesSee alsoHolle (goddess)Hela (Marvel Comics) Category:Death goddesses Category:Norse goddesses Category:Norse mythology Category:Underworld goddessesca:Hela cs:Hel da:Hel (Lokes datter) de:Hel (Mythologie) et:Hel el:Χελ es:Hela eo:Hel (mitologio) fr:Hel (déesse) gl:Hela hr:Hel it:Hel (divinità) lv:Hēla (mītiska būtne) lt:Helė nl:Hel (godin) ja:ヘル no:Hel (underverdenens herskerinne) nn:Hel pl:Hel (bogini) pt:Hela ru:Хель simple:Hel (goddess) sr:Хел fi:Hel sv:Hel th:เฮล vi:Hel (thần thoại) uk:Хель