  Arequipa is a region in southwestern Peru. It is bordered by the Ica, Ayacucho, Apurímac and Cusco regions on the north; the Puno Region on the east; the Moquegua Region on the south; and the Pacific Ocean on the west. Its capital, also called Arequipa, is Peru's second-largest city.GeographyThis region has a rough surface which is characterized by heavy layers of volcanic lava covering large areas of its inter-Andean sector. It has deep canyons like the ones formed by the Ocoña and Majes rivers as opposed to medium-altitude plateaus such as La Joya, and high-altitude ones such the Arrieros Pampa and those located in the zones of Chivay, Huambo and Pichucolla. Volcanic cones are seen in this area emerging above the plateaus and forming snowfalls, such as Misti, Chachani, Ampato, Mismi, Solimana and Coropuna. In contrast with these heights, there are deep and impressing canyons, including Majes, Colca, Sihuas and Ocoña where important aspects of the ecological evolution of this zone can be clearly observed.In the Coast, small plateaus and dunes represent characteristics of the desert of Arequipa, like the ones located in the Majes, Sihuas and La Joya pampas which are particularly beautiful and developed.From a hydrographic point of view, the rivers draining its territory belong mainly to the Pacific watershed but there are also some rivers belonging to the Amazon hydrographic system. Some of the region's main rivers are: Ocoña, Yauca, Camana and Quilca. The starting point of the Amazon River, the longest river on Earth, is located in the Arequipa region.Points of interestThere are numerous points of interest in the Arequipa region. The three coastal provinces, Caraveli, Camana and Islay all have popular beaches. Various ports can also be found along the coastline, the two most important being Mollendo and Matarani, both in the province of Islay.The Colca Canyon, twice as deep as the Grand Canyon, is in the province of Caylloma and the Cotahuasi canyon is in the province of La Union. Colca Valley provides incredible close-up views of majestic Andean condors soaring in their natural habitat. Cotahuasi, at 3535 meters is presently thought to be the deepest canyon in the world. Both canyons offer spectacular scenery and villages as yet unaffected by the modern world.In the province of Castilla, by the town of Corire is Toro Muerto where one can see more than 3,000 petroglyphs. Further to the north, near the town of Andaguas, lies the Valley of Volcanoes where almost 100 cones of various sizes dominate the lava-hardened landscape.Political divisionThe region is divided into eight provinces (provincias, singular: provincia), which are composed of 109 districts (distritos, singular: distrito). The provinces, with their capitals in parenthesis, are:Arequipa (Arequipa)Camaná (Camaná)Caravelí (Caravelí)Castilla (Aplao)Caylloma (Chivay)Condesuyos (Chuquibamba)Islay (Mollendo)La Unión (Cotahuasi)See also2001 southern Peru earthquakeExternal linksArequipa region official website (in Spanish)Photos of the entire region ArequipaCategory:Regions of Perube-x-old:Арэкіпа (дэпартамэнт) bg:Арекипа (регион) ca:Regió d'Arequipa da:Arequipa (region) de:Arequipa (Region) et:Arequipa piirkond es:Departamento de Arequipa fr:Région d'Arequipa id:Region Arequipa it:Regione di Arequipa la:Arequipa Regio lt:Arekipos departamentas nl:Arequipa (regio) nn:Arequipa-regionen pl:Region Arequipa pt:Arequipa (região) ro:Arequipa (regiune) qu:Ariqipa suyu sv:Arequipa (region) uk:Арекіпа (регіон)