For the football team see Upton Park F.C. The Boleyn Ground is the official name of Upton Park, the football stadium of West Ham United.HistoryThe club rented Green Street House and grounds in the Municipal Borough of East Ham from the Roman Catholic Church from around 1912.'East Ham: Manors and estates', A History of the County of Essex: Volume 6 (1973), pp. 8-14. URL: http://www.british-history.ac.uk/report.aspx?compid=42741. Date accessed: 24 June 2008 Green Street House was known locally as Boleyn Castle because of its imposing nature and an association with Anne Boleyn, who had either stayed at, or as some believe, owned the house. Hence renting the grounds of "Boleyn Castle" the name Boleyn Ground came into being. Today the ground is far more commonly known as Upton Park, after the area of London in which it is located.In August 1944, a V-1 flying bomb landed on the south-west corner of the pitch. This forced the team to play its games away from home while repairs were undertaken, but it did not affect performances as West Ham managed nine consecutive victories. Upon their return to the ground in December, they lost 1-0 to Tottenham Hotspur. The record attendance is 42,322, against Tottenham Hotspur in a Division One (Old) match on 17 October 1970, when the North and South Banks were terraced, as was the old 'Chicken Run' to the front of the East Stand. The record attendance at Upton Park since it has become an all-seater is 35,550, recorded against Manchester City on 21 September 2002 in a Premier League match.  The stadium has a total capacity of 40,003Stadium information | West Ham United | Tickets | Stadium Information&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; all seated. The stadium was subject to considerable redevelopment during the 1990s:1993: South Bank replaced by a new 9,000 seat, two tier stand named in honour of former captain Bobby Moore, who had died earlier that year. The stand also incorporates executive boxes as well as a digital clock.1995: North Bank replaced by a new 6,000 seat, two tier stand named the 'Centenary Stand'. The East Stand Lower is also made all seater.2001: West Stand replaced by a new 15,000 seat, two tier stand named the 'Dr. Martens Stand'. The stand also incorporates executive boxes on two levels as well as the West Ham United Hotel and Museum.Plans have been submitted to increase the capacity to approximately 40,500 through the building of a new larger East Stand, that will additionally use the spare space that was created when the Doctor Martens stand was built further West than the old West Stand. This will result in a fully enclosed stadium by joining the new stand to the Centenary Stand and the Bobby Moore Stand. Relegation to the Football League Championship in 2003 resulted in the development being delayed. However promotion to the FA Premier League via the Play-Offs in May 2005 resulted in the immediate re-submission of plans to Newham Council. The timing of the development is now dependent upon the club establishing itself again as a regular member of the Premier League.Throughout 2006, talk was rife of West Ham moving to the Olympic Stadium of the 2012 Olympics, with speculation increasing after new club chairman Eggert Magnusson confirmed he was interested in a move there. However, talks broke down between the club and the Olympic Committee after it was announced that the Stadium would be reduced to 25,000 all seater after the Olympic Games, which is over 10,000 less than the Boleyn Ground's current capacity, and that the stadium would be keeping its running track, leaving supporters further away from the pitch and killing the atmosphere within the stadium on matchday. Recent rumours have suggested that West Ham could move to a new stadium located at the Parcelforce depot near to West Ham Underground/mainline station. On 7 November, 2007 London mayor, Ken Livingstone announced that a new site had been identified for West Ham to build a new stadium.London unveils 2012 Olympic stadium - CNN.com&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;The StandsUpton Park has been an all-seater stadium since the early 1990s, after professional clubs had to meet new FA regulations for stadium safety after the Hillsborough Disaster in 1989. Upton Park has four main stands, which are named The Centenary Stand, The Bobby Moore Stand, The East Stand and The Dr. Martens Stand.Centenary StandThe Centenary Stand (formerly the North Bank) was built in 1995 for the clubs 100th season, after being formed in 1895 as Thames Ironworks. The stand holds around 6,000 seats, and has two tiers, with the Upper Tier seating known as the Family Section, as supporters can only purchase tickets up there if with a child. The lower tier behind the goal is split between both home and away fans. West Ham United initially give around 2,500-3,000 tickets to away supporters, going from the furthest side to the left of the bottom tier right up to behind the goal.  If the away side cannot sell all their tickets, they are returned and re-sold to home supporters, as there is big demand from West Ham fans to purchase seats in the Centenary Lower. Home fans in the Centenary Lower generally prefer to stand during games and sing throughout. It is known as one of the more atmospheric sections of the stadium, especially with the two sets of supporters next to each other (separated by stewards and police). There is also one of two large LCD screens situated in the corner between the Centenary Stand and the East Stand.East StandThe East Stand is situated on the far side of Upton Park, opposite the TV cameras. The stand is oldest and smallest stand in the stadium, being built in 1969 and holding only 5,000 seats due to its narrow width. The stand used to be known as the loudest and most intimidating stand at Upton Park back in the 1970s-80s, but since the advent of all-seater stadiums and the conversion of the old 'Chicken Run' terrace at the front of the East Stand to seating, and with the Upton Park pitch being moved further back from the East Stand nearer the new Dr. Martens Stand, the East Stand has seemed to have lost its famous atmosphere from past years. The real 'Chicken Run' was an old wooden stand (standing room only) on the east side of the pitch. It was surrounded by a similar sort of wire to that used on chicken runs and when you viewed it from the opposite side of the ground it looked just like a chicken run. It was knocked down and rebuilt in 1968. Until recently, the stand used to have the words DAGENHAM MOTORS written into the bottom tier through the seats, but was changed during the 2006/2007 season, despite the club splitting from their sponsorship with the car company back in 1997. The stand is also the only stand left at Upton Park to still have a small minority of wooden seats, in the middle of the Upper Tier. There were also plans to build a new East Stand soon after the Dr. Martens stand was completed in 2001, which would have seen the stadiums capacity rise from 35,647 to around 40,500, but the plans were put on hold after a combination of resistance from the local residents behind the stand and the club's relegation from the Premier League in 2003, which spiralled the club into debt at the time.Bobby Moore StandThe Bobby Moore Stand (formerly the South Bank), was built in 1993 and holds up to 9,000 spectators all seated. The stand was built originally to comply with new stadium all-seater regulations, and the name of the stand was decided after the death of the club's legendary captain from the successful mid-1960s side in the same year of construction. The stand has two tiers, and spells the words WEST HAM UNITED through the seats of both tiers. The lower tier of the Bobby Moore stand, like the Centenary Stand, is well known for its supporters' passion and the atmosphere they create through standing and singing. The stand has executive boxes situated between the Upper and Lower tiers, and includes a digital clock. The stand also had a small amount of renovation in 2001 after the construction of the new Dr. Martens Stands, with a new second LCD screen in the stadium being introduced between the two stands and new seats added on the end of the stand to join with the new Dr. Martens Stand.Dr. Martens StandThe Dr. Martens Stand (formerly the West Stand) is the newest and by far largest stand inside Upton Park, holding up to 15,000 spectators. The stand was built in 2001, bringing the stadium capacity up from around 26,000 to 35,647. The Dr. Martens Stand is the main stand in Upton Park, as it includes two tiers for paying home supporters, as well as two tiers of executive boxes separating the two tiers. The stand also hosts all of the club's offices, board rooms, suites, dressing rooms, official shop, club Museum and the new West Ham United Hotel. It is also the largest single football stand in London. The stand's main feature is seen from the exterior of the stadium, with two large turrets built onto the stand with the club badge embedded on both, going with the theme of the club's badge. The terrace also has two scoreboards at both corners joining with the Centenary and Bobby Moore Stands, displaying the score and time of the game in process. The stand is so large, it is visible from the A406 on the North Circular, where you can clearly make out the roof of the stand over the towerblocks in main East London. The stand was officially opened by HM The Queen, where Her Majesty was introduced to the manager and captain at the time, Glenn Roeder and Joe Cole.Ticket PricesWest Ham United have a match-day ticket system where they have both category A and category B matches, with prices varying over the two types of games. 5 matches (Arsenal, Chelsea, Liverpool, Manchester United and Tottenham Hotspur) are usually named as category A and the other 14 league matches announced as category B matches The club also run a system where Under 16s supporters receive three Kids For A Quid matches a season, where entry to the game is only £1 for them, as well as a further two JHC Member matches, where members of the Junior Hammers Club receive free tickets for two matches a season.References     Category:West Ham United F.C. Category:Sports venues in London Category:Football venues in England Category:Premier League venuesda:Upton Park de:Boleyn Ground es:Upton Park fr:Boleyn Ground ga:Upton Park it:Upton Park nl:Boleyn Ground ja:ブーリン・グラウンド no:Boleyn Ground pl:Boleyn Ground fi:Upton Park sv:Boleyn Ground simple:Boleyn Ground tr:Boleyn Ground