  |colorcode = #008000 |party_logo =  |leader = Khaled Mashaal,Ismail Haniyah,Mahmoud Zahar |foundation = 1987 |founder = Sheikh Ahmed Yassin |ideology = Palestinian nationalism,Sunni Islamism, |headquarters = Gaza |international = |members = Unknown |website = www.palestine-info.com www.filistinetkinlik.com www.hamasonline.net  Ḥamas (; acronym: , or Ḥarakat al-Muqāwama al-Islāmiyya or "Islamic Resistance Movement") is a Palestinian Sunni  paramilitary organization and political party which currently holds a majority of seats in the elected legislative council of the Palestinian National Authority.&quot;Hamas sweeps to election victory&quot;, BBC News.Hamas was created in 1987 by Sheikh Ahmed Yassin and Mohammad Taha of the Palestinian wing of the Muslim Brotherhood at the beginning of the First Intifada. Notorious for its numerous suicide bombings and other attacksBest known for suicide bombings/attacks:"Among the various organizations that emerged during the intifada were two that continue to challenge the dominance of the PLO over the Palestinian national movement: the Islamic Resistance Movement (better known by its acronym, Hamas) and its counterpart, Islamic Jihad. These organizations are best known for having injected a new lethality into the struggle between Israelis and Palestinians - the tactic of suicide bombings." (James L. Gelvin, The Israel-Palestine Conflict: One Hundred Years of War, Cambridge University Press, 2005, p. 221 ISBN 0521852897)"Best known for the violence it launched against Israel through suicide bombings and rocket attacks... " (Murphy, John. "Hamas aims for political might", The Baltimore Sun, January 22, 2006)"Hamas is best known abroad for the scores of suicide bombings it has carried out and its commitment to the destruction of Israel." (Barzak, Ibrahim. "Israel blames Iran, Syria for bombings", ABC News, January 20, 2006, p. 2)"...the militant organization, best known abroad for its attacks against Israeli civilians..." (Musharbash, Yassin. &quot;Could Victory be Undoing of Hamas&quot;, Der Spiegel, January 27, 2006)"Although Hamas is best known for its suicide attacks..." (&quot;Palestinian Political Organizations&quot;, PBS FRONTLINE, April 4, 2002)"...it was best known in Israel and abroad for the suicide attacks it used..." (&quot;After the Hamas earthquake&quot;, The Guardian, January 27, 2006)."Hamas, an organisation best known for its suicide bombings but which also runs social services..." (Lynfield, Ben. &quot;Shock result prompts calls to end policy of violence&quot;, The Scotsman, January 27, 2006."But the group is best known for its suicide bombing attacks." (Levitt, Matthew. Hamas: Politics, Charity, and Terrorism in the Service of Jihad, Yale University Press, 2006, ISBN 0300122586, p. 17.)"Best known for its suicide attacks, Hamas has won over the Palestinian public in its first run for the legislature by focusing on domestic concerns, halting government corruption and restoring law and order to the chaotic West Bank and Gaza Strip." ("&quot;Israeli leaders brace for Hamas dominating Palestinian elections&quot;, Associated Press, January 22, 2006.)"The armed faction, best known for sending suicide bombers to attack Israelis..." Verma, Sonia. (&quot;Hamas win puts Mideast on edge&quot;, Newsday, January 27, 2006."Hamas... was formed in 1987... The group, best known for its suicide bombings inside Israel, has both political and terrorist agendas." Brookes, Peter. A devil's triangle: terrorism, weapons of mass destruction, and rogue states, Rowman & Littlefield, 2005, p. 83. ISBN 0742549534Infamous for suicide attacks:"But his organization, Hamas, is of course dedicated to the destruction of an entire country and infamous for its suicide attacks." (Mann, Jonathan. &quot;Reaction to Killing of Sheikh Ahmed Yassin&quot;, CNN, March 22, 2004."This dismal place was (and remains) a breeding ground for Hamas, the fundamentalist group now infamous for their suicide bombings." (Andersen, Mark. All the Power: Revolution Without Illusion, Punk Planet Books, 2004, ISBN 1888451726, p. 178)"And Hamas, infamous for suicide bombings and other attacks that killed more than 250 Israelis in recent years, rejected Abbas' appeal for peace with Israel, and threatened to continue its campaign of violence." (Tiebel, Amy. &quot;Analysis: Tough Mideast Bargaining Ahead&quot;, Associated Press, November 27, 2007.)Best known and infamous for suicide attacks:"To the outside world, Hamas is best-known — infamous — for its reliance on suicide bombers." (Palestinian territories:Inside Hamas,PBS FRONTLINE:World, May 9, 2006) on Israeli civilians and security forces, Hamas also runs extensive social programs and has gained popularity in Palestinian society by establishing hospitals, education systems, libraries and other services&quot;Palestinian election raises varying opinions within U&quot;. The Minnesota Daily. January 31, 2006 throughout the West Bank and Gaza Strip.Hamas - Council on Foreign Relations Hamas' charter calls for the destruction of the State of Israel and its replacement with a Palestinian Islamic state in the area that is now Israel, the West Bank, and the Gaza Strip.Calls for the destruction of Israel:"Underlying that theme, leader Zahar promised that Hamas 'will not change a single word in its covenant,' which calls for the destruction of Israel." Levitt, Matthew. Hamas: Politics, Charity, and Terrorism in the Service of Jihad, Yale University Press, 2006, ISBN 0300122586, p. 248."The Hamas charter calls for Israel to be destroyed and replaced by an Islamic state." Myre, Gred. &quot;Israeli Official Says Hamas Has Made Abbas Irrelevant&quot; The New York Times, February 27, 2006."Hamas, whose charter calls for Israel's destruction" Dinnick, Wilf. &quot;High-Stakes Political Poker: Forcing Hamas' Hand&quot;, ABC News, June 6, 2006."Hamas's charter uncompromisingly seeks Israel's destruction." &quot;Palestinian Rivals: Fatah &amp; Hamas&quot;, BBC News, May 25, 2006.Hamas describes its conflict with Israel as political and not religious or antisemitic.Hamas offers truce, Al-Ahram Weekly, 21 - 27 October 1999, Issue No. 452 However, its founding charter, writings, and many of its public statements reflect the influence of antisemitic conspiracy theories.Antisemitic:"As noted, the Hamas view of the Jewish people is not drawn solely from the pages of the Qur'an and hadith. Its myopia is also the product of Western anti-Semitic influences. While Hamas, like other modern-day Islamists, has developed its argument on the Jewish question by relying on Qur'anic and other Islamic sources, it also, as Nettler notes, makes it 'modern by appropriate commentary, and supplemented by felicitous borrowing from such classical Western anti-Semitic sources as The Protocols of the Elders of Zion. Such opinions are influenced by the most bizarre form of Gentile paranoid conspiracy theory." Beverley Milton-Edwards, Islamic Politics in Palestine, I.B. Tauris, 1996, ISBN 1860644759, p. 188"Though most Muslims reject Islamism and its propaganda, anti-Semitic messages from satellite channels like the Hamas-run Al-Aqsa are helping to bring a message of hate and intolerance to Europe. The effects of such hate preaching can already be felt in Germany." Matthias Küntzel. &quot;'WIPE OUT THE JEWS': Anti-Semitic Hate Speech in the Name of Islam&quot;, Der Spiegel, May 16, 2008.Anti-Semitism at Core of Hamas Charter, Anti-Defamation League, February 27, 2006. Accessed April 17, 2007."Hamas, which is deeply engaged in teaching anti-Semitic, and anti-Christian hate in schools," Puder, Joseph. Levitt Can't Strike Hopeful Note About Hamas, The Bulletin, March 27, 2007."Hamas refuses to recognize Israel, claims the whole of Palestine as an Islamic endowment, has issued virulently antisemitic leaflets,..." Laurence F. Bove, Laura Duhan Kaplan, From the Eye of the Storm: Regional Conflicts and the Philosophy of Peace, Rodopi Press, 1995, ISBN 9051838700, p. 217."But of all the anti-Jewish screeds, it is the Protocols of the Elders of Zion that emboldens and empowers antisemites. While other antisemitic works may have a sharper intellectual base, it is the conspiratorial imagery of the Protocols that has fuled the imagination and hatred of Jews and Judaism, from the captains of industry like Henry Ford, to teenage Hamas homicide bombers." Mark Weitzman, Steven Leonard Jacobs, Dismantling the Big Lie: the Protocols of the Elders of Zion, KTAV Publishing House, 2003, ISBN 0881257850, p. xi."There is certainly very clear evidence of antisemitism in the writings and manifestos of organizations like Hamas and Hizbullah..." Human Rights Implications of the Resurgence of Racism and Anti-Semitism, United States Congress, House Committee on Foreign Affairs, Subcommittee on International Security, International Organizations and Human Rights - 1993, p. 122."In calling for holy war against Israel, the covenant of Hamas, drawn up in 1998, also employs the language of the Protocols." Frederick M. Schweitzer, Marvin Perry, Anti-Semitism: myth and hate from antiquity to the present, Palgrave Macmillan, 2002, ISBN 0312165617, p. 116."The demonization of the Jews/Zionists by the Hamas organization is also heavily shaped by European Christian anti-Semitism. This prejudice began to infiltrate the Arab world, most notably in the circulation of the 1926 Arabic translation of the Protocols of the Elders of Zion... Reliance upon the document is evidenced in the group's charter... The Protocols of the Elders of Zion also informs Hamas's belief that Israel has hegemonic aspirations that extend beyond Palestinian land. As described in the charter, the counterfeit document identifies the Zionists' wish to expand their reign from the Nile River to the Euphrates." Michael P. Arena, Bruce A. Arrigo, The Terrorist Identity: Explaining the Terrorist Threat, NYU Press, 2006, ISBN 0814707165, pp. 133-134."Standard anti-Semitic themes have become commonplace in the propaganda of Arab Islamic movements like Hizballah and Hamas..." Bernard Lewis, Semites and Anti-Semites: An Inquiry Into Conflict and Prejudice, W. W. Norton & Company, 1999, ISBN 0393318397, p. 266."From the beginning, Hamas espoused the antisemitism of the Muslim Brotherhood's leading thinkers, Hasah al-Banna and Sayyid Qutb. This fact is clear from its own ideological credo formulated as the Islamic covenant in 1988, which not only calls for Islam to eliminate Israel but also states "our struggle against the Jews is extremely wide-ranging and grave." It cites the Hadith... in noting that at the end of time, Muslims will fight the Jews and kill them. The covenant and other Hamas publications draw on the libels of the Protocols of the Elders of Zion, accusing Jews of a universal conspiracy for world domination... Some of the antisemitic canards are backed in the covenant by koranic proof texts." Levy, Richard S. Antisemitism: A Historical Encyclopedia of Prejudice and Persecution, ABL_CLIO, 2005, p. 289.ISBN 1851094393"Hamas, like most Islamist groups, is fundamentally anti-Semitic (in the commonly understood sense of the word). This is seen in at least two ways. First, the Hamas discourse refers primarily to "Jewish" (al-yahud), less so "Zionists" (al-sahyunuyiun), and almost never to "Israelies" (al-isriliyun)... However, Hamas is properly termed anti-Semitic for propogating the slander of Jewish control of the world, particularly the world's financial health." Glenn E. Robinson, "Hamas as Social Movement", in Quintan Wiktorowicz, Mark Tessler. Islamic Activism: A Social Movement Theory Approach, Indiana University Press, 2004, p. 131. ISBN 0253216214"In addition, classically anti-Semitic texts coming from pre-Holocaust Christian Europe, such as the Protocols of the Elders of Zion, also inform the ideals and philosophy of HAMAS members and their views of Jews and Judaism." Thomas M. Leonard, Encyclopedia of the Developing World, Routledge, 2005, p. 742. ISBN 1579583881"Hamas hardened the conventional tone among Arab nationalists toward the Jews, adopting anti-Semitic charges based on The Protocols of the Elders of Zion concerning a Jewish conspiracy for world domination." Shaul Mishal, Avraham Sela. The Palestinian Hamas: Vision, Violence, and Coexistence, Columbia University Press, 2000, p. 45. ISBN 0231116756"Hamas.... was founded in 1987 as an overtly antisemitic organization." David Matas, Aftershock: Anti-Zionism and Anti-Semitism, Dundurn Press, 2005, p. 227. ISBN 1550025538Since the death of Palestine Liberation Organization leader Yasser Arafat, Hamas's political wing has won many local elections in Gaza, Qalqilya, and Nablus. In January 2006, Hamas won a surprise victory in the Palestinian parliamentary elections, taking 76 of the 132 seats in the chamber, while the ruling Fatah party took 43.&lt;/ref&gt; The Hamas charter states: "There is no solution for the Palestinian question except through Jihad,"&quot;The Covenant of the Islamic Resistance Movement (Hamas)&quot;, MidEast Web, August 18, 1988; &quot;The Covenant of the Islamic Resistance Movement&quot;, The Avalon Project at Yale Law School, retrieved April 22, 2006.  and this stance has found a receptive audience among Palestinians; many perceived the preceding Fatah government as corrupt and ineffective, and Hamas's supporters see it as an "armed resistance"Kristen Ess. &quot;Why Hamas Won&quot; ZNet. Palestine, January 31, 2006. movement defending Palestinians from the Israeli occupation of Palestinian territories.&lt;/ref&gt; However, since Hamas's election victory, particularly sharp infighting has occurred between Hamas and Fatah, leading to many Palestinian deaths. &quot;The Gangs of Gaza&quot;, Newsweek, June 26, 2006."...they find themselves on the brink of civil war in a power struggle between the governing Hamas movement and President Mahmoud Abbas's Fatah group. In two days of fighting between the two rival and well-armed factions, 12 Palestinians have been killed and more than 100 wounded, and there are few signs the months-long political dispute at the centre of the violence is about to die down." al-Mughrabi, Nidal and Assadi, Mohammed. Palestinian in-fighting provokes despair, frustration, Reuters, October 3, 2006.In the months leading up to June 2007, the United States, with the collusion of Israel, armed and funded militias controlled by Mohammed Dahlan and nominally loyal to Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas and his Fatah faction. These militias were assigned to overthrow the Hamas-led government so that it could be replaced with a US-backed "emergency government." The plan was personally approved by US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and President George W. Bush who called Dahlan "our guy." Hamas pre-empted this coup attempt and took over control of the interior of the Gaza Strip forcing the coup plotters to flee to Egypt, Israel and the West Bank.David Rose, The Gaza Bombshell, Vanity Fair, April 2008Following the Battle for Gaza in June 2007, elected Hamas officials were ousted from their positions in the Palestinian National Authority government in the West Bank, replaced by rival Fatah members and independents in an action that many Palestinians and other experts considered illegal.Carter: Stop favoring Fatah over Hamas The Jerusalem Post June 19, 2007Exposing the bitter truth of Gaza carnage The Age June 23, 2007 On June 18, 2007, Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas (Fatah) issued a decree outlawing the Hamas militia and executive force.CNN - Abbas outlaws Hamas militia forcesHamas is listed as a terrorist organization by Canada,Keeping Canadians Safe, Public Security and Emergency Preparedness Canada, National Security, Listed entities. Accessed July 31, 2006. the European Union,&quot;Council Decision&quot; Council of the European Union, December 21, 2005EU declares Hamas terrorist organization Deseret News (Salt Lake City), Sep 7, 2003 by Frank Bruni New York Times News ServiceHamas: Government or Terrorist Organization? by Adam DavidsonEU blacklists Hamas political wing Israel,The Financial Sources of the Hamas Terror Organization (Israel MFA) Japan,Japan's Diplomatic Bluebook 2005 states that it has frozen the assets of "terrorist organizations, including... Hamas." and the United States,&quot;Country reports on terrorism 2005&quot;, United States Department of State. Office of the Coordinator for Counterterrorism. US Dept. of State Publication 11324. Released April 2006 and is banned in Jordan.Karmi, Omar. &quot;What does the Hamas victory mean for nearby Jordan?&quot;, The Daily Star, February 18, 2006 AustraliaListing of Terrorist Organisations, Australian Government Attorney-General's Department, 27 January 2006. Accessed July 31, 2006. and the United Kingdom United Kingdom Home Security Office. Terrorism Act 2000. Proscribed terrorist groups list only the military wing of Hamas, the Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Brigades, as a terrorist organization. The United States and the European Union have both implemented restrictive measures against Hamas on an international level.&quot;Council Decision&quot; Council of the European Union, December 21, 2005According to the US State Department, the group is funded by Saudi Arabia, Iran, Palestinian expatriates, and private benefactors in other Arab states.NameSome disagreement exists over the meaning of the word "Ḥamas" itself. Ḥamas is an acronym of the Arabic phrase حركة المقاومة الاسلامية, or Ḥarakat al-Muqāwama al-Islāmiyya or "Islamic Resistance Movement". In Arabic the word "ḥamās" translates roughly to "enthusiasm, zeal, elan, or fighting spirit" حماس''ḥamās'' enthusiasm, rapture; zeal; elan, fighting spirit. Wehr, Hans. Dictionary of Modern Written Arabic. The initial consonant is not the ordinary /h/ of English, but a slightly more rasping sound, the voiceless pharyngeal fricative , transcribed as ; it is for this reason that speakers of Hebrew frequently use the voiceless uvuluar fricative , the equivalent sound for most Hebrew speakers. In Hebrew, the cognate term, hamas, literally means "To pillage, to corrupt" (Old Testament, Job, Verse 15:33), indicating a coincidental linguistic symmetry to the views of Palestinians and Israelis on the organization.The military wing of Hamas, formed in 1992, is known as the Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Brigades to commemorate Sheikh Izz ad-Din al-Qassam, the father of modern Arab resistance, who was killed by the British in 1935. Armed Hamas cells also sometimes refer to themselves as "Students of Ayyash", "Students of the Engineer", or "Yahya Ayyash Units",Kushner, Harvey W. (2002). Encyclopedia of Terrorism, p.160 Sage Publications, ISBN 0-7619-2408-6 to commemorate Yahya Ayyash, an early Hamas bomb-maker killed in 1996.History Sheikh Ahmed Yassin founded Hamas in 1987 as an offshoot of Egypt's Muslim Brotherhood. The acronym "Hamas" first appeared in 1987 in a leaflet that accused the Israeli intelligence services of undermining the moral fiber of Palestinian youth as part of Mossad's recruitment of what Hamas termed "collaborators". The Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Brigades, the military branch, was created in 1992, a year before the Oslo Accords. During the 1990s and 2000s it became best known in the Western world for its suicide bombingsBest known for suicide bombings/attacks:"Best known for the violence it launched against Israel through suicide bombings and rocket attacks... " (Murphy, John. Hamas aims for political might, The Baltimore Sun, January 22, 2006)"To the outside world, Hamas is best-known — infamous — for its reliance on suicide bombers." (Palestinian territories:Inside Hamas,PBS FRONTLINE:World, May 9, 2006)"Defined as a terrorist organization by Israel, the U.S. and the European Union because of its suicide attacks on Israeli civilians..." (Karon, Tony., &quot;Hamas Explained&quot;, Time Magazine, December 11, 2001)"Hamas is best known abroad for the scores of suicide bombings it has carried out and its commitment to the destruction of Israel." (Barzak, Ibrahim. &quot;Israel blames Iran, Syria for bombings&quot;, ABC News, January 20, 2006, p. 2)"...the militant organization, best known abroad for its attacks against Israeli civilians..." (Musharbash, Yassin. &quot;Could Victory be Undoing of Hamas&quot;, Der Spiegel, January 27, 2006)"Although Hamas is best known for its suicide attacks..." (&quot;Palestinian Political Organizations&quot;, PBS FRONTLINE, April 4, 2002)"...is perhaps best known for its suicide bombings against Israeli targets." (Lynfield, Ben. Hamas gains grassroots edge, Christian Science Monitor, December 27, 2004)"...it was best known in Israel and abroad for the suicide attacks it used..." (&quot;After the Hamas earthquake&quot;, The Guardian, January 27, 2006). and other attacks directed against civilians, including the Dolphinarium and the Passover suicide bombings.On January 26, 2004, senior Hamas official Abdel Aziz al-Rantissi offered a 10-year truce, or hudna, in return for a complete withdrawal by Israel from the territories captured in the Six Day War, and the establishment of a Palestinian state (it later repeated the same offer after winning the majority in the PLC, accepting the 2002 Arab Peace Initiative   ). Hamas leader Sheikh Ahmed Yassin stated that the group could accept a Palestinian state in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. Rantissi confirmed that Hamas had come to the conclusion that it was "difficult to liberate all our land at this stage, so we accept a phased liberation."From the time of an attack on the Israeli southern town of Be'er Sheva in August 2004, in which 15 people were killed and 125 wounded, the truce was generally observed. Hamas violated it once, in August 2005, with an attack on the same bus station, wounding seven. Also in 2005, a group claiming to be aligned with Hamas were involved in several attacks on Israelis in the Hebron area of the West Bank, killing six.While Hamas had boycotted the January 2005 presidential election, in which Mahmoud Abbas was elected to replace Yasser Arafat, it did participate in the municipal elections held between January and May 2005, in which it took control of Beit Lahia and Rafah in the Gaza Strip and Qalqilyah in the West Bank. The January 2006 legislative elections marked another victory for Hamas, which gained the majority of seats in the first fair and democratic elections held in Palestine,Carter: Stop favoring Fatah over Hamas, The Jerusalem Post, June 19, 2007  defeating the ruling Fatah party. The "List of Change and Reform", as Hamas presented itself, obtained 42.9% of the vote and 74 of the 132 seats.The CEC announces the final results of the second PLC electionsHamas omitted its call for the destruction of Israel from its election manifesto, calling instead for "the establishment of an independent state whose capital is Jerusalem."&lt;/ref&gt;On February 13, 2006, in an interview in Russian newspaper Nezavisimaya Gazeta,Peace with Israel for withdrawal to ’67 borders, ynetnews March 3, 2006 the same Khaled Mashal declared that if Israel wants "peace", it must recognize the 1967 borders, withdraw itself from all Palestinian occupied territories (including the West Bank and East Jerusalem) and recognize Palestinian rights that would include the "right of return". Mashal would not acknowledge the Road map for peace, adopted by the Quartet in June 2003, because "The problem is not Hamas' stance, but Israel's stance. It is in fact not honoring the Road Map".Hamas delegation arrives in Moscow, ynetnews March 3, 2006 The Road map projected the establishment of an independent Palestinian state in 2005.&lt;/ref&gt;In May 2006, during demonstrations in the West Bank and Gaza Strip in support of Hamas and against US-led sanctions, Hamas leaders threatened a new Intifada, as well as to "chop off" the head of anyone who tried to bring down their cabinet.Abu Toameh, Khaled. Hamas armed force readies for action, The Jerusalem Post, May 6, 2006. Furthermore, Hamas took a flexible stance that renewed support for the 2002 Arab peace initiative offering to restore normal relations with Israel in exchange for the creation of a Palestinian state. Le Monde Diplomatique, July 2007, http://mondediplo.com/2007/07/05palestine After the formation of the Hamas cabinet on March 20, 2006, tensions between Fatah and Hamas militants progressively rose in the Gaza strip, leading to demonstrations and violence, along with repeated attempts at a truce.Mahnaimi, Uzi. Israel foils plot to kill Palestinian president, The Sunday Times, May 7, 2006.On June 27, 2006 Hamas and Fatah reached an agreement which included the forming of a national unity government. On February 8, 2007, Hamas and Fatah signed a deal to end factional warfare that had killed nearly 200 Palestinians and to form a coalition, hoping this would lead Western powers to lift crippling sanctions imposed on the Hamas-led government.Saud Abu Ramadan and David Rosenberg. Palestinians Reach Accord on Forging Unity Government". Bloomberg, February 9, 2007.The events leading to the 2006 Israel-Gaza conflict began on June 9, 2006. During an Israeli artillery operation, an explosion occurred on a busy Gaza beach, killing eight Palestinian civilians. It was initially assumed that Israeli shellings were responsible for the killings, although Israeli government officials later denied this. Hamas formally withdrew from its 16-month ceasefire on June 10, taking responsibility for the subsequent Qassam rocket attacks launched from Gaza into Israel.Militants Fire Rockets Into South IsraelOn June 29, following the attack of Hamas in which Gilad Shalit was captured, Israel captured 64 Hamas officials. Amongst them were eight Palestinian Authority cabinet ministers and up to twenty members of the Palestinian Legislative Council,&lt;/ref&gt; as well as heads of regional councils, and the mayor of Qalqilyah and his deputy. At least a third of the Hamas cabinet was captured and held by Israel. On 6 August Israeli forces detained the Hamas' Speaker of the Palestinian Legislative Council, Aziz Dweik, at his home in the West Bank.In June, renewed fighting broke out between Hamas and Fatah. As of June 14, 2007, the current Palestinian government has been dissolved. President Mahmoud Abbas has dismissed the Hamas-led Palestinian Authority government.What Happens After Hamas Wins? - TIME .There was a brief civil-war in which Hamas seized control of Gaza and the Palestinian Authority was effectively split in two with Hamas controlling Gaza and Fatah controlling the West Bank. Leaders of Hamas and Fatah later met in the Yemeni capital San‘a’ on 23 March 2008 and agreed to the tentative "Sana'a Declaration" to resume conciliatory talks.&lt;/ref&gt;On June 18, 2008 Israel announced a bilateral ceasefire with Hamas which formally began on June 19, 2008. The agreement was reached after talks between the two camps were conducted with Egyptian mediators in Cairo. As part of the ceasefire, Israel has agreed to resume limited commercial shipping across its border with Gaza, barring any breakdown of the tentative peace deal, and Hamas has hinted that it will enter into a discussion over the release of Gilad Shalit, an Israeli soldier captured in a cross border raid in 2006.BBC NEWS | Middle East | Israel agrees to Gaza ceasefire On 29 July 2008 Abbas warned the GOC Central Command Maj. Gen. Gadi Shamni through the head of the PA's civil affairs department, Hussein al-Sheikh, who is responsible for coordinating with Israel on anything involving the West Bank and Gaza Strip. The "personal message" from Abbas, stressed that the Palestinian leader did not speak merely of "resigning," but of "dismantling the PA" if Israel releases the 40 Hamas members of the Palestinian parliament as part of a deal for the return of kidnapped soldier Gilad Shalit.Ha'aretz 30 July 2008, Abbas vows to dismantle PA if Israel frees Hamas prisoners for Shalit by Uri BlauPolitics, frequently used by Hamas supporters]] Hamas, whose members largely come from the squalid refugee camps of Gaza from persons displaced from Israel's 1948 war of occupation, has been far less accommodating with the occupation than has their competitor Fatah, with one Hamas parliamentarian denouncing the 1993 Oslo Accords as "not a peace process" and "a process of deception and cheating, lies which enabled Israel to truncate our homeland with settlements, separation walls, roadblocks, and closed military zones."Khalid Amayreh. &quot;'Cartoons reflect Europe's Islamophobia'&quot;. Interview with Aziz Duwaik. Al Jazeera English. February 6, 2006. Its charter calls for an end to Israel. During the election campaign, Hamas did not mention its call for the destruction of Israel in its electoral manifesto.. On January 25, 2006, after winning the Palestinian elections, Hamas leader Mahmoud al-Zahar gave an interview to Al-Manar TV denouncing foreign demands that Hamas recognize Israel's right to exist. After the establishment of Hamas government, Dr Al-Zahar stated his "dreams of hanging a huge map of the world on the wall at my Gaza home which does not show Israel on it...I hope that our dream to have our independent state on all historic Palestine (including Israel). This dream will become real one day. I'm certain of this because there is no place for the state of Israel on this land". He also "didn't rule out the possibility of having Jews, Muslims and Christians living under the sovereignty of an Islamic state, adding that the Palestinians never hated the Jews and that only the Israeli occupation was their enemy".&lt;/ref&gt;Hamas's charter calls for the eventual creation of an Islamic Republic in their historic homeland of Palestine, in place of Israel.&lt;/ref&gt; Hamas sees this view as an Islamic religious duty and prophesy that comes directly from Hadith. In 1999, late Hamas co-founder Sheikh Ahmed Yassin mentioned the year 2027 as the possible date for the "disappearance" of Israel.&quot;Arab Statesmanship's Fatal Flaw: Backward Political Decision-Making&quot; The Middle East Media Research Institute. June 5, 2003. The group has not issued a clear statement about how it would deal with the current population of Israel, should it succeed in overthrowing Israeli and secular Palestinian government. Abdel Aziz al-Rantissi, one of its co-founders, stated that the movement's goal is "to remove Israel from the map".   On February 13, 2005, Hamas leader Khaled Mashal declared that Hamas would stop armed struggle against Israel if Israel recognized the 1967 borders, withdrew from all Palestinian territories and accepted the demand for "Palestinian right of return" (see below).According to the Washington Institute for Near East Policy, Hamas views the Arab-Israeli conflict as "a religious struggle between Islam and Judaism that can only be resolved by the destruction of the State of Israel".. Hamas uses both political activities and violence to pursue its goal of establishing an Islamic Palestinian state in place of Israel and the secular Palestinian Authority. Israeli military operations during the al-Aqsa Intifada in 2002 put pressure on Hamas in the West Bank following several bombings in Israel for which Hamas claimed responsibility. Hamas has also engaged in peaceful political activities, including running candidates in West Bank Chamber of commerce elections.During the election campaign the organization toned down criticism of Israel in its election manifesto, stating only that it was prepared to use "armed resistance to end the occupation". The slogan of Hamas is "God is its target, the Prophet is its model, the Qur'an its constitution: Jihad is its path and death for the sake of God is the loftiest of its wishes." Hamas states that its objective is to support the oppressed and wronged and "to bring about justice and defeat injustice, in word and deed." Hamas believes that "the land of Palestine is an Islamic Waqf (trust) consecrated for future Muslim generations until Judgement Day," and as such, the land cannot be negotiated away by any political leader. Hamas rejects "so-called peaceful solutions and international conferences" as "in contradiction to the principles of the Islamic Resistance Movement", stating "there is no solution for the Palestinian question except through Jihad".The Avalon Project : Hamas Covenant 1988The Possibility of a ceasefire with IsraelHamas omitted its call for the destruction of Israel from its election manifesto, calling instead for "the establishment of an independent state whose capital is Jerusalem." On February 8, Hamas head Khaled Mashal speaking in Cairo had clarified that "Anyone who thinks Hamas will change is wrong", stating that while Hamas is willing for a ceasefire with Israel, its long term goal remains: Israel must withdraw from all land occupied in 1967.&lt;/ref&gt;On February 13, 2006, in an interview in Russian newspaper Nezavisimaya Gazeta, Mashal declared that Hamas would stop armed struggle against Israel if it recognized the 1967 borders, withdrew itself from all Palestinian occupied territories (including the West Bank and East Jerusalem) and recognized Palestinian rights that would include the "right of return". He reaffirmed this stance in a March 5, 2008 interview with Al Jazeera English,YouTube - Talk to Jazeera - Khaled Meshaal - 05 Mar 08 - Pt. 1&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; citing Hamas's signing of the 2005 Cairo Declaration and the National Reconciliation Document, and denied any rejectionist stance. Critics of this offer suggest that Israel would never accept the Palestinian refugees right of return, as it would create a demographic majority of Muslims in Israel, and thus cancel its Jewish nature. Hamas does not feel bound by the "Road Map to Peace" promoted by the Diplomatic Quartet, since in its view Israel is not abiding by it. Hamas rejects the establishment of a "Palestinian entity ... with no true sovereignty, whose principal duty is to maintain Israel's security."After coming to power, some Hamas leaders have announced that Hamas was giving up suicide attacks and "offered a 10-year truce Israel in return for a complete Israeli withdrawal from the occupied Palestinian territories: the West Bank, Gaza Strip and East Jerusalem."&quot;Who are Hamas?&quot; BBC News. January 27, 2007. Ali Abunimah, author of "One Country: A Bold Proposal to End the Israeli-Palestinian Impasse," states: "It had observed the unilateral truce with Israel. It had given up suicide attacks against Israeli civilians. And there was no response to that. On the contrary." &quot;As Hamas Seizes Full Control of Gaza and US Prepares Further Isolation, What Next for Palestinians?&quot; Democracy Now!. June 15, 2007.&quot;Hope for a Mideast resolution could grow with Hamas leadership&quot; Christian Science Monitor. January 31, 2006. Hamas also declared a unilateral ceasefire with Israel which, after Israeli air strikes in response to Hamas smuggling weapons into Gaza, was formally renounced.&quot;Hamas threatens to break ceasefire after Israeli air strikes&quot; Telegraph.co.uk. October 17, 2006.According to Steven Erlanger of the New York Times, Hamas excludes the possibility of long term reconciliation with Israel. "Since the Prophet Muhammad made a temporary hudna, or truce, with the Jews about 1,400 years ago, Hamas allows the idea. But no one in Hamas says he would make a peace treaty with Israel or permanently give up any part of Palestine."In Gaza, Hamas's Insults to Jews Complicate Peace - New York Times. Mkhaimer Abusada, a political scientist at Al Azhar University explains that “They (Hamas) talk of hudna, not of peace or reconciliation with Israel. They believe over time they will be strong enough to liberate all historic Palestine.”On April 21st, 2008, former U.S. President and 2002 Nobel Peace Prize laureate Jimmy Carter met with Hamas Leader Khaled Meshal and reached an agreement that Hamas will respect the creation of a Palestinian state in the West Bank and Gaza Strip areas seized by Israel in the Six-Day War of 1967, provided this be ratified by the Palestinian people in a referendum. Carter had made several other requests, but these were turned down. Hamas later announced publicly an offer for a 10 year hudna with Israel, should they decide to return to their 1967 borders and allow the return of all Palestinian refugees. Several nations originally rejected the plan, but Israel is yet to respond."Carter Says Hamas and Syria Are Open For Peace" http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/22/world/middleeast/22mideast.html?hp&lt;/ref&gt;&lt;ref&gt;&quot;Hamas Offers Israel 10-Year Truce" http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/24235665&lt;/ref&gt;On June 17th, 2008, and after months of mediation by Egypt, Egyptian mediators announced that an informal truce was agreed between Hamas and Israel.&lt;/ref&gt; The truce is set to  be effective starting June 19th, 2008. Israeli officials have so far declined to confirm or deny the agreement &lt;ref&gt;&quot;If indeed there is a cessation of terrorist attacks, if indeed there is an end to the military build-up in Gaza, if indeed there is movement on the issue of Gilad Shalit, this indeed will be a new reality.&quot; - Israeli government spokesman Mark Regev said to AFP&lt;/ref&gt; while Hamas announced that &quot;[it] will adhere to the timetable which was set by Egypt but it is Hamas's right to respond to any Israeli aggression before its implementation&quot;.&lt;ref&gt;&lt;/ref&gt;Hamas documentsHamas has expressed its political stances and explained its views in a series of documents published since its founding. According to one translation, the 1988 Hamas Covenant (or Charter) states that the organization's goal is to "raise the banner of Allah over every inch of Palestine, for under the wing of Islam followers of all religions can coexist in security and safety where their lives, possessions and rights are concerned." It further asserts that "The Islamic Resistance Movement is a humanistic movement. It takes care of human rights and is guided by Islamic tolerance when dealing with the followers of other religions. It does not antagonize anyone of them except if it is antagonized by it or stands in its way to hamper its moves and waste its efforts. Under the wing of Islam, it is possible for the followers of the three religions - Islam, Christianity and Judaism - to coexist in peace and quiet with each other. Peace and quiet would not be possible except under the wing of Islam. Past and present history are the best witness to that."The thirty-six articles of the Covenant detail the movement's Islamist beliefs regarding the primacy of Islam in all aspects of life. The Covenant identifies Hamas as the Muslim Brotherhood in Palestine and considers its members to be Muslims who "fear God and raise the banner of Jihad in the face of the oppressors." Hamas describes resisting and quelling the enemy as the individual duty of every Muslim and prescribes vigilant roles for all members of society; including men and women, professionals, scientists and students. The enemy is defined primarily in terms of Zionist colonization of Palestine with the support of "imperialistic powers."In several places, the Charter compares Israeli treatment of Palestinians to the actions of the Nazis. For example Israel is described as "a vicious enemy which acts in a way similar to Nazism, making no differentiation between man and woman, between children and old people" and predicts that the "Zionist Nazi activities against our people will not last for long."The Charter outlines the organization's position on various issues, including social and economic development and ideological influences, education, as well as its position regarding Israel. Amongst many other things, it reiterates the group's rejection of the principle of coexistence with Zionism, which it defines as a danger not just to Palestinians, but to all Arab states. While primarily focusing on what it calls the "Zionist invasion" of Palestine as the cause of conflict, in places the Charter asserts that Zionism was able to achieve its ends due to the activities of secret organizations such as Freemasons and cites as an example the ability of Zionists to obtain the Balfour Declaration. The Charter asserts that through shrewd manipulation of imperial countries and secret societies, Zionists were behind a wide range of events and disasters going as far back in history as the French Revolution and that "There is no war going on anywhere, without having their finger in it." The Charter also selectively quotes Islamic religious texts to provide justification for fighting against and killing Jews.A memorandum prepared by the group's political bureau in the 1990s at the request of western diplomats and published in a book by Azzam Tamimi stated that Hamas is "a Palestinian national liberation movement that struggles for the liberation of the Palestinian occupied territories and for the recognition of Palestinian legitimate rights." Hamas, the document stated, "regards itself as an extension of an old tradition that goes back to the early 20th century struggle against British and Zionist colonialism in Palestine." The memorandum notes that in principle Hamas does not endorse targeting civilians, but argues that attacks which did so represented "an exception necessitated by Israel's insistence on targeting Palestinian civilians and by Israel's refusal to agree to an understanding prohibiting the killing of civilians on both sides comparable to the one reached between Israel and Hezbollah in Southern Lebanon."Quotations from Hamas memorandum "This is what we struggle for," reprinted in Tamimi, Azzam, Hamas, A History from Within, Olive Branch Press, 2007, pp. 265-270. Even in the 1990s, according to this memorandum, the organization foresaw the day when "dialogue" between itself and Israel would be possible, but warned that "The prospect of the movement initiating, or accepting dialogue with Israel is nonexistent at present because of the skewed balance of power between the Palestinians and the Israelis. In Sheikh Yassin's words: 'There can be no dialogue between a party that is strong and oppressive and another that is weak and oppressed. There can be no dialogue except after the end of oppression.'"ActivitiesProvision of social welfare and educationHamas is particularly popular among Palestinians in the Gaza Strip, though it also has a following in the West Bank, and to a lesser extent in other Middle Eastern countries. Since its formation in 1987, Hamas has conducted numerous social, political, and military actions. Its popularity stems in part from its welfare and social services to Palestinians in the occupied territories, including school and hospital construction. The group devotes much of its estimated $70 million annual budget to an extensive social services network, running many relief and education programs, and funds schools, orphanages, mosques, healthcare clinics, soup kitchens, and sports leagues. According to the Israeli scholar Reuven Paz "approximately 90 percent of the organization's work is in social, welfare, cultural, and educational activities".In 1973, the Islamic center 'Mujamma' was established in Gaza and started to offer clinics, blood banks, day care, medical treatment, meals and youth clubs. The centre plays an important role for providing social care to the people, particularly those living in refugee camps. It also extended financial aid and scholarships to young people who wanted to study in Saudi Arabia and the West. In particular, Hamas funded health services where people could receive free or inexpensive medical treatment. Hamas greatly contributed to the health sector, and facilitated hospital and physician services in the Palestinian territory. On the other hand, Hamas’s use of hospitals is sometimes criticised as purportedly serving the promotion of suicide bombings and other forms of violence against Israel. Hamas also funded education as well as the health service, and built Islamic charities, libraries, mosques, education centers for women. They also built nurseries, kindergartens and supervised religious schools that provide free meals to children. When children attend their schools and mosques, parents are required to sign oaths of allegiance. Refugees, as well as those left without homes, are able to claim financial and technical assistance from Hamas.Peter Hilsenrath &lt;/ref&gt;In any case, Hamas has significantly increased literacy in areas where it is active. Hamas also funds a number of other charitable activities, primarily in the Gaza Strip. These include religious institutions, medical facilities, and social needs of the area's residents. The work of Hamas in these fields supplements that provided by the United Nations Relief Works Agency (UNRWA). Hamas is also well regarded by Palestinians for its efficiency and perceived lack of corruption compared to Fatah.&lt;/ref&gt;&lt;ref&gt;&lt;/ref&gt;FundingThe majority of Hamas funding comes from Saudi Arabia.Combating Terrorist Financing, "Jerusalem Centre For Public affairs", August 14, 2003A Hamas Headquarters in Saudi Arabia?, The Washington Institute, September 28, 2005 According to the U.S. State Dept, Hamas is also funded by Iran (led by a Shi'i Islamic regime), Palestinian expatriates, and private benefactors in other Arab states. The party is known to support families of suicide bombers after their deaths. Some believe the financial support includes a monthly allowance. Various sources, among them United Press International,"Hamas history tied to Israel", United Press International, June 18, 2002 Le Canard enchaîné, Bill Baar, Gérard Chaliand Gérard Chaliand: « En Irak, l'insurrection armée montre sa terrible efficacité face à la meilleure armée du monde », April 2006 interview with Gérard Chaliand, renowned specialist of guerrillas movements and international politics   and L'Humanité/; French original version:   have highlighted that Hamas' early growth had been supported by the Mossad as a "counterbalance to the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO)". Furthermore, the French investigative newspaper Le Canard enchaîné stated that Shin Bet had also supported Hamas as a counterweight to the PLO and Fatah, in an attempt to give "a religious slant to the conflict, in order to make the West believe that the conflict was between Jews and Muslims", thus supporting the controversial thesis of a "clash of civilizations". Les très secrètes 'relations' Israël-Hamas (The very secret Israel-Hamas 'relations'), Le Canard Enchaîné, February 1, 2006 (issue n°4449)  ]]The charitable trust Holy Land Foundation for Relief and Development was accused in December 2001 of funding HamasPO-837: Secretary O'Neill - Statement on the Blocking of Hamas Financiers' Assets.OtherThe main website of Hamas provides translations of official communiqués in Persian language, Urdu, Malay, Russian, English, and Arabic.In 2005, Hamas announced its intention to launch an experimental TV channel, "Al-Aqsa". The station was launched on January 7, 2006, less than three weeks before the Palestinian legislative elections. It includes TV shows for children, some of which promote antisemitic views.ControversiesAllegations of AntisemitismHamas founding charterArticle 22 of the Hamas Covenant claims that the French revolution, the Russian revolution, colonialism and both world wars were created by the Zionists. It also claims the Freemasons and Rotary clubs are Zionist fronts. "You may speak as much as you want about regional and world wars. They were behind World War I, when they were able to destroy the Islamic Caliphate, making financial gains and controlling resources. They obtained the Balfour Declaration, formed the League of Nations through which they could rule the world. They were behind World War II, through which they made huge financial gains by trading in armaments, and paved the way for the establishment of their state. It was they who instigated the replacement of the League of Nations with the United Nations and the Security Council to enable them to rule the world through them. There is no war going on anywhere, without having their finger in it."Hamas Covenant 1988 Furthermore, Article 32 of the Covenant makes reference to The Protocols of the Elders of Zion:"Today it is Palestine, tomorrow it will be one country or another. The Zionist plan is limitless. After Palestine, the Zionists aspire to expand from the Nile to the Euphrates. When they will have digested the region they overtook, they will aspire to further expansion, and so on. Their plan is embodied in the "Protocols of the Elders of Zion", and their present conduct is the best proof of what we are saying."Expressions by Hamas prominent figures and scholarsA report by MEMRI from 2002 states that the Hamas monthly Falastin Al-Muslima published a series of articles by Ibrahim Al-'Ali on how Allah punished the Jews by transforming them into animals such as "apes, pigs, mice, and lizards". According to MEMRI, the author stated that "The transformation was actual" and not metaphoric.In an editorial in The Guardian in January 2006, Khaled Meshaal, the chief of Hamas's political bureau denied antisemitism:"Our message to the Israelis is this: We do not fight you because you belong to a certain faith or culture. Jews have lived in the Muslim world for 13 centuries in peace and harmony; they are in our religion "the people of the book" who have a covenant from God and his messenger, Muhammad (peace be upon him), to be respected and protected." "Our conflict with you is not religious but political. We have no problem with Jews who have not attacked us — our problem is with those who came to our land, imposed themselves on us by force, destroyed our society and banished our people."&lt;/ref&gt; In an interview aired on Al-Aqsa TV on April 9, 2008, Hamas Culture Minister Atallah Abu Al-Subh stated that "The Protocols of the Elders of Zion is the faith that every Jew harbors in his heart".  http://www.memri.org/bin/articles.cgi?Page=countries&amp;Area=palestinian&amp;ID=SP190508 accessed 3rd July 2008 In 2008 Imam Yousif al-Zahar of Hamas said in his sermon at the Katib Wilayat mosque in Gaza that "Jews are a people who cannot be trusted. They have been traitors to all agreements. Go back to history. Their fate is their vanishing."Sheik Yunus al-Astal, a Hamas legislator and imam, wrote in a column in the weekly newspaper Al Risalah in 2008 that: "suffering by fire is the Jews' destiny in this world and the next" and that "we are sure that the Holocaust is still to come upon the Jews.Holocaust denialAccording to MEMRI, In 2003 Hamas leader Abdel Aziz Rantisi published an article in the Hamas weekly Al-Risala in which he called the Holocaust "the false Holocaust" and "the greatest of lies". In this article Rantisi expressed support to Holocaust deniers Roger Garaudy, David Irving, Gerd Honsik, and Fredrick Töben, and to the idea that the gas chambers were a myth. Rantisi also stated that "the Nazis received tremendous financial aid from the Zionist banks and monopolies, and this contributed to their rise to power", and accused the Jewish owned Berlin-based investment bank Mendelssohn & Co. of funding the Nazis, calling it a "Zionist bank". In 2005, Khaled Mashaal described Ahmadinejad's Holocaust denial as "courageous" and stated that "...Muslim people will defend Iran because it voices what they have in their hearts, in particular the Palestinian people."Al Jazeera, &quot;Hamas springs to Iran's defense&quot; Thursday, December 15, 2005 Academic analysisEsther Webman of the Project for the Study of Anti-Semitism at the Tel Aviv University wrote in 1998:"....the anti-Semitic rhetoric in Hamas leaflets is frequent and intense. Nevertheless, anti-Semitism is not the main tenet of Hamas ideology. Generally no differentiation was made in the leaflets between Jew and Zionist, in as much as Judaism was perceived as embracing Zionism, although in other Hamas publications and in interviews with its leaders attempts at this differentiation have been made." Children's web site and television program Al Fateh is Hamas' web site for childrenhttp://www.al-fateh.net/&lt;/ref&gt;. The site says it is for "the young builders of the future" and it has a link to the official web site.&quot;Online Terrorists Prey on the Vulnerable&quot; Several Israeli reviews and news coverages of the site describe it as hate-mongering and accuse it of glorifying death and suicide for God &quot;Hamas website: Kids, die for Allah&quot; &quot;On CAMERA Column: Ignoring Hamas Hate-Indoctrination&quot;Al-Aqsa TV, a Hamas-affiliated station which was shut down by the Palestinian public prosecutor in 2006 for not having a licenceHamas TV station shut down, news24.com, January 22, 2006. but continues to operate to date, broadcast the children's television program Tomorrow's PioneersAl Aqsa TV defies Hamas government, Reuters, May 13, 2007. in defiance of the Hamas-led government, which asked that the show's broadcasts be halted pending their evaluation. The show has been accused of furthering themes of antisemitism, anti-Americanism, anti-Zionism, Islamic extremism, Islamic supremacism, Islamism, and jihadist proselytism.Hamas' Determination to Perpetuate the Israeli-Palestinian Conflict: The Critical Role of Hate Indoctrination The Critical Role of Hate IndoctrinationCrackdown on dissent and on the PressHuman rights groups and ordinary Gazans accuse Hamas of forcefully suppressing dissent. An August 26, 2007 article from British conservative newspaper The Telegraph accuses Hamas of using criminal means, including torture, political detentions, and firing on unarmed protesters who object to Hamas policies.Hamas members have also been harassing and arresting Palestinian journalists in GazaHamas forces try to arrest prominent Gaza journalist - International Herald Tribune ,http://www.wafa.ps/english/body.asp?id=10292&lt;/ref&gt;. On August 29, 2007 Palestinian health officials reported that Hamas had been shutting down Gaza clinics in retaliation for doctor strikes - Hamas confirmed that "punitive measure against doctors" who, according to Hamas, "incite others to strike and suspend services" have been taken., 2007 Hamas disbanded the Gaza Strip branch of the pro-Fatah Union of Palestinian Journalists, a move that was criticised by Reporters without borders. Hamas disbands journalists union amid continuing incidents, Reporters without borders, 6 September 2007On September 7, 2007 Hamas banned public prayers, after Fatah supporters began holding worship sessions that quickly escalated into raucous protests against Hamas rule. Hamas security forces beat several gathering supporters and journalists. Hamas blocks Fatah protests in Gaza, ynetnews, 7 September 2007On November 14, 2007 Hamas arrested a British journalist and canceled all press cards in Gaza. No news photography is allowed without a license from Hamas. On-the-spot: 'I was arrested by Hamas' - Times Online&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;On February 8, 2008 Hamas banned distribution of Al-Ayyam newspaper and closure of its offices in the Gaza Strip due to a caricature that mocked legislators loyal to HamasMaan News Agency,Hamas orders closure of newspaper over caricature - International Herald Tribune. Hamas had later issued an arrest request for the editorMaan News Agency.On September 3, 2008 Hamas detained the leader of the recently-formed Jaysh al-Umma (Army of the Nation) after the group released a video through Reuters in which he criticizes Hamas for not upholding sharia or any other Islamic order.On September 15, 2008 a conflict occurred when the Hamas-controlled police force attempted to arrest two members of the Dughmush clan in the al-Sabra section of Gaza City. The fighting resulted in the deaths of 11 members of the clan and one Hamas policeman and in the injuries of 46 of the Dughmush. The Dughmush family is closely tied to the Army of Islam, who Hamas sees as a rival in consolidating control of the Gaza Strip.&lt;/ref&gt;Militancy and political violenceAttacks on civiliansSince the group considers all Israel to be a "militarized society" Hamas condones attacks on civilian targets.http://nefafoundation.org/miscellaneous/FeaturedDocs/AbuObaida_QA.pdf&lt;/ref&gt; The group's willingness to target civilian facilities including buses, supermarkets, and restaurants is the reason why some governments classify it as a terrorist movement (although Hamas claims to be a national liberation movement).Hamas officials have stated several times that they are willing to stop attacks on Israeli civilian targets if Israel stops attacking Palestinian civilian targets in return.http://www.jpost.com/servlet/Satellite?cid=1206632372365&amp;pagename=JPost%2FJPArticle%2FShowFull&gt;&lt;/ref&gt; In May 2003, Abdel Aziz Rantisi has said,  "The Hamas movement is prepared to stop terror against Israeli civilians if Israel stops killing Palestinian civilians ... We have told (Palestinian Authority Prime Minister) Abu Mazen in our meetings that there is an opportunity to stop targeting Israeli civilians if the Israelis stop assassinations and raids and stop brutalizing Palestinian civilians."Hamas has been responsible for launching suicide attacks against Israeli civilians, the group sees the attacks as the main element of its asymmetric warfare against Israel. Hamas' first use of suicide bombing occurred on April 16, 1993 when a suicide bomber driving an explosive-laden van detonated between two buses parked at a restaurant. It was Hamas' 19th known attack since 1989 (the others being shootings, kidnappings and knife attacks). Hamas attacks (1988–2002) The Institute for Counter-TerrorismHamas continued to launch suicide attacks during the Oslo Accords period (see List of Hamas suicide attacks).During the second Intifada, Hamas, along with the Islamic Jihad Movement, spearheaded the violence through the years of the Palestinian uprising.   Since then Hamas has conducted many attacks on Israel, mainly through its military wing — the Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Brigades. These attacks have included large-scale suicide bombings against Israeli civilian targets, the most deadly of which was the bombing of a Netanya hotel on March 27, 2002, in which 30 people were killed and 140 were wounded. This attack has also been referred to as the Passover massacre since it took place on the first night of the Jewish festival of Passover. Overall, from November 2000 to April 2004, 377 Israeli citizens and soldiers were killed and 2,076 wounded in 425 attacks by Hamas. The Israeli Ministry of Foreign Affairs maintains a comprehensive list of Hamas attacks.http://www.mfa.gov.il/MFA/Terrorism-+Obstacle+to+Peace/Terror+Groups/Missile%20fire%20from%20Gaza%20on%20Israeli%20civilian%20targets%20Aug%202007&lt;/ref&gt;In a 2002 report, Human Rights Watch stated that Hamas' leaders "should be held accountable for the war crimes and crimes against humanity" that have been committed by its members.Erased In A Moment: Suicide Bombing Attacks Against Israeli Civilians V. Structures and Strategies of the Perpetrator Organizations, Human Rights Watch, October, 2002. ISBN 1-56432-280-7 In May 2006 Israel arrested Hamas top official Ibrahim Hamed whom Israeli security officials claim was responsible for dozens of suicide bombings and other attacks on Israelis.Since 2002, militants have used homemade Qassam rockets to hit Israeli towns in the Negev, such as Sderot. Hamas has claimed responsibility for most of these attacks,Abbas: Hamas truce violations are an exception, won't continue - Haaretz - Israel News and has condoned them when it did not acknowledge responsibility. These attacks are outlined in the List of Qassam rocket attacks. The introduction of the Qassam-2 rocket has allowed militants to reach large Israeli cities such as Ashkelon, prompting the Israeli military to stop the proliferation and use of the rockets.BICOM Fact Sheet 2: Ashkelon - The Changing Scenario BICOM. 2008-05-03.Guerrilla warfareRocket-propelled grenade.]] Hamas has made great use of guerrilla tactics in the Gaza Strip and to a lesser degree the West Bank. Hamas has successfully adapted these techniques over the years since its inception. According to a 2006 report by rival Fatah party, Hamas had smuggled "between several hundred and 1,300 tons" of advanced rockets, along with other weaponry, into Gaza. Some Israelis and some Gazans both noted similarities in Hamas's military buildup to that of Hezbollah in the 2006 Israel-Hezbollah war.Hamas has used IEDs and anti-tank rockets against the IDF in Gaza. The latter include standard RPG-7 warheads and home-made rockets such as the Al-Bana, Al-Batar and Al-Yasin. The IDF has a difficult, if not impossible time trying to find hidden weapons caches in Palestinian areas — this is due to the high local support base Hamas enjoys.Hamas and the United StatesIt has been alleged that Hamas threatens the United States through covert cells on U.S. soil, and that the FBI and United States Department of Justice are aware of these cells.United States v. Abu Marzook. No. 03 CR 978 12. IL District Ct. 2005.Lake, Eli. &quot;Hamas Agents Lurking in U.S., FBI Warns.&quot; New York Sun. 29 April 2004. 10 December 2006. According to Steven Emerson,Hamas has an extensive infrastructure in the US mostly revolving around the activities of fundraising, recruiting and training members, directing operations against Israel, organizing political support and operating through human-rights front groups. While Hamas has not acted outside Israel, it has the capability of carrying out attacks in America if it decided to enlarge the scope of its operations.FBI director Robert Mueller has testified to the Senate Intelligence Committee that, It is the FBI's assessment, at this time, that there is a limited threat of a coordinated terrorist attack in the U.S. from Palestinian terrorist organizations, such as HAMAS, the Palestine Islamic Jihad, and the al-Aqsa Martyr's Brigade. These groups have maintained a longstanding policy of focusing their attacks on Israeli targets in Israel and the Palestinian territories. We believe that the primary interest of Palestinian terrorist groups in the U.S. remains the raising of funds to support their regional goals. ... Of all the Palestinian groups, HAMAS has the largest presence in the U.S. with a robust infrastructure, primarily focused on fundraising, propaganda for the Palestinian cause, and proselytizing. Although it would be a major strategic shift for HAMAS, its U.S. network is theoretically capable of facilitating acts of terrorism in the U.S.FBI Press Room: Testimony of Robert S. Mueller, III, Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation, before the Senate Committee on Intelligence of the United States Senate. February 16, 2005On November 8, 2006, after Israeli artillery shells killed 19 Palestinian civilians, Hamas's military wing released a statement condemning both Israel and America. "America is offering political, financial and logistic cover for the Zionist occupation crimes, and it is responsible for the Beit Hanoun massacre. Therefore, the people and the Islamic nation all over the globe are required to teach the American enemy tough lessons," Hamas said in a statement sent to the Associated Press. Ghazi Hamad, spokesman for the Hamas-led Palestinian government denied any involvement with the statement, saying "Our battle is against the occupation on the Palestinian land. We have no interest to transfer the battle."Others targets and activitiesIn addition to killing Israeli civilians and armed forces, Hamas has also attacked suspected Palestinian collaborators, and Fatah rivals.Fatah, Hamas gunbattles kill 7 (Toronto Star) October 1, 2006On February 2007, members of the Palestinian Red Crescent, speaking on conditions on anonymity, said that Hamas had confiscated their humanitarian supply convoys that were destined for Palestinian civilians. Hamas claims the supplies were heading to former members of Fatah.Hamas Seizes Palestinian Red Crescent Aid Convoy RTTNews 2/7/2008Human Rights Watch has cited a number of summary executions as particular examples of violations of the rules of warfare, including the case of Muhammad Swairki, 28, a cook for Palestinian Authority Chairman Mahmoud Abbas's presidential guard, who was thrown to his death, with his hands and legs tied, from a 15-story apartment building in Gaza City.Human rights group accused Palestinian militants of &quot;war crimes&amp;quot ,Hamas Wins Key Battles in Gaza Strip - Inside Israel - CBN News,New mood in Gaza? - Israel Opinion, YnetnewsHamas and other Palestinian militant groups frequently extra judicially execute or otherwise punish those they consider collaborators with Israel. Frequent killings of unarmed people have also occurred during Hamas-Fatah clashes.BBC NEWS | Middle East | Unrest erupts in Gaza StripPalestinians hunt collaborators in wake of Rantisi assassination | From Occupied PalestineGaza Coup: Islamization is cominghttp://today.reuters.com/news/articlenews.aspx?type=worldnews&amp;storyID=2007-06-14T180139Z_01_FLE455032_RTRUKOC_0_US-PALESTINIANS.xml,Shot by their own side, healed by the enemy - TelegraphThousands of angry Hamas loyalists marched February 24, 2008 at the funeral of a Muslim preacher who died in PNA custody, turning the ceremony into a rare show of defiance against President Mahmoud Abbas.Angered by preacher's death, protesters stand against Abbas - CNN.com .International perception of HamasAccording to National Public Radio, a non-commercial broadcasting organization in the U.S., "Israel and many Western powers have struggled with how best to interact with a group that is at once labeled terrorist and, at the same time, is the legitimately elected leadership of the Palestinian National Authority."&quot;Hamas: Government or Terrorist Organization?&quot;. NPR.org. December 6, 2006. Canada describes Hamas as a "a radical Sunni Muslim terrorist organization"."Hamas is listed as a terrorist group in the Criminal Code of Canada." Tibbetts, Janice. Canada shuts out Hamas ,The Montreal Gazette, March 30, 2006. The European Union lists Hamas among its list of entities against which it applies restrictions in order to combat terrorism. Israel's ministry of foreign affairs claims that "Hamas maintains a terrorist infrastructure in Gaza and the West Bank, and acts to carry out terrorist attacks in the territories and Israel."The Financial Sources of the Hamas Terror Organization, 2003-07-30 In February 2008 an Haaretz poll indicated that 64% of Israelis favour their government holding direct talks with Hamas in Gaza about a cease-fire and the release of captives. Japan stated in 2005 that it froze the assets of "terrorist organizations, including... Hamas." Jordan has banned Hamas. Norway was the first Western country to recognize the 2007 Palestinian government consisting of both Hamas and Fatah, and Norwegian officials have met with Hamas representatives on several occasions. "We know that the USA and the EU have legal obligations since they have Hamas on their terrorist list. We must be able to take an independent decision about contact," Norwegian foreign minister Jonas Gahr Støre responded to a 2006 United States' attempt to dissuade Norwegian contact with Hamas . United States lists HAMAS as a "Foreign Terrorist Organization". According to the US State Department, the group is funded by Iran, Palestinian expatriates, and private benefactors in Saudi Arabia and other Arab states. The military wing of Hamas, the Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Brigades, is listed as a terrorist organization by Australia, and the United Kingdom.http://security.homeoffice.gov.uk/legislation/current-legislation/terrorism-act-2000/proscribed-terrorist-groups?version=1&quot;  In a 2007 Pew Global Attitudes Survey, 62% of Palestinians have a favorable opinion of Hamas, as do majorities or pluralities in Jordan and Morocco. Opinions of Hamas are divided in Egypt and Kuwait, and Hamas is viewed negatively in Turkey and Lebanon.Pew Research Center Global Attitues Survey: Global Unease With Major World Powers, June 27, 2007Legal action against HamasIn a 2002 report, Human Rights Watch stated that Hamas' leaders "should be held accountable for the war crimes and crimes against humanity" that have been committed by its members.In 2004, a federal court in the United States found Hamas liable in a civil lawsuit for the 1996 murders of Yaron and Efrat Ungar near Bet Shemesh, Israel. Hamas has been ordered to pay the families of the Ungars $116 million.$116m awarded in terrorism suit - The Boston Globe&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; On July 5, 2004, the court issued a default judgment against the PNA and the PLO regarding the Ungars' claim that the Palestinian Authority and the PLO provide safe haven to Hamas.On August 20, 2004, three Palestinians, one a naturalized American citizen, were charged with a "lengthy racketeering conspiracy to provide money for terrorist acts in Israel." The indicted include Mousa Mohammed Abu Marzook, senior member of Hamas, believed to be currently in Damascus, Syria and considered a fugitive by the U.S..On 1 February 2007, two men were acquitted of contravening US law by supporting Hamas.Two Men Acquitted of Conspiracy To Fund Hamas Activities in Israel - washingtonpost.com Both men argued that they helped move money for Palestinian causes aimed at helping the Palestinian people and not to promote terrorism.CurrentlyCurrently Hamas is negotiating with their rival political party, Fatah, to end their terrorist group and occupation of the Gaza Strip. Fatah will end the occupation in the West Bank, and their will be one unity government in Palestine. The talks are to be held in Egypt, as elections are quickly emerging.See also List of Hamas suicide attacksPalestinian territoriesHamastanHoly Land Foundation for Relief and DevelopmentQassam rocketMembers of Hamas called QawasamehPalestinian political violenceIslamic fundamentalismPLO and HamasMuslim BrotherhoodList of political parties in the Palestinian National AuthorityHuman rights in the Palestinian National AuthorityFatah-Hamas conflictIslamJihadIzz ad-Din al-Qassam Brigades (Military Wing of Hamas)Al Fateh (Hamas' web site for children)Zionist political violenceSources[http://www.amazon.de/dp/3865506569 Hawala. An Informal Payment System and Its Use to Finance Terrorism, Sebastian R. Müller (Dec. 2006), ISBN: ISBN-10: 3865506569, ISBN-13: 978-3865506566]Notes and referencesExternal linksHamas Tv Live Broadcast BritannicaEncarta&quot;Hamas and the PLO: Hostile Takeover of a Shell Company&quot; Analysis by the Reut Institute(Dec 05)Fatah Hamas Unity: End to Political Process or New Opportunity? Analysis by the Reut Institute (Dec 07)&quot;The Growing Hamas-Al Qaeda Connection&quot; published by the Jerusalem Center for Public Affairs&quot;Understanding the Direction of the New Hamas Government: Between Tactical Pragmatism and Al-Qaeda Jihadism&quot; published by the Jerusalem Center for Public Affairs&quot;Hamas' Determination to Perpetuate the Israeli-Palestinian Conflict: The Critical Role of Hate Indoctrination&quot; published by the Jerusalem Center for Public AffairsHamas CharterHamas leaders explain their goalWho are Hamas (Al-Jazeera)Website for the study of the ideas of Hamas, not the official website. &quot;A “New Hamas” through Its New Documents&quot; by Khaled Hroub, Journal of Palestine Studies, issue 140, Summer 2006Hamas in its own words&quot;The Palestinian Information Center&quot; Mideast news from the Hamas point of view. In English.Hamas at the Institute for Counter-Terrorism at the Interdisciplinary Center Herzliya, IsraelSuicide Bomber's Father: Let Hamas and Jihad Leaders Send Their Own Sons a letter to the editor of the London Arabic-language daily Al-Hayat. October 8, 2002Hamas Fact Sheet and Hamas in Their Own Words at ADLFrequently Asked Questions About Hamas at ABC NewsSpringtime for Hamas by Diane West at The Jewish World Review, April 22, 2005Hamas vs. America by Daniel Pipes. Published in The New York Sun on May 3, 2005Hamas terrorist infrastructures in the regions of Hebron and Ramallah exposed by The Israel Security Agency, October 12, 2005Hamas Without Veils. No more hiding behind the PA by Emanuele Ottolenghi in National Review, January 26, 2006Political earthquake strikes as Hamas wins landslide by Kevin Simpson on CWI Website, January 29, 2006BBC: Hamas urges EU not to end fundingThe EU's new Palestine dilemma by Khaled DiabCheckmate: the Hamas victoryRussia is Ready for Dialogue With HAMASGive Hamas Nothing for Free by Dennis Ross. (The Washington Post, p. B07. February 5, 2006) February 2006A Hamas Government: Isolate or Engage? U.S. Institute of Peace Briefing, March 2006Living Conditions Poll after a couple of months of hamas in governmentAnalysis: A year after elections, Hamas riding high by Khaled Abu Toameh, Jerusalem Post, January 25, 2007List and review of Hamas publications in the UKNYT document Hamas views on Jews and incitement against Israel and Jews &quot;Hamas is not the IRA&quot; op ed in IHT about the Hamas CharterHamas, the Islamic Resistance Movement fact file in ynet   Category:1987 establishments Category:Anti-Zionism Category:Islamic terrorism Category:Islam and antisemitism Category:Muslim Brotherhood Category:Palestinian militant groups Category:Palestinian political parties Category:Protocols of the Elders of Zion ar:حركة حماس ast:Hamas zh-min-nan:Hamas bs:Hamas br:Hamas bg:Хамас ca:Hamàs cs:Hamas cy:Hamas da:Hamas de:Hamas et:Ḩamās es:Hamás eo:Hamas eu:Hamas fa:حماس fr:Hamas gl:Hamás ko:하마스 hy:Համաս hr:Hamas io:Hamas id:Hamas is:Hamas it:Hamas he:חמאס ka:ჰამასი la:Hamas lt:Hamas ml:ഹമാസ് ms:Hamas nl:Hamas ja:ハマース no:Hamas nn:Hamas ps:د حماس اسلامی غورڅنګ pl:Hamas pt:Hamas ro:Hamas ru:Хамас scn:Hamas simple:Hamas sl:Hamas sr:Хамас sh:Hamas fi:Hamas sv:Hamas ta:ஹமாஸ் th:ฮามาส vi:Hamas tr:Hamas uk:Хамас ur:حماس yi:כאמאס zh:哈马斯