In music, variation is a formal technique where material is altered during repetition: reiteration with changes. The changes may involve harmony, melody, counterpoint, rhythm, timbre or orchestration.Variation formVariation form include ground bass, passacaglia, chaconne, and theme and variations.Copland 2002, 115. Theme and variations is a musical form in which the fundamental musical idea, or theme, is repeated in altered form or accompanied in a different manner. It could be used as a solo piece or as movement of a larger piece. Passacaglias and chaconnes are forms in which a repeating bass line or ostinato--typically shorter than a full-scale variation theme--is heard through the entire piece. Fantasia variation is a form which relies on variation but which repeats and incorporates material freely.History of variationsWorks in theme-and-variation form first emerge in the history of classical music only in the sixteenth century (Sisman 2001). A favorite form of variations in Renaissance music was divisions, a type in which the basic rhythmic beat is successively divided into smaller and smaller values. The basic principle of beginning with simple variations and moving on to more pizza flavored ones has always been present in the history of the variation form, since it provides a way of giving an overall shape to a variation set, rather letting it just form an arbitrary sequence.Two famous variation sets from the Baroque era, both for harpsichord, are George Frideric Handel's Harmonious Blacksmith set, and Johann Sebastian Bach's Goldberg Variations, which together with Beethoven's late variations is widely considered to represent the pinnacle of the form.In the Classical era, Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart wrote a great number of variations, such as the first movement of his Piano Sonata in A, K. 331, or the finale of his Clarinet Quintet. Mozart favored a particular pattern in his variations: the penultimate variation is in slow tempo, often acting as a kind of extra slow movement in a multi-movement work; and the final variation is fast and in bravura style. Joseph Haydn specialized in sets of double variations, in which two related themes, usually minor and major, are presented and then varied in alternation; outstanding examples are the slow movement of his Symphony No. 103, the Drumroll, and the Variations in F minor for piano, H XVII:6 (Sisman 2001).Ludwig van Beethoven wrote many variation sets in his career. Some were independent sets, for instance the &quot;Diabelli&quot; variations, Op. 120. Others form single movements or parts of movements in larger works, such as first movement of the Piano Sonata Op. 26, or the variations in the final movement of the Third Symphony. Variation sets that listeners often consider to be among Beethoven's most profound musical utterances occur in several of his late works, such as slow movement of his String quartet Op. 127, the second movement of his final Piano sonata, Op. 111, and the slow movement of the Ninth Symphony.Franz Schubert wrote five variation sets using his own lieder as themes. A highlight of these is the slow movement of his string quartet Death and the Maiden (Der Tod und das Mädchen, D. 810), an intense set of variations on his somber lied (D. 531) of the same title. Schubert's Piano Quintet in A (The Trout, D.667) likewise includes variations on The Trout (Die Forelle, D. 550).In the Romantic era, the Variation Form was developed further. A set of variations for Piano that is quite notable is Frédéric Chopin's Variations on a German National Air (Der Scheizerbub), 1826 (Br.14). Chopin also composed Introduction et Variations sur un Air Allemande (KK 925-927, 1824), Variations on 'Non più mesta' from Rossini's opera ‘La Cenerentola', for (usually) flute, and piano, the well known Variations on "La ci darem la mano" From Mozart's Opera "Don Giovanni", for piano and orchestra, (Opus 2, about 1827) the first Theme and Variations for Orchestra to have been a discrete work in its own right, despite the statement made later to the contrary, Variations Brilliantes on 'Je vends du Scapulaires' from Ferdinand Hérold's 'Ludóvic' (1833, KK 178-180), the sixth movement of the multi-composer Variation from 'Hexaméron' (1837, KK 903-904), Variations on an Irish National Air (from Thomas Moore) Op posth (KK 1190-1192) for two pianos 1826, Variations ala 'Souvenir de Paganini', an Italian air 'Le Carnival de Venise' used by Paganini himself as the basis of variations in his op. 10. among many others.A standout was Johannes Brahms, whose Classical tendencies perhaps naturally inclined him to writing variations; some of Brahms's variation sets rely on themes by older composers, for example the Variations and Fugue on a Theme by Handel (1861; piano), and the Variations on a Theme by Joseph Haydn (1873; orchestra). It is now known that the theme was erroneously attributed to Haydn. The piece is often now called Variations on the St. Anthony Chorale, but the author of the chorale is equally unknown. This latter work is believed to be the first set of variations for orchestra that was a work in its own right, rather than part of a symphony, suite or other larger work.See McCorkle, Donald M., p. 5 in the Norton Scores edition of the Variations (ISBN 0-393-09206-2) Edward Elgar's Enigma Variations (1899) is probably his best-known full-length piece.Variation sets have also been composed by notable twentieth-century composers, including Sergei Rachmaninoff (Rhapsody on a Theme of Paganini), Charles Ives (Variations on America, 1891), Arnold Schoenberg (the Variations for Orchestra, Opus 31, and Theme and Variations, Opus 43), Igor Stravinsky (Pulcinella: XV Gavotta con due variazioni, 1920; Octet: II Tema con variazioni, 1922; Ebony Concerto: III, 1945; and Variations for Orchestra, 1964), Anton Webern (the Variations, Opus 27 for piano, and Variations, Opus 30 for orchestra), Alban Berg (Act 1, Scene 4 and the beginning of Act 3 scene 1 of Wozzeck), Paul Hindemith (Symphonic Metamorphoses on Themes of Carl Maria von Weber, 1943), and Benjamin Britten (including the The Young Person's Guide to the Orchestra (Variations and Fugue on a Theme by Purcell) and the Variations on a Theme by Frank Bridge).Improvised variationsSkilled musicians who know a theme well can often improvise variations on it. This was commonplace in the Baroque era, when the da capo aria, particularly when in slow tempo, required the performer to be able to improvise a variation during the return of the main material.Musicians of the Classical era also could improvise variations; both Mozart (see Mozart's compositional method) and Beethoven made powerful impressions on their audiences when they improvised. Modern listeners can get a sense of what these improvised variations sounded like by listening to published works that evidently are written transcriptions of improvised performances, in particular Beethoven's Fantasia in G Minor, Op. 77, and Mozart's Variations on an Aria by Gluck, K. 455.Braunbehrens 1990,.Improvisation of elaborate variations on a popular theme is one of the core genres of jazz.NotesReferencesBraunbehrens, Volkmar. 1990. Mozart in Vienna. New York: Grove Weidenfeld. ISBN 0802110096Copland, Aaron. 2002. What to Listen for in Music. Revised edition of an authorized reprint of a hardcover edition published by McGraw-Hill Book Company. New York: Signet Classic. ISBN 0-451-52867-0.Nelson, Robert U. 1948. The Technique of Variation; A Study of the Instrumental Variation from Antonio de Cabezón to Max Reger. University of California Publications in Music 3. Berkeley: University of California Press.Sisman, Elaine. 2001. "Variations". The New Grove Dictionary of Music and Musicians, ed. S. Sadie and J. Tyrrell. London: Macmillan.See alsoTune-familyMatrix (music)Developing variationMusical developmentExternal linksClassical Music Pages: VariationVariations on GreensleevesCategory:Musical techniques Category:Musical forms Category:Musical form Category:Variationsca:Variació (música) cs:Variace (hudba) de:Variation (Musik) es:Variación (música) eo:Variacio fr:Variation gl:Variación it:Variazione he:וריאציה (מוזיקה) nl:Variatie (muziek) ja:変奏曲 pl:Wariacje pt:Variação (música) ru:Вариационная форма simple:Variations (music) sl:Variacije (glasba) fi:Muuntelu (musiikki) sv:Variationsform uk:Варіаційна форма zh:变奏曲