.]] Walpurgis Night is a traditional religious holiday (celebrated by Pagans, Roman Catholics, and SatanistsAbout the Church of Satan alike) celebrated on April 30 or May 1 in large parts of Central and Northern Europe.The name of the holiday is Walpurgisnacht in German and Dutch, Valborgsmässoafton in Swedish, Vappu in Finnish, Volbriöö in Estonian, Valpurgijos naktis in Lithuanian,Valpurģu nakts or Valpurģi in Latvian, čarodějnice or Valpuržina noc in Czech, chódotypalenje Lower Sorbian, chodojtypalenje in Upper Sorbian.The current festival is in most countries celebrating it named after Saint Walpurga, born in Devon about 710. Due to her holy day falling on the same day, her name became associated with the celebrations. Walpurga was honored in the same way that Vikings had celebrated spring and as they spread throughout Europe, the two dates became mixed together and created the Walpurgis Night celebration. Early Christianity had a policy of 'Christianising' pagan festivals so it is perhaps no accident that St. Walpurga's day was set to May 1st.OriginsHistorically Walpurgisnacht is derived from various Pagan spring customs. In the Norse tradition, Walpurgisnacht is considered the "Enclosure of the Fallen".Thorsson, E. "Northern Magic", page 48. Llewellyn, 2002. It commemorates the time when Odin died to retrieve the knowledge of the runes, and the night is said to be a time of weakness in the boundary between the living and the dead. Bonfires were built to keep away the dead and chaotic spirits that were said to walk among the living then.Norse Holidays and Festivals This is followed by the return of light and the sun as celebrated during May Day.Saint Walpurga herself was a niece of Saint Boniface and, according to legend, a daughter of the Saxon prince St. Richard. Together with her brothers she travelled to Franconia, Germany, where she became a nun and lived in the convent of Heidenheim, which was founded by her brother Willibald. Walpurga died of an illness shortly after moving the mortal remains of her brother Catholic Encyclopedia: Saint Walburga, Saint Winibald on 25 February 779. She is therefore listed in the Roman Martyrology under 25 February. Her relics were transferred on 1 May so that she might be buried beside Willibald, and that day carries her name in, for example, the Finnish and Swedish calendars.Patron Saints Index: Saint Walburga Catholic Encyclopedia: Saint Walburga.GermanyIn Germany, Walpurgisnacht (or Hexennacht, meaning Witches' Night), the night from April 30 to May 1, is the night when allegedly the witches hold a large celebration on the Blocksberg and await the arrival of Spring.Walpurgis Night (in German folklore) the night of April 30 (May Day's eve), when witches meet on the Brocken mountain and hold revels with their gods..."Brocken is the highest of the Harz Mountains of north central Germany. It is noted for the phenomenon of the Brocken spectre and for witches' revels which reputedly took place there on Walpurgis night.The Brocken Spectre is a magnified shadow of an observer, typically surrounded by rainbow-like bands, thrown onto a bank of cloud in high mountain areas when the sun is low. The phenomenon was first reported on the Brocken.—Taken from Oxford Phrase & Fable.A scene in Goethe's Faust Part One is called "Walpurgisnacht", and one in Faust Part Two is called "Classical Walpurgisnacht".In some parts of northern coastal regions of Germany, the custom of lighting huge Beltane fires is still kept alive, to celebrate the coming of May, while most parts of Germany have a derived Christianized custom around Easter called "Easter fires".In rural parts of southern Germany it is part of popular youth culture to play pranks on Walpurgisnacht, e.g. tampering with neighbors' gardens, hiding possessions, or spraying graffiti on private property. These pranks occasionally result in serious damage to property or bodily injury.In Berlin traditional leftist Mayday riots usually start at Walpurgis Night in the Mauerpark in Prenzlauer Berg. There is a similar tradition in the Schanzenviertel district of Hamburg. Though in both cases the situation has significantly calmed down in the past few years.Adolf Hitler, with several members of his staff (including Joseph Goebbels), committed suicide on Walpurgisnacht, April 30/May 1, 1945. At the time of his suicide, the Russians had already closed in about several hundred meters on his bunker and Hitler did not want to be captured alive. However, the coincidence of the day has been used to argue for an occult initiation of Hitler.Sweden s, participating in the traditional Walpurgis Night celebration with song outside the Castle in Uppsala. The silhouette of the cathedral towers may be seen in the background. To the right are banners and standards of the student nations. Image from c. 1920.]] In Sweden, Walpurgis ( or Valborg) is one of the de facto public holidays during the year. The forms of celebration in Sweden vary in different parts of the country and between different cities. One of the main traditions in Sweden is to light large bonfires, a custom which is most firmly established in Svealand, and which began in Uppland during the 18th century. An older tradition from Southern Sweden was for the younger people to collect greenery and branches from the woods at twilight, which were used to adorn the houses of the village. The expected reward for this task is to be paid in eggs.The tradition which is most widespread throughout the country is probably singing songs of spring. Most of the songs are from the 19th century and were spread by students' spring festivities. The strongest and most traditional spring festivities are also found in the old university cities, like Uppsala and Lund where both current and graduated students gather at events that take up most of the day from early morning to late night on April 30, or "sista april" ("The last day of April") as it is called in Lund and elsewhere throughout the country. There are also newer student traditions like the carnival parade, The Cortège, which has been held since 1909 by the students at Chalmers in Gothenburg.Finland" during Helsinki's Vappu.]]Today in Finland, Walpurgis Night (Vapunaatto, Valborgsmässoafton) is, along with New Year's Eve and Juhannus, the biggest carnival-style festivity that takes place in the streets of Finland's towns and cities. The celebration is typically centered on plentiful use of sparkling wine and other alcoholic beverages. The student traditions are also one of the main characteristics of "Vappu". From the end of the 19th century, "Fin de Siècle", and onwards, this traditional upper class feast has been co-opted by students attending university, already having received their student cap. Many people who have graduated from lukio, and thus traditionally assumed as university students or alumni, wear the cap. One tradition is drinking sima, whose alcohol content varies.In the capital Helsinki and its surrounding region, fixtures include the capping of the Havis Amanda, a nude female statue in Helsinki, and the biannually alternating publications of ribald matter called Äpy and Julkku. Both are sophomoric; but while Julkku is a standard magazine, Äpy is always a gimmick. Classic forms have included an Äpy printed on toilet paper and a bedsheet. Often the magazine has been stuffed inside standard industrial packages such as sardine-cans and milk cartons. The festivities also include a picnic on May 1st, which is sometimes prepared in a lavish manner, particularly in Ullanlinnanmäki in Helsinki city.The Finnish tradition is also a shadowing of the Socialist May Day parade. Expanding from the parties of the left, the whole of the Finnish political scene has adopted Vappu as the day to go out on stumps and agitate. This does not only include center and right-wing parties, but also other insititutions like the church have followed suit, marching and making speeches. In Sweden it is only the left-wing parties which use May 1 for political activities, while others observe the traditional festivities. Left-wing activists who were active in the 1970s still party on May Day. They arrange carnivals and the radio plays old leftist songs from the 1970s.Traditionally May 1st is celebrated by a picnic in a park (Kaivopuisto or Kaisaniemi in the case of Helsinki). For most, the picnic is enjoyed with friends on a blanket with good food and sparkling wine. Some people, however, arrange extremely lavish picnics with pavilions, white table cloths, silver candelabras, classical music and lavish food. The picnic usually starts early in the morning, and some hardcore party goers continue the celebrations of the previous evening without sleeping in between. Some Student organisations have traditional areas where they camp every year and they usually send someone to reserve the spot early on. As with other Vappu traditions, the picnic includes student caps, sima, streamers and balloons.This, overall, is Finland's main festival of the yearEstoniaIn Estonia, Volbriöö is celebrated on the night from April 30 to May 1, with the following day (May 1) being a public holiday of lesser importance called "Spring Day" (Kevadpüha). Yet Volbriöö itself has considerable importance as one of the main reasons to party across the country. Influenced by German culture, the night originally stood for the gathering and meeting of witches. Nowadays some people still dress up as witches and wander the streets in a carnival-like mood.Yet for most Estonians, Volbriöö has become a reason to celebrate the arrival of Spring with huge outdoor drinking and partying throughout the night. This is especially strongly honoured in Tartu, the university town in Southern Estonia. For Estonian students in student corporations (fraternities and sororities), the night starts with a traditional march on the streets of Tartu, followed by visiting of each others' corporation houses all night, drinking lots of beer as they stay with the hosts and move along the streets from one place to another. The following day (May 1) is known as Kaatripäev (Hanover Day, derived from the German word 'Kater' meaning 'Hangover').Satanic observancesAs a night when magical powers are supposedly heightened, various occultists have celebrated Walpurgis Night in the various ways described above. Witches' covens have traditionally held the night sacred. It is thus one of the three holidays recognized by Anton LaVey's Church of Satan. In addition to the occult significance the date carries, it also marks the formation of the Church of Satan in the year 1966, or I Anno Satanas. This date is commonly celebrated by Satanists with private or group rituals, and private parties or family celebrations to commemorate the foundation of the Church.References in modern cultureAnime and comicsThe hentai anime series Bible Black contains references to Walpurgis Night important to the plot.In XXXenophile Collection Volume 4, the last story has a book entitled "It's Walpurgis Night Charlie Brown".In the Visual Novel Fate/stay night, one of the bad end scenes is called Walpurgis Night.The video game Shadow of Memories was known as The Day and Night of Walpurgisnacht while still in development, and later Days of WalpurgisTheatre and BalletThe second act of Edward Albee's play Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? is titled "Walpurgisnacht."In Sight Unseen by Donald Margulies, Walpurgisnacht is the controversial painting by Jonathan Waxman of an interracial couple fornicating in a cemetery.Walpurgisnacht is the title of a Russian ballet, whose setting takes place on Walpurgisnacht. The ballet choreographed by Leonid Lavrovsky, with music by Gounod was performed by the Bolshoi Theatre's ballet Company. There exist film footage of some excerpts from it, danced by Maya Plisetskaya. There may also exist rather more footage of Raisa Struchkova dancing it.Books, short stories and other literatureThe last chapter of book 5 of Thomas Mann's novel The Magic Mountain is named "Walpurgis Night."Gustav Meyrink wrote a novel called Walpurgis Night in 1917, about a carnivalesque popular uprising in Prague against the city's longtime Germanic monarchs.In the novel Quicksilver by Neal Stephenson, a key character observes Walpurgisnacht celebrations in 17th century Germany.In the second half of Roger Zelazny's The Chronicles of Amber fantasy series, Walpurgisnacht is the day on which yearly attempts are made on Merlin's (Son of Corwin) life, by the son of Brand.The Illuminatus! Trilogy of books by Robert Shea and Robert Anton Wilson makes repeated references to Walpurgisnacht.In the popular children's books Mr Majeika by English author Humphrey Carpenter, the Mr Majeika, a wizard, originally comes from the land of Walpergis, where all witches and wizards reside. Those who fail their exams, like Mr Majeika, are sent to Britland (England) to be teachers.In Mikhail Bulgakov's book The Master and Margarita (Мастер и Маргарита), Satan hosts a Grand Ball on Walpurgis Night.In JK Rowling's Harry Potter series, the group of Dark Wizards called Death Eaters were originally named the Knights of Walpurgis, an obvious pun on Walpurgis Night or Walpurgisnacht.JK Rowling interview in full BBC 19 June, 2003Thomas Pynchon's novel, Gravity's Rainbow, has several scenes set during Walpurgis Night 1945, and also makes references to such matters as the Brocken Spectre.Act Two of Edward Albee's play Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? is entitled 'Walpurgisnacht'.The Bram Stoker short story Dracula's Guest takes place on Walpurgisnacht: "Walpurgis Night was when, according to the belief of millions of people, the devil was abroad &ndash; when the graves were opened and the dead came forth and walked. When all evil things of earth and air and water held revel."In the H. P. Lovecraft story "The Dreams in the Witch House", Walpurgis Night is referred to as "the Witches' Sabbath", when Hell's blackest evil roamed the earth and all the slaves of Satan gathered for nameless rites and deeds.The English novelist and journalist Angela Carter makes reference to Walpurgisnacht in the short stories entitled "The Werewolf" and "The Company of Wolves" from the compilation of short stories The Bloody Chamber.The last major work of the Viennese satirist Karl Kraus was an anti-Nazi polemic titled Die dritte Walpurgisnacht ("The Third Walpurgis Night").Ogden Nash in his poem "The Tale of the Thirteenth Floor" referred to "this Walpurgis Night" for strange happenings in the hotelMusicSongs whose titles include or make reference to Walpurgis Night include:"Angel Rebellion", by the German power metal band Edguy"Walpurga's Night", by the Italian Vampire/Black Metal band Theatres Des Vampires"Repent Walpurgis", by the English progressive rock band Procol Harum."War Pigs" by Black Sabbath was originally titled "Walpurgis" (and while the music was the same, the lyrics were entirely different)."Wall Purges Night", an obvious pun on Walpurgisnacht, by the expatriate English musical group the Legendary Pink Dots."Walpurgisnacht", by Schandmaul."Walpurgis Night", by Running Wild (band)."Walpurgis Night," by Murray Attaway (lead singer of Guadalcanal Diary (band).)"Walpurgis Night",an album by Stormwitch."Walpurgis Night Music", Matt Cameron's publishing name while in Soundgarden"Under The Spell"' by Mercyful Fate (about a man who by accident witnesses the walpurgis night rituals and is caught by them and placed under a spell)The album They Were Wrong, So We Drowned by the rock group Liars, is a concept album based on the legends of Walpurgis Night"Born in A Burial Gown" by Cradle of Filth. The video also suggests a Walpurgis celebration."Night on Brocken", by Fates Warning from the album of the same name, sings about a black mass held on Walpurgis Night. On the next day, the singer recognises the priest at his church as the one holding the black mass the previous night."Walpurgis" is a rare 1969 prog psych record by the Swiss group Shiver. The cover features early art by H. R. Giger.A German group named "Walpurgis" released a Krautrock album called "Queen of Sheba" in 1972.Hardcore band Integrity plans to release their return EP in 2008 titled "Walpurgisnacht".Romantic composer Felix Mendelssohn composed a dramatic choral oratorio, Die Erste Walpurgisnacht, in 1831, based on the Goethe poem.Film, television and radioThe closing sequence (Night on Bald Mountain / Ave Maria) of Fantasia (1940) is intended to portray Walpurgisnacht and not Halloween, as is popularly supposed.In the 1931 film Dracula, a Romanian peasant describes the night on which the film begins as Walpurgis Night.In the 1986 fantasy/horror movie Troll, a witch named Eunice St Claire (June Lockhart) describes to Harry Potter Jr. (Noah Hathaway), that Walpurgis Night is a witches' sabbath, where the "denizens of the unknown cavort (party hearty)".The Campus Loop, a nationally syndicated TV show from the University of Texas at Austin's student television channel, KVR-TV, had a set of episodes entitled "The Maltese Pumpkin" that were set on Walpurgis Night.The television show Lexx had an episode called "Walpurgis Night" that originally aired on 24 August 2001.La Noche de Walpurgis (translated as Walpurgis Night) is a 1971 Spanish horror movie, the fourth in a series about the werewolf Count Waldemar Daninsky.The 2004 film "Bram Stoker's Walpurgis Nacht" portrays deleted sections from the Dracula novel that occur on Walpurgis Nacht.Dracula's Guest, a radio drama adaptation of Bram Stoker's short story about a graveyard encounter on Walpurgis Night, was produced in 1999 by the Radio Tales series for National Public Radio, and is rebroadcast by XM Satellite Radio.See alsoHolidays in SwedenFlag days in SwedenHolidays in FinlandFlag days in FinlandFaustFaust (opera)MefistofeleBeltaneHalloween (which falls six months to the day either before or after Walpurgis Night)Notes For the Ballet see: http://ballettalk.invisionzone.com/index.php?showtopic=24679 and http://www.nysun.com/article/59397, amongst other souirces.External linksWalpurgisnacht Events GuideDay of the Witches - Czech RepublicVideo - Bram Stoker's Walpurgis NachtCategory:Secular holidays Category:April observances Category:May observances Category:Paganism Category:Summer holidaysbg:Валпургиева нощ da:Valborgsaften de:Walpurgisnacht et:Volbripäev es:Noche de Walpurgis eo:Valpurga Nokto fr:Nuit de Walpurgis hr:Valpurgina noć ka:ვალპურგის ღამე la:Nox Valpurgis nl:Walpurgisnacht ja:ヴァルプルギスの夜 nn:Valborgsnatta pl:Noc Walpurgii ru:Вальпургиева ночь fi:Vappu sv:Valborgsmässoafton uk:Вальпургієва ніч