 The Institute of Christ the King Sovereign Priest (Latin: Institutum Christi Regis Summi Sacerdotis) is a society of priests in the Catholic Church that celebrates the Liturgy in Latin in accordance with its constitutions and founding documents based on permissions granted by the Holy See; it also preserves and patronizes traditional Latin Rite liturgical art and music, and has undertaken the restoration and beautification of several church buildings. The Institute is a Society of Apostolic Life of Pontifical Right, whose rule of life is based generally on that of the secular canons. The Institute has its own choir dress adopted in 2006 and solemnly given to members by the Cardinal Archbishop of Florence, and has as its stated aim the defense and propagation of the reign of Christ in all areas of human life, both private and social. The Superior General is known as 'Monsignor the Prior General'.The Institute, founded in 1990, is based in Gricigliano, Italy, where the international seminary is located. The Institute's foundation was originally canonically erected in Gabon, Africa, where the Institute still maintains several missions, notably in the capital Libreville. Its canonical status was of 'diocesan rite' until the 7th of October, 2008. Since then it is by decree of the Commission Ecclesia Dei of Pontifical Right. Deacons and priests are incardinated into the Institute, whose Superior General has the right to call to orders. The Institute was co-founded by Monsignor Gilles Wach, STD, Superior General and Father Philippe Mora, STD, who serves as rector of the seminary. Msgr. Wach and Abbe Mora received their priestly formation under the late Cardinal Siri (d. 1989) of Genoa. The Institute currently has more than seventy seminarians in formation, and numbers over fifty priests.The charism of the Institute is based on the example of its three patron saints: Saint Benedict, with his love for the solemn celebration of the liturgy, his emphasis on work and prayer, and his role in laying the groundwork for an integral Christian civilization in medieval Europe; Saint Thomas Aquinas, with his emphasis on the harmony between faith and reason; and Saint Francis de Sales, with the importance he attached to teaching the Catholic faith with patience and charity, and to encouraging all Catholics to seek a life of holiness through the ordinary means of the Church, such as devout attendance at Mass (Eucharist) and frequent confession.The Adorers of the Royal Heart of Jesus Christ Sovereign Priest are a women's community (founded in 2004) associated with the Institute, and are also based in Gricigliano. The sisters are non-cloistered contemplatives, and their way of life is based on the Benedictine tradition. The community celebrates Mass and the Divine Office using the Traditional Latin Rite prior to the changes introduced by Vatican II. When the number of sisters has increased sufficiently it is expected that convents will be located near the Institute's churches, where the sisters will perform apostolic work such as teaching. The sisters now number nearly twenty.In the United States, the Institute is located in Illinois, Wisconsin, Missouri, New Jersey, and California, with national headquarters in Chicago. Its oldest United States apostolate is St. Mary Oratory in Rockford, Illinois where Fr. Brian A. T. Bovee is rector. The Institute's 2nd most recent foundation in the United States is in Kansas City, Missouri, where in 2005 Bishop Robert Finn established an oratory, (a public church where the Mass and other rites may be administered), for the Institute at an historic church otherwise in danger of being closed. One of its most recent foundation was in Santa Clara, California, at Our Mother of Perpetual Help. Superior for the United States is Monsignor R. Michael Schmitz, who is also Vicar General of the Institute. The Institute is active in the dioceses of Liverpool, Shrewsbury and Middlesbrough in Great Britain. Since St. Patrick's Day, March 17, 2006, the Institute has had a presence in the diocese of Limerick in the Republic of Ireland. In addition to its oratories in the United States and missions in Africa, the Institute also has apostolates in France, Spain, Belgium, Italy, Germany, Austria, and Switzerland. The Institute is especially active in the domain of education, running schools in France (Montpellier, Lille and Versailles), Belgium (Brussels International Catholic School), and Africa.In 2007 the Institute ordained four new priests. Archbishop Raymond Leo Burke of the Archdiocese of St. Louis ordained two United States priests in the Cathedral Basilica of Saint Louis, Missouri on the feast day of the Most Sacred Heart of Jesus on June 15, 2007. Antonio Cardinal Cañizares Llovera, the Primate of Spain, ordained two French priests at Gricigliano, the Institute's seminary in Italy on July 5, 2007.External linksInstitute of Christ the King Sovereign PriestSave the Historical Landmark Shrine of Christ the KingInstitutum Christi Regis Summi Sacerdotis (French)Category:Institute of Christ the King Sovereign Priest Category:Societies of Apostolic Life Category:Roman Catholic orders and societiesde:Institut Christus König und Hoherpriester es:Instituto de Cristo Rey Sumo Sacerdote fr:Institut du Christ-Roi Souverain Prêtre ga:Institiúid Críost Rí Ard-Shagart nl:Instituut Christus Koning en Soeverein Hogepriester pl:Instytut Chrystusa Króla pt:Instituto de Cristo Rei e Sumo Sacerdote sv:Kristkonungens institut