The Belgian Shepherd Dog (Malinois) () is a breed of dog, sometimes classified as a variety of the Belgian Shepherd Dog rather than as a separate breed. The Malinois is recognized in the United States under the name Belgian Malinois. Its name is the French word for Mechlinian, which is in Dutch either 'Mechelse' (from Mechelen) or 'Mechelaar' (one from Mechelen).AppearanceLike all Belgian Shepherds, the Malinois is a medium-sized, hard-working, square-proportioned dog in the sheepdog family. The Malinois is recognized by its short brownish yellow coat and its black ears that stick straight up, cheeks, and muzzle. It very much resembles a smaller German Shepherd.Coat and colorDue to their history as a working dog (i.e. being bred for function over form) Malinois can vary greatly in appearance. The acceptable colors of pure-bred Malinois are a base color of grey to fawn to mahogany with a black mask and ears, and with some degree of black tipping on the hairs, giving an overlay appearance. The color tends to be lighter with less black agouti or overlay on the dog's underside, breeching, and inside the legs.The other varieties of Belgian Shepherd are distinguished by their coat & color: the Tervuren is the same color as the Malinois with long hair, the Laekenois is the same color, only it may lack the black mask & ears, and has wirehair, the Groenendael (registered as Belgian Sheepdog by the American Kennel Club) has long hair and is solid black. There are (occasionally and historically) solid black, black-and-tan (as in a Doberman or as in a German Shepherd Dog), or other colored short-haired Belgian Shepherds, but these are not technically Malinois.  If a dog represented as a Malinios is brindle (clear stripes of different colored hair) it is probably a Dutch Shepherd Dog or a mixed breed, although the possibility exists that it is a "throwback" to a common continental shepherd ancestor.SizeMale Malinois are about 24-26 in. (61-66 cm), while females are about 22-24 in. (56-61 cm) at the withers. Female Malinois are said to average 25-30 kg (55-65 lb), while males are heavier at 29-34 kg (65-75 lb). Malinois can range from stocky to slender, but are always squarely built.Working Dog]] In Belgium, Germany, the Netherlands and other European countries, as well as in the United States, the Malinois is bred primarily as a working dog for personal protection, detection, police work, search and rescue, and sport work (Belgian Ring, Schutzhund, French Ring, Mondio Ring). The United States Secret Service exclusively uses the breed. http://clinton4.nara.gov/WH/kids/inside/html/spring98-3.htmlhttp://www.gopetsamerica.com/belgian-malinois/belgian-malinois.aspxhttp://books.google.com/books?id=KMysiHydkQ0C&amp;pg=PA189&amp;lpg=PA189&amp;dq=secret+service+malinois&amp;source=web&amp;ots=6uBwYPgDEK&amp;sig=o-_F7YRefOk91aQ2U05RzjT8dsc#PPA191,M1The dog is also used extensively by Unit Oketz of the Israel Defense Forces. Oketz favors the more slight build of the Malinois to the German Shepherd and Rottweiler, which were employed formerly.HealthThe lifespan of the Belgian Malinois is 10-14 years, and there are a number of health problems and disorders that are associated with the breed. This includes cataracts, epilepsy, thyroid problems, PRA, HD, and pannus.==Books about the Breed==Belgian Malinois (Comprehensive Owner's Guide) (Comprehensive Owner's Guide Kennel Club), written by Robert Pollet, published by Kennel Club Books; Limited edition (November 30, 2005), 160 pages, ISBN-10: 1593786506The Malinois (Paperback), written by Jan Kaldenbach, published by Detselig Enterprises; 1st edition (June 15, 1997), 94 pages, ISBN-10: 1550591517Belgian Malinois Champions, 1996-2002, written by Jan Linzy, published by Camino E E & Book Co. (October 2003), 121 pages, ISBN-10: 1558931260==See also== Belgian Shepherd Dog (Groenendael)Belgian Shepherd Dog (Laekenois)Belgian Shepherd Dog (Tervuren)External linksAmerican Working MalinoisBelgian Shepherd Dog Club of CanadaAmerican Belgian Malinois ClubWorld Federation of Belgian Shepherd DogsDutch Association for Belgian Shepherds DogsABMC Belgian Malinois RescueRussian Professional Kennel Club &quot;Ot Solnika&quot; Belgian Sheep DogCategory:Dog breeds Category:Herding dogs Category:Dog breeds originating in Europe Category:Dog breeds originating in Belgiumde:Malinois es:Pastor belga (Malinois) fr:Malinois (chien) he:מלינואה it:Pastore belga Malinois lt:Malinua nl:Mechelse herder no:Malinois pl:Owczarek belgijski Malinois fi:Belgianpaimenkoira malinois