 |Died = |Instrument = Vocals |Voice_type = Contralto Lacuna Coil.. |Genre = Gothic metal, Alternative metal |Occupation = Singer, songwriter, columnist |Years_active = 1994-present |Label = Century Media |Associated_acts = Lacuna Coil, Franco Battiato, Rezophonic, Megadeth, Apocalyptica, Alter Bridge |URL = www.lacunacoil.it  Cristina Adriana Chiara Scabbia (born June 6, 1972 in Milan, Italy) is one of the two vocalists in the Italian gothic metal band Lacuna Coil. She also writes an advice column in the popular rock magazine Revolver, alongside musician Vinnie Paul. Scabbia has said that the biggest compliment that a fan could pay her would be to remark on her vocal abilities. Scabbia has a contralto vocal range. Lacuna Coil..Personal lifeCristina Adriana Chiara Scabbia de Camacho family includes two brothers and a sister, who were all raised listening to music. Though her siblings' musical preference differed from her own, her first influences were from bands such as Genesis, Led Zeppelin, AC/DC, and traditional Italian music. As a child, Scabbia had no interest in becoming a singer, and claims that as she became an adult it "just kind of happened". She also notes that she's never taken vocal lessons to better her singing. In her twenties, she began to take interest in metal, '80s, and dance music. Scabbia feels that many types of music have had an influence on her, although she feels they are difficult to categorize. Scabbia was dating fellow Lacuna Coil bandmate, bassist Marco Coti Zelati. Coti Zalati and Scabbia's relationship had lasted for ten years, ending in early 2004. She is currently dating Jim Root from American based groups Slipknot and Stone Sour, who she began dating during their Ozzfest stint in 2004. The two claim that working in the music industry together helps to maintain their long distance relationship.Cristina's hobbies and interests include watching movies, cooking, shopping, clothing, and spending time with her friends and family. Her favorite sport is football and she supports A.C. Milan. She enjoys watching cooking programs on television and she says, "Emeril is the man." Some of her favorite bands include Depeche Mode, Linkin Park, Korn, Meshuggah, and In Flames. She says you can find something interesting in every genre of music, so she listens to everything without any problems.Scabbia can speak English without as heavy an accent (although if listened to carefully, one can still be heard) that is present in her fellow bandmates, which is made apparent in English interviews with the band.Lacuna CoilIn 1991, Scabbia began professionally singing as a touring musician for other bands and providing backing vocals. Later that year she met the male vocalist Andrea Ferro and bass player Marco Coti Zelati of Lacuna Coil in Milan's Midnight club. At the time, the band was named Ethereal, and Scabbia was first employed only as a session singer. She was employed to record backup vocals for the choruses of songs on their demo tape, but the band members liked the way the male and female vocals sounded together, and asked her to be a permanent member. After several changes in the band's line-up, the members were reduced to Ferro, Coti Zelati and Scabbia. The members recorded a two track demo in May 1996, and were soon signed by the German branch of Century Media, eventually joining with the American branch of the label. Once signed, the band changed their name to Lacuna Coil after learning that a Greek band signed to Century Media had already claimed the name Ethereal. Adding new band members, Lacuna Coil began to tour, releasing their album in 1997.Collaborationsmagazine.]] Aside from providing vocals for Lacuna Coil, Scabbia has provided vocals with other musicians as duets, however, she has no plans to leave Lacuna Coil or perform strictly as a solo artist. Her most recent duet was recorded with Alter Bridge, called, Watch Over You, one of the band's singles (the duet was never released as a single).  In 2004, she recorded "I'm That", a duet with Italian songwriter Franco Battiato, and in 2005, she performed onstage with him in a concert in Milan which was shown on the DVD Un soffio al cuore di natura elettrica. In 2006, Scabbia's vocals appeared on the single "Can You Hear Me", as a part of Rezophonic's collaboration album project to benefit the African Medical and Research Foundation. She again collaborated with Rezophonic in 2006 when she appeared in the music videos for "L'uomo Di Plastica" and "Spasimo" with her Lacuna Coil bandmates. In 2007, Scabbia recorded a new version of Megadeth's "À Tout le Monde (Set Me Free)" for their album United Abominations. The song was a duet with Dave Mustaine and released as the album's first single with a video that also featured Scabbia. She also provided vocals for Apocalyptica's "S.O.S. (Anything But Love)" which was featured on their album Worlds Collide. She's one of the most popular female singers in rock and metal nowaday, creating her own personal style of vocals and image, being a role model for new generations.In the MediaScabbia is the only female to receive a "Metal Icon" award at the annual Metal Hammer Golden Gods Awards.She is featured on the covers of Revolver magazine's first and second annual The Hottest Chicks In Metal issues. BLABBERMOUTH.NET - LACUNA COIL's SCABBIA Is One Of 'The Hottest Chicks In Metal'&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Scabbia was also on the cover of Rolling Stone Italy's August 2006 issue.http://www.emptyspiral.net/modules.php?name=News&amp;file=article&amp;sid=723&lt;/ref&gt;ReferencesExternal linksLacuna Coil official websiteInterview w/ Beat magazine Category:1972 births Category:Italian female singers Category:Italian Roman Catholics Category:Italian singers Category:Contraltos Category:Lacuna Coil members Category:Living people Category:Female metal singers Category:People from Milande:Cristina Scabbia es:Cristina Scabbia fr:Cristina Scabbia hr:Cristina Scabbia it:Cristina Scabbia nl:Cristina Scabbia pl:Cristina Scabbia pt:Cristina Scabbia ru:Скаббиа, Кристина fi:Cristina Scabbia sv:Cristina Scabbia tr:Cristina Scabbia