 | birth_place=Guayaquil, Ecuador | dead= | death_date= | death_place= | spouse=María Beatriz Paret | party=No party affiliation | vicepresident=Alejandro Serrano  Not to be confused with the Argentine politician Alfredo Palacios. Luis Alfredo Palacio González (born January 22, 1939) served as President of Ecuador from April 2005 to January 2007. From January 15 2003 to April 20 2005, he served as vice president, after which he was appointed to the presidency when the Ecuadorian Congress removed President Lucio Gutiérrez from power following a week of growing unrest with his government.Born in Guayaquil, Palacio is a physician by profession, specializing in cardiology. He studied in his home town and, later, at Cleveland, Ohio, doing residency at Case Western Reserve University, followed by a two-year cardiology fellowship at Barnes-Jewish Hospital and Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis, Missouri, in the United States. He later lectured in cardiology and public health at Guayaquil University's faculty of medicine.Palacio was chosen as Lucio Gutiérrez's running mate in the 2002 election. It was a common sight during the campaign to see Gutiérrez, dressed in his army fatigues, accompanied by Palacios, wearing surgical scrubs. Palacio had previously served as the minister for health during the administration of Sixto Durán Ballén. Many of the ministers he chose were from the Party of the Democratic Left.One of Palacio's first proposals made as president was to hold a Constitutional Assembly to amend Ecuador's 1998 Constitution. For a period of several months prior to assuming office, he had been a critic of the Gutiérrez regime, saying that the country was "falling apart" and in need of "intensive care".Rafael Correa was elected president in November 2006 and replaced Palacio as president on January 15, 2007.World Health OrganizationPalacio was one of the candidates for the position of director-general of the World Health Organization, to be decided in a vote on November 9, 2006. However, on October 18, 2006, he announced he would not be pursuing the position, preferring to concentrate on his presidency until the very last day of his mandate. http://www.eluniversal.com.mx/notas/382085.htmlExternal linksPresidencia de la República &amp;ndash; Presidente Biography as presidentBBC Mundo | América Latina | ¿Quién es Alfredo Palacio? (BBC News)Ecuador's Balancing Act: Palacio, the People and the IMF The Council on Hemispheric Affairs    Category:1939 births Category:Ecuadorian physicians Category:Guayaquil (canton seat) Category:Living people Category:Presidents of Ecuadorar:ألفريدو بالاسيو ca:Alfredo Palacio de:Alfredo Palacio et:Alfredo Palacio es:Alfredo Palacio González eo:Alfredo Palacio fr:Alfredo Palacio gl:Alfredo Palacio io:Alfredo Palacio id:Alfredo Palacio it:Alfredo Palacio he:אלפרדו פאלאסיו ms:Alfredo Palacio nl:Alfredo Palacio ja:アルフレド・パラシオ nn:Alfredo Palacio pl:Alfredo Palacio pt:Alfredo Palacio qu:Alfredo Palacio fi:Alfredo Palacio sv:Alfredo Palacio zh:阿爾弗雷多·帕拉西奧