  | birth_place = Washington, D.C., U.S. | residence = United States | nationality = United States | field = Physics | work_institution = University of California, Santa BarbaraHarvard UniversityPrinceton University | alma_mater = Hebrew UniversityUniversity of California, Berkeley | doctoral_advisor = Geoffrey Chew | doctoral_students = Frank Wilczek Edward Witten | known_for = Asymptotic freedomHeterotic string | Religion = Jewish | prizes = Nobel Prize in Physics (2004) | footnotes = David Jonathan Gross (born February 19, 1941 in Washington, D.C.) is an American particle physicist and string theorist. Along with Frank Wilczek and David Politzer, he was awarded the 2004 Nobel Prize in Physics for his discovery of asymptotic freedom.In 1973, Gross, working with his first graduate student, Frank Wilczek, at Princeton University, discovered asymptotic freedom, which holds that the closer quarks are to each other, the less the strong interaction (or color charge) between them; when quarks are in extreme proximity, the nuclear force between them is so weak that they behave almost as free particles. Asymptotic freedom, independently discovered by David Politzer, was important for the development of quantum chromodynamics.Gross, with Jeffrey A. Harvey, Emil Martinec, and Ryan Rohm also formulated the theory of the heterotic string.Academic lifeHe was born and raised in America. His father was Bertram Myron Gross (1912-1998). In his early adolescence his family moved to Israel. He was immersed in Hebrew, a language he had not known, and he became fascinated by physics. He says he was 13 when he decided to become a theoretical physicist.David J. Gross&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Gross received his bachelor's degree and master's degree from the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Israel, in 1962. He received his Ph.D. in physics from the University of California, Berkeley in 1966 under the supervision of Geoffrey Chew and was a Junior Fellow at Harvard University and a Professor at Princeton University until 1997. He is the recipient of a MacArthur Foundation Fellowship in 1987, the Dirac Medal in 1988, and currently is the director and holder of the Frederick W. Gluck Chair in Theoretical Physics at the Kavli Institute for Theoretical Physics of the University of California, Santa Barbara.Honours and awardsDirac Medal (1988)Nobel Prize in Physics (2004)ReferencesD. J. Gross and F. Wilczek, “Asymptotically Free Gauge Theories. I”, Phys. Rev. D8 3633 (1973)External linksNobel citationArXiv papersWebpage at the Kavli InstituteScientific articles of David Gross (SLAC database)BBC synopsis on the awardInterviews  Category:American physicists Category:1941 births Category:Living people Category:People from Washington, D.C. Category:MacArthur Fellows Category:String theorists Category:Nobel laureates in Physics Category:Jewish scientists Category:Hebrew University of Jerusalem alumni Category:University of California, Berkeley alumni Category:University of California, Santa Barbara faculty Category:Particle physicists Category:Theoretical physicists Category:Princeton University facultybg:Дейвид Грос ca:David Gross cs:David Jonathan Gross de:David Gross el:Ντέιβιντ Γκρος es:David J. Gross eo:David Gross fa:دیوید گراس fr:David J. Gross id:David Gross it:David Gross he:דייוויד גרוס ht:David Gross ku:David J. Gross hu:David Jonathan Gross nl:David Gross ja:デイビッド・グロス no:David Gross pl:David Gross pt:David Gross ro:David Jonathan Gross ru:Гросс, Дэвид sk:David Jonathan Gross sl:David Jonathan Gross fi:David Gross sv:David J. Gross zh:戴维·格娄斯