 |death_place = Bergamo, Italy |field = Organic chemistry |work_institution = Pavia UniversityUniversity of RomePolitecnico di Torino |alma_mater = Politecnico di Milano |known_for = Ziegler-Natta catalyst |prizes = Nobel Prize for Chemistry (1963) Giulio Natta (February 26 1903, Imperia - Bergamo, 2 May 1979) was an Italian chemist, who won a Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1963 with Karl Ziegler for work on high polymers. He was born in Imperia, Italy, on February 26, 1903. He graduated in Chemical Engineering at the Politecnico di Milano in 1924. In 1927 he passed the exams for becoming a professor there. In 1933 he became a full professor and the director of the Institute of General Chemistry of Pavia University, where he stayed until 1935. In that year he was appointed full professor in physical chemistry at the University of Rome. From 1936 to 1938 he moved as a full professor and director of the Institute of Industrial Chemistry at the Politecnico di Torino. In 1938 he took the head of the Department of chemical engineering at Politecnico di Milano university, in a somehow criticized manner, when his predecessor Mario Giacomo Levi was forced to step down as a consequence of racial laws against Jews being introduced in fascist Italy.His work at the Politecnico led to the improvement of earlier work by Ziegler and to the development of the Ziegler-Natta catalyst. He won a Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1963 with Karl Ziegler for work on high polymers.He was diagnosed with Parkinson's disease in 1956. His condition became severe enough in 1963, that his son had to help him in Stockholm during the Noble Prize Award Ceremony and a colleague had to give the lecture. Prof. Natta died on May 2, 1979.Natta is buried in the cemetery of Bergamo.References External linksNatta's Nobel Foundation biographyNatta's Nobel Lecture From the Stereospecific Polymerization to the Asymmetric Autocatalytic Synthesis of Macromolecules Category:1903 births Category:1979 deaths Category:People from the Province of Imperia Category:Nobel laureates in Chemistry Category:Italian Nobel laureates Category:Italian chemists Category:Polymer scientists and engineers Category:People from Turin (city) Category:Alumni of the Politecnico di Milano Category:People with Parkinson's disease Category:Deaths from Parkinson's disease Category:Faculty of the Politecnico di Milanoar:جوليو ناتا ca:Giulio Natta de:Giulio Natta es:Giulio Natta eo:Giulio Natta fr:Giulio Natta ga:Giulio Natta io:Giulio Natta id:Giulio Natta it:Giulio Natta he:ג'וליו נטה sw:Giulio Natta nl:Giulio Natta ja:ジュリオ・ナッタ oc:Giulio Natta pl:Giulio Natta pt:Giulio Natta ro:Giulio Natta ru:Натта, Джулио sq:Giulio Natta scn:Giulio Natta fi:Giulio Natta sv:Giulio Natta zh:居里奥·纳塔