  Biel/Bienne is a city in the district of Biel, canton of Berne in Switzerland.It is located on the language boundary and is throughout bilingual. Biel is the German name for the town, Bienne its French counterpart. The town is often referred to in both languages simultaneously. Since January 1, 2005, the official name has been "Biel/Bienne", unofficially also "Biel-Bienne".The city lies at the foot of the first mountain range of the Jura Mountains area, guarding the only practical connection to Jura in the area, on the northeastern shores of Lake Biel (Bielersee, Lac de Bienne), sharing the eastern tip of the lake with its sister city, Nidau, the administrative centre of the District of Nidau. Neuchâtel, Solothurn & Berne (the capital of Switzerland) lie west, east and southeast of Biel/Bienne, all less than 30 minutes away, either by train or car.HistoryThe origin of the city has been traced to the times when Celts settled in the region. At the time it was called Belenus, after a Celtic deity. The Romans later inhabited the area. The township itself was built in the 11th century, and in 1275 it was chartered.Biel/Bienne has remained under the jurisdiction of the Bishop of Basel for hundreds of years. In 1279 the town entered an alliance with Berne which was made permanent in 1352. There have been several conflicts between the inhabitants of Biel/Bienne and the Bishop of Basel Reform. In 1798 Biel/Bienne was invaded by French troops. After Napoleon's collapse, the town became a part of the Canton of Berne, in 1815.Biel had been asked, at the time of the creation of the Canton de Jura, to become its capital, but it remained with the Kanton Bern.LanguageAbout 60% speak German, about 40% French. The city is officially bilingual (the biggest bilingual city in Switzerland). In addition some 150 nationalities are represented in Biel/Bienne. In recent years the city has wisely used its linguistic assets as an economic advantage, becoming the Swiss City of Communication, including several call centres that have been created in or around Biel/Bienne, in addition to the traditional businesses established in the city and surrounding area, which have always exported most of their production worldwide.Main sightsThe town centre of Biel/Bienne features a Gothic church which dates from 1451. The town hall dates from 1534. The population is an estimated 51,900.BusinessThe city and its neighbourhood thrive on precision and micro mechanics, the conception and manufacture of highly specialised production oriented machinery and tools, products exported worldwide, next to Swiss Made Watches of the well known & reputed Watch Brands located in the city and its vicinity.Rolex have since the beginning established and run their movement & technical parts production centres in the city, alsoSwatch Group have their Group & several Brands headquarters, especially Omega SA & Swatch here, as well asThe Federation of the Swiss Watch Industry FHCultureThe newspapers Bieler Tagblatt and Journal du Jura as well as the only totally bilingual German/French newspaper Biel-Bienne with its large free distribution within the greater area, are published in Biel/Bienne.The city is also known for its annual International Chess Festival.The city of Biel/Bienne received the Wakker Prize in 2004.Each June since 1959, Biel/Bienne has hosted a 100 km Ultramarathon race, which is among the biggest races of its kind worldwide and forms a part of the European Ultramarathon Cup.People in Switzerland often to go Bienne to buy cannabis in its several discreet coffee shops.SportEHC Biel, the professional ice hockey teamFC Biel-Bienne, the soccer club funded in 1896Twinning Iserlohn, Germany since 1959Gallery Image:Swiss-bienne-city-1.JPG|Lake Biel Image:Parc municipal2005.JPG|town's park Image:CH Biel Schüss.JPG|the river Suze Image:CH Biel Altstadt-8.JPG Image:Biel.jpg|Place du Ring Image:CH Biel Altstadt-2.JPG Image:CH Biel Altstadt-6.jpg Image:Tuerme auf der Arteplage Biel der Expo.02.jpg|Expo 02 External linksOfficial website of Biel/BienneTourism Biel/Bienne SeelandBiel/Bienne International Chess FestivalFederation of the Swiss Watch Industry FHCategory:Cities in Switzerland Category:Municipalities of Berne Category:Former associates of Switzerlandals:Biel/Bienne br:Biel/Bienne cy:Biel da:Biel/Bienne de:Biel/Bienne es:Biel-Bienne eo:Bielo fr:Bienne it:Bienne hu:Biel nl:Biel (stad) ja:ビール (ベルン州) no:Biel/Bienne pl:Biel (miasto) pt:Bienna ro:Biel/Bienne rm:Biel / Bienne ru:Биль (город) sq:Biel/Bienne simple:Biel sv:Biel (kommun, CH-BE) vec:Bienna vo:Biel-Bienne zh:比爾 (瑞士)