Joseph Pulitzer (English pronunciation:  PULL-itser;. The pronunciation  PYOO-litser is also common. April 10, 1847Date of birth according to the Encyclopædia Britannica.–October 29, 1911) was a Hungarian-American publisher best known for posthumously establishing the Pulitzer Prizes and (along with William Randolph Hearst) for originating yellow journalism.BiographyPulitzer was born in Makó, Hungary, the son of Jewish parents Philip Pulitzer, a grain merchant, and Elize Berger.&lt;/ref&gt;&lt;ref&gt;[http://www.budapestsun.com/cikk.php?id=21673 Vasv&aacute;ry Collection - Newsletter 2004/2. (32.) Joseph Pulitzer: Hungarian revolutionary in America - EPA] at www.epa.oszk.huJewish Contributions in Literature&lt;!-- bot-generated title --&gt; at www.jinfo.org He sought a military career, but was turned down by the Austrian army due to poor health and eyesight. He instead emigrated to the United States in 1864 to serve in the American Civil War.Newspaper careerAfter the war he settled in St. Louis, Missouri, where in 1868 he was given a job by Carl Schurz on the German language daily newspaper, the Westliche Post. He joined the Republican Party and was elected to the Missouri State Assembly in 1869. However, after a failed attempt at electing Horace Greeley as president, the party collapsed and Pulitzer switched to the Democrats. In 1872, Pulitzer purchased the Post for $3,000, and then sold his stake in the paper for a profit in 1873. Then, in 1879, he bought the St. Louis Dispatch, and the St. Louis Post and merged the two papers, which became the St. Louis Post-Dispatch, which remains St. Louis' daily newspaper. It was at the Post-Dispatch that Pulitzer developed his role as a champion of the common man with exposés and a hard-hitting populist approach. He soon was competitive with William Hearst.In 1882 Pulitzer, by then a wealthy man, purchased the New York World,&lt;/ref&gt; a newspaper that had been losing $40,000 a year, for $346,000 from Jay Gould. Pulitzer shifted its focus to human-interest stories, scandal, and sensationalism. In 1885, he was elected to the U.S. House of Representatives, but resigned after a few months' service. In 1887, he recruited the famous investigative journalist Nellie Bly. In 1895 the World introduced the immensely popular The Yellow Kid comic by Richard F. Outcault, the first newspaper comic printed with color. Under Pulitzer's leadership circulation grew from 15,000 to 600,000, making it the largest newspaper in the country.The editor of the rival New York Sun attacked Pulitzer in print, calling him in 1890 "The Tucker who abandoned his religion". This was intended to alienate Pulitzer's Jewish readership. Pulitzer's already failing health deteriorated rapidly and he withdrew from the daily management of the newspaper, although he continued to actively manage the paper from his vacation retreat in Bar Harbor, Maine, and his New York mansion.In 1895, William Randolph Hearst purchased the rival New York Journal from Pulitzer's own brother, Albert, which led to a circulation war. This competition with Hearst, particularly the coverage before and during the Spanish-American War, linked Pulitzer's name with yellow journalism.After the World exposed an illegal payment of $40&nbsp;million by the United States to the French Panama Canal Company in 1909, Pulitzer was indicted for libeling Theodore Roosevelt and J. P. Morgan. The courts dismissed the indictments in a victory for freedom of the press.Columbia UniversityIn 1892, Pulitzer offered Columbia University's president, Seth Low, money to set up the world's first school of journalism. The university initially turned down the money, evidently turned off by Pulitzer's unscrupulous character. In 1902, Columbia's new president Nicholas Murray Butler was more receptive to the plan for a school and prizes, but it would not be until after Pulitzer's death that this dream would be fulfilled. Pulitzer left the university $2&nbsp;million in his will, which led to the creation in 1912 of the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism, but by then at Pulitzer's urging the Missouri School of Journalism had been created at the University of Missouri. Both schools remain some of the most prestigious in the world.En route to his winter home on Jekyll Island, Georgia, Joseph Pulitzer died aboard his yacht in the harbor of Charleston, South Carolina in 1911. He is interred in the Woodlawn Cemetery in The Bronx, New York.LegacyIn 1917, the first Pulitzer Prizes were awarded, in accordance with Pulitzer's wishes. In 1989 Pulitzer was inducted into the St. Louis Walk of Fame. A fictionalized version of Joseph Pulitzer is portrayed by Robert Duvall in the 1992 Disney film musical, Newsies. He is the main antagonist of that film. There is also a school in Jackson Heights, Queens, New York named after Pulitzer.ReferencesSources[http://www.questia.com/PM.qst?a=o&amp;d=106751613 Brian, Denis. Pulitzer: A Life (2001)]External links [http://www.nytimes.com/learning/general/onthisday/harp/1228.html NY Times - Harper's Weekly political cartoon American Editors. II.--Joseph Pulitzer; includes in-depth biographical information]Paper on Pulitzer's life and journalismA well-written detailed biographySt. Louis Walk of Fame Category:1847 births Category:1911 deaths Category:American journalists Category:American progressives Category:American Jews Category:Hungarian Jews Category:Jewish journalists Category:Hungarian-American Jews Category:Hungarian journalists Category:German-American writers Category:Burials at Woodlawn Cemetery (The Bronx) Category:Members of the United States House of Representatives from New York Category:American newspaper publishers (people) of the 19th century Category:American newspaper publishers (people) of the 20th century Category:People from St. Louis, Missouri Category:Union Army soldiers Category:People of the Spanish-American War Category:St. Louis Post-Dispatch people Category:Requests for audio pronunciation (English)ar:جوزيف بوليتزر bs:Joseph Pulitzer ca:Joseph Pulitzer de:Joseph Pulitzer et:Joseph Pulitzer el:Τζόζεφ Πούλιτζερ es:Joseph Pulitzer fr:Joseph Pulitzer hr:Joseph Pulitzer it:Joseph Pulitzer he:ג'וזף פוליצר sw:Joseph Pulitzer lt:Jozefas Pulitzeris hu:Pulitzer József mk:Џозеф Пулицер nl:Joseph Pulitzer ja:ジョーゼフ・ピューリツァー no:Joseph Pulitzer pl:Joseph Pulitzer pt:Joseph Pulitzer ru:Пулитцер, Джозеф simple:Joseph Pulitzer sk:Joseph Pulitzer sl:Joseph Pulitzer sr:Џозеф Пулицер fi:Joseph Pulitzer sv:Joseph Pulitzer ta:ஜோசேப் புலிட்சர் tr:Joseph Pulitzer zh:約瑟夫·普立茲