  | | birthplace = Blackpool, Lancashire, England, UK | sagawards = Outstanding Performance by an Ensemble in a Comedy Series  1999 Frasier | tonyawards = Tony Award for Best Performance by a Featured Actor in a Play  1986 The House of Blue LeavesJohn Mahoney (born June 20, 1940) is an award-winning English American actor, best known for playing Martin &quot;Marty&quot; Crane, the retired police officer father of Kelsey Grammer's Dr. Frasier Crane, in the popular American TV series Frasier (NBC, 1993-2004).BiographyEarly lifeMahoney, the seventh of eight children, was born in Blackpool, England - the town to where his mother was evacuated as the Mahoneys' home city of Manchester was bombed during the Second World War and the town where he started school at St Joseph's College, Blackpool. After the war, the Mahoneys moved back to Manchester. Mahoney grew up in the Withington area of the city and discovered acting at the Stretford Youth Theatre. His father, Reg, was a baker.John Mahoney (Martin Crane)&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; Mahoney moved to the United States as a young man when his older sister, Vera, a war-bride living in rural Illinois, agreed to sponsor him. He studied at Quincy University, Illinois, before joining the United States Army to speed up the citizenship process and to become a U.S. citizen; he received citizenship in 1959.John Mahoney Biography (1940-)&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; He lived in Macomb, Illinois and taught English at Western Illinois University in the early 1970s, before finally settling in Oak Park, Illinois. He served as editor of a medical journal through much of the decade.CareerEarly careerReady for a change, Mahoney took acting classes at St. Nicholas Theater that inspired him to quit his day job and pursue acting full time, and after a stage production in 1977, fellow actor John Malkovich encouraged him to join Steppenwolf Theatre. He did so, and went on to win the Clarence Derwent Award as Most Promising Male Newcomer, and, in 1986, Broadway's Tony Award for Best Featured Actor in a Play for his performance in John Guare's The House of Blue Leaves.He made his film debut in 1980, and has played supporting roles in such films as Suspect and Moonstruck (both 1987 and both starring Cher), Eight Men Out, Frantic and Betrayed (all three 1988), Say Anything... (1989), Barton Fink (1991), The Water Engine (1992), In the Line of Fire (1993), Striking Distance (1993), The Hudsucker Proxy (1994), The American President (1995), Primal Fear (1996), Antz (1998) and The Broken Hearts Club (2000). Although he has often played "good guy" roles, Mahoney has occasionally gone into "bad guy" territory, for example in Reality Bites, in which he played a diva talk show host who torments Winona Ryder's character.''Frasier'' He appeared in Frasier from its inception in 1993 until the final episode in 2004, and received numerous Emmy and Golden Globe award nominations for this role. Incidentally, Mahoney also appeared in an episode of Cheers as an inept jingle writer, including a brief conversation with Frasier Crane (Kelsey Grammer), whose father he would later play.Voice workHe also provided the voices for several characters in the animated film Antz (1998), as well as Whitmore in Atlantis: The Lost Empire, General Rogard in The Iron Giant (1999), and Kronk's Papi in Kronk's New Groove (succeeded by Jeff Bennett in The Emperor's New School). In 2007, he provided the voice of Sideshow Bob's father, Dr. Robert Terwilliger Sr. in "Funeral for a Fiend", an episode of The Simpsons. This reunited him with his Frasier co-stars Kelsey Grammer and David Hyde Pierce, who voiced the characters of Sideshow Bob and Cecil, respectively.Current careerMahoney co-starred as The Old Man in the Broadway revival of the play Prelude to a Kiss at the American Airlines Theater in a limited-run engagement from previews February 17, 2007 through April 29, 2007.[http://www.ibdb.com/production.asp?ID=455728 Internet Broadway Database: Prelude to a Kiss] [http://www.broadway.com/gen/Buzz_Story.aspx?ci=542370 Broadway.com "Mahoney, Parisse, Tudyk to Headline Roundabout's Prelude to a Kiss"] He appeared in season 13 of ER as an elderly drag queen in the episode, "Somebody to Love", and in the 2007 romantic comedy film Dan in Real Life, co-starring as the father of Steve Carell and Dane Cook. In March of 2008 he opened in the world premiere of Better Late at the Northlight Theatre. He is also the narrator for Midwest Airlines commercials.Personal lifeMahoney lost all traces of his original Mancunian accent while serving in the U.S. Army, but he did resurrect it once on Frasier, while mocking Daphne Moon (played by English actress Jane Leeves) in the episode Look Before You Leap. In 2003, he returned to his home in Oak Park, Illinois, to work with the Chicago Steppenwolf Theatre again.Mahoney is the uncle of Illinois State Senator John Sullivan.ReferencesExternal linksNBC biography: John MahoneyCenterstage.net: John MahoneyQ&amp;A: John Mahoney at Broadway.com  Category:Actors from Chicago Category:American film actors Category:American Roman Catholics Category:American television actors Category:English Americans Category:English film actors Category:English television actors Category:Naturalized citizens of the United States Category:People from Blackpool Category:People from Oak Park, Illinois Category:Quincy University alumni Category:Tony Award winners Category:United States Army soldiers Category:English Roman Catholicsde:John Mahoney es:John Mahoney fr:John Mahoney it:John Mahoney nl:John Mahoney pl:John Mahoney pt:John Mahoney fi:John Mahoney sv:John Mahoney