Èze ("Eza" in Italian) is a commune in the Alpes-Maritimes department in southeastern France, not far from the town of Nice.HistoryThe area surrounding Èze was first populated around 2000BC as a commune situated near Mount Bastide. The earliest occurrence of the name "Èze" can be found in the maritime books of Antonin as a bay called the St. Laurent of Èze. The area was subsequently occupied by not only the Romans but also the Moors who held the area for approximately 80 years until they were driven out by William of Provence in 973.By 1388 Èze fell under the jurisdiction of the House of Savoy, who built up the town as a fortified stronghold because of its proximity to Nice. The history of Èze became turbulant several times in the next few centuries as French and Turkish troops seized the village under orders from Barbarossa in 1543, and Louis the XIV destroyed the walls surrounding the city in 1706 in the war of succession of Spain. Finally in April 1860, Eze was designated as part of France by unanimous decision by the people of Eze.Èze has been described as an “eagle's nest” because of its location overlooking a high cliff located 427m above sea level on the French Mediterranean. The high elevation enables the village and the light ochre church within (Notre Dame de l’Assomption built in 1764) to be seen from afar. Inside the church, an Egyptian cross acts as a reminder that the roots of the village date back to the time of the Phoenicians, when they erected a temple there to honour the goddess Isis.Traditionally, the territory of the Principality of Monaco was considered to begin in the Èze village (outskirts of Nice), running along the Mediterranean coast to Menton, on the present Italian border.TourismÈze is famous worldwide for the view of the sea from the top of its hill, and it is a renowned tourist site on the French Riviera. It is home to the Jardin botanique d'Èze, known for its collection of cactus and succulents as well as its panoramic views.The oldest building in the village is the Chapelle de la Sainte Croix and dates back to 1306. Members of the lay order of the White Penitents of Èze, in charge of giving assistance to plague victims, would hold their meetings there. The shape of the bell-turret is an indication that the village once belonged to the Republic of Genoa.The small medieval village is famous for its beauty and charm. It has many shops, art galleries, hotels and restaurants that attract a large number of tourists and honeymooners. As a result Èze has become a "museum village", few local residents live here. From Èze you have gorgeous views of the Mediterranean Sea. The Fragonard perfume factory has a sales outlet here.The motto of the village is the phrase: "Isis Moriendo Renascor" (meaning "In death I am Reborn") and its emblem is a Phoenix perched on a bone.The local dialect (nearly extinguished) is similar to the Monegasque language of the nearby Principality of Monaco, and is partially related to the Ligurian language but with some influences from the Occitan language.TriviaAccording to a popular credence, the view of the sea from the top of Èze sur Mer inspired Dante Alighieri in the description of some scenarios of his Inferno.Bono, lead singer of U2, owns a villa in Èze along with U2's lead guitarist, The Edge. The band filmed a music video in Èze for "Beautiful Day" and "Electrical Storm" in 2000 and 2002, respectively.Èze was also featured in the Monaco episode of Samantha Brown's Passport to Europe in which she stayed overnight at an Inn during its off-season, when it was virtually empty.Gallery Image:EzeVillage.JPG|The old city of Eze on top of a hill Image:Image-eze vue du jardin botanique.jpg|View of Èze from the Exotic Garden Image:Eze_Street_1.JPG|A typical street Image:Eze_Street.JPG|Typical street and houses Image:Eze Eglise.jpg|The Church of Èze (Notre Dame de l’Assomption) Image:Eze Inside Church.JPG|Inside the Church Image:Eze_jardin_exotique.JPG|The Exotic GardenImage:Eze view from garden.JPG|View from Èze toward Cap Ferrat External linksOfficial website of Èze Tourist OfficeEzeceb:Eze de:Èze es:Èze fr:Èze it:Èze nl:Èze ja:エズ pl:Èze sr:Езе sv:Èze vo:Èze