) |company_slogan = |foundation =Merger between Time Inc. and Warner Communications (1990); subsequently purchased by AOL (2001) |location =Chicago (main) New York City (subsidiary), U.S. (incorporated in Wilmington, Delaware and Chicago, Illinois) Corporate Governance, TimeWarner website |key_people = Richard D.Parsons, ChairmanJeffrey L. Bewkes, President and CEOWayne Pace, CFO |num_employees = 86,400 (2008) |market cap = $46 Billion (2008)|industry = Broadcasting, publishing, Internet, telecommunications |products = See list of assets owned by Time Warner. |revenue = $40.615 Billion (2008) |profit = $4.387 Billion (2008) |homepage = timewarner.com Time Warner Inc. () is the world's largest media and entertainment conglomerate, headquartered in New York City. Formerly three separate companies: Warner Communications, Inc. and Time Inc. before the Time-Warner merger in 1990 and America Online, Inc. before its purchase of Time Warner in 2001 has created the current Time Warner , with major operations in film, television, publishing, Internet service and telecommunications. Among its subsidiaries are AOL, New Line Cinema, Time Inc., Time Warner Cable, HBO, Turner Broadcasting System, The CW Television Network, UBU Productions, Warner Bros. Entertainment, Cartoon Network, CNN, and DC Comics.1970sWarner Communications was established in 1972 when Kinney National Company spun off its non-entertainment assets, due to a financial scandal over its parking operations.It was the parent company for Warner Bros. Pictures and Warner Music Group during the 1970s and 1980s. It also owned DC Comics and ''Mad'', as well as a majority stake in Garden State National Bank (an investment it was ultimately required to sell pursuant to requirements under the Bank Holding Company Act). Warner's initial divestiture efforts led by Garden State CEO Charles A. Agemian were blocked by Garden State board member William A. Conway in 1978; a revised transaction was later completed in 1980.Warner made considerable profits (and later losses) with Atari, which it owned from 1976 to 1984. In 1976, Nolan Bushnell sold his Atari company to Warner Communications for an estimated $28–32 million. While part of Warner, Atari achieved its greatest success, selling millions of Atari 2600s and computers. At its peak, Atari accounted for a third of Warner's annual income and was the fastest-growing company in the history of the United States at the time.In 1975, Warner expanded under the guidance of CEO Steve Ross and formed a joint venture with American Express, named Warner-Amex Satellite Entertainment, which held cable channels including MTV (launched 1981), Nickelodeon (launched 1979) and The Movie Channel. Warner bought out American Express's half in 1984, and sold the venture a year later to Viacom, which renamed it MTV Networks.1980sIn 1980, Warner purchased The Franklin Mint for about $225 million. The combination was short lived: Warner sold The Franklin Mint in 1985 to American Protection Industries Inc. (API) for $167.5 million. However, Warner retained Franklin Mint’s Eastern Mountain Sports as well as The Franklin Mint Center, which it leased back to API.In February 1983, Warner expanded their interests to baseball. Under the direction of Ceasar P. Kimmel, executive vice president, bought 48 percent of the Pittsburgh Pirates for $10 million. The company then put up its share for sale in November 1984 following losses of $6 million. The team's elderly majority owner, John W. Galbreath, soon followed suit after learning of Warner's actions.  Galbreaths to Sell Pirates PITTSBURGH, New York TimesIn 1984, due to the video game crash of 1983, Warner sold the consumer division of Atari to Jack Tramiel. It kept the arcade division and renamed it Atari Games. They sold Atari Games to Namco in 1985, and repurchased it in 1994, renaming it Time-Warner Interactive, until it was sold to Midway Games in 1996. Meanwhile, in 1987, it was announced that Warner Communications and Time Inc. were to merge. The last thing Warner did before the merger closed in 1989 was to buy out Lorimar-Telepictures.1990sIn early 1990, the combined companies were named Time Warner. This company subsequently acquired Ted Turner's Turner Broadcasting System in October 1996. Not only did this result in the company (in a way) re-entering the basic cable television industry, but Warner Bros. also regained the rights to their pre-1948 film library, which by then had been owned by Turner (the films are still technically held by Turner, but WB is responsible for sales and distribution).Time Warner had also been owner of the Six Flags Theme Parks chain during the 1990s after near bankruptcy. It sold all Six Flags parks and properties to Oklahoma based Premier Parks on April 1, 1998.2000sIn 2000, a new company called AOL Time Warner, with Steve Case as chairman, was created when AOL purchased Time Warner for US$164bn. The deal, announced on 10 January 2000 and officially filed on 11 February 2000, employed a merger structure in which each original company merged into a newly created entity. The Federal Trade Commission cleared the deal on December 14, 2000, and gave final approval on January 11, 2001; the company completed the merger later that day. The deal was approved on the same day by the Federal Communications Commission, and had already been cleared the European Commission on 11 October 2000. The shareholders of AOL owned 55% of the new company while Time Warner shareholders owned only 45%, meaning that the smaller AOL had in fact bought out the far larger Time Warner.After the merger, the profitability of the ISP division (America Online) decreased. Meanwhile, the market valuation of similar independent internet companies drastically fell. As a result, the value of the America Online division dropped significantly. This forced a goodwill write-off, causing AOL Time Warner to report a loss of $99 billion in 2002 — at the time, the largest loss ever reported by a company. In 2003, the company dropped the "AOL" from its name, and removed Steve Case as executive chairman in favor of Richard Parsons, with AOL remaining a part of the company. That same year, Time Warner spun off Time-Life's ownership under the legal name Direct Holdings Americas, Inc. Case resigned from the Time Warner board on October 31, 2005.CNN.comIn 2005, Time Warner was among 53 entities that contributed the maximum of $250,000 to the second inauguration of President George W. Bush.   On December 27, 2007 newly installed Time Warner CEO Jeffrey Bewkes discussed possible plans to spin-off Time Warner Cable and sell-off AOL and Time Inc. This would leave a smaller company made up of Turner Broadcasting, Warner Bros and HBO.Bloomberg.com: Time Warner May End Reign as Largest Media Company On February 28, 2008 co-chairmen and co-CEOs of New Line Cinema Bob Shaye and Michael Lynne announced their resignations from the 40-year-old movie studio in response to Jeffrey Bewkes's demand for cost-cutting measures at the studio, which he intended to dissolve into Warner Bros.Transactions made since the AOL-Time Warner merger Since the merger, a number of transactions have taken place:The professional wrestling company WCW was sold to competitor and investing creditor WWE for $7 million.The Atlanta Hawks, Atlanta Thrashers, and operating rights to Philips Arena were sold in mid-2003.The fifty percent share in the cable channel Comedy Central was sold to Viacom.Warner Music Group was sold to a group of investors led by Edgar Bronfman Jr. in March 2004.AOL/Netscape's longrunning litigation against Microsoft was settled out of court.Time Warner announced that it was shutting down its CNNfn financial information channel and disposing of its share in Google (2004).On March 31, 2006 Time Warner sold the Time Warner Book Group to French publisher Hachette Livre, of the Lagardere group.On February 7, 2006, a group led by corporate raider Carl Icahn and Lazard Frères CEO Bruce Wasserstein unveiled a 343-page proposal calling for the breakup of Time Warner into four companies and stock buybacks totaling approximately $20 billion. On February 17, 2006, the Icahn-lead group agreed with Time Warner to not contest the re-election of TW's slate of board members at the 2006 shareholders meeting. In exchange for the Icahn group's cooperation, Time Warner will buy back up to $20 billion of stock, nominate more independent members to the board of directors, cut $1 billion of costs by 2007, and continue discussions with the Icahn group over their proposal, particularly on the future of Time Warner Cable.On February 23, 2006, Time Warner announced that Turner South, a regional sports and entertainment network in the south, will be sold to News Corp's Fox Cable Networks group.On September 12, 2006, Time Inc. announced that Time4 Media, a group of men's interest magazines including Popular Science and Outdoor Life was to be put up for sale. The sale will include 18 publications (including three parenting-related titles).In the fall of 2006, the Atlanta Braves were sold to Liberty Media in a deal that returned vast amounts of Liberty-owned Time Warner stock back into the company's folds.In the summer of 2008, the Reader's Digest Association sold QSP to Time Warner subsidiary Time Inc. for $110 million. The CW Television Network On January 24, 2006, CBS Corporation and Time Warner announced that they were to create a new broadcast network, The CW Television Network. The network officially debuted on September 18, 2006. The network formally debuted on September 20 with the 2 hour premiere of America's Next Top Model.The network is the result of a merger of The WB Television Network (a Time Warner holding) and UPN (a CBS Corporation holding). CBS Corporation and Time Warner each own 50% of the network. Tribune Broadcasting (previously owned a 25% stake on The WB) and CBS Corporation contributed its stations as new network affiliates.Time Inc.The Time Inc. division publishes approximately 150 titles worldwide. It is the leading magazine publisher in the U.S. and UK, and is understood to be profitable at US$5 billion in annual revenues.NYPost As of January 2007, the unit is experiencing downsizing.&quot;As Time Inc. Cuts Jobs, One Writer on Britney May Have to Do&quot;, New York Times, January 15, 2007, accessed March 30, 2008. In January 2007, the Bonnier Magazine Group agreed to acquire 18 magazines that Time Inc. was divesting. The magazines in the package employed 550 people and included Field &amp; Stream, Outdoor Life, Ski, Yachting, and TransWorld Snowboarding, as well as 11 other titles that were part of Time Inc.'s Time4Media Group. Also included were Parenting, and Baby Talk, which were part of the Parenting Group.NY PostFinancialsIn 2004, Time Warner's market capitalization was $84 billion. When the AOL-Time Warner merger was announced in January 2000, the combined market capitalization was $280 billion.For fiscal year 2002 the company reported a $99 billion loss on its income statement TWX annual statement because of $100 billion in non-recurring charges, almost all from a writedown of the goodwill (intangible asset) from the merger in 2000. The value of the AOL portion of the company had dropped sharply with the collapse of the Internet boom, in the early 2000s.Commercial propertiesTime Warner Inc. owns several large properties in New York City; certain buildings in the Rockefeller Center complex and adjacent office towers house its main offices; one of which houses a CNN news studio. In late 2003, Time Warner finished construction of a new twin-tower complex, designed to serve as additional office space, facing Columbus Circle on the southwestern edge of Central Park. Originally called the AOL Time Warner Center, the 755-foot, 55-floor mixed-use property was renamed Time Warner Center when the company itself was renamed.Board of directorsAs of Jan 2007.James L. Barksdale - Barksdale ManagementStephen F. Bollenbach - Hilton Hotels CorporationFrank J. Caufield - Kleiner Perkins Caufield &amp; ByersRobert C. Clark - Harvard UniversityMathias Döpfner - CEO of Germany's Axel Springer AGJessica P. Einhorn - Johns Hopkins UniversityReuben Mark - Colgate-Palmolive CompanyMichael A. Miles - Altria Group (Parent co. of Philip Morris)Ken Novack - former Time Warner - Affiliate DirectorRichard D. Parsons - Chairman of the Board & Chief Executive OfficerFrancis T. Vincent, Jr. - Vincent EnterprisesDeborah C. Wright - Carver BancorpEdward J. Zander - Chairman and CEO of Motorola Inc.Malcolm-Jamal Warner - Producer of Cartoon Network/Warner Bros.Senior ExecutivesTime Warner Inc.Richard Parsons, Chairman of the Board of Time Warner Inc.Kenny Mulfort, President/CEO of Time Warner Inc.SubsidiariesRandy Falco, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of AOL LLC.Glenn A. Britt, President and CEO of Time Warner CableBarry Meyer, Chairman and CEO of Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc.Bill Nelson, Chairman and CEO of Home Box OfficeJonathan Clavin, Chairman and President of Intercontinental Operations of Turner Broadcasting SystemPeyton Bateman, President of Publishing Corporation of Turner Broadcasting SystemPhilip I. Kent, Chairman and CEO of Turner Broadcasting SystemAnn S. Moore, Chairman and CEO of Time Inc.Competition Time Warner faces industry competition from traditional media companies such as CBS Corporation, The Walt Disney Company, News Corporation, and Viacom, as well as online search portals such as Yahoo!, and Google for competition of viewer attention which translates to ad sales. According to the recent 10Q, in order to remain competitive, Time Warner and AOL must keep pace with rapid technological changes on the internet. Time Warner's business may be severely impacted by the increasing "piracy" of feature films, television programming and other content which decreases company revenues.Time Warner profileAOL's subscriber base is declining, and declines are expected to continue, adversely affecting subscription and advertising revenue. As more individuals are using non-PC devices to access the Internet, AOL is under pressure to secure placement of its services and applications on mobile devices.Box office receipts and the growth rate of DVD sales have recently been declining, which adversely affects Warner Brothers' growth prospects and revenues.Recent 10Q ReportReferencesTriangle Business Journal: Time Warner Cable thinking green with local HQPast namesNational Cleaning CompanyKinney Parking CompanyKinney National Company (1966-1972)Warner Communications (1972-1990)Time Warner (1990-2001, 2003-present)AOL Time Warner Inc. (2001-2003)See alsoList of conglomeratesList of United States companiesList of assets owned by Time WarnerTime-Life - former direct marketing (books, music, video) subsidiary;Ted TurnerSteve CaseUbu Productions, a production companyReel Works Teen Filmmaking - a documentary youth program sponsored by Time WarnerFootnotesExternal linksTime Warner corporate websiteA complete list of Time Warner media facilities and a detailed report on their campaign contributions and lobbying from the Center for Public IntegrityKetupa - Time Warner profileColumbia Journal Review's Who Owns What for Time WarnerEarly analysis of the Time Warner-AOL mergerYahoo! - Time Warner Inc. Company ProfileTime Warner's most recent conference call transcripts Category:Companies established in 1990 Category:Entertainment companies of the United States Category:Companies based in New York City Category:Companies listed on the New York Stock Exchange Time Warner, Inc. Category:Time Warnerca:Time Warner da:Time Warner de:Time Warner es:Time Warner fr:Time Warner ko:타임 워너 it:Time Warner hu:Time Warner nl:Time Warner ja:タイム・ワーナー no:Time Warner pl:Time Warner pt:Time Warner ro:Time Warner ru:Time Warner sq:Time Warner sl:Time Warner fi:Time Warner sv:Time Warner vi:Time Warner zh:时代华纳