 | image = Abendsegler-drawing.jpg | image_width = 200px | image_caption = Nyctalus sp., a Vesper bat | regnum = Animalia | phylum = Chordata | classis = Mammalia | ordo = Chiroptera | subordo = Microchiroptera | familia = Vespertilionidae | familia_authority = Gray, 1821 | subdivision_ranks = Subfamilies | subdivision = Vespertilioninae Murininae Myotinae Miniopterinae Kerivoulinae Evening bats or, perhaps more correctly, Vesper bats (family Vespertilionidae) are the largest and best-known family of bats. They belong to the suborder Microchiroptera (microbats). There are over 300 species distributed all over the world, on every continent except Antarctica. Sometimes the family is called "common bats".CharacteristicsAlmost all Vesper bats are insect-eaters, exceptions being some Myotis and Pizonyx that catch fish and the larger Nyctalus species that have been known on occasion to catch small Passerine birds in flight. The dental formula of vesper bats varies between species: They rely mainly on echolocation, but they lack the enlarged noses that some microbats have in order to improve the ultrasound beam, and instead "shout" through their open mouths to project their ultrasound beam. In compensation many species have relatively large ears.As a group, Vesper bats cover the full gamut of flight ability with the relatively weak flying Pipistrellus that have fluttery, almost insect-like flight to the long winged and fast flying genera such as Lasiurus, Nyctalus and Miniopteris. The family size range is from 3 to 13 cm in length, excluding the tail, which is itself quite long in most species. They are generally brown or grey in color, but some have brightly colored fur, with reds, oranges, and yellows all being known, and many having white patches or stripes.Most species roost in caves, although some make use of hollow trees, rocky crevices, animal burrows, or other forms of shelter. There is also a great variation in the size of vesper bat colonies, with some roosting alone, and others in groups of anything up to a million individuals. Species native to temperate latitudes typically hibernate, while a few of the tropical species aestivate.ClassificationFive subfamilies are recognized:Subfamily VespertilioninaeEudiscopus (Disk-footed bat)Pipistrellus (Pipistrelles or Pipistrelle bats)Scotozous (Dormer's bat)Nyctalus (Noctule bats)Glischropus (Thick-thumbed bats)Eptesicus (House bats)Ia (Great evening bats)Vespertilio (Frosted bats)Laephotis (long-eared bata)Histiotus (Big-eared Brown bats)Philetor (Rohu's Bat)Tylonycteris (Bamboo bats)Mimetillus (Moloney's Mimic Bat)HesperoptenusChalinolobus (Wattled bats)Glauconycteris (Butterfly bats)Nycticeius (Evening bats)Nycticeinops (Schlieffen's Twilight bat)Scoteanax (Greater Broad-nosed bats)Scotorepens (Lesser Broad-nosed bats)Scotoecus (House bats)Rhogeessa (Rhogeessa bats)Scotomanes (Harlequin bat)Scotophilus (Yellow bats)Otonycteris (Desert Long-eared bats)Lasiurus (Hairy-tailed bats)Barbastella (Barbastelles or Barbastelle bats)Plecotus (Lump-nosed bats)Idionycteris (Allen's Big-eared bat)Euderma (Spotted bat)Nyctophilus (New Guinean and Australian Big-eared bats)Pharotis (New Guinea Big-eared Bat)Corynorhinus (American Lump-nosed bats)Hypsugo (Asian pipistrelles)Subfamily MurininaeMurina (Tube-nosed Insectivorous bats)Harpiocephalus (Hairy-winged bats)Subfamily MyotinaeCistugo (Wing-gland bats)Myotis (Little Brown bats)Lasionycteris (Silver-haired bats)Subfamily MiniopterinaeMiniopterus (Long-winged bats)Subfamily KerivoulinaeKerivoula (Painted bats)PhoniscusThe above grouping of subfamilies is the classification according to Simmons and Geisler (1998). Other authorities raise three subfamilies more: Antrozoinae (which is here the separate family of Pallid bats), Tomopeatinae (now regarded as a subfamily of the Free-tailed bats) and Nyctophilinae (here included in Vespertilioninae).ReferencesFurther readingCorbet, GB, Hill JE. 1992. The mammals of the Indomalayan region: a systematic review. Oxford University Press, Oxford.Karim, C., A.A. Tuen and M.T. Abdullah. 2004. Mammals. Sarawak Museum Journal Special Issue No. 6. 80: 221-234.Wilson DE, Reeder DM. 2005. Mammal species of the world. Smithsonian Institution Press, Washington DC.Category:Vesper batsbg:Гладконоси прилепи ca:Vespertiliònid de:Glattnasen es:Vespertilionidae fr:Vespertilionidae ko:애기박쥐과 it:Vespertilionidae ka:ღამურასებრნი lv:Parastie sikspārņi lt:Lygianosiniai hu:Simaorrú denevérek nl:Gladneuzen pl:Mroczkowate pt:Vespertilionidae ru:Гладконосые летучие мыши sl:Gladkonosi netopirji fi:Siipat sv:Läderlappar zh:蝙蝠科