The Coat of Arms of Colombia contains a shield with numerous symbols. Perched on top of the shield is an Andean Condor holding an olive crown and the condor symbolizing freedom. The national motto, Libertad y Orden (Spanish for Liberty and Order), is on a scroll in between the bird and the shield in black font over golden background. The condor is depicted facing front with his wings extended and looking to the right.DescriptionThe national flag is draped on each side of the shield. The shield is broken into three portions. In the lowermost portion is a depiction of ships, pointing to the maritime history of Colombia, namely to the Isthmus of Panama, which was part of Colombia until 1903. Nowadays represents the two oceans that border the country (Atlantic and Pacific). The sails mean the Colombian commerce with the rest of the world and the rising economy. In the middle section, over a field of platinum, the Phrygian cap is presented; this being a traditional symbol of liberty and freedom. The topmost section contains a pomegranate over a field of azure, as a symbol of the Viceroyalty of New Granada (early colonial name of Colombia back in XIX century), in the middle flanked by two cornucopias or horns of plenty: the one at the right with golden and silver coins and the one at the left with tropical fruits. This portion represents the agricultural and mineral wealth of Colombian soil.And I am stupit ya this is the lifeThe Coat of Arms of the Republic was designed by Francisco de Paula Santander, and was adopted via Act 3 of May 9, 1834, with later non-essential modifications according to Ordinance 861 of 1924.CriticismSome critics have argued that the Coat of Arms is outdated and anachronistic, being the Andean Condor a very threatened species in the country, with barely 100 creatures soaring the landscape. It has also been discussed that the condor is still a vulture and feeds of carrion, making it an animal with a low profile that never hunts its own food. In addition, the andean condor is also the national bird of Ecuador, Bolivia, Chile and Argentina. The pomegranate, being a Mediterranean fruit is not currently cultivated in Colombia and the phrigian cap is of Greek origin. The Isthmus of Panama, no longer belonging to Colombia, has also been suggested to be changed. Colombia Category:Colombian coats of arms Category:National symbols of Colombia bs:Grb Kolumbije cy:Arfbais Colombia de:Wappen Kolumbiens et:Colombia vapp el:Εθνόσημο της Κολομβίας es:Escudo de Colombia fr:Armoiries de la Colombie bpy:কলম্বিয়ার চিনত্হান he:סמל קולומביה lt:Kolumbijos herbas hu:Kolumbia címere nl:Wapen van Colombia ja:コロンビアの国章 pl:Herb Kolumbii pt:Brasão de armas da Colômbia ru:Герб Колумбии sh:Grb Kolumbije sv:Colombias statsvapen zh:哥伦比亚国徽