    Toronto, Ontario, Canada | Died = | Alias = | Genre = Rock, Folk rock, Country rock, Roots rock | Instruments = Guitar, Piano, Harmonica, Autoharp, Harp guitar | Occupation = Musician, Songwriter, Producer, Actor | Years_active = 1958 – Present | Associated_acts = The Band | Label = Capitol | Notable_instruments =  Robbie Robertson (born Jaime Robert Klegerman, 5 July 1943 at Toronto, Ontario, Canada) is a songwriter, guitarist and singer. He is best known for his membership in The Band. He was ranked 78th in Rolling Stone magazine’s list of the 100 Greatest Guitarists of All Time.BiographyEarly lifeBorn to a Jewish father and a Mohawk mother (he took his stepfather's last name after his mother remarried), Robertson had his earliest exposure to music at Six Nations of the Grand River First Nation, where he spent summers with his mother's family. He studied guitar from his youth and has been writing songs and performing since his teen years.By 1958, Robertson was performing in various groups around Toronto, including Little Caesar and the Consuls. By 1959 he had met singer Ronnie Hawkins, who headed up a band called The Hawks (after relocating to Canada). In 1960 Hawkins recorded two early Robertson songs ("Hey Boba Lu" and "Someone Like You") on his Mr. Dynamo LP. Robertson then took over lead guitar with The Hawks and toured often, before splitting from Hawkins in 1963. Robertson appears on several of Ronnie Hawkin's albums and compilations.The quintet styled themselves as The Canadian Squires and Levon and the Hawks http://www.canoe.ca/JamMusicPopEncycloPagesR/robertson.html, but (after rejecting such tongue-in-cheek names as The Honkies and The Crackers) ultimately called themselves The Band.The Band Bob Dylan hired The Band for his famed, controversial tour of 1966, his first wide exposure as an electrified rock and roll performer rather than his earlier acoustic folk sound. Robertson's distinctive guitar sound was an important part of the music; Dylan famously praised him as "the only mathematical guitar genius I’ve ever run into who doesn’t offend my intestinal nervousness with his rearguard sound."From their first album, Music from Big Pink (1968), The Band was praised as one of rock music's preeminent groups. Rolling Stone magazine praised The Band and gave its music extensive coverage. Robertson sang only a few songs with The Band, but was the group's primary songwriter, and was in the later years of the Band often seen as the de facto bandleader.In 1976, The Band broke up due to the stresses of sixteen years of touring. In the Martin Scorsese film The Last Waltz (1978) Robertson noted that he had been playing live rock and roll music almost since rock and roll began. Also, credited officially as the band's main songwriter, he was able to live off the song royalties, and no longer needed to tour. The Band reformed in 1983 without Robertson.Solo careerRobertson produced Neil Diamond's albums Beautiful Noise in 1976 and Love At The Greek (live) in 1977.In 1978 The Band Released Anthology, Vol. I a greatest Hits album.Between 1979 and 1980 Robertson co-starred with Gary Busey and Jodie Foster in Carny. He also co-wrote, produced, and composed source music for the film. Inspired by Carny soundtrack composer Alex North, with whom he worked, Robertson became one of the first rock 'n' rollers to seriously engage the medium of film. For Scorsese's Raging Bull, Robertson created background music and produces source music. Released is The Band's Anthology, Vol. II.Between 1982 and 1986 Robertson managed to stay quite busy. For another Scorsese film, King Of Comedy (released the following year), Robertson serves as music producer, assembling tunes by The Pretenders, Talking Heads, Ray Charles, Rickie Lee Jones and others. He also contributes with his first post-Band solo recording, "Between Trains." Additionally, he produced and played guitar on Van Morrison's "Wonderful Remark." Robertson signed via A&R executive Gary Gersh for his debut solo album on Geffen Records. Robertson recorded with producer (and fellow Canadian) Daniel Lanois. He also scores Scorsese's The Color Of Money working with Gil Evans and co-wrote with Eric Clapton (It's In The Way That You Use It") and Willie Dixon.For Taylor Hackford's film saluting Chuck Berry, Hail, Hail Rock & Roll, Robertson was enlisted as creative consultant.From 1987 onwards, Robertson released a series of four solo albums that began with a self-titled album. In 1990, he contributed to Japanese musician Ryuichi Sakamoto's album Beauty. Robertson's song "Broken Arrow", off the Robbie Robertson album, was covered by Rod Stewart on his album Vagabond Heart and became a hit single. "Broken Arrow" was also a part of the Grateful Dead's rotation of live songs 1993-95 (sung by bassist Phil Lesh), and later with Phil Lesh and Friends.In 1995, in Rome, Robertson headlined an annual Labor Day concert festival with support acts Andrea Bocelli, Elvis Costello, and Radiohead. More than 300,000 fans attended the event.In 1996, Executive soundtrack producer Robertson hears a demo of "Change The World" and sends it to Clapton as a suggestion for the soundtrack to Phenomenon, starring John Travolta. He then enlists Babyface to produce the track. "Change the World" wins 1997 Grammy® Awards for Song of the Year and Record of the Year.In 1997, Robertson receives a prestigious Lifetime Achievement Award from the National Academy of Songwriters.From 1997 to 2000, Robertson stayed busy with side projects and documentaries.In 2000, music industry legends David Geffen and Mo Ostin convinced Robertson to join DreamWorks Records as Creative Executive. Robertson, who persuaded Grammy® Award winner Nelly Furtado to sign with the company, is actively involved with film projects and developing new artist talent, including signings of AI, Boomkat, Daniel DeBourg, eastmountainsouth, and singer-songwriter-pianist Dana Glover.On 9 February 2002, Robertson performed "Stomp Dance (Unity)" as part of the Opening Ceremony of the 2002 Winter Olympic Games in Salt Lake City, Utah.At the 2003 commencement ceremonies at Queen's University in Kingston, Ontario, Robertson delivered an address to the graduating class and was awarded an honorary degree by the university. In 2006, he announced plans to write his autobiography.In 2003, Robertson was inducted into Canada's Walk of Fame.In 2006, Robertson recorded with Jerry Lee Lewis and Samuel Bidleman on "Last man standing" on track "Twilight".On July 28,2007, at Eric Clapton's Crossroads Guitar Festival in Bridgeview, Ill, Robertson made a rare appearance on stage and played briefly.According to an article in the February 9 2008 edition of the Winnipeg Sun, Robertson is said to be working with Eric Clapton on an album of new material.Martin ScorseseMartin Scorsese was hired to direct The Last Waltz based on his use of music in Mean Streets. The two lived together during the editing of Waltz and became friends. Scorsese had later admitted that during the editing process, the two of them heavily used drugs. Scorsese hired Robertson to compose the musical score for his 1980 film Raging Bull, and in the years since the two have been frequent collaborators. Robertson would later work on Scorsese's movies The King of Comedy, The Color of Money, Casino and The Departed, and act as executive music director for Gangs of New York.DiscographyAlbums with The Band1968 Music from Big Pink1969 The Band1970 Stage Fright1971 Cahoots1972 Rock of Ages (live concert album)1973 Moondog Matinee (collection of covers)1974 Before the Flood (live album with The Band and Bob Dylan)1975 Northern Lights - Southern Cross1975 The Basement Tapes (with Bob Dylan)1977 Islands1978 The Last Waltz (live concert album with additional studio material)Solo recordings1987 Robbie Robertson (featuring U2, Peter Gabriel and the BoDeans on several tracks)1991 Storyville1994 Music for The Native Americans1998 Contact from the Underworld of RedBoyFilm creditsRobertson is credited in the following films:1978 The Last Waltz (performer/producer)1980 Carny (actor/writer/producer)1980 Raging Bull (music producer)1983 The King of Comedy (music producer)1986 The Color of Money (songs and score)1991 Until the End of the World (music)1994 Jimmy Hollywood (music)1995 Casino (music consultant)1995 The Crossing Guard (actor - Roger)1996 Phenomenon (executive soundtrack producer)1996 Dakota Exile (narrator)1999 Forces of Nature (creative music consultant)1999 Wolves (narrator)1999 Any Given Sunday (songs)2001 The Life and Times of Robbie Robertson2002 Gangs of New York (executive music producer)2002 Skins (film) (writer/performer)2004 Jenifa (co-producer/executive producer)2004 Ladder 49 (original song)2006 The Departed (music producer)2007 Eric Clapton: Crossroads Guitar Festival 2007 (performer)2008 Mardik: From Baghdad to Hollywood (actor)References http://www.maplemusic.com/artists/ror/bio.aspExternal linksInterview with Robbie Robertson KUOW RadioReport on Robertson's forthcoming collaboration with Eric Clapton Category:1943 births Category:Living people Category:The Band members Category:Canadian Jews Category:Canadian male singers Category:Canadian rock guitarists Category:Canadian rock singers Category:Canadian singer-songwriters Category:Canadian country rock musicians Category:First Nations musicians Category:Canada's Walk of Fame Category:Juno Award winners Category:Mohawk people Category:Officers of the Order of Canada Category:Ontario musicians Category:People from Torontode:Robbie Robertson es:Robbie Robertson fr:Robbie Robertson it:Robbie Robertson nl:Robbie Robertson no:Robbie Robertson pl:Robbie Robertson fi:Robbie Robertson sv:Robbie Robertson