Ludwig Alois Ferdinand Ritter von Köchel () (January 14, 1800 – June 3, 1877) was a musicologist, writer, composer, botanist and publisher. He is best known for cataloguing the works of Mozart and originating the 'K-numbers' by which they are known (K'' for ''Köchel).Born in the town of Stein, Lower Austria, he studied law in Vienna, and for fifteen years was tutor to the four sons of Archduke Charles of Austria. Köchel was rewarded with a knighthood and a generous financial settlement, permitting him to spend the rest of his life as a private scholar. Contemporary scientists were greatly impressed by his botanical researches in North Africa, the Iberian Peninsula, the United Kingdom, the North Cape, and Russia. Additional to botany, he was interested in geology and mineralogy, but also loved music, and was a member of the Mozarteum Salzburg.Köchel catalogueIn 1862 he published the Köchel catalogue, a chronological and thematic register of the works of Mozart. This catalogue was the first on such a scale and with such a level of scholarship behind it; it has since undergone revisions. Mozart's works are often referred to by their K-numbers (c.f. opus number); for example, the "Jupiter" symphony, Symphony No. 41 K. 551.Moreover, Köchel arranged Mozart's works into twenty-four categories, which were used by Breitkopf &amp; Härtel when they published the first complete edition of Mozart's works from 1877 to 1910, a venture partly funded by Köchel.He also catalogued the works of Johann Fux.Brook, Barry S.; Viano, Richard J. (1997) . Pendragon Press. page 146. ISBN 091872886X.Ludwig Ritter von Köchel died at age 77 in Vienna.NotesReferencesExternal linksCategory:Austrian nobility Category:Austrian musicologists Category:Wolfgang Amadeus Mozartca:Ludwig von Köchel cs:Ludwig von Köchel da:Ludwig von Köchel de:Ludwig von Köchel es:Ludwig von Köchel eo:Ludoviko de Köchel fr:Ludwig von Köchel it:Ludwig von Köchel he:לודוויג פון קכל nl:Ludwig von Köchel ja:ルートヴィヒ・フォン・ケッヘル pl:Ludwig von Köchel pt:Ludwig von Köchel ru:Кёхель, Людвиг Алоиз Фердинанд фон sl:Ludwig von Köchel fi:Ludwig von Köchel sv:Ludwig von Köchel