 | place of death =Eboracum, Britannia | place of burial= |Flavius Valerius Constantius"Marcus Flavius Valerius Constantius", "Valerius Constantius", "Gaius Valerius Constantius", and "Gaius Fabius Constantius" have been found on inscriptions (March 31 c. 250&ndash;July 25 306) was an emperor of the Western Roman Empire (305&ndash;306). He was commonly called Chlorus (the Pale)From the Greek , meaning pale/yellow-greenish an epithet given to him by Byzantine historians. He was the father of Constantine I and initiator of the Constantinian dynasty.HistoryThe Historia Augusta says Constantius was the son of Eutropius, a noble from northern Dardania in modern Serbia, and Claudia, a niece of the emperors Claudius II and Quintillus.Historia Augusta, Claudius 13 Historians, however, suspect this maternal connection to be a genealogical fabrication created by his grandson Constantine II, thus connecting his family to two rather highly regarded predecessors. Under the emperor Carus, he was governor of Dalmatia, and Carus is said to have considered adopting him as his heir in place of his dissolute son, Carinus.Historia Augusta, Carus 17In 293 the emperor Diocletian created the Tetrarchy, dividing the Roman Empire into Western and Eastern portions. Each would be ruled by an Augustus, supported by a Caesar. Diocletian became Augustus of the Eastern empire, with Galerius as his Caesar. Constantius was appointed Caesar to the Western Augustus, Maximian, and married Theodora, Maximian's stepdaughter. They had six children. Constantius divorced his first wife (or concubine), Helena, by whom he already had a son, Constantine. Helena was probably from Nicomedia in Asia Minor.Eutropius, Breviarum 9.22; Zosimus, Historia Nova 2; Exerpta Valesiana 1.2 He was given command of Gaul, Britain and possibly Hispania.struck in Antioch under Constantius Chlorus, the tetrarchs are sacrificing to celebrate a victory against the Sarmatians.]]In 293, Constantius defeated the forces of Carausius, who had declared himself emperor in Britain and northern Gaul in 286, near Bononia. Carausius was killed by his rationalis Allectus, who took command of Britain until 296, when Constantius sent Asclepiodotus, a prefect of the Praetorian Guard, to invade the island. Allectus was defeated and killed, and Roman rule in Britain restored. Aurelius Victor, Liber de Caesaribus, 39Also in 296, Constantius fought a battle against the Alamanni at the city of Lingonae (Langes) in Gaul. He was shut up in the city, but was relieved by his army after six hours, and defeated the enemy.Eutropius, Breviarum 9.23 He defeated them again at Vindonissa (Windisch, Switzerland),UNRV History: Battle of the Third Century AD thereby strengthening the defenses of the Rhine frontier.Diocletian and Maximian stepped down as co-emperors in 305, due to Diocletian's poor health, and the Caesars, Constantius and Galerius, became co-emperors. Constantius ruled the western empire, Galerius the eastern. Severus and Maximinus were appointed Caesars. Constantine, who had hoped to be a Caesar, joined his father's campaigns in Gaul and Britain.Eutropius, Breviarum 10.1; Aurelius Victor, Epitome de Caesaribus 39; Zosimus, Historia Nova 2 Constantius died in Britain, at York, in 306, and Constantine was declared emperor by the army.Eutropius, Breviarum 10.1-2LegendChristian legendsAs the father of Constantine, a number of Christian legends have grown up around Constantius. Eusebius's Life of Constantine claims that Constantius was himself a Christian, although he pretended to be a pagan, and while Caesar under Diocletian, took no part in the emperor's persecutions.Eusebius, Vita Constantini 1.13-18 His first wife, Helena, is the subject of many legends, including the finding of the True Cross.British legendsConstantius's activities in Britain were remembered in medieval British legend. In Geoffrey of Monmouth's History of the Kings of Britain (1136), he is sent to Britain by the Senate after Asclepiodotus, here a British king, is overthrown by Coel of Colchester. Coel submits to Constantius and agrees to pay tribute to Rome, but dies only eight days later. Constantius marries Coel's daughter Helena and becomes king of Britain. He and Helena have a son, Constantine, who succeeds to the throne of Britain when his father dies at York eleven years later.Geoffrey of Monmouth, Historia Regum Britanniae 5.6 The identification of Helena as British had previously been made by Henry of Huntingdon,Henry of Huntingdon, Historia Anglorum 1.37 but has no historical validity: Constantius had divorced Helena before he went to Britain.NotesExternal links[http://www.roman-emperors.org/chlorus.htm DiMaio, Robert, "Constantius I Chlorus (305-306 A.D.)", DIR]    Category:Caesar emperors Category:Roman emperors Category:Constantinian dynasty Valerius Constantius, Gaius Category:Ancient Romans in Britain Category:British traditional history Category:Deified Roman emperors Category:3rd century Romans Category:4th century Romans Category:250 births Category:306 deathsbg:Констанций I Хлор ca:Constanci I Clor cy:Constantius Chlorus da:Constantius I Chlorus de:Constantius I. et:Constantius I Chlorus el:Κωνστάντιος Α΄ Χλωρός es:Constancio I eo:Konstancio Kloro eu:Konstantzio Kloro fr:Constance Chlore fy:Konstantius Klorus gl:Constancio I Cloro ko:콘스탄티우스 클로루스 hr:Konstancije I. Klor id:Constantius Chlorus it:Costanzo Cloro he:קונסטנטיוס כלורוס sw:Constantius Chlorus la:Constantius Chlorus jbo:la'o zoi Constantius Chlorus zoi hu:Constantius Chlorus mr:कॉन्स्टान्शियस क्लोरस, रोमन सम्राट nl:Constantius I Chlorus ja:コンスタンティウス・クロルス no:Konstantius I pl:Konstancjusz I Chlorus pt:Constâncio Cloro ro:Constantius I ru:Констанций I Хлор scn:Custanzu Cloru sk:Konstantius I. Chlorus sr:Констанције I Хлор fi:Constantius I Chlorus sv:Constantius I Chlorus tl:Constantius Chlorus tr:Constantius Chlorus zh:君士坦提烏斯一世