San Cristóbal de las Casas is a municipality (municipio) and city in the central highlands of the Mexican state of Chiapas. It is located in the Highlands of Chiapas at , at an elevation of approximately 2100 m (6890&nbsp;ft) above mean sea level. The city was named after Bartolomé de Las Casas, a Spanish priest who defended the rights of the Native Americans and was the first bishop of Chiapas. In the 2005 census the city’s population was 142,364 people, whereas the municipality’s total was 166,460. It is the third-largest community in Chiapas, after Tuxtla Gutiérrez and Tapachula. The municipality’s area is 484.00 km² (186.87 sq mi).San Cristóbal de las Casas was named a "Pueblo Mágico" in 2003.HistorySettlement and nameFor thousands of years, Maya peoples, ancestral to the present-day Tzotzil and Tzeltal peoples, have continuously lived in settlements in the general area of the modern city of San Cristóbal.In 1528, the Spanish conquistador, Diego de Mazariegos established the settlement of “Villareal de Chiapa de los Españoles” as a regional base after defeating the Zoques and Chiapanecos in fierce fighting. The settlement became the capital of the province of Chiapas. On March 1, 1535, the Spanish crown bestowed the settlement with un escudo de armas and renamed the city, “San Cristóbal de los Llanos” after its patron saint, St. Christopher. The settlement was given the title of city on July 7, 1536, and once again renamed to “Ciudad Real de Chiapa”. By 1577, the city selected don Juan de Meza as its first mayor.The city’s name underwent frequent modifications. On July 27, 1829 the city became “Ciudad de San Cristóbal” and it was on May 31, 1848 that they city became know as “San Cristóbal de Las Casas”, in honor of Bartolomé de Las Casas. On February 13, 1934, the city became “Ciudad Las Casas”, but this was officially reverted to “San Cristóbal de Las Casas” on November 4, 1943 by Dr. Rafael Pascacio Gamboa. Despite the name changes, the local people continue to call the city by its traditional name, “Jovel”. (During the colonial period, the city was also known as “La Chiapa de los Españoles” and until a few decades ago, it was also known as “Hueyzacatlán”.)Zapatista conflictSan Cristóbal was one of the four cities that the Zapatista Army of National Liberation took in its uprising in January 1994. While many people in San Cristóbal, who consider themselves traditionally rooted here (called Coletos) are very much against the Zapatistas, there are also parts of the population (poor, civil society) that sympathize or openly cooperate with the Zapatista movement. Many tourists are interested in the Zapatista movement. In 2006, the latest political initiative of the Zapatistas, the Other Campaign started from San Cristóbal at the beginning of the year. The Zapatistas are omnipresent in the tourist markets (selling e.g. dolls, posters, t-shirts) in the city.DemographicsSan Cristobal is estimated to have about 200,000 inhabitants. This number has been increasing steadily in the past years, since many rural people have been displaced by the armed conflict in 1994 and the subsequent low-intensity warfare of the Mexican government. The city is located near the Tzotzil Maya communities of Chamula, and Zinacantán, and a half-day bus ride from the Classic Maya ruins of Palenque, and is therefore a popular base of operations for tourists from all over the world looking to experience ancient and modern Maya culture.ReligionThe city is mostly Catholic with many different Protestant churches and nearly 300 Muslims as of 2000. Like many isolated areas with high indigenous populations, the Catholic faith is often mixed with many native beliefs.MediaSan Cristóbal de Las Casas has from several years ago a couple of radio stations broadcasting at AM, XEWM-AM and XERA-AM. The XEWM station can be heard live from the Suprema Radio Group web page.Natural environmentSurrounding San Cristóbal and even within the city there are several typical mountain wetlands. They are home to an endemic fish (Profundulus hildebrandi), commonly known as "popoyote" which only lives in the valley of San Cristóbal. The rivers are heavily contaminated.  Contaminated with what? The valley of San Cristóbal is surrounded by several mountains. To the west, the Huitepec (about 2700m) is home to the Santa Anita holy site, where a Jesus appeared on a rock, and to a natural reserve with cloud forests. To the east, the Cerro de la Santa Cruz is home to a church where on May 3rd of every year a procession takes place. To the north, the Moxviquil has a prehispanic archaeological site. The mountains around San Cristobal are heavily exploited for gravel. The Agua Azul waterfall is close to the area as well.Along with a lack of urban planning and encroachment of the forested hills by migrants, this has led to an elevated danger of floods in the lower-lying areas of San Cristóbal. The valley of San Cristóbal does not have a natural opening towards the Central Depression of Chiapas. The water used to disappear in a lake at the lowest point of the valley in the southern part of the city. In the 1970s a tunnel was built which now evacuates the water.Gallery Image:SanChrisChisPanorama.jpg|Panoramic View Image:SanChrislChisMirador.jpg|Mirador Image:San Cristóbal Santo Domingo.jpg|Santo Domingo Church Image:sancristobal.jpg|San Cristobal Church ReferencesTables of population data from the 2005 census, from INEGI, the national Mexican geography and statistics institute.External linksAyuntamiento de San Cristóbal de las Casas Official websiteFeature about San Cristóbal, including the church of San Juan Chamula and Sumidero CanyonSuprema Radio Group webpageCategory:Cities, towns and villages in Chiapas Category:Municipalities of Chiapas  cs:San Cristóbal de las Casas da:San Cristóbal de las Casas de:San Cristóbal de las Casas es:San Cristóbal de las Casas eo:San Cristóbal de las Casas fr:San Cristóbal de las Casas it:San Cristóbal de Las Casas he:סאן קריסטובל דה לאס קאסאס nah:Huēyizacatlān nl:San Cristóbal de las Casas no:San Cristóbal de las Casas pl:San Cristóbal de las Casas sv:San Cristóbal de las Casas