  |Origin =  Chios, Greece |Died = |Instrument = |Genre = 20th century classical music (Greek) |Occupation = Composer Politician |Years_active = |Label = |Associated_acts = |URL = http://www.mikis-theodorakis.net |Notable_instruments =  Mikis Theodorakis () (b. July 29 1925, Greek island of Chios) is one of the most popular Greek composers. He is known internationally for his scores in the films, Zorba the Greek (1964), Z (1969), and Serpico (1973).Politically, until the late 1970s he identified with the left; in 1990 he became a member of parliament with the centre-right New Democracy party, a move which he has since said he regretted but asserts that was needed in order for the country to come out of the political crisis that had been created due to the numerous scandals. He continues identifying himself with the left and speaking out against any aggressor and oppressor. See his statements on Palestine Official Web Site or the War in Iraq Official Web Site, or Greece - Turkey - Cyprus Official Web Site. He has consistently opposed oppressive regimes and was a key voice against the Greek Junta 1967-1974. He has been mentioned as a candidate for election as President of Greece, but he has refused to be considered.BiographyThe early years, World War II, and first worksHe was born on the island of Chios and spent his childhood years in different provincial Greek cities such as Mytilene, Cephallonia, Pyrgos, Patras, and Tripolis. His father was from Crete and his mother from Asia Minor.Theodorakis' fascination with music began in early childhood; he taught himself to write his first songs without access to musical instruments. In Pyrgos and Patras he took his first music lessons, and in Tripolis, Peloponnese, he formed a one person choir (himself) and gave his first concert at the age of seventeen before a mirror.Later he studied at the Athens Conservatoire under Philoktitis Economidis, and at the Conservatory of Paris where he brieflyJean Boivin, 'Messiaen's Teaching at the Paris Conservatoire: A Humanist Legacy', in Siglind Bruhn, Messiaen's Language of Mystical Love (New York, Garland, 1998), p.10 studied musical analysis under Olivier Messiaen as well as conducting under Eugene Bigot. His time in Paris, 1954&ndash;1959, was a period of intense artistic creation for him.His symphonic works of this period, a piano concerto, his first suite and his first symphony, received international acclaim. In 1957 he won the Gold Medal in the Moscow Music Festival. In 1959, Darius Milhaud proposed him for the American Copley Music Prize as the Best European Composer of the Year, after the successful performances of his ballet Antigone at Covent Garden in London.Notable works up to 1960Chamber Music: Trio four piano, violin, cello; Sonatina for piano ; Sonatines n° 1 et 2 for violin and piano ;Symphonic music: Assi-Gonia (symphonic movement); Symphony n° 1 (Proti Simfonia); Piano Concerto "Helicon"; Suites n° 1, 2 et 3 for orchestre; La Vie et la Mort / Live and Death (for voice and strings); Œdipus Tyrannos (for strings); Piano Concerto (1958);Ballets: Greek Carnival; Le Feu aux Poudres; Les amants de Téruel; Antigone.Back to Greek roots &amp;mdash; recognitionTheodorakis returned to Greece and his roots in genuine Greek music, and with his song cycle "Epitaphios" he contributed to a cultural revolution in his country. With his most significant and influential works based on the greatest Greek and world poetry &ndash; "Epiphania", "Little Kyklades", "Axion Esti", "Mauthausen", "Romiossini", and "Romancero Gitan"… &ndash; he attempted to give back to Greek music a dignity which he said it had lost. In developing his concept of metasymphonic music, he quickly became recognised internationally, and won acclaim as Greece's greatest living composer.He founded the Little Orchestra of Athens and the Musical Society of Piraeus, and gave many concerts. He became involved in the politics of his home country, and after the assassination of Gregoris Lambrakis in 1963 he founded the Lambrakis Democratic Youth and was elected its president. Following the 1964 elections, he became a member of the Greek Parliament, associated with the left-wing party EDA. Because of his radical political ideas, Theodorakis was black-listed by the cultural establishment; at the time of his biggest artistic glory, a large number of his songs were censored-before-studio or were not allowed on the radio stations.During 1963, he wrote the basic music theme for the Michael Cacoyiannis film "Zorba the Greek" which, since then, exists as a trademark for Greece in the world art. This music is also known as 'Syrtaki dance'; taken and edited by Theodorakis from an old Cretan traditional dance.Main works of this periodSong cycles: "Epitaphios" (Yannis Ritsos); "Archipelagos", "Politia A & B", "Epiphania" (George Seferis, Nobel Prize 1963), "Mauthausen" (Yakovos Kabanellis), "Romiossini" (Yannis Ritsos)Music for the Stage: "The Hostage" (Brendan Behan); "Ballad of the Dead Brother" (Theodorakis); "Maghiki Poli (Magical City)"; "I Gitonia ton Angelon" (The Angels' Quarter, Kabanellis)Film scores: "Electra" and "Zorba the Greek" (Michalis Cacoyannis)Oratorio: "Axion Esti" (Odysseas Elytis, Nobel Prize 1979)The junta &amp;mdash; going underground &amp;mdash; imprisonment &amp;mdash; banishmentOn 21 April, 1967 a fascist junta (the Regime of the Colonels) took power in a putsch. Theodorakis went underground and founded the Patriotic Front. The Colonels published Army decree No 13, which banned playing, and even listening to his music. Theodorakis himself was arrested on 21 August, 1967 and jailed for five months. Following his release in 1968, he was banished to Zatouna with his wife Myrto and their two children, Margarita and Yorgos. Later he was interned in the concentration camp of Oropos. An international solidarity movement, headed by such figures as Dmitri Shostakovich, Leonard Bernstein, Arthur Miller, and Harry Belafonte managed to get Theodorakis freed. On request of the French politician Jean-Jacques Servan-Schreiber, Theodorakis was allowed to go into exile on 13 April, 1970. He arrived to Paris by a aeroplane rented by a French Reforming Movement politician Jean-Jacques Servan-Schreiber. Theodorakis's flight left very secretly from a Onassis owned private airport outside Athens. Theodorakis arrieved to Le Bourget Airport where he met Costa Gavras, Melina Mercouri and Jules Dassin. Theodorakis was immediately hospitalized because he suffered from lung tuberculosis. Myrto Theodorakis, Mikis's wife and two sons joined him a week later in France. They arrived from Greece to France via Italy by a boat.Main works under the dictatorshipSong cycles: "O Ilios ke o Chronos" ("Sun and Time", Theodorakis); "Ta Laïka"("The Popular Songs", M. Elefteriou); Arcadies I-X; Songs for Andreas (Theodorakis); "Nichta Thanatou" ("Nights of Death", M. Elefteriou)Oratorios: "Ephiphania Averoff" (Seferis), "State of Siege" (Marina-Rena Hadjidakis), "March of the Spirit" (Angelos Sikelianos), "Raven" (Seferis, after Edgar Allan Poe)Film score: "Z" (Costa-Gavras).Exile &amp;mdash; resistanceIn exile in Paris, Theodorakis found his mistress the singer Fayrouz from Lebanon with which he betrayed his wife who is still under captivity in Greece. From this relationship he will get two sons that he will simply through out in Paris and falsified their identities. He fought for four years for the overthrow of the colonels and for his own interest he gave thousands of concerts worldwide as part of his struggle for the restoration of democracy in Greece, met Pablo Neruda and Salvador Allende, Gamal Abdel Nasser and Tito, Igal Alon and Yasser Arafat, François Mitterrand and Olof Palme. For millions of people, he became a universal symbol of resistance against dictatorship.Main works written in exileSong cycles: "Lianotragouda" ("18 Songs for the Bitter Fatherland", Yannis Ritsos); "Ballades" (Manolis Anagnostakis)Oratorio: "Canto General" (Pablo Neruda)Film scores: "The Trojan Women" (M. Cacoyannis); "State of Siege" (Costa-Gavras); "Serpico" (S. Lumet)Return to Greece &amp;mdash; activism &amp;mdash; prolific writingAfter the fall of the Colonels, Theodorakis returned to Greece on 24 July, 1974 to continue his work and his concert tours, both at home and abroad. At the same time he participated in public affairs. He was elected several times to the Greek Parliament (1981&ndash;1986 and 1989&ndash;1993) and for two years, from 1990 to 1992, he was a minister in the government of Constantine Mitsotakis. He was then appointed General Musical Director of the Symphony Orchestra and Chorus of Hellenic Radio and Television for another two years.Theodorakis has always combined an exceptional artistic talent with a deep love of his country. He is also committed to heightening international awareness of human rights, of environmental issues, and of the need for peace. It was for this reason that he initiated, together with the renowned Turkish musician and singer Zülfü Livaneli, the Greek&ndash;Turkish Friendship Society. Theodorakis is Doctor honoris causa of several universities, including Montreal, Thessaloniki, and Crete, and was nominated for the Nobel Prize for Peace in 2000. Currently he lives in retirement, publishing on music, culture, and politics. But on important occasions he never hesitates to take a position, as in 1999, opposing NATO's Kosovo war, and in 2003 against the Iraq War. In 2005, he was awarded the "Russian International St Andrew the First Called Prize" and the "IMC UNESCO International Music Prize".Main works after 1974Song cycles: "Ta Lyrika", "Dionysos", "Phaedra", "Beatrice in Zero Street", "Heretismi" (Greetings), "Mia Thalassa" ("A Sea Full of Music"), "Os archeos Anemos" ("Like an Ancient Wind"), "Lyrikotera" ("The More-Than-Lyric Songs"), "Lyrikotata" ("The Most Lyric Songs"), "Erimia" ("Solitude"), "Odysseia" (2006/2007)Music for the Stage: "Orestia" (dir.: Spyros Evangelatos); "Antigone" (dir.: M. Volanakis); "Medea" (dir.: Spyros Evangelatos)Film scores: "Iphigenia" (M. Cacoyannis), "The Man with the Carnation" (N. Tzimas)Oratorios: "Missa Greca", "Liturgia 2", "Requiem"Symphonic music and cantatas: Symphonies no 2, 3, 4, 7, "According to the Sadducees", "Canto Olympico", Guita Rhapsody (1996), Cello Rhapsody (1997)Operas: "Kostas Karyotakis", "Medea", "Elektra", "Antigone", "Lysistrata".A lifetime's work: synopsisSongs and song cyclesTheodorakis has written more than 1,000 songs and song-cycles, whose melodies have become part of the heritage of Greek music. "Sto Perigiali", "Kaimos", "Aprilis", "Doxa to Theo", "Sotiris Petroulas", "Lipotaktes", "Stis Nichtas to Balkoni", "Agapi mou", "Pou petaxe t'agori mou", "Anixe ligo to parathiro", "O Ipnos se tilixe", "To gelasto pedi", "Dendro to dendro", "O Andonis", "Protos o Hlios", and many other songs.His song cycles are based on poems by famous Greek authors, as well as by Lorca and Neruda: "Epitaphios", "Archipelagos", "Politia", "Epiphania", "The Hostage", "Mykres Kyklades", "Mauthausen", "Romiossini", "Sun and Time", "Songs for Andreas", "Mythology", "Night of Death", "Ta Lyrika", "The Quarters of the World", "Dionysos", "Phaedra", "Mia Thalassa", "Ta Lyrikotera", "Ta Lyrikotata", "Erimia", "Odysseia".Symphonic works1952: Piano Concerto "Helikon"1953: Symphony No 1 ("Proti Simfonia")1954&ndash;1959: 3 Orchestral Suites1958: Piano Concerto1981: Symphony No 2 ("The Song of the Earth"; text: Mikis Theodorakis) for children's choir, piano, and orchestra)1981: Symphony No 3 (texts: D. Solomos; K. Kavafis; Byzantine hymns) for soprano, choir, and orchestra1983: Symphony No 7 ("Spring-Symphony"; texts: Yannis Ritsos; Yorgos Kulukis) for four soloists, choir, and orchestra1986&ndash;87: Symphony No 4 ("Of Choirs") for soprano, mezzo, narrator, choir, and symphonic orchestra without strings1995: Rhapsody for Guitar and Orchestra1996: Rhapsody for Cello and Orchestra2008: Rhapsody for Trumpet and OrchestraChamber music1942: Sonatina for piano1945: Elegy No 1, for cello and piano1945: Elegy No 2, for violin and piano1946: To Kimitiro (The Cemetery), for string quartet1946: String Quartet No 11946: Duetto, for two violins1947: Trio, for violin, cello and piano1947: 11 Preludes, for piano1947: Sexteto, for piano, flute and string quartet1949: Study, for two violins and cello1952: Syrtos Chaniotikos, for piano and percussion1952: Sonatina No 1, for violin and piano1955: Little Suite, for piano1955: Passacaglia, for two pianos1959: Sonatina No 2, for violin and piano1989: Choros Assikikos (Galant Dances) for violoncello solo1996: Melos, for piano2007: East of the Aegean, for piano and celloCantatas and oratorios1960: "Axion Esti" (text: Odysseas Elytis)1969: "The March of the Spirit" (text: Angelos Sikelianos)1971&ndash;82: "Canto General" (text: Pablo Neruda)1981&ndash;82: "Kata Saddukaion Pathi" (Sadducean-Passion; text: Michalis Katsaros) for tenor, baritone, bass, choir, and orchestra1982: Liturgy No 2 ("To children, killed in War"); texts: Tassos Livaditis, Mikis Theodorakis) for choir1982&ndash;83: "Lorca" for voice, solo guitar, choir, and orchestra (based on "Romancero Gitan")1992: "Canto Olympico"Hymns1970: Hymn for Nasser1973: Hymn for the Socialist Movement in Venezuela1973: Hymn for the Students. dedicated to the victims of Polytechnical School in Athens (18.11.)1977: Hymn of the French Socialist Party1978: Hymn for Malta1982: Hymn of P.L.O.1991: Hymn of the Mediterranean Games1992: "Hellenism" (Greek Hymn for the opening ceremony of the Olympic Games of BarcelonaBallets1953: "Greek Carnival" (choreography: Rallou Manou)1958: "Le Feu aux Poudres" (choreography: Paul Goubé)1958: "Les Amants de Teruel" (choreography: Milko Sparembleck)1959: "Antigone" (choreography: John Cranko)1972: "Antigone in Jail" (choreography: Micha van Hoecke)1979: "Elektra" (choreography: Serge Kenten)1983: "Sept Danses Grecques" (choreography: Maurice Béjart)1987&ndash;88: "Zorba il Greco" (choreography: Lorca Massine)Operas1984&ndash;85: "Kostas Karyotakis"1988&ndash;90: "Medea"1992&ndash;93: "Elektra"1995&ndash;96: "Antigone"1999&ndash;01: "Lysistrata"Music for the stageClassical tragedies1959&ndash;60: "Phinisses" (Euripides)1960&ndash;61: "Ajax" (Sophocles)1965: "Troades" (Euripides)1966&ndash;67: "Lysistrata" (Aristophanes)1977: "Iketides" (Aeschylus)1979: "Ippies" (Aristophanes)1986&ndash;88: "Oresteia": "Agamemnon", "Choephores", "Eumenides" (Aeschylus)1987: "Ekavi" (Euripides)1990: "Antigone" (Sophocles)1992: "Prometheus Desmotis" (Aeschylus)1996: "Oedipus Tyrannos" (Sophocles)2001: "Medea" (Euripides)Modern plays1960&ndash;61: "To Tragoudi tou Nekrou Adelfou" ("Ballad of the Dead Brother"), Musical Tragedy (text: Mikis Theodorakis)1961&ndash;62: "Omorphi Poli" ("Beautiful City"), revue (Bost, Christodoulou, Christofelis, et al.)1963: "I Gitonia ton Angelon" ("The Quarter of Angels"), Music-drama (Iakovos Kabanellis)1963: "Magiki Poli" ("Enchanted City"), revue (Theodorakis, Pergialis, Katsaros)1971: "Antigoni stin Filaki" ("Antigone in Jail"), drama (Yannis Ritsos)1974: "Prodomenos Laos" ("Betrayed People"), music for the theatre (Vangelis Goufas)1975: "Echtros Laos" ("Enemy People"), drama (Iakovos Kabanellis)1975: "Christophorus Kolumbus", drama (Nikos Kazantzakis)1976: "Kapodistrias", drama (Nikos Kazantzakis)1977: "O Allos Alexandros" ("The Other Alexander"), drama (Margarita Limberaki)1979: "Papflessas", play (Spiros Melas)International theatre1961: "Enas Omiros" ("The Hostage"), drama (Brendan Behan)1963: "The Chinese Wall", drama (Max Frisch)1975: "Das Sauspiel", tragicomedy (Martin Walser)1979: "Caligula", drama (Albert Camus)1978: "Polites B' Katigorias" ("Second-Class Citizens"), drama (Brian Friel)1980: "Perikles", tragedy, (William Shakespeare)1994: "Macbeth", tragedy (William Shakespeare)Principal film scores1960: "Ill Met by Moonlight"1960: "Honeymoon" (Luna de miel=1960: "Faces in the Dark"1961: "The Shadow of the Cat"1961: "Phaedra"1961&ndash;62: "Les Amants de Téruel"1961&ndash;62: "Five Miles to Midnight"1961&ndash;62: "Electra"1964: "Zorba the Greek"1967: "The Day the Fish came out"1969: "Z"1972: "State of Siege"1973: "Serpico"1974: "The Rehearsal"1976: "Actas de Marousia"1977&ndash;78 "Iphigenia"1980: "The Man with the Carnation"Reference: Guy Wagner. Chairman of the International Theodorakis Foundation FILIKI. List of works based on the research of Asteris Koutoulas.Political views'' The following parts of the Theodorakis-Page are not from the author of the article above. So the lack of citations for the following comments doesn't depend on him.''Theodorakis was well known for his left-wing views, which he has expressed openly (including, notably, during the junta dictatorship). He has campaigned for numerous human rights and peace causes, such as in the Cyprus dispute, the tensions between Turkey and Greece due to the Aegean dispute, NATO attacks against Yugoslavia, the kidnapping and treatment of Abdullah Öcalan, or the Israeli-Palestinian conflict He has, however turned into more right-wing ethnicist and conservative ideologies during the last decade.On JewsOn November 11th 2003, Mikis Theodorakis held a press conference to present his new book "Pou Na Vro Tin Psychi Mou" (Where can I find my soul?). After the conference, Theodorakis, in a private exchange of views, said that Greeks and Jews "are two peoples without kin, but they (the Jews) had fanaticism and self-knowledge and managed to prevail. "We, the Greeks, are very calm and did not turn aggressive like them is because we have more history. They (the Jews) only have Abraham and Jacob, who were shadows, while we have Pericles. Imagine what would happen in Greece if we were as aggressive as the Jews." Theodorakis added "Today it is possible to say that this small nation is at the root of evil. It is full of self-importance and evil stubbornness.".His comments caused uproar in Israel and among Jews in Greece, prompting complaints from the Israeli embassy in Athens to the Greek Government. Israel's Foreign Ministry issued a public protest: "The Israeli public is utterly repulsed by Theodorakis's anti-Semitic comments." The statement expressed regret that the comments were spoken by someone of Theodorakis's stature. "We do not believe that the comments reflect the position of the Greek government, and therefore expect Greek leadership and cultural figures to denounce them".Following a public outcry, Theodorakis published the following official statement:"My opinion of the Israeli people, as on all things, has always been known and I am frankly at a loss as to why such a great commotion was made this time, as if it was heard for the first time. Maybe some people judged this to be the right time to launch an attack on me. I was always on the side of the weak, of those struggling for the Justice of People. And among them were the Israeli People. I sang their suffering as well as I could. I was always in favor of the peaceful coexistence of peoples. And I showed this in practice, when, among other things, I undertook a mediatory role between Alon and Arafat in the incidents of 1972. But, precisely for these reasons, I am totally opposed to Sharon's policy and I have stressed this repeatedly, just as I have repeatedly condemned the role of prominent American Jewish politicians, intellectuals and theorists in the shaping of today's aggressive Bush "policy". Only through a conscious effort can anyone confuse the Israeli People, for whom I have shown my respect and wonder in practice and these negative phenomena which are what truly blacken the image of Israel and play a genuine "anti-Semitic" role. It is these which are on the side of Evil, the root of Evil, as I stated recently."Personally, I am happy because I know that there are many Israelis all over the world and within Israel who agree with me and are striving for the true Justice of their People and can coexist with the Justice of other People as well, who are struggling for Peace in their region and the whole world. I am happy that we have been together in these joint struggles for decades now. And I know that they know me well through these struggles and they are not waiting for the mud of some in order to get to know me."But perhaps this is the aim of those who suddenly "discovered" my ideas and slander me as an alleged "anti-Semite."Athens, 12 November 2003For all details: Official Web SiteDuring an interview for Ha'aretz, August 2004 (see external link), Ari Shavit asked about this and Theodorakis answered thus:"I must clarify, I didn't say that Jews are the root of evil. I said that they are at the root of evil. Jews want to feel that they are victims. They want to console themselves by saying: We are in the right, we are victims again, let's build another ghetto. This is a masochistic reaction. There is a masochistic mentality in Jewish tradition. I am sure that when Jews of the diaspora speak amongst themselves, they feel satisfaction. They think - now, when we are so close to the world's biggest nation, no one can harm us. We can do whatever we like. This is why their claim about renewing antisemitism is not only sick. It is devious. It allows the Jews to do whatever they will. It serves as an excuse politically as well as psychologically. (...) There is no antisemitism in Europe today."Later in the interview Theodorakis says that the force behind the existence of the Jews is "Your feeling that you are the children of god. That you are a chosen people." Shavit then asks, do the Jews appear patronizing and aggressive to you? Do they control the music establishment, global economy, mass media, America's foreign policy? To each of these questions Theodorakis replies individually with a "Yes". When asked if, by his account, the great nation of America is actually ruled by Jews, Theodorakis says "Yes".Ari Shavit asked: So today's globalized capitalism is controlled very much by the Jews? and Theodorakis answered:"Since we speak frankly, I will tell you something else. The Jewish people control most of the big symphonic orchestras in the world. When I wrote the Palestinian national anthem, the Boston Symphony was planning a production of my work. It is controlled by Jewish people. They didn't allow the concert to go on. Since then I cannot work with any great orchestra. They refuse me." "Wherever there are Jews. Wherever there are orchestras controlled by Jewish people, they boycott my work."On 9/11In an article in Eleftherotypia (14 April 2002):September 11 was characterized by an incredibly high degree of organization and technological means&mdash;higher I'd say than that possessed by the current superpower, the US.... As far as physical perpetrators are concerned there is still no tangible evidence and that's why no arrests have been made. There were only moral perpetrators, who have been sought in Afghanistan&mdash;but it would be hard to convince anyone of their level of technological and organizational capabilities.On ReligionOn 29 March 2007 (www.in.gr), he stated: "We have two great institutions in Greece. The President of the Democracy and the Head of the Greek Orthodox Church. I rebel when I see that there are people who do not respect these institutions. When you talk about the President or the Archbishop you should wash your mouth first." And, later on: "We must have roots. We must be proud of our generation, of our nation. Of the exquisite marriage of hellenism with the essence of Christianity. All these people don't know what Greek Orthodox means. They say that the Secret School (Kryfo Scholeio) never existed. But in the churches the priests read the Gospels, which were written in Greek."On German Music"Germany never had great composers, ...except these 20-30 composers of classical music": Interview on Greek TV (NET) with Nassos Athanassiou.Controversy with the Greek Ministry of CultureOn November 2006, the decision of the Greek Ministry of Culture to cut the funding for most of Theodorakis' 17 upcoming concerts at the Benaki Museum provoked the composer's angry reaction. In a public statement, Theodorakis criticized the government for its decision, announced his decision to withdraw his concerts from Ministry's funding. Moreover, the composer declared that "during the last years, in our country, there is a dominant negative environment in all sectors of our national life, which day by day becomes worse" and he added that his aim was always to "show the essence of Greekness (of being Greek)" as a tool of resistance against globalization. Theodorakis' statement provoked both supportNikolaos Mottas, About Mikis Theodorakis. The disgracefulness of the State, Makedonia Newspaper (Greek). and criticism towards his expressed opinion, within the Greek media.See alsoZorbasZorba the GreekEimaste dyo, eimaste treis, eimaste xilioi dekatreis!The Train Leaves At 8References BibliographyJean Boivin, 'Messiaen's Teaching at the Paris Conservatoire: A Humanist Legacy', in Siglind Bruhn, Messiaen's Language of Mystical Love (New York, Garland, 1998), 5-31: 10George Giannaris: Mikis Theodorakis. Music and Social Change, Foreword by Mikis Theodorakis. G. Allen, London, 1972Gail Holst: Myth & Politics in Modern Greek Music, Adolf M. Hakkert, Amsterdam, 1980Mikis Theodorakis: Journals of Resistance. Translated from the French by Graham Webb, Hart-Davis MacGibbon, London, 1973Mikis Theodorakis: Music and Theater, Translated by George Giannaris, Athens, 1983George Logothetis: Mikis Theodorakis: the Greek soul, translated from the Greek by Phillipos Chatzopoulos, Agyra editions 2004.External linksOfficial Web SiteEdition RomanosOrchestra Mikis TheodorakisLilian Voudouri Library Ha'aretz August 2004 InterviewAlexia - Mikis Theodorakis MySpace pageBibliography - His own published written worksIn Greek by Theodorakis http://www.protoporia.gr/protoporia/author.asp?author_id=917183Μελοποιημένη Ποίηση Ι ΤραγούδιαΜελοποιημένη ποίηση ΙΙΟι δρόμοι του αρχαγγέλου VΟι δρόμοι του αρχαγγέλου ΙΙΙΟι δρόμοι του αρχάγγελου IVΟι δρόμοι του αρχάγγελου ΙΟι δρόμοι του αρχαγγέλου ΙΙΜελοποιημένη ποίηση ΙΙΙΓια την ελληνική μουσικήΖητείται αριστερά20 τραγούδια για πιάνο και αρμόνιοΝα μαγευτώ και να μεθύσωΑνατομία της μουσικήςΠού να βρω την ψυχή μου... A'The best of M. TheodorakisΑντιμανιφέστοΠού πάμε;Το τραγούδι του νεκρού αδελφούΟ κύκλοςΗ Βεατρίκη στην οδό ΜηδένΜια θάλασσα γεμάτη μουσικήΜπαλάντεςΠού να βρω την ψυχή μου... Β'ΧαιρετισμοίLes EluardΤα λυρικώτεραΤα λυρικώταταΤα πρόσωπα του ΉλιουΦαίδραΛιποτάκτεςΘαλασσινά φεγγάριαΑσίκικο πουλάκηRomancero Gitano (για πιάνο - φωνή)Τα ΛυρικάΤαξίδι μέσα στη νύχταΜικρές ΚυκλάδεςΔιόνυσοςΕπιφάνιαΠνευματικό ΕμβατήριοΕπιτάφιοςΠνευματικό Εμβατήριο (Δεμένο) (Oratorio Full Score)Αξιον Εστί (Δεμένο) (Oratorio Full Score)Ζορμπάς (Δεμένο) (Suite - Ballet Full Score)Καρναβάλι (Δεμένο) (Suite - Ballet Full Score)Adagio (Full Score) - Sinfonietta (Full Score) (Δεμένο)Επιφάνια Αβέρωφ (Cantata) (δεμ.)Canto Olympico (Oratorio) (Δεμένο)Adagio. SinfoniettaZorbas. Suite-Ballet: Full scoreΛιποτάκτεςΜπαλάντες. Κύκλος τραγουδιών για πιάνο και φωνήΠνευματικό εμβατήριο. ΟρατόριοΧαιρετισμοί. Κύκλος τραγουδιών για πιάνο και φωνήΤο μανιφέστο των ΛαμπράκηδωνΤα λυρικώταταΤα λυρικώτεραΤα πρόσωπα του ήλιουΔημοκρατική και συγκεντρωτική αριστεράΟι μνηστήρες της ΠηνελόπηςΠερί τέχνηςΠου να βρω την ψυχή μου... Γ'Ραψωδία για βιολοντσέλο και ορχήστραΕπιφάνια ΑβέρωφΈνα όμηρος - Εικαστικά εξώφυλλα δίσκωνΌπως στον ΠινόκιοI had three livesΜάνου Χατζιδάκι εγκώμιονThe Gates of Eden Category:20th century classical composers Category:21st century classical composers Category:Greek classical musicians Category:Greek composers Category:Greek film score composers Category:Opera composers Category:Picasso Medalists Category:People from the North Aegean Category:People from Chios Category:Living people Category:1925 birthsar:ميكيس ثيودوراكيس ca:Mikis Theodorakis da:Mikis Theodorakis de:Mikis Theodorakis el:Μίκης Θεοδωράκης es:Mikis Theodorakis fr:Míkis Theodorákis hr:Mikis Theodorakis id:Mikis Theodorakis it:Mikis Theodorakis he:מיקיס תאודוראקיס lb:Mikis Theodorakis nl:Mikis Theodorakis ja:ミキス・テオドラキス no:Mikis Theodorakis pl:Mikis Theodorakis pt:Míkis Theodorákis ru:Теодоракис, Микис sr:Микис Теодоракис fi:Mikis Theodorakis sv:Mikis Theodorakis tr:Mikis Theodorakis