    The FV 4201 Chieftain was the main battle tank of the United Kingdom during the 1960s and 1970s. It was one of the most advanced tanks of its era, and at the time of its introduction in 1966 had the most powerful main gun and heaviest armour of any tank in the world Richard M. Ogorkiewicz, Jane's - The Technology of Tanks, Jane's Information Group, p.69. The Chieftain also introduced a supine (lying backwards) driver position, enabling a heavily sloped and reduced height hull.OverviewThe Chieftain was a radical evolutionary development of the successful Centurion line of tanks that had emerged near the end of the Second World War. The British had learned during the war that their tanks often lacked sufficient protection and firepower compared to those fielded by the enemy, and that this had led to high casualty levels when faced with the superior German tanks in World War II.Leyland, who had been involved in Centurion, had built their own prototypes of a new tank design in 1956, and these led to a War Office specification for a new tank. The design was accepted in the early 1960s. Chieftain was designed to be as well protected as possible and to be equipped with a powerful 120 mm rifled cannon. The heavy armour came at the price of reduced mobility, chiefly due to engine power limitations, which was perhaps the Chieftain's main drawback. The engine selected took the multi-fuel route and as introduced gave less than the planned output; improvements to the engine did not increase power to the desired value.DesignThe Chieftain design included a heavily sloped hull and turret. It had a mantleless turret, in order to take full advantage of reclining the vehicle up to ten degrees in a hull-down position. The driver lay semi-recumbent in the hull when his hatch was closed down which helped to reduce overall height. To the left side of the turret was a large infra-red searchlight in an armoured housing. The suspension was of the Horstmann bogie type, with large sideplates to protect the tracks and provide stand-off protection from hollow charge attack.The engine is a two-stroke opposed piston design intended for multi-fuel use so it could run on petrol or diesel or anything in between. In practice the engine did not deliver the expected power, and was unreliable but improvements were introduced to address this. Primary problems included, cylinder liner failure, fan drive problems and perpetual leaks due to vibration and badly routed pipework. However, as the engine power improved the tank itself became heavier. The tank was steered by conventional tillers hydraulically actuating onto external brake discs. The discs worked via the epicyclic gearbox providing 'regenerative' steering. In reality the discs and pads became soaked in oil and diesel and the steering became difficult. The gearbox was operated motorcycle-style with a kick up/kick down "peg" on the left which actuated electro-hydraulic units in the gearbox.The accelerator is cable operated by the right foot. In the turret the loader was on the left and the gunner on the right of the gun with the commander behind the gunner.The main 120 mm gun was innovative, as it burnt away the cartridge, leaving nothing to be discarded. Other tank guns had to store the spent shell cartridge or eject them outside. It was said that the tank was built around this gun.ServiceLike its European competitors, the Chieftain found a large export market in the Middle East, but unlike the earlier Centurion, it was not adopted by any other NATO or Commonwealth countries.The Chieftain proved itself capable in combat and able to be upgraded with enhancements both for overall improvement and to meet local requirements. The Chieftain tanks were continuously upgraded until the early 1990s when they were replaced by the Challenger series of tanks whose design was influenced by that of Chieftain. The final Chieftain version used by the British Army until 1995, incorporated "Stillbrew" armour named after Colonel Still and John Brewer from the Military Vehicles and Engineering Establishment (MVEE), the Improved Fire Control System (IFCS) and the Thermal Observation Gunnery Sight (TOGS).The first Chieftain model was introduced in 1967. Chieftains were supplied to at least six countries, including Iran, Kuwait, Oman and Jordan. An agreement for sale of Chieftains to Israel was cancelled by the British Government in 1969 BBC NEWS | World | Middle East | Files reveal British-Israel tank secrets&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;. The largest foreign sale was to Iran, which took delivery of around 1,000 "Mk5(P)" before the 1979 revolution. Further planned deliveries of the more capable 4030 series were cancelled at that point. The tank's main combat experience was in the Iran–Iraq War of 1980-88.SpecificationsCrew: 4Combat Weight: 55 tonsOverall Length: 10.8 m (gun forward)Hull Length: 7.5 mHeight: 2.9 mWidth: 3.5 mPowerplant: Leyland L60 (diesel) 695 hpRange: 500kmMax Road Speed: 48 km/hCross-Country Speed: 30 km/hArmour: turret front, 195 mm RHA (60°)Armament120 mm L11A5 rifled tank gunRate of fire: 8 rounds per minuteElevation: -10 to +20 degreeLaser rangefinderCoaxial L8A1 7.62 mm machine gunCupola-mounted L37A1 7.62mm machine gunMark 1 and Mark 2 models had coaxial .50 cal. ranging machine guns prior to the introduction of the laser rangefinder.EquipmentTwin Clansman VRC 353 VHF Radio sets1 C42 1 B47 Larkspur VHF radios2 X 6-barrel smoke dischargers on turretBulldozer blade (optional - fitted to one tank per squadron)VariantsChieftain Mk 140 training vehicles for 1965/1966.Chieftain Mk 2First service model with 650 hp engine.Chieftain Mk 3Extra equipment fitted giving rise to several submarks.Chieftain Mk.5Final production variant, with upgrades to the powerplant and NBC protection system.Chieftain Mk.6-9Incremental upgrades to earlier Marks of tanks, including addition of Clansman radios.Chieftain Mk.10Mark 9 upgrade, addition of Stillbrew Crew Protection Package to the turret front and turret ring.Chieftain Mk.11Mark 10 upgrade, searchlight replaced with the Thermal Observation and Gunnery System (TOGS), manufactured by Barr and Stroud.Chieftain Mk.12/13Proposed further upgrades, cancelled when the Challenger 2 was introduced.FV4205 AVLB: Bridge-laying vehicle.FV4204 ARV/ARRVArmoured Recovery Vehicle, Armoured Recovery and Repair Vehicle.Chieftain Marksman: SPAAG version, equipped with the Marksman turret.Chieftain MineclearerMine-clearing development.Chieftain SabreTwin 30 mm AA turret.Khalid (also designated 4030P2J - P = Phase & J = Jordan)/Shir 1Jordanian / Iranian variant with running gear of the Challenger 1. Basically this was a transition vehicle from the Chieftain to the Shir2 which had been intended for Iran but was subsequently cancelled. The Shir2 tanks became Challenger1 tanks after reworking at ROF Leeds. The vehicle chassis comprised the front half of a Chieftain Hull and the rear of a 4030/2 Chassis. This allowed the fitment in the engine bay of a Rolls CV12 engine.Weapon CarriersThe Chieftain chassis was modified to mount air defence weapons ("Marksman" 2 x 35 mm cannon) and a 155 mm howitzer in various modifications.Shir 2Iranian variant. Visible external differences from the Chieftain Mk5 included a sloping rear hull, Removal of the Searchlight from the left turret area and storage baskets refitted, water channel removed from around drivers hatch on the glacis plate, modified light clusters also on the glacis plate, Larger sight housing on commanders cupola.Operators British Army - used from 1965 to 1995 - ~1,000 Chieftain Mark 5(P) obtained before the 1979 revolution. Further planned deliveries of the more capable 4030 series were cancelled at that point. 100 as of 2005. (100 in 1990, 250 in 1995, 140 in 2000, 200 in 2002).globasecurity.org Iranian Ground Forces Equipment - 30 in service with Iraqi Regular Army in 1990. All destroyed or scrapped. - An agreement for sale of Chieftains to Israel was cancelled by the British Government in 1969. - ? - 20 in 1995, 17 in storage in 2000.globalsecurity.org Kuwait Army Equipment - ?ReferencesExternal linksFAS.orgCategory:Tanks of the United Kingdom Category:Main battle tanks Category:Tanks of the Cold Warca:Chieftain de:Chieftain es:Chieftain fr:Chieftain ko:치프틴 전차 it:Chieftain (carro armato) he:צ'יפטיין hu:Chieftain nl:Chieftain ja:チーフテン (戦車) no:Chieftain pl:Chieftain ru:Чифтен sk:Chieftain fi:Chieftain