   | | Cusco (also spelled Cuzco, and in the local Quechua language as Qusqu ) is a city in southeastern Peru, near the Urubamba Valley (Sacred Valley) of the Andes mountain range. It is the capital of the Cusco Region as well as the Cusco Province. The city has a population of 348,935 which is triple the figure of 20 years ago. Located on the eastern end of the Knot of Cusco, its altitude is around 3,300 m (10,800 ft). Cusco is the historic capital of the Inca Empire.==Names== Upon the arrival of the Spanish conquistadors, the Quechua name ("Qosqo") was transliterated into Spanish as "Cu's'co", which is how it appears on maps from the 17th and 18th centuries.Ianssonium, Ioannem (1647) Mapa del Perú, image in Wikipedia CommonsBellin, Jacques Nicolas (1758) Suite du Perou Audience de Charcas Paris, France, image in Wikipedia Commons; On maps from the 19th century (as early as 1810Pinkerton, John (1810) "Peru" World Atlas Cadell and Davies, London, image in the David Rumsey Map Collection;Carey, Mathew (1814) "Peru" World Atlas Mathew Carey, Philadelphia, image in the David Rumsey Map Collection;) and through the mid-20th century (until at least 1976), the name appears as "Cu'z'co". Today, in official Peruvian cartography (in Spanish) the name has returned to the original transliteration: Cusco, with an S rather than a Z.In English, both Shttp://www.peru.info/e_ftociudadeseng.asp?ids=1290&amp;ic=2&amp;pdr=651&amp;jrq=3.7https://www.cia.gov/library/publications/the-world-factbook/geos/pe.html and Zhttp://whc.unesco.org/en/list/273http://www.lonelyplanet.com/worldguide/peru/cuzco/ are accepted, as there is no "official" spelling of words in English Both British and American variants use S or Z. The Encyclopaedia Britannica writes "Cuzco".HistoryKillke cultureThe Killke occupied the region from 900 to 1200 A.D., prior to the arrival of the Incas in the 1200s. Archaeologists discovered, on March 13 2008, the ruins of an ancient temple, roadway and irrigation systems at Sacsayhuaman, a famed fortress overlooking the Inca capital of Cuzco. Previous carbon-14 dating of Sacsayhuaman revealed that the Killke culture constructed the fortress in the 1100s.Pre-Inca temple uncovered in Peru - CNN.com&lt;!--Bot-generated title--&gt; In 2007, excavations uncovered another temple on the edge of the fortress, indicating religious as well as military use of the facility.NEWS - Comcast.net&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Inca historyCusco was the capital of the Inca Empire (1200s-1532). Many believe that the city was planned to be shaped like a puma. The city had two sectors: the urin and hanan, which were further divided to each encompass two of the four provinces, Chinchasuyu (NW), Antisuyu (NE), Qontisuyu (SW) and Collasuyu (SE). A road led from each of these quarters to the corresponding quarter of the empire. Each local leader was required to build a house in the city and live part of the year in Cusco, but only in the quarter of Cusco that corresponded to the quarter of the empire in which he had territory. After Pachacuti, when an Inca died his title went to one son and his property was given to a corporation controlled by his other relatives (a process called split inheritance), so each title holder had to build a new house and add new lands to the empire, in order to own the land his family needed to maintain after his death.According to Inca legend, the city was built by Sapa Inca Pachacuti, the man who transformed the Kingdom of Cusco from a sleepy city-state into the vast empire of Tahuantinsuyu. But archaeological evidence points to a slower, more organic growth of the city beginning before Pachacuti. There was however a city plan, and two rivers were channeled around the city.The city fell to the sphere of Huáscar in the division of the empire after the death of Huayna Capac in 1527. It was captured by the generals of Atahualpa in April 1532 in the Battle of Quipaipan, and nineteen months later by the Spaniards (see battle of Cuzco).Post-Columbian Cusco The first Spaniards arrived in the city on November 15 1533. Spanish conquistador Francisco Pizarro officially discovered Cusco on March 23 1534, naming it the "Very noble and great city of Cusco". The many buildings constructed after the Spanish conquest are of Spanish influence with a mix of Inca architecture, including the Santa Clara and San Blas barrios. The Spanish undertook the construction of a new city on the foundations of the old Inca city, replacing temples with churches and palaces with mansions for the conquerors. During the colony, Cusco was very prosperous thanks to the agriculture, cattle raising, mining as well as the trade with Spain. This allowed the construction of many churches and convents, and even a cathedral, university and Archbishopric. Often, Spanish buildings were juxtaposed atop the massive stone walls built by the Inca.A major earthquake in 1950 badly destroyed the Dominican Priory and Church of Santo Domingo, which were built on top of the impressive Coricancha (Temple of the Sun). The city's Inca architecture, however, withstood the earthquake. Many of the old Inca walls were thought to have been lost after the earthquake, but the granite walls of the Coricancha were exposed, as well as many walls throughout the city. While some wanted to restore the buildings to their colonial splendor, a contingent of Cusco citizens urged city officials to retain the exposed walls. Eventually they won out. Cusco was also hit by a major earthquake in 1650.Sightslies on the left and the Jesuit church ("Compañía de Jesus") is on the right.]] The original Inca city, said to have been founded in the 11th century, was sacked by Pizarro in 1535. There are still remains, however, of the palace of the Incas, the Temple of the Sun and the Temple of the Virgins of the Sun. There are still Inca building remains and foundations, which in some cases have proved to be stronger than the foundations built in present-day Peru. Among the most noteworthy buildings of the city is the cathedra of Santo Domingo.The major nearby Inca sites are Pachacuti's presumed winter home, Machu Picchu, which can be reached on foot by a Inca trail or by train; the "fortress" at Ollantaytambo; and the "fortress" of Sacsayhuaman.Other less-visited ruins include: Inca Wasi, the highest of all Inca sites at 3,980 m (13,134 ft); Old Vilcabamba the capital of the Inca after the capture of Cusco; the sculpture garden at Chulquipalta (aka Chuquipalta, Ñusta España, The White Rock, Yurak Rumi); as well as Huillca Raccay, Patallacta, Choquequirao, Moray and many others.The surrounding area, located in the Huatanay Valley, is strong in agriculture, including corn, barley, quinoa, tea and coffee and gold mining.Thanks to remodelling, Cusco's main stadium, Estadio Garcilaso de la Vega, attracted many more tourists during South America's continental soccer championship, the Copa América 2004 held in Peru. The stadium is home to one of the country's most successful soccer clubs, Cienciano. Cusco's local team has made a name for itself in the world of club soccer, as it has won several international competitions in South America, although it has yet to achieve such success in its home country. Nonetheless, it is still considered to be one of the best teams in Peru. The team is strongly supported throughout Cusco; men without a set at home will stand in the street and watch the game on televisions in shop windows. Tickets are sought-after and buying them entails long queueing.The city is served by Alejandro Velasco Astete International Airport. ClimateCusco was found in 2006 to be the spot on Earth with the highest ultraviolet light level.[http://www.niwascience.co.nz/rc/atmos/uvconference/2006/Liley_2.pdf Liley, J. Ben and McKenzie, Richard L. (April 2006) "Where on Earth has the highest UV?" UV Radiation and its Effects: an update NIWA Science, Hamilton, NZ];FoodAs headquarters to the Inca Empire, Cusco was an important agricultural region and a natural reserve for thousands of native Peruvian species, including hundreds of potato varieties.More recently, thanks to Peruvian and foreign cooks, Cusco has begun to offer many fusion and neo-Andean restaurants in which the cuisine, prepared with modern techniques and incorporating a blend of traditional Andean and international ingredients, delivers an innovative, exciting dining experience.Guide to Peruvian Food, Cusco Reference. Cusco is one of the Andean cities in which visitors can taste many spices, of different origins, and agricultural produce, mostly organic, treated and grown in environmental friendly and traditional ways, frequently using ancient techniques such as the "Chaquitaclla" (foot plough).chaquitaclla - Britannica Online Encyclopedia&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;.IndustryCusqueña brewerySister citiesGallery Image:Cusco-plaza-c04.jpg|Plaza de Armas Image:Gwalpaca.jpg|A girl with her Alpaca Image:Inca_Wall.jpg|Inca Wall Image:Piedra_de_12_angulos.jpg|Twelve-angle rock Image:Cuzco001.jpg |Plaza de Armas Image:Iglesia-La-Compania---Cuzco.jpg|The Church of La Compañia on the Plaza de Armas Image:CristoBlancoCuzco.jpg|Cristo Blanco In modern cultureIn the children's movie The Emperor's New Groove and its spin-off animated television series The Emperor's New School, the main protagonist's name "Kuzco" is a parody of the city of Cusco. Kuzco is the young, often churlish fictional emperor of the Incas.References See http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Footnotes for an explanation of how to generate footnotes using the and  tags, and the template below. -- See alsoInca road systemCoricanchaExternal linksPromPerú: Government Tourism SiteCusco at Google MapsCusco GPS mapTravel guideTourist guide at WikitravelPhotos photographs of Cusco and the Sacred ValleyPhotos Sacsayhuaman at Pasaporteblog.com  Category:Cities, towns and villages in the Cusco Region Category:Archaeological sites in Peru Category:World Heritage Sites in Peruar:قوسقو ay:Qusqu bg:Куско ca:Cusco cs:Cuzco da:Cusco de:Cusco el:Κούζκο es:Cuzco eo:Kusko fa:کوسکو fr:Cuzco ko:쿠스코 hr:Cusco id:Cusco it:Cusco he:קוסקו la:Cuscum lt:Kuskas lij:Cusco hu:Cuzco nah:Cuzco nl:Cuzco (stad) ja:クスコ no:Cuzco nn:Cuzco oc:Cusco pl:Cuzco pt:Cusco ro:Cuzco qu:Qusqu ru:Куско simple:Cusco sk:Cusco (mesto) sl:Cusco sr:Куско fi:Cusco sv:Cusco th:กุสโก tr:Cusco uk:Куско vo:Cusco zh:庫斯科