 300px]]|partof=the American Revolutionary War|Princeton]], New Jersey|result=Decisive American victory22px]] United States22px]] Great Britainstrength1=4,50035 gunsFischer p.404strength2=1,2006-8 gunsFischer p.404casualties1=31 Killed  40 Wounded  1 Captured Washington's crossing By David Hackett Fischer pg 415casualties2=100 Killed  70 Wounded  280 Captured The Battles of Trenton and Princeton by William S. Stryker pg 308-309 |- | |The Battle of Princeton (January 3, 1777) was a victory for General Washington's revolutionary forces over British forces near Princeton, New Jersey. The site is administered as a state park operated and maintained by the New Jersey Division of Parks and Forestry.BackgroundIn the night after the Second Battle of Trenton, General Washington led the roughly 6,000 man main body of his army stealthily away from Lieutenant General Charles Cornwallis and his troops. Washington left a small detachment of 500 Pennsylvania militia behind to tend to large campfires and periodically fire volleys from two cannon, to disguise the departure of the American soldiers.Throughout the night, the army marched over a back road toward Princeton and reached the Quaker Bridge over Stony Brook, about a mile and a half south of town. The Quaker Bridge was not strong enough to support the army’s cannon and ammunition carts, so another bridge had to be built fastly. While the bridge was being constructed, Washington reformed his army, and then split it into two parts&mdash;the smaller left wing under General Nathanael Greene and the larger right wing under General John Sullivan. Washington had intended to attack Princeton before dawn, but the sun was rising.Greene’s assignment was to advance to the Princeton-Trenton highway to stop its traffic and ruin its bridge over Stony Brook. Sullivan’s division, the main attack force, moved toward the rear of the College of New Jersey (now Princeton University). The British were known to have outposts on the roads to the north, east and west, but an abandoned road went into town from the east, which Sullivan took.Before Greene’s wing (with 2,300 men) reached the highway, the leading brigade, 350 men under General Hugh Mercer of Virginia, met up with 800 men who were part of the British 4th Brigade, accompanied by 2 light guns, under the overall command of Lieutenant Colonel Charles Mawhood. The British group was marching from Princeton to Trenton to reinforce General Leslie's 2nd Brigade. The last unit of the 4th Brigade was left to hold Princeton with another 400 men.The BattleUpon seeing the American force, Mawhood formed up his men across the edge of an orchard, in a defensive position, which Mercer's troops were passing through. A violent firefight developed, and Mawhood launched an assault which largely cleared the orchard of Mercer's troops, who began to retreat in confusion. General Mercer was wounded but refused to surrender. When he tried to attack the enemy with his sword, he was bayoneted until presumed dead; he died nine days later. Colonel John Haslet of Delaware replaced General Mercer and was killed by a shot to the head.  During this confusion, General Washington rode up to rally Mercer's men, while a fresh brigade of 2,100 troops under General John Cadwalader arrived with an artillery battery.  Washington then rode straight into the British fire, personally leading the attack. As Washington charged towards the British lines, he was heard yelling "Parade with me my brave fellows, we will have them soon!"The character of George Washington | USA Today (Society for the Advancement of Education) | Find Articles at BNET.com&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; Legend has it, that Washington was obscured by smoke, but when it cleared, he was still there.Patriot ResourceWith these reinforcements, and Washington having successfully rallied Mercer's men, the larger American force was able to attack the British flanks and retake most of the orchard, until fire from Mawhood's guns halted the American advance.A second British assault cleared the orchard, and seemed about to win the day until Sullivan led up another 1,300 troops. Now outnumbered nearly 6 to 1, Mawhood led a final charge to break through American lines. A number of the British soldiers broke through the Americans in a desperate bayonet charge, continuing down the road to Trenton. Washington led some of his force in pursuit of Mawhood, but they abandoned this and turned back when some of Leslie's troops came into sight. The remainder of the British fell back into Princeton, which, along with the men already there, they defended against Sullivan's force for a while, before retreating to New Brunswick. A number of troops were left behind in Princeton. Facing overwhelming numbers and artillery fire, they surrendered. The British casualty list stated 86 killed and wounded and 200 captured. The Americans suffered 40 killed and wounded.In Trenton, Cornwallis and his men awoke to the sounds of cannon fire coming from behind their position. Cornwallis and his army began to race to Princeton. However, Washington's rear guard had managed to damage the bridge over the Stony Brook, and American snipers further delayed Cornwallis' Army. The exhausted American Army slipped away, marching to Somerset County Courthouse (now Millstone), where they spent the night. When the main British force finally reached Princeton late in the day, they did not remain but continued in haste toward New Brunswick, New Jersey.Aftermathin Princeton Borough, NJ]] After the battle, Cornwallis abandoned many of his posts in New Jersey, and ordered his army to retreat to New Brunswick. The battle at Princeton cost the British some 276 men killed, wounded or captured and greatly boosted the morale of the Continental troops, leading 8,000 new recruits to join the Continental Army.American historians often consider it a great victory on par with the battle of Trenton, due to the subsequent loss of control of most of New Jersey by the Crown forces as well as the important political implications of the battle across the Atlantic in France and Spain, both of which would expand their military aid to the Continental forces after the battle. Fredrick the Great is said to have pronounced Washington's achieviments in those few weeks, the most brilliant in military history. Elson (1905) pg.64The site of the battlefield is south of Princeton and has become the Princeton Battlefield State Park. The wounded and dying General Mercer reportedly rested under an oak tree on the battlefield. The surrounding Mercer County, New Jersey is now named for him]] and a picture of the Mercer Oak is on its seal. The old tree finally died in 2000 and a replacement grown from its acorns was planted on the site.The 3rd Battalion/112th Field Artillery Regiment claims lineage from the Eastern Artillery Company of New Jersey which was assigned to Thomas Procter's 4th Continental Artillery Regiment which took part in battle of Princeton..Princeton Battlefield State ParkThe State of New Jersey preserves 100 acres of the site as the Princeton Battlefield State Park. The park is located on Mercer Road (Princeton Pike), about 1.5 miles south of Princeton University and 3.8 miles north of Interstate 295/95.ReferencesFisher, David Hackett. Washington's Crossing. Oxford University Press USA, 2004, 576 pages. ISBN 0195170342Ketchum, Richard. The Winter Soldiers: The Battles for Trenton and Princeton. Owl Books, 1999, 448 pages. ISBN 0805060987Elson, Henry William ''History of the United States of America ''. 1905NotesSee alsoNew Jersey during the American Revolution Battle of TrentonExternal linksPrinceton Battlefield SocietyThe Battle of PrincetonBattle of PrincetonPrinceton Battlefield State Park official siteVirtual Tour of the park Princeton Category:Princeton, New Jersey Category:New Jersey state parks Category:New Jersey in the American Revolution Princeton, Battle ofde:Schlacht von Princeton es:Batalla de Princeton fr:Bataille de Princeton id:Pertempuran Princeton nl:Slag bij Princeton ja:プリンストンの戦い no:Slaget ved Princeton pl:Bitwa pod Princeton simple:Battle of Princeton zh:普林斯顿战役