 | image = Nyctalus noctula.jpg | image_width = 200px | regnum = Animalia | phylum = Chordata | classis = Mammalia | ordo = Chiroptera | familia = Vespertilionidae | genus = Nyctalus | species = N. noctula | binomial = Nyctalus noctula | binomial_authority = Schreber, 1774 The Common Noctule (Nyctalus noctula) is a species of bat common throughout Europe, Asia, and North Africa.With a length of 8 cm and a wing span of 35 cm the common noctule bat is one of the largest bat species in Western and Central Europe. When hunting, it often starts flying in the early dusk, much earlier than most other European bats. This species flight pattern is both high and fast above the tree tops of forested areas that are its preferred habitat. When roosting through the day, the noctule bat usually seeks out tree holes or even bat boxes attached to the tree trunks.Generally noctule bats live in forests, but some populations can be found in towns. There are many noctules living in Hamburg, Vienna, Brno and other some other central European cities.In addition to the typical ultrasounds the noctule bat may expel shrill cries. The function of these sounds is still unknown. Common Noctule bats mainly feed on beetles, moths and winged ants. In addition to insects, the Giant Noctule bat feeds on migrating birds. Nielson, John. &quot;Giant Bats Snatch Birds from Night Sky,&quot; NPR. April 18, 2007. Accessed May 17, 2007.In the winter, noctule bats hibernate like all bats of the temperate zones. Tree holes are not warm enough for this purpose, so the noctule bats search natural caves or man-made objects like church steeples. Sometimes the summer territories and the hibernating places are hundreds of kilometres away from each other.The common noctule bat is declining like all European bats, but the other European noctules are even rarer. The lesser noctule and the giant noctule live in forests only and never in towns.EcholocationThe Noctule uses two main call types for echolocation. The frequency parameters of the first call type lie between 26-47 kHz, have most energy at 27 kHz and have an average duration of 11.5 ms. The frequency parameters of the second call type lie between 22-33 kHz, have most energy at 22 kHz and have an average duration of 13.8 ms.ReferencesCategory:Bats Category:Fauna of Europeca:Nòctul gros da:Brunflagermus de:Großer Abendsegler es:Nyctalus noctula fr:Nyctalus noctula lt:Rudasis nakviša nl:Rosse vleermuis no:Storflaggermus pl:Borowiec wielki scn:Taddarita (nyctalus noctula) sk:Netopier hrdzavý fi:Isolepakko sv:Stor fladdermus th:ค้างคาวกินแมลงนิ้วสั้น zh-yue:褐山蝠 zh:褐山蝠