 Cannes (, in Occitan Canas) is a city in the Alpes-Maritimes department in the region of Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in southeastern France. It is one of the best-known cities of the French Riviera. It is a busy tourist destination and host of the annual Cannes Film Festival. The population was of 70,400 as of the 2007 census. Cannes is the home of numerous luxurious houses and mansions as well as many high-end gated communities. The city is also famous for its various luxury stores, fancy restaurants, and prestigious hotels.HistoryThere were civilisations in the area by the 2nd century BC. It’s believed the Oxybian tribe from Liguria created a settlement knownn as Aegitna. Historians are unsure what the name means. The area was a fishing village used as a port of call between the Lérins Islands. In 69 AD it became the scene of violent conflict between the troops of Othos and Vitellius.Cannes is also believed to have come out of the sea in 924 BC after the area was hit by a freak storm.Cannes: the nameIn the 10th century the town was known as Canua. The name may derive from "canna", a reed. Canua was probably the site of a small Ligurian port, and later a Roman outpost on Le Suquet hill, suggested by Roman tombs discovered here. Le Suquet housed an 11th-century tower which overlooked swamps where the city now stands. Most of the ancient activity, especially protection, was on the Lérin Islands and the history of Cannes is the history of the islands.The birth of the &quot;Suquet&quot;An attack by the Saracenso in 891, who remained until the end of the 10th century, devastated the country around Canua. The insecurity of the Lérin islands forced the monks to settle on the mainland, at the Suquet. Construction of a castle in 1035 fortified the city by then known as Cannes, and at the end of the 11th century construction was started on two towers on the Lérin Islands. One took a century to build, the other three.Around 1530, Cannes detached from the monks who had controlled the city for hundreds of years and became independent.The Lérins Islands (Les Îles de Lérins)During the 18th century, the Spanish and English both tried to gain control of the Lérins Islands, but were chased away by the French. The islands were later controlled by many, such as Jean-Honoré Alziary, and the Bishop of Fréjus. The islands had many different purposes; at the end of the 19th century, one was a hospital for soldiers in the Crimean War.The Belle Époque (Beautiful Era)Lord Henry Brougham and Vaux bought land at the Croix des Gardes and constructed the villa Eleonore-Louise. His work to improve living conditions attracted the English aristocracy, who also built winter residences.At the end of the 19th century, several railways were completed. This prompted the arrival of streetcars. In Cannes, projects such as the Boulevard Carnot, the rue d'Antibes and the Carlton Hotel on the Promenade de la Croisette were carried out. After the closure of the Casino des Fleurs (hôtel Gallia), a luxury establishment was built for the rich winter clientèle; the Casino Municipal next to the pier Albert-Edouard. This casino was demolished and replaced by the new Palace in 1979.Modern timesWith the 20th century came new luxury hotels such as the Miramar and the Martinez. The city was modernised with a sports centre, street cars, a post office, and schools. There were fewer British and German tourists after the First World War but more Americans. Winter tourism gave way to summer tourism and the summer casino at the Palm Beach was constructed.The city council had the idea of an international film festival shortly before World War II. The first opened on September 20, 1946, held in the Casino Municipal.WeatherThe climate is Mediterranean and the city enjoys 12 hours of sunshine per day during summer (May to September), while in winter (December to February) the weather is mild. Both seasons see a relatively low rainfall and most rain is during October and November, when 110ml falls.SummerCannes summers are long and hot, with summer daytime temperatures regularly hitting 40°C, while average temperatures are about 25°C. Temperatures remain high from June to September, the busiest time of the year. Despite the hot daytime temperatures, a Mediterranean breeze keeps summer evenings pleasant and cool.WintersTemperatures drop below 10°C for only three months of the year (December to February). The spring and autumn are also warm , although more suited to those who prefer slightly cooler weather.Cityscape  La Croisette is the waterfront avenue with palm trees. La Croisette is known for picturesque beaches and for restaurants, cafés and boutiques. La Suquet, the old town, provides a good view of La Croisette. The fortified tower and Chapel of St Anne house the Musée de la Castre. The Man in the Iron Mask was imprisoned on the Îles de Lérins.MuseumsThe Musée d'Art et d'Histoire de Provence houses artefacts from prehistoric to present, in an 18th century mansion. The Musée de la Castre has objects from the Pacific Atolls, Peruvian relics and Mayan pottery. Other venues include the Musée de la Marine, Musée de la Mer, Musée de la Photographie and Musée International de la Parfumerie.The villas of CannesNineteenth-century Cannes can still be seen in its grand villas, built to reflect the wealth and standing of their owners and inspired by anything from medieval castles to Roman villas. Lord Brougham’s Italianate Villa Eléonore Louise (one of the first in Cannes) was built between 1835 and 1839. Also known as the Quartier des Anglais, this is the oldest residential area in Cannes. Another landmark is the Villa Fiésole (known today as the Villa Domergue) designed by Jean-Gabriel Domergue in the style of Fiesole, near Florence. The villas are not open to the public. Villa Domergue may be visited on appointment.[[Île Sainte-Marguerite]] (St Marguerite Island)It took "The Man in the Iron Mask" 11 years to leave this tiny, forested island. The mysterious individual was believed to be of noble blood, but his identity has never been proven. His cell can be visited in the Fort of St Marguerite, now renamed the Musée de la Mer (Museum of the Sea). This museum also houses discoveries from shipwrecks off the island, including Roman (first century BC) and Saracen (10th century AD) ceramics.[[Île Saint-Honorat]] (St Honorat Island)Cistercian monks are the only inhabitants of the smaller, southern St Honorat Island. Monks have inhabited the island since AD410 and, at the height of their powers, owned Cannes, Mougins and Vallauris. Medieval vestiges remain in the stark church, which is open to the public, and in the ruins of the 11th-century monastery on the sea’s edge. The monks divide their time between prayer and producing red and white wines.Theatre and musicCannes is not renowned for traditional theatre. However, small venues stage productions and host short sketches during the annual International Actors’ Performance Festival. Popular theatres include the Espace Miramar and the Alexandre III.EconomyThe area around Cannes has developed into a high-tech cluster. The technopolis of Sophia Antipolis lies in the hills beyond Cannes. The Film Festival is a major event for the industry.There is an annual television festival in the last week in September. Mipim is a commercial real-estate exhibition place in March.Festivals and show eventsThe Cannes Film Festival (French: le Festival international du film de Cannes or simply le Festival de Cannes), founded in 1939, is the highlight of the city’s calendar. In May 2006, Hollywood Reporter acknowledged that Cannes is the "grandaddy of all film festivals". The private festival is held annually; usually in the month of May.Midem, a large market for disc and musicMipim, a large market concerning buildings apartments and villa for rent at www.palmedazur.com' Cannes Lions International Advertising Festival'Carnival on the Riviera is an annual parade through the streets to mark the 21-day period prior to Shrove Tuesday.The International Festival of Games is festival of bridge, belote, backgammon, chess, draughts, tarot and more (February).Festival de la Plaisance is an event for boating enthusiasts in the Vieux Port(September).The International Actors’ Performance Festival: comedy sketches and performances by fringe artistsIndustrial activitiesThe economic environment is based on tourism (business fairs), trade and aviation. Cannes has 6500 companies, of which 3000 are traders, artisans and service providers. In 2006, 421 new companies were registered.Cannes hosts the Cannes Mandelieu Space Center, headquarters of Thales Alenia Space, the first European satellite manufacturer.TransportNice Côte d’Azur AirportLocated 15 miles from Cannes, Nice Côte d’Azur Airport has close to 10 million passengers a year. Terminal 1 can handle 4.5 million passengers, Terminal 2 8.5 million. See also: Cannes - Mandelieu AirportBy carFrom Paris, the journey takes 8 hours via the A8 motorway; from Monaco and Nice, the same road provides access from the opposite direction.By railTGV rail services provide access from major French cities. Other cities with rail connections include Brussels (6 hours), Milan (5 hours), Basel (10 hours), Rome (10 hours) and Venice (10 hours).By busCoach services arrive at the Gare Routière de Nice, outside of the city. Companies from abroad include Eurolines and Agence Phoceens. Regional services are by Rapides Côte d’Azur and CTM, with services from Nice and Grasse/Mandelieu respectively.By ferry (in Nice harbour)Ferries are available in Nice harbour from Bastia and Calvi in Corsica, with services provided by SNCM Ferryterranée and Corsica Ferries. From Bastia, the journey is 4 hours, 45 minutes on conventional ferries and 3 hours, 40 minutes on express ferries, while from Calvi, conventional vessels take 3 hours, 45 minutes and express vessels take 2 hours, 45 minutes. An average of four ferries a day sail on these routes, with more during summer.Twin citiesCannes is twinned with Image:Cannes 57.jpg|The aerial view of Cannes Image:Cannes Marina.jpg|The marina at Cannes Image:Jardins de la croisette, Cannes.jpg|The Croisette gardens Image:Ile st honorat.jpg|St Honorat Island Image:Cannes Town Hall .jpg|Hôtel de Ville (The City Hall) Image:Rocks on the beach in Cannes.jpg|The rocky beaches in Cannes External links Photos fine art of CannesThe City Hall official website Cannes Film Festival official website   * Category:Communes of Alpes-Maritimesaf:Cannes ar:كان (مدينة) az:Kann bg:Кан (Южна Франция) ca:Canes ceb:Cannes cs:Cannes da:Cannes de:Cannes el:Κάννες es:Cannes eo:Cannes fa:کن (فرانسه) fr:Cannes ko:칸 (프랑스) hr:Cannes io:Cannes id:Cannes it:Cannes he:קאן ka:კანი (ქალაქი) la:Canoe (Francia) lb:Cannes hu:Cannes mr:कान, फ्रांस nl:Cannes ja:カンヌ no:Cannes nn:Cannes oc:Canas pl:Cannes pt:Cannes ro:Cannes ru:Канны (Франция) se:Cannes sq:Cannes scn:Cannes simple:Cannes sk:Cannes sl:Cannes sr:Кан (Азурна обала) sh:Cannes fi:Cannes sv:Cannes vi:Cannes tr:Cannes vo:Cannes zh:戛纳