  | Past_members = Dan BălanRadu SîrbuArsenie TodiraşPetru Jelihovschi O-Zone was a Moldovan pop music trio that gained global popularity for their song Dragostea din tei. Its members were Dan Bălan (Crazy Loop), Radu Sîrbu, and Arsenie Todiraş (also known as Arsenium).Music careerThe group was started by Dan Bălan in the year 1999 and originally consisted of Dan Bălan and Petru Jelihovschi. They released their first album, "Dar, unde eşti...", in 2000, and were a major success in Moldova. However, Dan wanted to try the Romanian market as well, and Jelihovschi didn't, so the group split up. Dan later held auditions for new singers. His voice teacher introduced him to Arsenie Todiraş, and then later he got a phone call from Radu Sîrbu, who had missed the audition. They became the new members of O-zone.They mainly sang eurodance music, and were especially famous for their hit single "Dragostea din tei", a notable summer hit from the album DiscO-Zone. Dragostea din Tei reached Number 1 on the singles charts of many European countries in 2003 and 2004, and was Number 3 in the United Kingdom. Another single called "Despre tine" from the same album had similar success across Europe.Compared to its multi-platinum status in Europe, O-Zone never entered the charts in the United States. With the advent of the Numa Numa Dance, "Dragostea din tei" had a burst of popularity in the United States, but was rarely played on the radio, and most Americans knew little of the original song.In 2005, the group broke up, and no longer performed together. All of the members started their own solo careers.The song Numa Numa has recently been sampled by T.I's new single with Rihanna, called "Live Your Life" which is currently #1 on the Billboard Hot 100.DiscographyAlbumsDar, unde eşti... (2000)Number 1 (2002)DiscO-Zone (2004)Singles"Numai Tu" (2002)"Despre tine" (2002)"Dragostea din tei" (2004)"Despre tine" (2004) (Re-Release)External links O-Zone Official WebsiteCategory:Boy bands Category:Moldovan musical groups Category:Romanian musical groups Category:Avex Trax artists Category:Dance musical groups Category:Eurodance groups Category:Romanian-language singers Category:Triosid:O-Zone bg:O-Zone ca:O-zone cs:O-Zone da:O-Zone de:O-Zone el:O-Zone es:O-Zone fr:O-Zone ko:O-Zone io:O-Zone it:O-Zone hu:O-Zone nl:O-Zone ja:O-Zone no:O-Zone pl:O-Zone pt:O-Zone ro:O-Zone ru:O-Zone fi:O-Zone sv:O-Zone tr:O-Zone zh:O-Zone