  |designer = |engine = |released =  |NA=February 9, 2004 |EU=March 12, 2004 |NZ|March 19, 2004 |genre = Action role-playing game |modes = Single player, multiplayer |ratings = ESRB: T (Teen)PEGI: 7+  OFLC: G8+ |platforms = Nintendo GameCube |media = 1 GameCube Optical Disc |requirements = |input = |series = Final Fantasy seriesFinal Fantasy Crystal Chronicles series   is a video game for the Nintendo GameCube. It is the first ''Final Fantasy game on a Nintendo console since Final Fantasy VI.The game follows the quest of various fictional races to replenish the magic crystals that keep them safe from the miasma of poisonous gas that has enveloped their world.Square (now Square Enix) created The Game Designers Studio, a second-party studio which included people who had worked on the Final Fantasy games for PlayStation to make Final Fantasy games for Nintendo consoles. Many new gameplay elements were included in this game, such as real time fighting, as well as being the first RPG to incorporate GameCube-Game Boy Advance compatibility. It was scored by Kumi Tanioka. The game was greeted with good reviews overall, with many calling the graphics beautiful and the multiplayer design innovative. Two further Crystal Chronicles games have been released (chronologcially, one a direct sequel, one a distant prequel), and two more, one for the Wii and one for both the Wii and Nintendo DS are in development, making Crystal Chronicles a sub-series.GameplayThe game can be broken down into three general actions which constitute the bulk of the game: explore, interact and fight.The story involves a character or group of characters journeying great distances throughout the world to complete a central quest, although many smaller quests will arise along the way. In the process, they meet dozens of people, fight off monsters, discover hidden treasure and unfold the storyline. In Crystal Chronicles, movement in the game is from a third-person viewpoint. This type of movement is where players will spend the majority of their time. However, with more than one player, the movement must be restricted to keep all the players on the screen at the same time. Because of this, an aura given off by the "crystal chalice," (see plot and setting below) restricts characters to staying on-screen, otherwise the miasma rapidly damages the character. For movement across large distances, the players go to the world map view, which is a zoomed-out view of the world which players use to venture from town to town and other far-away locales.CombatCombat in Crystal Chronicles is real-time and takes place in the regular movement mode. Magic plays a large role in the game, with classic Final Fantasy spells like "Fire," "Blizzard," and "Thunder" available. Players can find stones of Magicite by defeating enemies or opening treasure chests. Magicite stones allow players to cast the appropriate spell and are retained by players until they leave the combat area, drop them, or destroy them. In addition to these stones, rare artifact rings that act as Magicite can be acquired, which are retained permanently at the end of stages, thus letting the player cast the magic any time instead of first acquiring the proper Magicite.Advanced spells in this game are achieved when the effects of two spells are fused together. In single player mode, fusion spells require multiple Magicite being placed together in the menu. Higher level forms of spells, such as Fira, Thundara, and Blizzara, are formed by two of the same Magicite (i.e. Fire and Fire equals Fira). Other spells can be created by mixing Magicite. For example, Holy is created with an elemental spell (Fire, Thunder, or Blizzard) over Life, while Gravity is created by two different elemental spells. More complex spells can be created with different sets of Magicite.In multiplayer mode, players cannot fuse spells by themselves. Two spells cast at the same time will create whatever fusion single player mode would have (i.e. Fire and Fire = Fira). Higher level spells like Firaga and Thundaga require special timing when used in multiplayer mode, as do spells unobtainable in single player, like Graviga, a more powerful version of Gravity. Adding more spells to a fused spell in multiplayer will also add to its effectiveness in some way, and often change its name, such as three Fire spells creating Fira +1. Spells can also be "fused" with a weapon, or a charged "Focus Attack" from an ally in multiplayer, to form a magical strike with secondary effects and increased damage.Connectivity featuresThe most unusual aspect of Crystal Chronicles is that up to four players can play at once using a Game Boy Advance (GBA) connected to the GameCube via a Nintendo GameCube Game Boy Advance cable. When more than one player wishes to play the game, each player is required to play using a GBA as their controller. Multi-player mode allows several things to happen. Players use the GBA to switch between various attack commands, spells, items and equipment. This allows the game to proceed uninterrupted when one player wants to make an adjustment in the middle of a battle. However, this also means that monsters will continue attacking the defenseless player who is navigating the menus. When the players enter a dungeon or a cave, each player's GBA screen will show different information. A map will appear on one player’s GBA, and a radar showing monster locations will appear on another. When playing with three players, a radar showing the location of chests or detailed monster stats will appear on the third player's GBA. If four people are playing, the fourth player will be allocated the screen that the third player did not get. Players must therefore communicate the information to each other to venture safely through each dungeon, which adds a unique element to playing Crystal Chronicles. Additionally, when entering a dungeon or cave, each player is awarded a secret goal displayed on their GBA. The order in which prizes are selected at the end of a level is determined by how well each player has satisfied his or her goal compared to others. The GBA also has the added benefit of clearing away information clutter from the game screen itself, so that players can get a clear view of the game without the screen being obscured with excess information.At the end of each dungeon lies a myrrh tree and a selection of prizes. These prizes could be a rare item for crafting, a design for armour or weapons, or "artifacts", which permanently increase one statistic by a certain amount, permanently increase maximum health points or number of activity slots by one, or allow a character to cast a specific spell without magicite. After defeating the boss in an area, players obtain four random artifacts. In addition, artifacts encountered inside the dungeon temporarily increase the statistic the artifact controls until the player exits the dungeon.The story unfolds as the players journey from territory to territory, talking with people and completing quests. While traveling, a caravan may encounter other travelers, which are displayed in cut-scenes. These breaks in the game further enhance the story and can be random or part of the storyline. Each encounter is recorded in the caravan's journal and is recorded as a memory. By piecing memories together the player learns the history of the world, the nature of the miasma, or subplots of the game, depending on what they have seen.One unique role-playing aspect of Crystal Chronicles is that the players can and should interact with their in-game family. The players choose their characters family trade at the start of the game, and based upon this occupation the parents will aid the players in various ways. Blacksmith parents, for example, will forge new equipment for the players, merchant parents will sell rare items, alchemist parents can create designs for new equipment, and so on. Additionally, players will have opportunities at the end of each dungeon to write home or send gifts to their parents. Players with good relationships with their parents are more likely to receive gifts from them in return, as well as gain discounts on their wares.PlotSettingIn Crystal Chronicles, the world is covered by a strange, invisible toxin in the air, known as miasma. It is poisonous to the four races: Selkies, Lilties, Clavats, and Yukes. Despite this, cities are located in several places, protected by magical crystals that fend off the miasma, but are fueled by a rare substance known as Myrrh. To collect the Myrrh, which can only be found on a rare breed of tree, each city recruits a crystal caravan. These caravans carry with them a "crystal chalice", a magical container with a shard of protective crystal attached. The caravans then travel around the world, seeking the trees that bear the magical essence.RacesThe Clavats are biologically similar to humans and are a very peaceful race."A gentle people that value harmony above all. Many of Tipa's residents belong to this tribe of unity and friendship. They are gentle by nature and dislike conflict. When disputes arise, they do whatever they can to resolve them. It is said that tranquility follows them wherever they go." Final Fantasy Crystal Chronicles instruction booklet, The Game Designers Studio, Inc (2003/4). They are generally farmers or ranchers. In the present day, a majority of Clavats live and work in the fertile Fields of Fum, providing a majority of the world's produce. Clavats are only confirmed to be capable of interbreeding with Selkies and Lilties. Their emblem is a crystal with a wing seen in profile, similar to the ones on the heels of their shoes. Clavats' main advantage in battle is their high defense, which makes them good for being able to withstand powerful enemies. They fight with swords, and use shields as their race-exclusive armor.The Lilties are a proud, stout race of warriors and knights. In the past they ruled the world in an empire,"Little warriors that have lived all over the world since ancient times. Long ago, they ruled the world, and many still believe themselves to be superior to others. Though they can be hotheaded, they are also confident and down-to-earth. Liltian merchants are some of the best around." Final Fantasy Crystal Chronicles instruction booklet, The Game Designers Studio, Inc (2003/4). founded off the weapons forged from materials of the Cathurigian mines. Even though their empire is now gone, the Lilties maintain the roads built then, and form patrols to ensure the safety of the towns and caravans. The Lilties are the shortest race in the game, as an adult liltie is noticeably shorter than most other characters. The lilties also have a unique, flower-like appearance, which is perhaps the source of their name. Their emblem is a triple-pronged spear with two banner furls. Of the four races, Lilties are the most powerful, starting with a naturally high attack stat that lets them do heavy damage. They are inept at magic, and take the longest time to cast a spell. They equip gauntlets as their race-exclusive armor, and use spears as weapons.Selkies are taller than Lilties, around the same height as Clavats, and usually have silver, blue, or light purple hair. They are a rugged race that dress in furs and stolen goods, and are mostly thieves. They usually put their own interests first and are often scorned by the other tribes."Rugged individuals that clothe themselves in fur decorated with stolen goods. Unlike other tribes, they believe in putting themselves first. Many Selkies are agile and athletic, traits they put to good use as thieves Though the other tribes tend to scorn them, some Selkies now reside in Clavatian villages." Final Fantasy Crystal Chronicles instruction booklet, The Game Designers Studio, Inc (2003/4). In the past, the Selkies were under the control of the Liltian empire and migrated from their ancestral homes to search for a safer place to live. They also seem to have been developed more culturally than in the present. They had their own language, and modern Yukes are studying Selkic texts on the Miasma, suggesting that they had lore of their own. It is said that they come from the sea. Their emblem is a stylized Selkie dancing, kicking, or jumping. It has two arms raised up, and one leg to the side. Selkies are the speediest of the races, and can take enemies down with a hit-and-run tactic. Selkies' race-exclusive armor is belts, and as weapons they use rackets.Yukes are tall, slender creatures with helmets that cover their faces most of the time (one Yuke does open his helmet in the opening but closes it before he turns toward the screen), though it is mentioned by a scholar in the game that Yukes may lack physical bodies and only have souls. They also have long, feathered, striped arms, and small, vestigial wings. In the past, the Yukes were the only tribe not to be under the control of the Liltian empire. They achieved this by being sieged on the island of Shella, aided by their magic."Mysterious tribe of great lore and wisdom. Many of these sages live quietly in Shella. In the ancient wars, they were able to resist the invading Liltian armies thanks to their magical prowess. Now they spend their days, teaching magic to others. Some say that Yukes assumed their current form to augment their magical talents." Final Fantasy Crystal Chronicles instruction booklet, The Game Designers Studio, Inc (2003/4). In the recent past, they built the Sluice of Veo Lu, which diverts Lake Shella into the Jegon River and enables the high fertility in Fum. A majority of Yukes live at Shella, teaching magic to others, but they still retain their aloofness. A non-Yuke can enter the city only if they have a Mark of Shella, which can be found at the Sluice. Their emblem is a stylized Yuke seen head on. Yukes are powerful magic casters, but are weak physical attackers. Their "Defend" command is possibly the most useful, as it makes them immune to all physical and magical attacks. Yukes use hammers as weapons, and their race-exclusive armor is helmets.CharactersMany characters are encountered throughout the game, each with their own story to tell.Amidatty: the rather eccentric leader of the Yuke caravan from Shella. At one point in the game, he buys a loaf of bread from Gurdy, who claims it to be a highly scientific model of the world, believing mold that formed in it to represent miasma. Amidatty reveals later that he knew it was bread the entire time.The Black Knight: a mad Lilty knight clad from head to toe in black armor. He spends his time chasing a 'light' across the countryside claiming it stole his memories. Later he is mortally wounded by a child Lilty, Leon Esla, that believed the Black Knight killed his father. Before the Black Knight dies, he seemingly remembers who he was before he died. It turns out that Leon Esla was his son, born after he left with Hurdy to try and rid the world of miasma.De Nam: A rather peculiar Selkie who players meet in Shella. He is studying magic and wants to one day rid the world of miasma. He will send players letters if they talk to him in Shella saying he is drinking miasma filled water in Conall Curach to try and build up immunity to miasma. His final letter to players tells them to come to Conall Curach, where a random monster will give them his worn bandana when killed.Gurdy: The rather untrustworthy Clavat makes his living out of cheating people out of their money. Players see him cheat both the Fields of Fum caravan and Amidatty. Possessing a great acting ability and silver tongue he seems to get away with it, though he often comes begging to players for help or money. Though one of the less pure characters he does help players a great deal in their quest with his poems. It later turns out that he has suffered from a loss of memories and barely knows who he is.Hurdy: A traveling priest who is apparently Gurdy's brother. However, near the end of the game, players will be given clues that suggest that Hurdy is Gurdy, who thought his name was Gurdy after his memories were stolen by Raem. This is confirmed in the Final Fantasy Crystal Chronicles Official Guide.Mog: A moogle who carries the chalice for the player in single-player mode. He will also ask the player to paint him and trim his fur in the moogle holes. Depending on what color he is painted, he may add his power to the player's for spells (red for fire, blue for blizzard, green for thunder). If a GBA (Game Boy Advance) or SP is connected to socket two with a GBA GCN connector during single player mode, the color will also change the type of radar it displays. (Normal or cut hair for Map, red for Enemy Radar, blue for Treasure Chest Radar, green for Monster Data)Princess Fiona: The half Lilty half Clavat princess of Alfitaria. She runs away from Alfitaria during the game because she is scared of her duties, but is eventually inspired by the caravan and decides to return home giving a large sum of money to the caravan.Raem: An evil demon or monster who consumes people's memories. He thrives on painful memories and therefore benefits from the miasma's effect on civilization.Roland: In year two onwards till around year five the village elder will stop characters on the bridge on their way out of Tipa to give them some information about a scholar from Tipa who wanted to rid the world of miasma and hired the Black Knight for protection when he traveled in search of a way to get rid of miasma. The scholar apparently disappeared after sending a letter home to him from Mag Mel. He also claims that he recited certain poems which seemed to refer to the Lynari Desert. Gurdy will later recite these poems for players revealing that he could possibly have been the scholar before he lost his memories, when he was named Hurdy. This is confirmed in Final Fantasy Crystal Chronicles Official Guide.Sol Racht: The Lilty leader of the Alfitaria caravan. The knight is the first character players meet in the game and introduces them to the moogle who teaches them how to fight. Although he is a little obtuse he helps the caravan, often giving advice, food, or weapons. Later in the game, his child is born, and he retires to provide parental care.StoryIn Crystal Chronicles, players take on the role of caravaners from a small town, and work to maintain their town's crystal and locate and destroy the miasma. To do this, they visit many other cities, cross oceans, and explore dungeons, fields, caves, and other varied locales in order to obtain myrrh and acquire better equipment. The trees of myrrh are universally guarded by strong monsters, so it is up to the players to defeat them and gain access to the trees.DevelopmentCrystal Chronicles was developed to be more easily accessible due to its higher level of "action elements". The game was met with much initial confusion as to the nature of the new Square Enix and Nintendo project.Audio  Final Fantasy Crystal Chronicles Original Soundtrack is composed by Kumi Tanioka. It was released on the Pony Canyon label on August 20, 2003. The two English versions of the opening and ending ("Morning Sky" and "Moonless Starry Night") sung by Donna Burke were not included. The style of the music on this album is not defined, but was described by Kumi Tanioka as being based on "ancient instruments". The soundtrack has extensive use of many medieval and Renaissance musical instruments such as the recorder, the crumhorn and the lute, creating a distinctively rustic feel.Final Fantasy Crystal Chronicles: A Musical Journey was a European promotional album which was given alongside the game, during its launch period. It contains six tracks from the game, including "Kaze No Ne" ("Sound of the Wind" in English) in both Japanese (vocals: Yae) and in English (vocals: Donna Burke), which was not included in the standard original soundtrack. It is published under the "Nintendo Soundtrack Series"."Kaze no Ne" ("Sound of the Wind") is the opening song of Final Fantasy Crystal Chronicles. It was released as a single by Yae, featuring the "Kaze No Ne" song, and arrange version, and two other promotional tracks which have nothing to do with the game.Reception |MC = 80 of 100 |GR = 80 of 100  Crystal Chronicles received good reviews overall. The game was noted in IGN for its Phantasy Star Online-like multiplayer cooperative play, but the use of the Game Boy Advance, while innovative, was thought to be detrimental to the gameplay. The game received the Grand Prize at the 2003 Japan Media Arts Festival. It was also rated the 42nd best game made on a Nintendo System in Nintendo Power's Top 200 Games list..Crystal Chronicles has since evolved into a metaseries. There are currently three more games set in the same world: Final Fantasy Crystal Chronicles: Ring of Fates, a prequel for Nintendo DS, Final Fantasy Crystal Chronicles: The Crystal Bearers, a sequel for the Wii, Final Fantasy Crystal Chronicles: Echoes of Time for the Nintendo DS and Wii and Final Fantasy Crystal Chronicles: My Life as a King, a direct sequel for Wii released through the WiiWare download service.MangaShortly after the release of Crystal Chronicles, there was a manga series that ran in Monthly Shonen Gangan known as .ReferencesExternal linksOfficial site by Square-Enix[http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/gamecube/data/914433.html GameFAQs entry for Final Fantasy Crystal Chronicles][http://www.gamerankings.com/htmlpages2/914433.asp?q=final%20fantasy%20crystal%20chronicles Collection of reviews of Final Fantasy Crystal Chronicles] Category:2003 albums Category:2003 video games Category:Final Fantasy Crystal Chronicles Category:Final Fantasy games Category:GameCube-only games Category:GameCube games Category:Final Fantasy albumsde:Final Fantasy Crystal Chronicles es:Final Fantasy Crystal Chronicles fr:Final Fantasy Crystal Chronicles id:Final Fantasy Crystal Chronicles it:Final Fantasy Crystal Chronicles nl:Final Fantasy Crystal Chronicles ja:ファイナルファンタジー・クリスタルクロニクル pl:Final Fantasy Crystal Chronicles pt:Final Fantasy Crystal Chronicles fi:Final Fantasy Crystal Chronicles th:ไฟนอลแฟนตาซีคริสตัลโครนิเคิลส์