 is a city located in the south-central portion of Gifu Prefecture, Japan, and serves as the prefectural capital. The city has played an important role in Japan's history because of its location in the middle of the country. During the Sengoku period, various warlords, including Oda Nobunaga, used the area as a base in an attempt to unify and control Japan. Gifu continued to flourish even after Japan's unification as both an important shukuba along the Edo period NakasendōNakasendo to Shukuba-machi.  Gifu City Hall. Accessed September 9, 2007. and, later, as one of Japan's fashion centers. Before becoming a modern city, it was part of the former Atsumi District, but it has since been designated a core city by the national government.Located on the alluvial plain of the Nagara River, Gifu has taken advantage of the surrounding natural resources to create both traditional industries (including Mino washi and agriculture) and tourism opportunities like cormorant fishing. Mount Kinka, one of the city's major symbols, is home to a nationally-designated forest and Gifu Castle, a replica of Nobunaga's former castle. Gifu also hosts many festivals and events throughout the year.Two major rail lines connect Gifu to Japan's national and international transportation infrastructure. JR Central's Tōkaidō Main Line runs through the city, connecting it with Nagoya, one of Japan's largest cities, and the surrounding area. The city has a direct train route to Chūbu Centrair International Airport and facilities capable of hosting international events. Gifu has active relationships with six sister cities.HistoryTwo archaeological sites in the city of Gifu have shown that the area around modern-day Gifu has had residents since pre-historyGifu in the Heart of Japan. Harry Hill, 1988. because of Gifu's location in the fertile Nōbi Plain. The Ryomonji and Kotozuka sites have produced large burial mounds that are representative of the late-Yayoi period, which is when rice cultivation began in Japan. As civilization in Japan grew, permanent settlements began to appear and, eventually, the village of Inokuchi was established, which would eventually become the modern city of Gifu.Sengoku period"Control Gifu and you control Japan"Instant Gifu. Gifu International Center, 1995. was a common phrase during the Sengoku period (15th to 17th century), since Gifu's central location in Japan made it a desirable location for those trying to unify the country. For over 200&nbsp;years, the Mino Province (including the present-day city of Gifu) was under control of the Toki Clan, a powerful regional clan.Toki clan.  Sengoku Expo. Accessed July 4, 2007. However, during the Sengoku period, Saitō Dōsan, a Toki vassal, rebelled against his clan and took control of Mino Province in 1542 and built Inabayama Castle atop Mount Inaba, from which he began his quest to unify Japan.During Dōsan's reign, his daughter Nōhime married Oda Nobunaga, an aspiring warlord from the neighboring Owari Province, with the hopes of uniting the two families' powers. Nobunaga, who shared Dōsan's vision of uniting all of Japan, rebelled and overthrew Dōsan in the mid-sixteenth century, as Dōsan had done to his retainer.Sengoku Bushō Retsuden 12: Saitō Dōsan.  Accessed September 20, 2007. It was during Nobunaga's reign of power that the area finally received its modern name. After consulting with a Buddhist priest, Nobunaga renamed the village and the surrounding Mino Province to Gifu in 1567.Stone ledger in front of Kashimori Shrine. Erected by Kashimori Shrine. He took the first character (岐 gi) from Qishan (岐山), the legendary mountain from which most of ancient China was unified. The second character (阜 fu) means "base of the mountain" and comes from Qufu (曲阜), the birthplace of Confucius.Gifu tour guide - Outline of Gifu Prefecture. Gifu Prefecture Tourist Federation. Accessed September 9, 2007. Though he was not originally from the area, Nobunaga chose to use Dōsan's castle and mountain as his base of operations, which he renamed Gifu Castle and Mount Kinka, respectively.Gifu's economy grew immensely during this period, primarily due to its location at the center of Nobunaga's expanding empire. Additionally, Nobunaga established Rakuichi Rakuza (楽市楽座), a free market for his citizens to use, in direct response to the commercial monopoly of the area's temples and shrines. The liveliness of the town caused Louis Frois, a Portuguese Jesuit Missionary and guest of Nobunaga, to describe Gifu as a "bustling Babylon".Edo and Meiji periodsFollowing the death of Nobunaga, Gifu's growth continued through the Edo period with the establishment of the Nakasendō as one of Tokugawa's five routes. Though the route did not pass directly through Gifu, the nearby post towns of Kanō-juku and Gōdo-juku provided traffic and were later amalgamated into the modern city of Gifu. The area continued to prosper once Gifu became a central location along the Nakasendō.In the middle of the Meiji period, Gifu was officially established as a city on July 1, 1889, with an original population of 25,750&nbsp;people and an area of 10&nbsp;km².Gifu-shi no Ayumi (Outline of Gifu City 2005). Gifu City Hall, April 2005. On October 28, 1891, two years later, the Mino-Owari Earthquake occurred, estimated at 8&nbsp;magnitude on the Richter Scale.Mino Earthquake.  Tokyo Science Museum. Accessed July 5, 2007. About 37% of the city was lost to fire, resulting in 1,505&nbsp;casualties (245&nbsp;dead, 1,260&nbsp;injured) and 6,336&nbsp;buildings affected (3,993 of which were completely destroyed). As a result, Gifu erected the first Earthquake Memorial Hall in all of Japan, which holds memorial services for the victims on the 28th of every month.Gifu recovered from the earthquake damage by the end of the Meiji period, and by 1911 was prosperous enough to establish a municipal street car service throughout the city.World War IIIn 1940, Gifu absorbed the former post town of Kanō, greatly increasing its land area. Kanō had many traditional industries, which helped improve Gifu's overall industrial strength. With the neighboring city of Kakamigahara serving as an aeronautics center for Japan, Gifu was a large industrial center during World War II, including a downtown manufacturing sector.Crew 3's Account of Gifu Mission.  39th Bomb Group Association. Accessed July 13, 2007. As a result, Gifu was the target of heavy firebombing by the United States Army Air Forces, culminating in the Gifu Air Raid of July 9, 1945, which resulted in 1,383&nbsp;casualties (863&nbsp;dead, 520&nbsp;injured) and 20,426&nbsp;buildings affected. Gifu commemorates these events each year on July 9, with the ringing of the Peace Bell at each temple within the city. Its sister cities also take part in these events.During World War II, Gifu also served as the base for the creation of Japan's fire balloons. These paper-based, bomb-carrying hot air balloons were used in a failed attempt to cause havoc on American soil. Local high school girls made these fire balloons out of Mino washi (a thin but strong Japanese paper) and konnyaku paste.Weather of the Empire. Togo Tsukuhara, Kobe University. Accessed June 13, 2007. Originally, rubberized silk was used to help these bombs use the newly discovered jet stream to traverse the Pacific Ocean, but Gifu's paper was found to be both stronger, lighter, and more airtight.The Fire Balloons. Greg Goebel. Accessed November 23, 2007.Modern historyIn the years following the wars, tragedy struck Gifu once again. On September 12, 1976, Typhoon 17 (Super Typhoon Fran) struck the city, killing five people and affecting over 40,000&nbsp;families. Gifu recovered, however, through the establishment of various local industries. The city's growth reached such a point that it was designated a core city by the national government in 1996. As its fashion industry has declined, however, the city has been looking towards manufacturing to revive the economy. A recent construction boom, much of which has occurred around JR Gifu Station, has improved the city's economy. Both public construction projects (station area renovations and elevated walkways) and private efforts are revitalizing the city of Gifu. Gifu City Tower 43 is an example of cooperation between the public and private sectors, with part of the building belonging to the city and the remainder privately owned.Gifu Station West Area Urban Redevelopment Group Homepage.  Gifu City Hall. Accessed October 22, 2007. Gifu expanded its size in 2006 by merging with the neighboring town of Yanaizu during the great Heisei merger.GeographyThe city of Gifu is located in the southern portion of the prefecture and is on the northern edge of the Nōbi Plain. It is also the main city of the Gifu region of the prefecture. Much of Gifu's land area has been gained as the result of mergers, but the city's size grew the most through mergers with the neighboring towns of Kanō (in 1940) and Yanaizu (in 2006). As a result, Gifu's geography is very diverse, ranging from the built-up city center to persimmon orchards and strawberry patches in the outlying areas.Gifu City: Where History and Culture Still Thrive. Gifu City Tourism Convention Division, 2007]. The northern part of the city is bordered by tree-covered mountains, whereas most of the city center is spread throughout the southern part. The Nagara River cuts the city in half, running from the northeast to the southwest. Much of the city is part of the Nagara River's alluvial plain and an environmental conservation district. Because of the formation of the river, the area is prone to flooding when large rains occur; however, dykes and levies have been built to control the excess water. The rich soil of the area is prime farmland; as of 2005, 6,731&nbsp;farms were operating on .Though the foehn winds from the mountains to the west provide dry, warm air to the city during the summer, it still experiences a wide range of weather throughout the year. In 2005, the low temperature was  and the high was ; the average temperature was . That same year, the city received  of precipitation. Japan Meteorological Agency. Accessed March 10, 2008.Record Yearly Values.  Japan Meteorological Agency. Accessed March 11, 2008. |accessdate= March 2008 Demographics+Population by yearYearPopulation2007423,1942000402,7511990410,3241980410,2571970385,7271960304,4921950211,8451940172,340193090,112192062,713191042,916188925,750When Gifu was founded in 1889, it was a small city that experienced moderate growth as Japan industrialized at the beginning of the century. During Japan's military buildup in the 1930s, the city became an industrial center and experienced exponential growth. Gifu remained prosperous in the post-war years, until its population started to decline like many Japanese cities in the 1980s and '90s. Though the city has shown a large increase in population in recent years, this trend results largely from the inclusion, for the first time, of the population of Yanaizu, which added about 13,000 people to Gifu's numbers. Foreign residents of the city, who number over 9,000, also factor into this growth. Shortly after this change, however, the city's economic revival strengthened and the population began to show a true increase.Gifu's current population, as of January 1, 2008, is 423,194. The gender breakdown is 201,809&nbsp;males and 221,385&nbsp;females, with a total of 167,055&nbsp;households within the city limits.Gifu City Hall Homepage.  Gifu City Hall. Accessed January 16, 2008. Similar to many areas in Japan, the percentage of senior citizens over 65&nbsp;years of age is approximately 21.67%, compared to only 14.13% of the population younger than 15.Population Statistics.  Gifu City Hall. Accessed January 16, 2008. This is comparable to the population of the prefecture and of Japan as a whole. In the prefecture, 22.1% of the population is over 65 and 14.4% of the population is less than 15&nbsp;years old.Statistics Division of Gifu Prefecture.  Gifu Prefecture. Accessed November 2, 2007. Throughout Japan, only 21% are over the age of 65 and 13.6% are younger than 15.Asia: Japan: Most Elderly Nation. The New York Times. Accessed January 17, 2008. The average age of city residents is 43.37.Local governmentThe city of Gifu's government is led by the mayor, who is directly elected by the citizens and serves a four-year term. Supporting the mayor are two vice-mayors and the city treasurer, all of whom are appointed by the mayor.Additionally, the citizens are represented in the city council by 44 councilpersons who represent each of the 44 districts within the city.City Council Outline.  Gifu City Hall. Accessed April 1, 2008. No members of the city council are selected through at at-large election. Like the mayor, each member of the city council serves a four-year term and all seats are up for election at the same time. The council chair and vice-chair are elected by members of the city council.LifestyleThe downtown area of the city is a bedroom community of nearby Nagoya, which has larges offices of many international companies, including Toyota.Toyota: Company Profile. Toyota Motor Corporation. Accessed January 18, 2008. The ease of commute between the two cities, as well as the plentiful apartment construction underway, has contributed to this distinction. Just north of Gifu Station is Gifu City Tower 43, a 43-story high-rise building developed by Takenaka Corporation that opened on October 13, 2007 as the tallest building in Gifu Prefecture.JLGC NewsLetter No. 60, Winter 2007. Japan Local Government Center (CLAIR, New York). The upper 30 floors are divided into two- and three-bedroom apartments, including those for senior citizens.Gifu City Tower 43.  Gifu City Tower 43. Accessed June 22, 2007. The lower floors will be used as offices or shops for targeted services such as medical care. Additionally, public space exists at the top of the building, allowing residents another 360-degree view of Gifu, complementing that offered from Gifu Castle.The city of Gifu is currently promoting the Slow Life City Initiative,Slow Life City Gifu.  Gifu City Hall. Accessed January 20, 2008. which is similar to, but more comprehensive than, the slow food initiative. It is designed to encourage residents to lead a slower lifestyles and provide an alternative to the fast-paced life of the modern world. Major elements of this campaign include more dependence on locally grown food; traditional culture and arts; and activities to increase citizens’ participation in their community. In addition to slow food, Gifu also hopes to include slow industry (traditional crafts), slow education (studying quality of life), and slow tourism (represented by cormorant fishing).IndustryGifu's first major industry was textiles.Industry of Gifu Prefecture: Fiber. Gifu Prefecture. Accessed September 21, 2007. For a long period of time it rivaled Tokyo and Osaka as a leader of the Japanese fashion industry. The area just north of JR Gifu Station contains a variety of small clothing stores catering to many types of consumers. Furthermore, the city's main downtown covered shopping arcade, Yanagase, features many clothing, shoe, and accessory shops that carry both domestic and overseas goods. Over the past decade, though, as Gifu's fashion industry has declined steeply, the city has begun developing other industries to support the local economy.One such industry is manufacturing. Because the city is located near Aichi Prefecture and its many major automotive and heavy industry companies, such as Toyota, Gifu has become a prosperous area for many metalworking, mold and die, and parts subcontractors. Its access to neighboring areas using public transportation and highways has allowed companies to set up many factories and facilities in the area.In addition to the modern industries upon which Gifu's economy rests, the city also has a wide array of traditional industries, which include traditional Gifu Fans, Mino washi and foods created from the ayu sweetfish. Many shops throughout the city produce these goods. The most well-known local industries, though, are traditional Gifu Lanterns and Umbrellas. There are approximately 15&nbsp;businesses that make lanterns in the city, the largest of which is the Ozeki Lantern, Co.[http://www.ozeki-lantern.co.jp/ Kabushiki Kaisha Ozeki].  Ozeki Lantern, Co. Accessed January 18, 2008. In the Kanō area, visitors have the opportunity to take a course and make their own paper umbrellas.TourismCormorant fishing Cormorant fishing is the representative tourist attraction of Gifu. Though it occurs in many places in Japan, cormorant fishing on the Nagara River dates back more than 1,300 years. This is also the largest display of cormorant fishing in all of Japan, with six fishing masters going down the river at the same time, using their birds to catch ayu sweetfish. The season lasts from May 11 to October 15 every year and occurs each night, except during high water levels and the harvest moon.Cormorant Fishing on the Nagara River.  Gifu City Cormorant Fishing Viewing Boat Office, 2007.Matsuo Bashō, a renowned haiku poet in the Edo period, spent many months in Gifu, creating haiku about many things, including cormorant fishing. Famed comedian Charlie Chaplin also came to view cormorant fishing on the Nagara River twice, reportedly moved by the experience.Cormorant Fishing on the Nagara River.  Gifu City Hall. Accessed June 8, 2007.MuseumsThe largest of the city-supported museums is the Gifu City Museum of History. It is located in Gifu Park and its permanent exhibit primarily focuses on Gifu's past, containing many hands-on exhibits.Gifu City Museum of History Homepage.  Gifu City Museum of History. Accessed June 8, 2007. It often hosts special exhibits, though, providing a broader field of information to its visitors. Also located in Gifu Park is the Eizō &amp; Tōichi Katō Memorial Art Museum, which is a semi-autonomous branch of the history museum. This art museum is dedicated to the works of the brothers Eizō and Tōichi Katō, famous artists born in Gifu Prefecture. The Nagara River and cormorant fishing feature prominently in a number of their pieces. The Yanaizu Folklore Museum in the Yanaizu-chō area of the city is the other branch of the Museum of History.There are two other museums in Gifu Park, too. The Nawa Insect Museum, next to the history museum, and the Gifu Castle Archive Museum, next to Gifu Castle atop Mount Kinka. The Nawa Insect Museum was founded by Yasushi Nawa, Japan's "Insect Man," in 1919, and provides a closeup look at insects and their world.Other museums include the Gifu City Science Museum and the Museum of Fine Arts, Gifu, both located near the prefectural office. In addition to the Science Museum's general exhibits, it also includes a planetarium and a rooftop observatory. The prefectural Museum of Fine Arts was opened in 1982, dedicated to art and artists related to Gifu Prefecture, though it also contains pieces from around the world.Museum of Fine Arts, Gifu.  Museum of Fine Arts, Gifu. Accessed June 5, 2007. In 2006 the city instituted a policy that allows elementary and junior high school students to enter many of the city's museums free of charge.Festivals and eventsThe first major festivals of the year are the Dōsan Festival and the Gifu Festival, both of which occur on the first Saturday and following Sunday of April.Gifu City Event Calendar.  Gifu Convention and Visitors Bureau. Accessed June 5, 2007. Because the Dōsan Festival is a memorial to Saitō Dōsan, many of the festivities take place near Jōzai-ji, where his remains are buried. The Gifu Festival is a Shinto festival that begins at Inaba Shrine and winds its way through other shrines within the city. Both festivals include street vendors, flea markets, and floats paraded through the city. The Gifu Nobunaga Festival, which takes place on the first Saturday and following Sunday of October, also pays homage to a former lord of Gifu. This festival centers on the downtown area and includes a procession of horses and warriors down the city's main streets.The city also has festivals representing its cultural heritage. Twice each year, there is a Tejikara Fire Festival. It first occurs on the second Saturday of April at Tejikarao Shrine and it again occurs on the second Sunday of August at Nagara River Park. Half-naked men ring bells, and carry shrines and other devices that shoot off large sparks. Near the end of August, the city sponsors Takigi Noh, a traditional form of Japanese theater that takes place on the banks of the Nagara River, lit only by the surrounding bonfires and the fires of cormorant boats.Twice a year, Gifu plays hosts to two large fireworks festivals. Large numbers of visitors gather on the banks of the Nagara River between Nagara and Kinka Bridge to see these festivals, among the largest in Japan.Gifu Prefecture: Japan's Beautiful Heartland. Gifu International Center, 1994. The first festival, the Chunichi Shimbun Nagara River All-Japan Fireworks Festival, occurs on the last Saturday of July. The second, the Nagara River National Fireworks Display, occurs on the first Saturday of August. Approximately 30,000&nbsp;fireworks are set off at each festival, with crowds of 400,000&nbsp;and 120,000&nbsp;visitors, respectively.The downtown area serves as the location for Flag Art Exhibitions a few times throughout the year. The flags displayed measure approximately 3&nbsp;m tall by 1.8&nbsp;m wide (10&nbsp;ft by 6&nbsp;ft).Flag Art Display.  Sōhō Japan. Accessed June 5, 2007. Each set of displays revolves around a different theme (such as the beauty of Gifu or AIDS Awareness) or are created by specific group of persons (for example, local school students or local artists).AthleticsThe main sporting facility in the city is the Gifu Memorial Center, whose complex includes facilities for athletic and other events. Its athletic facilities include a track and field complex, a baseball stadium, and plazas for tennis and swimming, as well as martial arts and traditional arts facilities. There are also two large multi-purpose domes: the Deai Dome (seats 5,000) and the Fureai Dome (seats 700).World Event and Convention Facilities.  Gifu Convention and Visitors Bureau. Accessed January 20, 2008. All of the facilities are equipped for night events. The soccer field at the Memorial Center serves as the home to FC Gifu,FC Gifu Official Site.  FC Gifu. Accessed January 18, 2008. the city's football representative in the J-League. Next to Memorial Center is the Nagaragawa Sports Plaza, a sports science and training center. The facility accommodates up to 300 people and provides access to equipment for improving athletic ability.Just south of these sports facilities, the Naoko Takahashi Road runs along the northern bank of the Nagara River.Naoko Takahashi Road.  MLIT. Accessed January 18, 2008. This pedestrian pathway is named after the Gifu-born marathoner Naoko Takahashi, who won the gold medal in the event at the 2000 Summer Olympics. This road primarily stretches from Nagara Bridge to Chusetsu Bridge, providing a convenient course for events such as the Terry Fox Run and the Nagaragawa International Inline Skating Competition.13th Annual Nagaragawa International Inline Skating Competition.  Gifu City Hall. Accessed January 18, 2008.Other attractionsin bloom in a Gifu park]] Gifu Park is one of the major tourist attractions of the city because it contains many of the museums and is near many other sightseeing spots. However, it also serves as a gathering place because of its large shaded areas that include ponds, waterfalls, cherry trees and wisteria vines.Gifu City Sightseeing Guide.  Gifu City Hall. Accessed January 20, 2008. Next to Gifu Park is Mount Kinka, which serves as one of the main symbols of Gifu. It rises  into the sky along the banks of the Nagara River and serves as the home of Gifu Castle, as well as many hiking trails.Mt. Kinka Hiking Trails.  Gifu City Hall. Accessed June 12, 2007.Other attractions include Bairin Park, filled with over fifty types of plum trees which bloom in an array of colors, from white to dark pink, each Spring. Nagaragawa Onsen is a popular indoor location. This collection of onsen and ryokan inns is located along the Nagara River in central Gifu.Gifu Nagaragawa Onsen.  Gifu Nagaragawa Onsen and Ryokan Cooperative. Accessed June 6, 2007. Its many springs have a high iron content, considered beneficial for a variety of ailments. Also, its close location to the Nagaragawa Convention Center and various high-class hotels make it a popular area for guests.North of the Nagara River is Mount Dodo and Matsuo Pond. Mount Dodo is the tallest mountain in the city, rising . In addition to its numerous hiking trails, it offers hikers views of Mount Haku and the Nagara River. At the southern base of the mountain is Matsuo Pond, which is popular during the fall when all of the foliage is changing colors.The Yanagase covered shopping arcade was the primary shopping district of Gifu for many years, but recently that part of the downtown area has suffered a downturn in popularity as large modern shopping centers have opened in other areas. In addition to its many smaller retail shops and restaurants, Yanagase is also home to Takashimaya, Muji, and two movie theaters. It was made famous throughout the country when Kenichi Mikawa's hit, "Yanagase Blues," was released in the 1960s.Kenichi Mikawa Discography.  Nippon Crown Co., Ltd. Accessed January 18, 2008.Historical areasCastlesGifu's most famous castle is Gifu Castle, located on Mount Kinka. First built by the Nikaidō clan during the Kamakura period, the castle has gone through many forms, with its current version rebuilt in 1956. One of its first residents was Saitō Dōsan, who lived in the castle when it was still called Inabayama Castle. The next resident, Oda Nobunaga, changed the castle's name at the same time that he changed the name of the surrounding town. From the top of the castle, visitors have a 360-degree view, effectively giving them a view to all of the city's borders. Inside the castle are many artifacts from its past.Though the two other castles in the city, Kanō Castle and Kawate Castle, only have ruins marking their former presence, they have both had important roles in the city's past. Kanō Castle was built shortly after the Battle of Sekigahara when Tokugawa Ieyasu ordered the Toyotomi family to build it upon the ruins of a former medieval castle. Okudaira Nobumasa was the first person to live in the castle and he was followed by his descendants until the Meiji period. The castle's citadel ruins are designated a National Historic Site. Gifu City Walking Map. Gifu Lively City Public Corporation, 2007. Kawate Castle was used by the Toki clan while they were guarding Owari, Ise and Mino provinces as the Chief Retainer of the Shogunate during the Muromachi period. It was also used as a meeting place for the cultural and social elite from Kyoto. A stone monument near Seibi High School marks the castle's location.Major shrinesThe most famous shrines in the city include Inaba Shrine, Kogane Shrine, and Kashimori Shrine. They are considered a family of shrines because the Inishiki Irihiko-no-mikoto god at Inaba Shrine is married to the Nunoshi Hime-mikoto goddess at Kogane Shrine; together, they are the parents of the Ichihaya-no-mikoto God at Kashimori Shrine.Inaba Shrine.  Inaba Shrine. Accessed July 6, 2007. Inaba Shrine was originally located on the northern side of Mount Kinka, but was moved to its present location by Saitō Dōsan during his reign over Gifu. Kogane Shrine is located in Kogane Park, behind the Gifu City Culture Center, and a popular legend says that, behind Kashimori Shrine, you can see the footprints of Tenba, a mythical horse.Kanō Tenman-gū, a shrine located in the former Kanō-juku, was built in concurrence with Kanō Castle shortly after the Battle of Sekigahara. Originally built to serve as a place of worship for the castle's residents, it eventually became a place of prayer for many people within the growing town. Tejikarao Shrine, located in the eastern portion of the city, is famous as the home of the April Tejikara Fire Festival. The city is also home to seven of the Mino Thirty-three Kannon.Mino 33 Kannon.  Mino Seigoku Sanjūsan Kannon Reijō-kai. Accessed June 6, 2008.Major templesBecause of the importance of both Saitō Dōsan and Oda Nobunaga, many of Gifu's temples hold strong connections to them. Jōzai-ji, for instance, was built by Saitō Myōchin, an ancestor of Dōsan, under the protection of Toki Shigeyori.Gifu Convention and Visitors Bureau: Jyozai Temple. Gifu Convention and Visitors Bureau. Accessed October 18, 2007. Dōsan took advantage of this temple's support as he began his domination of Mino Province. His presence was so strong that his death was mourned at the temple for three generations, and his remains are now interred there. Zuiryō-ji was also built by Myōchin and is currently undergoing restoration. It contains the tombs of Shigeyori, Myōchin, and Gokei Kokushi. Sōfuku-ji contains the "Blood Ceiling"; it was stained with the blood of the vassals of Oda Nobunaga's grandson, Oda Hidenobu, who committed seppuku during the Battle of Sekigahara after their leader's defeat. This temple contains the mausoleums of both Nobunaga and his son, Oda Nobutada.Shōhō-ji is home to the Gifu Great Buddha, which is also referred to as the "Blessed Buddha". Built during the Edo period, it was the first and largest dry-lacquered Buddha in Japan, and remains one of the three largest Great Buddha Images of Japan. The Buddha and its 13.7-meter (45-foot) bamboo frame took 38 years to build. The nearby garden offers tea and traditional foods.Gifu Great Buddha. Gifu Convention and Visitors Bureau. Accessed June 5, 2007.Jōdo-ji holds the remains of Hanako, Rodin's only Japanese model, who traveled extensively throughout Europe during her career. A statue of Hanako was erected at the temple in 2004. Hanako spent most of her later years in Gifu's Nishizono-chō, just east of Yanagase.EducationEducation in Gifu starts at a young age, with 48&nbsp;nursery schools and 43&nbsp;kindergartens available for children. Students then matriculate into one of the city's 49&nbsp;elementary schools and 27&nbsp;junior high schools. After graduating from junior high school, students have the option of attending one of Gifu's 18 high schools.Map of Gifu City. Gifu City Hall International Affairs Division, January 15, 2003.For those who choose to pursue post-secondary education inside the city, five technical institutions and five colleges and universities offer a variety of courses. The largest of these is Gifu University, the city's national university, which includes a hospital.Gifu University Homepage.  Gifu University. Accessed January 18, 2008. The other four-year institutions are Gifu Shotoku Gakuen University, a private university located in the area of the former town of Yanaizu,Gifu Shotoku Gakuen University Homepage.  Gifu Shotoku Gakuen University. Accessed January 18, 2008. and Gifu Women's University, a private women's university founded in 1968.Gifu Women's University Homepage.  Gifu Women's University. Accessed January 18, 2008. Gifu City Women's College was founded in 1946 as traditional college, but later became a city-supported, public junior college.Gifu City Women's College Homepage.  Gifu City Women's College. Accessed January 18, 2008. Gifu Pharmaceutical University, founded in 1932 as the Gifu City Pharmaceutical College, remains a public university offering graduate-level courses.TransportationGifu's central location and its past connection with the Nakasendō make it one of Japan's central transportation hubs. In addition to being in the center of many rail and bus lines, the city also has seven national highways running through its borders. These include Route 21, 22, 156, 157, 248, 256, and 303.Two rail companies have major train stations downtown: JR Tōkai (Central Japan Railway Company) and Meitetsu (Nagoya Railroad).JR Tōkai: Gifu no Goannai.  JR Central. Accessed December 5, 2007. The JR Tōkaidō Main Line runs through and the Takayama Line begins at JR Gifu Station. Other JR Stations in the city include Nishi Gifu Station and Nagamori Station. The JR Tōkaidō Shinkansen, however, does not run through Gifu Station; its nearest stops are Nagoya Station and Gifu Hashima Station. The Meitetsu lines include the Nagoya Line, the Kakamigahara Line, and the Takehana Line, all of which originate at Meitetsu Gifu Station.Meitetsu Gifu Station.  Meitetsu Railroad. Accessed January 18, 2008. Other Meitetsu Stations in the city include Chajo Station, Kano Station, Tagami Station, Hosobata Station, Kiridoshi Station, Tejikara Station, and Yanaizu Station. Until April 1, 2005, Meitetsu also operated a street car line that ran through Gifu.Municipal bus service first began in Gifu in 1949. Today, Gifu Bus Co., Ltd. provides service within the city, as well as connections to other cities. Its highway buses connect the city with Gujō, Osaka, Kobe, Kyoto and Shinjuku in Tokyo. Gifu Bus also connects Nagoya with Gujō, Seki, Mino and Shirakawa-gō. In addition to inter-city bus routes, many local routes go throughout the city and neighboring areas. All bus lines pass through JR Gifu Station.Another option for travel in Gifu is via bicycle. The city has instituted a bike rental program to increase tourism within the city; the cost to rent a bicycle for one day is 100&nbsp;yen.Machinaka Rent-a-cycle.  Gifu Lively City Corporation. Accessed September 18, 2007. Bicycles can be rented at JR Gifu Station (second floor), Gifu City Hall (South Branch), Gifu Park (Museum of History), and the Cormorant Fishing Boat Viewing Office.Gifu City Rent-a-cycle Port Guide.  Gifu City Hall. Accessed September 18, 2007.Sister/friendship cities Florence, Tuscany, Italy (est. February 8, 1978, sister city) Hangzhou, Zhejiang Province, China (est. February 21, 1979, friendship city) Campinas, São Paulo, Brazil (est. February 22, 1982, sister city) Cincinnati, Ohio, United States of America (est. May 11, 1988, sister city) Meidling District, Vienna, Austria (est. March 22, 1994, sister city) Thunder Bay, Ontario, Canada (est. May 28, 2007, sister city) We, the citizens of Gifu City, respect the traditional culture created in the majestic natural beauty of Mount Kinka and the Nagara River. Here, we declare to strengthen common bonds and endeavor to create a city of freedom and peace with characteristics as follows:A comfortable city where people have respect for nature and mankind;A warm-hearted city where youth have dreams and the aged peacefully enjoy their golden years;A vigorous city where people enjoy both work and play;A cooperative city where people are true to their word and considerate to others;A prosperous city where people mingle freely, improve cultivation and develop individuality.ReferencesExternal linksGifu City Homepage (Japanese)Gifu City Hall (English)Gifu Convention and Visitors Bureau Event Calendar (English)Gifu Bus Co., Ltd. (Japanese)Category:Gifu, Gifu Category:Cities in Gifu Prefecturebs:Gifu (grad) cs:Gifu de:Gifu es:Gifu (Gifu) fr:Gifu (ville) ko:기후 시 id:Gifu, Gifu it:Gifu ka:გიფუ (ქალაქი) lt:Gifu nl:Gifu (stad) ja:岐阜市 pl:Gifu pt:Gifu (cidade) ro:Gifu, Gifu ru:Гифу (город) su:Gifu, Gifu fi:Gifu sv:Gifu tl:Lungsod ng Gipu vi:Gifu (thành phố) tg:Гифу uk:Ґіфу zh:岐阜市