László Moholy-Nagy (), July 20, 1895 &ndash; November 24, 1946) was a Hungarian painter and photographer as well as professor in the Bauhaus school. He was highly influenced by constructivism. He was a strong advocate of the integration of technology and industry into the arts.Moholy-Nagy was born László Weisz to a family of mixed Jewish and Hungarian heritage. He changed his German-Jewish surname to the Magyar surname of his uncle, Nagy. Later, he added the pseudonym Moholy to his surname, after the town in which he grew up (today in Serbia, Mol). After studying law in Budapest and serving in World War I, Moholy-Nagy was in Vienna in 1919, where he first discovered constructivism in exhibitions of works of Malevich, Naum Gabo and El Lissitzky.In 1923, he replaced Johannes Itten as the instructor of the preliminary course at the Bauhaus. This effectively marked the end of the school's expressionistic leanings and moved it closer towards its original aims as a school of design and industrial integration. The Bauhaus became known for the versatility of its artists, and Moholy-Nagy was no exception. Throughout his career, he became proficient and innovative in the fields of photography, typography, sculpture, painting, printmaking, and industrial design. One of his main focuses was on photography. He coined the term "the New Vision" for his belief that photography could create a whole new way of seeing the outside world that the human eye could not. His theory of art and teaching was summed up in the book The New Vision, from Material to Architecture. He experimented with the photographic process of exposing light sensitive paper with objects overlaid on top of it, called photogram. While at the Bauhaus, Moholy's teaching in diverse media -- including painting, sculpture, photography, photomontage and metal -- had a profound influence on a number of his students, including Marianne Brandt.He was editor of the art and photography department of the European avant-garde magazine International Revue i 10 from 1927 to 1929. Moholy-Nagy resigned from the Bauhaus in 1928 and worked in film and stage design in Berlin, where he was required to submit his work to be censored, and then in Paris and Holland before moving to London in 1935. In England, Moholy-Nagy formed part of the circle of émigré artists and intellectuals who based themselves in Hampstead. Moholy-Nagy lived for a time in the Isokon building with Walter Gropius for eight months and then settled in Golders Green. Gropius and Moholy-Nagy planned to establish an English version of the Bauhaus but could not secure backing, and then Moholy-Nagy was turned down for a teaching job at the Royal College of Art. Moholy-Nagy made his way in London by taking on various design jobs including Imperial Airways and a shop display for men's underwear. He photographed contemporary architecture for the Architectural Review where the assistant editor was John Betjeman who commissioned Moholy-Nagy to make documentary photographs to illustrate his book An Oxford University Chest. In 1936, he was commissioned by fellow Hungarian film producer Alexander Korda to design special effects for Things to Come. Working at Denham Studios, Moholy-Nagy created kinetic sculptures and abstract light effects, but they were rejected by the film's director. At the invitation of Leslie Martin, he gave a lecture to the architecture school of Hull University.In 1937, at the invitation of Walter Paepcke, the Chairman of the Container Corporation of America, Moholy-Nagy moved to Chicago to become the director of the New Bauhaus. The philosophy of the school was basically unchanged from that of the original, and its headquarters was the Prairie Avenue mansion that architect Richard Morris Hunt designed for department store magnate Marshall Field.Unfortunately, the school lost the financial backing of its supporters after only a single academic year, and it closed in 1938. Paepcke, however, continued his own support, and in 1939, Moholy-Nagy opened the School of Design. In 1944, this became the Institute of Design. He authored an account of his efforts to develop the curriculum of the School of Design in his book Vision in Motion.Moholy-Nagy died of leukemia in Chicago in 1946.Moholy-Nagy University of Art and Design in Budapest is named in his honour.Pieces of his are currently on display at the Corcoran Gallery of Art in Washington, DC.BibliographyBorchardt-Hume, Achim. Albers and Moholy-Nagy: From the Bauhaus to the New World. New Haven: Yale University Press, 2006.Hight, Eleanor. Picturing Modernity: Moholy-Nagy and Photography in Weimar Germany. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press, 1995.Lusk, Irene-Charlotte. Montagen ins Blaue: Laszlo Moholy-Nagy, Fotomontagen und -collagen 1922-1943. Gießen: Anabas, 1980.Margolin, Victor. The Struggle for Utopia: Rodchenko, Lissitzky, Moholy-Nagy, 1917-1946. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1997.Moholy-Nagy, Lázló. Painting Photography Film. 1925. Trans. Janet Seligman. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press, 1973.Passuth, Krisztina. Moholy-Nagy. Trans. London: Thames and Hudson, 1985.Trivia1. The software company Laszlo Systems (developers of the open source programming language OpenLaszlo) was named in part in honor of Moholy-Nagy.2. In 1998, he received a Tribute Marker from the City of Chicago.3. In the fall of 2003, the Moholy-Nagy Foundation, Inc. was established as a source of information about Moholy-Nagy's life and works.See alsoMarianne BrandtRobert BrownjohnLucia MoholySibyl Moholy-NagyLuminogramExternal links The Moholy-Nagy FoundationInstitute of Design, Chicago[http://arts.guardian.co.uk/features/story/0,,1733328,00.html Long 2006 article in The Guardian on Moholy-Nagy].Moholy-Nagy and the PhotogramLightplay:Black White Gray excerptArt Directors Club biography and portrait Category:1895 births Category:1946 deaths Category:Hungarian painters Category:Hungarian photographers Category:Jewish painters Category:Hungarian Jews Category:Jewish photographers Category:Modern painters Category:Bauhaus Category:Illinois Institute of Technology faculty Category:Communication design Category:Graphic design Category:Burials at Graceland Cemetery (Chicago)cs:László Moholy-Nagy de:László Moholy-Nagy es:László Moholy-Nagy eo:László Moholy-Nagy fr:László Moholy-Nagy hr:Laslo Móholy-Nágy it:László Moholy-Nagy ka:ლასლო მოჰოი-ნადი hu:Moholy-Nagy László nl:László Moholy-Nagy ja:モホリ＝ナジ・ラースロー no:Laszlo Moholy-Nagy pl:László Moholy-Nagy pt:László Moholy-Nagy ru:Мохой-Надь, Ласло sk:László Moholy-Nagy sr:Ласло Мохољи Нађ sv:László Moholy-Nagy