on the county courthouse in Springfield, Ohio.]] A pilaster is a slightly-projecting flattened column built into or applied to the face of a wall. In discussing Leon Battista Alberti's use of pilasters, which Alberti reintroduced into wall-architecture, Rudolf Wittkower wrote, "The pilaster is the logical transformation of the column for the decoration of a wall. It may be defined as a flattened column which has lost its three-dimensional and tactile value."Wittkower, Architectural Principles in the Age of Humanism (1962) 1965:36.A pilaster appears with a capitalA useful phrase to identify a section of pilaster without a capital, with only its fluting to identify its relation to a column, is "pilaster strip". and entablature, also in "low-relief" or flattened against the wall.The pilaster is an architectural element in classical architecture used to give the appearance of a supporting column and to articulate an extent of wall, with only an ornamental function. In contrast, an engaged column or buttress can support the structure of a wall and roof above. Mark Jarzombek, “Pilaster Play” Thresholds 28 Concerto Barocco, Essays dedicated to Henry Millon (Winter 2005), 34-41.Pilasters often appear on the sides of a door frame or window opening on the facade of a building, and are sometimes paired with columns or pillars set directly in front of them at some distance away from the wall, which support a roof structure above, such as a portico. These vertical elements can also be used to support a recessed archivolt around a doorway. The pilaster can be replaced by ornamental brackets supporting the entablature or a balcony over a doorway.As with a column, a pilaster can have a plain or fluted surface to its flattened rectangular profile (cross section) and can be represented in the mode of any of the classical orders. In the giant order pilasters appear as two-storeys tall, linking floors in a single unit.The fashion of using this element from Ancient Greek and Roman architecture was adopted in the Italian Renaissance and later Greek Revival architecture.See alsoArchivoltButtressPost and lintelEngaged columnClassical architectureList of classical architecture termsA pilaster in civil engineering is a vertical rectangular member that is structurally a pier, and architecturally a column. Pilasters are used to decrease the slenderness ratio for the height of masonry walls - L/R Image:Blue Door.jpg|Simple wood pilaster strips flank a blue door Image:2006-05 Frankfurt (Oder) 06.jpg|Pilaster and capital, Frankfurt, Germany Image:Puerta de la colegiata - Lerma.jpg|''Puerta de la colegiata'', Lerma, Spain Image:Badami Gomateshvara cave4.jpg|Badami Cave Temples,India Category:Architectural elements Category:Columns and entablaturebe:Пілястра bg:Пиластър ca:Pilastra cs:Pilastr da:Pilaster de:Pilaster et:Pilaster es:Pilastra eu:Pilastra fr:Pilastre it:Parasta he:פילסטר ka:პილასტრი lv:Pilastrs lt:Piliastras mk:Пиластер nl:Pilaster ja:付柱 no:Pilaster pl:Pilaster pt:Pilastra ru:Пилястра fi:Pilasteri sv:Pilaster tr:Pilaster