 | Topographic map = | Type= Lava dome | Age=&lt;10,000 years | Last eruption=ca. 5760 BC | First ascent = Unknown | Easiest route=road  Puy-de-Dôme () is a large lava dome and one of the youngest volcanoes in the Chaîne des Puys region of Massif Central in south-central France. Curiously, this chain of volcanoes including numerous cinder cones, lava domes, and maars is located far from the edge of any tectonic plate. Puy-de-Dôme is located approximately 10&nbsp;km away from Clermont-Ferrand. The Puy-de-Dôme département is named after the volcano.HistoryIn pre-Christian Europe, Puy-de-Dôme served as an assembly place for spiritual ceremonies. Temples were built at the summit, including a Gallo-Roman temple dedicated to the God Mercury, the ruins of which were discovered in 1873.In 1648, Florin Périer, at the urging of Blaise Pascal, proved Evangelista Torricelli's theory that barometric observations were caused by the weight of air by measuring the height of a column of mercury at three elevations on Puy-de-Dôme.In 1875, a physics laboratory was built at the summit. Since 1956, a TDF (Télédiffusion de France) antenna is also located there.On the top of the mountain, there is a transmitter for FM and TV.CyclingIn more recent times, Puy-de-Dôme has served as an occasional stage finish in the Tour de France. It was here in 1964 that Raymond Poulidor battled with Jacques Anquetil in one of the race's most famous moments, racing side by side up almost the entire climb. Also on this peak in 1975 Eddy Merckx was punched in the stomach by a spectator.The road is only open for cyclists during very limited periods (when other vehicles are prohibited). In 2006 this is 7-9am on Wednesdays and Sundays between 1 May and 30 September.TourismThe Puy de Dôme is one of the most visited sites in the Auvergne region, attracting nearly 500 000 visitors a year. It is a well-known centre for parascending. The summit offers expansive views of the Chaîne des Puys and Clermont-Ferrand. A restaurant and shops are available, as well as a visitor centre giving information on the history and geology of the area.Tourists have a choice of two ways to reach the top. A pedestrian path (Le sentier des muletiers), formerly a Roman way leads to the Temple of Mercury. Alternatively, there is a 6km/4mile motor road with a gradient of 12%. At busy times, private cars must be parked at the bottom and the ascent made by bus.ReferencesGlobal Volcanism Program: Chaîne des PuysExternal linksClimbbybike.com All cycling information on and profile to climb the Puy-de-DômeCategory:Volcanoes of France Category:Mountains of France Category:Puy-de-Dôme Category:Climbs in cycle racing Category:Lava domes Category:Massif Centralbg:Пюи дьо Дом (планина) cs:Puy de Dôme (hora) da:Puy de Dôme de:Puy de Dôme es:Puy de Dôme eu:Puy de Dôme sumendia fr:Puy de Dôme id:Puy-de-Dôme (pegunungan) it:Puy de Dôme (vulcano) nl:Puy de Dôme nn:Puy de Dôme oc:Puèi Domat (mont) pl:Puy de Dôme sh:Puy-de-Dôme (planina)