 Scouting for Boys: A Handbook for Instruction in Good Citizenship is the first book on the Scout Movement, published in 1908. It was written and illustrated by Robert Baden-Powell, its founder. It is based on his boyhood experiences, his experience with the Mafeking Cadet Corps during the Second Boer War at the Siege of Mafeking, and on his experimental camp on Brownsea Island, England. It is the fourth bestselling book of the 20th century.HistoryScouting for Boys (1908) is Baden-Powell's rewrite of his earlier military books Reconnaissance and Scouting (1884) and Aids to Scouting for NCOs and Men (1899). These books were military manuals used by the British Army to train scouts. At Mafeking, Baden-Powell recruited and trained boys aged 12-15 as postmen, messengers, and later to carry the wounded, to free men for fighting. Upon return to England, following the Boer War, Baden-Powell learned some British schools had been using his books to teach observation and deduction. He decided to revise his military publications into a book for boys. Several friends supported Baden-Powell, including Sir William Alexander Smith, founder of the Boys' Brigade, and Cyril Arthur Pearson, who owned newspapers and printing presses. In 1906 and 1907 Baden-Powell spent a lot of time writing Scouting for Boys and advancing his ideas about the Boy Scouts Scheme. These were tested in a camp on Brownsea Island in the summer of 1907, where Pearson's literary editor Percy Everett assisted.Scouting for Boys was published in six fortnightly instalments of approximately 70 pages each, from January to March 1908. They were produced by Pearson's printer, Horace Cox. These six publications were a success, and as planned were issued in book form on 1 May 1908. Scouting for Boys has been translated into many languages. In 1948, the book was still selling 50 000 copies annually. Only in 1967 was a decline noted by the publisher, and in the last decades of the 20th century, even by the Scout movement, the book came to be seen as a period curiosity. It is claimed to be the fourth bestselling book of the 20th century. A realistic estimate is that  approximately 4 million copies of the UK edition have been sold. Extrapolating this to 87 different language editions worldwide, historic world sales of Scouting for Boys can be estimated at 100 to 150 millions copies since 1908.EditionsContentsAll parts of the six installments in 1908 have the title Scouting for Boys in big capitals. With a listed price of '4d. net', it was affordable to many boys, many of whom would have been at work, as the school-leaving age was 14. Authorship is attributed: 'by B-P (Lieut. Gen. Baden Powell C.B.)' (sic).Most chapters start with hints to instructors. All chapters have campfire yarns, appealing to boys, most contain sections with games and activities, and they close with recommendations for books to read.Part I. ScoutcraftThe first instalment contains pages 3 to 70. It provides the basic details of scouting.1Kim]]", Books2Summary of scout's course of instruction, the Elsdon murder3Boy scouts' organization, the scout's oath, Scout's salute and secret sign, scout's uniform, scout's war songs, patrol signs4scout law, scouting games, scout's play PocahontasPart II. Tracking, WoodcraftThe second part covers pages 71 to 142. It contains chapter II on tracking and chapter III on woodcraft, each with three camp fire yarns.5Observation of "sign", Noticing sign, Details of people, Signs round a dead body, Details in the country, Using your eyes, Books to read on observation, hints to instructors, Games in observation6Spooring, Men's tracks, hints to spooring, hints to instructors, Tracking games, Books to read on spooring7Reading "sign" or deduction, Instances of deduction, Hints to instructors, Example of practice in deduction, Books to read8Stalking, How to hide yourself, How to teach stalking, Games in stalking, Books on stalking9Animals, Birds, Reptiles and fishes, Insects, Hints for instructor, Honours, Lion hunting, Books to read, Play10Plants, Trees, Hints for instructor, Games, Books to read, PlayPart III. Camp life, CampaigningThe third part covers pages 143 to 206. It contains chapter IV on camp life, and chapter V on campaigning.11Pioneering, Hut building, Felling trees, How to make bridges, Self measures, the scout is always a handy-man, Hints to instructors, Books to read12Camping, Comfort in camp, Camp fires-the right way of making them, Tidiness, Hints to instructors13Camp life, Cooking, Bread making, Cattle-driving and slaughtering, Cleanliness, Water, Hints to instructors, Camp games, Book to read14Life in the open, Exploration, Boat cruising, Watermanship, Mountaineering, Patrolling, Night work, Weather wisdom, Hints to instructors, Games, Books on life in the open15Pathfinding, Judging heights and distances, Finding the North, Hints to instructors, Games in pathfinding, Books to read16Information by signal, Signalling, Whistle and flag signals, Practices in signalling, Hints to instructors, Marks towards badges of honour in campaigning, Dispatch running, DisplayPart IV. Endurance and chivalryThe fourth part covers pages 207 to 270. It contains chapter VI Endurance for scouts, or How to be strong, and chapter VII Chivalry of the knights.17How to grow strong: A scout's endurance, Exercises and their object, The nose, Ears, Eyes, Teeth, Hints to instructors, Games to develop strength, Books to read18Health-giving habits: How to keep healthy, Keep yourself clean, Smoking, Drinking, Early rising, Smile, Practices, Books to read19Prevention of disease: Camp doctoring, Microbes and how to fight them, Food, Clothing, Practices, Games, Books to read20Chivalry of the knights: Chivalry to others, St. George, The knights' code, Unselfishness, Self-sacrifice, Kindness, Tips, Friendliness, Politeness, Courtesy to women, Practices, Hints to instructors, Games, Play, Books to read21Self-discipline: To instructors, Honour, Obedience and discipline, Courage, Good temper and cheeriness, Books to read, Practice in self-discipline, Games22Self-improvement:To instructors, Duty to God, Thrift, How to make money, How to get on, Practices in self-improvement, Information on professions, etc, Books to read, (in part V:) Sobriety, Practise observation, Fortitude, Notes to instructors,Part V. Saving life, and patriotismThe fifth part covers pages 271 to 334. It contains chapter VIII Saving life, or how to deal with accidents, and chapter IX Patriotism, or our duties as citizens.23Be prepared for accidents: Hints to instructors, The knights of St. John, Life-saving medals, Practice for life saving24Accidents and how to deal with them: Panics, Rescue from fire, Directions, Rescue from drowning, Rescue from runaway horses, Miscellaneous accidents, Mad dog, Practices in life-saving, Books to read25Helping others: Rendering first aid, Snake bite, Grit in the eye, Suicides, How to carry a patient, How to practice, Games, Books to read26Our empire: Hints to instructors, Our empire, How our empire grew, how the empire must be held, Hints to instructors, Books to read, Display27Citizenship: Scout's duty as a citizen, Duties as citizen-soldier, Marksmanship, Helping police, Hints to instructors, Games, Books to read28United we stand, divided we fall: Hints to instructors, Our Navy and Army, Our flag, Our government, Our King, Books to readPart VI. Notes for instructors, Scouting games, practices, and displaysThe sixth part covers pages 335 to 398. It contains Notes to instructors and Scouting games, practices , and displays&nbsp;&nbsp;Play the game: don't look on, The British Empire wants your help, Fall of the Roman Empire was due to bad citizenship, Bad citizenship is becoming apparent in this country to-day, Football, Our future citizens, Peace-scouting, Militarism, How to teach scouting, Authorities who might find the scheme useful, Hints to instructors, Be Prepared, Clubroom, The handbook, Course of instruction, Method of instruction, Imagination, Responsibility to juniors, Discipline, Religion, Continence, Hints to instructors, Forming character, Conclusion, Books on the subject&nbsp;Notes to instructors, Scoutcraft, Tracking, Woodcraft, Camp life, Books to read, Campaigning and pathfinding, Endurance and health, Chivalry, Saving life and first aid, Patriotism, Play the game!, The storming of Delhi, The maple leaf for ever, The song of Australia, God bless the Prince of Wales, God save the King, Sample programme of athletics sports, Non-scouting games, Basket ball, Books to read&nbsp;Suggestions for a display&nbsp;True scouting stories&nbsp;CorrectionsCopyright StatusThe British Scout Association owns the copyright to Scouting for Boys today. The book will enter the Public Domain in 2011, 70 years after the death of its author on 8 January 1941. Until then, it may only be reproduced after permission is granted from the Scout Association headquarters (other than for copyright exceptions in specific countries, such as fair use). The Boy Scouts of America have been granted a special copyright license by Baden-Powell himself for their Boy Scout Handbook, written during the BSA's formal founding in 1910.See also Other notable books related to Scouting by Baden-Powell include:The Wolf Cub's Handbook, for Wolf Cubs (Cub Scouts)Rovering to Success, for RoversAids to Scoutmastership, for ScoutmastersOther notable books related to Scouting by other authors include:Boy Scout Handbook (Boy Scouts of America)Baden-Powell (book)ReferencesExternal links[http://www.thedump.scoutscan.com/s4b.html Full on-line text of Scouting for Boys by The Dump, resources for Scouting]Category:Scouting Category:1908 booksde:Scouting for Boys es:Escultismo para muchachos fr:Éclaireurs it:Scautismo per ragazzi hu:Cserkészet fiúknak nl:Scouting for Boys pl:Skauting dla chłopców pt:Escotismo para Rapazes simple:Scouting for Boys fi:Partiopojan kirja sv:Scouting for Boys vi:Hướng đạo cho nam