  |birth_place = Chicago, IL |citizenship = United States |fields = Neurobiology |workplaces = Columbia University |alma_mater = Harvard University |known_for = his work on GFP |awards = Nobel Prize in Chemistry (2008) |signature =  Martin Chalfie (born 1947) is an American scientist. He holds a Ph.D. in neurobiology from Harvard University and is professor of Biological Sciences at Columbia University.The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 2008 He shares the 2008 Nobel Prize in Chemistry along with Osamu Shimomura and Roger Y. Tsien "for the discovery and development of the green fluorescent protein, GFP".Website of the Nobel Prize committee.BiographyChalfie grew up in Chicago. He matriculated at Harvard University in 1965, intending to be a math major, but he switched to biochemistry because it combined his interests in chemistry, math, and biology. He spent the summer after his junior year working in the laboratory of Klaus Weber at Harvard, but "It was so disheartening to completely fail that I decided I shouldn’t be in biology."&lt;/ref&gt; As a result, in his senior year, he completed his major and took courses in law, theater, and Russian literature. After graduating in 1969, he worked at a variety of temporary jobs, such as selling dresses for his parents' dress manufacturing business in Chicago. In 1970 he taught at Hamden Hall Country Day School in Hamden, Connecticut. In the summer of 1971, his research at the laboratory of Jose Zadunaisky at Yale University resulted in his first publication. With revived confidence, he returned to Harvard for graduate studies under Robert Perlman, and received his Ph.D. in 1977.He conducted his postdoctoral research at the LMB with Sidney Brenner and John Sulston, and the three published a paper in 1985 on "The Neural Circuit for Touch Sensitivity in C. Elegans". [http://www.jneurosci.org/cgi/reprint/5/4/956.pdf "The Neural Circuit for Touch Sensitivity in C. Elegans"] Chalfie then left the LMB in 1982 to join the faculty of Columbia University in the department of biological sciences and continued to study C. elegans touch mutants.He married Tulle Hazelrigg. She later joined him on the faculty of Columbia University.Chalfie was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 2004.He slept through the phone call from the Nobel Prize Committee.  When he woke up, he knew the prize would have been announced already, and went to the Nobel Prize web site to discover who the winners were. He was surprised to see his own name.Scientific workChalfie's lab uses the nematode C. elegans to investigate aspects of nerve cell development and function. The wealth of developmental, anatomical, genetic, and molecular information available for C. elegans provides a powerful and multifaceted approach to these studies.He has published over 200 papers of which at least 16 have over 100 citations.Google ScholarHe traces his work on Green flourescent protein to a 1988 seminar from Paul Brehm about bioluminescent organisms: this led to some cruicial experiments in 1992 by his graduate student Ghia Euschirken and to their paper "Green fluorescent protein as a marker for gene expression" (Science 2635148: 802-5, 11 February 1994), which is among the 20 most-cited papers in the field of Molecular Biology & Genetics.In-cites.comReferencesExternal linksChalfie's lab WebsiteAglow in the Dark: The Revolutionary Science of Biofluorescence - Popular science book describing history and discovery of GFP and includes a biography of Martin Chalfie Category:1947 births Category:Living people Category:People from Chicago, Illinois Category:Harvard University alumni Category:Columbia University faculty Category:American scientists Category:Neurobiologists Category:Nobel laureates in Chemistry Category:American Jewsar:مارتن تشالفي ca:Martin Chalfie cs:Martin Chalfie da:Martin Chalfie de:Martin Chalfie es:Martin Chalfie fa:مارتین کلایف fr:Martin Chalfie ko:마틴 챌피 id:Martin Chalfie it:Martin Chalfie la:Martinus Chalfie nl:Martin Chalfie ja:マーティン・チャルフィー ka:მარტინ შალფი oc:Martin Chalfie pl:Martin Chalfie pt:Martin Chalfie ro:Martin Chalfie ru:Чалфи, Мартин sr:Мартин Чалфи fi:Martin Chalfie sv:Martin Chalfie zh:马丁·查尔菲