 |author = Jacques Tondra and Georges Kibanghi |lyrics_date = |composer = Jean Royer and Joseph Spadilière |music_date = |adopted = 1959 |until = |sound = |sound_title = La Congolaise (The Congolese) is the national anthem of the Republic of the Congo. The anthem was adopted upon independence in 1959, replaced in 1969 by Les Trois Glorieuses, but reinstated in 1991. The lyrics are written by Jacques Tondra and Georges Kibanghi, and the music is composed by Jean Royer and Joseph SpadilièreLa Semaine africaine 378, 29th November 1959, cited by Silvère NGOUNDOS IDOURAH and Nicole DOCKES-LALLEMENT, Justice et pouvoir au Congo-Brazzaville, 1958-1992, la confusion des rôles, L'Harmattan, Paris, 2001, ISBN 274751319X, 9782747513197.French lyricsEn ce jour le soleil se lève  Et notre Congo resplendit.  Une longue nuit s'achève,  Un grand bonheur a surgi.  Chantons tous avec ivresse  le chant de la liberté.CHORUS: Congolais, debout fièrement partout, Proclamons l'union de notre nation, Oublions ce qui nous divise, soyons plus unis que jamais, Vivons pour notre devise: Unité, travail, progrès! Vivons pour notre devise: Unité, travail, progrès!Des forêts jusqu'à la savanne, Des savannes jusqu'à la mer, Un seul peuple, une seule âme, Un seul coer, ardent et fier, Luttons tous, tant que nous sommes, Pour notre vieux pays noir.CHORUSEt s'il nous faut mourir, en somme Qu'importe puisque nos enfants, Partout, pourront dire comme On triomphe en combattant, Et dans le moindre village Chantent sous nos trois couleurs.CHORUSEnglish translationOn this day the sun rises And our Congo stands resplendent. A long night is ended, a great happiness has come. Let us all, with wild joyfulness, sing The song of freedom.CHORUS: Arise, Congolese, proud every man, Proclaim the unity of our nation. Let us forget what divides us And become more united than ever. Let us live our motto: Unity, work, progress. Let us live our motto: Unity, work, progress.From the forest to the bush, From the bush to the ocean, One people, one soul, One heart, ardent and proud. Let us all fight, every one of us, For our black country.CHORUSAnd if we have to die, What does it really matter? Our children Everywhere will be able to say how Triumph comes through battle, And in the smallest village Sing beneath our three colours.CHORUSReferencesExternal linksMIDI FileFeik Category:National anthems Category:Republic of the Congo music Category:National symbols of the Republic of the Congoast:La congolaise da:La Congolaise de:La Congolaise es:La Congolaise fr:La Congolaise jv:La Congolaise ln:La Congolaise ms:La Congolaise nl:La Congolaise pl:Hymn Konga pt:Hino nacional da República do Congo sl:La Congolaise fi:La Congolaise