 |place of birth=Cleveland, Ohio |dead=alive |residence= Cleveland, Ohio |occupation=attorney |spouse=Janet Voinovich |children=George VoinovichBetsy VoinovichPeter VoinovichMolly Voinovich |alma_mater=Ohio University  Ohio State University |religion=Roman Catholic George Victor Voinovich (born July 15, 1936) is the senior United States Senator from the state of Ohio, and a member of the Republican Party. Previously, he served as the 65th Governor of Ohio from 1991 to 1998, and as the 54th mayor of Cleveland from 1980 to 1989.Personal lifeBorn in Cleveland, Ohio, his father was a Serb from Croatia (from Kordun http://www.hic.hr/dom/235/dom06.htm), and he had a Slovenian mother. Voinovich earned a bachelor of arts degree in government from Ohio University in 1958 and a law degree from The Ohio State University in 1961. Voinovich is a member of Phi Kappa Tau fraternity. He married his wife, Janet, in 1962. They had four children: George, Betsy, Peter, and Molly, as well as seven grandchildren. Molly, their youngest child, was killed in an auto accident at age 9.Early careerVoinovich began his political career in 1963 as an assistant attorney general of Ohio. He then served as a member of the Ohio House of Representatives from 1967 to 1971. From 1971 to 1976, he served as county auditor of Cuyahoga County, Ohio. In 1975, he made an unsuccessful run for the Republican nomination for mayor of Cleveland against incumbent Mayor Ralph J. Perk. From 1977 to 1978, he served as a member of the Cuyahoga County Board of Commissioners. In 1978, Voinovich was elected lieutenant governor on the ticket with James A. Rhodes (the first Ohio lieutenant governor not to be elected separately from the governor).Cleveland Mayoralty, 1980–19891979 Cleveland mayoral electionBy 1979, elections in Cleveland had become nonpartisan, and with then-Mayor Dennis J. Kucinich (D) about to enter a tough re-election campaign, Voinovich began to consider running for mayor again. Twice, Voinovich suggested his intent to stand for office but then changed his mind. Finally, on July 26, he made "one of the most difficult decisions in his life." He resigned from the office of lieutenant governor and entered the primary election.Aside from Kucinich, Voinovich's other opponents included state Senator Charles Butts and city council majority leader Basil Russo. As the election drew closer, The Plain Dealer announced its endorsement of Voinovich. Voter turnout in the primary was greater than that of 1977 race among Perk, Kucinich, and Edward F. Feighan (when Voinovich had endorsed Kucinich). In the 1979 nonpartisan primary election, Voinovich led with 47,000 votes to 36,000 for Kucinich. Russo (who obtained 21,000) and Butts (with 19,000) did not qualify for the general election. The biggest surprise was Voinovich's showing in predominantly African American wards, where he was expected to finish last. He trailed only Butts, with Kucinich last.Then, a few days after the primary, Voinovich's nine-year-old daughter, Molly was struck by a van and killed on October 8. This tragic event brought the campaign to a virtual halt and made it difficult for Kucinich to attack his opponent. Still, he challenged Voinovich to a series of debates in Cleveland neighborhoods. However, the former lieutenant governor declined these invitations saying they would be unproductive. Finally, however, a debate between Voinovich and Kucinich was held at the City Club on November 3. Following the debate, Voinovich went on to win the election with 94,541 votes to Kucinich's 73,755.After his victory in 1979, Voinovich won re-election in 1981 against Ohio state Rep. Patrick Sweeney (107,472 to 32,940) and in 1985 against councilman Gary Kucinich, Dennis' brother (82,840 to 32,185).&quot;The Comeback City&quot;Voinovich was considered a rather low-key politician, a description he adopted himself. Once elected, he announced that he would meet immediately with Ohio Governor James Rhodes to solicit the state government's help in clearing up the city's debts. He negotiated a debt repayment schedule. In October 1980, eight local banks, with the state guaranteeing the loans, lent Cleveland $36.2 million, allowing the city to emerge from default. Despite this, the city's economy continued to decline and federal funding was cut. Two weeks earlier, voters turned down another 0.5 percent income tax increase. The opposition was led by Kucinich, who had been keeping a low profile since his defeat in the 1979 election. Voinovich said he would resubmit the tax issue on the February ballot to avoid facing a deficit in 1981. This time the voters approved the tax increase.By the time Voinovich was elected, Cleveland had long been the butt of late night comedians' jokes. When Boston mayor Kevin White remarked that the city's finances had gone from "Camelot to Cleveland," Voinovich protested. White responded by saying that Boston had survived facetious remarks from a wide range of jokesters, from Mark Twain to Johnny Carson. "I am sure Cleveland will also," he said.The defensive attitude projected from the Cleveland media and Voinovich began to make inhabitants of other cities look twice at Cleveland. The Smythe-Cramer Co. especially helped restore the city's former glory by running a series of ads with photographs of downtown Cleveland captioned "Take Another Look. It's Cleveland!" In May, The Plain Dealer sent its Sunday subscribers bumper stickers saying, "New York's the Big Apple, but Cleveland's a Plum." The paper also passed out thousands of "Cleveland's a Plum" buttons and also ran a huge picture of Publisher Thomas Vail, with a smiling Voinovich beside him, throwing out the first plum at a Yankees-Indians game. Sportscaster Howard Cosell hailed the city during a baseball game and Voinovich subsequently presented him with a key to the city. A survey showed 65 percent of the residents of Greater Cleveland were very satisfied with their life in the city and even 57 percent claimed to be very satisfied, even in 1978, the year of default. Also, a national poll rated Detroit as the city with the worst image, with New York City second. Cleveland was fifth-worst.The New Cleveland Campaign, a promotion agency formed in 1978, began sending out news releases bragging about Cleveland's virtues and proudly circulating reprints whenever it got a favorable story. Unfortunately, to show how much the "new" Cleveland had improved, it had to stress how bad the old Cleveland was. In particular, it stressed on the city's 1978 default, even though New York City defaulted on 300 times as much in 1975 (which they referred to as a "moratorium.").ribbon cutting ceremony in 1981.]] The restoration campaign reached its peak in October with the society magazine Town and Country. "Cleveland's Come-Around" explained how "businessmen, lawyers and concerned citizens" rescued the city from "the petulant, pugnacious Dennis Kucinich." It called Voinovich's Operation Improvement Task Force under E. Mandell de Windt "the most significant undertaking in Cleveland since Moses Cleaveland stepped ashore on the bank of the Cuyahoga River in 1786." It also enticed its readers of Lake Erie and its "beautiful and exciting year-round sailing."So confident was Voinovich, that during election season, he even attracted presidential candidates Jimmy Carter and Ronald Reagan to debate in Cleveland. "Cleveland is making a comeback," Time Magazine declared at the close of 1980, "During the past year, convention business has flourished, school desegregation has proceeded peacefully, and a modest construction boom has begun. . . Most impressive of all, the city dug itself out of default."Downtown development and other improvementsIn order to accomplish more, Voinovich felt that the terms for mayor and Cleveland City Council ought to be extended. He offered a referendum to voters to extend them from two to four years and additionally asked voters to approve cutting down the number of council members from 33 to 21 in order to help ease the city's strained economy. They approved both requests.Throughout the Voinovich years, neighborhoods began to see some improvement starting with the Lexington Village housing project, $149 million in Urban Development Action Grants, and $3 billion of construction underway or completed. In particular, the neighborhoods of Hough and Fairfax, then two of Cleveland's worst east side neighborhoods, began to see new houses built and lesser amount of criminal activity. Voinovich also quietly moved to reconcile the warring groups of the 1970s. He made peace with business leaders and even posed with them in photographs that ran in New Cleveland Campaign ads in business magazines, captioned with the Voinovich slogan: "Together, we can do it." He refined the neighborhood groups, which, with the breakdown of the Democratic Party, became the most potent political force in the city. He also extended his hand to unions as well, in particular the Teamsters truck union.As mayor, Voinovich oversaw a huge scale urban renaissance downtown. Sohio (purchased by BP America in 1987), Ohio Bell, and Eaton Corporation all built new offices downtown (most notably the BP Building). Brothers Richard and David Jacobs astonished the city by rescuing its troubled Indians franchise, ultimately turning it around for the better. The two also improved the desolate area located by the Erieview Tower and turned it into the glass-roofed Galleria at Erieview. Voinovich also attracted the Key Bank company, which eventually led to the construction of Key Tower, the largest skyscraper in Cleveland and the 15th largest in the nation. In addition, the National Civic League awarded Cleveland the All-America City Award three times, in 1982, 1984, and 1986, in addition to its first, won in 1950.Voinovich and Municipal LightOne of the key issues surrounding the previous Kucinich administration was canceling the sale of Cleveland Municipal Light (today Cleveland Public Power). Kucinich's insistence on saving it from being absorbed into the Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company (CEI) led the business community to force Cleveland into default. Voinovich's successful negotiations reversed this action when he first assumed office as mayor. However, Voinovich's pro-business attitude did not change CEI's position on the issue, as they persisted in making efforts to buy out Muni Light and pressuring Voinovich into giving them the right to do so. Voinovich resisted. Early in his tenure, he arranged for capital improvements to strengthen the operation of Muni Light and by 1982, it was able to compete with CEI. He asserted that the company was making attempts to cripple Muni Light by lobbying council against much-needed legislation. "We still have a battle going on," Voinovich said, "They CEI are as dedicated as ever to laying away the Municipal Light system."In 1984, however, Voinovich's pro-Muni attitude began to change, when his administration began negotiations for CEI. The deal would have allowed CEI to take over all of Muni's private customers in exchange for various benefits including a cash payment of $40 million. Furthermore, CEI threatened to move its more than 1,000 employees to the suburbs, instead of placing them in a major downtown development, if Voinovich did not agree to sell. CEI put additional pressure on the mayor to sell when it widely publicized its advantages in a full-page newspaper advertisement and letters to all city residents. Perhaps fearing a Kucinich comeback and after stating that he had been "leaned on by everyone in this town," Voinovich cancelled the sale once and for all. CEI itself was eventually acquired and became part of FirstEnergy.GovernorshipIn 1990, Voinovich was nominated by the Republicans to replace Governor Richard F. Celeste, a Democrat who was barred from running for a third consecutive term. In that race, Voinovich defeated Anthony J. Celebrezze Jr., a victory that made Voinovich the first Serb American ever to hold office as governor; no others were elected until Rod Blagojevich won the governorship of Illinois in 2002. In 1994, Voinovich was re-elected to the governorship, defeating Democrat Robert L. Burch Jr. in a massive landslide. He won 72% of the vote.Voinovich's tenure as governor saw Ohio's unemployment rate fall to a 25-year low. The state created more than 500,000 new jobs. Under Voinovich, Ohio was ranked #1 in the nation by Site Selection Magazine for new and expanding business facilities.Beyond the Governor's officeIn 1996, Voinovich hoped to be chosen by then U.S. Senator Robert J. Dole to be the Republican nominee for U.S. vice president. Dole, however, chose Jack Kemp instead. In 1998, barred from running for a third term as governor, Voinovich set his eyes on the U.S. Senate seat being vacated by long-time incumbent Democrat John Glenn. Voinovich, who had run for senate unsuccessfully in 1988, won the race, defeating Democrat Mary O. Boyle.Senate careerParticularly in his first years in the Senate, Voinovich was opposed to lowering tax rates. He frequently joined Democrats on tax issues and in 2000 was the only Republican in Congress to vote against a bill providing for relief from the "marriage penalty." While he did vote for the tax bills of 2001 and 2003 and has voted in favor of eliminating the estate tax, Voinovich is still more hesitant to support cutting taxes than most in his party.On gun politics, Voinovich generally supports gun control legislation, which has earned him criticism from the NRA.In November 2004, in his bid for re-election, Voinovich defeated the Democratic nominee, Ohio state senator Eric Fingerhut, whose candidacy was overshadowed by persistent speculation that TV talk show host Jerry Springer might enter the race.Voinovich gained national attention at the Senate Foreign Relations Committee's confirmation hearing of John R. Bolton, nominee for U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations, when he commented "I don't feel comfortable voting today on Mr. John Bolton." As a result, the committee recessed without a vote and thus stalled the nomination. Voinovich later allowed the committee to send the nomination to the full Senate, but forced the committee to do so without a recommendation. Democrats refused to invoke cloture and end debate on the Bolton nomination – the first time, Voinovich voted to end debate, the second time, he joined Democrats in voting to extend debate and urged Bush to choose another nominee. Voinovich has since amended his views and determined that Bolton did a "good job" as UN Ambassador, praising him by saying "I spend a lot of time with John on the phone. I think he is really working very constructively to move forward."http://news.yahoo.com/s/nm/20060206/pl_nm/un_bolton_voinovich_dc_1&lt;/ref&gt;Voinovich has a reputation of being overcome by emotion in public situations and has choked up on several occasions during important speeches, the latest example being during his May 25, 2005, address in the Senate pleading with fellow Republicans to reject Bolton's nomination.Voinovich Gets Emotional Over UN Appointment - Video - WEWS Cleveland&lt;!--Bot-generated title--&gt; Voinovich lost his composure as he explained that he ran for re-election in order to try to secure a stable future for his children and grandchildren. Voinovich also got choked up when the Cleveland Browns announced their intent to move to Baltimore as the Ravens. In 1999, Voinovich said that President Clinton's signing of the "Ed-Flex" bill had brought tears of joy to his eyes.In an interview, Voinovich has expressed his intent on running for re-election as Senator.George Voinovich Interview - Video - WEWS Cleveland&lt;!--Bot-generated title--&gt;With the Senate debating lobbying reform following the Jack Abramoff scandal, Voinovich has expressed opposition to the creation of an independent "public integrity" office to police members of Congress because he believes that the Senate Ethics Committee already handles that job. "Why create another entity that will do the same thing we are already doing and build up a big staff?" asked Voinovich. He stated that his committee will "get into the Abramoff situation" after the Justice Department finishes investigating the lobbyist's claims of bribing members of Congress.Voinovich backed most of the reforms that were discussed by the Senate in the spring of 2006, and was particularly pleased with a section that would require his committee to publicly divulge its activities at the end of the year without revealing who was investigated unless they were sanctioned.  Still, Voinovich worried that his committee's confidential nature makes the public wonder whether it's doing anything at all. "We do a tremendous amount of work in terms of following up on anything we feel would bring dishonor to the Senate," he said. "It bothers me that I am working my tail off in this committee, spending hours and hours, and I can't talk about what I'm doing."On March 17, Voinovich brought issues regarding the Great Lakes to the Senate, stating that failure to promptly fix the Lakes' environmental problems could lead to a catastrophe as severe as Hurricane Katrina.In January 2007, Senator Voinovich expressed concern to Condoleezza Rice that the President's plan to increase troop levels in Iraq would not be effective. The Senator did not share President George W. Bush's optimism. "At this stage of the game, I don't think it's going to happen." As a moderate Republican, the Senator was viewed as one of few that could potentially influence the President. Five months later, Senator Voinovich requested to Bush in a five-page letter that the US begin pulling troops from Iraq and asking that the Iraqis start taking care of their own territory, calling for a "comprehensive plan for our country's gradual military disengagement from Iraq."Another GOP Senator Urges Pullout, Anne Flaherty Associated Press June 26, 20072 GOP senators break with Bush on Iraq, Norm N. Levey Los Angeles Times June 27, 2007In May 2007, Voinovich and fellow Senator Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio) introduced a bipartisan bill giving states the opportunity to receive grant money for hiring and training highly qualified early childhood educators.http://www.portclintonnewsherald.com/apps/pbcs.dll/article?AID=/20070524/UPDATES01/70524006&lt;/ref&gt; This ref seems to be broken.--On April 9, 2007, Voinovich broke from party lines and stated at a hearing on the war in Iraq: "We've kind of bankrupted this country the war spending. We're in a recession...and God knows how long it's going to last."http://www.boston.com/news/politics/politicalintelligence/2008/04/biden_treads_li.html, Susan Milligan Boston Globe April 8, 2007When Michigan became the eighth state to accede to the Great Lakes Compact on July 9, 2008, Voinovich is expected to be one of the lead legislators in supporting the interstate compact's passage in Congress.All Things Considered (Michigan Radio edition). National Public Radio. WUOM, Ann Arbor-Detroit, 9 July 2008.Committee AssignmentsCommittee on Environment and Public WorksSubcommittee on Clean Air and Nuclear Safety (Ranking Member)Subcommittee on Transportation Safety, Infrastructure Security, and Water QualitySubcommittee on Transportation and InfrastructureCommittee on Foreign RelationsSubcommittee on European AffairsSubcommittee on International Operations and Organizations, Democracy and Human RightsSubcommittee on Near East and South and Central Asian AffairsCommittee on Homeland Security and Governmental AffairsAd Hoc Subcommittee on State, Local, and Private Sector Preparedness and IntegrationSubcommittee on Federal Financial Management, Government Information, Federal Services, and International SecuritySubcommittee on Oversight of Government Management, the Federal Workforce, and the District of Columbia (Ranking Member)Electoral historyMayor of Cleveland]]: Results 1979-1985YearOfficeDemocratVotesPctRepublicanVotesPct3rd PartyPartyVotesPct1979MayorDennis J. Kucinich?44%George Voinovich?56%1981MayorPatrick Sweeney?23%George Voinovich?77%1985MayorGary Kucinich?28%George Voinovich?72%1988]]Senate2,480,08857%George Voinovich1,872,71643%*1990]]Governor1,539,41644%1,938,10356%*1994]]Governor835,84925%2,401,57272%Billy InmonIndependent108,7453%*1998]]Senate1,482,05444%1,922,08756%*2004]]Senate1,961,17136%3,464,35664%*state=Ohioclass=3start=1999before=John Glennalongside=Mike DeWine, Sherrod BrownNAME=Voinovich, George VictorALTERNATIVE NAMES=Vojinović, George Victor (Serbo-Croatian)SHORT DESCRIPTION=Ohio politicianDATE OF BIRTH=July 15, 1936PLACE OF BIRTH=Cleveland, OhioDATE OF DEATH=livingPLACE OF DEATH=