 | birthplace = New York, New York, U.S. | occupation = Film director and producer | baftaawards = Best Film1995 The Usual Suspects | awards = Saturn Award for Best Direction2001 X-Men2006 Superman Returns Bryan Singer (born September 17, 1965) is an American film director and film producer. Singer won critical acclaim for his work on The Usual Suspects, and is especially popular among fans of the sci-fi and comic book genres, for his work on the first two X-Men films and Superman Returns.Early lifeSinger was born in New York City, and was adopted by Grace (née Sinden), an environmental activist, and Norbert Dave Singer, a corporate executive.Bryan Singer Biography (1965-)&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; He grew up in a Jewish-American household in Princeton Junction, New Jersey. He attended West Windsor-Plainsboro High School South (formerly just West Windsor-Plainsboro High School), graduating in 1984.Miller, Lynn. &quot;More West Windsor Filmmaking Stars on the Horizon&quot;, West Windsor & Plainsboro News, December 15, 2007. Accessed December 15, 2007. "Two West Windsor-Plainsboro High School graduates are following in the footsteps of two other filmmakers from West Windsor, Bryan Singer and Christopher McQuarrie. Singer, Class of 1984, and McQuarrie, Class of 1986, have recently joined together for the filming of “Valkyrie,” a controversial film about Colonel Claus Schenk von Stauffenberg, the German Army officer who tried to do away with Hitler during World War II." For college, Singer studied filmmaking for two years at New York's School of Visual Arts and later transferred to the USC School of Cinematic Arts in Los Angeles.Weinraub, Bernard. &quot;FILM; An Unusual Choice for the Role of Studio Superhero&quot;, The New York Times, July 9, 2000. Accessed November 27, 2007. "As a child, Mr. Singer grew up in Princeton Junction, N.J. His father, Norbert Singer, is a businessman and his mother, Grace, is an environmental activist and former state environmental official.... Mr. Singer attended the School of Visual Arts in Manhattan for two years, and then transferred to the University of Southern California." Actors Lori and Marc Singer are his cousins. He is Jewish and openly gay, and has said that his life experiences of growing up as a minority influenced his movies.Work''Lion's Den''After graduating, Singer directed a short film called Lion's Den. With Lion's Den, he involved a number of friends, including actor Ethan Hawke whom he knew from his childhood in New Jersey and editor John Ottman who he had met while working on a friend's short film..''Public Access''After a screening of Lion's Den, Singer was approached by someone who knew of a Japanese company that funded low-budget films. Singer wrote the concept with high school friend Christopher McQuarrie, and fellow USC alumn Michael Feit Dougan wrote the first draft in ten days about a supposedly idyllic small town. Ottman again served as editor but this time also composed the score for the film. At the 1993 Sundance Film Festival the film was named as co-winner of the Grand Jury Prize.''The Usual Suspects''While attending the 1993 Sundance Film Festival, Singer and McQuarrie began discussing an idea that McQuarrie had for a story where "five criminals meet in a police line-up". The film, The Usual Suspects, won a number of awards including the 1995 BAFTA Award for Best Film and Saturn Award for Best Action/Adventure/Thriller Film. Writer McQuarrie won the Academy Award for Writing Original Screenplay and the BAFTA Award for Best Screenplay, composer/editor Ottman won the BAFTA Award for Best Editing and the Saturn Award for Best Music and actor Kevin Spacey won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor.''Apt Pupil''In 1998, Singer directed Apt Pupil, from a screenplay written by Brandon Boyce, another of his friends. The story, adapted from a Stephen King novella of the same name (collected in the book Different Seasons), tells of a young boy who develops a morbid fascination with a Nazi war criminal.''X-Men''Singer was initially approached by 20th Century Fox to direct X-Men after directing The Usual Suspects, but not being a fan of comics and being unaware of the characters, Singer turned them down. However his friend, Tom DeSanto, a big fan of the comics and partner in his production company Bad Hat Harry Productions, eventually persuaded Singer to reconsider and, after reading the comics and becoming familiar with the characters, Singer signed on to direct. Rejecting all the scripts and storylines that were developed over a decade of failed production attempts, Singer developed the story for the film with DeSanto in a week and then worked on the script with writers Ed Solomon, Christopher McQuarrie, Joss Whedon, and finally David Hayter (who had started out as Singer's driver). Only Hayter received onscreen credit for writing the film. Singer won the 2000 Saturn Award for Best Direction for X-Men.''Confessions of a Dangerous Mind''In early 2001, Singer was planning to direct Confessions of a Dangerous Mind with Johnny Depp in the lead role, from Charlie Kaufman's script based on the Chuck Barris book of the same name. However financial troubles delayed production and Singer had to move on. The film was later directed by George Clooney for Miramax Films with Sam Rockwell in the lead role. Singer has said that he was "very impressed" by Clooney's debut as a director, and the film itself.''Battlestar Galactica''In late 2001, Singer was planning to help DeSanto produce a new Battlestar Galactica television series for Studios USA (now NBC Universal Television Studio) and the FOX network. Singer was scheduled to direct the mini-series which would have served as a backdoor pilot for a potential series. Speaking to Variety in February 2001, Singer said he was "confident that the Galactica brand is a sleeping giant. It was a show I watched during its initial run, from the pilot to the final episode. The essence and the brand name is quite potent in a climate where there's a great deficit of sci-fi programming." Despite his enthusiasm, production delays caused by the September 11, 2001 attacks meant Singer had to drop out due to his commitment to direct X-Men 2. FOX then lost interest in Galactica and Studios USA took the project to the Sci Fi Channel and a different production team. This resulted in the new Battlestar Galactica 2003 mini-series and 2004 television series.''X2''In June 2002 filming began on X2 in Canada with Singer again directing, this time from a screenplay written by David Hayter, Dan Harris and Michael Dougherty. In 2004, X2 was nominated for the Hugo Award for Best Dramatic Presentation, Long Form, but lost to Peter Jackson's The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King.''Star Trek Nemesis''In 2002, having learned that Singer was a lifelong Star Trek fan, Patrick Stewart arranged for Singer to visit the set of Star Trek Nemesis and appear in the finished film as a Starfleet officer on the bridge of the ''Enterprise''.''House''On November 16 2004, a new medical drama debuted on FOX called House, with Singer attached as an executive producer. He also directed the pilot and the third episode, then appeared in a brief cameo as himself in the twelfth episode.''King Kong''As an elaborate joke, during the final days of principal photography, Singer was called into New Zealand by director Peter Jackson to "direct" some of the last few shots of his remake of King Kong, the reason being that Jackson was exhausted from weeks of work and needed to sleep, but also needed to assure the Universal executives that progress was in fact being made. Part of these proceedings were shown on Peter Jackson's King Kong Production Diaries, as well as on the Bryan Singer's Production Journals.''Superman Returns''In mid-2004, Singer was in negotiations to direct X-Men: The Last Stand for Fox. Fox and Singer could not meet an agreement and, after an extended period of nothing happening, Singer was offered the chance to direct the new Superman film, which was ready to go. On July 19, 2004, Variety reported that Singer had signed on to direct Superman Returns for Warner Bros. In retaliation, Fox terminated their production deal with Bad Hat Harry Productions, Singer's production company. Superman Returns was filmed in Australia in 2005, and was released on June 28, 2006. Singer claims that though he had not read the comics, he had always admired and identified with the character, citing the fact that he and Superman are both orphans. He instead based Returns on his love of the 1978 film made by Richard Donner.''Valkyrie''Before embarking on the Superman sequel, Singer openly discussed helming a smaller project going back to the days of thrillers The Usual Suspects and Apt Pupil. In late 2006, screenwriter Christopher McQuarrie presented to Singer a story that took place in World War II. In the following months, the two collaborated on the project, an original thriller that would be a multi-character ensemble piece. In March 2007, the duo brought the project directly to United Artists partners Paula Wagner and Tom Cruise, who immediately agreed to finance the film. The script is based on the actual events of German generals plotting to assassinate Adolf Hitler during World War II. Singer invited Tom Cruise to take the lead role, which Cruise accepted. Filming began on July 19, 2007 in Berlin.''Superman'': Man of SteelUpon finishing Valkyrie at the end of 2007, Singer was scheduled to jump directly into the upcoming Superman sequel, which was scheduled to begin filming around March 2008. Attending the 2007 Saturn Awards along with Superman Returns writers Michael Dougherty, Dan Harris and producer Gil Adler, Singer confirmed that the story had been locked down, and the first draft would be completed near the end of 2007. Among the plans for the sequel include more action sequences, an alien villain, and Singer's promise to "go all Wrath of Khan on it". As of September 2008 Warner Brothers has decided to revamp the Superman franchise and it remains unclear if Singer or Routh will stay attached to it.Production companyHis production company, Bad Hat Harry Productions, produces House and works in television, film, and video game media. It is named after a line from Jaws, one of his favorite films. The line, "That's some bad hat, Harry", is heard over the company's end credit animation.ReferencesExternal linksShort The Movie Reporter video interview with Singer (2005)Tribute.ca Director Bio: Bryan Singer Category:American adoptees Category:American film directors Category:American Jews Category:BAFTA winners (people) Category:Jewish American film directors Category:LGBT directors Category:LGBT Jews Category:LGBT people from the United States Category:People from Mercer County, New Jersey Category:Saturn Award winners Category:University of Southern California alumni Category:School of Visual Arts alumni Category:Alumni by university or college in New Yorkbn:ব্রায়ান সিংগার de:Bryan Singer es:Bryan Singer fr:Bryan Singer it:Bryan Singer he:בריאן סינגר hu:Bryan Singer nl:Bryan Singer ja:ブライアン・シンガー no:Bryan Singer pl:Bryan Singer pt:Bryan Singer ru:Сингер, Брайан sq:Bryan Singer fi:Bryan Singer tr:Bryan Singer