 Deutsches Institut für Normung e.V. (DIN; in English, the German Institute for Standardization) is the German national organization for standardization and is that country's ISO member body.DIN and mini-DIN connectors, as well as DIN rails are several examples of older DIN standards that are today used around the world. However, there are currently around thirty thousand DIN Standards, covering almost all fields of technology. One of the earliest, and surely the most well-known, is DIN 476, the standard that introduced the A-series paper sizes in 1922. This was later adopted as international standard ISO 216 in 1975.DIN is a registered association (e.V.), founded in 1917, originally as Normenausschuss der deutschen Industrie (NADI, Standardisation Committee of German Industry). In 1926 the NADI was renamed Deutscher Normenausschuss (DNA, German Standardisation Committee) in order to indicate that standardization now covered many fields, not just industrial products. In 1975 the DNA was finally renamed DIN. Its headquarters is in Berlin. Since 1975 it has been recognized by the German government as the national standards body and represents German interests at international and European level.The acronym DIN is often wrongly expanded as Deutsche Industrienorm (German industry standard). This is largely due to the historic origin of the DIN as NADI. The NADI indeed published their standards as DI-Norm (Deutsche Industrienorm, German industry standard). E.g. the first published standard in 1918 was 'DI-Norm 1' (about taper pins). Many people still wrongly associate DIN as an abbreviation for the old DI-Norm naming of standards.DIN standard designationThe designation of a DIN standard shows its origin (# denotes a number):DIN # is used for German standards with primarily domestic significance or designed as a first step toward international status. E DIN # is a draft standard and DIN V # is a preliminary standard.DIN EN # is used for the German edition of European standards.DIN ISO # is used for the German edition of ISO standards. DIN EN ISO # is used if the standard has also been adopted as a European standard.Example of DIN standardsSee also the list of DIN standards.DIN 476: international paper sizes (now ISO 216 or DIN EN ISO 216)DIN 946: Determination of coefficient of friction of bolt/nut assemblies under specified conditions.DIN 1451: typeface used by German railways and on traffic signsDIN 31635: transliteration of the Arabic languageDIN 72552: electric terminal numbers in automobilesSee alsoStandard data modelList of standards topicsList of electronics topicsFilm speedAustrian Standards InstituteExternal linksDIN home page (bilingual)DIN home page (English version)* Category:ISO member bodies Category:Standards organizationsar:مقاييس صناعية ألمانية bs:Deutsches Institut für Normung bg:ДИН ca:DIN cs:DIN de:Deutsches Institut für Normung es:DIN fr:Deutsches Institut für Normung gl:DIN it:Deutsches Institut für Normung nl:Deutsches Institut für Normung ja:DIN no:DIN pl:Deutsches Institut für Normung pt:Deutsches Institut für Normung ru:DIN simple:Deutsches Institut für Normung sk:Deutsches Institut für Normung sl:Nemški inštitut za standardizacijo sr:DIN (стандард) fi:DIN sv:Deutsches Institut für Normung