 Gothenburg, Sweden | Genre = DanceElectronica | Years_active = 1997-present | Label = Ministry of Sound | Associated_acts = | URL = www.crazyfroghits.com   Crazy Frog is a character used in the marketing of a ring tone based on The Weird Annoying Thing, a computer animation created by Erik Wernquist. Marketed by the ringtone provider Jamba!, the animation was originally created to accompany a sound effect produced by Daniel Malmedahl while attempting to imitate the sound of a two-stroke moped engine. The Crazy Frog spawned a worldwide hit single with a remix of "Axel F", which reached the number one spot in the United Kingdom, Turkey, New Zealand, Australia and most of Europe. The subsequent album Crazy Frog Presents Crazy Hits and second single "Popcorn" also enjoyed worldwide chart success, and a second album entitled Crazy Frog Presents More Crazy Hits was released in 2006. The Crazy Frog has also spawned a range of merchandise and toys, and two video games.History In 1997, 17-year-old student Daniel Malmedahl recorded himself impersonating the noises produced by internal combustion engines. He posted this on a website and caught the attention of a Swedish television researcher, who convinced Daniel to perform the sound live on air. After the annoying thing debuted on television, recordings of his performance began appearing on peer to peer file sharing networks and various websites under the filename "2TAKTARE.MP3" ("Tvåtaktare" is Swedish for "Two stroker").The sound effect was quickly included in Flash animations that spread virally among Internet users becoming an Internet meme. The most notable example was the Insanity TestInsanity Test, which challenged test subjects to keep a straight face while staring at a still photograph of Rubens Barrichello in a Ferrari Formula 1 car as the sound effect was played.In late 2005, Malmedahl's fellow Swede Erik Wernquist encountered the sound effect and was inspired to create the 3D animation "The Annoying Thing" to accompany it. Erik used the LightWave 3D modeling application to produce the animation and posted it on his website. The animation was a popular attraction at Erik's website, but the sound was credited to "Anonymous". Eventually, word reached Daniel that his impressions had been used in a now well-known animation. He contacted Erik, apparently giving an impromptu performance to confirm his claims. Erik was convinced, and gave credit to Daniel for his creation. It was broadcast for the first time on two Belgian commercials for Ringtone Europe and Jamster België (now both merged into Jamba!) in mid-2004.RingtoneIn 2004, the German-based Jamba! group (ultimately owned by VeriSign who then sold 51% of the group to Fox in 2006) licensed the animation and sound for distribution as a mobile phone ringtone. Jamba! (trading under names such as Jamster!, RingtoneKing, and others) accompanied the release of the ringtone with a barrage of advertising. It soon became the most recognisable commercially available ringtone in the United Kingdom. Jamba! has earned an estimated £14 million from the ringtone News and Views from The Times and Sunday Times | Times Online&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;, making it the most commercially successful ringtone of all time. Jamba! has also produced other successful animated creature ringtones, including Sweety the Chick and Nessie the Dragon, and produced other ringtones featuring the Crazy Frog including Crazy DJ Frog. There is also a series of Crazy Frog World Tour tones featuring the Frog performing his usual vocalisations against backgrounds of various countries' musical styles. These include the sitar-based "Crazy Frog India", reggae-flavoured "Crazy Frog Jamaica" and John Barnes-esque "Crazy Frog Australian Rock".ControversyThe Crazy Frog was broadcast for the first time on Belgian Television in mid-2004.In February 2005, viewers submitted a number of complaints to the United Kingdom's Advertising Standards Authority (ASA) regarding Jamsta!'s advertising campaign, complaining that Crazy Frog appeared to have genitalia. Some parents complained that this made inappropriate viewing for children, claiming that the commercial had prompted embarrassing questions. The response to this by Jamster's Marketing Manager, Robert Swift was that his only complaint was that 'the Crazy Frog is better endowed than I am'Crazy Frog can keep his ding-ding di-di-ding ASA says - Brand Republic Login - Brand Republic&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;. There were also complaints regarding the frequency with which the advertisement appeared on television, reportedly up to twice an hour across most of the day Scotsman.com News&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;, with some channels showing it more than once per commercial break.The ASA did not uphold the complaints, pointing out that the advert was already classified as inappropriate for airing during children's television programmes as it contained a premium rate telephone number, and that it was the broadcasters' decision how often an advertisement should be shown. Jamsta! voluntarily censored the character's genital area in later broadcasts of its advertisements. The full adjudication (PDF) is available online.http://www.asa.org.uk/NR/rdonlyres/ECE03B9D-119D-4150-8F22-48ADADD9AC09/0/ASA_Broadcast_Rulings_2Feb05.pdf&lt;/ref&gt;. Similar action occurred in Australia, with similar resultshttp://www.advertisingstandardsbureau.com.au/PDF/05_18.pdf .In April 2005, television viewers complained about misleading advertisements produced by Jamba!, trading as Jamster! and RingtoneKing. Viewers felt that it was not made sufficiently clear that they were subscribing to a service, rather than paying a one-time fee for their ringtone. The complaints were upheld; the full adjudication (PDF) is available online.&quot;Broadcast rulings 6 April 05.doc&quot;&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;. It costs £3 a week to subscribe to Jamster!'s service. The complaints consisted mainly of parents, who felt like their children were being misled. They felt that Jamster! was exploiting their children in order for them to make greater profits.In May 2005, viewers inundated the ASA with new complaints regarding the continuous airing of the latest Crazy Frog advertisements. The intensity of the advertising was unprecedented in British television history. According to The Guardian, Jamster bought 73,716 spots across all TV channels in May alone &mdash; an average of nearly 2,378 slots daily &mdash; at a cost of about £8 million, just under half of which was spent on ITV. 87% of the population saw the Crazy Frog adverts an average of 26 times, 15% of the adverts appeared twice during the same advertising break and 66% were in consecutive ad breaks. An estimated 10% of the population saw the advert more than 60 times. This led to many members of the population finding the crazy frog, as its original name suggests, immensely irritating.(source: Media Guardian, 20 June 2005)As the authority had already adjudicated on the matter and confirmed the matter was not within its remit, the unusual step was taken of adding a notice to their online and telephone complaints system informing viewers that Jamster!-related complaints should be directed towards the broadcaster or the regulator, OfcomFrog drives viewers crazy | The Sun |HomePage|News&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;.On 21 September 2005, the ASA ruled that the Crazy Frog, along with other Jamba ringtone advertisements, must be shown after 9pm. This adjudication was revised on 25 January 2006, maintaining the 'upheld' decision but revising the wording of one of the points. http://www.asa.org.uk/NR/rdonlyres/F3CC87DF-2F2A-4754-9C40-2EC23F0EC54C/0/Broadcastreport25Jan06.pdf(pdf)] ASA stamps on Crazy Frog TV ads | The Register&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;.In March 2005, anti-virus vendors discovered the W32/Crog.worm computer virus (a contraction of Crazy Frog), which spreads through file-sharing networks and MSN Messenger, exploiting the Crazy Frog's notoriety with a promise of an animation depicting his demiseW32/Crog.worm&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;W32.Serflog.A - Symantec.com&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;.Musical historywhich caused the controversy about Crazy Frog are visible.]]  They produced "Axel F" (a remix of the 1980s Harold Faltermeyer song), which was released on May 23, 2005 and became one of the most successful singles of the year 2005. "Axel F" debuted at number one in the UKCrazy Frog ringtone outsells Coldplay | Technology | The Guardian&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;, remaining there for four weeks. The song was then knocked off the charts by rapper 2Pac's single 'Ghetto Gospel'. Similar success took place in Australia and many parts of Europe, and the song remained on the charts for many months in various countries worldwide. However, the song apparently failed to catch on as well in the US and Japan, where it reached #50 and #48 respectively. The "Axel F" music video was produced by Kaktus Film and Erik Wernquist, and centers on the pursuit of the Crazy Frog by a bounty hunter. He reprises his role as pursuer of the Crazy Frog in all subsequent videos.Popcorn (a remix of the Hot Butter song) was released on August 22 and premiered with a choreographed cheerleader performance on Top of the Pops. It also reached #16 in Australia and Top 20 in much of Europe, in many cases while "Axel F" was still charting.Riding on the popularity of these initial single releases, an album entitled Crazy Frog Presents Crazy Hits was released on July 25. It contained several Frog remixes of existing songs like "Pump Up the Jam" and the Pink Panther theme, as well as several original tracks such as "In the 80's" and "Dirty Frog". It reached #5 in the UK, #8 in Australia and topped the charts in New Zealand. Surprisingly the album performed much better in the US than the "Axel F" single, reaching #19.A special Christmas edition of Crazy Hits with numerous holiday-themed bonus tracks was released in November, backed with a double A-side single release of "Jingle Bells/U Can't Touch This". The single peaked at #4 in Australia and #5 in the UK.In May 2006 the Crazy Frog contributed two tracks to a British compilation album entitled Football Crazy released to coincide with the 2006 World Cup &mdash; "Ole Ole Ole (Do the Froggy Wave)" and "Na Na Na, Hey Hey". A second album entitled Crazy Frog Presents More Crazy Hits was released in June 2006, continuing in the musical vein of the first release with Frog versions of songs such as "Ice Ice Baby", "I Will Survive" and "I'm Too Sexy". The second single release is "We Are the Champions (Ding a Dang Dong)", again a World Cup-oriented track perhaps drawing inspiration from the earlier Football Crazy songs.A single release with a yet unverified song source is"Last Christmas"Unofficial releasesOn February 17, 2005, a group of producers naming themselves Pondlife announced the release of an unofficial single featuring the Crazy Frog sound entitled "Ring Ding Ding". This release was backed by DJs Wes Butters, Trevor Jordan and Daryl Denham along with studio-owner Maurice Cheetham.On March 19, 2005, Pondlife held open auditions to find a live action Crazy Frog to star in their accompanying music videoHome | Gusto&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;. "Ring Ding Ding" was released on 6 June 2005 and reached #11 on the UK Singles Chart, two weeks after the Axel F version had charted.An anti-Crazy Frog single named "Kill The Frog" by Frog Must Die was released in the UK on June 20. Since the song did not appear in the top 250 of the UK Singles Chart, it is unclear whether the single was postponed, or simply failed to sell enough copies. As the name explains, this CD is about killing the Crazy Frog.On June 27, 2005, a dancehall reggae song by L.O.C. sampling the Crazy Frog sound titled "Ring Ding Ding (Frog)" was released in the UK. It reached #58 on the UK pop charts, and higher on reggae charts.Other incarnationsOn July 1, 2005, UK-based publishers Digital Jesters announced that they had acquired the rights to the video game licence for the Crazy Frog. Crazy Frog Racer (featuring The Annoying Thing), released in December 2005, is a racing game.The Mitsuoka Orochi was a vehicle designated as the vehicular version of the crazy frog, it has a striking resemblance to a frog.A string of Crazy Frog merchandise was released in the UK Crazy Frog - Ringtones, Music, Posters, Games, T-Shirts and more! - www.crazyfrog.co.uk&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;, under the name "The Annoying Thing" due to copyright and licensing restrictions. These items were picked as big sellers for Christmas 2005, particularly the Annoying Thing Singing Plush which plays the ringtone when squeezed. Other products available include an electronic game, a desktop nodder, keyring, backpack, lunchbox and air freshener. However, there are bootlegged versions of the Crazy Frog plush. The only way to tell the difference is the goggles; the imitations have big padded goggles whereas the originals have small, rounded open goggles. The crazy frog also has a "Whac-A-Mole" style arcade game, in which you get points for whacking "The Annoying Thing" and lose points for whacking the red robot thing.The German production company The League of Good People is in talks with broadcasters about a TV series based on Crazy FrogC21Media:&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;, and video clips of Crazy Frog can be seen on. The second version of Crazy Frog games is now out and is called 'Crazy Frog Racer 2'. It is priced at £14.99 with retailers like play.com selling it for £9.99. However, it was extremely negatively received by critics. The game was released on PlayStation2 and PC. www.crazyfrogracer2.com is the official website to the second game.The Crazy Frog toured Australia in late 2005, beginning in Perth on December 4 and continuing through other major capital cities. He made appearances at numerous shopping centres and major hospitals around the country.http://www.undercover.com.au/news/2005/dec05/20051202_crazyfrog.htmlCurrently, there are plans to make The Annoying Thing into an animated feature film. Animation World Magazine&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;DiscographyAlbums:Crazy Frog Presents Crazy Hits (2005)Crazy Frog Presents Crazy Hits: Crazy Xmas Edition (2005)Crazy Frog Presents More Crazy Hits (2006)Crazy Frog Presents More Crazy Hits (Ultimate Edition) (2006)Singles:YearTitleChart positionsAlbumU.S.UKCANAUSNZIRLGERFRABEL2005Axel F]]" 50 1 2 1 1 1 3 1 1Crazy Frog Presents Crazy HitsPopcorn]]" - 12 - 11 1 14 35 1 11"Jingle Bells/U Can't Touch This" - 5 - 4 1 11 - 5 22006We Are the Champions (Ding a Dang Dong)]]" - 11 - 13 - 23 13 1 10Crazy Frog Presents More Crazy HitsLast Christmas]]" - 16 - 30 19 16 16 19 202007"Crazy Frog in the House" - - - - - - - 12 38DVD:Crazy Frog Presents Crazy Video HitsCrazy Frog Presents Crazy Video Hits is a DVD that includes all the character's music videos. The North American version of the DVD includes an altered version of the Axel F video with the Frog's genitalia -- visible in the original version -- removed.Track listing:Axel FPopcornWe Are The Champions (Ding a Dang Dong)Crazy Frog In The House (Knightrider)Clip Of Pump Up the JamClip of Copa BananaClip of Jingle Bells / Last ChristmasThe Making of the Crazy Frog VideosSee alsoRingtoneMobile phoneLightWave The program that the creator made this character with.The Crazy Frog has been parodied on the British children's television programme, Ministry of Mayhem.The Crazy Frog has also been parodied by the BBC Television Show Dead Ringers, where the frog was replaced with David Frost.I Am Your Gummy Bear, a similar phenomenon, as a fictional gummy bear.Schnappi, a similar phenomenon, as a fictional crocodile.Mickael Turtle, a similar phenomenon, as a fictional turtle.ReferencesExternal links [http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/magazine/4210407.stm BBC article: The Crazy Frog sound? That's my fault.] Includes an interview with the creator of the sound, Daniel Malmedahl.[http://www.timesonline.co.uk/article/0,,2095-1512482_1,00.html The Times: Crazy Frog turns into a real prince.]ASA: A Frog's Tale that spawned viewer outrage.Erik Wernquist interviewNaked insanityVideo at Cartoon NetworkCrazy Frog StoryCategory:1997 introductions Category:Advertising characters Category:Fictional frogs and toads Category:Internet memes Category:Jamba! Category:Web humorar:الضفدع المجنون ca:Crazy Frog da:Crazy Frog de:Crazy Frog es:Crazy Frog eo:Crazy Frog fa:قورباغه دیوانه fr:Crazy Frog id:Crazy Frog it:Crazy Frog he:הצפרדע המשוגעת nl:Crazy Frog pl:Crazy Frog pt:Crazy Frog simple:Crazy Frog fi:Crazy Frog sv:Crazy Frog