   and Daphne'' by Antonio Pollaiuolo, ca. 1470-80 (National Gallery, London)]] According to Greek myth, Apollo chased the nymph Daphne (Greek: Δάφνη, meaning "laurel"), daughter either of Peneus and Creusa in Thessaly,Hyginus Fabulae 203. or of the river Ladon in Arcadia.Pausanias viii.20.1; Johannes Tzetzes Ad Lycophron 6; Philostratus, Life of Apollonius of Tyana i. 16. The pursuit of a local nymph by an Olympian god, part of the archaic adjustment of religious cult in Greece, was given an arch aneccdotal turn in Ovid's Metamorphoses,Ovid, Metamorphoses i. 452. where the god's infatuation was caused by an arrow from Eros, who wanted to make Apollo pay for making fun of his archery skills and to demonstrate the power of love's arrow. Ovid expands the pursuit into a series of speeches. Daphne prayed for help either to the river god Peneus or to Gaia, and was transformed into a laurel (Laurus nobilis): "a heavy numbness seized her limbs, thin bark closed over her breast, her hair turned into leaves, her arms into branches, her feet so swift a moment ago stuck fast in slow-growing roots, her face was lost in the canopy. Only her shining beauty was left."Translation by A.S. Kline, 2000. The laurel became sacred to Apollo, and crowned the victors at the Pythian Games.Pausanias, x.7.8.. Most artistic impressions of the myth focus on the moment of transformation. , ca 1744-45 (Louvre).]] A version of the attempt on Daphne's sworn virginity that has been less familiar since the Renaissance was narrated by the Hellenistic poet Parthenius, in his Erotica Pathemata, "The Sorrows of Love". Parthenius' tale was known to Pausanias, who recounted it in his Description of Greece (second century CE).Pausanias viii.20.2. In this, Daphne is a mortal girl fond of hunting and determined to remain a virgin; she is pursued by the lad Leucippos, who assumes girl's clothes in order to join her band of huntresses. He is so successful in gaining her innocent affection, that Apollo is jealous and puts it into the girl's mind to stop to bathe in the river Ladon; there, as all strip naked, the ruse is revealed, as in the myth of Callisto, and the huntresses plunge their spears into Leucippos. At this moment Apollo's attention was engaged, and he began his pursuit.NotesExternal linksTheoi Project: DaphneApollo and Daphne - statue by Gian Lorenzo BerniniCategory:Greek mythology Category:Dryads Category:Nymphs Category:Trees in mythology Category:Shapeshiftingar:دافني br:Dafne bg:Дафне ca:Dafne (nimfa) cs:Dafné de:Daphne (Mythologie) el:Δάφνη (νύμφη) es:Dafne eo:Dafna eu:Dafne fr:Daphné (nymphe) ko:다프네 hr:Dafna (mitologija) it:Dafne (mitologia) he:דפנה (מיתולוגיה) lt:Dafnė hu:Daphné nl:Daphne (mythologie) ja:ダプネー pl:Dafne (mitologia) pt:Dafne ro:Daphne ru:Дафна simple:Daphne (mythology) sr:Дафне sh:Dafna (mitologija) fi:Dafne sv:Dafne tl:Daphne tr:Dafni uk:Дафна