4435|12055|11140|11230|0fuel_capacity =related =designer = Mercedes-Benz M120 V12 engine and could reach speeds of . The engine produces  at 5200 rpm and  at 3800 rpm.Just five of the original 6.0&nbsp;L Zondas were built, though it was still available in 2002 when the C12 S debuted. One was used for crash testing, while another was a demonstrator and show car. The rest were delivered to customers over the next three years, priced at US$320,000.The C12 could accelerate to  in 4.2 seconds and hit  in 8.2 seconds. Acceleration through the quarter mile was 12.1 seconds at . Lateral acceleration on the skidpad was 0.93 g, and the car could brake from  in .2000 Zonda C12 SThe C12 S uses a  AMG–tuned version of the engine producing . It can accelerate to  in 3.7 secs, to  in 7.5 secs and complete the quarter mile in 11.3 secs at . Lateral acceleration on the skidpad is 1.18 g (11.6 m/s²), the car is  lighter than the normal Zonda C12, it can reach a top speed of , and carries a price tag of US$350,000.The C12 S features an elongated nose, flaps at the rear for improved aerodynamics, and new light clusters and exhausts. Only fifteen 7.0&nbsp;L C12 S cars were produced.2002 Zonda C12 S 7.3The  C12 S 7.3 of 2002 used one of the largest V12 engines ever made. The engine was designed and manufactured by Mercedes-Benz AMG, where traction control was added to handle the  and  that this engine produces. The 7.3 can accelerate from 0 to  in less than 3.5 seconds and has a top speed of  if the aerodynamics are set up properly.A roadster version is also built, with production limited by the company to 40 examples. As of 2005, nine roadsters had been built. According to Road &amp; Track magazine, three more C12 S 7.3 cars had been built as of June, 2005, but it is unclear whether they were roadsters or coupes. Motor Trend reported in their January 2006 issue that 60 Zondas of all types had been built.2003 Zonda GRDevelopment of the Zonda GR started in December, 2002. At this stage the Zonda was nearly four years old, but had yet to be entered in major motorsports. Tom Weickardt, owner of American Viperacing, Toine Hezemans, owner of Carsport Holland, and Paul Kumpen, owner of GLPK, created a new company, Carsport Zonda, to build a racing version. They secured exclusive rights to develop, build and sell competition Zondas from Horacio Pagani, and the first GR was completed at Carsport's facility in Modena within months.The Zonda GR is based on the Zonda C12 S. It was built on the same carbon fiber chassis, with tube frames in front and back. The bodywork was modified to include front and rear diffusers and louvers for improved aerodynamics. The car was  wide, in accordance with the regulations of the FIA and ACO. The car's weight was reduced to , and a new suspension was designed. New wheels and brakes were also specified. The engine was equipped with an enlarged radiator, and the engine and gearbox also have new oil coolers.The performance of the Zonda GR is well beyond that of the stock car. The car sprints from 0 to  in 3.3 seconds and the engine produces around  at 5800 rpm and  of torque at 4300 rpm with a redline increased to 7500 rpm. The added power and improved aerodynamics allow the car to hit .Its price is $325000.C12 S MonzaThe Zonda C12 S Monza debuted at the 2004 Paris Motor Show as a track-day version of the Zonda for private use. Borrowing its appearance cues from the Zonda GR, the Monza included many features which could also be applied to other Zonda models. A dry sump engine tuned to 637&nbsp;PS (more than 440&nbsp;kW) was used, and the cooling was improved. Modified aerodynamics, including a different wing and front diffuser, allowed greater speed, as did optimized gearing. The car was lighter, with polycarbonate side windows, and an unmuffled exhaust is fitted. The revised interior includes different pedals, steering wheel, and seats, as well as a reinforced roll cage. Larger brakes and a stiffer suspension also improve performance. Finally, an external fire extinguisher is included for safety.2005 Zonda F (C12 F)The Zonda C12 F debuted at the 2005 Geneva Motor Show. It is the most extensive reengineering of the Pagani car yet, though it shares much with its predecessors including the 7.3&nbsp;L V12. Power is increased to  with a special clubsport model producing . The company promises a 3.5 second sprint to , a top speed over  and it will be the queen in braking from 300 km/h to 0 (186&nbsp;mph to 0). The Zonda F clubsport has a power to weight ratio of 528 bhp/ton (384 W/kg). An Enzo Ferrari, comparatively, has a power to weight ratio of 483 bhp/ton (356 W/kg).The top speed can be further tweaked by adjusting the aerodynamic settings.  is the car's top speed on the setting for the best handling which provides the most down force but also has the highest drag coefficient. If the aerodynamic settings were adjusted the top speed would be a bit higher. This also seems to be the reason that when EVO Magazine attempted the Pagani Zonda S's top speed on the Autobahn, that they were only able to get the car to , as opposed to its claimed top speed of . It would make sense that if the car was set up for maximum downforce then its top speed would drop to around . Company representatives at Pagani's factory backed up this claim. However, the EVO article claimed that aerodynamic parts, specifically ones which created drag were in fact removed during the run, bringing Pagani's claims into question.The Zonda F Clubsport held the record for the fastest lap by any production car around the Nürburgring, lapping the  Nordschleife in 7 minutes 27.82 seconds, beating the previous record holder, the Porsche Carrera GT.EVO - Pagani sets 'Ring record It was since surpassed by the 2009 Corvette ZR1 on 7 June 2008, with a time of 7 minutes 26.4 seconds.Corvette ZR1 Laps Nurburgring In 7:26.4&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Production of the Zonda F will be limited to 25 cars, still not US compatible. The next model (codenamed C9), due to be unveiled in 2009, will be fully EPA/DOT compatible.The Zonda F, named after F1 driver Juan Manuel Fangio, comes with an extra head light and different fog lights at the sides, new bodywork (revised front end, new rear spoiler, more aerodynamic vents all around) that improves the cars aerodynamics and different side mirrors. Further enhancements over the 'S' centre around optional carbon/ceramic brakes developed in conjunction with Brembo, magnesium wheels, inconel titanium exhaust system, hydroformed aluminum intake plenum and a redesigned 'Z preg' weave in the crash structure to improve rigidity and reduce weight.Zonda Roadster FThe Zonda Roadster F debuted at the 2006 Geneva show. It is similar to the coupe, but with a removable carbon fibre roof and canvas side curtains weighing just . Production of the Roadster F is suggested at 25 units.The Roadster F is able to maintain chassis rigidity without any gain in curb weight by eschewing conventional thinking by not strengthening the sills - a process which would have needed more than  of reinforcement. Pagani instead uses racing car thinking, materials and construction techniques, strengthening the firewall structure of the chassis tub together with billet alloy braces that connect the points where the roof rails would have joined. The windscreen is also strengthened for safety reasons. These techniques enable the Roadster to have virtually the same weight as the coupe, .Further information and photosZonda R ClubsportThe R Clubsport was debuted at the Geneva Motor Show 2007, still using the 6.0 litre V12 sourced from AMG by Mercedes-Benz. The R Clubsport's competition lies with track-biased cars such as the Ferrari FXX and Maserati MC12 rather than the original Zonda's road competitors. It is thought, therefore, that like the FXX and some models of the MC12, the R CS will not be road-homologated. Since it is likely that the car will be ineligible under FIA regulations for almost any form of organized racing, the car is essentially relegated to privateer racing in nonstandard series and the owner's private track time, much like customer versions of the MC12. For comparison the FXX, which has its own race-series, is also neither road nor race homologated, and is not even delivered to the owner, instead being 'made available' by Ferrari at specified events. The Pagani-designed race-models are also far more proven and targeted racecars, so it is unlikely that even heavily-modified R CSs will compete in formal racing.Despite sharing much of the Zonda's shape, the R CS is almost entirely new, sharing only 10% of the Zonda F's components. It has been obliquely suggested by Horacio Pagani that this car is a testbed chassis for certain components of the Zonda's replacement (in the same vein as the Ferrari 288 GTO Evoluzione and the successive F40) and that the R CS accurately reflects some of the Zonda's successor's features.Chassis The central carbon chassis incorporates a roll cage and a rubber racing fuel cell with 4 fuel pumps and quick refuel filler cap, similar to GT race cars. The wheelbase has been increased by  to increase stability. The front and rear subframes are brand-new, built to accommodate new suspension geometry, and produced in Avional. The slick-shod wheels are new forged-magnesium centre-lock models, which in conjunction with on-board pneumatic airjacks (again, like the FXX) allow rapid change of the entire wheel assemblies.The car senses, displays and logs information about the amount of downforce that is generated at each wheel at all times. It is thought that this system will enable owners to adjust set-up according to track conditions and to improve their cornering technique.Bodywork In addition to the wheelbase increase (47 mm), overall length has increased by  and track by . The bodywork and aerodynamics have been altered to offer maximum downforce, featuring a longer front bonnet with flaps, a closed underbody and a new rear overhang with adjustable rear wing and race-derived diffuser. These are intended to translate into increased aerodynamic efficiency and downforce for maximum cornering speed. It is also noted that the car's new rear bodywork is minimal in the extreme, being composed mostly of vent. This is thought to be symptomatic of the need to keep the engine cool enough, even under hard track use. Again, this is similar to the gutted bodywork of the Ferrari Evoluzione.Engine Output has increased to  at 8000 rpm and  of torque. A lightweight carbon fibre high performance intake system, racing multiple disc sintered clutch and Formula 1-style exhaust system, hydroformed in Inconel 625 and ceramic coated for optimal heat dissipation, have been added. The engine is combined with a 6-speed transverse-mounted manual sequential synchronized gearbox.Interior The car's interior is spartan reflecting the car's racetrack aspirations and intended home, and features bespoke seats, customized to the driver to offer maximum support. As before, the Digitek instrumentation provides essential information and the sophisticated telemetry allows a variety of sensors to monitor numerous aspects of the car.Cost The R Clubsport, as a final, specialized run-out model, is expected to cost in excess of US$1.2 million.Zonda CinqueThe final Zonda in its current form is a combination of the Zonda F and Zonda R to create a road going track day car.Built at the repeated request of the Hong Kong based Pagani dealer, only 5 will be built at the cost of £1million with an expected delivery date of June 2009 for all 5 cars.The differences over other road going Zondas are a new clutchless sequential gearchange resulting in shifts now taking less than 100 milliseconds dropping 0-62mph down to 3.4 seconds, the Cinque (pronounced cheen-kway) also has a revised carbon fibre which uses titanium to increase strength, suspension will make use of magnesium and titanium components and the engines power has been increased to , revised bodywork now creates 750 kg of downforce at 300kph (186mph), the Cinque is capable of generating 1.45g of cornering force.Technical Specifications:Mercedes Benz AMG engine, ,ECU, Traction control , ABS by BoschInconel/titanium exhaust system coated with ceramicSuspensions in magnesium and titaniumCima sequential gearbox (6 speed), robotized by Automac enginneringAPP monolitic wheels forged in aluminium and magnesium. Size: front 9x19 - rear 12,5x20Pirelli PZero tyres. Size: front 255/35/19 rear 335/30/20Toora Racing Seats in carbon fiber, with leather coverCarbon Fiber steering wheelBrembo brakes in carbo-ceramic self ventilated with hydraulic servo brake, Size: front 380x34 mm, monolitic 6 piston caliper; rear 380x34 mm, monolitic 4 piston caliper.Dry weight 1210 kgWeight distribution in driving condition: 47% front, 53% rearAcceleration: 0-100 Km in 3.4 sec., 0-200 in 9.6 sec.Braking: 100-0 km in 2.1 sec., 200-0 km 4.3 sec.Maximum side acceleration: 1,45 G (with road tyres, NO CUP)Gallery Image:Pagani Zonda F engine (AMG V12 7.3l)2.jpg|Pagani Zonda F engine Image:HK Wan Chai Grand Hyatt Hong Kong black 1.JPG|Pagani Zonda Image:Pagani_Zonda_Roadster_Yellow.jpg|Pagani Zonda Roadster ReferencesSourcesExternal linksPagani AutomobiliPagani Zonda R Photos and Information&quot;What the mind thinks, the hand creates&quot; Horacio Pagani interviewed&quot;The land where blows El Zonda&quot; - article about the origins of the "Zonda" namePagani Zonda Cinque (2009) with pictures and wallpapersCategory:Roadsters Category:Rear mid-engine, rear-wheel drive vehicles Category:1990s automobiles Category:2000s automobiles Category:Vehicles introduced in 1999da:Pagani Zonda de:Pagani Zonda es:Pagani Zonda fr:Pagani Zonda ka:პაგანი ძონდა nl:Pagani Zonda ja:パガーニ・ゾンダ no:Pagani Zonda pl:Pagani Zonda pt:Pagani Zonda sr:Pagani Zonda sh:Pagani Zonda fi:Pagani Zonda sv:Pagani Zonda