__NOTOC__''This article deals with the European species named "Ptarmigan" known in North America as the Rock Ptarmigan. For the Willow Ptarmigan, see Willow Grouse; see also White-tailed Ptarmigan.Scandinavian PtarmiganL. m. rupestris Canadian Rock PtarmiganL. m. helvetica Alpine PtarmiganL. m. japonica Japanese PtarmiganL. m. millaisi Scottish Ptarmigan| synonyms =Tetrao mutus Montin, 1781Lagopus mutus (lapsus, see below)The Ptarmigan, Lagopus mutaEtymology: The Ptarmigan's genus name, Lagopus, is derived from Ancient Greek lagos (λαγως), meaning "hare", + pous (πους), "foot", in reference to the bird's feathered legs (see also Snowshoe Hare). The species name muta comes from New Latin and means "mute", referring to the simple croaking song of the male. It was for a long time misspelt mutus, in the erroneous belief that the ending of Lagopus denotes masculine gender. However, as the Ancient Greek term λαγωπους is of feminine gender, and the species name has to agree with that, the feminine muta is correct (David & Gosselin 2002). The word ptarmigan comes from the Scottish Gaelic tàrmachan, which may be related to torm "murmur". The silent initial p'' was added in the 17th century through the influence of Greek, especially ''pteron (πτερον), "wing", "feather" or "pinion"., is a medium-sized (31–35 cm or 12–14 inches) gamebird in the grouse family. It is known as Rock Ptarmigan, or colloquially Snow Chicken in North America, where it is the official bird for the territory of Nunavut, Canada. It is a widespread bird in the Arctic Cordillera.It is a sedentary species, breeding across arctic and subarctic Eurasia and North America (including Greenland) on rocky mountainsides and tundra. There are isolated populations in the mountains of Scotland, the Pyrenees, the Alps, Bulgaria, the Urals, the Pamir Mountains, the Altay Mountains and Japan. During the last ice age, the species was far more widespread in continental Europe (Tomek & Bocheński 2005).The Ptarmigan is seasonally camouflaged; its feathers moult from white in winter to brown in spring or summer. Breeding males have greyish upper parts with white wings and underparts. In winter, plumage becomes completely white except for the black tail. They can be distinguished from the winter Willow Grouse (Willow Ptarmigan in North America) by habitat—Rock Ptarmigan prefer higher elevations and more barren habitat; they are also smaller in size with a more delicate bill.The male's "song" is a loud croaking. Because of the remote habitat they inhabit they have only a few predators, such as Golden Eagles, yet they can be surprisingly tame and approachable.Ptarmigan feed primarily on birch and willow buds and catkins when available. They will also take various seeds, leaves, flowers and berries of other plant species. Insects are also taken by the developing young.FolkloreIn the mountains of Honshū, Japan, the Ptarmigan is called raichou (literally "thunder bird") and according to legend protects people and buildings from fire and thunder.Sexual selection in malesThe male rock ptarmigan's comb has been the focus of studies regarding sexual selection.Apart from the comb, male rock-ptarmigan has no other ornaments or displays that are typical for grouses in temperate regions. Studies on other grouses have shown that much variation in comb size and colour exist between the species Johnsgard, P. A. 1984. Grouse of the world. Bloomington, Indiana: Indiana University Press. , and that the combs are used in courtship display, and aggressive interactions between males Hjorth, I. 1970. Reproductive behaviour in Tetranoidae. Viltrevy, 7, 183-596.. Many studies such as Stokkan, K. A. 1979a. Testosterone and daylength-dependent development of comb size and breeding plumage of male willow ptarmigan (Lagopus lagopus lagopus). Auk, 96, 106-115. have shown that there is a strong correlation between the comb size and the level of testosterone in males, and one report from 1981 Wattson, A.&Parr, R.1981. Hormone implants affecting territory size and aggressive and sexual behaviour in red grouse. Ornis Scand., 12, 55-61. showed that the amount of testosterone is correlated to aggressiveness against other males.Studies on a population of male Rock Ptarmigans in Scarpa Lake, conducted by Brodsky L.M. have shown that Brodsky, L. M. 1988. Mating tactics of male rock ptarmigan (Lagopus mutus): a consitional mating strategy. Anim Behav., 36, 335-342. during the first year, mating success among males was influenced by comb size and condition, and bigamous males had larger combs than monogamous males. However, the correlation of size disappeared after the first year, but the correlation to comb condition remained. This is consistent with another study of the same population of L.mutus that showed that mating success overall, was correlated to comb condition. Exceptions though were first-time breeders where the size of the comb influenced mating success Holder.K&Montgomerie.R. 1993. Context and cosequences of comb displays by male rock ptarmigan. Anim.Behav. 45, 457-470.Gallery Image:Lagopus muta (summer).jpg|Alpine Ptarmigan (Lagopus muta helvetica), summer plumage Image:Ptarmigan.jpg|Bird in winter plumage  References|year=2004|id=47082|title=Lagopus muta|downloaded=11 May 2006 Database entry includes justification for why this species is of least concern (2002): The grammatical gender of avian genera. Bull. B. O. C. 122(4): 257-282. (2005): Weichselian and Holocene bird remains from Komarowa Cave, Central Poland. Acta zoologica cracoviensia 48A(1-2): 43-65. PDF fulltextFootnotesExternal linksPage from the Grouse Specialist GroupStamps: Rock Ptarmigan (worldwide); with world RangeMapPtarmigan videos on the Internet Bird CollectionRSPBRock Ptarmigan-''Lagopus muta'' photo gallery VIREO Category:Tetraonidae Category:Birds of Europe Category:Arctic birds Category:Game birds Category:Birds of Canada Category:Birds of the United States Category:Birds of Japan Category:Wildlife of Siberia Category:Wildlife of the Arctic Category:Birds of Greenland Category:Special Natural monuments of Japanca:Perdiu blanca de:Alpenschneehuhn es:Lagopus muta eo:Monta lagopo fr:Lagopède alpin is:Rjúpa it:Lagopus muta lt:Tundrinė žvyrė hu:Alpesi hófajd nl:Alpensneeuwhoen ja:ライチョウ no:Fjellrype nn:Fjellrype pl:Pardwa górska pt:Lagópode-branco ru:Тундреная куропатка se:Giron sl:Belka fi:Kiiruna (lintu) sv:Fjällripa zh:岩雷鸟