 Central America   Area523,780 km²Population40,545,745 (2007 est.)Density77 per km²Countries7GDP$107.7 billion (exchange rate) (2006)  $ 226.3 billion (purchasing power parity) (2006).GDP per capita$2,541 (exchange rate) (2006)  $5,339(purchasing power parity) (2006).LanguagesSpanish, English, Garifuna, Kriol, Mayan languages, European languages, and many othersTime ZonesUTC - 6:00, UTC - 5:00Largest cities (2002)TegucigalpaManaguaGuatemala CitySan SalvadorSan Pedro SulaPanama CitySan José, Costa RicaSanta Ana, El SalvadorLeónSan MiguelLargest Cities in Central America, Rhett Butler. Accessed on line January 10, 2008. Central America (Spanish: Centroamérica or América Central) is a central geographic region of the Americas. It is technically the narrow and extreme most southern portion of the North American continent, which connects with South America on the southeast; but it is largely defined as a region of the Americas in its own right.Central America, MSN Encarta. Accessed on line January 10, 2008."Central America", vol. 3, Micropædia, The New Encyclopædia Britannica, Chicago: Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc., 1990, 15th ed. ISBN 0-85229-511-1. Most of Central America is considered to be part of the Mesoamerican biodiversity hotspot.Mesoamerica, Biodiversity Hotspots, Conservation International. Accessed on line January 10, 2008.Physical geography.]] Physiographically, Central America is a very narrow isthmus of southern North America extending from the Isthmus of Tehuantepec in southern Mexico southeastward to the Isthmus of Panama where it connects to the Colombian Pacific Lowlands in northwestern South America. Alternatively, the Trans-Mexican Volcanic Belt delimits the region on the north. Central America has an area of some 592,000 square kilometres. The Pacific Ocean lies to the southwest, the Caribbean Sea lies to the northeast, and the Gulf of Mexico lies to the north.Most of Central America rests atop the Caribbean Plate. The region is geologically active, with volcanic eruptions and earthquakes occurring from time to time. Managua, the capital of Nicaragua, was devastated by earthquakes in 1931 and 1972, and three earthquakes devastated El Salvador, one in 1986 and two in 2001. Fertile soils from weathered volcanic lavas have made it possible to sustain dense populations in the agriculturally productive highland areas..Human geographyGeopolitically, Central America has traditionally consisted of the following countries:Name of territory,with flagArea]](km²)Areas and population estimates taken from the 2008 CIA World Factbook, whose population estimates are as of July 2007.Population]](July 2007 est.)Population density]](per km²)Capital]]Officiallanguage]]BelmopanEnglishSan JoséSpanishSan SalvadorSpanishGuatemala CitySpanishTegucigalpaSpanishManaguaSpanishPanama CitySpanishTotalMany modern definitions of Central America include Belize and Panama, neither of which existed upon the formation of the Federal Republic of Central America, a short-lived union created after most of the region gained independence from Spain in the 19th century. The territory now occupied by Belize was originally contested by the United Kingdom and the Spanish Empire and, later, Guatemala (which has considered it, wholly or partially, an eastern department); it became a British colony (British Honduras) in 1871 and gained independence in 1981.Panama, situated on the Isthmus of Panama, is sometimes regarded as a transcontinental territory. Because of the Panama Canal, it is considered part of both North America and South America. For much of its post-Columbian history, Panama has been connected to South America. Panama was a possession of the Viceroyalty of New Granada, and then, following independence, became a part of la Gran Colombia (Greater Colombia). Only after independence from Colombia in 1903 did some begin to regard Panama as a North or Central American entity.History  In pre-Columbian times, the north-western areas of modern Central America were part of the Mesoamerican civilization. The Native American societies of Mesoamerica occupied the land ranging from central Mexico in the north to Costa Rica in the south. Most notable among these were the Maya, who had built numerous cities throughout the region, and the Aztecs, who created a vast empire. The pre-Columbian cultures of Panama traded with both Mesoamerica and South America, and can be considered transitional between those two cultural areas.Following Christopher Columbus's discovery of the Americas for Spain, the Spanish sent numerous expeditions to the region, and they began their conquest of Maya lands in the 1520s. In 1540, Spain established the Captaincy General of Guatemala, which extended from southern Mexico to Costa Rica, and thus encompassed most of what is currently known as Central America, with the exception of British Honduras (present-day Belize). This lasted nearly three centuries, until a rebellion (which followed closely on the heels of the Mexican War of Independence) in 1821.After the dissolution of Spanish authority, the former Captaincy General remained intact as part of the short-lived First Mexican Empire, then turned into the Federal Republic of Central America, which was a representative democracy with its capital at Guatemala City. This union consisted of the present day nations of Guatemala (which included the former state of Los Altos), Honduras, El Salvador, Nicaragua, Costa Rica (which included a region which is now part of Panama, and the Guanacaste Province which was once part of Nicaragua), and Soconusco, a portion of the modern Mexican state of Chiapas. The Republic lasted from 1823 to 1838, when it began to disintegrate due to civil wars.Central American integration Sistema de Integración Centroamericana Central American Integration System   Motto: «Peace, Development, Liberty and Democracy» Anthem: La Granadera  Area560,988 km²Population41,753,000 hab.Countries     &lt;br/&gt;&lt;br/&gt;  Central America is going through a process of political, economic and cultural transformation that started in 1907 with the creation of the Central American Court of Justice. In 1951 the integration process continued with the signature of the San Salvador Treaty that created the ODECA, the Organization of Central American States. Unfortunately, the ODECA was not completely successful due to internal conflicts between several states of the region.It was until 1991 that the integration agenda was completed with the creation of the SICA, Sistema para la Integración Centroamericana or System for the Central American Integration. The SICA provided a clear legal base to avoid discrepancies between the member states. The SICA membership includes the 7 nations of Central America plus the Dominican Republic, a state that is part of the Caribbean.Central America already has several supranational institutions such as the Central American Parliament, the Central American Bank for Economic Integration and the Central American Common Market.Foreign relationsUntil recently, all Central American countries have maintained diplomatic relations with the Republic of China (Taiwan) instead of the People's Republic of China.Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Republic of China. President Oscar Arias of Costa Rica, however, established diplomatic relations with the People's Republic of China in 2007, severing formal diplomatic ties with the Republic of China (Taiwan).Usage"Central America" may mean different things to different people in the world according to the context:In English, Central America is considered a region of the North American continent."Central America." Merriam-Webster's Collegiate Dictionary. Geopolitically, it usually comprises seven countries – Belize, Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua, Costa Rica, and Panama."Central America". Encyclopædia Britannica. 2006. Chicago: Encyclopedia Britannica, Inc. Mexico, in whole or in part, is occasionally included.Burchfield, R. W. 2004. "America". Fowler's Modern English Usage (ISBN 0-19-861021-1) New York: Oxford University Press, p. 48. Some geographers include the five states of Campeche, Chiapas, Tabasco, Quintana Roo, and Yucatán, together representing 12.1% of the country's total area.In Latin America, Iberia, and some other parts of Europe, the Americas are considered to be a single continent, and Central America is considered a region of this continent. In Ibero-America, the region is defined as seven nations – Belize, Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua, Costa Rica, and Panama – and may occasionally include Mexico's southernmost region.Centroamérica (Mexican version)"/Centroamérica (Spaniard version). Encarta Online Encyclopedia. Geopolitically, Mexico is not considered part of the region.The UN geoscheme defines the region as all states of North America south of the United States; conversely, the European Union excludes Belize and Mexico from its definition of the region. Standard Country and Area Codes Classifications (M49). United Nations Statistics Division.The EU's relations with Central America, European Commission. Accessed on line October 17, 2007.In Central America, the concept is divided in "Centroamérica" and "América Central". "Centro América" is used as a historical term to define the countries that formed part of the Federal Republic of Central America, while "América Central" is a contemporary concept of Central America as a region, now including Panama and Belize. This means, "Centroamérica" is a political term and "América Central" a geographical term.See alsoCentral American ParliamentEthnic groups in Central AmericaNorth AmericaSouth AmericaAmericas (terminology)Middle AmericaRail transport in Central AmericaReferences tags--   "Central America". The Columbia Encyclopedia, 6th ed. 2001-6. New York: Columbia University Press."Central America". MSN Encarta Online Encyclopedia 2006.American Heritage Dictionaries, Central America.WordNet Princeton University: Central America."Central America". The Columbia Gazetteer of the World Online. 2006. New York: Columbia University Press.External linksPhotos of Central AmericaCategory:Central Americaar:أمريكا الوسطى an:America Zentral frp:Amèrica centrâla ast:América Central az:Mərkəzi Amerika zh-min-nan:Tiong Bí-chiu bg:Централна Америка ca:Amèrica Central cs:Střední Amerika da:Mellemamerika de:Zentralamerika dsb:Srjejźna Amerika et:Kesk-Ameerika el:Κεντρική Αμερική es:América Central eo:Centra Ameriko eu:Erdialdeko Amerika fa:آمریکای مرکزی fo:Miðamerika fr:Amérique centrale fur:Americhe centrâl gv:Yn Americkey Veanagh gd:Aimearaga Mheadhanach gl:América Central ko:중앙아메리카 hr:Srednja Amerika hu:Közép-Amerika id:Amerika Tengah ia:America central it:America centrale he:אמריקה המרכזית jv:Amérika Tengah kn:ಮಧ್ಯ ಅಮೇರಿಕ ka:ცენტრალური ამერიკა sw:Amerika ya Kati lt:Centrinė Amerika mk:Средна Америка ms:Amerika Tengah nl:Centraal-Amerika ja:中央アメリカ no:Mellom-Amerika nds:Middelamerika pl:Ameryka Centralna pt:América Central ro:America Centrală ru:Центральная Америка scn:Amèrica cintrali simple:Central America sk:Stredná Amerika sl:Srednja Amerika sr:Средња Америка fi:Keski-Amerikka sm:Central Amelika sv:Centralamerika ta:நடு அமெரிக்கா th:อเมริกากลาง tr:Orta Amerika uk:Центральна Америка wo:Diggu Aamerig bat-smg:Centrėnė Amerėka zh:中美洲