 |school_tradition = Critical theory |main_interests = Social Theory EpistemologyPolitical theory Pragmatics |notable_ideas = Communicative rationalityDiscourse ethicsDeliberative democracyUniversal pragmaticsCommunicative action |influences = Weber Durkheim Mead MarxDilthey Parsons Kant Heidegger Piaget Horkheimer Adorno Marcuse Arendt Peirce Austin Scholem |influenced = Benhabib Forst Fraser HonnethMockus Hoppe FeenbergWingert Georg Henrik von Wright  Jürgen Habermas (; born June 18, 1929 is a German philosopher and sociologist in the tradition of critical theory and American pragmatism. He is perhaps best known for his work on the concept of the public sphere, the topic (and title) of his first book. His work focused on the foundations of social theory and epistemology, the analysis of advanced capitalistic societies and democracy, the rule of law in a critical social-evolutionary context, and contemporary politics—particularly German politics. Habermas's theoretical system is devoted to revealing the possibility of reason, emancipation, and rational-critical communication latent in modern institutions and in the human capacity to deliberate and pursue rational interests.BiographyHabermas was born in Düsseldorf, North Rhine-Westphalia.Until his graduation from gymnasium, Habermas lived in Gummersbach, near Cologne. His father, Ernst Habermas, was executive director of the Cologne Chamber of Industry and Commerce. He studied at the universities of Göttingen (1949/50), Zürich (1950/51), and Bonn (1951–54) and earned a doctorate in philosophyhttp://www.erz.uni-hannover.de/~horster/lit/habermas.pdf&lt;/ref&gt; from Bonn in 1954 with a dissertation entitled,  ("The absolute and history: on the contradiction in Schelling's thought"). His dissertation committee included Erich Rothacker and Oskar Becker.From 1956 on, he studied philosophy and sociology under the critical theorists Max Horkheimer and Theodor Adorno at the Institute for Social Research at the Johann Wolfgang Goethe University Frankfurt am Main, but because of a rift between the two over his dissertation—Horkheimer had made unacceptable demands for revision—as well as his own belief that the Frankfurt School had become paralyzed with political skepticism and disdain for modern culture—he finished his habilitation in political science at the University of Marburg under the Marxist Wolfgang Abendroth. His habilitation work was entitled,  (published in English translation in 1989 as The Structural Transformation of the Public Sphere: an Inquiry into a Category of Bourgeois Society). In 1961, he became a privatdozent in Marburg, and—in a move that was highly unusual for the German academic scene of that time—he was offered the position of "extraordinary professor" (professor without chair) of philosophy at the University of Heidelberg (at the instigation of Hans-Georg Gadamer and Karl Löwith) in 1962, which he accepted. In 1964, strongly supported by Adorno, Habermas returned to Frankfurt to take over Horkheimer's chair in philosophy and sociology.He accepted the position of Director of the Max Planck Institute in Starnberg (near Munich) in 1971, and worked there until 1983, two years after the publication of his magnum opus, The Theory of Communicative Action. Habermas then returned to his chair at Frankfurt and the directorship of the Institute for Social Research. Since retiring from Frankfurt in 1993, Habermas has continued to publish extensively. In 1986, he received the Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz Prize of the , which is the highest honour awarded in German research. He also holds the uncharacteristically postmodern position of "Permanent Visiting" Professor at Northwestern University in Evanston, Illinois, and "Theodor Heuss Professor" at The New School, New York.Habermas visited the People's Republic of China in April 2001. Habermas was also the 2004 Kyoto Laureate in the Arts and Philosophy section. He traveled to San Diego and on March 5, 2005, as part of the University of San Diego's Kyoto Symposium, gave a speech entitled The Public Role of Religion in Secular Context, regarding the evolution of separation of Church and State from neutrality to intense secularism. He received the 2005 Holberg International Memorial Prize (about € 520,000).Teacher and mentorHabermas was famous as a teacher and mentor. Among his most prominent students were the political sociologist Claus Offe (professor at the Hertie School of Governance in Berlin) , the social philosopher Johann Arnason (professor at La Trobe University and chief editor of the journal Thesis Eleven), the sociological theorist Hans Joas (professor at the University of Erfurt and at the University of Chicago), the theorist of societal evolution Klaus Eder, the social philosopher Axel Honneth (the current director of the Institute for Social Research), the American philosopher Thomas McCarthy, the co-creator of mindful inquiry in social research Jeremy J. Shapiro, and the assassinated Serbian prime minister Zoran Đinđić.TheoryHabermas constructed a comprehensive framework of social theory and philosophy drawing on a number of intellectual traditions:the German philosophical thought of Immanuel Kant, Friedrich Schelling, G. W. F. Hegel, Wilhelm Dilthey, Edmund Husserl, and Hans-Georg Gadamerthe Marxian tradition — both the theory of Karl Marx himself as well as the critical neo-Marxian theory of the Frankfurt School, i.e. Max Horkheimer, Theodor Adorno, and Herbert Marcusethe sociological theories of Max Weber, Émile Durkheim, and George Herbert Meadthe linguistic philosophy and speech act theories of Ludwig Wittgenstein, J.L. Austin, P. F. Strawson, Stephen Toulmin and John Searlethe developmental psychology of Jean Piaget and Lawrence Kohlbergthe American pragmatist tradition of Charles Sanders Peirce and John Deweythe sociological social systems theory of Talcott Parsons and Niklas LuhmannNeo-Kantian thoughtJürgen Habermas considered his major achievement to be the development of the concept and theory of communicative reason or communicative rationality, which distinguishes itself from the rationalist tradition by locating rationality in structures of interpersonal linguistic communication rather than in the structure of either the cosmos or the knowing subject. This social theory advances the goals of human emancipation, while maintaining an inclusive universalist moral framework. This framework rests on the argument called universal pragmatics - that all speech acts have an inherent telos (the Greek word for "end") — the goal of mutual understanding, and that human beings possess the communicative competence to bring about such understanding. Habermas built the framework out of the speech-act philosophy of Ludwig Wittgenstein, J. L. Austin, and John Searle, the sociological theory of the interactional constitution of mind and self of George Herbert Mead, the theories of moral development of Jean Piaget and Lawrence Kohlberg, and the discourse ethics of his Heidelberg colleague Karl-Otto Apel.He carried forward the traditions of Kant and the Enlightenment and of democratic socialism through his emphasis on the potential for transforming the world and arriving at a more humane, just, and egalitarian society through the realization of the human potential for reason, in part through discourse ethics. While Habermas conceded that the Enlightenment is an "unfinished project," he argued it should be corrected and complemented, not discarded. In this he distanced himself from the Frankfurt School, criticizing it, as well as much of postmodernist thought, for excessive pessimism, misdirected radicalism and exaggerations.Within sociology, Habermas's major contribution was the development of a comprehensive theory of societal evolution and modernization focusing on the difference between communicative rationality and rationalization on the one hand and strategic/instrumental rationality and rationalization on the other. This included a critique from a communicative standpoint of the differentiation-based theory of social systems developed by Niklas Luhmann, a student of Talcott Parsons.His defence of modernity and civil society has been a source of inspiration to others, and is considered a major philosophical alternative to the varieties of poststructuralism. He has also offered an influential analysis of late capitalism.Habermas saw the rationalization, humanization, and democratization of society in terms of the institutionalization of the potential for rationality that is inherent in the communicative competence that is unique to the human species. Habermas believed communicative competence has developed through the course of evolution, but in contemporary society it is often suppressed or weakened by the way in which major domains of social life, such as the market, the state, and organizations, have been given over to or taken over by strategic/instrumental rationality, so that the logic of the system supplants that of the lifeworld.The public sphere In The Structural Transformation of the Public Sphere Jürgen Habermas developed the influential concept of the public sphere, which emerged in the eighteenth century in Europe as a space of critical discussion, open to all, where private people came together to form a public whose "public reason" would work as a check on state power. Habermas argued that prior to the 18th century, European culture had been dominated by a "representational" culture, where one party sought to "represent" itself on its audience by overwhelming its subjectsBlanning, T.C.T. The French Revolution Class War or Culture Clash?, New York: St. Martin's Press, 1987, 1998 page 26. Thus, Habermas argued that Louis XIV's Palace of Versailles was meant to show the greatness of the French state and its King by overpowerng the senses of visitors to the PalaceBlanning, T.C.T. The French Revolution Class War or Culture Clash?, New York: St. Martin's Press, 1998 page 26. Habermas identified "representational" culture as corresponding to the feudal stage of development according to Marxist theory, and argued that the coming of the capitalist stage of development marked the appearance of Öffentlichkeit (the public sphere)Blanning, T.C.T. The French Revolution Class War or Culture Clash?, New York: St. Martin's Press, 1998 pages 26-27. In the culture characterized by Öffentlichkeit, there occured a public space outside of the control by the state, where individuals exchanged views and knowledgeBlanning, T.C.T. The French Revolution Class War or Culture Clash?, New York: St. Martin's Press, 1987, 1998 page 27. In Habermas's view, the growth in newspapers, journals, reading clubs, Masonic lodges, and coffee-houses in 18th century Europe all in different ways marked the gradual replacement of "representational" culture with Öffentlichkeit cultureBlanning, T.C.T. The French Revolution Class War or Culture Clash?, New York: St. Martin's Press, 1998 page 27. Habermas argued that the essential characteristic of the Öffentlichkeit culture was its "critical" natureBlanning, T.C.T. The French Revolution Class War or Culture Clash?, New York: St. Martin's Press, 1998 page 27. Unlike "representational" culture where only one party was active and the other passive, the Öffentlichkeit culture was characterized by a dialogue as individuals either met in conversation, or exchanged views via the print mediaBlanning, T.C.T. The French Revolution Class War or Culture Clash?, New York: St. Martin's Press, 1998 page 27. Habermas maintained that as Britain was the most liberal country in Europe, the culture of the public sphere emerged there first around 1700, and the growth of Öffentlichkeit culture took place over most of the 18th century in Continental EuropeBlanning, T.C.T. The French Revolution Class War or Culture Clash?, New York: St. Martin's Press, 1998 page 27. In his view, the French Revolution was in large part caused by the collapse of "representational" culture, and its replacement by Öffentlichkeit cultureBlanning, T.C.T. The French Revolution Class War or Culture Clash?, New York: St. Martin's Press, 1998 page 27. Through Habermas main concern in The Structural Transformation of the Public Sphere was to expose what he regarded as the deceptive nature of free institutions in the West, his book had a major impact on the historiography of the French RevolutionBlanning, T.C.T. The French Revolution Class War or Culture Clash?, New York: St. Martin's Press, 1998 pages 26-27.According to Habermas, a variety of factors resulted in the eventual decay of the public sphere, including the growth of a commercial mass media, which turned the critical public into a passive consumer public; and the welfare state, which merged the state with society so thoroughly that the public sphere was squeezed out. It also turned the "public sphere" into a site of self-interested contestation for the resources of the state rather than a space for the development of a public-minded rational consensus.In his magnum opus Theory of Communicative Action (1981) he criticized the one-sided process of modernization led by forces of economic and administrative rationalization. Habermas traced the growing intervention of formal systems in our everyday lives as parallel to development of the welfare state, corporate capitalism and the culture of mass consumption. These reinforcing trends rationalize widening areas of public life, submitting them to a generalizing logic of efficiency and control. As routinized political parties and interest groups substitute for participatory democracy, society is increasingly administered at a level remote from input of citizens. As a result, boundaries between public and private, the individual and society, the system and the lifeworld are deteriorating. Democratic public life only thrives where institutions enable citizens to debate matters of public importance. He describes an ideal type of "ideal speech situation"http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&amp;vid=ISBN0802087612&amp;id=tKDU3l3cq60C&amp;pg=PA49&amp;lpg=PA49&amp;dq=ideal+speech+situation&amp;sig=EsYFyIjaDQsWsYWUgtjvMK-13gU, where actors are equally endowed with the capacities of discourse, recognize each other's basic social equality and speech is undistorted by ideology or misrecognition.Habermas was optimistic about the possibility of the revival of the public sphere. He saw hope for the future in the new era of political community that transcends the nation-state based on ethnic and cultural likeness for one based on the equal rights and obligations of legally vested citizens. This discursive theory of democracy requires a political community which can collectively define its political will and implement it as policy at the level of the legislative system. This political system requires an activist public sphere, where matters of common interest and political issues can be discussed, and the force of public opinion can influence the decision-making process.Several noted academics have provided various criticisms of Habermas's notions regarding the public sphere. John B. Thompson, a Professor of Sociology at the University of Cambridge, has pointed out that Habermas's notion of the public sphere is antiquated due to the proliferation of mass-media communications. Michael Schudson from the University of California, San Diego argues more generally that a public sphere as a place of purely rational independent debate never existed.Historikerstreit (Historians' Quarrel) Habermas was famous as a public intellectual as well as a scholar; most notably, in the 1980s he used the popular press to attack the German historians Ernst Nolte, Michael Stürmer, and Andreas Hillgruber. Habermas first expressed his views on the above-mentioned historians in the Die Zeit newspaper on July 11, 1986 in a feuilleton (opinion piece) entitled “A Kind of Settlement of Damages”. Habermas criticized the three historians for “apologistic” history writing in regards to the Nazi era, and for seeking to “close Germany’s opening to the West” that in Habermas’s view had existed since 1945Habermas, Jürgen “A Kind of Settlement of Damages On Apologetic Tendencies In German History Writing” pages 34-44 from Forever In the Shadow of Hitler? edited by Ernst Piper, Humanities Press, Atlantic Highlands, 1993 page 43. He argued that they had tried to detach Nazi rule and the Holocaust from the mainstream of German history, explain away Nazism as a reaction to Bolshevism, and partially rehabilitate the reputation of the Wehrmacht (German Army) during World War II. The so-called Historikerstreit ("Historians' Quarrel") was not at all one-sided, because Habermas was himself attacked by scholars like Joachim Fest and Klaus HildebrandHildebrand, Klaus "The Age of Tyrants: History and Politics" pages 50-55 from Forever In The Shadow of Hitler? edited by Ernst Piper, Humanities Press, Atlantic Highlands, New Jersey, 1993 pages 54-55 & Fest, Joachim "Encumbered Remembrance: The Controversy about the Incomparability of National-Socialist Mass Crimes" pages 63-71 from Forever In The Shadow of Hitler? edited by Ernst Piper, Humanities Press, Atlantic Highlands, New Jersey, 1993 pages 64-65.Habermas and Derrida Habermas and Jacques Derrida engaged in a series of disputes beginning in the 1980s and culminating in a mutual refusal to participate in extended debate and a tendency to talk past one another. Following Habermas' publication of "Beyond a Temporalized Philosophy of Origins: Derrida" (in The Philosophical Discourse of Modernity), Derrida, citing Habermas as an example, remarked that, "those who have accused me of reducing philosophy to literature or logic to rhetoric ... have visibly and carefully avoided reading me" ("Is There a Philosophical Language?" p. 218, in Points...). Others prominent in postmodern thought, notably Jean-François Lyotard, engaged in more extended polemics against Habermas, whereas Philippe Lacoue-Labarthe found these polemics counterproductive. In hindsight, these contentious exchanges contributed to divisions within continental philosophy by focusing too heavily on a purported opposition between modernism and postmodernism &mdash; these terms were occasionally elevated to totemic if not cosmological importance in the 1980s, due in no small part to works by Lyotard and Habermas and their often enthusiastic and sometimes incautious reception in American universities. It may be suggested that schematic terminology like "poststructuralism", trafficked heavily in the United States but virtually unknown in France, found expression in Habermas' understanding of his French contemporaries, bringing with them the baggage of the "culture wars" raging within American academic circles at the time. In short: although the differences between Habermas and Derrida (if not deconstruction generally) were profound but not necessarily irreconcilable, they were fueled by polemical responses to mischaracterizations of those differences, which in turn sharply inhibited meaningful discussion.In the aftermath of 9/11, Derrida and Habermas established a limited political solidarity and put their previous disputes behind them in the interest of "friendly and open-minded interchange," as Habermas put it. After laying out their individual opinions on 9/11 in Giovanna Borradori's Philosophy in a Time of Terror: Dialogues with Jürgen Habermas and Jacques Derrida, Derrida wrote a foreword expressing his unqualified subscription to Habermas's declaration, "February 15, or, What Binds Europeans Together: Plea for a Common Foreign Policy, Beginning in Core Europe,” in Old Europe, New Europe, Core Europe (Verso, 2005). Habermas has offered further context for this declaration in an interview. Quite distinct from this, Geoffrey Bennington, a close associate of Derrida's, has in a further conciliatory gesture offered an account of deconstruction intended to provide some mutual intelligibility. Derrida was already extremely ill by the time the two had begun their new exchange, and the two were not able to develop this such that they could substantially revisit previous disagreements or find more profound terms of discussion before Derrida's death. Nevertheless, this late collaboration has encouraged some scholars to revisit the positions, recent and past, of both thinkers, vis-a-vis the other.Dialogue with Joseph Cardinal Ratzinger (now Pope Benedict XVI)In early 2007, Ignatius Press published a dialogue between Habermas and Roman Catholic Joseph Cardinal Ratzinger (now Pope Benedict XVI), entitled The Dialectics of Secularization. It addresses such important contemporary questions as these: Is a public culture of reason and ordered liberty possible in our post-metaphysical age? Is philosophy permanently cut adrift from its grounding in being and anthropology? Does this decline of rationality signal an opportunity or a deep crisis for religion itself?Major worksThe Structural Transformation of the Public Sphere (1962) ISBN 0262581086Theory and Practice (1963)On the Logic of the Social Sciences (1967)Toward a Rational Society (1967)Technology and Science as Ideology (1968)Knowledge and Human Interests (1968)Social Identity&quot;. ''TELOS'' 19 (Spring 1974). New York: Telos PressLegitimation Crisis (1975)Communication and the Evolution of Society (1976)On the Pragmatics of Social Interaction (1976)The Theory of Communicative Action (1981)Moral Consciousness and Communicative Action (1983)Philosophical-Political Profiles (1983)The Philosophical Discourse of Modernity (1985)The New Conservatism (1985)Postmetaphysical Thinking (1988)Justification and Application (1991)Between Facts and Norms: Contributions to a Discourse Theory of Law and Democracy (1992)On the Pragmatics of Communication (1992)The Inclusion of the Other (1996)A Berlin Republic (1997, collection of interviews with Habermas)The Postnational Constellation (1998)Rationality and Religion (1998)Truth and Justification (1998)The Future of Human Nature (2003) ISBN 0745629865Old Europe, New Europe, Core Europe (2005) ISBN 184467018XThe Divided West (2006)The Dialectics of Secularization (2007, w/ Joseph Ratzinger)ReferencesNotesSourcesJürgen Habermas : a philosophical—political profile / Martin Matuštík.Postnational identity : critical theory and existential philosophy in Habermas, Kierkegaard, and Havel / Matuštík.Thomas McCarthy, The Critical Theory of Jürgen Habermas, MIT Press, 1978.Raymond Geuss, The Idea of a Critical Theory, Cambridge University Press, 1981.J.G. Finlayson, Habermas: A Very Short Introduction, Oxford University Press, 2004.Jane Braaten, [http://print.google.com/print?id=rxlg75uJrCMC&amp;lpg=9&amp;prev=http://print.google.com/print%3Fie%3DUTF-8%26q%3DHabermas's%2BCritical%2BTheory%2Bof%2BSociety%26btnG%3DSearch&amp;pg=0_1&amp;printsec=0&amp;sig=3bMQypmyBQvD465kprntAMpgY8k Habermas's Critical Theory of Society], State University of New York Press, 1991.Erik Oddvar Eriksen and Jarle Weigard, Understanding Habermas: Communicative Action and Deliberative Democracy, Continuum International Publishing, 2004 (ISBN 082647179X).Detlef Horster. ''Habermas: An Introduction." Pennbridge, 1992 (ISBN 1-880055-01-5)Martin Jay, Marxism and Totality: The Adventures of a Concept from Lukacs to Habermas (Chapter 9), University of California Press, 1986. (ISBN 0-520-05742-2)Mike Sandbothe, Habermas, Pragmatism, and the Media, Online publication: sandbothe.net 2008; German original in: Über Habermas. Gespräche mit Zeitgenossen, ed. by Michael Funken, Darmstadt: Primus 2008Luca Corchia, [http://arp.unipi.it/dettaglioar.php?ide=124042 Bibliography of Jürgen Habermas (1952-2007)], in Il Trimestrale. The Lab's Quarterly, 1, 2008, ss. 65 - ISSN 1724-451XMassimo Ampola - Luca Corchia, [http://books.google.it/books?id=DjzBKvfLDaQC Dialogo su Jürgen Habermas. Le trasformazioni della modernità], Pisa, Ets, 2007 - ISBN 8846719336AwardsIn 1985, Habermas was awarded the Geschwister-Scholl-Preis for his work, Die neue Unübersichtlichkeit.in 1987, Habermas vas awarded The Sonning Prize (Danish: "Sonningprisen") awarded biennially for outstanding contributions to European cultureIn 2004, the Inamori Foundation in Japan awarded Habermas the Kyoto Prize (50 million Yen).In 2005, the Norwegian Ludvig Holberg Memorial Fund awarded Habermas the €520.000 endowed Holberg International Memorial Prize.On August 9, 2008, the €50,000 European Prize of Political Culture (Hans Ringier Foundation) was awarded to Habermas at the Locarno Film Festival.See also''Brave New World'' argumentCommunicative actionConstitutional patriotismConstellations (journal)The Foucault/Habermas debatePerformative contradictionThe 2005 Global Intellectuals PollExternal linksInterview with Habermas on YoutubeExtensive article in the Stanford Encyclopedia of PhilosophyHabermas Forum Online text by Jürgen Habermas, news, bibliography and biography (largely in German), updated weeklyHabermas at Northwestern Universityscholarly e-mail discussion at Yahoo! Groups about, in light of, or related to Jürgen Habermas' work (in English)Wikibook providing space for page-by-page analysis of the works of Jürgen Habermas[http://www.signandsight.com/features/676.html Towards a United States of Europe], by Jürgen Habermas, at signandsight.com, published March 27, 2006[http://www.signandsight.com/features/1349.html How to save the quality press?] Habermas argues for state support for quality newspapers, at signandsight.com, published May 21, 2007[http://www.helsinki.fi/~amkauppi/hablinks.html#writings Habermas links collected by Antti Kauppinen (writings; interviews; bibliography; Habermas explained, discussed, reviewed; and other Habermas sites; updated 2004]Geoffrey Bennington offers an account of deconstruction for an audience familiar with Habermas (Microsoft word file)Habermas, the Public Sphere, and Democracy: A Critical Intervention by Douglas KellnerHabermasian Reflections blog'Dear Habermas' academic journalDemocracy in the Age of Information: A Reconception of the Public Sphere by Denis GaynorJurgen Habermas, On Society and PoliticsThe Jürgen Habermas Web ResourceInterview with Jurgen Habermas about the European Union (dpa, March 2007)&quot;Jürgen Habermas&quot; in the Johns Hopkins Guide to Literary Theory &amp; CriticismJuergen Habermas gives Memorial Lecture in honor of American Philosopher, Richard Rorty on November 2nd, 2007 5pm Cubberley Auditorium, at Stanford University. Transcript available here.Religion in the Public Sphere - Craig Calhoun, Robert Bellah, and others respond to Habermas's recent essay |PLACE OF BIRTH=Düsseldorf, Germany |DATE OF DEATH= |PLACE OF DEATH=  Category:20th century philosophers Category:Atheist philosophers Category:Continental philosophers Category:Frankfurt School Category:German atheists Category:German philosophers Category:German sociologists Category:Marxist theorists Category:People from Düsseldorf Category:People from the Rhine Province Category:Philosophers of language Category:Political philosophers Category:Political theorists Category:Political scientists Category:Rhetoricians Category:Social philosophy Category:University of Göttingen alumni Category:University of Bonn alumni Category:University of Marburg alumni Category:University of Marburg faculty Category:University of Heidelberg faculty Category:University of Frankfurt faculty Category:Northwestern University faculty Category:Scholars of nationalism af:Jürgen Habermas ar:يورغن هابرماس bs:Jürgen Habermas bg:Юрген Хабермас ca:Jürgen Habermas cs:Jürgen Habermas da:Jürgen Habermas de:Jürgen Habermas et:Jürgen Habermas es:Jürgen Habermas eo:Jürgen Habermas fa:یورگن هابرماس fr:Jürgen Habermas gl:Jürgen Habermas glk:يؤرگن هابئرماس ko:위르겐 하버마스 id:Jürgen Habermas is:Jürgen Habermas it:Jürgen Habermas he:יורגן האברמאס ku:Jürgen Habermas lt:Jürgen Habermas hu:Jürgen Habermas nl:Jürgen Habermas ja:ユルゲン・ハーバーマス no:Jürgen Habermas pl:Jürgen Habermas pt:Jürgen Habermas ro:Jürgen Habermas ru:Хабермас, Юрген sq:Jürgen Habermas sk:Jürgen Habermas sl:Jürgen Habermas sr:Јирген Хабермас fi:Jürgen Habermas sv:Jürgen Habermas tr:Jürgen Habermas uk:Габермас Юрґен yo:Jürgen Habermas zh:尤尔根·哈贝马斯