 | location = Brooklyn, New York, U.S. | yearsactive = 1950 - Present | spouse = Harlene Rosen (1956-1962)  Louise Lasser (1966-1969)  Soon-Yi Previn (1997-) | domestic partner = Mia Farrow (1980-1992) | children = 5; including Ronan Seamus Farrow | religion = AtheistThe religion of Woody Allen, director and actor&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; | influences = Ingmar Bergman, Groucho Marx, Federico Fellini, Cole Porter, Anton Chekhov | academyawards = Best Director 1977 Annie Hall Best Original Screenplay  1977 Annie Hall 1986 Hannah and Her Sisters | baftaawards = Best Direction  1977 Annie Hall  1986 Hannah and Her Sisters  Best Film  1985 The Purple Rose of CairoBest Screenplay  1977 Annie Hall  1979 Manhattan  Best Original Screenplay  1985 The Purple Rose of Cairo  1986 Hannah and Her Sisters  1992 Husbands and Wives | cesarawards = Best Foreign Film  1980 Manhattan  1986 The Purple Rose of Cairo | goldenglobeawards = Best Screenplay  1985 The Purple Rose of Cairo | goyaawards = Best European Film  2006 Match Point  Woody Allen (born Allan Stewart Konigsberg; December 1, 1935) is an American film director, writer, actor, comedian, and playwright.Allen's distinctive films, which run the gamut from intense dramas to screwball sex comedies, have made him one of the most respected living American directors. He is also distinguished by his rapid rate of production and his very large body of work.  Allen writes and directs his movies and has also acted in the majority of them. For inspiration, Allen draws heavily on literature, sexuality, philosophy, psychology, Jewish identity, European cinema, and New York City, where he was born and has lived his entire life.Allen is also a jazz clarinetist. What began as a teenage avocation has led to regular public performances at various small venues in his Manhattan hometown, with occasional appearances at various jazz festivals. Allen joined the Preservation Hall Jazz Band and the New Orleans Funeral Ragtime Orchestra in performances that provided the film score for his 1973 comedy Sleeper, and a rare European tour in 1996 featuring Allen was the subject of the documentary Wild Man Blues.Early yearsAllen was born and raised in New York City, the son of Nettie (née Cherrie; November 8, 1906 - January 27, 2002), a bookkeeper at her family's delicatessen, and Martin Konigsberg (December 25, 1900 - January 13, 2001), a jewelry engraver and waiter.Woody Allen Biography (1935-)&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; His family was Jewish and his grandparents were Yiddish- and German-speaking immigrants. Allen has a sister, Letty (born 1943), and was raised in Midwood, Brooklyn. "I think he's slacked off the last few movies,'' said Norman Brown, 70, a retired draftsman from Mr. Allen's old neighborhood, Midwood, Brooklyn, who said he had seen nearly all of Mr. Allen's 33 films." His parents were both born and raised on the Lower East Side of Manhattan. His childhood, while middle-class, wasn't particularly happy. His parents didn't get along, and he had a rocky relationship with his stern, temperamental mother.The Unruly Life of Woody Allen&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; Allen spoke Yiddish during his early years and, after attending Hebrew school for eight years, went to Public School 99 and to Midwood High School. During that time, he lived in an apartment at 1402 Avenue K, between East 14th and 15th Streets. He was Nicknamed "Red" because of his red hair; he impressed students with his extraordinary talent at card and magic tricks. Though in his films and his comedy persona he has often depicted himself as physically inept and socially unpopular, in fact Woody Allen was a popular student, and an adept baseball and basketball player.To raise money he began writing gags for the agent David O. Alber, who sold them to newspaper columnists. According to Allen, his first published joke "was in a gossip column. It read: 'Woody Allen says he ate at a restaurant that had O.P.S. prices—over people's salaries.'"At sixteen, he was discovered by Milt Kamen, who got him his first writing job with Sid Caesar. He began calling himself Woody Allen. He was a gifted comedian from an early age and would later joke that when he was young he was sent to inter-faith summer camp, where he "was savagely beaten by children of all races and creeds".After high school, he went to New York University (NYU) where he studied communication and film. He was never committed as a student, however, failed a film course, and was eventually expelled.Famous college drop-outs who became successful businessmen - Non-Traditional College Students - Helium - by Glenda K. Fralin&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; He later briefly attended City College of New York.Comedy writer and playwrightAfter his false starts at NYU and City College, he became a full-time writer for Herb Shriner, earning $75 a week at first. At age 19, he started writing scripts for The Ed Sullivan Show, The Tonight Show, Caesar's Hour and other television shows.  By the time he was working for Sid Caesar, he was making $1500 a week; with Caesar he worked alongside Danny Simon, whom Allen credits for helping him to structure his writing style.In 1961, he started a new career as a stand-up comedian, debuting in a Greenwich Village club called the Duplex. Examples of Allen's standup act can be heard on the albums Standup Comic and Nightclub Years 1964-1968.He began writing for the popular Candid Camera television show, even appearing in some episodes. Together with his managers, Allen turned his weaknesses into his strengths, developing his neurotic, nervous, and intellectual persona. He quickly became a successful comedian, and appeared frequently in nightclubs and on television. Allen was popular enough to appear on the cover of Life in 1969.Allen started writing short stories for magazines (most notably The New Yorker). He also became a successful Broadway playwright, writing Don't Drink the Water, which opened on November 17, 1966 and ran for 598 performances. It starred Lou Jacobi, Kay Medford, Anita Gillette and Allen's future movie co-star Anthony Roberts. A film adaptation of the play, directed by Howard Morris, was released in 1969 starring Jackie Gleason. In 1994 Allen directed and starred in a third version for television with Michael J. Fox and Mayim Bialik.His next Broadway hit, Play It Again, Sam, he not only wrote, but starred in. It opened on February 12, 1969 and ran for 453 performances. It also featured Diane Keaton and Anthony Roberts. Allen, Keaton and Roberts would reprise their roles in the film version of the play, directed by Herbert Ross.Allen is also an accomplished author having published four collections of his short pieces and plays. These are Getting Even, Without Feathers, Side Effects and Mere Anarchy. His early comic fiction was heavily influenced by the zany, pun-ridden humour of S.J. Perelman.Film careerEarly filmsHis first movie production was What's New, Pussycat? in 1965, for which he wrote the initial screenplay. He was hired by Warren Beatty to re-write a script, and to appear in a small part in the movie. Over the course of the re-write, Beatty's part grew smaller and Allen's grew larger. Beatty was upset and quit the production. Peter O'Toole was hired for the Beatty role, and Peter Sellers was brought in as well; Sellers was a big enough star to demand many of Woody Allen's best lines/scenes, prompting hasty re-writes. This experience with meddling producers, egotistical stars, and directors ruining jokes, along with a similar experience on the James Bond spoof Casino Royale (for which he did uncredited rewrites of his own scenes), led Allen to decide that the only way filmmaking was worthwhile was if he was in control of the film.Allen's first directorial effort was What's Up, Tiger Lily? (1966 co-written with Mickey Rose), in which an existing Japanese spy movie (Kokusai himitsu keisatsu: Kagi no kagi 1965 &mdash; "International Secret Police: Key of Keys") was redubbed in English by Allen and his friends with completely new, comic dialogue.1960s and 1970sHis first conventional effort was Take the Money and Run (1969), which was followed by Bananas, Everything You Always Wanted To Know About Sex (But Were Afraid to Ask), Sleeper, and Love and Death. Take the Money and Run and Bananas were both co-written by his childhood friend, Mickey Rose.In 1972, he also starred in the film version of Play It Again, Sam, which was directed by Herbert Ross. All of Allen's early films were pure comedies that relied heavily on slapstick, inventive sight gags, and non-stop one-liners. Among the many notable influences on these films are Bob Hope, Groucho Marx (as well as, to some extent, Harpo Marx) and Humphrey Bogart. In 1976, he starred in, but did not direct, The Front (that task was handled by Martin Ritt), a humorous and poignant account of Hollywood blacklisting during the 1950s.Annie Hall marked a major turn to more sophisticated humor and thoughtful drama. Allen's 1977 film won four Academy Awards, including Best Picture – an unusual feat for a comedy, and Best Actress in a Leading Role for Diane Keaton. Annie Hall set the standard for modern romantic comedy, and also started a minor fashion trend with the unique clothes worn by Diane Keaton in the film (the offbeat, masculine clothing, such as ties with cardigans, was actually Keaton's own). While in production, its working title was "Anhedonia," a term that means the inability to feel pleasure, and its plot revolved around a murder mystery. Apparently, as filmed, the murder mystery plot did not work (and was later used in his 1993 Manhattan Murder Mystery), so Allen re-edited and re-cut the movie after production ended to focus on the romantic comedy between Allen's character, Alvy Singer, and Keaton's character, Annie Hall. The new version, retitled Annie Hall (named after Keaton's grandmother), still deals with the theme of the inability to feel pleasure. Ranked at No. 35 on the American Film Institute' s "100 Best Movies" and at No. 4 on the AFI list of "100 Best Comedies," Annie Hall is considered to be among Allen's best.Manhattan, released in 1979, is a black-and-white film that can be viewed as an homage to New York City, which has been described as the true "main character" of the movie. As in many other Allen films, the main characters are upper-class academics. Even though it makes fun of pretentious intellectuals, the story is packed with obscure references which makes it less accessible to a general audience. The love-hate opinion of cerebral persons found in Manhattan is characteristic of many of Allen's movies including Crimes and Misdemeanors and Annie Hall. Manhattan focuses on the complicated relationship between a middle-aged Isaac Davis (Allen) and a seventeen-year-old Tracy (Mariel Hemingway) – which presages Allen's complicated personal relationship with Soon-Yi Previn.Between Annie Hall and Manhattan Allen wrote and directed the gloomy drama Interiors (1978), in the style of the late Swedish director Ingmar Bergman, one of Allen's major influences. Interiors is considered by critics as a significant breakthrough past Allen's "earlier, funnier comedies" (a line from 1980s Stardust Memories).1980sAllen's 1980s films, even the comedies, have somber and philosophical undertones. Some, like September and Stardust Memories, are often said to be heavily influenced by the works of European directors, most notably Ingmar Bergman and Federico Fellini.Stardust Memories features a main character, a successful filmmaker played by Allen, who expresses resentment and scorn for his fans. Overcome by the recent death of a friend from illness, the character states, "I don't want to make funny movies any more," and a running gag throughout the film has various people (including a group of visiting space aliens) telling Bates that they appreciate his work, "especially the early, funny ones". However, by the mid-1980s, Allen had begun to combine tragic and comic elements with the release of such films as Hannah and Her Sisters (winner of three Academy Awards, including Best Actress in a Supporting Role for Diane Weist) starring British actor Michael Caine, and Crimes and Misdemeanors, in which he tells two different stories that connect at the end. He also produced a vividly idiosyncratic tragi-comical parody of documentary, titled Zelig.He also made three films about show business. The first movie is Broadway Danny Rose, in which he plays a New York manager; then, The Purple Rose of Cairo, a movie that shows the importance of the cinema during the Depression through the character of the naive Cecilia. Lastly, Allen made Radio Days, which is a film about his childhood in Brooklyn, and the importance of the radio. Purple Rose was named by Time Magazine as one of the 100 best films of all time, and Allen has described it as one of his three best films, along with Stardust Memories and Match Point."Woody Speaks!", Premiere Magazine interview by Jason Matloff. http://www.premiere.com/article.asp?section_id=6&amp;article_id=2539&amp;page_number=1&amp;print_page=y (It is worth noting that Allen defines them as "best" not in terms of quality, but because they came out the closest to his original vision.)Before the end of the eighties he made other movies that were strongly inspired by Ingmar Bergman's films. September is a remake of Autumn Sonata, and Allen uses many elements from Persona in Another Woman.1990sHis 1992 film Shadows and Fog (1992) is a black and white homage to German expressionists and features the music of Kurt Weill. Allen then made his critically acclaimed drama Husbands and Wives (1992) which received two Oscar nominations; Best Supporting Actress for Judy Davis and Best Original Screenplay for Allen. His film Manhattan Murder Mystery (1993) combined suspense with dark comedy, and starred Diane Keaton, Alan Alda and Anjelica Huston.Next, he returned to lighter movies, such as Bullets Over Broadway (1994), which earned him an Academy Award nomination for Best Director followed by a musical Everyone Says I Love You (1996) -- his first and only one as of 2008. The singing and dancing scenes in Everyone Says I Love You are similar to the musical starring Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers, but the plot is comical. The comedy Mighty Aphrodite (1995), in which the Greek and Roman tragedies play a large role, won an Academy Award for Mira Sorvino. Allen's 1999 jazz mockumentary Sweet and Lowdown was also nominated for two Academy Awards for Sean Penn (Best Actor) and Samantha Morton (Best Supporting Actress). In contrast to these lighter movies, Allen veered into satire and scathing darkness towards the end of the decade with Deconstructing Harry (1997) and Celebrity (1998). Allen made his only sitcom "appearance" via telephone in the 1997 episode, "My Dinner with Woody" of the show Just Shoot Me!, an episode paying tribute to several of his films.2000sSmall Time Crooks (2000) was his first film with DreamWorks SKG studio and represented a change in direction: Allen began giving more interviews and made an apparent return to his strictly comedy roots. Small Time Crooks was a relative success, grossing over $17 million domestically, but Allen's next four films floundered at the box office, including Allen's most expensive film to date, The Curse of the Jade Scorpion (with a budget of $33 million). Hollywood Ending, Anything Else, and Melinda and Melinda were given "rotten" ratings from film-review website Rotten Tomatoes and each earned less than $5 million domestically./ Most critics agreed that Allen's films since 1999's Sweet and Lowdown were subpar, and some critics expressed concern that Allen's best years were now behind him. Woody gave his godson, Quincy Rose, a small part in Melinda & Melinda.Match Point (2005) was one of Allen's most successful films in the past ten years and generally received very positive reviews. Set in London, it starred Jonathan Rhys-Meyers and Scarlett Johansson. It is also markedly darker than Allen's first four films under the DreamWorks SKG banner. In Match Point Allen shifts his focus from the intellectual upper class of New York to the moneyed upper class of London. While different from Allen's many critical satires, Match Point still has undertones of social critique. This is clearest in the theme of luck which works on several levels in the film. Match Point earned more than $23 million domestically (more than any of his films in nearly 20 years) and earned over $62 million in international box office sales. Match Point earned Allen his first Academy Award nomination since 1998 for Best Writing, Original Screenplay and also earned directing and writing nominations at the Golden Globes, his first Globe nominations since 1987. In an interview with Premiere Magazine, Allen stated this was the best film he has ever made.Allen returned to London to film Scoop, which also starred Johansson, as well as Hugh Jackman, Ian McShane and Kevin McNally. The film was released on July 28, 2006, and received mixed reviews. He has also filmed Cassandra's Dream in London. Cassandra's Dream stars Colin Farrell, Ewan McGregor, and Tom Wilkinson and was released in November 2007.After finishing his third London film, Allen headed to Spain. He reached an agreement to film Vicky Cristina Barcelona, in Avilés, Barcelona and Oviedo, where shooting started on July 9, 2007. The movie stars international and Spanish actors and actresses, including Scarlett Johansson, Javier Bardem, Patricia Clarkson, and Penélope Cruz. "I'm delighted at being able to work with Mediapro and make a film in Spain, a country which has become so special to me,".Allen has said that he "survives" on the European market. Audiences there have tended to be more receptive to Allen's films, particularly in Spain and France, both countries where he has a large fan base (something joked about in Hollywood Ending). "In the United States things have changed a lot, and it's hard to make good small films now," Allen said in a 2004 interview. "The avaricious studios couldn't care less about good films – if they get a good film they're twice as happy, but money-making films are their goal. They only want these $100 million pictures that make $500 million".In April 2008, he began filming for a movie focused more towards older audiences starring Larry David, Emma Thompson and Evan Rachel Wood. He revealed in July 2008 the title of this film, to be released in 2009: Whatever Works.Woody Allen Reveals Latest Movie Title: 'Whatever Works' - Cinematical&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;&quot;Woody Allen&quot; characterAllen continues to write roles for the neurotic persona he created in the 1960s and 1970s; however, as he gets older, the roles have been assumed by other actors such as John Cusack (Bullets Over Broadway), Kenneth Branagh (Celebrity), Jason Biggs (Anything Else), Will Ferrell (Melinda and Melinda), and Larry David (Whatever Works). Awards, nominations and distinctions .]] , Spain).]] Over the course of his career Allen has received a considerable number of awards and distinctions in film festivals and yearly national film awards ceremonies, saluting his work as a director, screenwriter and actor. When premiering his films at festivals, Allen does not screen his motion pictures in competition, thus deliberately taking them out of consideration for potential awards.Allen's film Annie Hall won four Academy Awards in 1977, including best picture.Allen won the 1978 O. Henry Award for his short story "The Kugelmass Episode" published in The New Yorker on May 2, 1977.Allen twice won the César Award for Best Foreign Film, the first in 1980 for Manhattan and the second in 1986 for The Purple Rose of Cairo. Seven other of his movies were nominated for the prize.In 1986, Allen won the Golden Globe for Best Screenplay for The Purple Rose of Cairo. He was also nominated four times as Best Director, four times for Best Screenplay and twice for Best Actor (Comedy/musical).At the 1995 Venice Film Festival, Allen received a Career Golden Lion for lifetime achievement.In 1996, Allen received a lifetime achievement award from the Directors Guild of America.In 2002 Allen won the Prince of Asturias Award. Subsequently, the city of Oviedo, Spain erected a life-size statue of Allen.Neatorama&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;In 2002, Allen received the Palme des Palmes, a special lifetime achievement award granted by the Cannes Festival and whose sole other recipient is Ingmar Bergman. Profile of Woody Allen on the Cannes Festival's website (in French)]In a 2005 poll The Comedian's Comedian, Allen was voted the third greatest comedy act ever by fellow comedians and comedy insiders.In June 2007 Allen received a PhD Honoris Causa from Pompeu Fabra University (Barcelona, Spain).Academy AwardsWoody Allen has won three Academy Awards and been nominated a total of 21 times: fourteen as a screenwriter, six as a director, and one as an actor. He has more screenwriting Academy Award nominations than any other writer; all are in the "Best Original Screenplay" category. He is tied for fifth all-time with six Best Director nominations. His actors have regularly received both nominations and Academy Awards for their work in Allen films, particularly in the Best Supporting categories.Annie Hall won four Academy Awards (Best Picture, Best Screenplay, Best Director and Best Actress). The film received a fifth nomination, for Allen as Best Actor. Hannah and Her Sisters won three, for Best Screenplay and both Best Supporting Actor categories; it was nominated in four other categories, including Best Picture and Best Director.Despite friendly recognition from the Academy, Allen has consistently refused to attend the ceremony or acknowledge his Oscar wins. He broke this pattern twice. At the 2002 Oscars Allen made an unannounced appearance, making a plea for producers to continue filming their movies in New York City after the 9-11 attacks. He was given a standing ovation before introducing a montage of movie clips featuring New York. The second time was at the 2007 Oscars.  Best Original ScreenplayWon: Annie Hall (1977)Nominated: Interiors (1978)Nominated: Manhattan (1979)Nominated: Broadway Danny Rose (1984)Nominated: The Purple Rose of Cairo (1985)Won: Hannah and Her Sisters (1986)Nominated: Radio Days (1987)Nominated: Crimes and Misdemeanors (1989)Nominated: Alice (1990)Nominated: Husbands and Wives (1992)Nominated: Bullets Over Broadway (1994)Nominated: Mighty Aphrodite (1995)Nominated: Deconstructing Harry (1997)Nominated: Match Point (2005)Best ActorNominated: Annie Hall (1977)Best DirectorWon: Annie Hall (1977)Nominated: Interiors (1978)Nominated: Broadway Danny Rose (1984)Nominated: Hannah and Her Sisters (1986)Nominated: Crimes and Misdemeanors (1989)Nominated: Bullets Over Broadway (1994)Four actors have won five Academy Awards for their work in Allen films: Diane Keaton (Best Actress, Annie Hall), Michael Caine (Best Supporting Actor, Hannah and Her Sisters), Dianne Wiest (Best Supporting Actress, Hannah and Her Sisters and Bullets Over Broadway), and Mira Sorvino (Best Supporting Actress, Mighty Aphrodite).Ten actors have received Academy Award nominations for their work in Allen films: Allen himself (Best Actor, Annie Hall), Geraldine Page (Best Actress, Interiors), Martin Landau (Best Supporting Actor, Crimes and Misdemeanors), Chazz Palminteri (Best Supporting Actor, Bullets Over Broadway), Maureen Stapleton (Best Supporting Actress, Interiors), Mariel Hemingway (Best Supporting Actress, Manhattan), Judy Davis (Best Supporting Actress, Husbands and Wives), Jennifer Tilly (Best Supporting Actress, Bullets Over Broadway), Sean Penn (Best Actor, Sweet and Lowdown), and Samantha Morton (Best Supporting Actress, Sweet and Lowdown).BAFTAAllen has won a number of British Academy of Film and Television Arts (BAFTA) awards and nominations for best picture, best director, best actor and best screenplay. In 1997, he received the honorary BAFTA Fellowship for his work.1978 — Won — Best Film — Annie Hall1978 — Won — Best Screenplay — Annie Hall (with Marshall Brickman)1978 — Won — Best Direction — Annie Hall1980 — Won — Best Film — Manhattan1980 — Won — Best Screenplay — Manhattan (with Marshall Brickman)1985 — Won — Best Screenplay — Broadway Danny Rose1986 — Won — Best Film — The Purple Rose of Cairo1986 — Won — Best Screenplay — The Purple Rose of Cairo1987 — Won — Best Screenplay — Hannah and Her Sisters1987 — Won — Best Direction — Hannah and Her Sisters1993 — Won — Best Screenplay — Husbands and WivesNominated for best film for Hannah and Her Sisters, Radio Days, Crimes and Misdemeanors.Nominated for best actor for Annie Hall, Manhattan, Hannah and Her Sisters.Nominated for best director for Manhattan, Crimes and Misdemeanors.Nominated for best screenplay for Zelig, Radio Days, Crimes and Misdemeanors, Bullets Over Broadway (with Douglas McGrath).Title sequencesVirtually all of Allen's films since Annie Hall begin with the same style of title sequence, incorporating a series of black and white title cards in a vintage font (most often Windsor) reminiscent mostly of legendary Japanese director Yasujirō Ozu,set to a selection of jazz music that occasionally figures prominently later in the film's story (e.g., Radio Days). Additionally, the cast is placed on one such title card and listed in alphabetical order, and not in the order of the relative "star power" of the actors at the time in which the film was made. This is reminiscent of silent era films. There is one minor variation in Deconstructing Harry, where the titles are weaved in with a looped shot. Another exception to this is Manhattan, which opens with a series of black and white still shots of the city set to Gershwin's "Rhapsody In Blue"; the film's title comes after the opening narration is over.TheaterAlthough best known for his films, Allen has also enjoyed a very successful career in theater. Starting as early as 1960 when Allen was writing sketches for the revue From A to Z. His first great success was Don't Drink the Water which opened in 1968 and ran for 598 performances for almost two years on Broadway.Internet Broadway Database: Don't Drink the Water Production Credits&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; His success continued with Play it Again, Sam which opened in 1969, starring Allen and Diane Keaton. The show played for 453 performances and was nominated for three Tony Awards, although none of the nominations were for Allen's writing or acting.Internet Broadway Database: Play It Again, Sam Production Credits&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;In the 70s, Allen wrote a number of one-act plays, most notably God and Death which were published in his 1975 collection Without Feathers.In 1981 Allen's play The Floating Light Bulb opened on Broadway. The play was a critical success but a commercial flop. Despite two Tony Award nominations, a Tony win for Brian Backer's acting (who also won the 1981 Theatre World Award and a Drama Desk Award for his work) the play only ran 62 performances.Internet Broadway Database: The Floating Light Bulb Production Credits&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; As of January 2008, it is the last Allen work that ran on Broadway.After a long hiatus from the stage Allen returned to the theater in 1995 with the one-act Central Park West, an installment in an evening of theater known as Death Defying Acts that was also made up of new work by David Mamet and Elaine May Death Defying Acts and No One Shall Be Immune — David Mamet Society&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;.For the next couple of years, Allen had no direct involvement with the stage, yet notable productions of his work were being staged. A production of God was staged at the The Bank of Brazil Cultural Center in Rio de Janeiro,http://www.playbill.com/news/article/36475.html&lt;/ref&gt; theatrical adaptations of Allen's films Bullets over Broadway Playbill News: Woody Allen Adaptation Debuts at Italian Theatre Festival, Aug. 1&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; and September Playbill News: Stage Version of Woody Allen's September to Bow in France, Sept. 16&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; were produced in Italy and France, respectably, without Allen's involvement. In 1997 rumors of Allen returning to the theater to write a starring role for his wife Soon-Yi Previn turned out to be false.http://www.playbill.com/news/article/36263.html&lt;/ref&gt;In 2003, Allen finally returned to the stage with Writer's Block, an evening of two one-acts: Old Saybrook and Riverside Drive, that played off-Broadway. The production marked the stage directing debut for Allen.Playbill News: Woody Allen's Writer's Block, with Neuwirth and Reiser, Opens Off-Broadway May 15&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; The production sold out its entire run.Playbill News: Two Weeks Added to Woody Allen's New Play, Second Hand Memory, at Off-Bway's Atlantic&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Also that year, reports of Allen writing the book for a musical based on Bullets over Broadway surfaces, but no show ever formulated.Playbill News: Work Continues of Musical Version of Bullets Over Broadway&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; In 2004 Allen's first full-length play since 1981, A Second Hand Memory.Playbill News: Woody Allen Directs His Second Hand Memory, Opening Nov. 22 Off-Broadway&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; The production was directed by Allen and enjoyed an extended run off-Broadway.In June 2007 it was announced that Allen would make two more creative debuts in the theater, directing a work that he didn't write and directing an opera – a re-intepretation of Puccini's Gianni Schicchi for the Los Angeles Opera, which debuted at the Dorothy Chandler Pavilion on September 6, 2008.RelationshipsHarlene RosenAt age 19, Allen married 16-year-old Harlene Rosen. The marriage lasted five "nettling, unsettling years".Rosen, whom Allen referred to in his standup act as "the Dread Mrs. Allen," later sued Allen for defamation due to comments at a TV appearance shortly after their divorce. Allen tells a different story on his mid-1960s standup album Standup Comic. In his act, Allen said that Rosen sued him because of a joke he made in an interview. Rosen had been sexually assaulted outside her apartment, and according to Allen, the newspapers reported that she "had been violated." In the interview, Allen said, "Knowing my ex-wife, it probably wasn't a moving violation." In a later interview on The Dick Cavett Show, Allen brought the incident up again where he repeated his comments and that the amount that he was being sued for was "$1 million".Louise LasserAllen married Louise Lasser in 1966. Allen and Lasser divorced in 1969 and Allen did not marry again until 1997. Lasser starred in three Allen films after the divorce, Bananas, Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Sex (But Were Afraid to Ask), as well as a brief appearance in Stardust Memories. Allen is alleged to have loosely based aspects of the 'Harriet Harman' character from Husbands and Wives (the "kamikaze woman") on his relationship with Lasser. Diane KeatonIn 1970, Allen cast Diane Keaton in his Broadway play Play It Again, Sam, which had a successful run. During this time she became romantically involved with Allen and appeared in a number of his films, including Annie Hall. Keaton starred in Play It Again, Sam as Tony Roberts's lover. Although Allen and Keaton broke up after a year, she starred in a number of his films after their relationship had ended including Sleeper as a futuristic poet; and in Love and Death as a composite character based on the novels of Tolstoy and Dostoevsky. Annie Hall was very important in Allen and Keaton's careers. Not only that, but it is said that the role was written especially for her, and even the title speaks to this as Diane Keaton's given name is Diane Hall. She then starred in Interiors as a poet again, followed by Manhattan. In 1987 she had a cameo as a night club singer in Radio Days and was chosen to replace Mia Farrow in the co-starring role for Manhattan Murder Mystery after Allen and Farrow ended their personal and working relationship while making this film. Keaton has not worked with Allen since Manhattan Murder Mystery, although they remain good friends.Stacey NelkinThe film Manhattan is said to have been based on his romantic relationship with the actress Stacey Nelkin. Her bit part in Annie Hall ended up on the cutting room floor, and their relationship, though never publicly acknowledged by Allen, reportedly began when she was seventeen years old and a student at New York's Stuyvesant High School.Fox, Julian. Woody: Movies from Manhattan. New York: Overlook Press, 1996. 111-112Baxter, John. Woody Allen: A Biography. New York: Caroll & Graf., 1998. 226, 248, 249, 250, 253, 273-4, 385, 416Bailey, Peter J. The Reluctant Film Art of Woody Allen. Lexington: University Press of Kentucky, 2001. 61Mia FarrowStarting around 1980, Allen began a 12-year relationship with actress Mia Farrow, who had leading roles in several of his movies from 1982 to 1992. Farrow and Allen never married, but they adopted two children together: Dylan Farrow (who changed her name to Eliza and is now known as Malone) and Misha Farrow (now known as Moses); and had one biological child, Satchel Farrow (now known as Ronan Seamus Farrow). Allen did not adopt any of Farrow's other biological and adopted children, including Soon-Yi Farrow Previn (the adopted daughter of Farrow and André Previn, now known as Soon-Yi Previn). Allen and Farrow separated in 1992 after Farrow discovered nude photographs Allen had taken of Soon-Yi. In her autobiography, What Falls Away (New York: Doubleday, 1997), Farrow says Allen admitted to a relationship with Soon-Yi.After Allen and Farrow separated, a long public legal battle for the custody of their three children began. During the proceedings, Farrow alleged that Allen had sexually molested their adopted daughter Malone, who was then seven years old. The judge eventually concluded that the sex abuse charges were inconclusive,Brozan, Nadine. "Chronicle," The New York Times, May 13, 1994. but called Allen's conduct with Malone "grossly inappropriate". She called the report of the team that investigated the issue "sanitized and, therefore, less credible" and said she had "reservations about the reliability of the report". She also called Allen's conduct with Soon-Yi "inappropriate". Farrow ultimately won the custody battle over their children. Allen was denied visitation rights with Malone and could only see Ronan under supervision. Misha, who was then 14, chose not to see his father.In a 2005 Vanity Fair interview,Biskind, Peter. "Reconstructing Woody," Vanity Fair, December 2005 http://www.vanityfair.com/culture/features/2005/12/woodyallen200512 Allen estimated that, despite the scandal's damage to his reputation, Farrow's discovery of Allen's attraction to Soon-Yi Previn, by accidentally finding nude photographs of her, was "just one of the fortuitous events, one of the great pieces of luck in my life. ... It was a turning point for the better". Of his relationship with Farrow, he said "I'm sure there are things that I might have done differently. ... Probably in retrospect I should have bowed out of that relationship much earlier than I did".Soon-Yi PrevinShortly after breaking his relationship from Farrow in 1992, Allen continued his relationship with Soon-Yi Previn, Farrow's adopted daughter. Even though Allen never married or lived with Farrow, and was never Previn's stepfather, the relationship between Allen and Previn has often been referred to a father dating his stepdaughter. Despite assertions from Previn that Allen was never a father-figure to her, the relationship drew much public and media scrutiny. At the time, Allen was 56 and Previn was 22.Allen and Previn married in 1997. The couple later adopted two daughters, naming them Bechet and Manzie after jazz musicians Sidney Bechet and Manzie Johnson.and Simon Wettenhall performing at Vienne Jazz Festival, Vienne, France.]]Clarinet hobbyAllen is a passionate fan of jazz which is often featured prominently in his movies' soundtracks. He has played the clarinet since adolescence and chose his stage name from an idol, famed clarinetist Woody Herman. He has performed publicly at least since the late-1960s, notably with the Preservation Hall Jazz Band on the soundtrack of Sleeper. One of his earliest televised performances was on The Dick Cavett Show on October 20, 1971.Woody Allen and his New Orleans Jazz Band play every Monday evening at Manhattan's Carlyle Hotel, specializing in classic New Orleans jazz from the early twentieth century. The documentary film Wild Man Blues (directed by Barbara Kopple) documents a 1996 European tour by Allen and his band, as well as his relationship with Previn. The band has released two CDs: The Bunk Project (1993) and the soundtrack of Wild Man Blues (1997).Allen and his band played the Montreal Jazz Festival on two consecutive nights in June 2008.Work about or inspired by Woody AllenApart from Wild Man Blues directed by Barbara Kopple, there are a number of other documentaries featuring Woody Allen, including: the 2002 cable-television documentary Woody Allen: a Life in Film, directed by Time Magazine film critic Richard Schickel, which interlaces interviews of Allen with clips of his films; and Meetin' WA, a short interview of Allen by French director Jean-Luc Godard.Waiting for Woody Allen is a 2004 short film parody of Samuel Beckett's Waiting for Godot. From 1976 to 1984, Stuart Hample wrote and drew Inside Woody Allen, a comic strip based on Allen's film persona. Central Park West Stories, (Baldini Castoldi Dalai publisher, 2005) by Glauco Della Sciucca (Italian contributor to Columbia Journalism Review, The New Yorker, The Jewish Week, since September 2003) are inspired by Allen. "Death of an Interior Decorator" is a song on Death Cab for Cutie's album Transatlanticism that was inspired by Woody Allen's Interiors. In Love Creeps, a novel by Amanda Filipacchi, a group of birders in Central Park spot Woody Allen and Soon-Yi stepping out onto their balcony and get very excited, which torments a nearby group of recovering stalkers from Stalkaholics Anonymous, causing one of them to suddenly lose his sobriety by grabbing the binoculars from around the neck of a birder to stare at Woody Allen and Soon-Yi.The character George Costanza, from the sitcom Seinfeld, was originally performed as a caricature of Woody Allen, according to Jason Alexander. In one episode of Seinfeld, Cosmo Kramer talks about being a cast member of Allen's movie project and his famous oneliner "These pretzels are making me thirsty".In 2003 Keith Black wrote, directed and starred in the award winning film Get the Script to Woody Allen.Get The Script To Woody Allen&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; The feature was about a neurotic young man who is obsessed with getting his script to Woody.The independent 2008 movie Mancattanhttp://www.mancattan.co.uk&lt;/ref&gt; written and directed by Phil Drinkwater and Colin Warhurst charts the story of the two directors, playing fictional versions of themselves, flying over to New York from their native Manchester in order to make a documentary about Woody Allen. The film within a film is set against the backdrop of a bittersweet romantic comedy as the film cuts between events in Manhattan and flashbacks of Manchester.PsychoanalysisAllen spent at least 30 years undergoing psychoanalysis, sometimes going three days a week. Many of his films contain a psychoanalysis scene. Even the film Antz, an animated feature in which Allen contributes the voice of lead character Z, opens with a classic piece of Allen analysis schtick.Moment Magazine says "it drove his self-absorbed work." John Baxter, author of Woody Allen - A Biography, wrote: "Like Catholic confession, Allen's form of analysis let the penitent go free to sin again," and that "Allen obviously found analysis stimulating, even exciting."Allen says he ended his psychotherapy visits around the time he began his relationship with Previn. He says he still is claustrophobic and agoraphobic.FilmographyTheater worksIn addition to directing, writing, and acting in films, Allen has written and performed in a number of Broadway theater productions.YearTitleCreditVenue1960From A to ZWriter (book)—1966Don't Drink the Water]]''Writer—1969Play It Again, Sam]]''Writer, performer (Allan Felix)Broadhurst TheatreExternal links Good Small Films (Unofficial Woodypedia and blog)WoodyAllen.com (Unofficial)Woody Allen Collection at the Harry Ransom Humanities Research Center at the University of Texas at Austin.   Category:1935 births Category:American adoptive parents Category:American Dixieland revivalists Category:American jazz clarinetists Category:American Jews Category:American atheists Category:American screenwriters Category:American short story writers Category:American stand-up comedians Category:American vegetarians Category:BAFTA winners (people) Category:Best Director Academy Award winners Category:Best Original Screenplay Academy Award winners Category:César Award winners Category:Dixieland revivalist clarinetists Category:English-language film directors Category:Jewish actors Category:Jewish American film directors Category:Jewish American writers Category:Jewish atheists Category:Jewish comedy and humor Category:Living people Category:New York actors Category:O. Henry Award winners Category:People from Brooklynar:وودي آلن ast:Woody Allen az:Vudi Allen bn:উডি অ্যালেন be-x-old:Вудзі Ален bs:Woody Allen br:Woody Allen bg:Уди Алън ca:Woody Allen cs:Woody Allen cy:Woody Allen da:Woody Allen de:Woody Allen et:Woody Allen el:Γούντι Άλεν es:Woody Allen eo:Woody Allen eu:Woody Allen fa:وودی آلن fr:Woody Allen ga:Woody Allen gl:Woody Allen ko:우디 앨런 hr:Woody Allen id:Woody Allen is:Woody Allen it:Woody Allen he:וודי אלן ka:ვუდი ალენი la:Woody Allen lt:Woody Allen hu:Woody Allen mr:वूडी ऍलन nl:Woody Allen ja:ウディ・アレン no:Woody Allen nn:Woody Allen pl:Woody Allen pt:Woody Allen ro:Woody Allen qu:Woody Allen ru:Вуди Аллен sq:Woody Allen scn:Woody Allen simple:Woody Allen sk:Woody Allen sl:Woody Allen szl:Woody Allen sr:Вуди Ален sh:Woody Allen fi:Woody Allen sv:Woody Allen ta:வூடி அலன் vi:Woody Allen tr:Woody Allen uk:Вуді Аллен yi:וואדי עלען zh:伍迪·艾伦