 |author = Francisco Borja da Costa |lyrics_date = 1975 |composer = Afonso de Araujo |music_date = 1975 |adopted = 2002 |until = |sound = National anthem of East Timor.ogg |sound_title = Pátria (instrumental) "Pátria" ("Fatherland" in Portuguese) is the national anthem of the Democratic Republic of East Timor. It was first used on November 28, 1975 when East Timor unilaterally declared independence from Portugal, shortly before the Indonesian invasion on December 7.Following Indonesia's withdrawal and the transition to independence under UN administration, it was adopted as the national anthem on independence on May 20, 2002.The music was composed by Afonso de Araujo, and the words were written by the poet Francisco Borja da Costa, who was killed on the day of the invasion. It is only sung in Portuguese, there is as yet no version in Tetum, the country's national and co-official language.Portuguese lyricsPátria, Pátria, Timor-Leste, nossa Nação.  Glória ao povo e aos heróis da nossa libertação. Pátria, Pátria, Timor-Leste, nossa Nação.  Glória ao povo e aos heróis da nossa libertação. Vencemos o colonialismo, gritamos: abaixo o imperialismo.  Terra livre, povo livre,  não, não, não à exploitação.  Avante unidos firmes e decididos. Na luta contra o imperialismo o inimigo dos povos, até à vitória final. Pelo caminho da revolução.English translationFatherland, fatherland, East Timor our Nation Glory to the people and to the heroes of our liberation Fatherland, fatherland, East Timor our Nation Glory to the people and to the heroes of our liberation We vanquish colonialism, we cry: down with imperialism! Free land, free people, no, no no to exploitation. Let us go forward, united, firm and determined  In the struggle against imperialism, the enemy of people,  until final victory, onward to revolution.Composed 1975Adopted 2002External linksTimor Crocodilo Voador - This Brazil based website about East Timor information includes an .mp3 file of the Full Anthem.Welcome to Timor Leste - The Official Tourism website of East Timor features its own version of the anthem, which uses only the chorus. Category:East Timorese music Category:National symbols of East Timor Category:National anthems Category:Portuguese-language songszh-min-nan:Pátria bg:Химн на Източен Тимор de:Pátria el:Pátria es:Pátria fr:Pátria ko:동티모르의 국가 id:Pátria he:המנון מזרח טימור jv:Pátria lt:Rytų Timoro himnas ms:Patria nl:Pátria ja:東ティモールの国歌 no:Pátria pl:Hymn Timoru Wschodniego pt:Hino nacional de Timor-Leste ru:Гимн Восточного Тимора fi:Pátria tet:Pátria