  Quaestors were originally appointed by the consuls to investigate criminal acts and determine if the consul needed to take public action. Quaestors eventually took on additional responsibilities, such as supervising the treasury (for which they are best known), and became elected magistrates. The office of Quaestor was adopted as part of the Cursus honorum.Quaestors were elected officials of the Roman Republic who supervised the treasury and financial affairs of the state, its armies and its officers. The office may date back to the time of the Kingdom of Rome. By about 420 BC there were four Quaestors, elected each year by the Comitia Tributa, and after 267 BC there were ten. Some Quaestors were assigned to work in the City, while others were assigned to the staffs of generals or served the Roman Governors as Lieutenant Governors in the provinces. Still others were assigned to oversee military finances.During the reforms of Sulla in 81 BC, the minimum age for a quaestorship was set at 30 for patricians and at 32 for plebeians, and election to the quaestorship gave automatic membership in the Senate. Before that, the censors revised the rolls of the Senate less regularly than the annual induction of quaestors created. The number of quaestors was also raised to 20.Today the title of Quaestor (Questore) persists in Italy and it represents a high Police office. It is also present in Romania as "Chestor" and it is also a police office. The European Parliament has six Quaestors to look after the financial and administrative needs of its members. Some ancient British universities, such as the University of St Andrews, still have a Quaestor whose responsibilities are in leading and developing effective and efficient financial control and management within the University.See alsoConstitution of the Roman RepublicCursus honorumRoman RepublicSources of Further ReadingBourne, Frank (Princeton University). "A History of the Romans" Boston, MA. 1967, D.C. Heath and CompanyExternal linksList of quaestorsCategory:Ancient Roman titles Category:Latin political phrasesbs:Kvestor bg:Квестор ca:Qüestor cs:Quaestor da:Kvæstor de:Quaestur es:Cuestor fr:Questeur gl:Cuestor ko:재무관 it:Questore (storia romana) he:קוואיסטור ka:კვესტორი lt:Kvestorius hu:Quaestor mk:Квестор nl:Quaestor (Rome) ja:クァエストル no:Kvestor pl:Kwestor pt:Questor ro:Chestor ru:Квестор sr:Квестор sh:Kvestor fi:Kvestori sv:Quaestor tr:Quaestor zh:財務官