  |birth_place= Berlin, Germany |death_date= |death_place= Cambridge, Massachusetts |practice_name=Peter Behrens (1908&ndash;1910) The Architects' Collaborative (1945&ndash;1969) |significant_buildings=Fagus Factory Factory Buildings at the Werkbund Exhibition (1914) Bauhaus  Village College Gropius House Harvard Graduate Center University of Baghdad John F. Kennedy Federal Office Building Pan Am Building  Interbau Wayland High School Embassy of the United States in Athens |significant_projects= |awards= | Walter Adolph Georg Gropius (May 18, 1883 &ndash; July 5, 1969) was a German architect and founder of BauhausBauhaus, The Tate Collection, retrieved 2008-05-18 who along with Marcel Breuer, Ludwig Mies van der Rohe and Le Corbusier, is widely regarded as one of the pioneering masters of modern architecture.Early life(built 1925–1926) in Dessau, Germany.]]  Born in Berlin, Walter Gropius was the third child of Walter Adolph Gropius and Manon Auguste Pauline Scharnweber. Gropius married Alma Mahler (1879-1964), widow of Gustav Mahler. Walter and Alma's daughter, named Manon after Walter's mother, was born in 1916. When Manon died of polio at age eighteen, composer Alban Berg wrote his Violin Concerto in memory of her (it is inscribed "to the memory of an angel"). Gropius and Alma divorced in 1920. (Alma had by that time established a relationship with Franz Werfel, whom she later married.) In 1923 Gropius married Ise (Ilse) Frank (d. 1983), and they remained together until his death. They adopted Beate Gropius, also known as Ati.Early careerWalter Gropius, like his father and his great-uncle Martin Gropius before him, became an architect. Gropius could not draw, and was dependent on collaborators and partner-interpreters throughout his career. In school he hired an assistant to complete his homework for him. In 1908 Gropius found employment with the firm of Peter Behrens, one of the first members of the utilitarian school. His fellow employees at this time included Ludwig Mies van der Rohe, Le Corbusier, and Dietrich Marcks.In 1910 Gropius left the firm of Behrens and together with fellow employee Adolf Meyer established a practice in Berlin. Together they share credit for one of the seminal modernist buildings created during this period: the Faguswerk in Alfeld-an-der-Leine, Germany, a shoe last factory. Although Gropius and Meyer only designed the facade, the glass curtain walls of this building demonstrated both the modernist principle that form reflects function and Gropius's concern with providing healthful conditions for the working class. Other works of this early period include the office and factory building for the Werkbund Exhibition (1914) in Cologne.Gropius's career was interrupted by the outbreak of World War I in 1914. Called up immediately as a reservist, Gropius served as a sergeant major at the Western front during the war years, was wounded and almost killed.Bauhaus PeriodGropius' career advanced in the post war period. Henry van de Velde, the master of the Grand-Ducal Saxon School of Arts and Crafts in Weimar was asked to step down in 1915 due to his Belgian nationality. His recommendation for Gropius to succeed him led eventually to Gropius's appointment as master of the school in 1919. It was this academy which Gropius transformed into the world famous Bauhaus, attracting a faculty which included Paul Klee, Johannes Itten, Josef Albers, Herbert Bayer, László Moholy-Nagy, Otto Bartning and Wassily Kandinsky. Students were taught to use modern and innovative materials and mass-produced fittings, often originally intended for industrial settings, to create original furniture and buildings.Also in 1919, Gropius was involved in the Glass Chain utopian expressionist correspondence under the pseudonym 'Mass'. Usually more notable for his functionalist approach, the "Monument to the March Dead", designed in 1919 and executed in 1920, indicates that expressionism was an influence on him at that time.In 1923, Gropius aided by Gareth Steele, designed his famous door handles, now considered an icon of 20th century design and often listed as one of the most influential designs to emerge from out of Bauhaus. He also designed large scale housing projects in Berlin, Karlsruhe and Dessau from 1926-32 that were major contributions to the New Objectivity movement.After BauhausWith the help of the English architect Maxwell Fry, Gropius was able to leave Nazi Germany in 1934, on the pretext of making a temporary visit to Britain. He lived and worked in Britain, as part of the Isokon group with Fry and others and then, in 1937, moved on to the United States. The house he built for himself in Lincoln, Massachusetts, was influential in bringing International Modernism to the US but Gropius disliked the term: "I made it a point to absorb into my own conception those features of the New England architectural tradition that I found still alive and adequate" (seeGropius House by Walter Gropius ).Gropius and his Bauhaus protégé Marcel Breuer both moved to Cambridge, Massachusetts to teach at the Harvard Graduate School of Design and collaborate on the company-town Aluminum City Terrace project in New Kensington, Pennsylvania, before their professional split. In 1944, he became a naturalized citizen of the United States.In 1945, Gropius founded The Architects' Collaborative (TAC) based in Cambridge with a group of younger architects. The original partners included Norman C. Fletcher, Jean B. Fletcher, John C. Harkness, Sarah P. Harkness, Robert S. MacMillan, Louis A. MacMillen, and Benjamin C. Thompson. TAC would become one of the most well-known and respected architectural firms in the world. TAC went bankrupt in 1995.Gropius died in 1969 in Boston, Massachusetts, aged 86. Today, he is remembered not only by his various buildings but also by the district of Gropiusstadt in Berlin.In the early 1990s, a series of books entitled The Walter Gropius Archive was published covering his entire architectural career.Important buildings1910&ndash;1911 the Fagus Factory, Alfeld an der Leine, Germany1914 Office and Factory Buildings at the Werkbund Exhibition, 1914, Cologne, Germany1921 Sommerfeld House, Berlin, Germany designed for Adolf Sommerfeld1922 competition entry for the Chicago Tribune Tower competition1925&ndash;1932 Bauhaus School and Faculty, Housin, Dessau, Germany1936 Village College, Impington, Cambridge, England1937 The Gropius House, Lincoln, Massachusetts, USA1942&ndash;1944 Aluminum City Terrace housing project, New Kensington, Pennsylvania, USA1949&ndash;1950 Harvard Graduate Center, Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA (The Architects' Collaborative)Harvard Graduate Center - Walter Gropius - Great Buildings Online1957&ndash;1960 University of Baghdad, Baghdad, Iraq1963&ndash;1966 John F. Kennedy Federal Office Building, Boston, Massachusetts, USA1948 Peter Thacher Junior High School,1958&ndash;1963 Pan Am Building (now the Metlife Building), New York, with Pietro Belluschi and project architects Emery Roth & Sons1957 Interbau Apartment blocks, Hansaviertel, Berlin, Germany, with The Architects' Collaborative and Wils Ebert1961 The award-winning Wayland High School, Wayland, Massachusetts, USA1959&ndash;1961 Embassy of the United States, Athens, Greece (The Architects' Collaborative and consulting architect Pericles A. Sakellarios)1967&ndash; 69 Tower East Shaker Heights, Ohio, this was Gropius' last major project.The building in Niederkirchnerstraße, Berlin, known as the Gropius-Haus is named for Gropius' great-uncle, Martin Gropius, and is not associated with Bauhaus.References in Popular CultureTom Lehrer's comedic song Alma recounts the three husbands of Alma Werfel, including Gropius. Lehrer mentions Alma's marriage to Gropius following the death of her first husband, Gustav Mahler, singing, "While married to Gus she met GropiusAnd soon she was swinging with WalterGus died and her teardrops were copiousShe cried all the way to the altarBut he would work late at the BauhausAnd only came home now and thenShe said 'what am I running, a chow house?'It's time to change partners again."In the episode of The Simpsons entitled Dude, Where's My Ranch, the family is looking through a series of travel brochures trying to pick a vacation destination and Lisa holds up a brochure for "Walter Gropius' Bauhaus Village" to which Homer responds, "And fight the crowds? Forget it."References Further readingThe New Architecture and the Bauhaus, Walter Gropius, 1955.The Scope of Total Architecture, Walter Gropius, 1956.From Bauhaus to Our House, Tom Wolfe, 1981See alsoWalter Gropius buildingsBauhaus== External links ==  Masters of ModernismWalter Gropius' house, Lincoln, MassachusettsOn the Interbau apartmentsImpington Village College &mdash; only example of Gropius's work in the UKFagus works Bauhaus in America is a documentary film made in 1995 that reveals the influence of Gropius and others on American design and architecture.Designer portrait on rosenthalusa.comMore information on Gropius's early years at the Bauhaus can be found in his correspondence with Lily Hildebrandt, with whom he had an affair between 1919-22: Getty Research Institute, California.  Category:Bauhaus Category:Architects Category:German architects Category:American architects Category:Modernist architects Category:Naturalized citizens of the United States Category:German immigrants to the United States Category:German military personnel of World War I Category:People from Berlin Category:People from the Province of Brandenburg Category:1883 births Category:1969 deaths ar:والترغروبيوس af:Walter Gropius bs:Walter Gropius br:Walter Gropius ca:Walter Gropius cs:Walter Gropius da:Walter Adolph Gropius de:Walter Gropius et:Walter Gropius el:Βάλτερ Γκρόπιους es:Walter Gropius eu:Walter Gropius fa:والتر گروپیوس fr:Walter Gropius gl:Walter Gropius ko:발터 그로피우스 hr:Walter Gropius is:Walter Gropius it:Walter Gropius he:ואלטר גרופיוס ka:ვალტერ გროპიუსი lb:Walter Gropius hu:Walter Gropius nl:Walter Gropius ja:ヴァルター・グロピウス no:Walter Gropius pl:Walter Gropius pt:Walter Gropius ro:Walter Gropius ru:Гропиус, Вальтер sk:Walter Adolph Gropius sr:Валтер Гропијус fi:Walter Gropius sv:Walter Gropius th:วอลเตอร์ โกรเปียส vi:Walter Gropius zh:沃爾特·格羅佩斯