 &lt;/ref&gt; |Born =  |Origin = Caboolture, Australia |Instrument = VocalsElectric guitarAcoustic guitarGanjoPianoBass guitarMandolinBouzoukiPercussion |Genre = Country |Occupation = Singer-songwriter |Years_active = 1990-present |Label = Capitol Nashville |Associated_acts = The Ranch Ronnie Dunn John Butler Trio Olivia Newton-John Nelly Furtado |URL = http://www.keithurban.net/  Keith Lionel Urban (born 26 October 1967 in Whangarei, New Zealand), is an Australian Grammy- and ARIA-winning country music singer, songwriter and guitarist whose commercial success has been mainly in the United States. Urban began his career in Tamworth, Australia participating in Tamworth Country Music Festival, having moved there at an early age. In 1991, he released a self-titled debut album, and charted four singles in Australia before moving to the United States in 1992. Eventually, Urban found work as a session guitarist before starting a band known as The Ranch, which recorded one studio album on Capitol Records and charted two singles on the Billboard country charts.Still signed to Capitol, he made his solo American debut in 1999 with the album Keith Urban. Certified platinum in the U.S., it also produced his first American Number One in "But for the Grace of God". His breakthrough hit was the Number One "Somebody Like You", from his second Capitol album Golden Road (2002). This album also earned Urban his first Grammy Award win for "You'll Think of Me", its fourth single and the third Billboard Number One of his career. 2004's Be Here, his third American album, produced three more Number Ones, and became his highest-selling album, earning 4&times; Multi-Platinum certification. Love, Pain &amp; the Whole Crazy Thing was released in 2006, producing the record-setting #17 country chart debut of "Once in a Lifetime", as well as Urban's second Grammy for the song "Stupid Boy", while a Greatest Hits package entitled Greatest Hits: 18 Kids followed in late 2007. This album was re-released a year later as Greatest Hits: 19 Kids with one track added: the number one "You Look Good in My Shirt", which he had previously recorded on Golden Road.Urban has released a total of seven studio albums (one of which was released only in the United Kingdom), as well as one album in The Ranch. He has charted more than fifteen singles on the U.S. country charts, including eight Number Ones. Urban plays acoustic and electric guitar, as well as ganjo,bass guitar, mandolin, piano, and bouzouki.Biography Keith Urban was born in Whangarei, New Zealand, though later moved with his parents to Caboolture, Queensland, Australia. By age seven, Urban was already thinking about getting into the music business. He began learning the techniques at age six and began winning young singing contests by age eight. In 1990, Urban signed with EMI in Australia and recorded his first solo album, which charted four No. 1 country hits in Australia. In 1992, he moved to Nashville, Tennessee, where he found work as a guitarist for Brooks &amp; Dunn and can be seen backing Alan Jackson in his music video for "Mercury Blues". Later, Urban formed The Ranch, a three-piece group that released one album in 1997. Originally the front man for The Ranch, Urban disbanded the group to pursue a solo career in 1998. In 1999, Urban found "Vocal Coach to the Stars" Brett Manning, and worked with him up until 2001.In Nashville, Urban became a frequent user of cocaine.&quot;Up from Down Under&quot; by Stephanie Mansfield, USA WEEKEND, November 4 2001 After reaching a personal nadir in 1998, he became determined to give up the habit and checked into Cumberland Heights, a treatment center in Nashville. After cleaning up, Urban released his self-titled American debut in 1999, which produced three top 5 hits and secured for him the Top New Male Vocalist Award at the 2001 Academy of Country Music Awards and the 2001 Country Music Association's Horizon Award. Widely regarded for his guitar skills, he has performed as a session musician on albums such as Charlie Daniels, Emerson Drive, Garth Brooks' Double Live, Dixie Chicks' Fly, and Paul Brandt's This Time Around.Urban released Golden Road in 2002, and the success of the single "Somebody Like You" sent his career into high gear. Touring as a supporting act for renowned country acts Brooks &amp; Dunn, Martina McBride and Kenny Chesney honed Urban's skills and stage-craft. Country video channel CMT signed on as the title sponsor of Urban's first headlining arena tour titled Keith Urban Be Here '04 with opening act Katrina Elam. Urban continued his meteoric rise to fame in 2005 with a very successful tour with Elam called Alive in '05. He performed in the Live 8 Philadelphia concert on July 2 2005 and had been chosen by The Gap to appear alongside seven other musical stars in their "Favorites" campaign. He was named the 2005 CMA's Entertainer of the Year. He released a DVD in late September 2005 entitled Livin' Right Now, recorded in at the Wiltern Theater in California in December 2004.  2005]] In 2005 Urban played in front of European audiences for the first time. In May Urban supported Bryan Adams on his UK and Ireland tour, which included dates in Earls Court, London, SECC, Glasgow and The Point, Dublin. On June 6 a UK only album, Days Go By was released, this album contained songs from both Be Here and Golden Road .In October Urban returned for a headlining tour with Nerina Pallot and Richard Winsland as support acts.Urban has recently performed "Better Life" on the CMA Awards and "You'll Think of Me" on the American Music Awards. He also performed at the Grammys playing "You'll Think of Me" and "The Lucky One" with Faith Hill. At the 2006 ACM Awards Urban performed "Tonight I Wanna Cry" and played guitar for Brooks & Dunn's song "Believe."On Monday August 21, 2006, Urban made history when his new single "Once in a Lifetime" debuted at #17, setting a new record for the highest-debuting country single in the 62-year history of Billboard's country charts. The record was formerly held by Garth Brooks' "Good Ride Cowboy" and Eddie Rabbitt's "Every Which Way But Loose", both of which debuted at #18. "Good Ride Cowboy" was the highest in the BDS era (1990-present).Urban is also a winner of numerous "Golden Guitars", which are presented annually during the Tamworth Country Music Festival at "The Country Music Association of Australia's Annual Awards" in Tamworth, Australia. He is also a former winner of the Toyota Starmaker Contest, which is held each year in conjunction with the CMAA Awards and the Tamworth Country Music Festival.Keith was named artist of the month for July 2007 on the television network GAC (Great American Country). He answered a question of the day every day that month, and did multiple interviews about love, life, his new album and his stay in rehab.On July 7, 2007 (Keith performed with Alicia Keys at one of Al Gore's Live Earth concerts held around the world. The concerts were held to raise awareness of global warming. Keith performed at the concert held in New York City and said in an interview that global warming is not a political issue, and what he is doing to help the environment is running all bio-diesel buses in his Love, Pain and The Whole Crazy World Tour.Urban released his first greatest hits collection, Greatest Hits: 18 Kids, on November 20, 2007. The CD contains all of his top 10 hits, along with two new songs, "Romeo's Tune" and "Got It Right This Time (The Celebration)."In January 2008, Urban embarked on the Love, Pain and the Whole Crazy Carnival Ride Tour with fellow country singer Carrie Underwood. In early May 2008, Urban debuted a new song at the Grand Ole Opry titled "A New Sunshine". It is not known whether or not the song will appear on his upcoming album slated for an early 2009 release. And in late May 2008, Urban re-recorded a song from his sophomore CD, "You Look Good in My Shirt". The song was released on the radio at the end of May. "Over the years it ("You Look Good In My Shirt") has always played like a hit song," said Keith. "That, combined with numerous requests from both fans and radio about why it was never a single, inspired us to get back into the studio and re-record the song."(keithurban.net) The single is a pre-cursor to the as of late-May 2008 untitled "Love, Pain & the Whole Crazy World Tour" concert DVD release in the Fall of '08. Urban is currently writing for a new CD to hit sometime in early 2009."You Look Good in My Shirt" was the first single from Keith Urban's re-recorded 2007 album, Greatest Hits: 18 Kids. The album was released under a different title, Greatest Hits: 19 Kids on August 19, 2008. Keith Urban will also be featured on Brad Paisley's upcoming instrumental album titled Play, on a song called "Start a Band."Personal lifeIn 1992, Urban dated veterinary technician Laura Sigler for eight years. Urban proposed to Sigler in 2001 but the pair eventually split in 2002.Urban also dated former supermodel Niki Taylor on and off from 2002-2004.Urban met Australian actress Nicole Kidman at G'Day LA, a Hollywood event honouring Australians, in January 2005 but they didn't begin dating until 6 months later. Kidman and Urban were married on Sunday June 25, 2006, at the Cardinal Cerretti Memorial Chapel in the grounds of St Patrick's Estate, Manly in Sydney.On Oct. 19, 2006, Urban checked himself into the Betty Ford Center in California. On Oct. 20, Urban issued a statement saying: "I deeply regret the hurt this has caused Nicole and the ones who love and support me. One can never let one's guard down on recovery, and I'm afraid that I have." On Jan. 18, 2007, Urban announced his completion of rehab and his plans to go on tour to promote his new album, Love, Pain &amp; the Whole Crazy Thing. BBC NEWS | Entertainment | Singer Urban ends rehab treatment&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;.On Feb. 2, 2007, Urban filed a lawsuit on a New Jersey painter by the same name, who has a web site http://www.keithurban.com. The singer wants to acquire the rights to the URLKeith Urban sues Keith Urban over web site. Keith Urban the singer's URL is http://www.keithurban.net. The painter has countersued. [http://www.tennessean.com/apps/pbcs.dll/article?AID=/20070405/ENTERTAINMENT06/70405027 Keel, Beverly, "Keith Urban countersues Keith Urban", The Tennessean]On October 1, 2007, while headed to an Alcoholics Anonymous meeting, Urban skidded off of his motorbike when a paparazzo followed him near his home in Sydney; Urban was not hurt. In a statement released by his publicists, Urban says the incident was "the result of one person's desire to do his job and my desire to maintain my privacy." Urban says he tried to avoid an oncoming car and dropped his bike. He says the photographer came to his assistance without taking photos.On January 7, 2008, Nicole Kidman confirmed that she and Urban were expecting their first child together. Kidman's publicist said that "the couple are thrilled and cannot wait." A July due date was announced. Kidman gave birth to their first child, a daughter, Sunday Rose Kidman Urban, on July 7, 2008, in Nashville, Tennessee. She weighed 6lbs. 7.5oz. On his website Keith stated,  "Earlier this morning Nic gave birth to our beautiful baby girl, Sunday Rose Kidman Urban. We want to thank everybody that has kept us in their thoughts and prayers. We feel very blessed and grateful that we can share this joy with all of you today."Keith Urban.net | Keith Welcomes Sunday Rose Kidman Urban! DiscographyAwards &amp; honorsYearAward ProgramAward1977Country Music Awards of AustraliaBest Solo Act (junior)1978Special Encouragement Award (10 years & under)1980Best Junior Guitarist1981Best Gospel Singer1982Best DuetBest Junior Guitarist1983Junior Male Vocalist1990Star Maker Award1991Golden Guitar AwardBest New Talent1992Golden Guitar AwardMale Vocalist of the YearGolden Guitar Award (instrumentalist)199719982001Academy of Country Music AwardsTop New Male VocalistCountry Music Association AwardsHorizon AwardARIA AwardsOutstanding Achievement awardVMA AwardsMale Vocalist award2003ARIA AwardsGolden Road]]''BMI Awards]]Song of the Year; "Somebody Like You"TCMA AwardsVideo Clip of the Year; "Somebody Like You"2004Country Music Association AwardsMale Vocalist of the YearFCMA AwardsBest Foreign Music2005Academy of Country Music AwardsAlbum of the Year; Be HereTop Male VocalistFrench Association of Country MusicArtist of the YearARIA AwardsCountry Album of the Year; Be HereCountry Music Association AwardsMale Vocalist of the YearEntertainer of the YearInternational Artist of the YearBillboard Awards]]''Top-selling Pop Catalog Album of the Year; Golden Road2006Grammy AwardsBest Male Country Vocal Performance; "You'll Think of Me"Academy of Country Music AwardsTop Male VocalistFrench Association of Country MusicBest Live PerformanceCountry Music Association AwardsMale Vocalist of the Year2007ARIA AwardsAlbum of the Year; Love, Pain &amp; the Whole Crazy Thing2008Grammy AwardsStupid Boy]]"NotesExternal linksKeith Urban's official website  Category:1967 births Category:ARIA Award winners Category:Australian country guitarists Category:Australian country singers Category:Australian country singer-songwriters Category:Australian expatriates in the United States Category:Australian multi-instrumentalists Category:Australians of New Zealand descent Category:Capitol Records artists Category:Grammy Award winners Category:Living people Category:People from Whangareide:Keith Urban es:Keith Urban fr:Keith Urban it:Keith Urban la:Keith Urban nl:Keith Urban ja:キース・アーバン no:Keith Urban pl:Keith Urban sv:Keith Urban zh:凯斯·艾尔本