Alcide Charles Victor Marie Dessalines d'Orbigny (September 6, 1802 - June 30, 1857) was a great French naturalist. He made major contributions in many areas, including zoology, malacology, palaeontology, geology, archaeology and anthropology.D'Orbigny was born in Couëron (Loire-Atlantique), the son of a ship's physician and amateur naturalist. The family moved to La Rochelle in 1820, where his interest for natural history was raised, while studying the marine fauna and especially microscopic creatures, that he named "foraminiferans".In Paris he became a disciple of the geologist L.-A. Cordier (1777-1861) and Georges Cuvier. All his life, he would follow the theory of Cuvier and stay opposed to Lamarckism.D'Orbigny travelled, on a mission for the Paris Museum, in South America between 1826 and 1833. He visited Brazil, Argentina, Paraguay, Chile, Bolivia and Peru. He returned to France with an enormous collection of more than 10,000 natural history specimens. He described part of his findings in La Relation du Voyage dans l'Amérique Méridionale. His contemporary, Charles Darwin called this book "one of the great monuments of science in the 19th century". The other specimens were described by zoologists at the museum.In 1840, d'Orbigny started the methodical description of French fossils and published La Paléontologie Française (8 vols).In 1849 he published another major work, Prodrome de Paléontologie Stratigraphique. In this book he described almost 18,000 species.In 1853 he became professor of palaeontology at the Paris Muséum National d'Histoire Naturelle. The chair of paleontology was created especially in his honor.He described as first the geological timescales. He defined numerous geological strata, still used today as chronostratigraphic reference such as Toarcian, Callovian, Oxfordian, Kimmeridgian, Aptian, Albian and Cenomanian.He died in the small town of Pierrefitte-sur-Seine, near Paris.The following genera and species were named in his honor :Nerocila orbignyi (Guérin, 1832)Alcidia Bourguignat, 1889Ampullaria dorbignyana Philippi, 1851Pinna dorbignyi Hanley, 1858Haminoea orbignyana A. de Férussac, 1822Pink Cuttlefish, Sepia orbignyana Férussac, 1826Orbignya speciosa (Mart. ex Spreng.) Barb.Rodr. - Brazilian Palmtree "Babaçu"External linksGallica Digital versions of some d'Orbigny works The French word for Search is Recherche.Universel d'Histoire Naturelle Google Books  Category:1802 births Category:1857 deaths Category:French zoologists Category:French entomologists Category:French paleontologistsde:Alcide Dessalines d’Orbigny es:Alcide d'Orbigny eu:Alcide d'Orbigny fr:Alcide Dessalines d'Orbigny it:Alcide Dessalines d'Orbigny la:Alcides de Orbigny nl:Alcide d’Orbigny pl:Alcide d'Orbigny pt:Alcide Dessalines d'Orbigny ro:Alcide Dessalines d'Orbigny fi:Alcide d'Orbigny sv:Alcide Dessalines d'Orbigny