 | birthplace = Munich, West Germany | deathdate = | birthname = Jeri Lynn Zimmermann | othername = | spouse = Jack Ryan (1991 – 1999)Christophe Émé (2007 - present) Jeri Lynn Ryan (born February 22, 1968) is an American actress known for her roles in movies and television. She came to fame as the ex-Borg Seven of Nine on Star Trek: Voyager.BiographyEarly lifeRyan was born Jeri Lynn Zimmermann in Munich, West Germany, the daughter of Gerhard Florian "Jerry" Zimmermann, a master sergeant in the United States Army, and his wife Sharon, a social worker.Jeri Ryan Biography (1968-)&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; She has one older brother, Mark. As a military brat, Ryan grew up on army bases in Kansas, Maryland, Hawaii, Georgia, and Texas.Star Trek Communicator magazine When she was eleven, her father retired from the Army and the family settled in Paducah, Kentucky. She graduated from high school in 1986 (as a National Merit Scholar), and then attended Northwestern University, where she was a member of the Alpha Phi sorority.In 1989, Ryan was chosen Miss Illinois. She was the third runner-up in the 1990 Miss America Pageant, winning the preliminary swimsuit competition. She graduated from Northwestern in 1990 with a Bachelor of Arts degree in Theatre.CareerAfter college, she pursued acting full-time in Los Angeles. She made her acting debut in Who's the Boss? and followed that with guest-starring roles in TV shows like Melrose Place, Matlock, and The Sentinel as well as TV movies such as Co-Ed Call Girl.Her big break came when she won a regular role as an extraterrestrial investigator named Juliet Stuart on the TV show Dark Skies. The show was cancelled after one season, but the role had drawn the attention of the science-fiction community.In 1997, Ryan was cast to play Seven of Nine, a Borg drone freed from the collective on the science fiction series Star Trek: Voyager. After Voyager ended in 2001, Ryan joined the cast of Boston Public in the role of Ronnie Cooke, a frustrated lawyer who quits to become a high school teacher. The show's producer, David E. Kelley, wrote the role specifically for her. The show was cancelled in 2004.Ryan has recently appeared in films, such as Down With Love. Ryan played Lydia in the independent film'' Men Cry Bullets'', with a rave review for her performance from Roger Ebert. Jeri then starred in her first film lead in the indie comedy "The Last Man", playing the last woman on Earth, released by Lion's Gate.She also had a recurring role as Charlotte Morgan on The O.C. in the fall of 2005 and guest-starred on David E. Kelley's Boston Legal in 2006. Ryan starred in the CBS legal drama Shark, playing Los Angeles District Attorney Jessica Devlin opposite James Woods, but did not return for episodes aired after the WGA strike. CBS has cancelled the broadcast of the series.Personal lifeIn 1990, while dealing blackjack at a charity event, Jeri met investment banker and future political candidate Jack Ryan. The couple married on June 15, 1991 and had a son, Alex, on August 15, 1994. Throughout the marriage, Ryan and her husband took turns commuting between Los Angeles and Chicago for their careers, but finally divorced on August 27, 1999. Although Ryan mentioned (in an interview for Star Trek) that the frequent separations had been difficult for the marriage; the reasons for the divorce were kept sealed at their mutual request.Five years later, when Jack Ryan's Senate campaign began, the Chicago Tribune newspaper and WLS-TV, the local ABC affiliate, sought to have the records released. Both Jeri and Jack agreed to make their divorce records public, but not the custody records, claiming that their release could be harmful to their son.On June 22, 2004, Los Angeles Superior Court Judge Robert Schnider agreed to release the custody files. The decision generated much controversy because it went against both parents' direct request and because it generally reversed the early decision to seal the papers in the best interest of the child. It was revealed that six years previously, Jeri had accused Jack Ryan of asking her to perform sexual acts with him in public, and in Sex clubs in New York, New Orleans, and Paris. Jeri Ryan described one as "a bizarre club with cages, whips and other apparatus hanging from the ceiling."Senate Race Sex Scandal Jack Ryan denied these allegations. Although Jeri Ryan refused to comment on the matter during the campaign, the document disclosure led Jack Ryan to withdraw his Republican candidacy for an open United States Senate seat in Illinois.She is presently married to Christophe Eme (16 June 2007 - present) and has a daughter, Gisele Lynn Eme.Ryan's avocation, according to statements she has made in interviews, is gourmet cooking. While starring in Boston Public she moonlighted on weekends in the kitchen of the Los Angeles restaurant The House. In 2003, Ryan met French chef Christophe Émé at a chef's charity event. The two would eventually begin a relationship, and Émé moved in with Ryan and her son Alex in their San Fernando Valley home.Jeri Ryan Trades Power Suits for Maternity Wear In February 2005, Ryan, a "lifelong Francophile", opened&mdash;in partnership with Émé&mdash;the restaurant Ortolan. Located on Third Street in Los Angeles, California, the restaurant serves French food with a modern interpretation. And they have appeared on "Iron Chef America", where Émé and one sous-chef challenged Iron Chef Masaharu Morimoto and his two sous-chefs. Ryan married Émé in the Loire Valley, France, on June 16, 2007.Actress Jeri Ryan Marries French Chef On September 7, 2007, Ryan announced that she and Émé were expecting their first child together, a daughter, in March 2008.Jeri Ryan Expecting a Baby —Pregnancy, Jeri Ryan : People.com&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; On March 2, 2008, Ryan gave birth to daughter Gisele Émé in Los Angeles, California.Jeri Ryan Welcomes a GirlFilmographyFilmsNightmare in Columbia County (1991,TV)Men Cry Bullets (1999)Disney's The Kid (2000)Wes Craven Presents: Dracula 2000 (2000)The Last Man (2002)Down With Love (2003)TelevisionThe Flash (1991)Just Deserts (1992) (TV)In the Line of Duty: Ambush in Waco (1993)Matlock: The Fatal Seduction (1993)Co-ed Call Girl (1996)Pier 66 (1996)Dark Skies (1996)Star Trek: Voyager (1997-2001)The Sentinel (1999)Boston Public (2001-2004)Two and a Half Men (Two Episodes) (2004-2005)The O.C. (2005)Boston Legal (2006)Shark (2006-2008)Computer gamesStar Trek: Voyager Elite Force (2000)Notable awards and nominations1998 Nominated for a Saturn Award for Best Genre TV Actress for her role in Star Trek: Voyager1999 Nominated for a Saturn Award for Best Genre TV Actress for her role in Star Trek: Voyager1999 Won Golden Satellite Award for Best Performance by an Actress in a Television Series--Drama for her role in Star Trek: Voyager2000 Nominated for a Saturn Award for Best Genre TV Supporting Actress for her role in Star Trek: Voyager2001 Won Saturn Award for Best Supporting Actress on Television for her role in Star Trek: VoyagerReferencesExternal linksThe Sex Scandal From Outer Space, Washington Post.BBC Online interviewJeri Ryan Biography, Startrek.comOrtolan Restaurant    Category:1968 births Category:American film actors Category:American television actors Category:Kentucky actors Category:Living people Category:Military brats Category:Sex scandal figures Category:Miss America delegates Category:Northwestern University alumni Category:People from Munichcs:Jeri Ryan da:Jeri Ryan de:Jeri Ryan es:Jeri Ryan fr:Jeri Ryan hr:Jeri Ryan it:Jeri Ryan hu:Jeri Ryan nl:Jeri Ryan pl:Jeri Ryan pt:Jeri Ryan ru:Райан, Джери sl:Jeri Ryan sr:Џери Рајан fi:Jeri Ryan sv:Jeri Ryan tr:Jeri Ryan