   of the carol by Gruber]] "Silent Night" ("Stille Nacht") is a popular Christmas carol. The original lyrics of the song Stille Nacht were written in German by the Austrian priest Father Josef Mohr and the melody was composed by the Austrian headmaster Franz Xaver Gruber. The version of the melody that is generally sung today differs slightly (particularly in the final strain) from Gruber's original. Today, the lyrics and melody are in the public domain.HistoryThe carol was first performed in the Nicola-Kirche (Church of St. Nicholas) in Oberndorf, Austria on December 24, 1818. Mohr had composed the words much earlier, in 1816, but on Christmas Eve brought them to Gruber and asked him to compose a melody and guitar accompaniment for the church service[http://www.bbc.co.uk/religion/religions/christianity/christmas/carols_2.shtml BBC Religion & Ethics.In his written account regarding the composition of the carol, Gruber gives no mention of the specific inspiration for creating the song. According to the song's history provided by Austria's Silent Night Society, one supposition is that the church organ was no longer working so that Mohr and Gruber therefore created a song for accompaniment by guitar. Silent Night historian, Renate Ebeling-Winkler says that the first mention of a broken organ was in a book published in the U.S. in 1909.Some historians believe that Mohr simply wanted a new Christmas carol that he could play on his guitar. The Silent Night Society says that there are "many romantic stories and legends" that add their own anecdotal details to the known facts.The Nicola-Kirche was demolished in the early 1900s due to flood damage and because the town's centre was moved up the river to a safer location, with a new church being built there close to the new bridge. A tiny chapel, called the &quot;Stille-Nacht-Gedächtniskapelle&quot; (Silent Night Memorial Chapel), was built in the place of the demolished church and a nearby house was converted into a museum, attracting tourists from all over the world, not only but primarily in December.The original manuscript has been lost, however a manuscript was discovered in 1995 in Mohr's handwriting and dated by researchers at ca. 1820. It shows that Mohr wrote the words in 1816 when he was assigned to a pilgrim church in Mariapfarr, Austria, and shows that the music was composed by Gruber in 1818. This is the earliest manuscript that exists and the only one in Mohr's handwriting. Gruber's composition was influenced by the musical tradition of his rural domicile. The melody of Silent Night bears resemblance to aspects of Austrian folk music and yodelling.Another popular story claims that the carol, once performed, was promptly forgotten until an organ repairman found the manuscript in 1825 and revived it. However, Gruber published various arrangements of it throughout his lifetime and we now have the Mohr arrangement (ca. 1820) that is kept at the Carolino Augusteum Museum in Salzburg.It is believed that the carol has been translated into over 300 languages and dialects around the world, and it is one of the most popular carols of all time. It is sometimes sung without musical accompaniment. Although written by Catholics, it is given special significance in Lutheranism.The song was sung simultaneously in English and German by troops during the Christmas truceStanley Weintraub Silent Night: The Remarkable Christmas Truce of 1914. New York: Free Press, 2001. of 1914, as it was one of the few carols that soldiers on both sides of the front line knew.The song has been successfully recorded by over 300 artists, particularly successful by Bing Crosby and Mahalia Jackson.A 1988 dramatised television documentary called Silent Mouse tells the story of the creation of the carol from a mouse's point of view. It featured Lynn Redgrave as narrator, and Gregor Fisher in one of the leading roles.LyricsAs translated by John Freeman Young (1820 - 1885) - Out of copyrightHymns Old & New Anglican Edition 1996  Silent night, holy night. All is calm, all is bright Round yon virgin mother and child Holy infant so tender and mild Sleep in heavenly peace Sleep in heavenly peaceSilent night, holy night. Shepherds quake at the sight, Glories stream from heaven afar, Heav'nly hosts sing alleluia: Christ the Saviour is born, Christ the Saviour is born.Silent night, holy night Son of God, love's pure light, Radiant beams from thy holy face, With the dawn of redeeming grace: Jesus, Lord, at thy birth, Jesus, Lord, at thy birth. German Lyrics available at wikichristian.orgSamples    ArrangementsAntonio Zingale composed a new arrangement of "Silent night" for choir and orchestra (2008) and one for clarinet and piano (2008).Bertold Hummel: SILENT NIGHT, 3 Variations for Speaker and mixed Choir a cappella http://www.bertoldhummel.de/english/commentaries/opus_silentnight.htmlExternal linksFree arrangements for piano and voice from Cantorion.org (cc-by-sa)Silent Night Lyrics Christmas Lyrics to Silent Night Christmas Carol / Christmas songStille-Nacht-Association, Salzburg, text and music, verse1 (de), verse4 (de)History of songSilent Night Web: translations (193 versions in 130 languages), notation, and history.Joseph Mohr Memorial Organ, Wagrain, AustriaReferencesCategory:1810s songs Category:Christmas songs Category:Austrian songs Category:Christmas carols Category:Christian hymns Category:Burl Ives songsbg:Тиха нощ, свята нощ cs:Tichá noc cy:Tawel Nos da:Glade jul, dejlige jul de:Stille Nacht, heilige Nacht et:Püha öö es:Noche de paz eo:Stille Nacht fr:Douce nuit, sainte nuit ga:Oíche Chiúin gd:Oidhche Shàmhach (òran) ko:고요한 밤 거룩한 밤 haw:Pō La‘i Ē hr:Tiha noć id:Malam Kudus is:Heims um ból it:Astro del Ciel la:Alma nox hu:Csendes éj nl:Stille Nacht ja:きよしこの夜 no:Glade jul nn:Glade jul pl:Cicha noc pt:Noite Feliz ro:Noapte de vis ru:Тихая ночь sk:Tichá noc, svätá noc sl:Sveta noč fi:Jouluyö, juhlayö sv:Stilla natt, heliga natt vi:Đêm Thánh Vô Cùng tr:Sessiz Gece, Kutsal Gece uk:Тиха ніч zh:平安夜 (歌曲)