 Plebs were the general body of landowners; of Roman citizens in Ancient Rome. They were distinct from the privileged class of the patricians. A member of the plebs was known as a plebeian (Latin: plebeius). The term is used more commonly today to refer to one who is in the middle or lower class, or who appears to be; however, in Rome, plebeians could become quite wealthy and influential.The origin of the class separation is clear. However the populace of the city of Rome during the reigns of Romulus, Numa Pompilius, and Tullus Hostilius were all called patrician as they were likely the only inhabitants of Rome. It is during the reign of Ancus Marcius that the plebeians came to Rome from diplomatic alliances as secondary citizens. In any case, around the time of the foundation of the Roman Republic, the plebeians were excluded from religious colleges and magistracies, and the law of the Twelve Tables disallowed intermarriage (which was finally allowed by the Lex Canuleia). At the same time, plebeians were enrolled in the gentes and tribes, served in the army, and could become military tribunes.Even so, the "Conflict of the Orders" over the political status of the plebeians went on for the first two centuries of the Republic, ending with the formal equality of plebeians and patricians in 287&amp;nbsp;BC. The plebeians achieved this by developing their own organizations (the concilium plebis), leaders (the tribunes and plebeian aediles), and as the ultimate weapon used the secessio, by which the plebeians would literally leave Rome, effectively boycotting the city.Modern usageIn British, Irish, Australian and South African English pleb is a derogatory term for someone thought of as inferior, common or ignorant. In Dutch it is used literally; someone may be part of the Plebeians. See also: prole.Plebes, are freshmen at the U.S. Military Academy, U.S. Naval Academy, Valley Forge Military Academy, The Marine Military Academy and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy.See alsoPatricianRoman RepublicPlebeian CouncilExternal links[http://penelope.uchicago.edu/Thayer/E/Roman/Texts/secondary/SMIGRA*/Plebs.html Smith's Dictionary of Greek and Roman Antiquities, article Plebs]Livius.org: PlebsCategory:Ancient Rome Category:Social groups Category:Social classes in ancient Romeaz:Plebeylər bs:Plebejci bg:Плебеи ca:Plebs cs:Plebej da:Plebejer de:Plebejer el:Πληβείοι es:Plebe fr:Plèbe hr:Plebejac id:Pleb is:Plebeiar it:Plebei he:פלבאים ka:პლებეები ku:Plebs lt:Plebsas hu:Plebejus nl:Plebejer ja:プレブス no:Plebeier pl:Plebejusze pt:Plebe ro:Plebeu ru:Плебс sr:Плебејци sh:Plebejci fi:Plebeijit sv:Plebej tr:Plebler uk:Плебей