  Utica is an ancient city northwest of Carthage near the outflow of the Medjerda River into the Mediterranean Sea, traditionally considered to be the first colony founded by the Phoenicians in North Africa.Moscati, Sabatino. The World of the Phoenicians. New York: Frederick A. Praeger, Publishers, 1968. Today, Utica no longer exists, and its remains are located not on the coast where it once lay, but further inland because the Medjerda River caused the silting over of its original port. “Utica (Utique) Tunisia." The Princeton Encyclopedia of Classical Sites. Stillwell, Richard, Macdonald, William L. and McAllister, Marian Holland. Princeton, N.J: Princeton University Press, 1976. 5 May 2007. Utica's beginningsUtica was founded as a port located on the trade route leading to the Straits of Gibraltar and the Atlantic, thus facilitating Phoenician trade in the Mediterranean.Aubet, Maria Eugenia. The Phoenicians and the West, Politics, Colonies, and Trade. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2001. The actual founding date of Utica is controversial. Several classical authors date its foundation around 1100 BC. The archaeological evidence, however, suggests a foundation no earlier than the eighth century BC. Although Carthage was later founded about 40 km. from Utica, records suggest “that until 540 BC Utica was still maintaining political and economic autonomy in relation to its powerful Carthaginian neighbor”.Aubet, Maria Eugenia. The Phoenicians and the West, Politics, Colonies, and Trade. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2001. By the fourth century BC, Utica came under Punic control but continued to exist as a privileged ally of Carthage.Walbank, F.W., Astin, A.E., Frederiksen, M.W., Ogilvie R.M. and Drummond, A., eds. The Rise of Rome to 220 BC. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1989. Vol. VII of The Cambridge Ancient History.[[Mercenary War]]This relationship between Carthage and Utica began to disintegrate after the First Punic War, with the outbreak of rebellion among mercenaries who had not received compensation for their service to Carthage. Originally, Utica refused to participate in this rebellion, so that the Libyan forces led by Spendius and Matho laid siege to Utica and nearby Hippocritae. Polybius. “The Histories.” Book 1. Loeb Classical Library. Vol I. 2 May 2007. Polybius. “The Histories.” Book 1. Loeb Classical Library. Vol I. 2 May 2007. Walbank, F.W., Astin, A.E., Frederiksen, M.W., Ogilvie R.M. and Drummond, A., eds. The Rise of Rome to 220 BC. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1989. Vol. VII of The Cambridge Ancient History.[[Third Punic War]]Utica again defied Carthage in the Third Punic War, when it surrendered to Rome shortly before the breakout of war in 150 BC. After its victory, Rome rewarded Utica by granting it an expanse of territory stretching from Carthage to Hippo.Walbank, F.W., Astin, A.E., Frederiksen, M.W., and Ogilvie R.M., eds. Rome and the Mediterranean to 133 BC. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1989. Vol. VIII of The Cambridge Ancient History. As a result of the war, Roman created a new province of Africa, and Utica became its capital, which meant that the governor's residence was there along with a small garrison. Over the following decades Utica also attracted Roman citizens who settled there to do business. “Utica (Utique) Tunisia." The Princeton Encyclopedia of Classical Sites. Stillwell, Richard, Macdonald, William L. and McAllister, Marian Holland. Princeton, N.J: Princeton University Press, 1976. 5 May 2007. [[Caesar's civil war|Roman Civil War]]During the Roman Civil War between the supporters of Pompeius and Caesar, the remaining Pompeians, including Cato the Younger, fled to Utica after being defeated at the Battle of Thapsus in 46 BC. Caesar pursued them to Utica, meeting no resistance from the inhabitants. Cato, who was the leader of the Pompeians, ensured the escape of his fellow senators and anyone else who desired to leave, then committed suicide, unwilling to accept the clemency of Caesar.Walbank, F.W., Astin, A.E., Frederiksen, M.W., and Ogilvie R.M., eds. Rome and the Mediterranean to 133 BC. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1989. Vol. VIII of The Cambridge Ancient History. Displaying their fondness for Cato, “the people of Utica...called Cato their saviour and benefactor…And this they continued to do even when word was brought that Caesar was approaching. They decked his body in splendid fashion, gave it an illustrious escort, and buried it near the sea, where a statue of him now stands, sword in hand”. Plutarch. “The Parallel Lives.” Loeb Classical Library. Vol VIII. 2 May 2007. Cassius Dio. “Roman History.” Book 43. Loeb Classical Library. Vol IV 2 May 2007. "Utica (Utique) Tunisia." The Princeton Encyclopedia of Classical Sites. Stillwell, Richard, Macdonald, William L. and McAllister, Marian Holland. Princeton, N.J: Princeton University Press, 1976. 5 May 2007.  During the reign of Augustus, however, the seat of provincial government was moved by the Emperor Augustus to Carthage. "Although Utica did not lose its status as one of the foremost cities in the province. When Hadrian was emperor, Utica requested to become a full Roman colony, but this request was not granted until Septimius Severus, a native, took the throne."Bunson, Matthew. “Utica.” Encyclopedia of the Roman Empire. New York: Facts on File, Inc., 1994.The fall of UticaIn AD 439, the Vandals captured Utica, in AD 534 the Byzantines captured it once more, and the Arabs were responsible for its ultimate destruction around AD 700. "Excavations at the site have yielded two Punic cemeteries and Roman ruins, including baths and a villa with mosaics". "Utica, Ancient City, N Africa." Columbia Encyclopedia. Academic Search Premier. EBSCOhost. Northwestern University Library. 1 May 2007. FootnotesCategory:Archaeological sites in Tunisia Category:Carthage Category:Phoenician colonies Category:Roman sites in Tunisia Category:1st millennium BC establishmentsca:Útica da:Utica (Tunesien) de:Utica (Tunesien) es:Útica fr:Utique it:Utica he:אוטיקה nl:Utica (Tunesië) ja:ウティカ pl:Utyka ru:Утика sv:Utica (Tunisien)