  |birth_place =Maadi, Cairo, Kingdom of Egypt |placeofdeath = | death_date = | death_place = | occupation = Medical doctor, Islamic scholar, Militant leader ' Dr. Ayman Muhammad Rabaie al-Zawahiri' (, the last name also sometimes being transliterated al-Dhawahiri to reflect normative classical Arabic pronunciation beginning with , born June 19, 1951) is a prominent leader of al-Qaeda, and was the second and last "emir" of Egyptian Islamic Jihad, having succeeded 'Abbud al-Zummar in the latter role when Egyptian authorities sentenced al-Zummar to life imprisonment. Al-Zawahiri is a qualified surgeon, and is an author of works including numerous al-Qaeda statements. He speaks Arabic and English.http://www.memri.org/bin/latestnews.cgi?ID=SD202208&lt;/ref&gt;&lt;ref&gt;http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/pakistan/2540522/Al-Qaeda-chief-Ayman-Zawahiri-attacks-Pakistans-Pervez-Musharraf-in-video.html&lt;/ref&gt; Al-Zawahiri is under worldwide embargo by the UN 1267 Committee as a member or affiliate of al-Qaeda.UN list of affiliates of al-Qaeda and the TalibanIn 1998 al-Zawahiri formally merged Egyptian Islamic Jihad into al-Qaeda. According to reports by a former al-Qaeda member, he has worked in the al-Qaeda organization since its inception and was a senior member of the group's shura council. He is often described as a "lieutenant" to Osama bin Laden, though bin Laden's chosen biographer has referred to him as the "real brains" of al-Qaeda. As of July 2008, he is still at large. There were reports on August 1, 2008 that he may be dead or dying, but United States counterterrorism officials said there was no credible evidence to indicate al-Zawahiri had been hurt or killed. The Taliban have also denied these claims. In early September of 2008, Pakistan military claimed that they "almost" captured al-Zawahiri after getting information that he and his wife were in the Mohmand Agency, in northwest Pakistan. After raiding the area, officials didn't find him. &lt;/ref&gt;Alternate names and sobriquetsAyman al-Zawahiri is usually spelled Zawahiri (the pronunciation of his name in his native Egyptian Arabic), but is spelled "Dhawahiri" if transliterated directly from Modern Standard Arabic, aka Literary Arabic.Al-Zawahiri has also gone under the names of Abu Muhammad (Abu Mohammed), Abu Fatima, Muhammad Ibrahim, Abu Abdallah, Abu al-Mu'iz, The Doctor, The Teacher, Nur, Ustaz, Abu Mohammed Nur al-Deen, Abdel Muaz (Abdel Moez, Abdel Muez). Ayman Muhammad Rabaie al-Zawahiri is pronounced mʊˈħæmːæd ræˈbɪːʕ azˤːɑˈwæːhɪrɪː or aðˤːɑˈwæːhɪrɪː in Arabic.BiographyUpbringing and educationAyman al-Zawahiri was born to a prominent upper middle class family in Maadi, Egypt, a suburb of Cairo, and was reportedly a studious youth. His father, Mohammed Rabie al-Zawahiri, was a pharmacologist and a professor coming from a large family of doctors and scholars, while his mother, Umayma Azzam, came from a wealthy, politically active clan. He excelled in school, loved poetry, "hated violent sports" - which he thought were `inhumane` - and had a deep affection for his mother. &lt;/ref&gt;His family was "religious but not overly pious," Wright, The Looming Tower, p. 34.  but Zawahiri became both quite pious and political, under the influence of his uncle Mahfouz Azzam, who had been a student and then lifelong follower of radical Islamist thinker Sayyid Qutb.Qutb preached in his manifesto, Ma'alim fi al-Tariq (Milestones), that "the Muslim community has been extinct for a few centuries" having reverted to Jahiliyyah, "the state of ignorance of the guidance from God." Qutb, Milestones, pp. 11, 19.  To restore Islam and free Muslims, "jahili society, jahili concepts, jahili traditions and jahili leadership," had to be eliminated, Qutb, Milestones p. 21.  and to do this a vanguard of true Muslims modeling itself after the original Muslims, the "companions" of Muhammad had to be developed. Like the companions, this vanguard would cut themselves off from the Jahiliyyah -- i.e., ignore the learning and culture of non-Muslim groups (Greeks, Romans, Persians, Christians or Jews) -- and separate themselves from their old non-Muslim friends and family. It would look to the Qur'an for orders to obey, not "learning and information" or solutions to problems. Qutb, Milestones, pp. 16, 20 (pp. 17-18). The implication of this idea for many, was that Muslim government officials, particularly those of Egypt, had become so corrupted they were no longer true Muslims. As apostates, they could be killed under Islamic law. In 1965, Qutb was accused of plotting to overthrow the state, with much of the prosecutor's evidence being taken directly from Milestones and defended by Qutb. Qutb was tried, convicted and executed. Milestones became a best seller. Sivan, Emmanuel, Radical Islam: Medieval Theology and Modern Politics. Yale University Press (1985) p. 93.  Kepel, Gilles (1985). The Prophet and Pharaoh: Muslim Extremism in Egypt. Al Saqi. By 14, al-Zawahiri had joined the Muslim Brotherhood (al-Ikhwan al-Muslimin) Islamist group. The following year the Egyptian government executed Qutb for conspiracy, and al-Zawahiri, along with four other secondary school students, helped form an "underground cell devoted to overthrowing the government and establishing an Islamist state." It was at this early age that al-Zawahiri developed a mission in life, "to put Qutb's vision into action." Wright, p. 37.  His cell eventually merged with others to form al-Jihad or Egyptian Islamic Jihad.Wright, p. 42. At Cairo University, Al-Zawahiri studied behavior, psychology and pharmacology graduating in 1974 with gayyid giddan. Following that he served three years as a surgeon in the Egyptian Army after which he established a clinic near his parents. In 1978, he also earned a master's degree in surgery. &lt;/ref&gt;Marriage and familyIn 1978 he married Azza Nowari, the daughter of an old family friend. Azza had become very religious in college, wearing a niqab, a black hijab covering all but her eyes, and sometimes spending the whole night reading the Qur'an. Their wedding was very pious, with separate areas for men and women, and no music, photographs, or light hearted humour. Wright, pp. 43-44.  Many years later, when the United States attacked Afghanistan following the September 11, 2001 attacks, Azza denied ever knowing that Zawahiri had been a jihadi emir (commander) for the last decade, although at least one acquaintance is skeptical of her ignorance of this fact. Wright, p. 370. The couple had four daughters, Fatima (b. 1981), Umayma, Nabila (b. 1986) and Khadiga (b. 1987), and a son Mohammed, who was a "delicate, well-mannered boy" and "the pet of his older sisters," subject to teasing and bullying in a traditional all-male environment who preferred to "stay at home and help his mother." Wright, pp. 254-5.  Ten years after the birth of Mohammed, Azza gave birth to Aisha, who suffered from Down syndrome.Zaynab Khadr recalled celebrating the engagement of Umayma at the family's house for an all-day party, and al-Zawahiri knocking softly at Umayma's door asking the two girls to please keep their singing and partying quiet as it was nighttime.Wright, Lawrence, "The Looming Tower", 2006Azza and Aisha both died following 9/11. After American bombardment of a Taliban officials building at Gardez, Azza was pinned under debris of a guesthouse roof. Concerned for her modesty, she "refused to be excavated" because "men would see her face." Her four-year-old daughter Aisha had not been hurt by the bombing but died from exposure in the night cold while the rescuers tried to save Azza. Wright, p. 371. Attempted coupHe eventually became one of Islamic Jihad's leading organizers and recruiters. Zawahiri's hope was to recruit military officers and accumulate weapons, waiting for the right moment to launch "a complete overthrow of the existing order." Wright, p. 49.  Chief strategist of Al-Jihad was Aboud al-Zumar, a colonel in the military intelligence whose plan was to kill the main leaders of the country, capture the headquarters of the army and State Security, the telephone exchange building, and of course the radio and television building, where news of the Islamic revolution would then be broadcast, unleashing - he expected - a popular uprising against secular authority all over the country."The plan was derailed when authorities were alerted to Al-Jihad's plan by the arrest of an operative carrying crucial information, in February 1981. President Anwar Sadat ordered the roundup of more than 1500 people, including many Al-Jihad members, but missed a cell in the military led by Lieutenant Khalid Islambouli, who succeeded in assassinating Sadat during a military parade that October. Wright, p. 50. Imprisonment and tortureAl-Zawahiri was one of hundreds arrested following Sadat's assassination. Al-Zawahiri's lawyer, Montasser el-Zayat, contends that Zawahiri was tortured in prison."Dr Zawahiri had been imprisoned and, according to friends, beaten frequently after the assassination of President Anwar Sadat in 1981." In his book, Al-Zawahiri as I Knew Him, Al-Zayyat maintains that under torture of the Egyptian police, following his arrest in connection with the murder of Sadat in 1981, Al-Zawahiri revealed the hiding place of Essam al-Qamari, a key member of the Maadi cell of al-Jihad, which led to Al-Qamari's "arrest and eventual execution." Cited in  (Essam Al-Qamari was a decorated major in the Egyptian army who smuggled weapons and ammunition from army strongholds for al-Jihad.)Al-Zawahiri was convicted of dealing in weapons and received a three-year sentence, which he completed in 1984 shortly after his conviction.Wright, pp. 57-8. Leaving EgyptIn 1985, al-Zawahiri went to Saudi Arabia on Hajj and stayed to practice medicine in Jeddah for a year. Wright, p. 60. He then traveled to Peshawar, Pakistan where he worked in a Red Crescent hospital treating wounded refugees. There he became friends with the Canadian Ahmed Said Khadr, and the two shared a number of conversations about the need for Islamic government and the needs of the Afghan people.Michelle Shephard, "Guantanamo's Child", 2008. During this time, al-Zawahiri also began reconstituting the Egyptian Islamic Jihad (EIJ) along with other exiled militants.Lawrence Wright, The Looming Tower, 2006 ISBN 9-375-41486-X.  The group had "very loose ties to their nominal imprisoned leader, Abud al-Zumur."In Peshwar, al-Zawahiri is thought to have become radicalized by other Al-Jihad members, abandoning his old strategy of a swift coup d'etat to change society from above, and embracing the idea of takfir.Interview with Usama Rushdi. Wright, 2006, pp. 124-5.  In 1991, EIJ broke with al-Zumur, and al-Zawahiri grabbed "the reins of power" to become EIJ leader. Wright, p. 124.In Peshawar, he met Osama bin Laden, who was running a base for mujahideen called Maktab al-Khadamat (MAK); founded by the Palestinian Sheikh Abdullah Yusuf Azzam. The radical position of al-Zawahiri and the other militants of Al-Jihad put them at odds with Sheikh Azzam, with whom they competed for bin Laden's financial resources. Wright, p. 103.  Zawahiri carried two false passports, a Swiss one in the name of Amin Uthman and a Dutch one in the name of Mohmud Hifnawi.Canadian Security Intelligence Service, Summary of the Security Intelligence Report concerning Mahmoud Jaballah, February 22, 2008Egypt and SudanIn 1990, al-Zawahiri returned to Egypt, where he continued to influence Islamic Jihad in more radical directions.Al-Zawahiri and his group struggled financially. He is reported to have visited the United States at least once in the early 1990 in an attempt to raise money for EIJ. In 1993 he appeared on the speaker circuit in several California mosques posing as "Dr. Abdul Mu'iz," of the Kuwaiti Red Crescent, "raising money for Afghan children who had been injured by Soviet land mines from the time of jihad." The trip was a financial failure, raising "at most" $2000, and leading his organization closer to an eventual alliance with al-Qaeda. Wright, p. 179. Relation with Islamic Republic of IranZawahiri worked with the Islamic Republic of Iran on behalf of al-Qaeda. Lawrence Wright reports that EIJ operative Ali Mohammed "told the FBI that al-Jihad had planned a coup in Egypt in 1990." Zawahiri had studied the 1979 Islamist Islamic Revolution and "sought training from the Iranians" as to how to duplicate their feat against the Egyptian government.He offered Iran information about an Egyptian government plan to storm several islands in the Persian Gulf that both Iran and the United Arab Emirates lay claim to. According to Mohammed, in return for this information, the Iranian government paid Zawahiri $2 million and helped train members of al-Jihad in a coup attempt that never actually took place. Wright, p. 174. However, in public Zawahiri has harshly denounced the Iranian government. In December 2007 he said, "We discovered Iran collaborating with America in its invasions of Afghanistan and Iraq."Ayman al Zawahiri: Review of Events: As Sahab's Fourth Interview with Zawahiri In the same video messages, he moreover chides Iran for "repeating the ridiculous joke that says that al-Qaida and the Taliban are agents of America," before playing a video clip in which Ayatollah Rafsanjani says, "In Afghanistan, they were present in Afghanistan, because of Al-Qa'ida; and the Taliban, who created the Taliban? America is the one who created the Taliban, and America's friends in the region are the ones who financed and armed the Taliban."Zawahiri's criticism of Iran's government continues when he states,Despite Iran's repetition of the slogan 'Death to America, death to Israel,' we haven't heard even one Fatwa from one Shiite authority, whether in Iran or elsewhere, calling for Jihad against the Americans in Iraq and Afghanistan.Zawahiri has dismissed that there is any cooperation between Iran and Al Qaeda against their common enemy, to wit, the United States. He also said that "Iran Stabbed a Knife into the Back of the Islamic Nation."In April 2008, Zawahri blamed Iranian state media and Al-Manar for perpetuating the "lie" that "there are no heroes among the Sunnis who can hurt America as no-one else did in history" in order to discredit the Al Qaeda network. Zawahri was referring to some 9/11 conspiracy theories which posit that Al Qaeda itself wasn't responsible for the 9/11 attacks.On the 7th anniversary of the attacks of Setember 11th 2001, Zawahri released a 90-minute tapehttp://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/26611113/&lt;/ref&gt; in which he blasted "The guardian of Muslims in Tehran" for recognizing "the two hireling governments"http://www.iht.com/articles/ap/2008/09/08/africa/ME-Al-Qaida-Tape.php&lt;/ref&gt; in Iraq and Afghanistan.Attacks in EgyptOne result of Zawahiri and EIJ's connection with Iran may have been the use of suicide bombing in August 1993 in an attempt on the life of Egyptian Interior Minister Hasan al-Alfi, the man heading the effort to quash the campaign of Islamist killings in Egypt. It failed, as did an attempt to assassinate Egyptian prime minister Atef Sidqi three months later. The bombing of Sidqi's car did succeed in injuring 21 Egyptians and killing a young schoolgirl, Shayma Abdel-Halim. It also came following two years of killings by another Islamist group, al-Gama'a al-Islamiyya, that had killed over 200. Her funeral became a public spectacle, with her coffin carried through the streets of Cairo and crowds shouting, "Terrorism is the enemy of God!"Wright, p. 186. The police arrested 280 more of al-Jihad's members and executed six.Zawahiri later wrote of his anger with the public reaction. "This meant that they wanted my daughter, who was two at the time, and the daughters of other colleagues, to be orphans. Who cried or cared for our daughters?"The 1995 attack on the Egyptian embassy in Islamabad was the Egyptian Islamic Jihad's first success under Zawahiri's leadership, but Bin Laden had disapproved of the operation. The bombing alienated the host of the embassy, Pakistan, and Pakistan was "the best route into Afghanistan"Wright, Looming Towers, 2006, p.217Expulsion from Sudan and time spent in RussiaIn 1996, Zawahiri and his EIJ group were expelled from Sudan following a failed assassination attempt on Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak and their killing of two boys for betraying the EIJ. At this time he is said to have "become a phantom" Wright, p. 250. but is thought to have traveled widely to "Switzerland and Sarajevo. ... A fake passport he was using shows that he traveled to Malaysia, Taiwan, Singapore, and Hong Kong." In late 1996 he was detained in Russia for six months by the FSB after he was caught trying to cross the border into Chechnya without a visa, posing as a Sudanese merchant. According to FSB spokesman Sergei Ignatchenko, "He had four passports, in four different names and nationalities. We checked him out in every country, but they could not confirm him. We could not keep him forever, so we took him to the Azerbaijani border and let him go." He was apparently put on trial, but was acquitted and subsequently released. However, some have raised doubts as to the true nature of al-Zawahiri's encounter with the Russians: Jamestown Foundation scholar Evgenii Novikov has argued that it seems unlikely that the Russians would not have been able to determine who he was, given their well-trained Arabists and the obviously suspicious act of Muslims crossing illegally a border with multiple false identities and encrypted documents in Arabic. The trial of al-Zawahiri which led to his release from Russian custody was also highly unusual, in that criminal conviction rates in Russia are around 99%. Assassinated former FSB agent Alexander Litvinenko alleged, among other things, that during this time, al-Zawahiri was indeed being trained by the FSB, and that he was not the only link between al-Qaeda and the FSB. Former KGB officer and writer Konstantin Preobrazhenskiy supported Litvinenko's claim and said that Litvinenko "was responsible for securing the secrecy of Al-Zawahiri's arrival in Russia, who was trained by FSB instructors in Dagestan, Northern Caucasus, in 1996-1997." Russia and Islam are not Separate: Why Russia backs Al-Qaeda, by Konstantin Preobrazhensky.Zawahiri and other EIJ members found refuge in Jalalabad, Afghanistan, where Al-Qaeda families had settled. About 250 people were gathered there altogether.While there Zawahiri learned of a "Nonviolence Initiative" being organized in Egypt to end the terror campaign that had killed hundreds and resulting government crackdown that had imprisoned thousands. Zawahiri angrily opposed this "surrender" in letters to the London newspaper Al-Sharq al-Awsat. Wright, pp. 255-6.  Together with members of al-Gama'a al-Islamiyya, he helped organize a massive attack on tourists at the Temple of Hatshepsut to sabotage the initiative by provoking the government into repression. Wright, pp. 256-7.  The attack by six men dressed in police uniforms, succeeded in machine-gunning and hacking to death 58 foreign tourists and four Egyptians, including "a five-year-old British child and four Japanese couples on their honeymoons," and devastated the Egyptian tourist industry for a number of years. Nonetheless the Egyptian reaction was not what Zawahiri had hoped for. The attack so stunned and angered Egyptian society that Islamists denied responsibility. Zawahiri blamed the police for the killing, but also held the tourists responsible for their own deaths for coming to Egypt, The people of Egypt consider the presence of these foreign tourists to be aggression against Muslims and Egypt, ... The young men are saying that this is our country and not a place for frolicking and enjoyment, especially for you. Wright, pp. 257-8. The massacre was so unpopular that no terror attacks occurred in Egypt for several years thereafter. Zawahiri was sentenced to death in absentia in 1999 by an Egyptian military tribunal.Al Jazeera English - Archive - Profile: Ayman Al-Zawahiri&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Fatwa with Osama bin LadenOn February 23, 1998, he issued a joint fatwa with Osama bin Laden under the title "World Islamic Front Against Jews and Crusaders". Zawahiri, not bin Laden, is thought to have been the actual author of the fatwa. Wright, p. 259.  Similarly, bin Laden's preferred biographer Hamid Mir is reported to have said that he believed that Ayman al-Zawahiri was the operational head of al-Qaeda, and that "he is the person who can do the things that happened on Sept. 11."On October 10, 2001, al-Zawahiri appeared on the initial list of the FBI's top 22 Most Wanted Terrorists, which was released to the public by U.S. President George W. Bush.In December 2001, al-Zawahiri published the book Knights Under the Prophet's Banner outlining al-Qaeda's ideology. English translations of this book were published; excerpts are available online.Following the U.S. invasion of Afghanistan, al-Zawahiri's whereabouts are unknown, but he is generally thought to be in tribal Pakistan. Although he releases videos of himself frequently (see Messages of Ayman al-Zawahiri), al-Zawahiri has not appeared alongside bin Laden in any of them since 2002.On January 13, 2006, the Central Intelligence Agency launched an airstrike on Damadola, a Pakistani village near the Afghan border, where they believed al-Zawahiri was located. The airstrike was supposed to have killed al-Zawahiri and was thus reported in international news the following days. Many victims were buried without being identified. Anonymous U.S. government officials claimed that some terrorists were killed and the Bajaur tribal area government confirmed that at least four terrorists were among the dead. Anti-American protests broke out around the country and the Pakistani government condemned the U.S. attack and the loss of innocent life. On January 30, a new video was released showing al-Zawahiri unhurt. The video did discuss the airstrike, but did not reveal if al-Zawahiri was present in the village at that time.Al-Zawahiri supplied direction for the Lal Masjid siege in July 2007. Pakistani Army troops taking control of the Red Mosque in Islamabad found letters from al-Zawahiri directing Islamic militants Abdul Rashid Ghazi and Abdul Aziz Ghazi, who ran the mosque and adjacent madrasah. This conflict resulted in 100 deaths.Bin Laden’s deputy behind the Red Mosque bloodbath, Dean Nelson, Islamabad and Ghulam Hasnain, TIMESONLINE, 15 July 2007On August 1, 2008 CBS News reported that it had obtained a copy of an intercepted letter dated July 29, 2008 from unnamed sources in Pakistan, which urgently requested a doctor to treat al-Zawahiri. The letter indicated that al-Zawahiri was critically injured in a US missile strike at Azam Warsak village in South Waziristan on July 28 that also reportedly killed al Qaeda explosives expert Abu Khabab al-Masri. Taliban Mehsud spokesman Maulvi Umar told the Associated Press on August 2, 2008 that the report of al-Zawahiri's injury was false.Associated Press, "Missile Strike On Al-Zawahri Disputed", August 3, 2008.On 7th anniversary of the attacks of September 11, 2001, Zawahri released a 90-minute tapehttp://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/26611113/&lt;/ref&gt; in which he blasted "The guardian of Muslims in Tehran" for "the two hireling governments"http://www.iht.com/articles/ap/2008/09/08/africa/ME-Al-Qaida-Tape.php&lt;/ref&gt; in Iraq and Afghanistan.Views on female terroristsZawahri has said in an interview that the terrorist group does not have women terrorists and that a woman's role is limited to caring for the homes and children of al-Qaida fighters.Al-Qaida's Stance on Women Sparks Extremist Debate This resulted in a debate regarding the role of mujahid women like Sajida al-Rishawi.Video and audio messages May 2003 - Tape was broadcast by al-Jazeera and included the directives (interpreted) "Raze/Singe the floor out from under their feet... the political and corporate interests of the United States... and Norway." which caused a global lockdown and extensive confusion for the country of Norway. A short while later, the SS Norway, flagship of Norweigan Cruise Lines, experienced a freak "Boiler Explosion" while docking in the Port of Miami.Early September 2003 - A video showing al-Zawahiri and bin Laden walking together, as well as an audiotape, is released to the al-Jazeera network.September 9, 2004 - Another video is released announcing more assaults.August 4, 2005 - He issues a televised statement blaming Tony Blair and his government's foreign policy for the July 2005 London bombings.September 1, 2005 - al-Jazeera broadcasts a video message from Mohammed Sidique Khan, one of bombers of the London metro. His message is followed by another message from al-Zawahiri, blaming again Blair for the bombings.19 September 2005 - He claims responsibility for the London bombings.December 7, 2005 - The full 40 minute interview from September is posted on the Internet with previously unseen video footage. See below for links.3 April 2008 - He said Al Qaeda does not kill innocents and that its leader Osama bin Laden is healthy. The questions asked his views about Egypt and Iraq as well as Hamas, the militant Islamic group that seized control of Gaza 2007.Al Qaeda No. 2: We don't kill innocents22 April 2008 - An audio interview in which, among other subjects, Ayman al-Zawahiri attacks the Shiite Iran and Hezbollah for blaming the 9/11 attacks on Israel, and thus discrediting Al-Qaeda.9/11 theory propagated by Iran: Al-QaedaWanted in the USA and EgyptFor their leading role in anti-Egyptian Government attacks in the 1990s, Ayman al-Zawahiri and his brother Muhammad al-Zawahiri were sentenced to death in the 1999 Egyptian case of the Returnees from Albania.Ayman al-Zawahiri is under indictmentCopy of indictment USA v. Usama bin Laden et al., Center for Nonproliferation Studies, Monterey Institute of International Studies in the United States for this role in the 1998 U.S. embassy bombings in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, and Nairobi, Kenya. The Rewards for Justice Program of the U.S. Department of State is offering a reward of up to US$25 million for information about his location.Wanted poster for al-Zawahiri, Rewards for Justice Program, US Department of StateThe US intelligence community sometimes uses the alias "HVT-2", or High Value Target Two, to refer to Zawahiri.Bin Laden may have just escaped U.S. forces - Nightly News with Brian Williams - MSNBC.com&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Online Q&amp;A In mid-December 2007, Ayman al-Zawahiri's spokespeople announced plans for an "open interview" on a handful of Islamic Web sites. The administrators of four known jihadist web sites have been authorized to collect and forward questions, "unedited," they pledge, and "regardless of whether they are in support of or are against" al-Qaida, which would be forwarded to al-Zawahiri on 16 January.See alsoEgyptian Islamic JihadSheikh Omar Abdel-RahmanMessages of Ayman al-ZawahiriMessages of Osama bin LadenReferencesExternal linksNew Yorker story about al-Zawahiri, by Lawrence WrightFatwa from World Islamic Front for Jihad against Jews and Crusaders - Statement with bin Laden, 23 February 1998Nimrod Raphaeli's Biography of al-Zawahiri from Terrorism and Political Violence 14:4 (Winter 2002) 1-22.Al-Zawahiri: US faces Afghan, Iraq defeat (Aljazeera, 9 September 2004)Excerpts and video footage released [[December 1], 2005 from the September 2005 interview]CNN's report on the January 2006 al-Zarqawi video tapeLetter from al-Zawahiri to al-Zarqawi, copy at GlobalSecurity.org[http://www.findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m0PBZ/is_1_85/ai_n14695417 Extracts from Knights Under the Prophet's Banner]BlueNorway.Org concentrates on the Memorial Day 2003 SS Norway in Miami issue.VideoAl-Zawahiri Calls on Muslims to Give Aid to Earthquake Victims in Pakistan    Category:People from Cairo Category:Al-Qaeda Category:Al-Qaeda founders Category:Egyptian terrorists Category:Cairo University alumni Category:Disappeared people Category:Egyptian Muslims Category:Islamic scholars Category:Fugitives wanted by the United States Category:Fugitives wanted by Egypt Category:Fugitives wanted on terrorism charges Category:Parents of people with Down syndrome Category:FBI Most Wanted Terrorists ar:أيمن الظواهري cs:Ayman al-Zawahiri de:Aiman az-Zawahiri es:Aymán al-Zawahirí fa:ایمن الظواهری fr:Ayman al-Zawahiri it:Ayman al-Zawahiri ml:അയ്മന്‍ സവാഹിരി nl:Ayman al-Zawahiri ja:アイマン・ザワーヒリー no:Ayman al-Zawahiri pl:Ajman az-Zawahiri pt:Ayman al-Zawahiri ru:Завахири, Айман sr:Ајман ал-Завахри fi:Aiman al-Zawahri sv:Ayman al-Zawahiri vi:Ayman al-Zawahiri yi:איימאן על-זאוואהירי