 [[Dragan Popovski]]|
 manager  =  [[Boban Babunski]]|
 league   = [[Macedonian First League|Makedonska Prva Liga]] |
 season   = 2007-08 |
 position = 1st (champions) |
 pattern_la1=|pattern_b1=_redwhitestriped_sides|pattern_ra1=|
 leftarm1=FF0000|body1=FF0000|rightarm1=FF0000|shorts1=FFFFFF|socks1=FF0000|
 pattern_la2=|pattern_b2=_whitesleevelinesandsides|pattern_ra2=|
 leftarm2=1E90FF|body2=1E90FF|rightarm2=1E90FF|shorts2=1E90FF|socks2=FFFFFF|FK Rabotnički () is a Macedonian football club that plays at the Skopje City Stadium in Skopje, Republic of Macedonia. The team is the current champions of the Macedonian First League.HistoryFK Rabotnički has been regarded as a famous football club from Skopje, also known as ‘railway football club’, FK Rabotnički was formed in 1937. For long time, FC Rabotnički usually competed in the Second Federal League of the former Yugoslavia or the Republic League of the Socialist Republic of Macedonia. FC Rabotnički competed in the First Federal League of SFR Yugoslavia for two years. Since the Republic of Macedonia became an independent country, FC Rabotnički constantly competes in the Macedonian Premier League. In all these years since its establishing in 1937, FC Rabotnički has always been among the best clubs, and has always been decent representative of Macedonian football. The club's most successful years were those between 2001 and 2008 when the club has been acquired by the famous company Kometal. Since it has been acquired by Kometal (2001), FK Rabotnički shows constant progress: in 2002/03 FK Rabotnički finished second in the national league and competed in the UEFA Cup,(2004/05) has won the national championship and competed in the qualifications for the European Champions League and in (2005/06) became champion again. Kometal and Trifun Kostovski left Rabotnički and took over Vardar in 2008.== Veterans ==  qualifier against Hungary's Debreceni VSC, 2006]] Association of veterans of F.C. Rabotnički informally is functioning since the day of the forming of the club F.C Rabotnički itself, since 1937. Officially, the association of the veterans of Rabotnički is formally registered in front of the competent court of law with approval number 29/05 in 18.02.2005,and it is notified in the register of the associations of citizens an foundations under registration number 1928 by the name Rabotnički “Veterans”- Skopje with main office in Skopje, city park in large numbers. This, the association inherited the property of legal entity to 18.02.2005. Apart this property ,of independent legal entity,the association is functioning associated with F.C.Rabotnički-Skopje, generally comparing its policies, delegate its own members in the governing bodies of the club, gives its own opinions, suggestions, and proposals of a common interest, and all this with a purpose-achieving higher sport results and affirmation of the club in R.Macedonia and abroad . Basic sources of financing of the association are: enrolment fee sponsorship as well as good that are supplied by the club. Members of the association are: Active members who spent couple of years in the organs of the club as well as sportsmen who were many years active football players in the club, so as many citizens who showed interest for joining the association. According to this, the association has members from all branches of society life including:Lawyers,profesors, directors,of famous companies, ambassadors coaches, famous football players-representatives and many other famous persons from the sport and public life. President of the association from its own forming is the Lawyer Dragan Popovski, Secretary-General Gojko Stojanovski, selector Jastrat Janevski. It is from special interest to be mentioned that the association of veterans of F.C. Rabotnički is first of it’s kind in Republic of Macedonia .From the moment of working the association, it showed big activity for development of football,for creation and expending the friendly relationships with other football clubs in Macedonia and abroad. Those, the association has established friendly sport relation ships with teams from Bulgaria, Serbia, Montenegro, Turkey, Greece, Slovenia, Croatia and Sweden among others. The association Rabotnički Veterans is a regular participant in the traditional tournament in R. Bulgaria Varna as well as in cietain competition games with teams in Bulgaria it has played couple of games with team from Romania with team from Turkey with teams from Serbia Almost with every one above the association and showed excellent results and it had won sport cups and recognition. The successful activity of the association continues further more. As charged and responsible inheritors of the positive changes are Dokovski, Popovski, Lazarov, Milosevski, Zefic, M. Andreevski, G. Stojanovski, D. Stojanovski, Janevski, N.Bogoevski, S.Bogojevski, Dzipunov, Janev, Jovevski, Jugilizov, Bojcevski, Ilievski, Petkovski.Training campTraining Camp of FC Rabotnički is located in the city park (opposite the City Stadium, where Rabotnički is playing the official matches in the Championship of Macedonia and European competitions.In the moment there are three(3) completely renovated football fields ( two with flood lighting).Till the end of 2007 new facilities as a back - up for the football fields will be prepared:dressing rooms, rooms for rest, restaurant, gym and fitness, medical room and all sport and medical care infrastructures that will be at the service of our players and will support better conditions for work and better performance for our team.Pioneer teamThe Pioneer Youngest School of football of F C Rabotnički-Skopje includes practically attractive and fully formed offer of games and exercises for all adult and young categories of candidates, from the youngest to older. The pioneer Yongers School of the football Club Rabotnički is one of the most well organized schools in our conditions in R. Macedonia. For the moment it numbers 200 children, who are educated in groups on the following way, starting with the youngest moving to more older categories of football players. Generation of football players born 1998-97 coach Dragi Stojanovski, generation of football players born 1996-95 coach Sašo Janev, generation of football plyers born 1994-1993 coach Goce Petrevski, generation of football players born 1992 coach Goran Bojcevski, generation of football plyers born 1991 coach Baze Lazarevski, generation of football players born 1990-1989 coach Zoran Srbinovski. During the winter when outside conditions are bad, The school for children provides halls with climatised temperature and perfect conditions for work. In the coming days there is a plan for building their own covered filed with artificial grass, that is going to be available for the school during the year. Coach of the goal keepers of all generations is Zoran Micevski. Infrastructure on disposal for the youth sector. The training activities in the football school are held on three foot ball play grounds: Generation of football players born 1998-97 practice on the filed of f.c.Alumina,In karpos settlement.Generation of football players born 1996-95 practice on the filed of f.c.Alumina,In karpos settlement. Generation of football players born 1994-93 practice on the filed of f.c.Slavia,In przino settlement. Generation of football players born 1998-97 practice on the filed of f.c.Alumina,In karpos settlement. Generation of football players born 1990-89 practice on the filed of f.c.Alumina,In karpos settlementFansThe group of fans Romanticari has been formed in 2001. They follow the club everywhere and support the players on every game.AchievementsMacedonian Champions: 3200520062008Macedonian Cup Winners: 12008== Current squad ==                                     External linksOfficial Website  Supporters Website Macedonian Football Football Federation of Macedonia Official Site  Makedonski Sport (Macedonian Sport) daily sport newspaper   Rabotnički Category:FK Rabotnički Rbs:FK Rabotnički bg:ФК Работнички de:Rabotnički Skopje el:Ραμποτνίσκι Σκοπίων es:FK Rabotnički fr:Rabotnički Kometal Skopje ko:FK 라보트니츠키 it:FK Rabotnički he:רבוטינצ'קי קומטל סקופיה lt:FK Rabotnički Kometal Skopje mk:ФК Работнички Кометал nl:FK Rabotnički Kometal Skopje ja:FKラボトニツキ no:FK Rabotnički pl:FK Rabotnički Skopje ru:Работнички sr:ФК Работнички tr:FK Rabotnicki