right|200px|thumb|Front of Santa EulaliaThe Cathedral of Santa Eulalia (also called La Seu) is the Gothic cathedral seat of the Archbishop of Barcelona, Spain. (Though sometimes inaccurately so called, the famous Sagrada Família is not a cathedral). The cathedral was constructed throughout the 13th to 15th centuries on top of a former Visigothic church. The neo-Gothic façade is from the 19th century.The cathedral is dedicated to Eulalia of Barcelona, co-patron saint of Barcelona, a young virgin who, according to Catholic tradition, suffered martyrdom during Roman times in Barcelona. One story is that she was exposed naked in the public square and a miraculous snow fall in mid spring covered her nudity. The enraged Romans put her into a barrel with knives stuck into it and rolled it down a street (according to tradition, the one now called 'Baixada de Santa Eulalia'). The body of Saint Eulalia is entombed in the cathedral's crypt.One side chapel is dedicated to "Christ of Lepanto", and contains a cross from a ship that fought at the Battle of Lepanto (1571). The body of the cross is shifted to the right. Catalan legend says that the body swerved to avoid getting hit by a cannonball. This is believed to have been a sign from God that the Ottomans would be defeated.The cathedral has a secluded Gothic cloister where thirteen white geese are kept (it is said that Eulalia was 13 when she was murdered).Images image:Santaeulaliabarcelona224.jpg|Cathedral plan image:Porta claustre catedral de Barcelona.jpg|Cloisters door image:Capelles Bernardí i Roser catedral Barcelona.jpg|Chapels image:Cripta Catedral Barcelona.jpg|Santa Eulàlia's Crypt image:Barcelona catedral cloister.jpg|Cloister image:cathedralgeesebarcelona.JPG|Geese in the Cathedral of Santa Eulàlia image:Choirseets06390013.JPG|Choir seats at the Cathedral image:Garden06390019.JPG|The Cathedral Garden ReferencesExternal linksOfficial site Overview, with plan    Category:Cathedrals in Spain Category:Cathedrals in Catalonia Category:Churches in Barcelona Category:Visitor attractions in Barcelona Category:Ciutat Vella (district of Barcelona)ca:Catedral de Barcelona de:La Catedral (Barcelona) es:Catedral de Santa Eulalia de Barcelona fr:Cathédrale Sainte-Eulalie de Barcelone it:Cattedrale di Santa Eulalia he:קתדרלת אולליה הקדושה nl:Kathedraal van Barcelona no:Katedralen i Barcelona pl:Katedra św. Eulalii w Barcelonie pt:Catedral de Barcelona simple:Barcelona Cathedral sv:Katedralen i Barcelona