    Phuket (, ; formerly known as Tha-Laang or Talang, or Junk Ceylon in Western sources, a distortion of the Malay Tanjung Salang, i.e. "Cape Salang")Smithies, Michael (2002), Three military accounts of the 1688 "Revolution" in Siam, Itineria Asiatica, Orchid Press, Bangkok, ISBN 9745240052 , p.179 is one of the southern provinces (changwat) of Thailand. Neighbouring provinces are (from north clockwise) Phang Nga and Krabi, but as Phuket is an island there are no land boundaries. The island is served by Phuket International Airport, located in the north of the island. Phuket is Thailand’s largest island, approximately the size of Singapore. It is situated off the west coast of Thailand in the Andaman Sea. It has an area of approximately 570sqm and it’s made up of 1 large and 39 small islands. The north of Phuket borders with Phang-nga province. Despite being referred to as an island, it is connected to the mainland by bridge. Phuket formerly derived its wealth from tin and rubber, and enjoyed a rich and colourful history. The island was on one of the major trading routes between India and China, and was frequently mentioned in foreign trader’s ship logs. The region now derives much of its income from tourism.The name Phuket (of which the ph sound is an aspirated p) is apparently derived from the word bukit (Jawi: بوكيت) in Malay which means mountain or hill, as this is what the island appears like from a distance. The region was formerly referred to as "Thalang," derived from the old Malay "Telong" (Jawi: تلوڠ) which means "Cape". The northern district of the province, which was the location of the old capital, still uses this name.Historywith king Narai.]] In the 17th century, the Dutch, the English, and from the 1680s the French, competed with each other for trade with the island of Phuket (the island was named Junk Ceylon at that time), which was valued as a very rich source of tin. In September 1680, a ship from the French East India Company visited Phuket and left with a full cargo of tin. In 1681 or 1682, the Siamese king Narai, who was seeking to reduce Dutch and English influence, named Governor of Phuket the French medical missionary Brother René Charbonneau, a member of the Siam mission of the Société des Missions Etrangères. Charbonneau held the position of Governor until 1685.New Terrains in Southeast Asian History, p.294, Abu Talib http://books.google.com/books?id=MznDrpiYBcwC&amp;pg=PA294&amp;dq=Rene+Charbonneau+Phuket&amp;sig=Kjm0FYM2abQKQiWWU8S_hz02LwQ#PPA294,M1In 1685, king Narai confirmed the French tin monopoly in Phuket to a French ambassador, the Chevalier de Chaumont.Smithies 2002, p.179 Chaumont's former maître d'hôtel Sieur de Billy was named governor of the island.Smithies 2002, p.50 The French were expelled from Siam in 1688 however, following the 1688 Siamese revolution. On April 10, 1689, the French general Desfarges led an expedition to re-capture the island of Phuket in an attempt to restore some sort of French control in Siam.A History of South-east Asia p. 350, by Daniel George Edward Hall (1964) St. Martin's Press The occupation of the island led nowhere, and Desfarges returned to Pondicherry in January 1690.Smithies 2002, p.185The Burmese attacked Phuket in 1785. Captain Francis Light, a British East India Company captain passing by the island, sent word to the local administration that he had observed Burmese forces preparing to attack. Than Phu Ying Chan, the wife of the recently deceased governor, and her sister Mook(คุณมุก) then assembled what forces they could. After a month-long siege, the Burmese were forced to retreat March 13, 1785. The two women became local heroines, receiving the honorary titles Thao Thep Krasatri and Thao Si Sunthon from King Rama I. During the reign of King Chulalongkorn (Rama V), Phuket became the administrative center of the tin-producing southern provinces. In 1933 Monthon Phuket (มณฑลภูเก็จ)was dissolved and Phuket became a province by itself. Old names of the island include Ko Thalang.2004 Tsunamibeach.]]  On December 26, 2004, Phuket and other nearby areas on Thailand's western coast suffered extensive damage when they were struck by the Boxing Day tsunami caused by the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake. The waves destroyed several highly populated areas in the region, killing as many as 5,300 people nationwide, and tens of thousands more throughout the wider Asian region. As many as 250 people were reported dead in Phuket, including foreign tourists. Almost all the major beaches on the west coast, especially Kamala, Patong, Karon and Kata, sustained major damage, with some damage also being caused to resorts and villages on the island's southern beaches.By February 2005 many damaged and most undamaged resorts were back in business, and throughout 2005 life slowly returned to normal for the people of Phuket. As of November 2005, following strenuous recovery programs, there is little obvious remaining tsunami damage other than at the most remote beaches, and the tourist industry, which drives the Phuket economy, has now almost fully recovered. In the beginning of December 2006, Thailand launched the first of 22 U.S.-made tsunami-detection buoys to be positioned around the Indian Ocean as part of a regional warning system against giant waves caused by earthquakes under the sea. The satellite-linked deep-sea buoy will float 1,000 km (620 miles) offshore, roughly midway between Thailand and Sri Lanka.Geography  | archipelago = | total islands = | major islands = | area =  | length =  | width =  | highest mount = Mai Thao Sip Song | elevation =  | country = Thailand | country admin divisions title = | country admin divisions = | country admin divisions title 1 = | country admin divisions 1 = | country admin divisions title 2 = | country admin divisions 2 = | country largest city = | country largest city population = | population = | population as of = | density = | ethnic groups = Thai people | additional info =  , Kata Beach and Karon Beach]] Phuket is the biggest island in Thailand, located in the Andaman Sea off southern Thailand. The island is mostly mountainous with a mountain range in the west of the island from the north to the south. The mountains of Phuket form the southern end of the Phuket mountain range, which ranges for 440&nbsp;km from the Kra Isthmus. The highest elevation of the island is Mai Thao Sip Song (Twelve Canes), at 529&nbsp;m above sea level. It is estimated that Phuket has a total area of approximately 570 square kilometers (including the provinces other islands). The main island’s total length, from north to south, is about at 50 kilometers and approximately 20 kilometers wide.Forest, rubber and palm oil plantations cover 60% of the island. The western coast has several sandy beaches, while on the east coast beaches are more often muddy. Near the southernmost point is Laem Promthep (Brahma's Cape), which is a popular sunset viewing point. In the mountainous north of the island is the Khao Phra Thaeo Non-hunting Area, protecting more than 20&nbsp;km² of rainforest. The three highest peaks of this reserve are the Khao Prathiu (384&nbsp;m), Khao Bang Pae (388&nbsp;m) and Khao Phara (422&nbsp;m). The Sirinat National Park on the northwestern coast was established in 1981 and protects an area of 90&nbsp;km² (68&nbsp;km² marine area), including the Nai Yang beach where sea turtles lay their eggs.One of the most popular tourist areas on Phuket is Patong Beach on the central western coast, perhaps owing to the easy access to its wide and long beach. Most of Phuket's nightlife and its cheap shopping is located in Patong, and the area has become increasingly developed. Patong means "the forest filled with banana leaves" in Thai. Other popular beaches are located south of Patong. In a counterclockwise direction these include Karon Beach, Kata Beach, Kata Noi Beach, and around the southern tip of the island, Nai Harn Beach and Rawai. To the north of Patong are Kamala Beach, Surin Beach and Bang Tao Beach. These areas are generally much less developed than Patong, and sought out by individuals, families and other groups with a preference for more relaxed and less crowded environs than Patong. There are many islands to the southeast, including Bon Island, just a short boat trip away. There are several coral islands to the south of Phuket, the Similan Islands lie to the north west, and Phi Phi Islands to the south east. Islanders engage in a lively tourist trade, catering to snorkellers and scuba divers.Administrative divisions, or the three districts of Phuket]]  Phuket is divided into 3 districts (Amphoe), which are further subdivided into 17 subdistricts (tambon) and 103 villages (muban).Mueang PhuketKathuThalangThere are 9 municipal (thesaban) areas within the province. The capital Phuket has city (thesaban nakhon) status, and the main touristical town Patong as well as Kathu has town (thesaban mueang) status. There are further 6 subdistrict municipalities (thesaban tambon) - Karon, Thep Krasattri, Choeng Thale, Ratsada, Rawai and Wichit. The non-municipal areas are administrated by 9 tambon administrative organizations (TAO).EconomyTin mining has been a major source of income for the island since the 16th century. Chinese businessmen and Chinese workers were employed in the mines. Most were Hakka Chinese, and their influence on Phuket culture and cuisine can still be felt today. With falling tin prices, the mining has now all but ceased. In modern times, Phuket's economy rests on two pillars: rubber tree plantations (making Thailand the biggest producer of rubber in the world) and tourism, with a thriving diving industry attracting thousands of divers each year. Sex tourism and prostitution, though illegal, take place in Phuket. Bribery and corrupt officials prevent it from being shut down.Since the 1980s the sandy beaches on the western coast of the island have been heavily developed into tourist centers, with Patong, Karon and Kata being the most popular ones. Since the 2004 Tsunami, all damaged buildings and attractions have been restored. Phuket is currently going through an intensive period of leisure urbanization with many new hotels, apartments and houses under construction. In July 2005, Phuket was voted one of the World’s Top 5 retirement destinations by the acclaimed Fortune Magazine.http://www.phuket-retirement.com/retirement.html&lt;/ref&gt; There are thousands of expatriates living in Phuket, many of them retirees. A favourite spot for them is Phuket Beach, as it is very convenient. Costs in Phuket have shot up over the past decade, making it one of Thaliand's more expensive retirement destinations. Media reports indicate that the relative cost of living in Phuket is now higher than Bangkok. Still however, in comparison to the West, Phuket is fairly inexpensive.DemographicsAs with most of Thailand, the majority of the population is Buddhist, but there is a significant number of Muslims (30%) in Phuket, mainly descendants of the island's original sea-dwelling people. Among the Muslims, many are of Malay descent. People of Chinese ancestry make up an even larger populace, many of whom having descended from tin miners who migrated to Phuket during the 19th century.TransportationPhuket has an international airport located in the north of the island. There are many scheduled flights and chartered flights from domestics and other countries in Asia, Australia, Europe and North America landing in Phuket. Ferry services service neighboring island areas such as Koh Phi Phi and Koh Lanta.There is no rail-line to Phuket, but the trains do run to nearby Surat Thani. Songthaews (passenger pick-up vehicles) are a common mode of transport on Phuket. Phuket’s songthaews are larger than those found in other areas of Thailand. They travel between the town and beaches. There are also conventional bus services and motorbike taxis. The latter are found in large numbers in the main town and at Patong Beach. The traditional Tuk-tuks have been replaced by small vans, mostly red or some are yellow.Attractions Hat Patong (หาดป่าตอง) 15 kilometres from town, Patong is Phuket's most developed beach which offers numerous leisure, sporting, shopping and recreational options along its 3-kilometre long crescent bay. Windsurfing, snorkelling, sailing, swimming and sunbathing number among the many popular daytime activities. Patong is equally well known for its vibrant nightlife, among which seafood restaurants feature prominently.Laem Phromthep (แหลมพรหมเทพ) Phromthep Cape is a headland forming the extreme south end of Phuket. "Phrom" is Thai for the Hindu term, "Brahma," signifying purity, and "Thep" means 'God.' Local villagers used to refer to the cape as "Laem Chao", or the God's Cape, and it was an easily recognizable landmark for the early seafarers traveling up the Malay Peninsula from the sub-continent.Hat Kata (หาดกะตะ) Situated 20 kilometres from town, Kata has clear water flanked by hills, and picturesque Bu Island sits offshore. Kata retains a village feel at its northern and southern ends and is perhaps more family-oriented, its beach is much quieter than Patong. There is also its sister beach Kata Noi.Hat Karon (หาดกะรน) The second largest of Phuket's tourist beaches, some 20 kilometres from town. Large resort complexes line the road behind of the shoreline, but the long, broad beach itself has no development. The sand is very white, and squeaks audibly when walked upon. The southern point has a fine coral reef stretching toward Kata and Bu Island. There is also its sister beach Karon Noi.View Point (จุดชมวิว) This is located mid-point between Nai Han and Kata beaches. The scenic Kata Noi, Kata and Karon beaches, and Ko Pu Island can be viewed from this point. This is popular known as the most beautiful of all Phuket’s views if not the best in Thailand.Wat Chalong (วัดฉลองหรือวัดไชยธาราราม) This is where stands the cast statue of Luang Pho Cham, who helped the people of Phuket put down the Angyee, or Chinese Coolie Rebellion, in 1876 during the reign of Rama V. There are also statues of Luang Pho Chuang, and Luang Pho Cham, abbots of the temple during later times.Khao Phra Thaeo Wildlife Conservation Development and Extension Centre (สถานีพัฒนาและส่งเสริมการอนุรักษ์สัตว์ป่าเขาพระแทว) Its duty is to promote, distribute and wildlife within Khao Phra Thaeo wildlife park. The park is full of virgin forest and also actively conserves a number of wild animals; they would otherwise be extinct in fast-growing Phuket. It is a center for study of the environment and the forest vegetation is spectacular. Giant trees supported by huge buttresses are thick with creepers and climbers of every description.Ko Racha Yai or Raya Yai (เกาะราชาใหญ่) This is a small quite island which doesn’t get too many tourists. It has a small bay on the west is a boat anchorage. The waters at Raya Noi are green, and the fishing there is popular; visitors however, are not recommended to go swimming.Phuket Fantasea The very biggest of all Phuket's extravaganzas, Fantasea brings Hollywood-sized, Las Vegas-style entertainment to the island. Remarkable acrobatics, dazzling light work, stunning set design and a host of animal action combine in a song and dance spectacular that brings to life tales of history and mythology that leave visitors in no doubt that Phuket was at least as, if not more, exciting way back then.NightlifeNot only do most of the major hotels and resorts offer a wide selection of quality international restaurants and bars, featuring cabaret shows and live music, but every tourist centre has numerous other entertainment venues. Patong is undoubtedly the epi-centre of the island's entertainment scene with a wealth of bars, clubs, live music, and cabaret shows, yet there is still plenty to discover around the island, with Kata/Karon and Phuket town offering such a diverse range of clubs and nightspots.Local CulturePhuket is a melting pot of Buddhists, Thai-Chinese, Muslims and even sea gypsies. The majority of the population in the rural areas is Muslim. Phang-nga however, does not suffer from any religious tension and the folk live in peace and harmony. Outside of the provincial town, the rural folk speak with a thick Southern dialect which is difficult for even other Thais to understand. The provincial town’s economy having boomed over the past decade has lead to a lot of the youngsters leading similar lives to those in Bangkok. Altogether, the lifestyle of the urban Thai-Chinese resembles that of Bankokians. With this kind of mixture, Phang-nga is always celebrating something be it part of Thai Buddhist, Thai-Chinese or Thai-Islamic tradition.Events and FestivalsThao Thep Krasattri and Thao Si Sunthon Fair (งานท้าวเทพกระษัตรี - ท้าวศรีสุนทร) is held on March 13 every year to commemorate the two great heroines who rallied the Thalang people to repel Burmese invaders.Seafood Festival (เทศกาลอาหารทะเล), held around May yearly, is designed to publicise the delicious seafood of Phuket and attract visitors during the rainy season.Vegetarian Festival (เทศกาลกินเจ(กินผัก-เจี๊ยะฉ่าย)) is held on the first day of the 9th lunar month (end Sept or early October). Phuket islanders of Chinese ancestry commit themselves to a 9-day vegetarian diet, a form of purification believed to help make the forthcoming year “trouble-free”. The festival is marked by several ascetic displays, including fire-walking and ascending sharp-bladed ladders.Phuket King’s Cup Regatta (งานแข่งเรือใบชิงถ้วยพระราชทาน) is held in December. The Kata Beach Resort hosts international yachtsmen, largely from neighbouring countries who compete in the Kata Beach area for royal trophies.Laguna Phuket Triathlon (ลากูน่าภูเก็ตไตรกีฬา) is held in each December. The triathlon (a 1,800 - metre swim, a 5.5 -kilometre bike race and a 12-kilometre run and a 6 –kilometre fun run) attracts many athletes from all over the world.Phuket Travel Fair (เทศกาลเปิดฤดูการท่องเที่ยวจังหวัดภูเก็ต), starting from November 1, is usually called the Patong Carnival, from the place where celebrations occur. Colourful parades, sports events, and a beauty competition for foreign tourists are major activities.Chao Le (Sea Gypsy) Boat Floating Festival (งานประเพณีลอยเรือชาวเล) falls during the middle of the sixth and eleventh lunar months yearly. The sea gypsy villages at Rawai and Sapam hold their ceremonies on the 13th; Ko Si-re celebrates on the 14th; and Laem La (east of the bridge on Phuket’s northern tip) on the 15th. Ceremonies, which centre around the setting adrift of small boats similar to the Thai festival of Loi Krathong, are held at night and their purpose is to drive away evil and bring good luck.CuisineLocal dishes include:Fried or Boiled Noodle Dishes (หมี่ผัดหรือหมี่น้ำแบบต่าง ๆ), usually with pork or chicken, are available at many noodle shops in the town such as Mi Ton Pho, Mi Sapam, Mi Ao Ke, Mi Hun Pa Chang, and etc.Khanom Chin (ขนมจีน), a version of noodles taken at breakfast, usually served with a spicy curry sauce and fresh vegetables.Nam Phrik Kung Siap (น้ำพริกกุ้งเสียบ) is a mixture of dried chilli and smoked shrimps taken with various fresh vegetables.Cashew nuts and pineapples are rarely grown in Phuket but are available all year round. The nuts are available dried, fried or coated. Phuket pineapples are some of the most delectable, sweet and firm.NotesExternal links Province page from the Tourist Authority of Thailand Category:Islands of Thailand Category:Star Wars filming locationsar:فوكيت cs:Phuket da:Phuket de:Phuket (Provinz) es:Provincia de Phuket eu:Phuket fr:Province de Phuket ko:푸껫 주 id:Phuket it:Phuket he:פוקט ms:Phuket nl:Changwat Phuket ja:プーケット県 no:Phuket (provins) pl:Phuket (wyspa) pt:Ilhas Phuket ru:Пхукет fi:Phuket sv:Phuket th:จังหวัดภูเก็ต zh:普吉府