Djedkare Isesi in Greek known as TancheresMiroslav Verner, Archaeological Remarks on the 4th and 5th Dynasty Chronology, Archiv Orientální, Volume 69: 2001, pp.405 from Manetho's Aegyptiaca, was a Pharaoh of Egypt during the Fifth dynasty. He is assigned a reign of twenty-eight years by the Turin Canon although some Egyptologists believe this is an error for thirty-eight years. Manetho ascribes him a reign of forty-four years while the archaeological evidence suggests that his reign actually exceeded thirty-two years. His prenomen or royal name--Djedkare--means "The Soul of Re Endureth."Peter Clayton, Chronicle of the Pharaohs, Thames and Hudson, 1994. p.61He did not, as was customary for his dynasty, build his own sun temple, but did build his pyramid at Saqqara instead of Abusir. This is believed to be a sign that Osiris had now replaced the sun-god Ra as the most popular god. Titles were now thought to hold magical power; their inflation believed to be a sign of a gradual decentralization of power. An entire series of dated administrative papyri from Djedkare's reign, (the Prisse Papyrus at the Louvre, authored by Ptah-hotep), was discovered in Neferirkare's mortuary temple. According to Miroslav Verner, Djedkare's highest Year known date is a Year 22 IV Akhet day 12 papyrus,Verner, op. cit., p.406 which would belong anywhere from Year 32 to Year 44 of his reign depending on whether the Cattle Count was Biannual (2 times) or Semi-Biannual (1.5 times). He is extremely well documented both by the aforementioned Abusir papyri as well as numerous royal seals and contemporary inscriptions; taken together, they indicate a fairly long reign for this king.Verner, op. cit., p.410His almost complete mummy, along with a badly broken basalt sarcophagus and a niche for the canopic chest, was discovered in his damaged pyramid tomb at Saqqara.ReferencesMiroslav Verner, Archaeological Remarks on the 4th and 5th Dynasty Chronology, Archiv Orientální, Volume 69: 2001, pp.405-410 (coverage of Djedkare Isesi's reign)==External links==Egyptian KingsThe Instruction of Ptahhotep Index Page (Prisse Papyrus)The Mastaba of Ptahhotep reliefs from his tomb (Prisse Papyrus)Category:Pharaohs of the Fifth dynasty of Egypt Category:Fifth dynasty of Egyptca:Djedkare cs:Džedkare de:Djedkare es:Dyedkara-Isesi fr:Djedkarê Isési ko:제드카레 it:Djedkhau lt:Džetkarė nl:Djedkare pl:Dżedkare pt:Djedkaré Isesi ro:Djedkare Isesi ru:Джедкара Исеси sh:Djedkare Isesi sv:Djedkara zh:杰德卡拉