  Lemon balm (Melissa officinalis), not to be confused with bee balm, Monarda species, is a perennial herb in the mint family Lamiaceae, native to southern Europe and the Mediterranean region.It grows to 70-150 cm tall. The leaves have a gentle lemon scent, related to mint. At the end of the summer, little white flowers full of nectar appear. These attract bees, hence the genus name Melissa (Greek for 'honey bee'). Its flavour comes from the terpenes citronellal, citronellol, citral, and geraniol.CultivationThis herb can be easy to cultivate in United States Department of Agriculture Plant Hardiness Zones 4 to 9. In zone 4, it needs winter mulch and a well-drained sandy soil to survive. In zone 7, it can be harvested at least until the end of November. While it prefers full sun (as described on most plant tags), it is moderately shade-tolerant, much more so than most herbs. In dry climates, it grows best in partial shade. It can also be easily grown as an indoor potted herb.Lemon Balm grows in clumps and spreads vegetatively as well as by seed. In mild temperate zones, the stems of the plant die off at the start of the winter, but shoot up again in spring. It can be easily grown from stem cuttings rooted in water, or from seeds. Under ideal conditions, it will seed itself prolifically and can become a nuisance in gardens.UsageCulinary useLemon balm is often used as a flavouring in ice cream and herbal teas, both hot and iced, often in combination with other herbs such as spearmint. It is also frequently paired with fruit dishes or candies.Medicinal usesThe crushed leaves, when rubbed on the skin, are used as a repellant for mosquitos.Lemon Balm is also used medicinally as a herbal tea, or in extract form. It is claimed to have antibacterial, antiviral properties (it is effective against herpes simplex), and it is also used as a mild sedative or calming agent. At least one study has found it to be effective at reducing stress, although the study's authors call for further research. Its antibacterial properties have also been demonstrated scientifically, although they are markedly weaker than those from a number of other plants studied .Lemon balm essential oil is very popular in aromatherapy. The essential oil is commonly co-distilled with lemon oil, citronella oil, or other oils.Lemon balm should be avoided by those on thyroid medication (such as thyroxine) as it is believed that the herb inhibits the absorption of this medicine.Despite extensive traditional medicinal use, melissa oil has been prohibited by the International Fragrance Association (IFRA)'s 42nd amendment.ChemistryLemon Balm contains eugenol which kills bacteria and has been shown to calm muscles and numb tissues. It also contains tannins that contribute to its anti-viral effects, as well as terpenes that add to its soothing effects.Gallery Image:Melissa1.jpg Image:Melissa officinalis01.jpg|Leaves Image:Melissa officinalis1.jpg|Leaves Image:Melissa officinalis2.JPG|Leaves Image:Melissa officinalis3.JPG|Plant References  External links[http://botanical.com/botanical/mgmh/b/balm--02.html Mrs M. Grieve, A Modern Herbal:] Lemon BalmLemon Balm List of Chemicals (Dr. Duke's)Lemon Balm Medical ReferenceCategory:Lamiaceae Category:Herbs Category:Medicinal plantsbg:Маточина ca:Melissa cs:Meduňka lékařská da:Citronmelisse de:Zitronenmelisse et:Sidrunmeliss es:Melissa officinalis eo:Citronmeliso fa:بادرنجبویه fr:Mélisse officinale gl:Melisa hsb:Citronowa mjedowka it:Melissa officinalis ka:ბარამბო lt:Vaistinė melisa hu:Citromfű nl:Citroenmelisse ja:レモンバーム no:Sitronmelisse nn:Sitronmelisse nrm:Melissa officinalis pl:Melisa lekarska pt:Erva-cidreira ro:Roiniţă ru:Мелисса лекарственная simple:Lemon balm sk:Medovka lekárska sl:Navadna melisa sr:Матичњак fi:Sitruunamelissa sv:Citronmeliss zh:香蜂草