 Anne-Marie David, born May 23, 1952, is a French singer. She has the rare, although not unique, distinction of having represented two different countries at the Eurovision Song Contest, with considerable success on both occasions.She started her musical career with Mary Magdalene role in the French version of Jesus Christ Superstar. In 1973, she was selected to represent Luxembourg as the Grand Duchy sought to repeat its previous year's triumph on home soil. She thus joined the long list of non-native performers to have represented the country in the contest, which also includes France Gall and Vicky Leandros. The 1973 contest crystallised into a titanic three-way battle between songs that have since established themselves as Eurovision classics: David's "Tu te reconnaîtras", the Spanish entry "Eres tú", and the United Kingdom's "Power to All Our Friends", performed by Cliff Richard, five years after he first represented his country with "Congratulations". Ultimately a mere six points separated third place from the winner, but it was David that had the edge, and she duly secured a second successive triumph for Luxembourg.After the contest, she started touring the world. She lived in Turkey for a while. She recorded two singles and one longplay in Turkey and got several awards there.She returned to Eurovision in the 1979 contest held in Jerusalem, this time representing her native France with the song "Je suis l'enfant soleil". However, it was her turn to find herself on the wrong end of a tight three-way finish, with the Israeli entry "Hallelujah" edging to a home victory.She started to tour in France in 1980s. Between 1982-1983, she continued her musical career in Norway. Anne-Marie David then gave up her career, turning her back on music and everything connected with entertainment. She burnt all of her stage clothes and memorabilia and retreated to live an almost hermit like existence in the French countryside. However, she re-emerged around the 50th anniversary of the Eurovision Song Contest in 2005 and agreed to take part in the anniversary festival staged in Copenhagen where she performed the 1972 Eurovision winner "Apres Toi."External linksofficial site     Category:1952 births Category:Living people Category:French singers Category:French female singers Category:French-language singers Category:Eurovision Song Contest winners Category:French Eurovision Song Contest entrants Category:Luxembourgian Eurovision Song Contest entrantsda:Anne-Marie David de:Anne-Marie David es:Anne-Marie David fr:Anne-Marie David it:Anne-Marie David he:אן-מארי דוד lt:Anne-Marie David hu:Anne-Marie David nl:Anne-Marie David no:Anne-Marie David pl:Anne-Marie David pt:Anne-Marie David ro:Anne-Marie David fi:Anne-Marie David sv:Anne-Marie David tr:Anne-Marie David