   Giuseppe Mazzini (June 22, 1805, Genoa, Italy - March 10, 1872, Pisa, Italy) was an Italian patriot, philosopher and politician. His efforts helped bring about the modern Italian stateThe Italian Unification in place of the several separate states, many dominated by foreign powers, that existed until the 19th century. He also helped define the modern European movement for popular democracy in a republican state.Biographyand of the Mazzinian Institute.]]Early yearsMazzini was born in Genoa, then part of the Ligurian Republic, under the rule of the French Empire. His father, Giacomo, was a university professor who had adhered to Jacobin ideology; his mother, Maria Drago, was renowned for her beauty and religious fervour. Since a very early age, Mazzini showed good learning qualities (as well as a precocious interest towards politics and literature), and was admitted to the University at only 15, graduating in law in 1826, initially practicing as a "poor man's lawyer". He also hoped to become a historical novelist or a dramatist, and in the same year he wrote his first essay, Dell'amor patrio di Dante ("On Dante's Patriotic Love"), which was published in 1837. In 1828-1829 he collaborated with a Genoese newspaper, L'indicatore genovese, which was however soon closed by the Piedmontese authorities.In 1830 Mazzini travelled to Tuscany, where he became a member of the Carbonari, a secret association with political purposes. On October 31 of that year he was arrested at Genoa and interned at Savona. During his imprisonment he devised the outlines of a new patriotic movement aiming to replace the unsuccessful Carbonari. Although freed in the early 1831, he chose exile to the life confined into some small hamlet which was requested him by the police, moving to Geneva in Switzerland.Failed insurrectionsIn 1831 he went to Marseille, where he become a popular figure to the other Italian exiles. He lived in the apartment of Giuditta Bellerio Sidoli, a beautiful Modenese widow who would become his lover, and organized a new political society called La giovine Italia (Young Italy). The group's motto was God and the People,Though an adherent of the group, Mazzini was not Christian. and its basic principle was the union of the several states and kingdoms of the peninsula into a single republic as the only true foundation of Italian liberty. The new nation had to be: "One, Independent, Free Republic".The Mazzinian propaganda met some success in Tuscany, Abruzzi, Sicily, Piedmont and his native Liguria, especially among several military officers. It counted c. 60,000 adherents in 1833, with branches in Genoa and other cities. In that year Mazzini launched a first attempt of insurrection, which would spread from Chambéry (then part of the Kingdom of Sardinia), Alessandria, Turin and Genoa. However, the Savoy government discovered the plot before it could begin and many revolutionaries (including Vincenzo Gioberti) were arrested. The repression was ruthless: 12 participants were executed, while Mazzini's best friend and director of the Genoese section of the Giovine Italia, Jacopo Ruffini, killed himself. Mazzini was tried in absence and sentenced to death.Despite this setback (whose victims later created numerous doubts and psychological strife in Mazzini), he organized another uprising for the following year. A group of Italian exiles were to enter Piedmont from Switzerland and spread the revolution there, while Giuseppe Garibaldi, who had recently joined the Giovine Italia, was to do the same from Genoa. However, the Piedmontese troops easily crushed the new attempt.On May 28 1834 Mazzini was arrested at Soletta, and exiled from Switzerland. He moved to Paris, where he was again imprisoned on July 5. He was released only after promising he would move to England. Mazzini, together with a few Italian friends, moved in January 1837 to live in London in very poor economic conditions.Exile in LondonOn April 30 1837 Mazzini reformed the Giovine Italia in London, and on November 10 of the same year he began issuing the Apostolato popolare ("Apostleship of the People").A succession of failed attempts at promoting further uprising in Sicily, Abruzzi, Tuscany and Lombardy-Venetia discouraged Mazzini for a long period, which dragged on until 1840. He was also abandoned by Sidoli, who had returned to Italy to rejoin her children. The help of his mother pushed Mazzini to found several organizations aimed at the unification or liberation of other nations, in the wake of Giovine ItaliaWhich was also reformed in 1840 in Paris, thank to the help of Giuseppe Lamberti: Young Germany, Young Poland, Young Switzerland, which were under the aegis of Young Europe (Giovine Europa). He also created an Italian school for poor people. From London he also wrote an endless series of letters to his agents in Europe and South America, and made friends with Thomas and Jane Welsh Carlyle. The "Young Europe" movement also inspired a group of young Turkish army cadets and students who, later in history, will name themselves the "Young Turks".In 1843 he organized another riot in Bologna, which attracted the attention of two young officers of the Austrian Navy, Attilio and Emilio Bandiera. With Mazzini's support, they landed near Cosenza (Kingdom of Naples), but were arrested and executed. Mazzini accused the British government of having passed information about the expeditions to the Neapolitans, and question was raised in the British Parliament. When it was admitted that his private letters had indeed been opened, and its contents revealed by the Foreign Office to the Neapolitan government, Mazzini gained popularity and support among the British liberals, who were outraged by such a blatant intrusion of the government into his private correspondence.In 1847 he moved again to London, where he wrote a long "open letter" to Pope Pius IX, whose apparently liberal reforms had gained him a momentary status as possible paladin of the unification of Italy. The Pope, however, did not reply. He also founded the People's International League. By March 8 1848 Mazzini was in Paris, where he launched a new political association, the Associazione Nazionale Italiana.The 1848-1849 revoltsOn April 7 1848 Mazzini reached Milan, whose population had rebelled against the Austrian garrison and established a provisional government. The First Italian War of Independence, started by the Piedmontese King Charles Albert to exploit the favourable circumstances in Milan, turned into a total failure. Mazzini, who had never been popular in the city because he wanted Lombardy to become a republic instead to join Piedmont, abandoned Milan. He joined Garibaldi's irregular force at Bergamo, moving to Switzerland with him.On February 9 1849 a Republic was declared in Rome, with Pius IX forced to flee to Gaeta. On February 9 of that year Mazzini reached the city, and was appointed as "triumvir" of the new republic on March 29, becoming soon the true leader of the government and showing good administrative capabilities in social reforms. However, when the French troops called by the Pope made clear that the resistance of the Republican troops, led by Garibaldi, was in vain, on July 12 1849 Mazzini set out for Marseille, from where he moved again to Switzerland.Late activitiesMazzini spent all of 1850 hiding from the Swiss police. In July he founded the association Amici di Italia in London, to attract consensus towards the Italian liberation cause. Two failed riots in Mantua (1852) and Milan (1853) were a crippling blow for the Mazzinian organization, whose prestige never recovered. He later opposed the alliance signed by Savoy with Austria for the Crimean War. Also vain was the expeditions of Felice Orsini in Carrara of 1853-1854.In 1856 he returned to Genoa to organize a series of uprisings: the only serious attempt was that of Carlo Pisacane in Calabria, which again met a dismaying end. Mazzini managed to escape the police, but was condemned to death by default. From this moment on, Mazzini was more of a spectator than a protagonist of the Italian Risorgimento, whose reins were now strongly in the hands of the Savoyard monarch Victor Emmanuel II and his skilled prime minister, Camillo Benso, Conte di Cavour. The latter defined him as "Chief of the assassins".In 1858 he founded another journal in London, Pensiero e azione ("Thought and Action". Also there, on February 21 1859, together with 151 republicans he signed a manifesto against the alliance between Piedmont and the King of France which resulted in the Second War of Italian Independence and the conquest of Lombardy. On May 2 1860 he tried to reach Garibaldi, who was going to launch his famous Expedition of the ThousandWhich, apparently, was to follow a plan previously devised by Mazzini himself. in southern Italy. In the same year he released Doveri dell'uomo ("Duties of Men"), a synthesis of his moral, political and social thoughts. In mid-September he was in Naples, then under Garibaldi's dictatorship, but was invited by the local vice-dictator Giorgio Pallavicino to move away.In 1862 he again joined Garibaldi during his failed attempt to free Rome. In 1866 Venetia was ceded by France, who obtained it from Austria at the end of the Austro-Prussian War, to the new Kingdom of Italy, which had been created in 1861 under the Savoy monarchy. At this time Mazzini was frequently in polemics with the course followed by the unification of his country, and in 1867 he refused a seat in the Italian Chamber of Deputies. In 1870, during an attempt to free Sicily, he was arrested and imprisoned in Gaeta. He was freed in October due to the amnesty conceded after the successful capture of Rome, and returned to London in mid-December.  Giuseppe Mazzini died in Pisa in 1872. His funeral was held in Genoa, with 100,000 people taking part in them.Legacy and importanceMazzini believed that Italian unification could only be achieved through a popular uprising. He relentlessly agitated the Italian populace to revolt, and encouraged, initiated, and organized numerous small and large revolts from his exile in England. Although the odds may have been against his revolutionaries in any given situation, the trend of history was with Mazzini and so every challenge to local authority advanced the cause of Risorgimento.Mazzini continued to avow this purpose in his writings and pursued it through exile and adversity with inflexible constancy. Mazzini's importance was more ideological than practical, but the same could be said of Italian national identity. Regardless, Mazzini is credited with fashioning the political idea that Italy was one nation, rather than a patchwork of antiquated Roman city-states. It would be others who would make this idea a reality though. After the failure of the 1848 revolutions, the Italian nationalists began to look to Victor Emmanuel II, King of Sardinia and his prime minister Count Cavour as the leaders of the unification movement. This meant separating national unification from the social and political reforms advocated by Mazzini.  Cavour was able to secure an alliance with France, leading to a series of wars between 1859 and 1861 that culminated in the formation of a unified kingdom of Italy. Garibaldi, no more a follower of Mazzini, also played a major role. The kingdom rising from this process was very far from the republic preached by Mazzini.Mazzini never accepted a monarchical united Italy and continued to work for a democratic republic. In 1870 he was arrested and sent again into exile, even though he managed to return under a false name and lived in Pisa until his death in 1872. The political movement he led was called the Italian Republican Party and was active in Italy until the 1990s. The party still exists, but no longer has a central role in politics, hardly managing to present own lists, and has recently experienced schisms.A bronze bust, unveiled in 1878, of Mazzini overlooks the Sheep Meadow in New York City's Central Park. The sculptor was Giovanni Turini (1841-1899), and it was a gift from Italian-Americans. Inscribed on one side of the bust's pedestal are the words "Pensiero Ed Azione," "thought and action," which was the name of the newspaper he founded in London 1858.Mazzini was also a key supporter of the idea of nationalism. In "The Duties of Man" Mazzini argues that one's country is like one's family and it is a necessity that one love it and care for it. He also argues that geographical conditions should create countries since these conditions were created by God, unlike borders, which were created by jealous and greedy politicians.CriticismsKarl Marx, on an interview by R. Landor in 1871, said that Mazzini's ideas represents "nothing better than the old idea of a middle-class republic." Marx believed, especially after the Revolutions of 1848 this middle class point of view had become reactionary and proleteriat has nothing to do with them. Interview with Karl MarxOther topicsMazzini was an early advocate of a "United States of Europe" about a century before the European Union began to take shape. For him, European unification was a logical continuation of Italian unification.See alsoRoman Republic (19th century)History of ItalyItalian unificationJessie White MarioGeorgios GrivasGreek War of IndependenceAthanasios DiakosSubhas Chandra Bose, was leader in the Indian independence movement, and he was influenced by Giuseppe Garibaldi and Giuseppe Mazzini.WorksOn Nationality- 1852ReferencesFootnotesExternal linksBiography at cronologia.it  Category:Italian people of the Risorgimento Category:Italian politicians Category:Italian writers Category:People of the Revolutions of 1848 Category:People from Genoa (city) Category:1805 births Category:1872 deaths Category:Freemasonry in Italy Category:Carbonariast:Giuseppe Mazzini bs:Giuseppe Mazzini bg:Джузепе Мацини cs:Giuseppe Mazzini cy:Giuseppe Mazzini da:Giuseppe Mazzini de:Giuseppe Mazzini es:Giuseppe Mazzini fa:جوزپه ماتزینی fr:Giuseppe Mazzini ko:주세페 마치니 it:Giuseppe Mazzini he:ג'וזפה מציני ka:ჯუზეპე მაძინი la:Iosephus Mazzini nl:Giuseppe Mazzini ja:ジュゼッペ・マッツィーニ no:Giuseppe Mazzini oc:Giuseppe Mazzini pl:Giuseppe Mazzini pt:Giuseppe Mazzini ru:Мадзини, Джузеппе sk:Giuseppe Mazzini sr:Ђузепе Мацини sv:Giuseppe Mazzini uk:Джузеппе Мацзіні vec:Giuseppe Mazzini war:Giuseppe Mazzini zh:糾澤佩·馬志尼