 Dryosaurus ( DRY-oh-SAWR-us) meaning 'oak lizard', due to the vague oak shape of its cheek teeth (Greek δρυο/dryo meaning 'oak' and σαυρος/sauros meaning 'lizard') was a genus of an ornithopod dinosaur that lived in the Late Jurassic Period. It was an iguanodont (formerly classified as a hypsilophodont). Fossils have been found in the western United States and Tanzania and were first discovered in the late 19th century. The Tanzanian site proved to be an especially fertile hunting ground for Dryosaurus fossils, this specimen was previously called Dysalotosaurus (meaning "lost wood reptile"). An expedition led by German paleontologist Werner Janensch found a great many fossils that represented Dryosaurus at all stages of development.  Dryosaurus had a long neck, long, slender legs and a long, stiff tail. Its 'arms', however, with five 'fingers' on each 'hand', were short. It was about eight to 14 feet (2.5 to 4.5 m) long, five feet (1.5 m) tall (at the hips) and weighed 170 to 200 pounds (80 to 90 kg). Its eyes were quite large, leading many to believe that it possessed excellent eyesight.Dryosaurus had a horny beak and cheek teeth and, like other ornithopods, was a herbivore. Some scientists suggest that it had cheek-like structures to prevent the loss of food while the animal processed it in the mouth. It was probably a herd animal, which raised and protected its young after hatching.A quick and agile runner with strong legs, Dryosaurus used its tail as a counter-balance. It probably relied on its speed as a main defense against carnivorous dinosaurs.Its intelligence, as measured by its Encephalization Quotient (brain-to-body ratio), was midway when compared to other dinosaurs.In popular cultureDryosaurus was featured in Discovery Channel special, When Dinosaurs Roamed America.Dryosaurus was also featured in the Vivendi Universal game, Jurassic Park: Operation Genesis.Dryosaurus appeared in the second episode of the 1999 BBC series Walking with Dinosaurs, Time of the Titans, and in its 2000 special, The Ballad Of Big Al.External linksDryosaurus, from the Dinosaur Encyclopaedia at Univ. of Illinois at Urbana-Champagnehttp://www.users.qwest.net/~jstweet1/iguanodontia.htmCategory:Jurassic dinosaurs Category:Iguanodonts Category:Dinosaurs of North America Category:Dinosaurs of Africa Category:Morrison faunaca:Driosaure cs:Dryosaurus de:Dryosaurus es:Dryosaurus fr:Dryosaurus it:Dryosaurus nl:Dryosaurus ja:ドリオサウルス pl:Driozaur pt:Driossauro simple:Dryosaurus sk:Dryosaurus fi:Dryosaurus sv:Dryosaurus zh:橡树龙