 | Origin = Santa Cruz, California, U.S. | Instrument = Vocals, Guitar, Keyboards, Piano, Synthesizer, Organ, Percussion | Genre = Alternative rock, Hard rock, Grunge, Post-grunge, Heavy metal | Occupation = Musician, singer-songwriter | Years_active = 1986&ndash;present | Label = Atlantic | Associated_acts = Stone Temple PilotsVelvet RevolverCamp FreddyThe Magnificent BastardsThe Wondergirls | URL = scottweiland.com Scott Weiland (born Scott Richard Kline on October 27, 1967) is an American musician, lyricist, and vocalist, most notably known for his work with Grammy Award-winning American rock band Stone Temple Pilots, and also for his four-year career with Velvet Revolver. After a five-year hiatus, the STP reunion tour kicked off at the Rock on the Range festival in May 2008NEW ROCK 99.7 THE BLITZ&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;. He was the frontman of the Grammy Award-winning supergroup Velvet Revolver during his time away from STP, but parted ways with the band on April 1, 2008. Weiland's split from Velvet Revolver also led to his departure from his side-project band Camp Freddy. Weiland's second solo album, Happy In Galoshes, will be released on November 25, 2008.He is well known for his flamboyant and energetic onstage persona and for constantly changing his appearance and vocal style.MTV.com: A Walk On The Weiland Side&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;BiographyEarly yearsWeiland was born as Scott Kline in Santa Cruz, California. His surname was changed after being adopted by his stepfather David Weiland at age 5.Velvet-Revolver.com Band Info: Scott Wylan Around that time, Weiland moved to Chagrin Falls, Ohio, where he attended the Kenston School District. He returned to California as a teenager and attended Edison High School in Huntington Beach.Stone Temple Pilots (Late 1980s-1997) In 1986 Weiland met bassist Robert DeLeo at a Black Flag concert, and shortly thereafter formed the band Mighty Joe Young with DeLeo's brother Dean on guitar and Eric Kretz on drums and recorded the Mighty Joe Young Demo in 1990. After signing with Atlantic Records it was discovered that "Mighty Joe Young" was already taken so they changed their name to Shirley Temple's Pussy. Not long afterwards the band's name was changed again to Stone Temple Pilots, due to pressure from their record labelStone Temple Pilots Tickets - Stone Temple Pilots Concert Tour Schedule Show Tickets Broker&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;.Weiland wrote the band's lyrics and performed vocals. In 1992, they released their first album, Core, and their first hit, "Sex Type Thing" led to them becoming one of the most influential bands of the grunge movement, the music genre that was spawned out of Seattle in the late eighties and became rock and roll's central movement in the early-mid 1990s. The band was widely accused of imitating bands such as Alice in Chains, Pearl Jam, Soundgarden and Nirvana in an attempt to cash in on the scene's burgeoning popularity. Critics also pointed out that Weiland's vocal style at the time was very similar to that of Layne Staley's and Eddie Vedder's. Weiland has rejected such comparisons, however, he cites Jim Morrison Mundy, Chris &quot;Q&amp;A with Scott Wylan "Rolling Stone". February 10, 1994. and David Bowie as more influential on his vocal techniques and sound. Despite negative reviews from critics, Core was extremely successful, eventually being certified 8x platinum by the RIAA.In 1994, Weiland and STP released their second record, Purple, which saw the development of a more distinctive identity for the band. While still a clear continuation of their previous techniques, the album featured a more "classic rock" sound, and had a mixture of punk, bossa nova, and acoustic songs. Like Core, Purple was a big success for the band, spawning three hit singles and selling over 6 million copies. The year prior, STP toured with the Butthole Surfers and Weiland developed a heroin addiction, claiming Butthole Surfers singer Gibby Haynes introduced him to heroin, which Gibby denies. Dave Ling - Music Journalist&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;In 1995, Weiland was caught and convicted of buying crack cocaine. He was sentenced to one year's probation. Issues with drug use did not clear up after his sentence. As his drug problems increased, Scott moved into a hotel for two months with Courtney Love and claimed to have "shot drugs the whole time" with her.BLABBERMOUTH.NET - VELVET REVOLVER Singer Says Family Life Has Kept Him Off Drugs&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; STP was forced to cancel most of their 1996-1997 tour in support of their third release, Tiny Music... Songs from the Vatican Gift Shop. Although Tiny Music... was certified 2x platinum, the canceled tour caused the album to fall quickly off the charts.''12 Bar Blues'' (1998)With Weiland's status in the band uncertain and unpredictable, STP went on hiatus. The other members of the band created the group Talk Show with lead singer Dave Coutts. Weiland, meanwhile, adopted an androgynous look and released a solo album in 1998 called 12 Bar Blues. Weiland wrote most of the songs on the album, and collaborated with several artists, notably Daniel Lanois, Sheryl Crow, Brad Mehldau and Jeff Nolan. The album was a commercial failure but it managed to achieve some critical acclaim. It was also during this time that Weiland was caught in Manhattan buying heroin, dressed like a pimp, ending his brief tour. A previous conviction in Los Angeles, coupled with numerous probation violations, earned Weiland jail time.Back with STP (1999-2003)His period in jail had apparently helped to wean him from his habit, and once released, he rejoined Stone Temple Pilots. In 1999, the band released No. 4. The album contained the hit single "Sour Girl" which featured a strange, surreal music video with Sarah Michelle Gellar. That same year, Weiland also recorded two songs with the short-lived supergroup The Wondergirls.In November 2000, Weiland was invited to perform on the show [[VH1 Storytellers|VH1 Storytellers]] with the surviving members of The Doors. Weiland did vocals on two Doors songs, "Break on Through (To the Other Side)" and "Five To One." That same month Stone Temple Pilots appeared on The Doors tribute CD, Stoned Immaculate with their own rendition of "Break On Through" as the lead track.In late 2001, Weiland was arrested on domestic violence charges in Las Vegas, apparently for shoving his wife, Mary Forsberg. However, the charges were eventually deferred upon the couple agreeing to counseling. Soon after, Forsberg filed for divorce but the couple eventually reconciled. Weiland's career also took a hit, with an altercation between Weiland and Dean DeLeo on the final gig of STP's Shangri-La Dee Da tour, leading to the band's official demise with much of the speculation surrounding Weiland's inability to balance personal issues.Velvet Revolver (2003-2008) After the breakup of STP, Weiland was arrested on his birthday on October 27 2003 in Hollywood, California after a traffic collision. He was charged with driving under the influence of drugs and alcohol. His charges were eventually dismissed after he successfully completed rehab and subsequent drug tests.Around this time, Weiland was asked by former Guns N' Roses bassist Duff McKagan to lead a band with Duff and the former GNR members Slash and Matt Sorum, as well as Dave Kushner. The band used the working title "The Project", and Weiland later named the group "Black Velvet Revolver", eventually shortening the name to "Velvet Revolver."Velvet Revolver's debut album Contraband was released in June 2004 to much success. It debuted at number one on the Billboard 200 and has sold over three million copies world-wide to date. Two of the album's songs, "Slither" and "Fall to Pieces", reached number one on the Billboard Modern Rock Tracks chart. The song "Slither" also won a Grammy Award for Best Hard Rock Performance with Vocal in 2005, an award Weiland had won previously with STP for the song "Plush" in 1994. That same year, Weiland appeared on Last Call with Carson Daly and performed a new solo song, "The Man I Didn't Know", a country-style ballad that deals with his relationship with his father.In 2006, Weiland launched his own record label, Softdrive Records. Around the same time as Softdrive Records was launched, he announced plans for a second solo album, as well as plans to write an autobiography and start his own clothing line with Von Dutch. Weiland also re-recorded the STP outtake "Learning to Drive", for the 2007 horror film Bug. After an altercation at a hotel, Weiland's wife went home and torched $10,000 worth of her husband’s clothing in their front yard. Ironically, Weiland had just announced that his label signed the up-and-coming rock band, Something to Burn.The band released their second album, Libertad, on July 3, 2007. In an interview with Rolling Stone in 2007, Weiland mentioned that the only albums he has written sober are Libertad and STP's Core.Velvet Revolver | Home&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; The album sold a little under 100,000 copies during its first week and has sold over 230,000 copies as of September 2007, which fell short of expectations in failing to even meet the first week sales of Contraband. allmusic ((( Libertad &gt; Overview )))&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; Amazon.com: Libertad In December 2007 Scott Weiland was arrested and charged with DUI, his first arrest in over four years (since October 27, 2003). On February 7, 2008, Blabbermouth.net officially reported that Weiland checked himself into rehab. This resulted in the cancellation of Velvet Revolver's Australian tour (which had initially been postponed for two months already). The article does not mention why Weiland, who has claimed sobriety since 2003, entered the facility. Blabbermouth.Net - Velvet Revolver'S Scott Weiland Back In Rehab&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; He left rehab in early March, according to his lawyer. Scott Weiland Out of Rehab - TMZ.com&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Weiland recently revealed on March 20, 2008 at Velvet Revolver's show in Glasgow that this would be the band's final tour. Matt Sorum posted a message on his website the next day discussing the band's situation and said, "You could tell who was unhappy last night," and "some people in this business don't realize how great of a life they have." Weiland shot back by telling Blabbermouth.net, ""Well, first of all, the state of my family affairs is really none of his business, since he is too immature to have a real relationship, let alone children. So don't attempt to stand in a man's shoes when you haven't walked his path."BLABBERMOUTH.NET - SCOTT WEILAND Fires Back At MATT SORUM: 'Ego And Jealousy Can Get The Better Of Anyone'&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; Recently, Slash hinted in an interview with Classic Rock magazine that, contrary to Weiland's assertions, Velvet Revolver will continue beyond its current tour. When asked "With Scott singing?", Slash replied "I have no comment on that", and laughed.Slash discusses Velvet Revolver's future&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; On Tuesday, April 1st, it was announced by a number of media outlets that Scott Weiland would no longer be in Velvet Revolver.Velvet Revolver splits with rocker Scott Weiland This was confirmed by Slash. The following day, Scott responded to Slash's announcement by stating that "it is a blatant and tired excuse to cover up the truth." Weiland also made comments regarding STP's reunion, stating, "Personally speaking, I choose to look forward to the future and performing with a group of friends I have known my entire life, people who have always had my back," Weiland continued. "This also speaks to my commitment to my music and my fellow bandmates in Stone Temple Pilots and to the fans who I feel would much rather watch a group of musicians who enjoy being together as opposed to a handful of discontents who at one time used to call themselves a gang."STP Reunion &amp; Second Solo Album (2008-present)Stone Temple Pilots announced a 65-date U.S. tour on April 7, 2008 in Los Angeles and performed together for the first time since 2002. The reunion tour kicked off at the Rock on the Range festival on May 17, 2008.On November 25, 2008, Weiland is scheduled to release his second solo album, Happy In Galoshes, produced by Weiland and songwriting-producing partner Doug Grean. The solo tour to support Happy In Galoshes will begin following STP's reunion tour BILLBOARD.COM New Scott Weiland Solo Disc On The Way.STP is expected to record their sixth album sometime in 2009.BLABBERMOUTH.NET Stone Temple Pilots to Record New Studio Album Weiland has also confirmed he is writing his autobiography with David Ritz.On April 28, 2008, Weiland was sentenced to 192 hours in county jail for his November 2007 DUI. He was also required to complete an 18-month alcohol program, as well as pay $2000 in fines, and will be on probation for four years. Weiland entered a Los Angeles County jail on May 12, but was released later that same day.That Was Fast -- Weiland Out of Jail - TMZ.com.Personal lifeWeiland married Janina Castaneda on September 17, 1994, but the couple divorced in 2000. He married model Mary Forsberg on May 20, 2000. They have two young children, Noah (born 2000) and Lucy (born 2002).Weiland suffers from bipolar disorder, yet according to an interview with VH1.com, he isn't under medication, consequently suffering from mood swings. VH1.com : Stone Temple Pilots - Rhapsody Music Downloads&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Weiland had a brief friendship with Courtney Love around 1998, and admitted they used drugs together.Weiland is a Notre Dame football fan, as his father is an alumnus. In September 2006, Weiland performed at the University of Notre Dame's Legends Restaurant on the night before a football game. He sang several of his solo songs, as well as "Interstate Love Song" and a cover of Pink Floyd's "Wish You Were Here."Weiland's younger brother Michael died of a drug overdose. The Velvet Revolver songs "For a Brother" and "Pills, Demons, & Etc" from the album Libertad are about Michael.Other worksHe performed with Fred Durst and Limp Bizkit on the album Significant Other in the song "Nobody Like You" along with Jonathan Davis from Korn. He was also tributed in the same album with the song "Show Me What You Got" along with Eminem, Kid Rock, Jordan, The Firm, Wu-Tang Clan, and Staind. He was also featured on Limp Bizkit's third album, Chocolate Starfish and the Hot Dog Flavored Water, in the song "Hold On."Weiland and his son Noah were featured on comedian David Spade's The Showbiz Show with David Spade during a comedy sketch about discouraging music file sharing in 2005. Noah has a line during the sketch in which he asks a little girl, "Please buy my daddy's album so I can have food to eat".He appeared on VH1 Decades Live as Cyndi Lauper's guest performer in "Money Changes Everything" and "Time After Time".He was one of the guest singers present for The Doors reunion on VH1 Storytellers. He sang "Break on Through (To the Other Side)" and "Five to One."Weiland performed an acoustic version of the Alice In Chains song "Angry Chair with the current members of AIC on September 30, 2007 in Austin, TX.DiscographySolo discography1998 12 Bar Blues2008 Happy In GaloshesStone Temple Pilots discography1992 Core 8x Platinum1994 Purple 6x Platinum1996 Tiny Music... Songs from the Vatican Gift Shop 2x Platinum1999 No. 4 Platinum2001 Shangri-La Dee Da Gold2003 Thank You2009 Upcoming Stone Temple Pilots albumVelvet Revolver discography2004 Contraband 2x Platinum2007 LibertadSoundtrack1994 The Crow - "Big Empty"1995 Tank Girl (w/ Magnificent Bastards) - "Mockingbird Girl"1998 Great Expectations - "Lady, Your Roof Brings Me Down"2001 Not Another Teen Movie - "But Not Tonight"2003 Hulk -"Set Me Free"2005 The Fantastic Four- "Come on, Come in"2007 Bug - Original Motion Picture Soundtrack - "Beautiful Day" ("Learning To Drive")2007 Evan Almighty - "Revolution"ReferencesExternal linksScott Weiland Official SiteScott Weiland Official MySpace Site Category:1967 births Category:Living people Category:American rock singers Category:American male singers Category:People with bipolar disorder Category:People from San Diego, California Category:People from Santa Cruz, California Category:California musicians Category:Grunge musicians Category:Stone Temple Pilots members Category:Velvet Revolver members Category:Self-identified drug addictscs:Scott Weiland de:Scott Weiland es:Scott Weiland fr:Scott Weiland gl:Scott Weiland it:Scott Weiland nl:Scott Weiland no:Scott Weiland pl:Scott Weiland pt:Scott Weiland sk:Scott Weiland fi:Scott Weiland sv:Scott Weiland