 | birth_place = New York City,USA | death_date = | death_place = | residence = | citizenship = | nationality = | ethnicity = | field = Cognitive Science | work_institutions = MIT | alma_mater = Harvard UniversityPrinceton University | doctoral_advisor = Albert W. Tucker | doctoral_students = Manuel BlumDaniel Bobrow Carl HewittDanny HillisJoel MosesGerald Jay SussmanIvan SutherlandTerry WinogradPatrick Winston | known_for = Artificial intelligence | prizes = Turing Award (1969)Japan Prize (1990)IJCAI Award for Research Excellence (1991)Benjamin Franklin Medal (2001) | religion = Scientist | footnotes =  Marvin Lee Minsky (born August 9, 1927) is an American cognitive scientist in the field of artificial intelligence (AI), co-founder of MIT's AI laboratory, and author of several texts on AI and philosophy.BiographyMarvin Lee Minsky was born in New York City, where he attended The Fieldston School and the Bronx High School of Science. He later attended Phillips Academy in Andover, Massachusetts. He served in the US Navy from 1944 to 1945. He holds a BA in Mathematics from Harvard (1950) and a PhD in the same field from Princeton (1954). He has been on the MIT faculty since 1958. He is currently Toshiba Professor of Media Arts and Sciences, and Professor of electrical engineering and computer science.Minsky won the Turing Award in 1969, the Japan Prize in 1990, the IJCAI Award for Research Excellence in 1991, and the Benjamin Franklin Medal from the Franklin Institute in 2001Marvin Minsky - The Franklin Institute Awards - Laureate Database. Franklin Institute. Retrieved on March 25, 2008..Minsky is listed on Google Directory as one of the all time top six people in the field of artificial intelligence.Google Directory - Computers &gt; Artificial Intelligence &gt; People&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; Isaac Asimov described Minsky as one of two people he has ever met who were flat out smarter than himself, the other being Carl Sagan. Patrick Winston has also described Minsky as the smartest person he has ever met. Minsky is a childhood friend of the Yale University critic Harold Bloom, who has referred to him as "the sinister Marvin Minsky." Ray Kurzweil has referred to Minsky as his mentor.Minsky's patents include the first head-mounted graphical display (1963) and the confocal scanning microscopeThe patent for Minsky's Microscopy Apparatus was applied for in 1957, and subsequently granted US Patent Number 3,013,467 in 1961. According to his published biography on the MIT Media Lab webpage, "In 1956, when a Junior Fellow at Harvard, Minsky invented and built the first Confocal Scanning Microscope, an optical instrument with unprecedented resolution and image quality". (1957, a predecessor to today's widely used confocal laser scanning microscope). He developed with Seymour Papert the first Logo "turtle". Minsky also built, in 1951, the first randomly wired neural network learning machine, SNARC.Minsky wrote the book Perceptrons (with Seymour Papert), which became the foundational work in the analysis of artificial neural networks. This book is the center of a controversy in the history of AI, as some claim it to have had great importance in driving research away from neural networks in the 1970s, and contributing to the so-called AI winter. But none of the mathematical proofs present in the book, which are still important and interesting to the study of perceptron networks, were ever countered.Minsky was an adviserFor more, see this interview, http://mitpress.mit.edu/e-books/Hal/chap2/two3.html&lt;/ref&gt; on the movie 2001: A Space Odyssey and is referred to in the movie and book.In the early 1970s at the MIT Artificial Intelligence Lab, Minsky and Seymour Papert started developing what came to be called The Society of Mind theory. The theory attempts to explain how what we call intelligence could be a product of the interaction of non-intelligent parts. Minsky says that the biggest source of ideas about the theory came from his work in trying to create a machine that uses a robotic arm, a video camera, and a computer to build with children's blocks. In 1986 Minsky published Robotics, a comprehensive book on the theory which, unlike most of his previously published work, was written for a general audience.In November 2006, Minsky published The Emotion Machine, a book that critiques many popular theories of how human minds work and suggests alternative theories, often replacing simple ideas with more complex ones. Recent drafts of the book are freely available from his webpage.Marvin Minsky's Home Page&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;AffiliationsMarvin Minsky is affiliated with the following organizations:United States National Academy of EngineeringUnited States National Academy of SciencesExtropy Institute's Council of AdvisorsExtropy Institute Directors &amp; Advisors&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Alcor Life Extension Foundation's Scientific Advisory BoardAlcor: Scientific Advisory Board&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Minsky is a critic of the Loebner Prize.Minsky -thread.html&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Salon.com Technology | Artificial stupidity&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Trivia 's PDP-1, 2007]]Minsky is an actor in an artificial intelligence koan (attributed to his student, Danny Hillis) from the Jargon file:In the days when Sussman was a novice, Minsky once came to him as he sat hacking at the PDP-6."What are you doing?" asked Minsky."I am training a randomly wired neural net to play Tic-tac-toe," Sussman replied."Why is the net wired randomly?", asked Minsky."I do not want it to have any preconceptions of how to play," Sussman said.Minsky then shut his eyes."Why do you close your eyes?" Sussman asked his teacher."So that the room will be empty."At that moment, Sussman was enlightened. What I actually said was, "If you wire it randomly, it will still have preconceptions of how to play. But you just won't know what those preconceptions are." -- Marvin Minsky Minsky played himself in the documentary "Victim of the Brain" which also featured philosopher Daniel Dennett and Douglas Hofstadter.Minsky has three children: Henry Minsky, Julie Minsky and Margaret Minsky. He also has four grandchildren: Gigi Minsky, Harry Minsky, Charlotte Minsky and Miles Steele.Selected worksNeural Nets and the Brain Model Problem, Ph.D. dissertation, Princeton University, 1954. The first publication of theories and theorems about learning in neural networks, secondary reinforcement, circulating dynamic storage and synaptic modifications.Computation: Finite and Infinite Machines, Prentice-Hall, 1967. A standard text in computer science. Out of print now, but soon to reappear.Semantic Information Processing, MIT Press, 1968. This collection had a strong influence on modern computational linguistics.Perceptrons, with Seymour Papert, MIT Press, 1969 (Enlarged edition, 1988).Artificial Intelligence, with Seymour Papert, Univ. of Oregon Press, 1972. Out of print.Communication with Alien Intelligence, 1985Robotics, Doubleday, 1986. Edited collection of essays about robotics, with Introduction and Postscript by Minsky.The Society of Mind, Simon and Schuster, 1987. The first comprehensive description of the Society of Mind theory of intellectual structure and development. See also The Society of Mind (CD-ROM version), Voyager, 1996.The Turing Option, with Harry Harrison, Warner Books, New York, 1992. Science fiction thriller about the construction of a superintelligent robot in the year 2023.The Emotion MachineSimon &amp; Schuster: The Emotion Machine: Commonsense Thinking, Artificial Intelligence, and the Future of the Human Mind (Hardcover)&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; Simon and Schuster, November 2006. ISBN 0-7432-7663-9 (book available online on his MIT home page; see below)See alsoGerry SussmanJohn McCarthyTerry WinogradTranshumanismReferencesExternal linksMarvin Minsky's home pageOral history interview with Marvin Minsky at Charles Babbage Institute, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis. Minsky describes artificial intelligence (AI) research at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). Topics include: the work of John McCarthy; changes in the MIT research laboratories with the advent of Project MAC; research in the areas of expert systems, graphics, word processing, and time-sharing; variations in the Advanced Research Projects Agency (ARPA) attitude toward AI.Oral history interview with Terry Winograd at Charles Babbage Institute, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis]. Winograd describes his work in computer science, linguistics, and artificial intelligence at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), dscussing the work of Marvin Minsky and others.Scientist on the Set: An Interview with Marvin MinskyConsciousness Is A Big Suitcase: A talk with Marvin MinskyVideo of Minsky speaking at the International Conference on Complex Systems, hosted by the New England Complex Systems Institute (NECSI)&quot;The Emotion Universe&quot;: Video with Marvin MinskyMarvin Minsky at the Mathematics Genealogy ProjectRadio interview on Philosophy TalkMarvin Minsky's thoughts on the Fermi Paradox at the Transvisions 2007 conference  Category:1927 births Category:Members of the National Academy of Sciences Category:Living people Category:Jewish American scientists Category:Jewish inventors Category:Jewish atheists Category:Bronx High School of Science alumni Category:Harvard University alumni Category:Princeton University alumni Category:Artificial intelligence researchers Category:American computer scientists Category:Cognitive scientists Category:Computer pioneers Category:Turing Award laureates Category:Massachusetts Institute of Technology faculty Category:Usenet people Category:Transhumanists Category:Japan Prize laureates Category:The Benjamin Franklin Medal in Computer and Cognitive Science laureates Category:Fellows of the American Association for Artificial Intelligencecs:Marvin Minsky de:Marvin Minsky et:Marvin Minsky es:Marvin Minsky eo:Marvin Minsky fr:Marvin Minsky ko:마빈 민스키 hr:Marvin Minsky io:Marvin Minsky id:Marvin Minsky is:Marvin Lee Minsky it:Marvin Minsky he:מרווין מינסקי ml:മാര്‍വിന്‍ മിന്‍സ്കി nl:Marvin Minsky ja:マービン・ミンスキー pl:Marvin Minsky pt:Marvin Minsky ro:Marvin Minsky ru:Минский, Марвин Ли sr:Марвин Мински fi:Marvin Minsky zh:马文·闵斯基