  Autumn (also known as fall in North American English) is one of the four temperate seasons. Autumn marks the transition from summer into winter, usually in late September (northern hemisphere) or late March (southern hemisphere) when the arrival of night becomes noticeably earlier.Meteorological]]Astronomical]]Northern hemisphere1 September - 30 NovemberNOAA's National Weather Service Glossary.Autumnal equinox (22–23 September) - Winter solstice (21–22 December)Southern hemisphere1 March - 31 May20 March - 21 JuneAutumn starts on or around 15 September and ends on about 6 November in solar term.In Ireland, autumn begins on 1 August and ends 31 October, due to the Irish calendar.EtymologyThe word autumn comes from the Old French word autompne (automne in modern French), and was later normalized to the original Latin word autumnus.''Etymology of 'autumn' '' - New Shorter Oxford English Dictionary, 1997 Edition There are rare examples of its use as early as the 14th century, but it became common by the 16th century.Before the 16th century, harvest was the term usually used to refer to the season. However as more people gradually moved from working the land to living in towns (especially those who could read and write, the only people whose use of language we now know), the word harvest lost its reference to the time of year and came to refer only to the actual activity of reaping, and fall, as well as autumn, began to replace it as a reference to the season.The alternative word fall is now mostly a North American English word for the season. It traces its origins to old Germanic languages. The exact derivation is unclear, the Old English fiæll or feallan and the Old Norse fall all being possible candidates. However, these words all have the meaning "to fall from a height" and are clearly derived either from a common root or from each other. The term came to denote the season in the 16th century, a contraction of Middle English expressions like "fall of the leaf" and "fall of the year".Online Etymology Dictionary origins of the divers usages of the word "fall"During the 17th century, English immigration to the colonies in North America was at its peak, and the new settlers took their language with them. While the term fall gradually became obsolescent in Britain, it became the more common term in North America, where autumn is nonetheless preferred in scientific and often in literary contexts.In popular cultureHarvest associationof Autumn (Currier & Ives Lithograph, 1871).]] , "Autumn Leaves".]] Autumn's association with the transition from warm to cold weather, and its related status as the season of the primary harvest, has dominated its themes and popular images. In Western cultures, personifications of autumn are usually pretty, well-fed females adorned with fruits, vegetables and grains and wheat that ripen at this time. Most ancient cultures featured autumnal celebrations of the harvest, often the most important on their calendars. Still extant echoes of these celebrations are found in the mid-autumn Thanksgiving holiday of the United States, and the Jewish Sukkot holiday with its roots as a full moon harvest festival of "tabernacles" (huts wherein the harvest was processed and which later gained religious significance). There are also the many North American Indian festivals tied to harvest of autumnally ripe foods gathered in the wild, the Chinese Mid-Autumn or Moon festival, and many others. The predominant mood of these autumnal celebrations is a gladness for the fruits of the earth mixed with a certain melancholy linked to the imminent arrival of harsh weather.This view is presented in John Keats' poem To Autumn where he describes the season as a time of bounteous fecundity, a time of 'mellow fruitfulness'.Melancholy associationAutumn in poetry has often been associated with melancholy. The possibilities of summer are gone, and the chill of winter is on the horizon. Skies turn grey, and people turn inward, both physically and mentally.Cyclical Regenerative Time - (c) Autumn (from 'Symbolism of Place', symbolism.org website) Rainer Maria Rilke, a German poet, has expressed such sentiments in one of his most famous poems, Herbsttag (Autumn Day), which reads in part:Wer jetzt kein Haus hat, baut sich keines mehr.Wer jetzt allein ist, wird es lange bleiben,wird wachen, lesen, lange Briefe schreibenund wird in den Alleen hin und herunruhig wandern, wenn die Blätter treiben.This translates roughly (there is official translation) to:Who now has no house, will not build one (anymore).Who now is alone, will remain so for long,will wake, and read, and write long lettersand back and forth on the boulevardswill restlessly wander, while the leaves blow.Similar examples may be found in William Butler Yeats' poem The Wild Swans at Coole where the maturing season that the poet observes symbolically represents his own aging self. Like the natural world that he observes he too has reached his prime and now must look forward to the inevitability of old age and death. Paul Verlaine's "Chanson d'automne" ("Autumn Song") is likewise characterized by strong, painful feelings of sorrow.Other associationsIn North America, autumn is also associated with the Halloween season (which in turn was influenced by Samhain, a Celtic autumn festival),Halloween (from the Microsoft Encarta encyclopedia) and with it a widespread marketing campaign that promotes it. The television, film, book, costume, home decoration, and confectionery industries use this time of year to promote products closely associated with such holiday, with promotions going from early September to 31 October, since their themes rapidly lose strength once the holiday ends, and advertising starts concentrating on Christmas.Since 1997, Autumn has been one of the top 100 names for girls in the United States.Popular Baby Names, Social Security Online.TourismAlthough colour change in leaves occurs wherever deciduous trees are found, coloured autumn foliage is most famously noted in two regions of the world: most of Canada and the United States; and Eastern Asia, including China, Korea, and Japan. It can also be very significant in Argentina, Australia, Chile and New Zealand, but not to the same degree.Eastern Canada and the New England region of the United States are famous for the brilliance of their autumnal foliage, and a seasonal tourist industry has grown up around the few weeks in autumn when the leaves are at their peak.Gallery Image:Autumn-slovakia.JPG|Autumn with a rainbow on the background in Bratislava, Slovakia. Image:autumn.westonbirt.750pix.jpg|Autumn leaves at Westonbirt Arboretum, Gloucestershire, England. Image:Autumn colours.jpg|Near Langmusi, Sichuan, China. Image:Ginkgo Riverside, Illinois.JPG|Ginkgos along Harlem Avenue in Riverside, Illinois, USA. Image:Autumn colors.jpg|Brilliant orange of sunlight autumn trees. Image:Autumn day.jpg|Rikugi-en, Tokyo, Japan. Image:Pumpkin & gourds.jpg|Pumpkins and squash in Needham, Massachusetts, USA. Image:Autumntreeseasternus.JPG|Autumn in the forests of New York, USA. Image:Treesbyriver.JPG|Autumn in the eastern United States. Image:Roll Call 1.jpg|Wheat harvest in Sezanne, France. Image:Water_droplets_on_an_autumn_leaf.jpg|Water droplets beading atop an autumn leaf in Ontario, Canada. Image:Fall in dryden.JPG|Fall colours in Dryden, Ontario, Canada. See alsoAxial tiltColor change in leavesEffect of sun angle on climateEquinoxIndian summerTemperateReferences==External links==  Online Etymology DictionaryHow To Photograph Autumn ColorCategory:Etymologies Category:Autumnar:خريف an:Agüerro ast:Seronda be:Восень bar:Hiachst bs:Jesen bg:Есен ca:Tardor cv:Кĕркунне cs:Podzim cy:Hydref (tymor) da:Efterår de:Herbst et:Sügis el:Φθινόπωρο myv:Сёксь es:Otoño eo:Aŭtuno eu:Udazken fa:پاییز fr:Automne fur:Sierade gl:Outono zh-classical:秋 ko:가을 hi:वर्षा ऋतु hr:Jesen id:Musim gugur is:Haust it:Autunno he:סתיו ka:შემოდგომა kv:Ар ht:Lotòn ku:Payîz la:Autumnus lv:Rudens lt:Ruduo hu:Ősz mk:Есен nl:Herfst nds-nl:Haarfst ja:秋 no:Høst nn:Haust nrm:Arryire uz:Kuz pl:Jesień pt:Outono ro:Toamnă qu:Puquy mit'a ru:Осень sco:Hairst st:Lehwetla simple:Autumn sk:Jeseň sl:Jesen sr:Јесен sh:Jesen fi:Syksy sv:Höst tt:Köz th:ฤดูใบไม้ร่วง vi:Mùa thu tg:Тирамоҳ tr:Sonbahar uk:Осінь vec:Autuno fiu-vro:Süküs wa:Waeyén-tins yi:הארבסט zh-yue:秋天 diq:Payız bat-smg:Rudou zh:秋季