 Parkinson's Law is the adage that "work expands so as to fill the time available for its completion." A more succinct phrasing also commonly used is "work expands to fill the time available." It was first articulated by Cyril Northcote Parkinson, appearing as the first sentence of a humorous essay published in The Economist in 1955, later reprinted together with other essays in the book Parkinson's Law: The Pursuit of Progress (London, John Murray, 1958). He derived the dictum from his extensive experience in the British Civil Service.The current form of the law is not that which Parkinson refers to by that name in the article. Rather, he assigns to the term a mathematical equation describing the rate at which bureaucracies expand over time. Much of the essay is dedicated to a summary of purportedly scientific observations supporting his law, such as the increase in the number of employees at the Colonial Office while Great Britain's overseas empire declined (indeed, he shows that the Colonial Office had its greatest number of staff at the point when it was folded into the Foreign Office because of a lack of colonies to administer). He explains this growth by two forces: (1) "An official wants to multiply subordinates, not rivals" and (2) "Officials make work for each other." He notes in particular that the total of those employed inside a bureaucracy rose by 5-7% per year "irrespective of any variation in the amount of work (if any) to be done."In time, however, the first-referenced meaning of the phrase has dominated, and sprouted several corollaries: for example, the derivative relating to computers: "Data expands to fill the space available for storage". "Parkinson's Law" could be generalized further still as: "The demand upon a resource tends to expand to match the supply of the resource." An extension is often added to this, stating that "the reverse is not true." This generalization has become very similar to the economic law of demand; that the lower the price of a service or commodity, the greater the quantity demanded.Parkinson also proposed a rule about the efficiency of administrative councils. He defined a coefficient of inefficiency with the number of members as the main determining variable.See alsoPeter PrincipleHofstadter's lawList of eponymous lawsParkinson's Law of TrivialityCoefficient of InefficiencyStudent syndromeSoftware bloatReferencesParkinson's Law, or The Pursuit of Progress, C. Northcote Parkinson, 1957. Parkinson's Law quoted in fullParkinson's Law, in The Economist (November 1955) - text with formulaExternal links&quot;How Do You Cure Injelitance?&quot;Category:Adages Category:Organizational studies and human resource managementde:Parkinsonsches Gesetz et:Parkinsoni seadus es:Ley de Parkinson fr:Loi de Parkinson is:Lögmál Parkinsons he:חוק פרקינסון lt:Parkinsono taisyklė hu:Parkinson-törvény nl:Wet van Parkinson ja:パーキンソンの法則 no:Parkinsons lov pl:Prawo Parkinsona pt:Lei de Parkinson ru:Закон Паркинсона fi:Parkinsonin laki sv:Parkinsons lag