 |birth_place = Santiniketan, West Bengal, India |residence = United States |nationality = India |field = Economics |work_institution =Harvard UniversityCambridge UniversityOxford UniversityLondon School of EconomicsDelhi School of EconomicsPrinceton University Jadavpur University |alma_mater = Trinity College, Cambridge (Ph.D.)(B.A.)Presidency College, Kolkata (B.A.) |known_for = Welfare EconomicsHuman development theory |prizes = Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences (1998)Bharat Ratna (1999) |religion = Atheist Amartya Kumar Sen CH (Hon) ( Ômorto Kumar Shen) (born 3 November 1933), is an Indian economist, philosopher, and a winner of the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences in 1998, "for his contributions to welfare economics" for his work on famine, human development theory, welfare economics, the underlying mechanisms of poverty, and political liberalism.From 1998 to 2004 he was Master of Trinity College at Cambridge University, becoming the first Asian academic to head an Oxbridge college. Amartya Sen is interested in the debate over globalization. He has given lectures to senior executives of the World Bank and is a former honorary president of Oxfam.Among his many contributions to development economics, Sen has produced work on gender inequality. He is currently the Lamont University Professor at Harvard University. Amartya Sen's books have been translated into more than thirty languages. He is a trustee of Economists for Peace and Security.BiographyEducation and careerSen was born in Santiniketan, West Bengal, the University town established by the poet Rabindranath Tagore, another Indian Nobel Prize winner. His ancestral home was in Wari, Dhaka in modern-day Bangladesh. Rabindranath Tagore is said to have given Amartya Sen his name ("Amartya" meaning "immortal").Sen began his high-school education at St Gregory's School in Dhaka in 1941, in modern-day Bangladesh. His family migrated to India following partition in 1947. Sen studied in India at the Visva-Bharati University school and Presidency College, Kolkata before moving to Trinity College, Cambridge, where he earned a First Class BA in 1956 and then a Ph.D. in 1959. He started his academic career at the age of 23 as Professor and Head of Department of Economics at Jadavpur University, Calcutta. Between 1960–1961, he taught at MIT as a visiting professor.http://nobelprize.org/nobel_prizes/economics/laureates/1998/sen-autobio.html.&lt;/ref&gt; He was also allowed four years to immerse himself in philosophical issues during his stay at Trinity College.He has taught economics at University of Calcutta, Jadavpur University, Delhi, Oxford (where he was first a Professor of Economics at Nuffield College and then the Drummond Professor of Political Economy and a Fellow of All Souls College), London School of Economics, Harvard and was Master of Trinity College, Cambridge, between 1998 and 2004.The Master of Trinity In January 2004 Sen returned to Harvard. He is also a contributor to the Eva Colorni Trust at the former London Guildhall University.In May 2007, he was appointed as chairman of Nalanda Mentor Group to steer the execution of Nalanda University Project, which seeks to revive the ancient seat of learning at Nalanda, Bihar, India into an international university.ResearchSen's papers in the late 1960s and early 1970s helped develop the theory of social choice, which first came to prominence in the work by the American economist Kenneth Arrow, who, while working at the RAND Corporation, famously proved that all voting rules, be they majority voting or two thirds-majority or status quo, must inevitably conflict with some basic democratic norm. Sen's contribution to the literature was to show under what conditions Arrow's Impossibility Theorem would indeed come to pass as well as to extend and enrich the theory of social choice, informed by his interests in history of economic thought and philosophy.In 1981, Sen published Poverty and Famines: An Essay on Entitlement and Deprivation (1981), a book in which he demonstrated that famine occurs not only from a lack of food, but from inequalities built into mechanisms for distributing food. Sen's interest in famine stemmed from personal experience. As a nine-year-old boy, he witnessed the Bengal famine of 1943, in which three million people perished. This staggering loss of life was unnecessary, Sen later concluded. He presents data that there was an adequate food supply in Bengal at the time, but particular groups of people including rural landless labourers and urban service providers like haircutters did not have the monetary means to acquire food as its price rose rapidly due to factors that include British military acquisition, panic buying, hoarding, and price gouging, all connected to the war in the region. In Poverty and Famines, Sen revealed that in many cases of famine, food supplies were not significantly reduced. In Bengal, for example, food production, while down on the previous year, was higher than in previous non-famine years. Thus, Sen points to a number of social and economic factors, such as declining wages, unemployment, rising food prices, and poor food-distribution systems. These issues led to starvation among certain groups in society. His capabilities approach focuses on positive freedom, a person's actual ability to be or do something, rather than on negative freedom approaches, which are common in economics and simply focuses on non-interference. In the Bengal famine, rural laborers' negative freedom to buy food was not affected. However, they still starved because they were not positively free to do anything, they did not have the functioning of nourishment, nor the capability to escape morbidity.In addition to his important work on the causes of famines, Sen's work in the field of development economics has had considerable influence in the formulation of the Human Development Report, published by the United Nations Development Programme. This annual publication that ranks countries on a variety of economic and social indicators owes much to the contributions by Sen among other social choice theorists in the area of economic measurement of poverty and inequality.Sen's revolutionary contribution to development economics and social indicators is the concept of 'capability' developed in his article "Equality of What." He argues that governments should be measured against the concrete capabilities of their citizens. This is because top-down development will always trump human rights as long as the definition of terms remains in doubt (is a 'right' something that must be provided or something that simply cannot be taken away?). For instance, in the United States citizens have a hypothetical "right" to vote. To Sen, this concept is fairly empty. In order for citizens to have a capacity to vote, they first must have "functionings." These "functionings" can range from the very broad, such as the availability of education, to the very specific, such as transportation to the polls. Only when such barriers are removed can the citizen truly be said to act out of personal choice. It is up to the individual society to make the list of minimum capabilities guaranteed by that society. For an example of the "capabilities approach" in practice, see Martha Nussbaum's Women and Human Development.He wrote a controversial article in the New York Review of Books entitled "More Than 100 Million Women Are Missing", analyzing the mortality impact of unequal rights between the genders in the developing world, particularly Asia. Other studies, such as one by Emily Oster, have argued that this is an overestimation, though Oster has recanted some of her conclusions.http://papers.nber.org/papers/w13971&lt;/ref&gt;Sen was seen as a ground-breaker among late twentieth-century economists for his insistence on discussing issues seen as marginal by most economists. He mounted one of the few major challenges to the economic model that posited self-interest as the prime motivating factor of human activity. While his line of thinking remains peripheral, there is no question that his work helped to re-prioritize a significant sector of economists and development workers, even the policies of the United Nations.Welfare economics seeks to evaluate economic policies in terms of their effects on the well-being of the community. Sen, who devoted his career to such issues, was called the "conscience of his profession." His influential monograph Collective Choice and Social Welfare (1970), which addressed problems related to individual rights (including formulation of the liberal paradox), justice and equity, majority rule, and the availability of information about individual conditions, inspired researchers to turn their attention to issues of basic welfare. Sen devised methods of measuring poverty that yielded useful information for improving economic conditions for the poor. For instance, his theoretical work on inequality provided an explanation for why there are fewer women than men in India and China despite the fact that in the West and in poor but medically unbiased countries, women have lower mortality rates at all ages, live longer, and make a slight majority of the population. Sen claimed that this skewed ratio results from the better health treatment and childhood opportunities afforded boys in those countries, as well as sex-specific abortion.Governments and international organizations handling food crises were influenced by Sen's work. His views encouraged policy makers to pay attention not only to alleviating immediate suffering but also to finding ways to replace the lost income of the poor, as, for example, through public-works projects, and to maintain stable prices for food. A vigorous defender of political freedom, Sen believed that famines do not occur in functioning democracies because their leaders must be more responsive to the demands of the citizens. In order for economic growth to be achieved, he argued, social reforms, such as improvements in education and public health, must precede economic reform.Although Sen is a self-proclaimed atheist, he claims that this can be associated with Hinduism as a political entity.Reported lecture http://www.facinghistory.org/Campus/reslib.nsf/Campus/reslib.nsf/themeandconceptpublic/872E6F4F8B5E996085256F8900771ED9?opendocument&lt;/ref&gt;&lt;ref&gt;Self-proclaimed http://www.chowk.com/show_article.cgi?aid=00005503&amp;channel=gulberg World Bank http://info.worldbank.org/etools/BSPAN/PresentationView.asp?EID=354&amp;PID=688 Press meeting http://www.rediff.com/business/1998/dec/28sen.htm&lt;/ref&gt;Sen is criticized as anti-market proponent by some economists, and as uncritical of globalization by others.http://books.guardian.co.uk/departments/politicsphilosophyandsociety/story/0,,465963,00.html&lt;/ref&gt; Sen cites Peter Bauer as a major influence on his thinking.Personal lifeSen's maternal grandfather Kshitimohan Sen was a renowned scholar of medieval Indian literature, an authority on the philosophy of Hinduism and a close associate of Rabindranath Tagore in Santiniketan. Sen's father was Ashutosh Sen and mother Amita Sen who were born at Manikganj, Dhaka. His father taught chemistry at Dhaka University (now in Bangladesh). Sen's first wife was Nabaneeta Dev Sen, a much loved Indian writer and scholar, with whom he had two children: Antara and Nandana. Their marriage broke up shortly after they moved to London in 1971. In 1973, he married his second wife, Eva Colorni. However, she died from stomach cancer quite suddenly in 1985. They had two children, Indrani and Kabir. His present wife is Emma Georgina Rothschild, an economic historian, and an expert on Adam Smith and Fellow of King's College, Cambridge.Sen brought up his youngest children on his own. Indrani is a journalist in New York, and Kabir teaches music at Shady Hill School in Cambridge, and has produced 3 of his own Hip-Hop Albums. His eldest daughter Antara Dev Sen is a notable Indian journalist who, along with her husband Pratik Kanjilal, publishes "The Little Magazine". Nandana Sen is a noted Bollywood actress.Sen usually spends winter holidays at his home in India, where he likes to go on long bike rides, and maintains a house in Cambridge, Massachusetts, where he and Emma spend the spring and long vacations. Asked how he relaxes, he replies: "I read a lot and like arguing with people."CriticismAmartya Sen has been criticized for his writings outside of economics, especially for his views on the history of Islam and Jihad, by Fouad Ajami in The Washington Post.Fouad Ajami: “Enemies, a Love Story.A Nobel laureate argues that civilizations are not clashing. The Washington Post. Sunday, April 2, 2006Historian Mark Tauger disagrees with Sen that food availability wasn't a problem in 1940s Bengal and argues that the famine was mainly the result of a natural disaster.Mark Tauger faculty information at West Virginia UniversityHonours and awardsHe received the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economics for his work in welfare economics in 1998.He received the Bharat Ratna, the highest civilian award in India 1999.In 1999 he received honorary citizenship of Bangladesh from Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina in recognition of his achievements in winning the Nobel Prize, and given that his family origins were in what has become the modern state of BangladeshHe received the 2000 Leontief Prize for his outstanding contribution to economic theory from the Global Development and Environment Institute.In 2002 he received the International Humanist Award from the International Humanist and Ethical Union.Eisenhower Medal, for Leadership and Service USA, 2000;Companion of Honour, UK, 2000.In 2003, he was conferred the Lifetime Achievement Award by the Indian Chamber of Commerce.Life Time Achievement award by Bangkok-based United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (UNESCAP)PublicationsIdentity and Violence: The Illusion of Destiny (Issues of Our Time), W. W. Norton, 2006The Argumentative Indian, 2005Rationality and Freedom, 2004Inequality Reexamined, 2004Development as Freedom, 1999Freedom, Rationality, and Social Choice: The Arrow Lectures and Other essays, 2000Reason Before Identity, 1999Choice of Techniques, 1960;Collective Choice and Social Welfare, 1970;On Economic Inequality, 1973;Poverty and Famines: an Essay on Entitlement and Deprivation, 1981;Hunger and Public Action, jointly edited with Jean Dreze, 1989;India: Economic Development and Social Opportunity, with Jean Dreze, 1995;Commodities and Capabilities, 1999Sen, Amartya, Collective Choice and Social Welfare, San Francisco, Holden-Day, 1970Sen, Amartya, On Economic Inequality, New York, Norton, 1973Sen, Amartya, Poverty and Famines : An Essay on Entitlements and Deprivation, Oxford, Clarendon Press, 1982Sen, Amartya, Choice, Welfare and Measurement, Oxford, Basil Blackwell, 1982Sen, Amartya, Food Economics and Entitlements, Helsinki, Wider Working Paper 1, 1986Sen, Amartya, On Ethics and Economics, Oxford, Basil Blackwell, 1987.Drèze, Jean and Sen, Amartya, Hunger and Public Action. Oxford: Clarendon Press. 1989.Sen, Amartya, More Than 100 Million Women Are Missing. New York Review of Books, 1990. (http://www.nybooks.com/articles/3408)Sen, Amartya, Inequality Reexamined, Oxford, Oxford University Press, 1992.Nussbaum, Martha, and Sen, Amartya. The Quality of Life. Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1993Sen, Amartya, Reason Before Identity (The Romanes Lecture for 1998), Oxford, Oxford University Press, 1999. ISBN 0-19-951389-9Sen, Amartya, Development as Freedom, Oxford, Oxford University Press, 1999 (Review by the Asia Times)Sen, Amartya, Rationality and Freedom, arvard, Harvard Belknap Press, 2002Sen, Amartya, The Argumentative Indian, London: Allen Lane, 2005. (Review by the Guardian, Review by the Washington Post)Sen, Amartya, Identity and Violence. The Illusion of Destiny. New York W&W Norton.Sen, Amartya, An Aspect of Indian Agriculture, Economic Weekly, Vol. 14, 1962Other Publications on Google ScholarReferencesExternal linksCurriculum VitaeAutobiographyEncyclopaedia Britannica's Biography - Amartya SenIDEAS/RePEcAmartya Sen's articles at the New York review of booksAmartya Sen: The Possibility of Social Choice (Nobel lecture)Indian Personalities - Amartya SenAmartya Sen: Democracy as a Universal ValueAmartya Sen: Population: Delusion and Reality (1994)Amartya Sen: Delusion and Reality (Asian Affairs 2002)Amartya Sen: The Standard of Living, PDF at Tanner LecturesAmartya Sen: Equality of what?, PDF at Tanner LecturesAmartya Sen: Global Justice: Beyond International EquityAmartya Sen: Satyajit Ray and the art of Universalism: Our Culture, Their CultureJabberwock: Amartya Sen on identity and choiceAmartya Sen: India through its CalendarsA Kerala experienceFrontline issue on Amartya SenS. P. J. Batterbury and J. L. Fernando: Amartya SenProfile in The GuardianVamsicharan Vakulabharanam, Sripad Motiram: Progressive, but Problematic An Appreciation and Critique of Amartya Sen (Ghadar; May 1 2000)Guido Traversa:The violence of the unique identity A Critical Review of Amartya Sen's 'Identity and Violence'Human Development and Capability AssociationInternational Association for Feminist Economics (IAFFE)Journal of Feminist EconomicsSmall Is BountifulReport on Sen's lecture on &quot;comparative justice&quot; at Harvard Law School in the Harvard Law RecordInterviewsInterview for Asia Society by Nermeen ShaikhReflections of an economist; Interview by David Barsamian of Alternative RadioInterview with Nabaneeta Dev Sen, former wife of Amartya SenAudioAmartya Sen discusses his book &quot;Identity and Violence: The Illusion of Destiny&quot;, on ThoughtcastInterview on IT ConversationsImmigration and Development, with Amartya Sen, on Open Source (radio show)What do we want from a Theory of Justice? Stanford Visiting Lecture Speech on iTunesVideoConversation with History (UC Berkeley 2005)    Category:Academics of the London School of Economics Category:Alumni of Presidency College, Kolkata Category:Alumni of Trinity College, Cambridge Category:Bengali Nobel laureates Category:Bengali people Category:Bharat Ratna recipients Category:Development economists Category:Development specialists Category:Fellows of All Souls College, Oxford Category:Fellows of Darwin College, Cambridge Category:Fellows of Nuffield College, Oxford Category:Fellows of the Econometric Society Category:Feminist economists Category:Harvard University faculty Category:Indian academics Category:Indian atheists Category:Indian economists Category:Indian Hindus Category:Indian Nobel laureates Category:Inductees of the Brazilian Order of Scientific Merit Category:International development Category:Masters of Trinity College, Cambridge Category:Members of the Order of the Companions of Honour Category:Nobel laureates in Economics Category:Political theorists Category:The Hunger Project Category:University of Calcutta alumni Category:Visva-Bharati University alumniar:أمارتيا سن bn:অমর্ত্য সেন bg:Амартя Сен ca:Amartya Sen cs:Amartya Sen da:Amartya Sen de:Amartya Sen es:Amartya Sen fr:Amartya Sen gd:Amartya Sen hi:अमर्त्य सेन id:Amartya Sen it:Amartya Sen he:אמרטיה סן kn:ಅಮರ್ತ್ಯ ಸೇನ್ ka:ამარტია სენი lv:Amartja Sens ml:അമര്‍ത്യ സെന്‍ mr:अमर्त्य सेन nl:Amartya Sen new:अमर्त्य सेन ja:アマルティア・セン no:Amartya Sen pl:Amartya Sen pt:Amartya Sen ro:Amartya Sen ru:Сен, Амартия sa:अमर्त्‍य कुमार सेन sl:Amartya Sen fi:Amartya Sen sv:Amartya Sen ta:அமார்த்ய சென் te:అమర్త్యా సేన్ th:อมรรตยะ เสน vi:Amartya Sen zh:阿马蒂亚·库马尔·森