Marc Léopold Benjamin Bloch (July 6, 1886 – June 16, 1944) was a French historian of medieval France in the period between the First and Second World Wars, and a founder of the Annales School. Bloch was shot by the Gestapo during the German occupation of France for his work in the French Resistance.BiographyBorn in Lyon to a Jewish family, the son of the professor of ancient history Gustave Bloch, Marc studied at the Ecole Normale Supérieure and Foundation Thiers in Paris, then at Berlin and Leipzig. He was in the infantry in World War I, rose to the rank of captain and was awarded the Légion d'honneur.After the war, he went to the university at Strasbourg, then in 1936 succeeded Henri Hauser as professor of economic history at the Sorbonne. A part of the University of Strasbourg is now named after him (see Marc Bloch University).In 1924 he published one of his most famous works Les rois thaumaturges: étude sur le caractère surnaturel attribué à la puissance royale particulièrement en France et en Angleterre (sometimes translated in English as The magic-working kings or The royal touch: sacred monarchy and scrofula in England and France) in which he collected, described and studied the documents pertaining to the ancient tradition that the kings of the Middle Ages were able to cure the disease of scrofula simply by touching people suffering from it. This tradition has its roots in the magical role of kings in ancient societies. This work by Bloch had a great impact not only on the social history of Middle Ages but also on cultural anthropology.In 1929, Bloch founded, with Lucien Febvre, the important journal Annales d'histoire économique et sociale (now called Annales. Histoire, Sciences Sociales) whose name came to be attached to an historical approach called the Annales School. Bloch's most important work centered on the study of feudalism.Bloch has had lasting influence in the field of historiography through his unfinished manuscript The Historian's Craft, which he was working on when he was killed by the Nazis. Bloch's book and What is History? by Edward Carr are often considered two of the most important historiographical works of the 20th century.In 1939 France declared war on Germany after its invasion and occupation of Poland. As France mobilized its troops, Marc Bloch left his position at the Sorbonne and took up his reserve status as a captain in the French Army at the age of 52. He was encouraged at the time by colleagues both in France and abroad to leave the country. He said it was his personal obligation to stand for the moral imperative."I was born in France, I have drunk the waters of her culture. I have made her past my own. I breathe freely only in her climate, and I have done my best, with others, to defend her interests." - from The Strange DefeatBloch's book, The Strange Defeat (published posthumously), assesses the rapid failure of the French army to repel the German Blitzkrieg in 1940 and his personal view of his French heritage and obligation to his Nation. Only fourteen days before the Liberation of Paris in 1945, Bloch was captured, tortured, and finally shot by the Gestapo for his participation in the French Resistance.Bloch's focus on the longue durée and his emphasis upon structures underlying events led to misguided accusations of a denial of human agency and a marginalization of political history. In The Strange Defeat he clearly states his view that individuals can change events and he castigates the French government's refusal to trust it's own officers in the field of battle, thus leading to the surrender of France to the Nazis.WorksFeudal Society, Tr. L.A. Manyon, (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1961). ISBN 0-226-05979-0French Rural History, tr. Janet Sondheimer (Berkely: University of California, 1966). Translation of Les caractères originaux de l'histoire rurale française, 1931. ISBN 0-520-01660-2Strange Defeat; a Statement of Evidence Written in 1940 (London: Oxford University Press, 1949)'' Original French text: ''Marc Bloch, historien fran&amp;ccedil;ais (1886-1944). L'&amp;Eacute;trange d&amp;eacute;faite. T&amp;eacute;moignage &amp;eacute;crit en 1940.&lt;!-- bot-generated title --&gt; at classiques.uqac.caThe Historian's Craft, Tr. Peter Putnam, (New York: Vintage Book, 1953)'' Original French text: ''http://classiques.uqac.ca/classiques/bloch_marc/apologie_histoire/apologie_histoire.html&lt;/ref&gt;ReferencesBloch, Marc. The royal touch: sacred monarchy and scrofula in England and FranceCarole Fink, Marc Bloch: A Life in History (Cambridge University Press, 1989) ISBN 0-521-40671-4H. Stuart Hughes, The Obstructed Path: French Social Thought in the Years of Desperation, 1930-1960 (1968)Joseph Lambie, ed., Architects and Craftsmen in History (1956)External linksCentre Marc Bloch Université Marc Bloch l'Association Marc Bloch   Category:Alumni of the École Normale Supérieure Category:Economic historians Category:Feudalism Category:French historians Category:French medievalists Category:French Resistance members Category:Historians of France Category:Historiographers Category:Jewish historians Category:Theories of history Category:University of Leipzig alumni Category:People executed by firearm Category:Deaths by firearm in France Category:French military personnel of World War I Category:Executed French people Category:People killed by the Third Reichast:Marc Bloch be-x-old:Марк Блок ca:Marc Bloch cs:Marc Bloch de:Marc Bloch et:Marc Bloch es:Marc Bloch fr:Marc Bloch it:Marc Bloch he:מרק בלוך la:Marcus Bloch lv:Marks Bloks lt:Marc Bloch nl:Marc Bloch ja:マルク・ブロック no:Marc Bloch pl:Marc Bloch pt:Marc Bloch ro:Marc Bloch ru:Блок, Марк sk:Marc Bloch sl:Marc Bloch fi:Marc Bloch sv:Marc Bloch tl:Marc Bloch tr:Marc Bloch uk:Блок Марк zh:馬克·布洛赫