  The Lena () in Siberia is the 10th longest river in the world and has the 9th largest watershed. Rising at the height of  at its source in the Baikal Mountains south of the Central Siberian Plateau,  west of Lake Baikal, the Lena flows northeast, being joined by the Kirenga River and the Vitim River. From Yakutsk it enters the lowlands, joined by the Olyokma River and flows north until joined by its right-hand affluent the Aldan River. The Verkhoyansk Range deflects it to the north-west; then, after receiving its most important left-hand tributary, the Vilyuy River, it makes its way nearly due north to the Laptev Sea, a division of the Arctic Ocean, emptying south-west of the New Siberian Islands by a delta  in area, and traversed by seven principal branches, the most important being Bykov, farthest east.The total length of the river is estimated at 4,400 km (2,800 m.). The area of the Lena river basin is calculated at . Gold is washed out of the sands of the Vitim and the Olyokma, and mammoth tusks have been dug out of the delta. The Lena has the unusual distinction of appearing to be the longest river in the world when viewed on a map using a Mercator projection, the most common method of displaying the spherical earth on a flat surface, due to that projection's tendency to exaggerate the size of areas near the poles (the Amazon and Nile both cross the equator.)HistoryThe majority of researchers believe that the name of the river Lena has been acquired from the original Even-Evenk name Elyu-Ene, which means "the Large River".Baron Eduard Von Toll, accompanied by Alexander von Bunge, carried out an expedition to the Lena delta area and the islands of New Siberia on behalf of the Russian Imperial Academy of Sciences in 1885. They explored the Lena delta with its multitude of arms that flow towards the Polar sea. Then In spring 1886 they investigated the New Siberian Islands and the Yana River and its tributaries. During one year and two days the expedition covered 25,000 km, of which 4,200 km were up rivers, carrying out geodesic surveys en route.Vladimir Ilyich Ulyanov is believed to have taken his alias, Lenin, from the river Lena. It has been suggested that this was done after the events leading to the Lena Goldfields Massacre of workers by the tsarist Russian Army in April 1912, although the adoption of his pseudonym predates this event. Another suggestion is that the adoption comes about as a result of a personal feud with Georgi Plekhanov, who called himself Volgin after the Volga river. The Lena is much stronger than and flows in the opposite direction as the Volga, thus it was be an obvious choice; Ulyanov, however, had no disagreement with Plekhanov when he first began to use the name.Lena DeltaAt the end of the Lena River there is a large delta that extends 100 km into the Laptev Sea and is about 400 km (250 miles) wide. The delta is frozen tundra for about 7 months of the year, but in May transforms the region into a lush wetland for the next few months. Part of the area is protected as the Lena Delta Wildlife Reserve.The Lena delta divides into a multitude of flat islands. The most important are (from West to East): Chychas Aryta, Petrushka, Sagastyr, Samakh Ary Diyete, Turkan Bel'keydere, Sasyllakh Ary, Kolkhoztakh Bel'keydere, Grigoriy Diyelyakh Bel'kee (Grigoriy Islands), Nerpa Uolun Aryta, Misha Bel'keydere, Atakhtay Bel'kedere, Arangastakh, Urdiuk Pastakh Bel'key, Agys Past' Aryta, Dallalakh Island, Otto Ary, Ullakhan Ary and Orto Ues Aryta.Turukannakh-Kumaga is a long and narrow island off the Lena Delta's western shore.One of the Lena delta islands, "Ostrov Amerika-Kuba-Aryta" or "Ostrov Kuba-Aryta" was named after the island of Cuba during Soviet times. It is located at the edge of its northern shoreline.&quot;Ostrov Amerika-Kuba-Aryta&quot;ReferencesAlexander von Bunge & Baron Eduard Von Toll, The Expedition to the New Siberian Islands and the Yana country, equipped by the Imperial Academy of Sciences. 1887.William Barr, The First Soviet Convoy to the Mouth of the Lena.NASA Earth Observatory pag(kevin loves balls)e on flooding on the Lena RiverInformation and a map of the Lena's watershedPermafrost in the Lena DeltaStudent Partners Project - scientific study involving students along the Lena RiverExternal Web PagesAlfred Wegner institute (AWI) Publications, Berichte zur Polar- und Meeresforschung (Reports on polar and marine research) - free, downloadable research reports on the biology, geology, oceanography, hydrology, paleontology, paleoclimatology, fauna, flora, soils, cryology, and so forth(corn is good) of the Lena Delta, Laptev Sea, and other parts of the Arctic Circle. Category:Rivers of Irkutsk Oblast Category:Rivers of the Sakha Republic Category:Laptev Seaals:Lena (Fluss) ast:Ríu Lena bn:লেনা নদী be:Рака Лена be-x-old:Лена br:Lena bg:Лена ca:Lena cv:Лена (юханшыв) cs:Lena de:Lena et:Leena el:Λένας ποταμός es:Río Lena eo:Leno (rivero) eu:Lena ibaia fr:Léna gl:Río Lena ko:레나 강 id:Sungai Lena it:Lena (fiume) he:לנה kk:Өлөне la:Lena lt:Lena hu:Léna (folyó) nl:Lena (rivier) ja:レナ川 no:Lena (elv i Russland) pl:Lena (rzeka) pt:Rio Lena (Rússia) ro:Lena ru:Лена (река) sah:Өлүөнэ sl:Lena sr:Лена (река) fi:Lena sv:Lena (flod) vi:Sông Lena tr:Lena Nehri uk:Лена (річка) zh:勒拿河