  map.]] An ocean current is continuous, directed movement of ocean water. Ocean currents are rivers of hot or cold water within the ocean. The currents are generated from the forces acting upon the water like the planet rotation, the wind, the temperature and salinity (hence isopycnal) differences and the gravitation of the moon. The depth contours, the shoreline and other currents influence the current's direction and strength. The meshing of all of these characteristics is what creates the great flow of the global conveyor belt which plays a dominant part in the climate of many of the Earth’s regions.Important currentsOcean currents can flow for thousands of kilometers. They are very important in determining the climates of the continents, especially those regions bordering on the ocean. Perhaps the most striking example is the Gulf Stream, which makes northwest Europe much more temperate than any other region at the same latitude. Another example is the Hawaiian Islands, where the climate is cooler (sub-tropical) than the tropical latitudes in which they are located because of the California Current. BackgroundSurface ocean currents are generally wind driven and develop their typical clockwise spirals in the northern hemisphere and counter-clockwise rotation in the southern hemisphere because of the imposed wind stresses. In wind driven currents, the Ekman spiral effect results in the currents flowing at an angle to the driving winds. The areas of surface ocean currents move somewhat with the seasons; this is most notable in equatorial currents.Deep ocean currents are driven by density and temperature gradients. Thermohaline circulation, also known as the ocean's conveyor belt, refers to the deep ocean density-driven ocean basin currents. These currents, which flow under the surface of the ocean and are thus hidden from immediate detection, are called submarine rivers. These are currently being researched by a fleet of underwater robots called Argo. Upwelling and downwelling areas in the oceans are areas where significant vertical movement of ocean water is observed.Surface currents make up about 10% of all the water in the ocean. Surface currents are generally restricted to the upper 400 meters of the ocean. The movement of deep water in the ocean basins is by density driven forces and gravity. The density difference is a function of different temperatures and salinity. Deep waters sink into the deep ocean basins at high latitudes where the temperatures are cold enough to cause the density to increase. The main causes of currents are: solar heating, winds and gravity.Ocean currents are measured in Sverdrup with the symbol Sv, where 1 Sv is equivalent to a volume flow rate of 106 cubic meters per second.In addition, temperature of the water plays a big role. The warmer the water is the less salt it has therefore it is less dense and this water will rise up towards the surface. Cooler water is much denser because of the high concentration of salt within the water and it sinks to the bottom. This cycle of warming and cooling is what creates the mixing and therefore the driving currents system. The cooler water, in addition to sinking, will make its way towards the equator to gather heat where then, in turn, it will make its way towards the poles to cool completing the cycle. This is the basic mechanism by which ocean currents are activated.Global Conveyor BeltThe North Atlantic is considered the beginning to the global conveyor belt. If the origination is knocked out of whack then chances are the rest of the belt may have grave issues with correcting the variation. Even though heat transport is such a large issue there are still other factors which should be able to account for the change and correct it or at least slow down the weakening throughout the conveyor belt. These factors include many of the same mechanisms that begin currents; temperature, the wind, and the density of the water. Each part plays a vast role in the main portions of the current system. These portions include formation, flow, and force of the current.Another section of the world’s oceans which is being researched and has had a recent major scientific discovery is the southern oceans. At a certain depth within this marine region all of the oceans are connected, have formed a ‘supergyre,’ and have an impact on each other.Significance to people and sea lifeKnowledge of surface ocean currents is essential in reducing costs of shipping, since they reduce fuel costs. In the sail-ship era knowledge was even more essential. A good example of this is the Agulhas current, which long prevented Portuguese sailors from reaching India. Even today, the round-the-world sailing competitors employ surface currents to their benefit.Ocean currents are also very important in the dispersal of many life forms. A dramatic example is the life-cycle of the eel.Ocean currents are important in the study of marine debris, and vice versa.One of those systems which would greatly be affected by a change in ocean currents would be coral reefs. Coral reefs are some of the most fascinating environments on the planet.Important currentsSee alsoGyreHydrothermal circulationThermohaline circulationMarine current powerWater massRogue wave (oceanography)External linksNOAA Ocean Surface Current Analyses - Realtime (OSCAR) Near-realtime Pacific Ocean Surface Currents derived from satellite altimeter and scatterometer data.RSMAS Ocean Surface CurrentsCoastal Ocean Current Monitoring ProgramOcean Motion and Surface CurrentsData Visualizer from OceanMotion.orgCategory:Physical oceanography Category:Ocean currents Category:Oceansbn:মহাসাগরীয় স্রোত zh-min-nan:Iûⁿ-lâu bs:Morska struja br:Kasenn bg:Океанско течение ca:Corrent oceànic cs:Mořský proud da:Havstrøm de:Meeresströmung et:Hoovus es:Corriente marina eo:Marfluo eu:Itsaslaster fr:Courant marin gl:Corrente oceánica ko:해류 hi:महासागरीय धारा hr:Morska struja it:Corrente oceanica he:זרם ימי sw:Mkondo wa bahari hu:Tengeráramlat nl:Zeestroom ja:海流 no:Havstrøm nn:Havstraum km:ខ្សែទឹកមហាសមុទ្រ pl:Prąd morski pt:Corrente oceânica ro:Curent marin ru:Морские течения sl:Oceanski tok fi:Merivirta sv:Havsström vi:Hải lưu uk:Морська течія zh:洋流ReferencesHansen, B., Osterhus, S., Quadfasel, D. and Turrell, W. Already the day after tomorrow? Science Washington 305 (2004): 953-954.Kerr, Richard A. A slowing cog in the north atlantic ocean's climate machine. Science 304 (2004): 371-72.Munday, Phillip L., et al. Climate change and the future of coral reef fishes. Oxford 9 (2008): 261.Rahmstorf, S. The current climate. Nature 421 (2003): 699.Roemmich, D. Super spin in the southern seas. Nature 449 (2007): 34-35.