   ) |foundation = Endicott, New York, U.S. (1889, incorporated 1911) |location_city =  Armonk, New York |location_country = USA |slogan = On Demand Business, in demand people |key_people = Samuel J. Palmisano, Chairman, President & CEO Mark Loughridge, SVP & CFODan Fortin, President (Canada)Jason Oppenheim, President (Asia Pacific)Nick Donofrio, EVP (Innovation & Technology)Mike Rhodin, President IOT Northeast EuropeDominique Cerutti, President IOT Southwest EuropeExecutive compensation at IBM |industry = Computer hardwareComputer softwareConsultingIT Services |products = See products listing |revenue =  $98.8 billion USD (+4% FY '07 to '08)| |net_income =  $10.4 billion USD (+11% FY '07 to '08)| (9.3% profit margin) |num_employees = 386,558 (2007) |subsid = ADSTARFileNetInformixIris AssociatesLotus SoftwareRational SoftwareSequent Computer SystemsTelelogicTivoli Systems, Inc. |homepage = www.ibm.com |footnotes =   International Business Machines Corporation, abbreviated IBM and nicknamed "Big Blue", is a multinational computer technology and consulting corporation headquartered in Armonk, New York, United States. The company is one of the few information technology companies with a continuous history dating back to the 19th century. IBM manufactures and sells computer hardware and software, and offers infrastructure services, hosting services, and consulting services in areas ranging from mainframe computers to nanotechnology.IBM has been known through most of its recent history as the world's largest computer company; with over 388,000 employees worldwide, IBM is the largest information technology employer in the world. Despite falling behind Hewlett-Packard in total revenue since 2006, it remains the most profitable. IBM holds more patents than any other U.S. based technology company. It has engineers and consultants in over 170 countries and IBM Research has eight laboratories worldwide. IBM employees have earned three Nobel Prizes, four Turing Awards, five National Medals of Technology, and five National Medals of Science. As a chip maker, IBM has been among the Worldwide Top 20 Semiconductor Sales Leaders in past years, and in 2007 IBM ranked second in the list of largest software companies in the world.History   The company which became IBM was founded in 1896 as the Tabulating Machine CompanyMartin Campbell-Kelly and William Aspray, "Computer a History of the Information Machine - Second Edition", Westview Press, page 37 2004 by Herman Hollerith, in Broome County, New York (Endicott, New York, where it still maintains very limited operations). It was incorporated as Computing Tabulating Recording Corporation (CTR) on June 16, 1911, and was listed on the New York Stock Exchange in 1916. IBM adopted its current name in 1924, when it became an international manufacturing company.In the 1950s, IBM became the dominant vendor in the emerging computer industry with the release of the IBM 701 and other models in the IBM 700/7000 series of mainframes. The company's dominance became even more pronounced in the 1960s and 1970s with the IBM System/360 and IBM System/370 mainframes, however antitrust actions by the United States Department of Justice, the rise of minicomputer companies like Digital Equipment Corporation and Data General, and the introduction of the microprocessor all contributed to dilution of IBM's position in the industry, eventually leading the company to diversify into other areas including personal computers, software, and services.In 1981 IBM introduced the IBM Personal Computer which is the original version and progenitor of the IBM PC compatible hardware platform. Descendants of the IBM PC compatibles make up the majority of microcomputers on the market today. IBM sold its PC division to the Chinese company Lenovo on May 1, 2005 for $655 million in cash and $600 million in Lenovo stock.On January 25, 2007, Ricoh announced purchase of IBM Printing Systems Division for $725 million and investment in 3-year joint venture to form a new Ricoh subsidiary, InfoPrint Solutions Company; Ricoh will own a 51% share, and IBM will own a 49% share in InfoPrint.Controversies The author Edwin Black has alleged that, during World War II, IBM CEO Thomas J. Watson used overseas subsidiaries to provide the Third Reich with unit record data processing machines, supplies and services that helped the Nazis to efficiently track down European Jews, with sizable profits for the company. IBM denies that they had control over these subsidiaries after the Nazis took power. A lawsuit against IBM based on these allegations was dismissed. In support of the Allied war effort in World War II, from 1943 to 1945 IBM produced approximately 346,500 M1 Carbine (Caliber 0.30 carbine) light rifles for the U.S. Military.Selected current projectsEclipse  Eclipse is a platform-independent, Java-based software framework. Eclipse was originally a proprietary product developed by IBM as a successor of the VisualAge family of tools. Eclipse has subsequently been released as free/open source software under the Eclipse Public License.developerWorks developerWorks is a website run by IBM for software developers and IT professionals. It contains a large number of how-to articles and tutorials, as well as software downloads and code samples, discussion forums, podcasts, blogs, wikis, and other resources for developers and technical professionals. Subjects range from open, industry-standard technologies like Java, Linux, SOA and web services, web development, Ajax, PHP, and XML to IBM's products (WebSphere, Rational, Lotus, Tivoli and DB2). In 2007 developerWorks was inducted into the Jolt Hall of Fame.alphaWorks alphaWorks is IBM's source for emerging software technologies. These technologies include:Flexible Internet Evaluation Report Architecture - A highly flexible architecture for the design, display, and reporting of Internet surveys.IBM History Flow Visualization Application - A tool for visualizing dynamic, evolving documents and the interactions of multiple collaborating authors.IBM Linux on POWER Performance Simulator - A tool that provides users of Linux on Power a set of performance models for IBM's POWER processors.Database File Archive And Restoration Management - An application for archiving and restoring hard disk files using file references stored in a database.Policy Management for Autonomic Computing - A policy-based autonomic management infrastructure that simplifies the automation of IT and business processes.FairUCE - A spam filter that verifies sender identity instead of filtering content.Unstructured Information Management Architecture (UIMA) SDK - A Java SDK that supports the implementation, composition, and deployment of applications working with unstructured information.Accessibility Browser - A web-browser specifically designed to assist people with visual impairments, to be released as open-source software. Also known as the "A-Browser," the technology will aim to eliminate the need for a mouse, relying instead completely on voice-controls, buttons and predefined shortcut keys.Semiconductor design and manufacturingVirtually all modern console gaming systems use microprocessors developed by IBM. The Xbox 360 contains the Xenon tri-core processor, which was designed and produced by IBM in less than 24 months. Sony's PlayStation 3 features the Cell BE microprocessor designed jointly by IBM, Toshiba, and Sony. Nintendo's seventh-generation console, Wii, features an IBM chip codenamed Broadway. The older Nintendo GameCube also utilizes the Gekko processor, designed by IBM.In May 2002, IBM and Butterfly.net, Inc. announced the Butterfly Grid, a commercial grid for the online video gaming market. In March 2006, IBM announced separate agreements with Hoplon Infotainment, Online Game Services Incorporated (OGSI), and RenderRocket to provide on-demand content management and blade server computing resources.Open Client OfferingIBM announced it will launch its new software, called "Open Client Offering" which is to run on Linux, Microsoft's Windows, and Apple's Mac OS X. The company states that its new product allows businesses to offer employees a choice of using the same software on Windows and its alternatives. This means that "Open Client Offering" is to cut costs of managing whether Linux or Apple relative to Windows. There will be no necessity for companies to pay Microsoft for its licenses for operations since the operations will no longer rely on software which is Windows-based. One of Microsoft's office alternatives is the Open Document Format software, whose development IBM supports. It is going to be used for several tasks like: word processing, presentations, along with collaboration with Lotus Notes, instant messaging and blog tools as well as an Internet Explorer competitor – the Firefox web browser. IBM plans to install Open Client on 5% of its desktop PCs.UC2: Unified Communications and CollaborationUC2 (Unified Communications and Collaboration) is an IBM and Cisco joint project based on Eclipse and OSGi. It will offer the numerous Eclipse application developers a unified platform for an easier work environment.The software based on UC2 platform will provide major enterprises with easy-to-use communication solutions, such as the Lotus based Sametime. In the future the Sametime users will benefit from such additional functions as click-to-call and voice mailing.Internal programsExtreme Blue is a company initiative that uses experienced IBM engineers, talented interns, and business managers to develop high-value technology. The project is designed to analyze emerging business needs and the technologies that can solve them. These projects mostly involve rapid-prototyping of high-profile software and hardware projects.In May 2007, IBM unveiled Project Big Green -- a re-direction of $1 billion per year across its businesses to increase energy efficiency.IBM Software GroupThis group is one of the major divisions of IBM. The various brands include:Information Management Software &mdash; database servers and tools, text analytics, content management, business process management and business intelligence.Lotus Software &mdash; Groupware, collaboration and business software. Acquired in 1995.Rational Software &mdash; Software development and application lifecycle management. Acquired in 2002.Tivoli Software &mdash; Systems management. Acquired in 1996.WebSphere &mdash; Integration and application infrastructure software.Environmental recordIBM has a long history of dealing with its environmental problems. It established a corporate policy on environmental protection in 1971, with the support of a comprehensive global environmental management system. According to IBM’s stats, its total hazardous waste decreased by 44% over the past five years, and has decreased by 94.6% since 1987. IBM's total hazardous waste calculation consists of waste from both non-manufacturing and manufacturing operations. Waste from manufacturing operations includes waste recycled in closed-loop systems where process chemicals are recovered and for subsequent reuse, rather than just disposing and using new chemical materials. Over the years, IBM has redesigned processes to eliminate almost all closed loop recycling and now uses more environmental-friendly materials in their place.http://www.ibm.com/ibm/responsibility/world/environmental/pollution.shtml ibm.com. "Environmental Protection" May 3, 2008IBM was recognized as one of the "Top 20 Best Workplaces for Commuters" by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) in 2005. This was to recognize the Fortune 500 companies that provided their employees with excellent commuter benefits that helped reduce traffic and air pollution.http://www.ibm.com/ibm/responsibility/world/environmental/index.shtml "Environmental Protection", May 3, 2008However, the birthplace of IBM, Endicott, suffered IBM's pollution for decades. IBM used liquid cleaning agents in its circuit board assembly operation for more than two decades, and six spills and leaks incidents were recorded, including one 1979 leak of 4,100&nbsp;gallons from an underground tank. These left behind volatile organic compounds in the town's soil and aquifer. Trace elements of volatile organic compounds have been identified in Endicott’s drinking water, but the levels are within regulatory limits. Also, from 1980, IBM has pumped out 78,000&nbsp;gallons of chemicals, including trichloroethane, Freon, benzene and perchloroethene to the air and allegedly caused several cancer cases among the villagers. IBM Endicott has been identified by the Department of Environmental Conservation as the major source of pollution, though traces of contaminants from a local dry cleaner and other polluters were also found. Despite the amount of pollutant, state health officials cannot say whether air or water pollution in Endicott has actually caused any health problems. Village officials say tests show that the water is safe to drink.http://query.nytimes.com/gst/fullpage.html?res=9C00E4DF1631F936A25750C0A9629C8B63&amp;fta=y "In an I.B.M. Village, Pollution Fears Taint Relations With Neighbors." March 15, 2004. New York Times Online. May 1, 2008Solar powerTokyo Ohka Kogyo Co., Ltd. (TOK) and IBM are collaborating to establish new, low-cost methods for bringing the next generation of solar energy products, called CIGS (Copper-Indium-Gallium-Selenide) solar cell modules, to market. Use of thin film technology, such as CIGS, has great promise in reducing the overall cost of solar cells and further enabling their widespread adoption.IBM is exploring four main areas of photovoltaic research: using current technologies to develop cheaper and more efficient silicon solar cells, developing new solution processed thin film photovoltaic devices, concentrator photovoltaics, and future generation photovoltaic architectures based upon nanostructures such as semiconductor quantum dots and nanowires.Dr. Supratik Guha is the leading scientist in IBM photovoltaic research.Corporate culture of IBMBig Blue is a nickname for IBM; several theories exist regarding its origin. One theory, substantiated by people who worked for IBM at the time, is that IBM field reps coined the term in the 1960s, referring to the color of the mainframes IBM installed in the 1960s and early 1970s. "All blue" was a term used to describe a loyal IBM customer, and business writers later picked up the term. Another theory suggests that Big Blue simply refers to the Company's logo. A third theory suggests that Big Blue refers to a former company dress code that required many IBM employees to wear only white shirts and many wore blue suits. In any event, IBM keyboards, typewriters, and some other manufactured devices, have played on the "Big Blue" concept, using the color for enter keys and carriage returns.SalesIBM has often been described as having a sales-centric or a sales-oriented business culture. Traditionally, many IBM executives and general managers are chosen from the sales force. The current CEO, Sam Palmisano, for example, joined the company as a salesman and, unusually for CEOs of major corporations, has no MBA or postgraduate qualification. Middle and top management are often enlisted to give direct support to salesmen when pitching sales to important customers.The uniformA dark (or gray) suit, white shirt, and a "sincere" tie&lt;/ref&gt; was the public uniform for IBM employees for most of the 20th century. During IBM's management transformation in the 1990s, CEO [[Lou Gerstner]] relaxed these codes, normalizing the dress and behavior of IBM employees to resemble their counterparts in other large technology companies.IBM company values and &quot;Jam&quot;In 2003, IBM embarked on an ambitious project to rewrite company values. Using its Jam technology, the company hosted Intranet-based online discussions on key business issues with 50,000 employees over 3 days. The discussions were analyzed by sophisticated text analysis software (eClassifier) to mine online comments for themes. As a result of the 2003 Jam, the company values were updated to reflect three modern business, marketplace and employee views: "Dedication to every client's success", "Innovation that matters - for our company and for the world", "Trust and personal responsibility in all relationships".In 2004, another Jam was conducted during which 52,000 employees exchanged best practices for 72 hours. They focused on finding actionable ideas to support implementation of the values previously identified. A new post-Jam Ratings event was developed to allow IBMers to select key ideas that support the values. The board of directors cited this Jam when awarding Palmisano a pay rise in the spring of 2005.&lt;/ref&gt;In July and September 2006, Palmisano launched another jam called https://www.globalinnovationjam.com/ InnovationJam. InnovationJam was the largest online brainstorming session ever with more than 150,000 participants from 104 countries. The participants were IBM employees, members of IBM employees' families, universities, partners, and customers. InnovationJam was divided in two sessions (one in July and one in September) for 72 hours each and generated more than 46,000 ideas. In November 2006, IBM declared that they will invest $US 100 million in the 10 best ideas from InnovationJam.IBM has recently launched another jam session called http://www.ibm.com/ijam2008 InnovationJam 2008. This jam began on October 5th at 6:00 p.m. US EDT and continues for 72 hours through October 8th 2008. Unlike past jams, Innovation Jam 2008 will involve wide participation from hundreds of IBM's clients, business partners and academics from around the world as well as thousands of IBM's own employees.Open sourceIBM has been influenced by the Open Source Initiative, and began supporting Linux in 1998. The company invests billions of dollars in services and software based on Linux through the IBM Linux Technology Center, which includes over 300 Linux kernel developers. IBM has also released code under different open-source licenses, such as the platform-independent software framework Eclipse (worth approximately US$40 million at the time of the donation) and the Java-based relational database management system (RDBMS) Apache Derby. IBM's open source involvement has not been trouble-free, however (see SCO v. IBM).Corporate affairsDiversity and workforce issuesIBM's efforts to promote workforce diversity and equal opportunity date back at least to World War I, when the company hired disabled veterans. IBM was the only technology company ranked in Working Mother magazine's Top 10 for 2004, and one of two technology companies in 2005 (the other company being Hewlett-Packard).On September 21, 1953, Thomas J. Watson, the CEO at the time, sent out a controversial letter to all IBM employees stating that IBM needed to hire the best people, regardless of their race, ethnic origin, or gender. In 1984, IBM added sexual preference. He stated that this would give IBM a competitive advantage because IBM would then be able to hire talented people its competitors would turn down.The company has traditionally resisted labor union organizing, although unions represent some IBM workers outside the United States.In the 1990s, two major pension program changes, including a conversion to a cash balance plan, resulted in an employee class action lawsuit alleging age discrimination. IBM employees won the lawsuit and arrived at a partial settlement, although appeals are still underway. IBM also settled a major overtime class-action lawsuit in 2006.Historically IBM has had a good reputation of long-term staff retention with few large scale layoffs. In more recent years there have been a number of broad sweeping cuts to the workforce as IBM attempts to adapt to changing market conditions and a declining profit base. After posting weaker than expected revenues in the first quarter of 2005, IBM eliminated 14,500 positions from its workforce, predominantly in Europe. In May 2005, IBM Ireland said to staff that the MD(Micro-electronics Division) facility was closing down by the end of 2005 and offered a settlement to staff. However, all staff that wished to stay with the Company were redeployed within IBM Ireland. The production moved to a company called Amkor in Singapore who purchased IBM's Microelectronics business in Singapore and is widely agreed that IBM promised this Company a full load capacity in return for the purchase of the facility. On June 8 2005, IBM Canada Ltd. eliminated approximately 700 positions. IBM projects these as part of a strategy to "rebalance" its portfolio of professional skills & businesses. IBM India and other IBM offices in China, the Philippines and Costa Rica have been witnessing a recruitment boom and steady growth in number of employees due to lower wages.On October 10 2005, IBM became the first major company in the world to formally commit to not using genetic information in its employment decisions. This came just a few months after IBM announced its support of the National Geographic Society's Genographic Project.Gay rightsIBM provides employees' same-sex partners with benefits and provides an anti-discrimination clause. The Human Rights Campaign has consistently rated IBM 100% on its index of gay-friendliness since 2003 (in 2002, the year it began compiling its report on major companies, IBM scored 86%).HRC Corporate Equality Index Score International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) profileLogos Image:Original IBM Logo.png|The logo that was used from 1924 to 1946. The logo is in a form intended to suggest a globe, girdled by the word "International"."IBM Archives: International Business Machines (1924-1946)." Accessed January 16, 2007. Image:Older IBM Logo.png|The logo that was used from 1947 to 1956. The familiar "globe" was replaced with the simple letters "IBM" in a typeface called "Beton Bold.""IBM Archives: IBM in transition (1947-1956)." Accessed January 16, 2007. Image:Old IBM Logo.png|The logo that was used from 1956 to 1972. The letters "IBM" took on a more solid, grounded and balanced appearance."IBM Archives: IBM continuity (1956-1972)." Accessed January 16, 2007. Image:IBM logo.svg|In 1972, the horizontal stripes now replaced the solid letters to suggest "speed and dynamism." This logo (in two versions, 8-bar and 13-bar), as well as the previous one, was designed by graphic designer Paul Rand."IBM Archives: IBM international recognition (1972- )." Accessed January 16, 2007. IBM Logo Historyhttp://worldsbestlogos.blogspot.com/2007/08/ibm-logo-history.html&lt;/ref&gt;  Logos designed in the 1970s tended to be sensitive to the technical limitations of photocopiers, which were then being widely deployed. A logo with large solid areas tended to be poorly copied by copiers in the 1970s, so companies preferred logos that avoided large solid areas. The 1972 IBM logos are an example of this tendency. With the advent of digital copiers in the mid-1980s this technical restriction had largely disappeared; at roughly the same time, the 13-bar logo was abandoned for almost the opposite reason – it was difficult to render accurately on the low-resolution digital printers (240 dots per inch) of the time.Board of directorsCurrent members of the board of directors of IBM are:Cathleen Black - President, Hearst MagazinesWilliam Brody - President, Johns Hopkins UniversityKen Chenault - Chairman and CEO, American Express CompanyJuergen Dormann - Chairman of the Board, ABB LtdMichael Eskew - Chairman and CEO, United Parcel Service, Inc.Shirley Ann Jackson - President, Rensselaer Polytechnic InstituteMinoru Makihara - Senior Corporate Advisor and former Chairman, Mitsubishi CorporationLucio Noto - Managing Partner, Midstream Partners LLCJames W. Owens - Chairman and CEO, Caterpillar Inc.Samuel J. Palmisano - Chairman, President and CEO, IBMJoan Spero - President, Doris Duke Charitable FoundationSidney Taurel - Chairman, Eli Lilly and CompanyLorenzo Zambrano - Chairman and CEO, Cemex SAB de CVSee alsoIBM AIX (operating system)IBM OS/2IBM PS/2IBM PC-DOSIBM PCIBM System/360IBM System/370IBM ESA/390IBM System z9, IBM System z10IBM System p, POWER6IBM System iIBM PC compatible (or IBM PC clone)List of Computer System ManufacturersList of IBM acquisitions and spinoffsList of IBM productsSCO v. IBMIBM RochesterIBM and the HolocaustIBM's Deep Thought (chess computer)Extreme BlueIEEEReferences and footnotes  Further reading Samme Chittum2004In an I.B.M. Village, Pollution Fears Taint Relations With NeighborsNew York TimesLouis V. Gerstner, Jr.2002Who Says Elephants can't Dance? HarperCollins.ISBN 0-00-715448-8Robert Slater1999Saving Big Blue: IBM's Lou GerstnerMcGraw HillEmerson W. Pugh1996Building IBM: Shaping an IndustryMassachusetts Institute of TechnologyRobert Heller1994The Fate of IBMLittle BrownPaul Carroll1993Big Blues: The Unmaking of IBMCrown PublishersRoy A Bauer et al1992The Silverlake Project: Transformation at IBM (AS/400)Oxford University PressThomas J Watson Jr.]]1990Father, Son & Co: My Life at IBM and BeyondISBN 0-553-29023-1Robert Sobel1988IBM vs. Japan: The Struggle for the FutureDavid Mercer1987url=http://futureobservatory.dyndns.org/2013.htm |title=IBM |publisher=Futureobservatory.dyndns.org |date= |accessdate=2008-09-22Kogan PageRichard Thomas DeLamarter1986Big Blue: IBM's Use and Abuse of PowerMacmillanBuck Rodgers1986The IBM WayHarper & RowRobert Sobel1981IBM: Colossus in TransitionISBN 0-8129-1000-1Robert Sobel1981Thomas Watson, Sr.: IBM and the Computer Revolution (biography of Thomas J. Watson)ISBN 1-893122-82-4External links IBM official websiteIBM Archives SiteIBM Organization Chart Wiki   IBM Category:Companies established in 1888 Category:Companies based in Westchester County, New York Category:Dow Jones Industrial Average Category:Electronics companies of the United States Category:Point of sale companies Category:Semiconductor companies Category:Computer storage companies Category:Computer companies of the United States Category:Computer hardware companies Category:Software companies of the United States Category:UML Partners Category:Monopolies Category:Multinational companies Category:Cloud computing vendorsaf:IBM ar:آي‌بي‌إم ast:IBM bn:আইবিএম bs:IBM bg:IBM ca:IBM cs:IBM da:IBM de:IBM el:IBM es:IBM eo:IBM fa:آی‌بی‌ام fr:International Business Machines Corporation ga:International Business Machines gl:IBM ko:IBM hr:IBM id:IBM is:IBM it:IBM he:יבמ ka:აი-ბი-ემი ku:IBM la:IBM lv:IBM lb:IBM lt:IBM hu:IBM mk:IBM ml:ഐ.ബി.എം. mr:आय.बी.एम. ms:IBM nl:IBM ja:IBM no:International Business Machines uz:IBM pl:IBM pt:IBM kaa:IBM ro:IBM ru:IBM simple:IBM sk:IBM sl:IBM sr:IBM sh:IBM fi:IBM sv:IBM ta:ஐபிஎம் te:ఐ బి ఎం th:ไอบีเอ็ม vi:IBM tr:Uluslararası İş Makineleri uk:IBM wuu:IBM yi:איי.בי.עם. zh-yue:IBM zh:IBM