  This figure is compatible with SRTM data, unlike an older but still frequently given figure of .|name=&quot;elev&quot;|group=&quot;note&quot; | Location= | Range=Andes, Cordillera Occidental | Prominence = 4,123 m  Ranked 17th | Coordinates =  | Easiest route=glacier/snow climb PD | Type=Stratovolcano | Listing = Ultra | Topographic map = IGM, CT-ÑIV-C1   | Age= Paleogene  | Last eruption=640 AD ± 500 years    The inactive stratovolcano Chimborazo () is Ecuador's highest summit. Its last eruption is thought to have occurred some time in the first millennium AD. Its summit is generally regarded as the spot on the surface farthest from the center of the Earth (since the Earth is not a perfect sphere), measuring 6,384.4&nbsp;km (3,968&nbsp;mi) from the Earth's core to the peak.GeographyLocationChimborazo is located in the Cordillera Occidental of the Andes of central Ecuador, 150&nbsp;km (93&nbsp;mi) south-southwest of the capital Quito. It's neighbored by 5,018&nbsp;m high Carihuairazo. Chimborazo's majestic summit rises 2,500&nbsp;m above the surrounding highlands (~3,500 to 4,000 m) with a ~20&nbsp;km wide base. Under clear conditions the summit of Chimborazo can be seen from the coastal city Guayaquil. The nearest cities are Riobamba (~30km to the southeast), Ambato (~30km to the northeast) and Guaranda (~25km to the southwest).Chimborazo is surrounded by the "Reserva de Produccion Faunistica Chimborazo" which forms a protected ecosystem to preserve the habitat for the Andes native camelids Vicuña, Llama and Alpaca.GlacierThe top of Chimborazo is completely covered by glaciers with some north-eastern glacier arms flowing down to 4,600 m. Its glacier is the source of water for the population of the Bolivar and Chimborazo provinces of Ecuador. Chimborazo glacier's ice mass has decreased over the past decades due to the combined influences of global warming, ash covers from recent volcanic activity|group="note" of Tungurahua and the El Niño phenomenon.  As on other glaciated Ecuadorian mountains, Chimborazo's glacial ice is mined by locals (the so called Hieleros from Spanish Hielo for Ice) to be sold in the markets of Guaranda and Riobamba. In earlier days the ice was transported down to coastal towns like Babahoyo or Vinces. (center right, with plume of ash).]]VolcanismChimborazo is a dominantly andesitic-dacitic stratovolcano. About 35,000&nbsp;years ago a collapse of Chimborazo produced a debris avalanche, the deposits of which underlie Riobamba. Chimborazo then erupted several times during the Holocene, the last time around 640 AD ± 500&nbsp;years. Today Chimborazo is considered inactive.ElevationWith an elevation of 6,268 m, Chimborazo is the highest mountain in Ecuador and the Andes north of Peru; it is higher than any more northerly summit in the Americas.Farthest point from Earth's centerThe summit of Mount Everest reaches a higher elevation above sea level, but the summit of Chimborazo is widely reported to be the farthest point from Earth's center,  despite a possible challenge from Huascarán.See the calculation at Talk:Huascarán. If the heights given by Wikipedia for Chimborazo and Huascaran are correct, it is a close tie. But Huascarán is often only credited with 6,746 m, in which case Chimborazo is a likely clear winner. Chimborazo is one degree south of the equator and the earth's diameter at the equator is greater than at the latitude of Everest, nearly 28° north, with sea level also elevated. Despite being 2,581&nbsp;m (8,568&nbsp;ft) lower in elevation above sea level, it is 6,384.4&nbsp;km (3,968&nbsp;mi) from the Earth's center, 2.1&nbsp;km farther than the summit of Everest.In this ranking order several other Andean peaks and also Africa's highest mountain, Kilimanjaro, precede Everest.HistoryEtymologySeveral theories regarding the origin of the name Chimborazo exist. After one theory it is a combination of the Cayapa Schingbu for Women and the Colorado/Quichua Razo for Ice/Snow resulting in Women of Ice. After another theory Chimbo is Jivaro for Throne of Master/God resulting in Icethrone of God. The locals also used to call the mountain Urcorazo, with the Quichua Urco for Mountain resulting in Mountain of Ice.  For the local indigenous mysticism the Chimborazo represents Taita (Father) whereas neighbouring Tungurahua is seen as Mama, Taita Chimborazo and Mama Tungurahua.First ascent by EuropeansUntil the beginning of the nineteenth century it was thought that Chimborazo was the highest mountain on Earth (measured from sea level), and such reputation led to many attempts on its summit during the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries. In 1802 during his expedition to South America, Baron Alexander von Humboldt, accompanied by Aimé Bonpland and the Ecuadorian Carlos Montúfar attempted to reach the summit. From his description of the mountain it seems that before he and his companions had to return suffering from altitude sickness they reached a point at 5,875 m, higher than previously attained by any European in recorded history.Incans reached much higher altitudes already, see Llullaillaco. In 1831 Jean Baptiste Boussingault and Colonel Hall reached a new "highest point", computed to be 6,006 m.   In 1880 Chimborazo's summit was first climbed by Edward Whymper and the brothers Louis and Jean-Antoine Carrel. As there were many critics who doubted that Whymper had reached the summit, later in the same year he climbed to the summit again choosing a different route (Pogyos) with the Ecuadorians David Beltrán and Francisco Campaña. SAETA Flight 232In August 1976 SAETA Flight 232 carrying 55 passengers and four crew members aboard a Vickers Viscount from Quito to Cuenca disappeared enroute. In October 2002, after 26&nbsp;years, the aircraft was found with the bodies of its 59 occupants at  elevation on Chimborazo by Ecuadorian climbers on the rarely used eastern route Integral. OtherChimborazo is featured on the Ecuadorian coat of arms, to represent the beauty and richness of the Ecuadorian Sierra (Highlands).Simón Bolívar's poem, "Mi delirio sobre el Chimborazo", was inspired by the mountain.Walter J. Turner's poem,"Romance" contains the couplet "Chimborazo, Cotopaxi/They had stolen my soul away!".MountaineeringAs Ecuador's highest mountain, Chimborazo is a very popular climb and can be climbed year round with the best seasons being December-January and July-August.RoutesThe easiest (Grade: PD) and most climbed routes are the Normal and the Whymper route. Both are western ridge routes starting at the Whymper hut and leading via the Ventemilla summit to the main (Whymper) summit. There are several other less used and more challenging routes on the other mountains faces and ridges leading to one of Chimborazo's summits: Main (Whymper, Ecuador), Politecnico (Central), N. Martinez (Eastern). The mountain is contained on the IGM (Instituto Geografico Militar) 1:50000 Map Chimborazo (CT-ÑIV-C1).RefugiosThere are two functioning Huts, the Carrel Hut (4,850 m) and the nearby Whymper Hut (5,000 m). The Carrel Hut can be reached by car from Riobamba, Ambato or Guaranda. On the north-west side there is the now defunct Zurita hut (4,900 m) which served as base for the Pogyos route.See alsoList of volcanoes in EcuadorNotes tags-- References tags-- External links Climbing information for ChimborazoCategory:Extreme points of Earth Category:Mountains of Ecuador Category:Stratovolcanoes Category:Volcanoes of Ecuadoram:ቺምቦራዞ be:Вулкан Чымбараса be-x-old:Чымбараса (вулькан) bs:Chimborazo bg:Чимборасо ca:Chimborazo cs:Chimborazo de:Chimborazo es:Chimborazo (volcán) eo:Ĉimborazo fr:Chimborazo gl:Monte Chimborazo hi:चिम्बरोजी hr:Chimborazo it:Chimborazo lt:Čimborasas hu:Chimborazo nl:Chimborazo (vulkaan) ja:チンボラソ no:Chimborazo nn:Chimborazo pl:Chimborazo pt:Chimborazo qu:Chimpurasu ru:Чимборасо simple:Mount Chimborazo sk:Chimborazo (sopka) sl:Chimborazo fi:Chimborazo (vuori) sv:Chimborazo th:ยอดเขาชิมโบราโซ tr:Chimborazo uk:Чімборасо zh:钦博拉索山