 Vaduz ( or ) is the capital of the principality of Liechtenstein and the seat of the national parliament. The town, located along the Rhine, has about 5,248 inhabitants, most of whom are Roman Catholic. Its cathedral is the seat of a Roman Catholic archbishop.While Vaduz is better known internationally, it is actually not the largest town in the principality: neighbouring Schaan has a greater population.HistoryVaduz is said to be mentioned in historic 12th century manuscripts as Farduzes. It is however commonly believed to have been founded in the 13th century by the Counts of Werdenberg. In 1322 a mention of the castle is made, which was sacked by the Swiss in 1499.LandmarksThe most prominent landmark of Vaduz is the Vaduz Castle, the home of the reigning prince of Liechtenstein and the Liechtenstein princely family. The castle is visible from almost any location in Vaduz, being perched atop a steep hill in the middle of the city.MuseumsThe National Art Gallery as well as the National Museum are located in Vaduz. The art gallery (Kunstmuseum Liechtenstein) is a museum of modern and contemporary art. The building is an architectural landmark built by the Swiss architects Morger, Degelo and Kerez. It was completed in November 2000 and forms a “black box” of tinted concrete and black basalt stone. The museum collection is also the national art collection of Liechtenstein.The Liechtenstein National Museum is showing a permanent exhibition on the cultural and natural history of Liechtenstein as well as special exhibitions. There are also the Postage Stamp Museum and a Ski Museum.TourismVaduz has a lively tourist industry, despite being one of the very few capital cities in the world without an airport or railway station. The closest railway station is Schaan-Vaduz located around 2km from the city centre in the town of Schaan. However, very few trains stop here except for a local service between Buchs SG in Switzerland and Feldkirch in Austria. There are extremely frequent bus connections between nearby mainline railway stations including Buchs SG, Sargans and Feldkirch. Mobile tourist offices are parked in central areas during the tourist seasons, with officers guiding the tourists. The city has a lively country market selling unique handmade souvenirs.Other informationThe Curta mechanical pocket calculator was manufactured here by the company Contina AG Mauren.Vaduz has also a local professional football (soccer) club, FC Vaduz which, as the other clubs in Liechtenstein, plays in the Swiss Football League. Starting in the 2008-2009 season, FC Vaduz will be the first ever Liechtenstein club to play in the Swiss Super League, Switzerland's top flight.Pictures Image:Kunstmuseum Liechtenstein (Walti).jpg|The city centre of Vaduz Image:Schlossvaduz.jpg|Vaduz Castle, one of the town's primary landmarks Image:Kunstmuseum Liechtenstein, Vaduz.jpg| The Kunstmuseum Liechtenstein in Vaduz Image:Haupttribüne mit Gebirge.JPG|Rheinpark Stadium Image:Sargans.jpg|Closest railway station, Sargans Image:Church vaduz.png|Cathedral of St. Florin ReferencesExternal linksOfficial website of the Commune of Vaduz   Category:Capitals in Europe Category:Municipalities of Liechtenstein Category:Settlements on the Rhineaf:Vaduz als:Vaduz am:ፋዱጽ frp:Vaduz bn:ফাডুৎস be-x-old:Вадуц bs:Vaduz bg:Вадуц ca:Vaduz cv:Вадуц cs:Vaduz cy:Vaduz da:Vaduz de:Vaduz et:Vaduz el:Βαντούζ es:Vaduz eo:Vaduzo eu:Vaduz fr:Vaduz gv:Vaduz gd:Vaduz gl:Vaduz ko:파두츠 hy:Վադուց hr:Vaduz io:Vaduz id:Vaduz is:Vaduz it:Vaduz he:ואדוץ ka:ვადუცი sw:Vaduz ht:Vadouz la:Dulcis vallis lb:Vaduz lt:Vaducas lij:Vadus ln:Vaduz hu:Vaduz mk:Вадуц na:Vaduz nl:Vaduz ja:ファドゥーツ no:Vaduz nn:Vaduz nov:Vaduz oc:Vaduz pms:Vaduz pl:Vaduz pt:Vaduz ro:Vaduz rm:Vaduz qu:Vaduz ru:Вадуц sq:Vaduz scn:Vaduz simple:Vaduz sk:Vaduz sl:Vaduz sr:Вадуц fi:Vaduz sv:Vaduz tl:Vaduz tr:Vaduz uk:Вадуц vec:Vaduz vo:Vaduz zh:瓦都茲