  | closest_city= Arad | territory = | result = Roman victory | combatant1 = Jewish Sicarii | combatant2 = Roman Empire | commander1 = Eleazar ben Yair | commander2 = Lucius Flavius Silva | strength1 = 960, including non-combattants | strength2 = Legion Tenth Fretensis 4,800Auxiliaries and slaves 4,000 - 10,000 | casualties1 = 953 dead, 7 captured | casualties2 = Unknown     | Type = Cultural | Criteria = iii, iv, vi | ID = 1040 | Region = Europe and North America | Year = 2001 Masada (Hebrew מצדה, pronounced Metzada, from מצודה, metzuda, "fortress") is the name for a site of ancient palaces and fortifications in the South District of Israel on top of an isolated rock plateau, or large mesa, on the eastern edge of the Judean Desert overlooking the Dead Sea. After the First Jewish-Roman War (also known as the Great Jewish Revolt) a siege of the fortress by troops of the Roman Empire led to the mass suicide of Jewish rebels, who preferred death to surrender.GeographyThe cliffs on the east edge of Masada are about 1,300 feet (400 m) high and the cliffs on the west are about 300 feet (90 m) high; the natural approaches to the cliff top are very difficult. The top of the plateau is flat and rhomboid-shaped, about 1,800 feet (550 m) by 900 feet (275 m). There was a casemate wall around the top of the plateau totaling 4,300 feet (1.3 km) long and 12 feet (3.7 m) thick, with many towers, and the fortress included storehouses, barracks, an armory, the palace, and cisterns that were refilled by rainwater. Three narrow, winding paths led from below up to fortified gates.HistoryAccording to Josephus, a first-century Jewish Roman historian, Herod the Great fortified Masada between 37 and 31 BCE as a refuge for himself in the event of a revolt. In 66 CE, at the beginning of the First Jewish-Roman War against the Roman Empire, a group of Jewish extremists called the Sicarii overcame the Roman garrison of Masada. After the destruction of the Temple, the rebels and their families fled Jerusalem and settled on the mountain top, using it as a base for raiding Roman settlements.JVL MasadaThe works of Josephus are the sole record of events that took place during the siege. According to modern interpretations of Josephus, the Sicarii were an extremist splinter group of the Zealots who were equally antagonistic to both Romans and other Jewish groups.Nachman Ben-Yehuda, The Masada Myth: Scholar presents evidence that the heroes of the Jewish Great Revolt were not heroes at all., The Bible and Interpretation The Zealots (according to Josephus), in contrast to the Sicarii, carried the main burden of the rebellion, which opposed Roman rule of Judea (as the Roman province of Iudaea, its Latinized name).The Sicarii on Masada were commanded by Elazar ben Ya'ir (who may have been the same person as Eleazar ben Simon), and in 70 CE they were joined by additional Sicarii and their families that were expelled from Jerusalem by the Jewish population with whom the Sicarii were in conflict shortly before the destruction of Jerusalem and the Second Temple.Archaeology indicates that they modified some of the structures they found there; this includes a building which was modified to function as a synagogue facing Jerusalem, (in fact, the building may originally have been one), although it did not contain a mikvah or the benches found in other early synagogues.Kloppenborg, John. Voluntary Associations in the Graeco-Roman World. Routledge, 1996, p. 101. Remains of two mikvahs were found elsewhere on Masada.wall ]] In 72, the Roman governor of Iudaea Lucius Flavius Silva marched against Masada with the Roman legion [[Legio X Fretensis|X Fretensis]] and laid siege to the fortress. After failed attempts to breach the wall, they built a circumvallation wall and then a rampart against the western face of the plateau, using thousands of tons of stones and beaten earth.Josephus does not record any attempts by the Sicarii to counterattack the besiegers during this process, a significant difference from his accounts of other sieges against Jewish fortresses. He did record a raid on a nearby Jewish settlement called Ein-Gedi during the siege, where the Sicarii killed 700 of its inhabitants.Some historians also believe that Romans may have used Jewish slaves to build the rampart. According to Dan Gill,A natural spur at Masada by Dan Gill. Nature 364, pp.569-570 (12 August 1993); DOI 10.1038/364569a0 geological observations in the early 1990s revealed that the  high assault ramp consisted mostly of a natural spur of bedrock that required a ramp only  high built atop it in order to reach the Masada defenses. This discovery would diminish both the scope of the construction and of the conflict between the Sicarii and Romans, relative to the previous perspective in which the ramp was an epic feat of construction.The rampart was complete in the spring of 73, after approximately two to three months of siege, allowing the Romans to finally breach the wall of the fortress with a battering ram on April 16. When they entered the fortress, however, the Romans discovered that its 936 inhabitants had set all the buildings but the food storerooms ablaze and committed mass suicide rather than face certain capture, defeat, slavery or execution by their enemies.The account of the siege of Masada was related to Josephus by two women who survived the suicide by hiding inside a cistern along with five children, and repeated Elazar ben Yair's exhortations to his followers, prior to the mass suicide, verbatim to the Romans. Because Judaism strongly discourages suicide, Josephus reported that the defenders had drawn lots and killed each other in turn, down to the last man, who would be the only one to actually take his own life. Josephus says that Eleazar ordered his men to destroy everything except the foodstuffs to show that the defenders retained the ability to live, and so chose the time of their death over slavery but archaeological excavations have shown that storerooms which contained their provisions were burnt. Josephus also reported that the Romans found arms sufficient for ten thousand men as well as iron, brass and lead which casts further doubt on the account. Historians also point out the parallels between the incidents at Jotapata and Masada such as Eleazar's second speech corresponding to the speech which Josephus himself delivered at Jotapata under similar circumstances and the transference of the lottery motif from the former to the latter.The Credibility of Josephus Comparing Josephus' account with archaeological evidence.Masada todayThe site of Masada was identified in 1842 and extensively excavated between 1963 and 1965 by an expedition led by Israeli archeologist Yigael Yadin. While a hike up the Snake Path on the eastern side of the mountain (access via the Dead Sea road) is considered part of the "Masada experience," a cable car operates at the site for those who wish to avoid the physical exertion. Due to the remoteness from human habitation and its arid environment, the site has remained largely untouched by humans or nature during the past two millennia. The Roman ramp still stands on the western side and can be climbed on foot. Many of the ancient buildings have been restored from their remains, as have the wall-paintings of Herod's two main palaces, and the Roman-style bathhouses that he built. The synagogue, storehouses, and houses of the Jewish rebels have also been identified and restored. The meter-high circumvallation wall that the Romans built around Masada can be seen, together with eleven barracks for the Roman soldiers just outside this wall. Water cisterns two-thirds of the way up the cliff drain the nearby wadis by an elaborate system of channels, which explains how the rebels managed to have enough water for such a long time.Inside the synagogue, an ostracon bearing the inscription me'aser cohen (tithe for the priest) was found, as were fragments of two scrolls; parts of Deuteronomy 33-34 and parts of Ezekiel 35-38 (including the vision of the &quot;dry bones&quot;), found hidden in pits dug under the floor of a small room built inside the synagogue. In other loci fragments were found of the books of Genesis, Leviticus, Psalms, and Sirach, as well as of the Songs of the Sabbath Sacrifice.In the area in front of the northern palace, eleven small ostraca were recovered, each bearing a single name. One reads "ben Yair" and could be short for Eleazar ben Yair, the commander of the fortress. It has been suggested that the other ten names are those of the men chosen by lot to kill the others and then themselves, as recounted by Josephus.Archaeologist Yigael Yadin's excavations uncovered the skeletal remains of 28 people at Masada. The remains of a male 20-22 years of age, a female 17-18 and a child approximately 12 years old, were found in the palace. The remains of 25 people were found in a cave at the base of the cliff. Carbon dating of textiles found with the remains in the cave indicate they are contemporaneous with the period of the Revolt. All the remains were reburied at Masada with full military honours on July 7, 1969.The remnants of a Byzantine church dating from the 5th and 6th centuries, have also been excavated on the top of Masada.The Masada story was the inspiration for the "Masada plan" devised by the British during the Mandate era. The plan was to man defensive positions on Mount Carmel with Palmach fighters, in order to stop Erwin Rommel's expected drive through the region in 1942. The plan was abandoned following Rommel's defeat at El Alamein. The Chief of Staff of the Israel Defence Forces (IDF), Moshe Dayan, initiated the practice of holding the swearing-in ceremony of soldiers who have completed their Tironut (IDF basic training) on top of Masada. The ceremony ends with the declaration: "Masada shall not fall again." The soldiers climb the Snake Path at night and are sworn in with torches lighting the background. Dan Bitan, Mesada the Symbol and the Legend, the Dead Sea and the Judean Desert, 1960, Yad Ben ZviMasada was declared a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 2001. An audio-visual light show is presented nightly on the western side of the mountain (access by car from the Arad road or by foot, down the mountain via the Roman ramp path).In 2007, a new museum opened at the site in which archeological findings are displayed in a theatrical setting. A 2,000-year-old seed discovered during archaeological excavations in the early 1960s has been successfully germinated to become a date plant, the oldest known such germination. ReferencesBibliographyM. Avi-Yonah et al., Israel Exploration Journal 7, 1957, 1–160 (excavation report Masada)Y. Yadin, Masada, London 1966Y. Yadin, Israel Exploration Journal 15, 1965 (excavation report Masada)N. Ben-Yehuda, Masada Myth: Collective Memory and Mythmaking In Israel, University of Wisconsin Press (December 8, 1995)N. Ben-Yehuda, Sacrificing Truth: Archaeology and the Myth of Masada'', Humanity Books (June 2002)See alsoJewish-Roman WarsKnanayaSiege of JerusalemGamlaZealotryMasada (miniseries) — a 1981 TV miniseries based on the Masada siege eventsNumantia, where the Arevaci preferred suicide over surrendering to the Romans, has a similar meaning in Spanish culture.Masada2000Media Image:Masada.ogg‎|Video showing panoramic views of Masada Image:Masada Panorama2.jpg|panoramic view of Masada taken at sunrise  External links &quot;Yadin photographs &amp; footage of the excavations&quot;Masada by Google Maps[http://www.gutenberg.org/browse/authors/j#a1050 Online works of Josephus]MASADA - FACT AND FICTION. A 23 minute video documentary, produced by the multimedia unit of [[Hebrew University]. It is freely available online][http://www.bibleinterp.com/articles/masadamyth1.htm Nachman Ben-Yehooda on the construction of The Myth of Masada][http://www.bibleinterp.com/articles/ben-yehuda_masada.htm Sacrificing Truth: Archaeology and The Myth of Masada][http://www.jewishencyclopedia.com/view.jsp?artid=238&amp;letter=M Masada in the Jewish Encyclopedia]The credibility of JosephusLIVIUS article on Jewish WarsWorld Heritage Sites pageIsrael National Parks Authority pageMasada entry in historical sourcebook by Mahlon H. SmithMasada photosPanoramic photos of MetzadahExtensive photo gallery of Masada ruins Category:30s BC establishments Category:Ancient Jewish Roman history Category:Jewish-Roman wars Category:Archaeological sites in Israel Category:Cliffs Category:Mass suicides Category:Mountain monuments and memorials Category:National parks of Israel Category:World Heritage Sites in Israel Category:Hill forts Category:Sieges involving Romear:مسادا ca:Masada cs:Masada cy:Masada da:Masada de:Masada es:Masada eo:Masada fr:Massada gl:Masada ko:마사다 it:Masada he:מצדה lv:Masada lb:Masada lt:Masada nl:Massada ja:マサダ要塞 no:Masada pl:Masada pt:Massada ro:Masada ru:Массада sr:Масада fi:Masada sv:Masada vi:Masada zh:马萨达