 | location = Pasadena, California | spouse = Claire Nolan  Chris Pontius (born Christopher Andrew Pontius on July 16, 1974 in Pasadena, California) is an American entertainer and daredevil.Pontius is a member of Jackass and, along with Steve-O, co-host of Wildboyz.Career Pontius grew up skating on his family's ranch in San Luis Obispo, California. He first appeared in the second issue of Big Brother Magazine riding a skateboard down a handrail. Issue #8 featured an interview with Pontius and saw his first public appearance in the nude, when he was still under the legal age of 18. In Issue #9, he wrote an article titled "18 Ways To Be An Asshole".Pontius worked for Big Brother until 1999, when he was fired for not showing up for a tour without notice. After parting ways with Big Brother, he drifted from job to job, including stints at Jamba Juice and working as a temp for Charles Schwab. After several months, he returned to the magazine with an article titled, "Life After Big Brother", telling of his misadventures in the 9 to 5 world. He joined Big Brother editor Jeff Tremaine and contributor Johnny Knoxville with the Jackass crew in 2000. On Jackass, Pontius often went by the monikers "Bunny the Lifeguard", "Party Boy", "Chief Roberts", "Roller Bobby", "Pontius the Barbarian", "Mr. America", "Garbage Man", "Dutch Girl", "Satan", and "Bear Johnson (The Alaskan Porn Sensation)". After Jackass ended, he starred in Wildboyz on MTV and later MTV2 with Jackass alumnus Steve-O.Public nudityPontius' trademark style consists of either a male pouch thong and a bow tie, or a headband and belt (being otherwise nude), which he attributes to a favorite pastime as a kid where he and his brother would play "naked natives," scaring houseguests wearing nothing but a belt. Pontius has used the naked native motif to run alongside animals in Wildboyz. He also appears nude in numerous Jackass stunts, including "Playgirl Pontius", in which he poses in various positions for photographs as an audition for Playgirl magazine completely naked. One of the said photos also hangs in director Jeff Tremaine's office, directly behind his desk. It was put up by Pontius himself, during the filming of the first Jackass film in 2002.Personal lifePontius has been married to Claire Nolan since October 29, 2004. He is a vegetarian.IGN: Chris Pontius is a Wild Boy&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;ReferencesExternal linksOfficial Myspace of Chris Pontius Category:1974 births Category:Living people Category:American television actors Category:People from Pasadena, California Category:People from San Luis Obispo, California Category:American vegetariansde:Chris Pontius es:Chris Pontius fr:Chris Pontius it:Chris Pontius nl:Chris Pontius pl:Chris Pontius pt:Chris Pontius fi:Chris Pontius sv:Chris Pontius