 | Img = E518b70a6c008204910674954da8fad5.jpg‎ | Img_capt = Hikaru Utada in 2006 with her stuffed bear, Kuma Chan | Alias = Utada, Hikki, Cubic U | Born =  | Died = | Origin = New York City, New York, U.S. | Genre = Pop, Ethereal Wave, Britpop, dance, J-Pop, R&amp;B, hip hop, rock, ambient, instrumental, experimental | Occupation = Singer, Songwriter, Producer, Composer, Arranger | Instrument = Vocals, guitar, piano | Years_active = 1993–present | Label = EMIUniversalIsland | Associated_acts = Keiko Fuji Ne-yo | URL = EMI Musicwww.utada.comU3 Music (Personal Blog)  , also known by her fans as , is a singer-songwriter, arranger and record producer in Japan. She is well-known internationally for her two theme song contributions to Square Enix's Kingdom Hearts video game series:"Simple and Clean" and "Sanctuary", IGN: Square, Disney and Japanese Pop Star Utada Hikaru Collaborate on Kingdom Hearts&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Utada's debut album First Love became the Japan's biggest selling album of all time with over 7.65 million copies sold in Japan alone to date. 宇多田ヒカル-ORICON STYLE ミュージックトレンディドラマとともに訪れた90年代のミリオンセールス時代 ニュース-ORICON STYLE&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; The release of her later works only help her reign as one of Japan's top artist, with 3 of her Japanese studio albums being ranked in Top 10 best-selling albums ever in Japan (#1, #4, #8)List of million-selling CD albums in Japan. She has had 12 #1 hits to date on the Oricon Singles chart, with two notable record achievements for a female solo or group artist: 5 of them being million-sellers and 4 placing in the Top 100 All-Time Best-selling Singles. Hamasaki ties Nakamori for singles record - Tokyograph&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;歴代シングルランキング&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;.In addition, Utada has won the Nihon Golden Disk "Song of the Year" award for 14 of her singles since 2000 and has won the Golden Disc "Pop/Rock Album of the Year" award for all her 4 Japanese studio albums. In 2003, Utada was ranked the #24 Japanese pop artist in its survey of "Top 100 Japanese Pop Artists of All Time" by HMV, and #10 in HMV's "Top 30 Best Japanese Singers of All Time" in 2006.In 2007, her single "Flavor of Life" reached #2 in worldwide digital download yearly single chart with over 7.2 million downloadsIFPI:'Flavor of Life’ contender for best-selling digital single, and she sold a total of 12 million digital ringtones and songs in that same year, making her the first artist ever to have that many digital sales in a year's time.Biography'''Early life and musical career beginnings'''Hikaru Utada was born in New York City to Japanese parents with roots in the Japanese music industry. Her father, Teruzane Utada, was a record producer while her mother, Junko Utada, was an enka singer, performing under the stage name "Keiko Fuji."&nbsp; Junko Utada’s mother, and Hikaru’s grandmother, was a blind shamisen player (ごぜ, or goze). Utada made her first professional recording at the age of twelve. She did her recordings with her mother, releasing songs under a band named “U3” (also known as Utada 3) until 1996 when she started her first solo project, "I'll be Stronger."&nbsp; The "Cookin' With Moses Vocal" from this project was called the "Cookin' With Gas Vocal" on the promotional release. "I’ll Be Stronger" was the first song Utada wrote. It was released under the artist name "Cubic U," a mathematical reference to her being the third Utada 'power,' which was Hikaru’s pseudonym before becoming a superstar in Japan. The song failed to release in the United States, and in 1997, she started her next project, though at first she was hesitant."Watching my parents, doing crazy things to continue working on music, um, I thought I never want to be musician, It's crazy, and it's unstable... Just, it looks like a very hectic life, and I didn't really understand the passion for music they have back then. But I ended up following my parents' footstep and carry on the family business and I am a musician now as well and, now I understand the driving passion behind it, and that's ok," she said in an interview. According to an interview posted on YouTubeCubic U released her debut single "Close to You," which was a cover of The Carpenters' song. She then released her debut album Precious, but it failed to be released in the United States due to restructuring issues at her then record label Capitol Records. In an MTV interview (on MTV's You Hear It First, October 2004), Utada explained: "Someone in Japan heard it&mdash;at a Japanese record company&mdash;and he said, 'Oh, can't you write in Japanese?&nbsp; You speak Japanese… And I said ok, why not? I'll try. Then I gave it a shot, and the Japanese album just really blew up in Japan."http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5v5SpMksbzI She released Precious in Japan on January 28, 1998, and then later re-released it on March 31, 1999 to much better success. It has sold 702,060 copies to date in Japan, making it a significant hit for an all-English album in that market.'''Breakthrough success: 1998–2003'''Utada moved to Tokyo in late 1998 and attended Seisen International School, and later the American School in Japan, while continuing to record on a new contract with Toshiba-EMI. Leading up to the release of her first album First Love, Utada released two successful million-selling single: "Automatic / Time Will Tell" and "Movin' on without you." "Automatic / Time Will Tell" eventually became the 2nd most successful single by a female solo artist behind Namie Amuro's "Can You Celebrate?" as well as one of the most successful debut single to be release in the country.歴代シングルランキング&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; The success of Utada's singles eventually lead the album First Love to sell over 7 million units in Japan alone (with an additional 3 million overseas, bringing it to a sum of at least 10 million units), becoming the highest selling album in Japanese History.宇多田ヒカル-ORICON STYLE ミュージック&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; Due to popular demand, Utada later release the song "First Love" as a single as well. By the end of the year, Utada was able to be rank #5 on a Japanese radio station "Tokio Hot 100 Airplay's" Top 100 Artists of the 20th Century by the station and its listeners.It would be two years after the release of First Love that Utada would release her sophomore album Distance. All the singles that was release to promote the album was able to achieve success with "Addicted To You, the first single from the album, breaking the one-million mark in its first week and reaching #1 on the Oricon Singles Chart for two consecutive weeks (a personal first) and eventually netting sales of 1,784,000 copies, remaining Utada's most successful single of all time. The second single from the album, "Wait &amp; See ~Risk~", was able to mirror the success of "Addicted To You," selling over one-million units as well. "Wait & See ~Risk~" would later be rank at #6 on Oricon's list of 10 Best-Selling Singles from January 1 1999 to April 24 2006JaME - The 1st database and information website about Japanese music - www.jame-world.com&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;. Her two last singles "For You / Time Limit" and "Can You Keep a Secret?" were both able to claim the #1 spot, bringing her #1 hits up to five with "Can You Keep a Secret?" netting sales of yet another million units, becoming #10 on Oricon's Top Ten List of Best-Selling Singles from January 1, 1999 to April 24, 2006.JaME - The 1st database and information website about Japanese music - www.jame-world.com&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;As it had been two years since First Love was release, the album Distance was highly anticipated among her fans, having the largest first-week sales for any album in music history, with over 3 million units sold. At the end of 2001, it became the most sold album for any J-music artist worldwide or in the residential industry, with 4.469 million copies sold in Japan alone. After Distance, Utada released a single that was dedicated to the female victim of a murder case in Ikeda, Osaka entitled "Final Distance."Leading up to her third album, Utada released "Traveling," "Hikari," and "Sakura Drops / Letters." With the exception of "Final Distance" (#2 peak), they were all able to claim the #1 spot. Before the release of Utada's third album, Deep River, the artist eventually underwent surgery after being diagnosed with an ovarian tumor, causing Utada to put her promotional activities on hold.After recovering and finally releasing Deep River, Utada eventually went back to promoting. While there were no TV appearances, she promoted her album in magazine and radio interviews. The Oricon count of the album was another amazing first-week sales debut for Utada, with 2.35 million sold for the week post its release day. Oricon reports that sales eventually surpassed 3.60 million, making her the only singer or group in Japanese music history to have three consecutive albums surpass the 3x Million (12x Platinum) sold mark, by RIAJ standards. It was also her third consecutive time to hold the #1 position on Oricon's Yearly Albums chartWhat's This Year / 2002 / Entertainment / Music&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; and became the eighth best selling album of all time in Japan.In 2003, Utada's promotional and personal life schedules got more active due to her marriage and an imposing agreement with Island Records in America to release a proper full-English debut album. New Japanese-language singles would therefore come few and far between, but Utada did release "Colors" on January 29, 2003, which was her only single release for 2003. This song was distinctive because it featured heavy ethereal and experimental tones for the first time in Utada's discography, something that would display itself fruitfully in all the Ultra Blue and Heart Station eras' singles. It became her longest charting single ever with a 45 week trajectory on the Oricon Singles chart, selling 881,000 copies, and was #3 on the Yearly Singles chart.International Forays: 2004–2005Her first singles compilation album Utada Hikaru Single Collection Vol.1 was released on March 31, 2004. It became the best-selling album of 2004 in Japan, making her the only solo or group artist to reach #1 four times on the yearly charts. It was also the first compilation album to reach #1 in six years on the yearly charts, and the first compilation album to reach #1 in twenty six years by a female artist. Its success was a particularly amazing achievement, since it received very little promotion and contained no new material or photos. Moreover, it charted longer on the Oricon Albums chart longer than any other Utada release to date, over 2 years. It was also her first to debut at #1 on the United World Charts, the first time in music history for any Asian artist. The album would go on to sell over 2.575 million units in Japan, making it the 34th best-selling album ever in the country. A month later, on April 21, she released her only Japanese single in 2004, "Dareka no Negai ga Kanau Koro," which topped the singles chart for two consecutive weeks and sold 365,000 units by the year's end and was also the main theme song for Casshern, her now ex-husband's directorial debut.In mid-2004, Utada moved back to New York, and began work on a new recording contract with Island Def Jam Music Group. On October 5, 2004, she released her North American English-language debut album, Exodus, under the name "Utada," which was her new American-given artist title at the Universal ConventionMUSIC JAPAN+ -artist database&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;. It was released nearly a month earlier, on September 9 in Japan, with a special booklet and housed in a cardboard slipcase. In an MTV interview, Utada said: "I don't think it's the music that I'm concerned about. It's obviously that I look really different and there really aren't any completely Asian people are popular singers in the U.S. right now." Exodus became Utada's fourth consecutive release to debut at #1 and boast 500,000+ first-week sales. It had a chart run of twenty weeks on the Oricon and saw her reach #1 on the World United Charts a second time, eventually selling 1.35 million copies. In spite of enlisting the help of Timbaland to produce and co-write some songs, her American debut as an Island Records artist was met with indifference by the American market, though the fact that there was virtually no promotion on her record label's part, selling 50,000 units. "Easy Breezy" was released as the lead single in early August 2004, peaking at #9 Billboard Hot Dance/Club Airplay chart, followed up by "Devil Inside" a month and two weeks later. And Utada became the cover of the interview magazine June, 2005 issue. "Exodus '04" was released at the end of June 2005 and featured remixes from The Scumfrog, Richard Vission, JJ Flores and Peter Bailey. In the UK, Mercury added another 2 remixes for "You make me want to be a man" in the original album Exodus 04, titled "You Make Me Want To Be A Man &amp; Avant Mix" and "You Make Me Want To Be A Man Jack Mix." By the end of the year Utada was voted "#1 Favorite Artist of 2004" by Oricon's annual readers poll.The fourth single from her English Exodus album, "You Make Me Want to Be a Man," was released in October 2005. "Devil Inside" became a club smash in the U.S. and topped the Billboard Hot Dance/Club Airplay charts. Both the Exodus album and "You Make Me Want to Be a Man" single were released in the U.K., with different artwork from the USA and Japanese versions. In October 2005, "You Make Me Want to Be a Man" became another #1 on the Billboard Dance chart.Return to Japan: 2005–2008A year after the international release and promotion of Exodus, Utada moved back to Tokyo and returned to the Japanese music scene. Leading up the release of her fourth album Ultra Blue, Utada released a string of successful hit singles: "Colors" (#1), "Dareka no Negai ga Kanau Koro" (#1), "Be My Last", (#1), "Passion" (#4), and "Keep Tryin'" (#2). The digital single "This Is Love" was also release to promote the album, netting in at least 1,000,000 digital downloads and ranking as the ninth most downloaded song of 2006 at iTunes Japan.ITmedia News：iTunes年間ランキング、トップは宇多田とモーツァルト&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Ultra Blue sold 500,317 copies in the first week, lower than that of the previous album, although it still easily topped the Oricon Daily, Weekly, and Monthly charts, and even became Utada's third #1 album to debut on the United World Charts. In addition, Ultra Blue also gave the artist her sixth consecutive chart-topping album to sell in excess of 500,000 units for a first-week sales. On July 13, Toshiba EMI published a report stating that Ultra Blue had sold over one million copies worldwide and four million digital ringtones alreadymaking it one of EMI’s 10th best-selling album of the past year.hypebot: Chairman Nicoli Addresses WMG Merger And EMI's Future&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;  After fifty-three weeks on the Oricon chart, Ultra Blue sold 910,998 units in Japan alone and was certified triple-platinum by the RIAJ, making it the highest-selling original studio album by a Japanese female artist in 2006. However, it became her first original album (excluding her first album Precious, released under the name Cubic U) to sell fewer than one million units domestically.Ultra Blue later became available on the iTunes Japan online music store, charting at #4 on the 2006 yearly download rankings.ITmedia News：iTunes年間ランキング、トップは宇多田とモーツァルト&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; Two weeks after the release of Ultra Blue, Utada began a nationwide tour titled "Utada United 2006" on June 30, 2006 which ended on September 12, 2006. This was Utada's second concert tour after her debut tour "Bohemian Summer 2000" and one performance at Budokan Dome in 2004. Aside from her Japanese work, the tour's set list featured three tracks from her 2004 English-language album, Exodus. On September 20, 2006, Exodus was re-released in Japan in addition to "Utada Hikaru Single Collection" Volume 4 in the same month.The singles that were released prior to Utada's fifth studio album, Heart Station, were able to reach the Top Five position on the chart, including the #1 hit "Flavor of Life", which would later become the best selling digital single in Japan with over 7,500,000 copies download. Around the same time, Utada confirmed in her blog on September 25, 2007 that she had visited New York to with producers and executives at Island/Def Jam about recording a new English album.. Later in the year a digital track by American R&amp;B artist Ne-Yo, titled "Do You" from his latest 2007 album, Because of You featured Utada and was released in Japan on November 21. Utada.comUtada.jpThe year 2007 ended with "Flavor of Life" single becoming the best seller of 2007 and with Utada being voted "#1 Favorite Artist of 2007" by Oricon's annual readers poll, three years after she was last voted #1 on the poll. She also sold a cumulative total of 12 million digital ringtones and songs in 2007, making her the first Japanese artist ever to have this many digital sales in one year.Utada's fifth studio album, Heart Station, was released on March 19, 2008, becoming her fifth consecutive #1 album【オリコン】宇多田ヒカル、08年No.1スタートで6作連続1位！ ニュース-ORICON STYLE&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; although it had collected the lowest first week sales for Utada's career, with 480,081 copies sold. Despite this, the album went on to sell 982,874 copies (still charting), with certification of one million units shipped by the RIAJ and was currently the highest selling album by a female solo artist in 2008 until Namie Amuro surpassed this with Best Fiction. It is also the fourth highest selling album of 2008 as of August 3.Hikaru Utada's nameHikaru's name variations have been a source of some minor confusion in the past. Her legal name at birth is . For her original U.S. debut album, she used the name Cubic U. However, she gained very little fame at this stage in her career. For her Japanese recordings, she has used the name , with her given name in katakana. Unlike most Japanese artists, she became well known in the English-speaking world under this surname-first name ordering, since her name has been romanized only in that order for the Japanese domestic market. In Japan, it was known that her nickname growing up in the U.S. was "Hikki." However, due to her immense popularity in Japan, she became better known under this nickname in Japan than in the United States. After her successes in Japan, she re-entered the U.S. market simply as Utada (sometimes Iwashita). On a few rare occasions, she has been credited in full on U.S. domestic albums as either "Hikaru Utada" or "Utada Hikaru." Her legal name in Japan was  due to her marriage to Kiriya Kazuaki (whose real name is Kazuhiro Iwashita). However, she does not use this name for most public purposes. Her legal name in the United States has not been clear, especially since the announcement of her divorce on March 2, 2007.Personal lifeOn September 7, 2002 Utada married Kazuaki Kiriya, a photographer and film director who was fifteen years her senior. Kiriya had directed several of her music videos, including "Final Distance," "Traveling," "Hikari," "Sakura Drops," "Deep River," "Dareka no Negai ga Kanau Koro," "Be My Last," "Passion," and "Keep Tryin." Also, "Dareka no Negai ga Kanau Koro" is the theme song of Kiriya's directorial debut, Casshern.On March 2 2007, Hikaru Utada and her husband Kazuaki Kiriya were officially divorced, thus ending their four and a half year marriage. They announced the divorce on Utada's blog the following day. Both stated that many factors contributed to the divorce, including personal changes, different viewpoints on the future of their marriage, and, more importantly, lack of communication due to the nature of their jobs. Kiriya hoped that Utada's fans would continue to support her and that the divorce would not affect her reputation and sales. He stated that they could not "emotionally depend on each other" and wished for everybody to support Utada.On March 92008, roughly a year after her divorce, for an interview for SSTV V.I.P., Utada was asked another question regarding it. Utada stated that they were headed towards a direction in which she felt that she needed to be validated by her husband's opinion. She came to realize the only type of assurance she needed was herself and as a result of the divorce, she gained confidence. Also, Utada stated that she wishes to have children, giving her a brighter outlook on the future. 2008 Utada Space Shower TV V.I.P. interview (Part II)Discography  Japanese studio albums1999: First Love2001: Distance2002: Deep River2006: Ultra Blue2008: Heart StationJapanese compilation albums2004: Utada Hikaru Single Collection Vol.1English studio albums1998: Precious - as Cubic U2004: Exodus2008/2009: ''Untitled English Studio Album ''Notable awards and recordsYearsAwards1999200020012002200320042005200620072008References and notes tags-- See alsoList of number-one dance hits (United States)List of artists who reached number one on the U.S. Dance chartCapitol RecordsExternal linksHikki's Website — official EMI Music Japan site Hikki's Website — official EMI Music Taiwan site Utada.com — official U.S. Island Records/Universal Music Group site Utada.jp — official Japanese Island Records/Universal Music Group site U3Music Inc — official Hikaru Utada/Utada Message/Blog site /Hikaru Utada information — Upcoming information about Hikaru Utada /Blog: English translation - translation of her blog entries  Category:1983 births Category:Living people Category:People from New York City Category:Columbia University alumni Category:Video game musicians Category:Japanese Americans Category:Japanese female singers Category:Japanese singer-songwriters Category:Japanese pop singers Category:American dance musicians Category:Dance musicians Category:Japanese American musicians Category:American expatriates in Japan Category:Asian Americans in musicar:أوتادا هيكارو da:Utada Hikaru de:Hikaru Utada es:Hikaru Utada fr:Hikaru Utada ko:우타다 히카루 id:Hikaru Utada it:Hikaru Utada ms:Hikaru Utada nl:Hikaru Utada ja:宇多田ヒカル no:Hikaru Utada pl:Hikaru Utada pt:Hikaru Utada ru:Утада, Хикару simple:Hikaru Utada fi:Hikaru Utada sv:Hikaru Utada tl:Hikaru Utada th:ฮิคารุ อุทาดะ vi:Utada Hikaru zh-yue:宇多田光 zh:宇多田光