 , typeset as ASIAN KUNG-FU GENERATION, is a Japanese rock band signed by Ki/oon Records, a subsidiary of Sony Music Entertainment Japan. For nearly its entire career, the band has consisted of vocalist Masafumi Gotō, guitarist Kensuke Kita, bassist Takahiro Yamada, and drummer Kiyoshi Ijichi. The band's musical style has been heavily influenced by seminal indie, punk, and alternative rock acts. As a result, their songs maintain a balance of various elements of the genres, most typically ranging from fast-paced and hard-edged to rhythmic and emotional. Despite the indie nature of their music, the band has enjoyed widespread commercial success and their songs have come to be been used for memorable opening themes of highly popular anime series.HistoryFormation and indie releases (1996–2002)Asian Kung-Fu Generation was first formed when Masafumi Gotō, Kensuke Kita, and Takahiro Yamada met in a musical club of Kanto Gakuin University in 1996. The three started their very first band, with Kiyoshi Ijichi joining them later on after parting with another college band, and began performing at the university as well as throughout the local Yokohama area. After playing in several small venues and collaborating with rock musician Caramelman, AKG released their first indie EP in 2000. The six-track EP contained original lyrics written and sung almost entirely in English. The four spent the remainder of the year playing in multiple clubs and hosting various independent events.The year after, the band tried to get their first Japanese single,  off I'm Standing Here, onto indie radio stations. The song was eventually picked up by a popular radio DJ and put into heavy rotation due to the demand of listeners. AKG then released their second indie EP, this time expressing songs written with Japanese lyrics. At this time, the band had began drawing an increasingly large number of audiences to their shows held in various clubs in Shibuya, Shimokitazawa, Kichijōji, and Tokyo.ASIAN KUNG-FU GENERATION: Biography. Sony Music Online Japan. Retrieved on 2008-10-9.''Hōkai Amplifier'' and ''Kimi Tsunagi Five M'' (2002–2004)On November 25, 2002, after contributing to the Under Flowers Records compilation album, Whatct You Gonna Do?, the band officially released their first major-label mini-album , enlisting internet radio host and artist Yusuke Nakamura to design and create their single and album covers.Under Flower Label - Release discography. Under-flower Co., Ltd. Retrieved on 2008-10-9. The immensely critically-acclaimed EP topped the Highline Records' weekly chart for two consecutive weeks and peaked at number thirty-five on the Oricon indies sales chart. As a result of its success, ''Hōkai Amplifier was re-released by Ki/oon Records on April 23, 2003. A month later, AKG held their first headline show at Shimokitazawa Club Shelter. That same summer, the band performed at both Fuji Rock Festival 03's "ROOKIE A GO GO" and Summer Sonic '03 in Tokyo and Osaka. On August 6, the band released their first major-label single, , with their second single, , following shortly after. Their first full-length album,  was released on November 19th.ASIAN KUNG-FU GENERATION: Biography. Sony Music Online Japan. Retrieved on 2008-10-9. The LP sold over 250,000 copies and landed in the number five spot on the Oricon charts in its first week. As their fame grew, fans began calling them simply , shortened version of their full name.''Sol-fa'' (2004–2005)When 2004 came around, AKG recieved the award for Best New Artist while their video for "Kimi to iu Hana" won the award for Best Music Video. From January 19 to February 25, AKG held their first headline tour, Five Nano Seconds, which was comprised of thirteen shows. On July 1st, the band held the first of what would be many ASIAN KUNG-FU GENERATION presents Nano-Mugen Festival at Nippon Budokan. That following summer, the band went on to play in more than ten summer festivals, including Meet The World Beat, Rock In Japan Fes 04, and Fuji Rock Festival 04.Over the course of the year, the band would release four more singles: , ,  and , before releasing their second full-length album,  on October 20th.ASIAN KUNG-FU GENERATION: Biography. Sony Music Online Japan. Retrieved on 2008-10-9. The album would go on to sell more than 600,000 copies and debut at number one on the Oricon charts for two consecutive weeks. Following its release, "Rewrite" found fame both domestically as well as on an international level when it was chosen as the fourth opening theme for the anime series ''Fullmetal Alchemist.ASIAN KUNG-FU GENERATION: Rewrite. Sony Music Online Japan. Retrieved on 2008-10-9. Around the same time, their song "Haruka Kanata," enjoyed similar success after being used for the second opening of the anime series Naruto.ASIAN KUNG-FU GENERATION: Hōkai Amplifier. Sony Music Online Japan. Retrieved on 2008-10-9. (Japanese) Asian Kung-Fu Generation spent the next two months on a national tour consisting of twelve shows called Tour SUI CUP 2004 -No! Member, November, which included a prestegious headliner at Nippon Budokan arena, and then released the year-end video DVD, Eizō Sakuhinshū Volume 1 on November 26.ASIAN KUNG-FU GENERATION: Biography. Sony Music Online Japan. Retrieved on 2008-10-9.''Fanclub'' (2005–2006)Due in part to their growing recognition, Asian Kung-Fu Generation would dedicate a significant amount of time the next couple of years going on extensive national tours. Between March 14 and June 26 of 2005, AKG went on an extensive sold-out Re:Re Tour, performing at forty-eight concerts in thirty-eight cities throughout Japan. At the same time, the band released their first live DVD, Eizō Sakuhinshū Volume 2: Live at Budokan +, which topped the Oricon DVD charts for an entire month. On July 9, AKG held their second Nano-Mugen Festival at Yokohama Arena, where they performed with seven other Japanese and UK bands. To advertise the event, they released a preceding compilation album that retained one song from each band attending the festival. Over the next summer, AKG attended a host of festivals, including Summer Sonic 05, Rising Sun Rock Fes. 2005, and Rock in Japan Fes. 05. The band closed the year by releasing the single, , followed up by a brief tour entitled, Tour SUI CUP 2005 - Winter Dragon in December.The band began 2006 with the release of the single, "World Apart." The single was unique in that it featured a song in which Kensuke Kita stood as lead singer. It was also AKG's first to achieve number-one single status. On March 15, AKG released their third full-length album,  which went on to stay in the Oricon top five for nearly two months. The following month, the band went on a national tour entitled, Coung 4 My 8 Beat. Tickets for all thirty-eight shows quickly sold out. AKG's third annual Nano-Mugen Fes. was held at Yokohama Arena. For two days, Asian Kung-Fu Generation and eleven other bands, including six Japanese bands, three American bands and two English bands, performed. Like the previous year, a compilation album was released in July to advertise the Nano-Mugen Festival. After three years of attending the Fuji Rock Fes, the band had the opportunity to perform on its primary Green Stage for the first time at Fuji Rock Festival 06.ASIAN KUNG-FU GENERATION: Biography. Sony Music Online Japan. Retrieved on 2008-10-9.''Feedback File'' (2006–2007)To commemorate their ten-year anniversary, Asian Kung-Fu Generation released their first compilation album, Feedback File on October 25. However, rather than featuring hit singles, the nostalgic album was compiled of B-sides, live performances, and old demos from their early indie days. Despite retaining little new material, the compilation managed to debut at number two on the Oricon charts. AKG then went on a two-month arena tour entitled, Tou Sup Cup 2006-2007: The Start of a New Season. Well over 100,000 fans attended this tour, which featured guest performances by band from Japan and the United States.ASIAN KUNG-FU GENERATION: Biography. Sony Music Online Japan. Retrieved on 2008-10-9. In the midst of the tour, AKG was commissioned by the director of the then-upcoming anime film, Tekkon Kinkreet, to compose a song that would be featured in the movie. They created a song called,  and released it as a year-end single prior to the film's debut.[http://www.sonymusic.co.jp/Music/Arch/KS/ASIANKUNG-FU/KSCL-1068/index.html ASIAN KUNG-FU GENERATION: "Aru Machi no Gunjō" (或る街の群青)]. Sony Music Online Japan. Retrieved on 2008-10-11. (Japanese) As a sign of their increasing popularity, the band came to be parodied in a volume of the popular Hellsing manga by members of the Vatican named, "The Vatickung."Withdrawal and ''World World World'' (2007–Present)On March 21, the band released another live DVD, Eizō Sakuhinshū Volume 3: Tour Sui Cup 2006-2007 The Start of a New Season, containing footage of their previous tour. Although they took part in various domestic summer festivals, AKG gradually became more and more withdrawn over the course of 2007 before ending appearences almost entirely. It was also the year that the band witheld their their annual Nano-Mugen Festival.ASIAN KUNG-FU GENERATION: Biography. Sony Music Online Japan. Retrieved on 2008-10-9. However, they did close the year with the November release of their next album's second single, "After Dark." The song debuted in the top ten on the Oricon charts and was used as the seventh opening for the anime series Bleach.ASIAN KUNG-FU GENERATION: &quot;After Dark&quot; (アフターダーク). Sony Music Online Japan. Retrieved on 2008-10-11. (Japanese)While they performed at the Japanese New Year countdown, the band primarily remained withdrawn and spent the next few months working on their fifth studio album. On February 2008, AKG released the final single, , before quickly following it up with their album, World World World. Despite the lack of media appearences and the significant time-span between their releases, the album topped the debuted Oricon charts on its first week before eventually relapsing the weeks after.Member profilesBirthdate: December 12 1976Place of Birth: Fujieda City, Shizuoka PrefectureStatus: MarriedLead vocalist and rhythm guitaristEquipment:'75 Gibson MarauderGibson Les Paul Faded Double-Cut (Faded Yellow)Gibson Les Paul Junior Faded Double-Cut (Worn Cherry)Roland Custom JC-160 ampMajor: EconomicsFavorite Bands: Weezer, Number Girl, Teenage Fanclub, Eastern Youth and Howard JonesBirthdate: January 24 1977Place of Birth: Kanagawa PrefectureLead guitarist and background vocalEquipment:Gibson Les Paul Standard (Cherry Sunburst)Gibson Les Paul Standard Premium Plus (Cherry Sunburst)Gibson Custom Shop 1954 Les Paul Standard Reissue (Ice Tea)Marshall 4100 JCM 900 Head + cabinet (half-stack).Bogner Ecstasy 4x12 with 1 cabinet in live and 2 in studio (Seen on "Aru Machi no Ganjou" and "Korogaru Iwa, Kimi ni Asa ga Furu" PV)Major: EconomicsFavorite Bands: Radiohead, Manic Street Preachers, Supergrass and XTCBirthdate: August 19 1977Place of Birth: Shizuoka PrefectureBassist and background vocalsEquipment:'62 Fender Jazz Bass (Lake Placid Blue, 3-Tone Sunburst)Ampeg Bass AH 300 Amp headMajor: LiteratureFavorite Bands: The Beatles, Oasis, The Smashing Pumpkins, and Pet Shop BoysBirthdate: September 25 1977Place of Birth: Kanagawa PrefectureDrummerPearl Drums (custom set)Sabian cymbalsMajor: EngineeringFavorite Bands: Brian Setzer, Link, and Hi-StandardDiscographyAlbums2003: Kimi Tsunagi Five M2004: Sol-fa2006: Fanclub2006: Feedback File2008: World World World2008: Surf Bungaku KamakuraEPs2000: Caramelman and Asian Kung-Fu Generation2000: The Time Past And I Could Not See You Again2001: I'm Standing Here2003: Hōkai Amplifier2008: Mada Minu Ashita niSinglesYearTitleChart positionsAlbumOricon2003"Mirai no Kakera"34Kimi Tsunagi Five M"Kimi to Iu Hana"142004Siren]]"2Sol-fa"Loop &amp; Loop"8Rewrite]]"4"Kimi no Machi Made"32005Blue Train]]"5Fanclub2006"World Apart"1"Aru Machi no Gunjō"–World World World2007After Dark]]"52008"Korogaru Iwa, Kimi ni Asa ga Furu"6"Fujisawa Loser"–Surf Bungaku KamakuraOther albums2005: Nano-Mugen Compilation2006: Nano-Mugen Compilation 2006Husking Bee Tribute Album (March 21, 2007)2008: Nano-Mugen Compilation 2008DVDsEizō Sakuhinshū Volume 1 (November 26, 2004)Eizō Sakuhinshū Volume 2 (April 20, 2005)Eizō Sakuhinshū Volume 3 (March 21, 2007)Eizō Sakuhinshū Volume 4 (March 26, 2008)ReferencesExternal linksAsian Kung-Fu Generation official website Asian Kung-Fu Generation official website Nano-Mugen official websiteASIAN KUNG-FU GENERATION Flashback International fan siteMasafumi GotōTakahiro YamadaKensuke KitaKiyoshi Ijichi| group2 = Studio albums | list2 = Kimi Tsunagi Five MSol-faFanclubFeedback FileWorld World World| group3 = EPs | list3 = Caramelman and Asian Kung-Fu GenerationThe Time Past And I Could Not See You AgainI'm Standing HereHōkai AmplifierMada Minu Ashita ni| group4 = Singles | list4 = "Mirai no Kakera""Kimi to Iu Hana""Siren""Loop &amp; Loop""Rewrite""Kimi no Machi Made""Blue Train""World Apart""Aru Machi no Gunjō""After Dark""Korogaru Iwa, Kimi ni Asa ga Furu""Fujisawa Loser"| group5 = Other albums | list5 = Nano-Mugen CompilationNano-Mugen Compilation 2006Husking Bee Tribute AlbumNano-Mugen Compilation 2008| group6 = DVDs | list6 = Eizō Sakuhinshū Volume 1Eizō Sakuhinshū Volume 2Eizō Sakuhinshū Volume 3Eizō Sakuhinshū Volume 4| group7 = Related articles | list7 = Discography Category:Sony Music Japan artists Category:Japanese rock music groups Category:1990s music groups Category:Musical groups established in 1996 Category:Japanese musical groupsde:Asian Kung-Fu Generation es:Asian Kung-fu Generation eu:Asian Kung-Fu Generation fr:Asian Kung-fu Generation hr:Asian Kung-Fu Generation id:Asian Kung-Fu Generation it:Asian Kung-Fu Generation ms:Asian Kung-fu Generation nl:Asian Kung-Fu Generation ja:ASIAN KUNG-FU GENERATION pl:Asian Kung-Fu Generation pt:Asian Kung-Fu Generation simple:Asian Kung-Fu Generation fi:Asian Kung-fu Generation sv:Asian Kung-Fu Generation zh:ASIAN KUNG-FU GENERATION