Middleware is computer software that connects software components or applications. The software consists of a set of enabling services that allow multiple processes running on one or more machines to interact across a network. This technology evolved to provide for interoperability in support of the move to coherent distributed architectures, which are used most often to support and simplify complex, distributed applications. It includes web servers, application servers, and similar tools that support application development and delivery. Middleware is especially integral to modern information technology based on XML, SOAP, Web services, and service-oriented architecture.It sits "in the middle" between application software working on different operating systems. It is similar to the middle layer of a three-tier single system architecture, except that it is stretched across multiple systems or applications. Examples include database systems, telecommunications software, transaction monitors, and messaging-and-queueing software.The distinction between operating system and middleware functionality is, to some extent, arbitrary. While core kernel functionality can only be provided by the operating system itself, some functionality previously provided by separately sold middleware is now integrated in operating systems. A typical example is the TCP/IP stack for telecommunications, nowadays included in virtually every operating system.In simulation technology, middleware is generally used in the context of the high level architecture (HLA) that applies to many distributed simulations. It is a layer of software that lies between the application code and the run-time infrastructure. Middleware generally consists of a library of functions, and enables a number of applications &ndash; simulations or federates in HLA terminology &ndash; to page these functions from the common library rather than re-create them for each applicationDefinitionsMiddleware is the enabling technology of enterprise application integration. It describes a piece of software that connects two or more software applications, allowing them to exchange data.ObjectWeb defines middleware as: "The software layer that lies between the operating system and applications on each side of a distributed computing system in a network."OriginsMiddleware is a relatively new addition to the computing landscape. It gained popularity in the 1980s as a solution to the problem of how to link newer applications to older legacy systems, although the term had been in use since 1968. It also facilitated distributed processing, the connection of multiple applications to create a larger application, usually over a network.OrganizationsIBM, Red Hat, and Oracle Corporation are major vendors providing middleware software. Vendors such as SAP, TIBCO, Mercator Software, Crossflo, Vitria and webMethods were specifically founded to provide Web-oriented middleware tools. Groups such as the Apache Software Foundation and the ObjectWeb Consortium encourage the development of open source middleware.Use of middlewareMiddleware services provide a more functional set of application programming interfaces to allow an application to:Locate transparently across the network, thus providing interaction with another service or applicationBe independent from network servicesBe reliable and available alwayswhen compared to the operating system and network services.Types of middlewareHurwitz's classification system organizes the many types of middleware that are currently available.Hurwitz, J. 1998 "Sorting Out Middleware." DMBS 11.1 (January): 10-12. These classifications are based on scalability and recoverability:Remote Procedure Call — Client makes calls to procedures running on remote systems. Can be asynchronous or synchronous.Message Oriented Middleware — Messages sent to the client are collected and stored until they are acted upon, while the client continues with other processing.Object Request Broker — This type of middleware makes it possible for applications to send objects and request services in an object-oriented system.SQL-oriented Data Access — middleware between applications and database servers.Other sources include these additional classifications:Transaction processing monitors — Provides tools and an environment to develop and deploy distributed applications.Application servers — software installed on a computer to facilitate the serving (running) of other applications.Enterprise Service Bus — An abstraction layer on top of an Enterprise Messaging System.See alsoComparison of business integration softwareReferencesExternal linksInternet2 Middleware InitiativeDynamically Self Configuring Automotive Systems Middleware Abstraction LayerSWAMI - Swedish Alliance for Middleware InfrastructureElement (commercial offering from Enea)Open Middleware Infrastructure Institute (OMII-UK)Common XML VocabulariesSpecific XML VocabulariesCategory:Buzzwords *ca:Programari intermediari da:Middleware de:Middleware es:Middleware fr:Intergiciel ko:미들웨어 it:Middleware he:תווכה lmo:Middleware nl:Middleware ja:ミドルウェア pl:Middleware pt:Middleware ru:Подпрограммное обеспечение sv:Middleware zh:中间件