This article refers to the 12th century Polish monarch. For the 14th century founder of the Jagiellon dynasty, see Jogaila, and for other monarchs with similar names, see Ladislaus II (disambiguation)..]]Władysław II the Exile, (; Kraków, Kingdom of Poland, 1105 – May 30, 1159, Altenburg, Holy Roman Empire) was High Duke of Poland, 1138-1146. He was the son of Bolesław III Wrymouth, Duke of Poland, and Zbyslava, daughter of Sviatopolk II of Kiev.In 1125 Władysław married Agnes of Babenberg, granddaughter of Emperor Henry IV. They had three sons: Bolesław I the Tall, Duke of Silesia; Mieszko I Tanglefoot, Duke of Opole; Konrad I of Głogów and a daughter, Richeza of Poland, who married Alfonso VII, King of Castile and León. They may have had a fourth son named Albert.BiographyFollowing the death of his father, Bolesław III Wrymouth, Władysław II, as his eldest son, became High Duke of Poland. He controlled the high-ducal provinces of Kraków and Gniezno and also his hereditary province of Silesia.In 1145 he attempted to take control of the country. In 1146 he accepted overlordship by the emperor and became founder of the Silesian Piasts. He was banned by the bishop of Gniezno and mutilated the voivode, the Danish castellan Peter Wlast (Polish: Piotr Włostowic). Władysław was driven into exile in 1146 by his younger brothers, and in 1159 he died at the Altenburg Kaiserpfalz of Emperor Frederick I Barbarossa.In 1163 the province of Silesia was granted to Władysław's sons by Poland's Duke Bolesław IV the Curly. Subsequently Silesia was divided into as many as 17 separate duchies among Władysław's descendants and successors, until the Silesian Piasts died out with George IV William of Legnica in 1675.See alsoCarmen MauriExternal linksIn 1146 Wladislaw accepts imperial souverainty (German)See alsoHistory of Holy Roman EmpireHistory of Poland (966-1385)Dukes of SilesiaCategory:1105 births Category:1159 deaths Category:Dukes of Silesia Category:House of Piast Category:Polish monarchs ca:Ladislau II de Polònia de:Władysław II. (Polen) es:Ladislao II el Desterrado fr:Ladislas II le Banni it:Ladislao II l'Esiliato ka:ვლადისლავ II (პოლონეთი) lv:Vladislavs II (Polijas kņazs) hu:II. Ulászló lengyel fejedelem nl:Wladislaus de Balling ja:ヴワディスワフ2世 (ポーランド大公) pl:Władysław II Wygnaniec ru:Владислав II Изгнанник