Rinteln, West Germany |Died = |Origin = Derbyshire, England |Instrument = Vocals, Guitar, Bass guitar, drums and percussion, Clarinet, Saxophone, Piano |Notable_instruments = Fender 52' TelecasterGibson SGGibson Les PaulFender Mustang |Genre = Indie rock, Britpop |Occupation = Singer-songwriter, multi-instrumentalist |Years_active = 1988–present |Label = |Associated_acts = BlurPaul Weller |URL = GrahamCoxon.co.uk  Graham Leslie Coxon (b. 12 March 1969) is an English guitarist, singer-songwriter, multi-instrumentalist and painter. He initially came to prominence as the guitarist in the rock band Blur. His artistic and musical contribution is prominently featured on the band's first six albums, from 1991's Leisure to 1999's 13. The latter's cover was also designed by Coxon.In 2002, he left Blur, following a bitter dispute with the other members. He only featured in the final track for the following year's Think Tank. In September 2007, Graham Coxon reunited with the band, but Blur stated that they have no plans for recording in the immediate future.He is also a critically acclaimed solo artist, having recorded six solo albums, with a seventh in the works. Half of them were recorded while still a member of the band. Coxon is capable of playing several other instruments, besides guitar, and is famous for recording his albums single-handedly, without much help from session musicians.Music careerBlur (1989-2002; 2007) Graham Coxon studied Fine Arts at Goldsmiths College, London, for two years, where early on he met bassist Alex James, until he quit due to the increasing success of his band at the time, Seymour, who later changed its name to Blur. As well as providing all guitars and backing vocals, Graham's low-fi and alternative musical style and tastes highly influenced the band's less commercial music in the late 90's. He left the band in 2002 following a dispute with the other members and his alleged alcohol problems. As he stated in an interview in 2006; “I had a breakthrough, I think my life just became calmer, I gave up drinking. My priorities changed as I had a young daughter. The group didn’t want me to record for the Think Tank album, so I took it as a sign to leave". His last contribution to Blur was a song called "Battery in Your Leg", the closing song on Blur's 2003 album Think Tank, before leaving the line-up.Damon Albarn has frequently said that the door is always open for Coxon to rejoin the band. In 2004 it was rumoured that he was rejoining Blur, but both sides denied this. Coxon stated that although a reunion meeting was a good one, he would not be rejoining Blur and remained firm on his decision. It seems they patched-up some differences and continued their friendship, despite the turmoil surrounding Coxon's departure. However, at the time Coxon seemed adamant and refused to rejoin the band.In August 2007, Alex James said that Blur would be returning to studio in October with Graham Coxon to start recording a new album. It confirmed previous reports from December 2006 by James, who said that he would persuade Coxon to return in the band. James said that in the studio they would decide whether to release a new album or call it quits. In late September the band reunited with Coxon for an "enjoyable lunch", but said that they don't plan any new studio work as of yet. Coxon said that beside this lunch they never discussed any potential recording. "We met for a catch-up and it was great, but there was no real talk of recording. It doesn’t really bother me."Graham Coxon reveals why Blur didn't reunite | News | NME.COMSolo work (1998-present)Coxon had already released three solo albums while as a member of Blur before his 2002 departure. His first, released on his own Transcopic label was The Sky is Too High in 1998, a ramshackle mixture of English folk music and 1960s-style garage rock, influenced by Billy Childish. This was followed by the more extreme The Golden D in 2000 and the thoughtful Dylan-Drakesque Crow Sit on Blood Tree (2001). After going solo full time, he released The Kiss of Morning in 2002. The album proved to be his most accessible to date and was promoted with the single "Escape Song" which proved to be an interesting hybrid of Syd Barrett's "Octopus" and progressive rock trail-blazers The Nice. In 2004, Coxon released his fifth solo album Happiness in Magazines, produced by ex-Blur and The Smiths producer Stephen Street. This proved to be his most successful album to date, and he received the NME Award for 'Best Solo Artist' in 2005.In March 2006 he released his sixth solo album, called Love Travels at Illegal Speeds, again produced by Stephen Street. It marks Coxon's first album away from his now-defunct indie label 'Transcopic'. The LP was preceded by the singles "Standing On My Own Again" on February 27 and "You &amp; I". Coxon embarked on a tour of the UK, starting at Newcastle University. He also got involved in a single supporting the England national football team at the 2006 FIFA World Cup. The song was a re-working of the Sham 69 hit "Hurry Up Harry", and was released as "Sham 69 and The Special Assembly" (as well as Coxon and Sham 69, Virgin Radio DJ Christian O'Connell, who had run a competition on his show to find a band to record a song in support of the team, was involved in the recording of the song). "Hurry Up England" entered the UK Singles Chart at #10.In October 2006, Coxon released a double live album Burnt to Bitz: At the Astoria immediately after his sold-out London Astoria show. The album features 27 songs, with at least one song from each of his albums. In July 2007 Coxon released a single with Paul Weller, called "This Old Town". The single peaked at #39 in the UK Singles Chart.Coxon recently announced that he is in the studio for a forthcoming 7th album due to be released mid 2008BBC - 6 Music - Coxon's in studio&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; Speaking to NME, Coxon said that the new album will be a concept record: "It's about a man who is born in, um, possibly the '50s. Grows up, meets a girl, gets married, then has to go to war and gets really knackered up and then has a divorce and then goes mad and then...er...dies and goes to heaven."NMEOn 3 July, 2008 Coxon announced on his forum "EMI are not releasing my next LP. they have said that they are only going to release big artists....i am kind of angry but i am glad too...but...i have been dropped." "forums.grahamcoxon.co.uk :: View topic - how do i say this&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; Future plans are cloudly, but it is likely the 7th album will be self or independently released.Musicality and instrumentsIn his solo albums Coxon plays nearly all of the instruments. Radiohead's Jonny Greenwood praised Coxon's musicality and talent: "Anything that has more of Graham's guitar playing, I'm bound to like."Quotes about Graham Coxon Noel Gallagher of Oasis, despite his public feud with Blur, has described Coxon as one of the most gifted guitarists of his generation.Forever' DVD. Bonus InterviewDuring his days in Blur, Graham was rarely seen without a Fender Mustang or Fender Telecaster on stage. Exceptions would be made for his early days in Blur, where he had not yet discovered the Telecaster. Graham himself has admitted that he got a bit greedy with Telecasters. These days, Graham often uses more than one guitar whilst performing his solo work, Gibson SGs being one of them. He has also occasionally used a Gibson Les Paul and a Gibson ES thinline archtop.Other artistic endeavoursGraham's independent label, Transcopic, was co-managed with his good friend, and then business partner, Jamie Davis. Jamie now runs Independent label Ark Recordings. Graham's artistic influence was evident across all aspects of the record label. Graham illustrated and designed all of his own album art and the insect ridden, 2001 Transcopic web site. He also continued painting a series of personal work, most of which remained unseen until 2004, when he exhibited at the ICA in london. http://www.grahamcoxonart.comApart from being a musician, Coxon is also a visual artist, and he designs all of his album sleeves. He has also designed album sleeves for other artists. He studied fine art at Goldsmiths College for around a year in 1988, leaving to pursue his musical career with Blur. In his time there he mixed with upcoming talents such as Damien Hirst, Michael Landy, Sam Taylor-Wood, and Abigail Lane, some of the future leading lights of the Britart movement.In July 2006, Graham Coxon wrote and had published a foreword for a new edition of Herman Hesse's novel, Narcissus and Goldmund. His work also featured on the cover of English folk singer Kate Rusby's album 'The Girl Who Couldn't Fly'In September 2006 Coxon revealed a musical soundscape created especially for "Verheaven" an exhibition at London's Riflemaker Gallery of the work of artist Julie Verhoeven.DiscographyThe Sky Is Too High (1998)The Golden D (2000)Crow Sit on Blood Tree (2001)The Kiss of Morning (2002)Happiness in Magazines (2004)Love Travels at Illegal Speeds (2006)ReferencesExternal linksOfficial Label WebsiteOfficial WebsiteArt Website Category:1969 births Category:Alumni of Goldsmiths, University of London Category:Blur members Category:English male singers Category:English multi-instrumentalists Category:English painters Category:English rock guitarists Category:English songwriters Category:Living peopleca:Graham Coxon cs:Graham Coxon de:Graham Coxon es:Graham Coxon fr:Graham Coxon gl:Graham Coxon ko:그레이엄 콕슨 it:Graham Coxon he:גראהם קוקסון nl:Graham Coxon ja:グレアム・コクソン pl:Graham Coxon pt:Graham Coxon sv:Graham Coxon