| Section2 = | Section3 = | Section7 = , ,  | SPhrases = , , ,  | FlashPt = −39 °C | Autoignition = 185 °C | Section8 = Acetaldehyde, sometimes known as ethanal, is an organic chemical compound with the formula CH3CHO or MeCHO. It is a flammable liquid with a fruity smell. Acetaldehyde occurs naturally in ripe fruit, coffee, and fresh bread, and is produced by plants as part of their normal metabolism. It is popularly known as the chemical that causes hangovers.How Hangovers Work, HowStuffWorksIn the chemical industry, acetaldehyde is used as an intermediate in the production of acetic acid, certain esters, and a number of other chemicals. In 1989, US production stood at 740 million pounds (336,000&nbsp;tonnes). An important production method for acetaldehyde is the Wacker process.Biological aspectsIn the liver, the enzyme alcohol dehydrogenase converts ethanol into acetaldehyde, which is then further converted into harmless acetic acid by acetaldehyde dehydrogenase. The last steps of alcoholic fermentation in bacteria, plants and yeast involve the conversion of pyruvate into acetaldehyde by the enzyme pyruvate decarboxylase, followed by the conversion of acetaldehyde into ethanol. The latter reaction is again catalyzed by an alcohol dehydrogenase, now operating in the opposite direction.Acetaldehyde and hangoversMost people of East Asian descent have a mutation in their alcohol dehydrogenase gene that makes this enzyme unusually effective at converting ethanol to acetaldehyde, and about half of such people also have a form of acetaldehyde dehydrogenase that is less effective at converting acetaldehyde to acetic acid. This combination causes them to suffer from the alcohol flush reaction, in which acetaldehyde accumulates after drinking, leading to severe and immediate hangover symptoms. These people are therefore less likely to become alcoholics. The drug disulfiram (Antabuse) also prevents the oxidation of acetaldehyde to acetic acid, with the same unpleasant effects for drinkers. It is used in the treatment of alcoholism.Applications in organic synthesisAcetaldehyde is a common 2-carbon building block in organic synthesis.Sowin, T. J.; Melcher, L. M. ”Acetaldehyde” in Encyclopedia of Reagents for Organic Synthesis (Ed: L. Paquette) 2004, J. Wiley & Sons, New York.  Because of its small size and its availability as the anhydrous monomer (unlike formaldehyde), it is a common electrophile. With respect to its condensation reactions, acetaldehyde is prochiral. It is mainly used as a source of the CH3C+H(OH) synthon in aldol and related condensation reactions. Grignard reagents and organolithium compounds react with MeCHO to give hydroxyethyl derivatives. In one of the more spectacular condensation reactions, three equivalents of formaldehyde add to MeCHO to give pentaerythritol, C(CH2OH)4.In a Strecker reaction, acetaldehyde condenses with cyanide and ammonia to give, after hydrolysis, the amino acid alanine. Acetaldehyde can condense with amines to yield imines, such as the condensation with cyclohexylamine to give N-ethylidenecyclohexylamine. These imines can be used to direct subsequent reactions like an aldol condensation.It is also an important building block for the synthesis of heterocyclic compounds. A remarkable example is its conversion upon treatment with ammonia to 5-ethyl-2-methylpyridine ("aldehyde-collidine”).Acetal derivativesThree molecules of acetaldehyde condense to form “paraldehyde,” a cyclic trimer containing C-O single bonds; four condense to form the cyclic molecule called metaldehyde.Acetaldehyde forms a stable acetal upon reaction with ethanol under conditions that favor dehydration. The product, CH3CH(OCH2CH3)2, is in fact called "acetal," although acetal is used more widely to describe other compounds with the formula RCH(OR')2.EthenolOnly a trace of acetaldehyde exists as the enol form, ethenol, with K&lt;sub&gt;eq&lt;/sub&gt; = 6 x 10-5.March, J. “Organic Chemistry: Reactions, Mechanisms, and Structures” J. Wiley, New York: 1992. ISBN 0-471-58148-8.Environmental occurrenceAcetaldehyde is an air pollutant resulting from combustion, such as automotive exhaust and tobacco smoke. It is also created by thermal degradation of polymers in the plastics processing industry. Smoking. (2006). Encyclopædia Britannica. Accessed 27 Oct 2006.SafetyAcetaldehyde is toxic when applied externally for prolonged periods, an irritant, and a probable carcinogen.Chemical Summary For Acetaldehyde, US Environmental Protection AgencyReferencesSee alsoWine faultExternal linksInternational Chemical Safety Card 0009National Pollutant Inventory - AcetaldehdeNIOSH Pocket Guide to Chemical HazardsMethods for sampling and analysisIARC Monograph: &quot;Acetaldehyde&quot;Hal Kibbey, Genetic Influences on Alcohol Drinking and Alcoholism, Indiana University Research and Creative Activity, Vol. 17 no. 3.United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) information for acetaldehydeCategory:Flavors Category:Aldehydes Category:Hazardous air pollutants Category:IARC Group 2B carcinogensbe:Ацэтальдэгід be-x-old:Ацэтальдэгід bg:Ацеталдехид cs:Acetaldehyd da:Ethanal de:Acetaldehyd et:Atseetaldehüüd es:Acetaldehído fa:استالدهید fr:Éthanal gl:Acetaldehido ko:아세트알데하이드 id:Asetaldehida it:Acetaldeide la:Ethanal lv:Acetaldehīds hu:Acetaldehid nl:Aceetaldehyde ja:アセトアルデヒド no:Acetaldehyd nn:Acetaldehyd pl:Aldehyd octowy pt:Etanal ro:Acetaldehidă ru:Ацетальдегид sk:Acetaldehyd sl:Etanal fi:Asetaldehydi sv:Acetaldehyd zh:乙醛