 The Dusky Dolphin (Lagenorhynchus obscurus) is a highly gregarious and acrobatic dolphin found in coastal waters in the Southern Hemisphere. It was first identified by John Edward Gray in 1828. It is very closely genetically related to the Pacific White-sided Dolphin, but current scientific consensus is that they are distinct species.TaxonomyThough the Dusky and Pacific White-sided Dolphins are traditionally placed in the genus Lagenorhynchus, recent molecular analyses indicate that they are more closely related to the dolphins of the genus Cephalorhynchus. If true, this would mean that these two species must either be transferred to Cephalorhynchus or be given a new genus of their own.A genus that has been proposed for these species is Sagmatias.Physical descriptionThe Dusky Dolphin is small to medium in length in comparison with other species in the family. There is significant variation in size among the different population areas. The largest Duskies have been encountered off Peru, where they are up to 210 cm in length and 100 kg in mass. The back of the dolphin is dark grey or black and dorsal fin is distinctively two-toned&mdash;the leading edge matches the back in colour, but the trailing edge is a much lighter greyish white. Duskies have a long, light grey patch on their foreside leading to a short, dark grey beak. The throat and belly are white. There are two blazes of white colour running back on the body from the dorsal fin to the tail. Right between the white areas remains a characteristic thorn-shaped patch of dark colour, by which the species can easily be recognized. Aside from that, Dusky Dolphins may be confused with other members of their genus when observed at sea.Population and distributionThe population of Dusky Dolphins is unknown, but authorities do not fear for the survival of the species at the moment. The Dusky Dolphin is distributed in coastal waters of Chile, Argentina and the Falkland Islands, Namibia and the west coast of South Africa and all around New Zealand. There may also be resident populations off Tasmania and New South Wales and several small islands in the South Atlantic and Indian Oceans. An aerial survey off Patagonia in the mid-1990s indicated that there was a local population in excess of 7,000 individuals. Duskies can move over great distances (one individual had a confirmed range of 780 nautical miles) (1,440 km). However it is not believed that they follow a migatory pattern.Conservation and dolphin-watchingOutside Peruvian coastal waters, the main danger to Dusky Dolphins from humans is the accidental catching of individuals by fishing trawls. In the mid-1980s around 400&ndash;600 animals were killed annually off Patagonia due to individuals becoming trapped in nets. Rates appear to have declined since then, due to tighter regulations on the fishing industry. However, in Peruvian waters, in addition to accidental catches, there is continuing deliberate catching via nets and harpoons. The number of animals killed each year in this area runs into the thousands and is a cause of concern for conservationists.On account of their highly acrobatic displays and movements in large groups called pods, Dusky Dolphins are firm favourites with dolphin-watching enthusiasts. Several boat operators from Kaikoura, on New Zealand South Island are either dedicated to watching Duskies or watch them in combination with tours aimed at watching Sperm Whales.Pictures Image:Lagenorhynchus obscurus.jpg Image:Lagenorhynchus obscurus2.jpg Image:IMG 7082.JPG Image:duskyd.jpg References Database entry includes a lengthy justification of why this species is listed as data deficientNational Audubon Society: Guide to Marine Mammals of the World ISBN 0-375-41141-0Encyclopedia of Marine Mammals ISBN 0-12-551340-2LeDuc, R.G., Perrin, W.F., Dizon, A.E. (1999). Phylogenetic relationships among the delphinid cetaceans based on full cytochrome b sequences. Marine Mammal Science 15, 619–648.May-Collado, L., Agnarsson, I. (2006). Cytochrome b and Bayesian inference of whale phylogeny. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 38, 344-354.External linksARKive - [http://www.arkive.org/species/GES/mammals/Lagenorhynchus_obscurus/ images and movies of the dusky dolphin (Lagenorhynchus obscurus)]Whale and Dolphin Conservation SocietyCategory:Oceanic dolphins Category:Mammals of South America Category:Mammals of Argentina Category:Mammals of Chile Category:Mammals of Peru Category:Mammals of Africa Category:Mammals of New Zealand Category:Cetaceans of Australiade:Schwarzdelfin es:Lagenorhynchus obscurus fr:Lagenorhynchus obscurus it:Lagenorhynchus obscurus nl:Donkergestreepte dolfijn ja:ハラジロカマイルカ pl:Delfin ciemny pt:Golfinho-do-crepúsculo sv:Södra Atlantvitsiding