  is a remarkable constellation, visible from all points on the globe at one time or another during the year. The constellation of Orion is the area outlined in the dashed yellow line. Orion contains a striking and well-known star pattern that has the form of a hunter.]] In common usage, a constellation is a group of celestial bodies that are connected together in some arrangement: typically stars to form a visible figure or picture. The term is also traditionally and less formally used to mean any group of stars visibly related to each other, if they are considered as a fixed configuration or pattern in a particular culture. Some well-known constellations contain striking and familiar patterns of bright stars. Examples are Orion (containing a figure of a hunter), Leo (containing bright stars outlining the form of a lion), Scorpius (a scorpion), and Crux (a cross).The astronomical definition of constellation is slightly different, however. A group of stars that can be connected to form a figure or a picture is called an asterism, while a constellation is an area on the sky. The International Astronomical Union (IAU) divides the sky into 88 official constellations with exact boundaries, so that every direction or place in the sky belongs within one constellation. These are mostly based upon the constellations of the ancient Greek tradition, passed down through the Middle Ages, and contains the signs of the zodiac. The sun passes through the 12 constellations of the zodiac (plus Ophiuchus). Pagan and ancient Greek astronomers believed they had a special significance.The constellation boundaries were drawn up by Eugène Delporte in 1930, and he drew them along vertical and horizontal lines of right ascension and declination. However, he did so for the epoch B1875.0, the era when Benjamin A. Gould made the proposal on which Delporte based his work. The consequence of the early date is that due to precession of the equinoxes, the borders on a modern star map (eg, for epoch J2000) are already somewhat skewed and no longer perfectly vertical or horizontal. This skew will increase over the years and centuries to come.A star pattern may be widely known but may not be recognized by the International Astronomical Union; such a pattern of stars is called an asterism. An example is the grouping called the Big Dipper (North America) or the Plough (UK). The stars in a constellation or asterism rarely have any astrophysical relationship to each other; they just happen to appear close together in the sky as viewed from Earth and typically lie many light-years apart in space. However, one exception to this is the Ursa Major moving group. The grouping of stars into constellations is essentially arbitrary, and different cultures have had different constellations, although a few of the more obvious ones tend to recur frequently, e.g., Orion and Scorpius.The first ancient Greek works which dealt with the constellations were books of star myths. The oldest of these was a poem composed by Hesiod in circa the eighth century BCE, of which only fragments survive. They knew that these constellations were superstitious. The most complete existing works dealing with the mythical origins of the constellations are by the Hellenistic writer termed pseudo-Eratosthenes and an early Roman writer styled pseudo-Hyginus.The term constellation is also used to describe the arrangement and orbits of artificial satellites such as those of various Global navigation satellite systems including GPS.Dark Cloud Constellationsin the sky", a 'constellation' defined by dark clouds rather than the stars. A western interpretation would recognise the Crux or Southern Cross, on the left Scorpius. The head of the emu is the Coalsack.]] Members of the Inca civilization identified various dark areas in the Milky Way as animals, and associated their appearance with the seasonal rains. These areas are commonly referred to by modern researchers as dark cloud constellationsThe Incan View of the Night Sky or dark nebulae. Australian Aboriginal astronomy also used dark nebulae in some constellations, the most famous being the "emu in the sky" whose head is formed by the coalsack.Chinese constellations Chinese constellations are different from the Western constellations, due to the independent development of ancient Chinese astronomy. Ancient Chinese skywatchers divided their night sky in a different way, but there are also similarities. The Chinese counterpart of the 12 western zodiac constellations are the 28 "Xiu" (宿) or "mansions" (a literal translation).Indian constellationsIn Hindu/Vedic astronomy Rashi means constellation. The twelve rashis along the ecliptic correspond directly to the twelve western star signs. These are however divided into 27 Nakshatras, or lunar houses.See also JyotiṣaConstellation names and star designationsAll modern constellation names are Latin proper names or words, and some stars are named using the genitive, or sometimes the ablative of the constellation in which they are found. These are formed by using the usual rules of Latin grammar, and for those unfamiliar with that language the form of the genitive is sometimes unpredictable and must be memorized. Some examples include: Aries → Arietis; Taurus → Tauri; Gemini → Geminorum; Virgo → Virginis; Libra → Librae; Pisces → Piscium; Lepus → Leporis. In addition, all constellation names have a standard three-letter abbreviation assigned by the International Astronomical Union; for example, Aries becomes Ari, Pisces becomes Psc, Sagittarius becomes Sgr and Ursa Major becomes UMa http://www.ianridpath.com/constellations1.htm.Identification of stars within a given constellation includes use of Bayer designations such as Alpha Centauri, Flamsteed designations such as 61 Cygni, and variable star designations such as RR Lyrae. However, many fainter stars will just be given a catalog number designation (in each of various star catalogs) that does not incorporate the constellation name. Frequently, the abbreviated form of the constellation name is used in the star designation, e.g. Alpha Cen, 61 Cyg, RR Lyr.For more information about star names, see star designations and the list of stars by constellation.See alsoChinese constellationDendera zodiacFormer constellationsList of constellationsList of constellations by areaList of stars by constellationHistory of the constellationsReferencesExternal linksConstellations in the context of the Milky WayIAU: The Constellations, including high quality maps.All the constellations on AstronooStar Tales origins and mythology of the constellations (Ian Ridpath)The ConstellationsPhotographic Atlas of the ConstellationsCelestia free 3D realtime space-simulation (OpenGL)Stellarium realtime sky rendering program (OpenGL)Strasbourg Astronomical Data Center Files on official IAU constellation boundaries (the older NASA ADC service does not function anymore)Interactive Sky Charts (Allows navigation through the entire sky with variable star detail, optional constellation lines)http://www.astronomical.org/portal/modules/wfsection/index.php?category=1http://www.seds.org/Maps/Stars_en/Fig/const.htmlFull constellation diagrams resembling their namesOnline Text: Hyginus, Astronomica translated by Mary Grant Greco-Roman constellation mythsObserve satellites, space shuttles, constellations, cometsDiagram showing three dimensional distribution of stars in Orion Category:Constellations Category:Astronomical objectsaf:Sterrebeeld als:Sternbild ar:كوكبة ast:Constelación az:Bürc bn:তারামণ্ডল bs:Sazviježđe br:Steredeg bg:Съзвездие ca:Constel·lació cv:Çăлтăрлăх cs:Souhvězdí cy:Cytser da:Stjernebillede de:Sternbild et:Tähtkuju el:Αστερισμός es:Constelación eo:Konstelacio eu:Konstelazio fa:صورت فلکی fr:Constellation fy:Stjerrebyld gl:Constelación gu:નક્ષત્ર ko:별자리 hr:Zviježđe io:Stelaro id:Rasi bintang it:Costellazione he:קבוצת כוכבים ka:თანავარსკვლავედები sw:Kundinyota la:Sidus lv:Zvaigznājs lb:Stärebild lt:Žvaigždynas ln:Nzɔ́tɔ hu:Csillagkép ml:നക്ഷത്രരാശി mt:Kostellazzjoni nl:Sterrenbeeld nds-nl:Konstelloatsie ja:星座 no:Stjernebilde nn:Stjernebilete nrm:Constellâtion nov:Stelaro oc:Constellacion pl:Gwiazdozbiór pt:Constelação ro:Constelaţie qu:Warani ru:Созвездие scn:Custiddazzioni simple:Constellation sk:Súhvezdie sl:Ozvezdje sh:Sazviježđe fi:Tähdistö sv:Stjärnbild th:กลุ่มดาว vi:Chòm sao tg:Бурҷ tr:Takımyıldız uk:Сузір'я wa:Sitoelreye zh-yue:星座 zh:星座