 Amnat Charoen () is one of the north-eastern provinces (changwat) of Thailand. Neighboring provinces are (clockwise from the south) Ubon Ratchathani, Yasothon and Mukdahan. To the east it borders Salavan of Laos.GeographyThe province is located in the Mekong valley. A long footpath along some of the river allows people to enjoy the view. In dry season, from February to May, water in Mekong River descends, and allows islands to appear. Such famous islands include Kaeng Tanglang at Si Sombun Village, close to Amphoe Chanuman, and Kaeng Hin Khan at Ban Hin Khan, 30 kilometres south of Amphoe Chanuman. The other two rivers in the province are the Lam Sae Bok and Lam Sae Bai.Phu Sa Dok Bua National Park is partially located in Amnat Charoen Province.HistoryAmnat Charoen gained city status during the reign of King Rama III. It was first administered from Nakhon Khemarat, and later from Ubon Ratchathani. It became a province in its own right on January 12, 1993, when it was split off from Ubon Ratchathani. It is thus one of the three youngest provinces of Thailand, together with Nong Bua Lam Phu and Sa Kaeo.Economy''Chidsakol Farm สวนเกษตรชิตสกนต์ '' Located close to Chidsakol Resort, the famous farm features flower and beautiful plants. Its huge plantation of African marigold always turn the whole field into bright yellow hue when in full bloom.Ban Kham Phra Handicraft Centre. ศูนย์จำหน่ายหัตถกรรมบ้านคำพระ The centre is located at Ban Kham Phra, on Hua Taphan-Amnat Charoen highway, 2 kilometres from Amphoe Hua Taphan’s Office. The centre offers various handicrafts made by housewife.''Ban Chang Tho Royal Folk Arts and Craft Training Centre.ศูนย์ศิลปาชีพบ้านสร้างถ่อ '' Located 5 kilometres from Amphoe Hua Taphan, the centre offers training course on various local crafts such as weaving and gems cutting. The centre here produces world-class gems cutting technician.Administrative divisionsThe province is subdivided into 7 districts (Amphoe). The districts are further subdivided into 56 communes (tambon) and 653 villages (muban).TourismSightsAmphoe MueangBuddha Park and Phra Mongkhon Ming Mueang. พุทธอุทยาน และพระมงคลมิ่งเมือง This base rock area is shady with different kinds of vegetables decorated under the theme of ‘Buddha Park’. Inside, a huge northern Indian style Buddha image, Phra Mongkhon Ming Mueang or Phra Yai, is placed in front of the temple. This beautiful Buddha image is now logo of Amnat Charoen province.'Chidsakol Farm สวนเกษตรชิตสกนต์ ' Located close to Chidsakol Resort, the famous farm features flower and beautiful plants. Its huge plantation of African marigold always turn the whole field into bright yellow hue when in full bloom.Wat Tham Saeng Phet. วัดถ้ำแสงเพชร Located on spacious sandstone plain, the temple has vihara, pagoda, and huge reclining Buddha. This cave is named Saeng Phet or ‘diamond’s glitters’ due to its flashing glitter rock. Wat Tham Saeng Phet is meditation centre of those who honour Achan Cha Suphatto, famous monk from Wat Nong Pa Phong. Foreign monks always come for practicing mediation here.Mo Lam Village หมู่บ้านหมอลำ The cultural attraction of Amnat Charoen, Mo Lam is famous traditional performance of Northeast Thailand. Performance features dancing and playing traditional music. Here is the biggest Mo Lam village of Thailand, with 20 bans of Mo Lam living in the village. Mo Lam performance of Ban Pla Khao is awarded Amnat Charoen’s OTOP (One Tambon One Product).Amphoe Hua TaphanBan Kham Phra Handicraft Centre. ศูนย์จำหน่ายหัตถกรรมบ้านคำพระ The centre offers various handicrafts made by housewife.Ban Chang Tho Royal Folk Arts and Craft Training Centre.ศูนย์ศิลปาชีพบ้านสร้าง The centre offers training course on various local crafts such as weaving and gems cutting. The centre here produces world-class gems cutting technician.Amphoe PhanaWat Phra Lao Thep Nimit. วัดพระเหลาเทพนิมิตร The temple has Lanna-style chapel which houses the principle Buddha image “Phra Lao Thep Nimit”. Built in 1720, the Buddha image, in subduing Mara attitude decorated by gold leaves, is considered the most beautiful Buddha image of Northeast Region. The art style mirrors Laotian art style from Vientiane which is influenced by Lanna during the 16th-17th Century.Don Chao Pu Botanical Park วนอุทยานดอนเจ้าปู่ The park is home to various wildlife particularly crab-eating macaques, plenty of which can be easily spotted. The park houses a sacred shrine, as well as Buddha image in the attitude of birth, enlightenment, the first sermon, and reclining in the park.Amphoe SenangkhanikhomPhu Sa Dok Bua ภูสระดอกบัว On the mountain top, there are 11 stone pools, which is a few metres wide. It is quite strange that all of them are occupied by different species of colourful lotus, which is found normally in swamp. Locals insist that nobody plant the lotus, but all come naturally. So, they name these pools “Phu Sa Dok Bua” or literally the mountain of lotus pool. Nearby is a huge cave which can accommodate hundred of people. It once served as stronghold of Communist Party of Thailand.Amphoe ChanumanMekong River’s scenery ทิวทัศน์ริมฝั่งโขง In front of Amphoe Chanuman office, long footpath running side by side with the river allows people to enjoy the view. In dry season, from February to May, water in Mekong River descends, and allows islands to appear. Such famous islands include Kaeng Tanglang and Kaeng Hin Khan.CultureMajor wats in Amnat Charoen include Wat Tham Saeng Phet and Wat Phra Lao Thep Nimit.Buddha Utthayan park, located just north of the town of Amnat Charoen, is known for its major Buddha image, Phra Mongkhon Ming Muang, which is the logo of Amnat Charoen province.The village of Ban Pla Khao is known nationwide for its mo lam performances.''Don Chao Pu Botanical Park วนอุทยานดอนเจ้าปู่ '' Located 40 kilometres from Amnat Charoen city, the park acquires 260 rais area of mixed deciduous forest. The park is home to various wildlife particularly crab-eating macaques, plenty of which can be easily spotted. The park houses a sacred shrine, as well as Buddha image in the attitude of birth, enlightenment, the first sermon, and reclining in the park.FestivalsAmnat Charoen attach their lifestyle to local tradition and festivals that are held throughout year such as festival to mark the end of Buddhist’s Lent, Rocket festival, Loi Krathong, and Songkran for example. Moreover, they practice 14 moral regulations such as cleaning feet before getting inside the house, donating food to the monk, avoiding to step of monk’s shadow, paying respect to the parent, paying homage to the Buddha image with flower, candle and joss stick, and learning Dhamma everyday and etc. Amnat Charoen is well known for its silk products.Most people in Amphoe Chanuman are descendant of Phu Thai ethnic group that migrated from Lao. They specialise in weaving “Khit” cloth which has unique patterns. Their traditional musical performance “Mo Lam” always support the democratic constitutional monarchy. Amnat Charoen people is trying to retain “Long Khuang” tradition. The traditional once was meeting time between teenagers to do activities together such as weaving or silk spinning, among lively traditional music.Boat Race Tradition. ประเพณีการแข่งเรือยาว Held between October and November each year, the boat race is a big tournament for boat from Amphoe Khemarat of Ubon Ratchathani, Amphoe Chanuman of Amnat Charoen, and Lao. The race takes place in Mekong River, in front of Amphoe Chanuman’s office. The fair goer can enjoy the race at day and shopping and entertainment at night.SymbolsIn the middle of the provincial seal is an image of the Buddha called Phra Mongkol Ming Muang. Also known as Phra Yai (Big Buddha), this 20m high statue is the most sacred one in the city of Amnat Charoen.External linksProvince page from the Tourist Authority of ThailandWebsite of the province (Thai only)Amnat Charoen provincial map, coat of arms and postal stamp  Category:Amnat Charoen Province Category:Isan Category:Provinces of Thailandzh-min-nan:Amnat Charoen Hú de:Amnat Charoen (Provinz) es:Provincia de Amnat Charoen fr:Province de Amnat Charoen it:Amnat Charoen (provincia) ms:Amnat Charoen nl:Changwat Amnat Charoen ja:アムナートチャルーン県 no:Amnat Charoen (provins) pl:Prowincja Amnat Charoen pt:Amnat Charoen (província) fi:Amnat Charoen sv:Amnat Charoen th:จังหวัดอำนาจเจริญ vi:Amnat Charoen (tỉnh) tg:Вилояти Амнат Чароен zh:安納乍能府