 | place of birth = St. James's Palace, London | date of death =  | place of death = Palazzo Muti, Rome | place of burial = St. Peter's Basilica, Vatican City | Prince James, Prince of Wales (James Francis Edward Stuart; "The Old Pretender" or "The Old Chevalier"; 10 June 1688 – 1 January 1766) was the son of the deposed James II and VII. As such, he claimed the English, Scottish and Irish thrones (as James III and VIII) from the death of his father in 1701, when he was proclaimed king of England, Scotland and Ireland by his cousin Louis XIV of France.Birth and childhoodattributed to Alexis Simon Belle ]] From the moment of his birth, on 10 June 1688, at St. James's Palace, the prince was the subject of controversy. He was born to the reigning king, James II of England and VII of Scots, and his Roman Catholic second wife, Mary of Modena, and as such was automatically Duke of Cornwall and Duke of Rothesay among other titles.James II had two adult daughters from his first marriage who had been brought up in the Protestant faith. As long as there was a possibility of one of them succeeding him directly, his opponents saw his rule as only a temporary setback. When people began to fear that Mary would produce a son and heir, a movement grew to replace James by force with his elder daughter Princess Mary and his son-in-law/nephew, William of Orange.When the young prince was born, a false rumour was immediately spread that the call for a "warming-pan" had been the pretext for a substitution, the real baby having allegedly been born dead. On 10 December, within six months of his birth, Mary of Modena left London and took him to France for safety, while his father continued to fight (unsuccessfully) to retain his crown.With his sister Louisa Maria, the prince was brought up in France. There, recognised by King Louis XIV of France as the rightful heir to the English and Scottish thrones, he became the focus for the Jacobite movement.Struggle for the throneOn his father's death in 1701, he declared himself King, with the name of James III and VIII and recognised as such by France, Spain, the Papal States and Modena. All of these states refused to recognise William III, Mary II or Queen Anne as the legitimate British sovereign. As a result of this, he was attainted for treason, 2 March 1702, and his titles forfeited under British law.Complete Peerage. "Duke of Cornwall".Jacobite risingHaving been delayed in France by an attack of measles, James attempted an invasion, trying to land at the Firth of Forth on 23 March 1708. His French ships were driven back by the fleet of Admiral Sir George Byng.Had he renounced his Roman Catholic faith, he might have strengthened the existing support of Tory, pro-Restoration forces in England,Sir Winston Churchill, A History of the English-Speaking Peoples, Vol. 2, Dodd, Mead & Co., NY 1957, pp. 97-98. but he refused to do so. As a result, in 1714, a German Protestant became King—George I of Great Britain.French forces were defeated, and Louis XIV of France was forced to accept peace with England and her allies. He signed the Treaty of Utrecht, in 1713, that, amongst other conditions, required him to expel James from France.The FifteenIn the following year, the Jacobites started &quot;The 'Fifteen&quot; Jacobite rising in Scotland, aimed at restoring "James III and VIII" to the throne. In 1715, James finally set foot on Scottish soil, following the indecisive Battle of Sheriffmuir, but he was disappointed by the strength of support he found. Instead of carrying through the plans for a coronation at Scone, he returned to France, sailing from Montrose. He was not welcomed back, because his patron, Louis XIV, was dead and the government found him a political embarrassment.==Life as the "Pretender"==Pope Clement XI offered James the Palazzo Muti in Rome as his residence, and he accepted. Innocent XIII, like his predecessor, showed much support. Thanks to the mediation of a close friend of his, Cardinal Filippo Antonio Gualterio, James was granted a life annuity of eight thousand Roman scudi. Such help enabled him to organise a Roman Jacobite court, where the Pope's cousin, Francesco Maria Conti of Siena, was the Gentiluomo di camera (Chamberlain).MarriageOn 3 September 1719, James Francis Edward Stuart married Maria Clementina Sobieska (1702–35), granddaughter of the Polish king, John III Sobieski. They had two sons:Charles Edward Stuart, (31 December 1720 – 31 January 1788), aka "Bonnie Prince Charlie"Henry Benedict Stuart, (11 March 1725 – 13 July 1807), Cardinal of the Roman Catholic ChurchBonnie Prince CharlieFollowing James's failure, attention turned to his son Charles, "the Young Pretender", whose rebellion of 1745 came closer to success than his father's. With the failure of this second rebellion, however, the Stuart hopes of regaining the British throne were effectively destroyed.DeathJames died in Rome on 1 January 1766, and was buried in St. Peter's Basilica at the Vatican. From 14 January the Papacy recognized the Hanoverian dynasty as the legitimate rulers of Britain and Ireland.Titles and honoursTitles10 June – 4 July 1688: His Royal Highness The Duke of Cornwall4 July 1688 The Prince of Wales – Previous Princes – 2 March 1702: His Royal Highness The Prince of Wales2 March 1702 – 1 January 1766: James Francis Edward StuartJacobite, 11 December 1688 – 16 September 1701: His Royal Highness The Prince of WalesJacobite, 16 September 1701 – 1 January 1766: His Majesty The KingJames's full titles before his father's deposition were: Prince James Francis Edward, Prince of Wales and Earl of Chester, Duke of Cornwall, Duke of Rothesay, Earl of Carrick, Baron Renfrew, Lord of the Isles, Prince and Great Steward of Scotland, Knight Companion of the Most Noble Order of the Garter.Upon his father's deposition he lost his automatic titles as eldest son of the Sovereign (i.e. Duke of Cornwall, Duke of Rothesay, Earl of Carrick, Baron Renfrew, Lord of the Isles, Prince and Great Steward of Scotland). Thus he was Prince James Francis Edward, Prince of Wales and Earl of Chester, Knight Companion of the Most Noble Order of the Garter until his attainture for treason.HonoursKG: Knight of the Garter, 1692 – 2 March 1702ArmsAs Prince of Wales, James bore a coat of arms consisting of those of the kingdom, differenced by a label argent of three points.Marks of Cadency in the British Royal FamilyAncestry  See alsoMonument to the Royal StuartsTouch Pieces The cure of Scrofula or the King's EvilCorrespondence with James the Pretender (High Treason) Act 1701 Parliament's response to his claim to the throneNotes and sources    |-    |-    |-  |-    |-    |-    James 3 and 8 James 3 Category:Heirs to the English and British thrones James Francis Edward 019 Category:Dukes in the Peerage of England Category:Dukes in the Peerage of Scotland 016 Category:Heirs apparent who never acceded Category:People from London Category:1688 births Category:1766 deaths James Francis Edward Stuart James Francis Edward Stuart Category:English people of Scottish descent Category:English Roman Catholicsbs:Jakov Franjo Edvard od Velsa cs:Jakub František Stuart de:James Francis Edward Stuart es:Jacobo III de Inglaterra eo:James Francis Edward Stuart fr:Jacques François Stuart gd:Rìgh Seumas VIII Alba agus III Shasainn it:Giacomo Francesco Edoardo Stuart he:ג'יימס פרנסיס אדוארד סטיוארט nl:Jacobus Frans Eduard Stuart ja:ジェームズ・フランシス・エドワード・ステュアート no:James Francis Edward Stuart pl:Jakub Franciszek Edward Stuart pt:James Francis Edward Stuart ru:Джеймс Фрэнсис Эдуард Стюарт fi:James Stuart sv:Jakob Edvard Stuart th:เจ้าชายเจมส์ ฟรานซิส เอ็ดเวิร์ด สจวต