Guillaume François Antoine, Marquis de l'Hôpital (1661 &ndash; February 2, 1704) was a French mathematician. He is perhaps best known for the rule which bears his name for calculating the limiting value of a fraction whose numerator and denominator either both approach zero or both approach infinity.l'Hôpital is commonly spelled as both "l'Hospital" and "l'Hôpital." The Marquis spelled his name with an 's'; however, the French language has since dropped the 's' (it was silent anyway) and added a circumflex to the preceding vowel.l'Hôpital was born in Paris, France. He initially had planned a military career, but poor eyesight caused him to switch to mathematics. He solved the brachistochrone problem, independently of other contemporary mathematicians, such as Isaac Newton. He died in Paris.He is also the author of the first European textbook on differential calculus, l'Analyse des Infiniment Petits pour l'Intelligence des Lignes Courbes. Published in 1696, the text includes the lectures of his teacher, Johann Bernoulli, in which Bernoulli discusses the indeterminate form 0/0. It is the method for solving such indeterminate forms through repeated differentiation that bears his name.In 1694 he forged a deal with Johann Bernoulli. The deal was that l'Hôpital paid Bernoulli 300 Francs a year to tell him of his discoveries, which l'Hôpital described in his book. In 1704, after l'Hôpital's death, Bernoulli revealed the deal to the world, claiming that many of the results in l'Hôpital's book were due to him. In 1922 texts were found that give support for Bernoulli. The widespread story that l'Hôpital tried to get credit for inventing de l'Hôpital's rule is false: he published his book anonymously, acknowledged Bernoulli's help in the introduction, and never claimed to be responsible for the rule.See alsol'Hôpital's ruleExternal linksC. Truesdell The New Bernoulli Edition Isis, Vol. 49, No. 1. (Mar., 1958), pp. 54-62, discusses the strange agreement between Bernoulli and de l'Hôpital on pages 59-62.This article incorporates text from the 1913 ''Catholic Encyclopedia article "Guillaume-François-Antoine de L'Hôpital" by William Fox, a publication now in the public domain.'' Category:1661 births Category:1704 deaths Category:17th century mathematicians Category:18th century mathematicians Category:French mathematicians Category:Mathematical analystsbn:গিয়্যোম দ্য লোপিতাল bg:Гийом Франсоа дьо Лопитал ca:Guillaume François Antoine cs:Guillaume de l'Hôpital da:Guillaume de l'Hôpital de:Guillaume François Antoine, Marquis de L’Hospital es:Guillaume de l'Hôpital fr:Guillaume François Antoine, marquis de L'Hôpital id:Guillaume François Antoine, marquis de l'Hôpital is:Guillaume François Antoine l'Hôpital it:Guillaume François Antoine, marchese de l'Hôpital he:המרקיז דה לופיטל ht:Guillaume de l'Hôpital la:Marchio Hospitalius nl:Guillaume de l'Hôpital ja:ギローム・ド・ロピタル no:Guillaume François Antoine, Marquis de l'Hospital pms:Guillaume François Antoine de L'Hôpital pl:Guillaume Francois Antoine de l'Hospital pt:Guillaume François Antoine, Marquês de l'Hôpital ru:Лопиталь, Гийом Франсуа sl:Guillaume de l'Hôpital sr:Гијом де Лопитал fi:Guillaume de l'Hôpital sv:Guillaume François Antoine l'Hospital tr:Guillaume de l'Hôpital zh:洛必達