 Dezful (Dezh-pol,  Fortress Bridge) is a city in the Khuzestan province in southwestern Iran. The city is thought to be 6000 years oldhttp://www.dezfulcity.org&lt;/ref&gt;.The most famous ancient structure of the city is a bridge that dates back to 300 BCEسايت اداره ميراث فرهنگي ، صنايع دستي و گردشگري شهرستان دزفول&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; In 2006, the city had 235,819 inhabitants.Census85 - (Statistical Center of Iran (in Persian))Population and Housing CensusHistoryThe name "Dezful" has been derived from the two words "Dezj" (fortress)+ "Pol" (bridge), that in combination can stand for 'the bridge to the fortress' or 'fortified bridge'دزفول شناسی - شهر دزفول - آشنايی با دزفول - dezful&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;. The original name of the city was 'Dezjpol' but after the Arabs invaded the area, because they had no 'zj' and 'p' in their vocals, the City was called Dezful, with the 'z' having an 's' soundThe bridge was built during Shapur I and is the oldest fully functioning bridge in the world. When the Roman Emperor Valerian was defeated in Battle of Edessa, remains of his captured army were used to finish the bridge. It's believed that the bridge was made over the ruins of a much older bridge, built during the Elamite dynasties.  It is also believed that a fortress protected the strategic bridge across the Dez river, whence the name, although no trace of this castle remains. Interestingly, the old part of the city adjacent to the bridge is known the "Qaleh" (castle). In the middle of the river, close to the bridge you can see remains of several water mills built ca. 300 BCE. Most of them were actually used up to the beginning of the 20th century. The last one was in use up to 1985.The people of Dezful (Dezfulis) speak a Persian dialect distinct to the city.GeographyDezfūl sits on the main north-south highway from Tehrān to Ahvāz, the provincial capital of Khūzestān. The main rail line from Tehrān to the Persian Gulf is 15 km (9 mi) from Dezfūl, on the opposite side of the Dez River.The city lies close to the foothills of the Zagros Mountains.EconomyDezfūl is the primary commercial center for northern Khūzestān and a market for the agricultural products of Lorestān province. The city also contains a large cotton textile mill and many small- and medium-scale industries. The Dez Dam, 203 m (666 ft) high, completed in 1963, is 32 km (20 mi) upstream from Dezfūl; the dam provides water and electricity for the city, as well as irrigation for nearby sugarcane farms.References External linksdezfulcity.org , Dezful MagazinemyDez.com, Dezful Unofficial WebsiteDezful cityDezfullogy NGOCategory:Cities, towns and villages in Khuzestan Provincear:دزفول cs:Dezfúl de:Dezful es:Dezful fa:دزفول fr:Dezfoul lt:Dezfulis nl:Dezful pl:Dezful ro:Dezful ru:Дизфуль sv:Dezful tg:Дизфӯл tr:Dezful uk:Дезфул