Isabelle of Hainaut (5 April 1170, ValenciennesWorld Roots Genealogy Archive - 15 March 1190, Paris) was queen consort of France.Isabelle was born in Valenciennes, on 5 April 1170 the daughter of Baldwin V, Count of Hainaut and Countess Margaret I of Flanders. She married King Philip II of France on 28 April 1180 at Bapaume and brought as her dowry the county of Artois. The marriage was arranged by her maternal uncle Count Philip of Alsace who was advisor to the KingCawley: Medieval Lands.Isabelle was crowned consort of France at Saint Denis on 28 May 1180. As Baldwin V rightly claimed to be a descendant of Charlemagne, the chroniclers of the time saw in this marriage a union of the Carolingian and Capetian dynasties. Though she received extravagant praise from certain annalists, she failed to win the affections of Philip due to her inability to provide him with an heirCawley: Medieval Lands. Meanwhile, King Philip in 1184, was waging war against Flanders, and angered at seeing Baldwin support his enemies, he called a council at Sens for the purpose of repudiating her. Robert, the king's uncle, successfully interposed. Finally, on 5 September 1187, she gave birth to the needed heir, the future King Louis VIII of France.Her second pregnancy was extremely difficult; on 14 March 1190, Isabelle gave birth to twin sons. Due to complications in childbirth, Isabelle died the next day, and was buried in the cathedral of Notre Dame in Paris. The twins lived only four days (14 March-18 March 1190)http://membres.lycos.fr/behgnam/. Her dowry of Artois eventually returned to the French Crown following the death of Philip. SourcesJill M. Phillips The Rain MaidenCharles Cawley Medieval LandsWorldroots.comNotes and references    Category:House of Hainaut Category:People from Lille Category:Deaths in childbirth Category:French queens consort Category:Women of medieval France Category:People from Nord-Pas-de-Calais Category:1170 births Category:1190 deathsca:Isabel d'Hainault cs:Isabela Henegavská da:Isabella af Hainaut de:Isabella von Hennegau el:Ισαβέλλα του Αινώ es:Isabel de Henao eo:Izabela de Henegovio fr:Isabelle de Hainaut it:Isabella di Hainaut hu:Hainaut-i Izabella nl:Isabella van Henegouwen pl:Izabella z Hainaut pt:Isabel de Hainaut simple:Isabelle of Hainaut sv:Isabella av Hainaut