 Fly Away Home is a 1996 film, directed by Carroll Ballard, about the daughter (Anna Paquin) of a widower (Jeff Daniels) who, with her father, leads a flock of Canada geese from Canada to a wildlife refuge in the US.The film was loosely based on the real-life experiences of Bill Lishman, a Canadian inventor, artist, and ultralight aircraft hobbyist. During the late 1980s and early 1990s, Lishman openly wondered if geese and similar birds could be taught new migration patterns by following ultralight aircraft onto which they had been imprinted. In 1993, after several years of logistical and bureaucratic setbacks, Lishman successfully led a flock of Canada Geese on a winter migration from Ontario, Canada to Northern Virginia, U.S.A. Of the 16 birds that participated in the migration, 13 of them returned the following year entirely on their own.PlotAt the beginning of the film, while riding in a car with her mother, Amy Alden (Anna Paquin), a young girl who is 13 years old, is in an accident that kills her mother. Her father, Thomas Alden (Jeff Daniels), comes to New Zealand and brings her back to Canada a month after the accident. Understandably, Amy is still in shock over her mother's death, and is slow to warm to her father and her new life. Amy and her father have not seen or been in touch since Amy had left with her mother to live in New Zealand when she was three years old.Thomas Alden is an artist, an inventor, and a naturalist. His intelligence is evidenced by the complex inventions and works of art and sculpture that lie around his house and property. Amy also discovers that he has a girlfriend, Susan (Dana Delany) who lives with her father.Amy sets off to explore her new surroundings on her own and adjust to her new life, stopping only sometimes when she has to attend school. Early one morning, a crew of construction vehicles comes along and destroys a place that has been the nesting area for Canadian wild geese. Amy goes out to investigate and finds a bunch of eggs that a nesting mother goose was forced to abandon. Amy rescues the eggs and incubates them inside an old dresser within the barn. When she comes to check on the eggs later on, the goslings are hatched. As Amy is the first living thing they see, she is "imprinted" as their mother; thus they follow her everywhere from then on in the story.Thomas consults with a game warden about how to feed and care for the geese. He does not know that in Canada, one of the game warden's job responsibilities is to pinion the wings of any parentless migratory birds so that they can no longer take flight. Being flightless, there are fewer dangers and hazards for the birds themselves and others. However, as he attempts to do so with one of the goslings, Amy becomes outraged, hits him with a popcorn bowl and locks herself and the goslings in the bathroom. The game warden is then thrown off the Alden property by Thomas.As the geese grow and mature it becomes obvious to Thomas, Amy, and all their friends that the birds must migrate or the game warden will return to pinion their wings to keep them from ever flying. In the meantime, Thomas' brother, David (Terry Kiney) knows of an Ornithologist in the United States who tells him about land in North Carolina where a bird sanctuary is. There is a catch however: birds have not lived at the sanctuary for a long time, and developers have expressed interest in the land. Unless birds are shown to be nesting in the area by November first of that year, the sanctuary will become the property of the developers.David and Thomas agree that the land would be prime for the geese, and Thomas proposes a plan to get the geese to follow him in an aircraft and he will fly south using an ultralight slow-moving aircraft, showing them the way to migrate. At first, his experiments to get the geese to follow him flying are not successful, as they remain on the ground with Amy. Finally, Amy attempts to fly her father's ultralight, and the geese take off after her. However, she ends up crashing near the fence, and to her father's immense relief, is unharmed. Thomas eventually gets a second ultralight craft and trains Amy on how to fly it. All is going according to plan until the night before the planned launch. The game warden comes while the Alden family is out searching for the stranded goose named Igor, and takes the remaining caged geese.Thomas, his brother, and a mutual friend, Barry (Holter Graham), enact a plan to free the geese, and to launch their flight plan. The geese are freed, and Thomas and Amy, flying in their aircraft, get the geese to follow them, flying over Lake Ontario and eventually landing at the U.S. Niagara Air Force Base by nightfall, nearly getting arrested. A news crew is alerted of the feat and Amy and her father quickly become national news. On their journey south over the U.S. eastern seaboard they are supported, encouraged, fed, and sheltered by approving citizens along the way.It is only a matter of time at the bird sanctuary location. A huge crowd of supporters have assembled and they halt the construction crew, which plans to start work so that the developers can claim the land ahead of the deadline. Then, when Amy and her father are nearly there, one of the rudders on Thomas' ultralight comes loose and he crash-lands in a corn field. Amy panics and lands immediately to come to her father's aid. He is slightly injured with a dislocated shoulder, and his ultralight is damaged by the landing, but he tells her that if they wait for help, it might be too late. He tells Amy they are too close to their destination and that she should go on without him. Reassuring her that she has the natural talent as well as her mother's spirit alongside her, she then returns to fly off in her aircraft, continuing the remainder of the journey with the geese alone. Thomas then hitches a ride with participants of the land strike while Amy flies the last leg of the journey on her own.While flying over the town of Newhope, Amy gains the excited attention of the town's citizens who gaze on in awe as she flies overhead. Thomas soon arrives at the sanctuary before Amy and requests that the crowd quiet down so they can listen for Amy and her aircraft. After a short amount of time, Amy's aircraft and the geese appear over a hill and are greeted enthusiastically by the entire crowd as she circles to land, the geese landing in a nearby lake.The credits roll as additional footage plays in the background, showing the geese returning to the Alden farm.CastAs appearing in screen credits (main roles identified, Listed in order of screen credits:Fly Away Home Credits)ActorRoleJeff DanielsThomas "Tom" AldenAnna PaquinAmy AldenDana DelanySusan BarnesTerry KinneyDavid AldenHolter GrahamBarry SticklandJeremy RatchfordDNR OfficerDeborah VerginellaAmy's MotherMichael J. ReynoldsGeneralDavid HemblenDr. KillianKen JamesDeveloperNora BallardJackieSarena PatonLauraOther cast members are too numerous to list, See IMDb Profile.Production crewProducer: Carol Baum  Producer: John Veitch  Executive producer: John M. Eckert  Executive producer: Stephen Price Associate producer: Sandy Gallin Original Music: Mark Isham  Cinematography: Caleb Deschanel  Film Editor: Nicholas C. Smith Casting: Deirdre Bowen, Reuben Cannon Production Design:Seamus Flannery  Set Decoration: Dan Conley  Costume Design: Marie-Sylvie Deveau Makeup: David R. Beecroft (hair stylist), Donald Mowat (makeup artist (as Donald J. Mowat) Production Management:John M. Eckert Second Unit Director: Christopher Ball, Gary Capo Assistant Director: John HoustonOther production crew members are too numerous to list. .]]ProductionThe imprinting project was called Operation Migration and was documented in Lishman's book, Father Goose: One Man, a Gaggle of Geese, and Their Real Life Incredible Journey South. Although the movie was only loosely based on real life events, Lishman acted as both a technical consultant, a sculptor and one of the stunt pilots, ensuring a measure of authenticity. His daughter, Carman took on a secondary acting role. Flying sequences had Lishman and David Woodhouse standing in for Jeff Daniels while Jack Sanderson and Joseph Duff doubled Anna Paquin. Hang glider pilot Michael Robertson also flew in the film.The four-day trip home for the geese that would take them to Lake Ontario, over the Appalachians to Pennsylvania, Maryland, finally settling on the Virginia Shores, had principal photography actually filmed nearly entirely at Port Perry and Sandbanks Provincial Park, Ontario, Canada. Additional location shots were in Toronto, Ontario and Baltimore, Maryland.While in production, the film was at first titled "Flying Wild" but was changed to "Fly Away Home" just weeks before its release in movie theaters. The original trailer has the title "Flying Wild" and can be found on Columbia Tri-Star Jumanji VHS Tape.Director Carroll Ballard and cinematographer Caleb Deschanel previously collaborated on The Black Stallion and Never Cry Wolf with Fly Away Home their third family film. Anna Paquin, who plays daughter to Jeff Daniels in Fly Away Home would later play a love interest in The Squid and the Whale (2005). Upon the release of the Squid and the Whale, Jeff Daniels said that this previous experience made the filming a bit awkward for both of them.ReceptionFor a modest budget, Fly Away Home returned $25 million in the U.S. box office and $31 million worldwide. Audiences enjoyed the evocative family oriented film which also received critical acclaim; Roger Ebert noted that "there are individual shots here almost worth the price of admission... ...a stunning shot in which the towers of Baltimore materialize from the mist, and office workers see the little girl and her geese flying past their windows."Roger Ebert ReviewAwardsCaleb Deschanel's stunning visuals received notice and resulted in nominations for the 1997 Academy Awards and American Society of Cinematographers, USA. Although unsuccessful in both competitions, Fly Away Home went on to win the 1997 Broadcast Film Critics Association Critics Choice Award as the Best Family Film, the 1997 Christopher Award (for family films), 1997 Young Artist Award in the category of Best Family Feature - Drama and the 1997 Genesis Award for Feature Films. Anna Paquin was also nominated for the Young Artist Award for Best Performance in a Feature Film - Leading Young Actress (the film was also nominated as Best Family Feature - Drama) and the 1997 YoungStar Award for Best Performance by a Young Actress in a Drama Film.See alsoImprinting (psychology)ReferencesNotesBibliographyHermes, Patricia. Fly Away Home: The Novelization and Story Behind the Film . New York: Newmarket, 2005. ISBN 1-55704-489-9.Lishman, William. Father Goose: One Man, a Gaggle of Geese, and Their Real Life Incredible Journey South. New York: Crown, 1996. ISBN 0-51770-182-0.External linksOperation MigrationCategory:American films Category:Aviation films Category:1996 films Category:Films based on actual events Category:Films shot in Canada Category:Films shot in Maryland Category:Films shot in New Zealand Category:Films shot in North Carolina Category:Films shot in Toronto Category:Family filmsca:Volant en llibertat de:Amy und die Wildgänse es:Volando libre fr:L'Envolée sauvage it:L'incredibile volo nl:Fly Away Home ja:グース pl:Droga do domu zh:返家十萬里