 | location = Bayside, Queens, U.S. | birthname = Ronald Jeremy Hyatt | spouse = | measurements =  | measureispenis = yes | height =  | weight = | shoe size = 9 | eye color = Violet | hair color = Brown | skin color = White | blood = | orientation = | ethnicity = Jewish | alias = "The Hedgehog" | number of films = 1986 | homepage = http://ronjeremy.com | iafd = RJeremy | egafd = | bgafd = | imdb = 0000465 | afdb = 191 | eurobabeindex = | spelling = US Ronald Jeremy Hyatt (born 12 March 1953 in Bayside, Queens), usually called Ron Jeremy, is an American pornographic actor. Nicknamed "The Hedgehog", he was ranked by AVN at number one in their "100 Top Porn Stars of All Time" list. Jeremy has also appeared in non-pornographic films, with studios such as Troma Entertainment.He is well known for his large penis – claimed by him to be 9.75 inches (nearly 25 cm) in length – and he has gained some notoriety for being capable of autofellatio (which he first demonstrated on-screen in Inside Seka), though he stated in a 2003 interview that due to his weight gain, all he can do nowadays is kiss the tip of his penis.Early lifeRonald Hyatt was born to an upper middle-class Jewish family; his father, Arnold, was a physicist and his mother a book editor who served in the O.S.S. during World War II, as she spoke fluent German and French. He had an uncle who was a gangster with ties to Bugsy Siegel.Jeremy attended Cardozo High School in Bayside, Queens, where former CIA director George Tenet and actor Reginald VelJohnson were classmates. He earned a bachelor's degree in education and theatre and a master's degree in special education from Queens College in New York. He taught special-education classes in the New York City area, and was a substitute teacher for regular classes.Pornographic film careerand Heidi Fleiss at the Adult Video Network Convention 2006 in Las Vegas]] Jeremy left the teaching profession (he called it his "ace in the hole") to pursue an acting career in New York City, and says he learned what it was like to make no money as an actor who "starved Off-Broadway". Jeremy posed for Playgirl after his then-girlfriend submitted his photo to the magazine, and subsequently moved into the adult film industry as a means to support himself.His first appearance in a porn film was in Snap (later renamed COD), by Chuck Vincent. He started using his first and middle name professionally in the adult industry, after his grandmother Rose was pestered by people calling her thinking they were contacting him. "His grandma Rose &mdash; listed at that time as R. Hyatt in the phone book &mdash; was pestered at all hours by prospective suitors who’d seen Jeremy in Playgirl. 'She had to move out of her apartment for a month,' he confides. 'My father told me, "If you want to get into this naked, crazy business, so be it, but if you use the family name again, I’ll kill you."’"Jeremy had his nickname "The Hedgehog" bestowed upon him by Bill Margold after an incident on the set of Olympic Fever, shot in 1979. Jeremy had flown in from New York to shoot the movie, and had dressed in a T-shirt and shorts, expecting warm weather. During his motorcycle ride to the set, located near Lake Arrowhead in the California mountains, the weather had deteriorated to blizzard conditions, which chilled him to the point of hypothermia. Upon arriving at the set, Jeremy was immediately whisked away to warm up in a hot shower. When he had finished, his skin had taken on a pink hue from the temperature extremes, and the hairs on his body were standing on end. Margold's comment upon seeing Jeremy after the shower was, "You are a hedgehog, my friend. A walking, talking hedgehog." Contrary to popular belief, the nickname had nothing to do with Jeremy's (subsequent) weight gain, as he was quite physically fit at the time.Jeremy is listed in the Guinness Book of World Records for "Most Appearances in Adult Films"; his entry on the Internet Adult Film Database lists more than 1,900 films in which he has performed, and an additional 275 films which he directed. By way of comparison, John Holmes &mdash; the next highest-ranked male star on the AVN Top 50 porn stars &mdash; has only 384 acting credits listed on the IAFD.One joke that made the rounds within the industry at the time was "the kinkier acts some actresses would not perform were bestiality, sado-masochism and sex with Jeremy". However, he has since been recognized for his contributions to the adult industry by being inducted into both the AVN and XRCO Hall of Fame. Additionally, Jeremy's work earned him a spot on the Adult Star Path of Fame located in Edison, New Jersey. He saw a resurgence in popularity in the new millennium, as his star power combined with a desire from many actresses to work with men not aided by drugs like Viagra.Non-pornographic appearancesFilmOutside the adult film industry, Jeremy worked as a "special consultant" for the 1986 film 9½ Weeks. He also worked as a consultant on the 1997 film Boogie Nights – which chronicled the emergence of the fictional porn star Dirk Diggler (Mark Wahlberg, loosely based on the life of porn star and former co-worker of Jeremy's, John Holmes) – and the film The Chase, in which he has a small cameo as a news cameraman. He also appeared in the 1999 film The Boondock Saints (in which his character is murdered in a pornographic theatre), and played a bartender in 2002's Spun. He was an extra in Ghostbusters,New GB Trivia - Ron Jeremy in GB : protoncharging.com&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; played a male strip-club announcer in Detroit Rock City, and had a cameo in the film Killing Zoe and in the porn spoof, Orgazmo.In 2003, Jeremy appeared as himself in, and lent his name to, the comedy film Being Ron Jeremy, a parody of Being John Malkovich. He was also the subject of a feature-length biographical documentary, Porn Star: The Legend of Ron Jeremy, released in 2001 and widely distributed on DVD by mainstream retailers. Jeremy is a frequent interviewee in documentaries about the porn industry, or related subjects such as Fuck: A Fuckumentary.In 2007, he appeared in the comedy film Finishing the Game as himself.Food productsJeremy's love for food led him to release a line of condiments, the first of which was a hot sauce.TelevisionJeremy appeared in the second season of The Surreal Life and the ninth season The Surreal Life: Fame Games, in which he finished second to Traci Bingham on the season finale, which aired on 25 March 2007. Jeremy also appeared in a segment on Comedy Central's Chappelle's Show. He has also made appearances on Penn and Teller's Bullshit! in episodes regarding penis enlargement and circumcision. In 2005, he appeared on the UK reality TV show, The Farm.Jeremy is also part of a running gag on ESPN's Jim Rome Is Burning and Premiere Radio Networks' The Jim Rome Show. Rome, who normally despises the porn industry, has a new-found respect for Jeremy for recording a program bumper saying, "This is Ron Jeremy, head coach of the Miami Heat, and you're watching Jim Rome Is Burning." The bumper is a reference to Jeremy's striking resemblance to former Miami Heat and current Orlando Magic head coach Stan Van Gundy.Jeremy appeared in the Robot Chicken episode, "A Piece of the Action", which was voiced by Michael Benyaer. In this episode, he and several others parody The Surreal Life and Lord of the Rings. The segment lampoons his penis size by having his character unseat a knight on horseback using nothing but his erect penis. Jeremy appeared as himself in the 2001 Family Guy episode "Brian Does Hollywood", in which he is a presenter at the "Woody Awards" for which Brian Griffin is a nominee.Comedian Kathy Griffin recently went on a date with him in the third season of her reality show, Kathy Griffin: My Life on the D-List.In 2003, Jeremy appeared on The Frank Skinner Show on British TV, and performed a duet ("I Got You Babe") with former Cabinet minister Mo Mowlam.Jeremy appeared on Chappelle's Show as himself in a spoof called "What if the internet was a real place?", in which he shows Chappelle some pornography.Jeremy also appeared as a guest commentator on the Fox Network's late-night news and comedy talkshow Red Eye w/ Greg Gutfeld in 2007.MusicJeremy has appeared in fifteen music videos, more than any other pornographic actor. He appeared in videos by Sublime, Mercury Rev, Moby, Kid Rock, Everclear, Sam Kinison, Guns N' Roses, Mad Yellow Sun, Los Umbrellos, Rottweiler Hundar (Icelandic), the Radioactive Chickenheads, A Day To Remember and Necro. In addition, he released a rap single called "Freak Of The Week" which stayed on the Billboard charts for twenty-seven weeks.&lt;/ref&gt;Video gamesRon Jeremy was featured as a playable character in the ''Celebrity Deathmatch'' video game; one of his famous fighting moves is an offscreen suggestion that he unzips his pants and proceeds to repeatedly beat Johnny Chavez across the face with his penis.He also appears as a fairy in the game Leisure Suit Larry: Magna Cum Laude, in which he gives tips and advice to the main character.VideoJeremy has recently begun to appear in a series of viral video spoofs for video sharing website Heavy.com. The videos lampooned include Britney Spears, lonelygirl15, Little Superstar and others.TECHSMART: Not-So-Little Superstar Video - Heavy.com&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Ron Jeremy is the voice of himself in a viral video on Atom Films entitled "Titans of Justice". The video casts him, along with an entourage, as a porn star by day and superhero by night.AtomFilms: Titans of Justice, Episode 1&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Ron Jeremy also appeared in the music video of the Trucks (a British/Norwegian pop punk band) song "It's Just Porn Mum". Bot generated title --&gt;AdvertisementAs a further indication of his crossover celebrity status, Jeremy has posed in an advertisement for People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals to raise awareness of the overpopulation of domesticated animals. In the poster, he lies partially nude on a bed, a pair of handcuffs on his wrists. Poking fun at his notoriety, the title of the advertisement exclaims, "Too much sex can be a bad thing. Spay and neuter your cats and dogs."BooksJeremy released his memoir, titled Ron Jeremy: The Hardest (Working) Man in Showbiz, in February 2007. The book was published by Harper Collins.Public speakingIn 2005, Jeremy made headlines when he was invited to address the Oxford Union. According to the Union’s librarian, Vladimir Bermant, "Ron is the biggest and apparently the best in the business, so I'm sure he'll have some fascinating stories to tell." His speech defending pornography was well-received.In 2006, Jeremy began a series of debates on pornography opposing Pastor Craig Gross, founder of anti-pornography website XXXchurch.com, visiting various US and Canada college campuses as part of the "Porn Debate Tour".Xxx-Porn-Debate&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Partial filmography52 Pick-Up† (1986)One Night At Mr. Wolfes (1987.5)Caged Fury (1989)Dead Bang† (1989)The Chase (1994)Mr. Stitch (1996)Killing Zoe (1994)George Wallace (1997)Orgazmo (1997)Ronin (film)† (1998, scene cut by the studio)The Boondock Saints (1999)Detroit Rock City (1999)American Virgin (2000, Cameo)Nash Bridges: “El Diablo” (2000)Reindeer Games† (2000)Just Shoot Me!: “The Proposal: Part 2” (2001)Alex in Wonder (2001)Fast Sofa (2001)The Rules of Attraction (2002)Back by Midnight (2002, Cameo)Night at the Golden Eagle (2002)Paris (2003)Terror Firmer (2004)Citizen Toxie: The Toxic Avenger IV (2004)The Nickel Children (2005)Andre The butcher (Dead meat) (2005)Charlie's Death Wish (2005)Poultrygeist (2007)''Not The Brady's (2007)''Loaded (2007)Finishing the Game (2007)One-Eyed Monster (2008)Stone &amp; Ed (2008)Homo Erectus (2008)† Directed by John FrankenheimerAwards1983 AFAA Best Supporting Actor for Suzie Superstar1984 AFAA Best Supporting Actor for All the way in1986 AVN Best Supporting Actor - Film for Candy Stripers II1991 AVN Best Supporting Actor - Video for Playin' Dirty2006 F.A.M.E. Award for Favorite Adult Actor&lt;/ref&gt;Literature"Ron Jeremy: The Hardest (Working) Man in Showbiz". Memoir, published in February 2007, by Harper Collins.External linksTitans of Justice, Ron Jeremy viral video on AtomFilmsXXX Porn Debate, the official site for his "Porn Debate Tour"[http://www.observer.com/node/42673 Ron Jeremy profile in The New York Observer]References  Category:1953 births Category:Living people Category:American Jews Category:American porn stars Category:City University of New York people Category:Jewish porn stars Category:Jewish actors Category:Male porn stars Category:Participants in American reality television series Category:People from Long Island Category:People from Queens Category:Queens College, City University of New York alumnide:Ron Jeremy es:Ron Jeremy fr:Ron Jeremy gl:Ron Jeremy it:Ron Jeremy la:Ronaldus Jeremy hu:Ron Jeremy nl:Ron Jeremy ja:ロン・ジェレミー pl:Ron Jeremy pt:Ron Jeremy ru:Джереми, Рон fi:Ron Jeremy sv:Ron Jeremy