 | birth_place = Nazareth | occupation = Film director | parents =  ' Hany Abu-Assad' (born 11 October 1961) ( is a Dutch-Palestinian film director. His film Paradise Now, about two Palestinian men preparing for a suicide attack in Israel, was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film in 2006.Early life Abu-Assad was born in Nazareth in 1961 and emigrated to the Netherlands in 1980. After having studied technical engineering in Delft he worked as an airplane engineer in the Netherlands for several years. He was hired having an Israeli passport, but when he appeared to be an Arab Israeli and not Jewish, he was fired, allegedly for that reason. Abu-Assad entered the world of cinema and television as a producer. He formed Ayloul Film Productions in 1990.Film careerIn 1998 he directed his first film, Het 14de kippetje (The Fourteenth Chick), from a script by writer Arnon Grunberg. Later films are the short Nazareth 2000 (2000) and Rana's Wedding (2002). His documentary film Ford Transit (situated in Israel/Palestine) was stopped from showing by Dutch television (VPRO) when it appeared to be a scripted film, including a Palestinian actor playing a brutal Israeli soldier. It caused much debate in the Netherlands.In 2006 his film Paradise Now won the Golden Globe for Best Foreign language film, and it received an Oscar-nomination in the same category. In 2005 Paradise Now won the Golden Calf for best Dutch film.Abu-Assad is currently filming a movie entitled L.A. Cairo with DViant Films Inc.FilmographyRana's Wedding (2002)L.A. Cairo (2007) (announced)''Eleven MinutesAbu-Assad joins Gang for 'Minutes' - Entertainment News, Film News, Media - Variety&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;ReferencesFurther readingExternal links&quot;It was a joke I was even nominated&quot; The Guardian&quot;I risked my life to make this movie&quot; The Telegraph&quot;Ticket to Paradise?&quot; Christianity TodayHany Abu Assad's Profile  Category:1961 births Category:Living people Category:Dutch film directors Category:Palestinian film directors Category:Dutch people of Palestinian descent Category:People from Nazarethar:هاني أبو أسعد de:Hany Abu-Assad es:Hany Abu-Assad eo:Hany Abu-Assad fr:Hany Abu-Assad io:Hany Abu-Assad it:Hany Abu-Assad nl:Hany Abu-Assad ja:ハニ・アブ・アサド no:Hany Abu-Assad pl:Hany Abu-Assad