| deathplace=???| other=BenedictBenedict III was Pope from September 29, 855 to April 17, 858.Little is known of Benedict's life before his papacy. He was educated and lived in Rome and was cardinal priest of S. Callisto at the time of his election.J. N. D. Kelly, "Benedict III" in The Oxford Dictionary of Popes, (2006). Benedict had a reputation for learning and piety. He was elected upon the refusal of Hadrian, the initial choice of clergy and people. A group of important people preferred a different candidate, Anastasius. This latter group had Benedict's election disavowed and Anastasius installed. However, popular opinion was so strong that Benedict's consecration was allowed. The Emperor Louis II's envoys forced Benedict to handle Anastasius and his adherents leniently. The schism helped to weaken the hold of the emperors upon the popes, especially upon their elections.Benedict intervened in the conflict between the sons of Lothair I (the future Lothair II, Louis II and Charles) on the latter's death. He was active in other cases and adopted a firm position towards Constantinople.Aethelwulf of Wessex and his son, the future Alfred the Great visited Rome in Benedict's reign.If a three-year-term of the legendary (and probably fictional) Pope Joan had existed between the reigns of Pope Leo IV and Benedict, Benedict's term would only have consisted of a few months.       References9th edition (1880s) of the Encyclopædia BritannicaCheetham, Nicolas, Keepers of the Keys, New York: Charles Scribner's Sons, 1983. ISBN 0-684-1863-XExternal linksOpera Omnia by Migne Patrologia Latina with analytical indexes Category:Popes Category:9th century bishops Category:Year of birth unknown Category:858 deathsaf:Pous Benedictus III bg:Бенедикт III ca:Benet III cs:Benedikt III. de:Benedikt III. es:Benedicto III eo:Benedikto la 3-a fr:Benoît III gl:Bieito III, papa ko:교황 베네딕토 3세 id:Paus Benediktus III it:Papa Benedetto III jv:Paus Benediktus III sw:Papa Benedikto III la:Benedictus III hu:III. Benedek pápa mr:पोप बेनेडिक्ट तिसरा nl:Paus Benedictus III ja:ベネディクトゥス3世 (ローマ教皇) pl:Benedykt III pt:Papa Bento III ro:Papa Benedict al III-lea ru:Бенедикт III (папа римский) sk:Benedikt III. fi:Benedictus III sv:Benedictus III tl:Benedicto III th:สมเด็จพระสันตะปาปาเบเนดิกต์ที่ 3 uk:Бенедикт III zh:本篤三世