 , Rajasthan, India.]] The Great Cormorant (Phalacrocorax carbo), known as the Great Black Cormorant across the Northern Hemisphere, the Black Cormorant in Australia and the Black Shag further south in New Zealand, is a widespread member of the cormorant family of seabirds. It breeds in much of the Old World and the Atlantic coast of North America.DescriptionThe Great Cormorant is a large black bird, but there is a wide variation in size in the species wide range. Weight is reported from 1.5 kg (3.3 lbs)http://www3.interscience.wiley.com/journal/118658278/abstract&lt;/ref&gt; to 5.3 kg (11.7 lbs)http://www.thecanadianencyclopedia.com/index.cfm?PgNm=TCE&amp;Params=A1ARTA0001923 A, with a typical range from 2.6 to 3.7 kg (5.7-8.2 lbs).http://www.birds.cornell.edu/AllAboutBirds/BirdGuide/Great_Cormorant.html&lt;/ref&gt;. Length can vary from 70 to 102 cm (28-40 in) and wingspan from 121 to 160 cm (48-63 in). It has a longish tail and yellow throat-patch. Adults have white thigh patches in the breeding season. In European waters it can be distinguished from the Common Shag by its larger size, heavier build, thicker bill, lack of a crest and plumage without any green tinge.In eastern North America, it is similarly larger and bulkier than Double-crested Cormorant, and the latter species has more yellow on the throat and bill.DistributionThis is a very common and widespread bird species. It feeds on the sea, in estuaries, and on freshwater lakes and rivers. Northern birds migrate south and winter along any coast that is well-supplied with fish.The type subspecies, P. c. carbo, is found mainly in Atlantic waters and nearby inland areas: on western European coasts and south to North Africa, the Faroe Islands, Iceland and Greenland; and on the eastern seaboard of North America, though in America it breeds only in the north of its range, in the Canadian maritime provinces. The subspecies found in Australasian waters, P. carbo novaehollandiae, has a crest. In New Zealand it is known as the Black Shag or by its Māori name; Kawau Barrie Heather and Hugh Robertson, "The Field guide to the Birds of New Zealand"(revised edition), Viking, 2005The 80-100 cm long White-breasted Cormorant P. c. lucidus found in sub-Saharan Africa, has a white neck and breast. It is often treated as a full species, Phalacrocorax lucidus (e.g. Sibley & Monroe, 1990, Sinclair, Hockey and Tarboton, 2002)In addition to the Australasian and African forms, Phalacrocorax carbo novaehollandiae and P. carbo lucidus mentioned above, other geographically distinct subspecies are recognised, including P. c. sinensis (western Europe to east Asia), P. c. maroccanus (north-western Africa), and P. c. hannedae (Japan).Some authors treat all these as allospecies of a P. carbo superspecies group.Behaviour(Ahinga), other cormorants & Great Egret near Hodal in Faridabad District of Haryana, India.]] The Great Cormorant breeds mainly on coasts, nesting on cliffs or in trees (which are eventually killed by the droppings), but also increasingly inland. 3-4 eggs are laid in a nest of seaweed or twigs.The Great Cormorant can dive to considerable depths, but often feeds in shallow water. It frequently brings prey to the surface. A wide variety of fish are taken: cormorants are often noticed eating eels, but this may reflect the considerable time taken to subdue an eel and position it for swallowing, rather than any dominance of eels in the diet. In British waters, dive times of 20-30 seconds are common, with a recovery time on the surface around a third of the dive time.The Great Cormorant is one of the few birds which can move its eyes, which assists in hunting. http://www.plosone.org/article/fetchArticle.action?articleURI=info:doi/10.1371/journal.pone.0000639Cormorants and humansMany fishermen see in the Great Cormorant a competitor for fish. Because of this it was nearly hunted to extinction in the past. Thanks to conservation efforts its numbers increased. At the moment there are about 450,000 breeding birds in Western Europe. Increasing populations have once again brought the cormorant into conflict with fisheriesFAO publication: Workshop on a European Cormorant management Plan, 20–21 November 2007;ftp://ftp.fao.org/docrep/fao/010/i0210e/i0210e00.pdf EIFAC, European Inland Fisheries Advisory Commission . For example, in Britain, where inland breeding was once uncommon, there are now increasing numbers of birds breeding inland, and many inland fish farms and fisheries now claim to be suffering high losses due to these birds. In the UK each year some licences are issued to shoot specified numbers of cormorants in order to help reduce predation, it is however still illegal to kill a bird without such a licence.Chinese fishermen sometimes tie fishing line around the throats of cormorants, tight enough to prevent swallowing, and deploy them from small boats. The cormorants "eat" fish without being able to fully swallow them, and the fishermen are able to retrieve the fish simply by forcing open the cormorants' mouths, apparently engaging the regurgitation reflex.In North Norway, cormorants are traditionally seen as semi-sacred. It is regarded as good luck to have cormorants gather near your village or settlement. An old legend states that people who die far out at sea, their bodies never recovered, spend eternity on the island Utrøst - which can only occasionally be found by mortals. The inhabitants of Utrøst can only visit their homes in the shape of cormorants.Gallery Image:Great Cormorant I2-Bharatpur IMG 8515.jpg| Non-breeding at Bharatpur, Rajasthan, India. Image:Great Cormorant- Close up I4 IMG 8515.jpg| Non-breeding: close up, at Bharatpur, Rajasthan, India. Image:Great Cormorants (Phalacrocorax carbo) W IMG 3361.jpg| In Kolkata, West Bengal, India. Image:Great_cormorant_Phalacrocorax_carbo_7.jpg| Megalong Valley, New South Wales, Australia Image:Great Cormorant flight Bowra Mar08.JPG| In flight breeding-plumage South-west Queensland, Australia Image:Lithuania Juodkrante Great Cormorant colony 1.jpg|A colony of Great Cormorants in Juodkrantė and damage to the trees in which they are nesting. Image:Great Cormorant I IMG 9243.jpg|Near Hodal in Faridabad District of Haryana, India. Image:Great Cormorant (Immature) I3 IMG 7240.jpg|Immature flying in Kolkata, West Bengal, India. Image:Great Cormorant Mai Po.jpg|Mai Po, Hong Kong.==References==  Database entry includes justification for why this species is of least concernSibley, C. G., & Monroe, B. L. (1990). Distribution and taxonomy of birds of the world. New Haven CT: Yale University Press.Ian Sinclair, Phil Hockey and Warwick Tarboton, SASOL Birds of Southern Africa (Struik 2002) ISBN 1-86872-721-1External links Great Cormorant videos on the Internet Bird CollectionPictures of Great CormorantsCategory:Birds of Greenland Category:Phalacrocorax Category:Birds of Asia Category:Birds of Australia Category:Birds of Kenya Category:Birds of Armenia Category:Birds of Afghanistan Category:Birds of Pakistan Category:Birds of India Category:Birds of Sri Lanka Category:Birds of Nepal Category:Birds of Bahrain Category:Birds of Lithuania Category:Birds of China Category:Birds of Europe Category:Birds of the Faroe Islands Category:Birds of Southeast Asia Category:Birds of Bangladesh Category:Birds of Burma Category:Birds of Vietnam Category:Birds of Laos Category:Birds of Cambodia Category:Birds of Thailand Category:Birds of Malaysia Category:Birds of Turkey Category:Birds of Brunei Category:Birds of Indonesia Category:Birds of the Philippines Category:Birds of South Australia Category:Birds of Tasmania Category:Birds of Western Australia Category:Birds of New Zealand Cormorant Category:Birds of Gibraltarzh-min-nan:Lô͘-chî bg:Голям корморан ca:Corb marí gros cy:Mulfran da:Skarv de:Kormoran (Art) et:Kormoran el:Κορμοράνος es:Phalacrocorax carbo eo:Granda kormorano eu:Ubarroi fr:Grand Cormoran fy:Ielgoes hr:Veliki vranac it:Phalacrocorax carbo lv:Jūras krauklis lt:Didysis kormoranas hu:Nagy kárókatona ml:നീര്‍ക്കാക്ക mi:Kawau ms:Burung Dendang Air nl:Aalscholver ja:カワウ no:Storskarv nn:Storskarv pl:Kormoran czarny pt:Corvo-marinho-de-faces-brancas ru:Большой баклан sk:Kormorán veľký sl:Veliki kormoran fi:Merimetso sv:Storskarv uk:Великий баклан zh:普通鸕鶿