 | location = Studio City, California, U.S. | occupation = film director, screenwriter, producer & actor | yearsactive = 1988 - present | domesticpartner = Fiona AppleMaya Rudolph | spouse = | children = Pearl Bailey Anderson | website = | awards = Golden Berlin Bear1999 Magnolia  Silver Bear for Best Director2007 There Will Be Blood  BSFC Award for Best New Filmmaker1997 Boogie Nights ; Hard Eight  Best Director Award (Cannes Film Festival)2002 Punch-Drunk Love  FFCC Award for Best Film1999 Magnolia  KCFCC Award for Best Director2007 There Will Be Blood  KCFCC Award for Best Film2007 There Will Be Blood  LAFCA Award for Best Director2007 There Will Be Blood  LAFCA Award for Best Film2007 There Will Be Blood  NSFC Award for Best Director2007 There Will Be Blood  NSFC Award for Best Film2007 There Will Be Blood  SDFCS Award for Best Director2007 There Will Be Blood  SDFCS Award for Best Adapted Screenplay2007 There Will Be Blood  Paul Thomas Anderson (born June 26, 1970)paul thomas anderson ::, Cigarettes and red vines. accessed April 24, 2006. is a five-time Academy Award-nominated American filmmaker.BiographyEarly lifeAnderson was born in Studio City, California, the son of Bonnie (née Gough) and Ernie Anderson, who was an actor, the voice of the American Broadcasting Company, and a Cleveland television late-night horror movie host known as "Ghoulardi".Paul Thomas Anderson Biography (1970-)&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; Anderson grew up in the San Fernando Valley. He attended a number of schools, including Buckley in Sherman Oaks, John Thomas Dye School, Campbell Hall School, Cushing Academy and Montclair Prep. He attended New York University, but dropped out after two days.Paul Thomas Anderson - Biography&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;CareerAnderson was involved in filmmaking at a young age. As a high school student, he made the 30-minute mockumentary The Dirk Diggler Story (1988), about a well-endowed male porn star (inspired by "Big" John Holmes, who also served a major inspiration for Boogie Nights).After a brief stint as an English major at Emerson College and an even shorter time at New York University, Anderson began his career as a production assistant on television movies, music videos and game shows in Los Angeles and New York. He later made Cigarettes & Coffee (1992), a short with five vignettes set in a diner (not to be confused with Jim Jarmusch's Coffee and Cigarettes.) The film was screened at the 1993 Sundance Festival, where it received considerable acclaim. In a few years, Anderson made his first full-length feature, Sydney, which was retitled Hard Eight (1996).Anderson's breakout film Boogie Nights, revisiting his Dirk Diggler character in a full-length major motion picture, was released on October 10, 1997 to critical and commercial success. It was was one of the best-reviewed films of the yearhttp://www.rottentomatoes.com/top/bestofrt_year.php?year=1997&lt;/ref&gt; and is widely considered one of the finest depictions of the porn film industry. The film revived the career of Burt Reynolds (who was nominated for an Oscar) and launched Mark Wahlberg and Julianne Moore onto the A-list of serious actors.Anderson's next film was the ensemble piece Magnolia (1999), which tells the story of the peculiar interaction among the lives of several individuals during a single day in the San Fernando Valley, California. Interweaving nine separate yet connected storylines, Magnolia featured many intricately blocked extra-long shots, in a style quite distinct from that of mainstream Hollywood films. Magnolia was featured on over 150 critics top 10 lists of 1999, and received three Academy Award nominations, for Best Actor in a Supporting Role (Tom Cruise), Best Original Song and Best Original Screenplay.Anderson returned with the comedy/romance feature Punch-Drunk Love (2002), starring Adam Sandler. The story centers around a beleaguered small-business owner embarking on a romantic journey with a mysterious woman (Emily Watson). Sandler won positive reviews for his role in his first major departure from the mainstream comedies which made him a star; Roger Ebert wrote that "Sandler, liberated from the constraints of formula, reveals unexpected depths as an actor. Watching this film, you can imagine him in Dennis Hopper roles. He has darkness, obsession and power.":: rogerebert.com :: Reviews :: Punch-Drunk Love (xhtml)&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; The film earned only $17 million despite a $25 million budget.Anderson's latest film, There Will Be Blood, was a loose adaptation of the Upton Sinclair novel Oil!. The budget of the film was $25 million, and it gained $40 million in sales. It starred Daniel Day-Lewis, who won an Oscar for Best Leading Actor for his role, as well as Paul Dano who received a BAFTA nomination for Best Supporting Actor. Anderson was nominated for Best Director from the Directors Guild of America. The film also received eight Academy Award nominations, tying with No Country For Old Men for the most nominations. Anderson received nominations for Best Picture, Best Director and Best Adapted Screenplay, losing all three to the Coen Brothers for the above mentioned film.Film style, themes, and trademarksAnderson is known for films with large ensemble casts and interweaving storylines, as in the case of Boogie Nights (1997) and Magnolia (1999). Anderson is a member of the first generation of "VCR filmmakers," much like directors Quentin Tarantino, Richard Linklater, and Kevin Smith, who learned the craft not in film schools, but by viewing thousands of movies on video.Among the themes dealt with in Anderson's films are familial relationships, divine fate, the serendipitous nature of love, and the role of contemporary media. Anderson stresses the interconnections among his characters as volatile circumstances affect their fragile lives. Anderson's stylistic trademarks include logistically difficult steadicam-based long takes (such as the three-minute opening shot in Boogie Nights), often with bombastic use of sound and music.In addition to films, Anderson has directed several music videos, including several Fiona Apple pieces. Anderson was a standby director for Robert Altman's A Prairie Home Companion for insurance purposes, as Altman was 80 years old at the time. Anderson was not formally credited in the film, but receives a "Special thanks to ..." toward the end of the closing credits.Lake Wobegon Goes Hollywood (or Is It Vice Versa?), With a Pretty Good Cast - New York Times&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Boogie Nights starring Mark Wahlberg directed by PT Anderson&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;His production company is named after his father's "Ghoulardi" late-night Cleveland television show host character.Personal lifeAnderson and singer Fiona Apple had a relationship for several years; she appears with him in the making-of video diary on the DVD of the film Magnolia. Anderson is currently in a relationship with former Saturday Night Live cast member Maya Rudolph. They live in both Los Angeles and New York City and have a daughter, Pearl Bailey Anderson, born on October 15, 2005.Awards and nominations'''Academy Awards:1997: Best Screenplay - Original (Boogie Nights, nominee)1999: Best Screenplay - Original (Magnolia, nominee)2008: Best Director (There Will Be Blood, nominee)2008: Best Picture (There Will Be Blood, nominee)2008: Best Screenplay - Adapted (There Will Be Blood, nominee)'''BAFTA Awards:1997: Best Screenplay - Original (Boogie Nights, nominee)2007: Best Director (There Will Be Blood, nominee)2007: Best Film (There Will Be Blood, nominee)2007: Best Screenplay - Adapted (There Will Be Blood, nominee)'''Berlin Film Festival:2000: Golden Bear (Magnolia, winner)2008: Silver Bear for Best Director (There Will Be Blood, winner)2008: Golden Bear (There Will Be Blood, nominee)'''Cannes Film Festival:2002: Best Director (Punch-Drunk Love, winner)2002: Golden Palm (Punch-Drunk Love, nominee)'''Directors Guild of America:2007: Outstanding Directorial Achievement - Motion Pictures (There Will Be Blood, nominee)'''Writers Guild of America:1997: Best Screenplay - Original (Boogie Nights, nominee)1999: Best Screenplay - Original (Magnolia, nominee)2007: Best Screenplay - Adapted (There Will Be Blood, nominee)FilmographyFeature filmsHard Eight (also known as Sydney) (1996)Boogie Nights (1997)Magnolia (1999)Punch-Drunk Love (2002)There Will Be Blood (2007)Short filmsThe Dirk Diggler Story (1987)Cigarettes and Coffee (1993)Flagpole Special (1998)Couch (2002)Music videos"Try" by Michael Penn (1997)"Across the Universe" by Fiona Apple (1998)"Fast as You Can" by Fiona Apple (1999)"Save Me" by Aimee Mann (1999)"Limp" by Fiona Apple (2000)"Paper Bag" by Fiona Apple (2000)"Here We Go" by Jon Brion (2002)ReferencesExternal linksCigarettes and Red Vines - The P.T. Anderson web resourceJan. 2008 interview with L.A. Weekly Interview at The Onion A.V. Club  |DATE OF DEATH= |PLACE OF DEATH=   Category:1970 births Category:American film directors Category:American screenwriters Category:Living people Category:New York University alumni Category:People from Los Angeles County Category:People from the San Fernando Valleyar:بول توماس أندرسون da:Paul Thomas Anderson de:Paul Thomas Anderson es:Paul Thomas Anderson fi:Paul Thomas Anderson fr:Paul Thomas Anderson he:פול תומאס אנדרסון it:Paul Thomas Anderson ja:ポール・トーマス・アンダーソン nl:Paul Thomas Anderson no:Paul Thomas Anderson pl:Paul Thomas Anderson pt:Paul Thomas Anderson ro:Paul Thomas Anderson ru:Андерсон, Пол Томас sv:Paul Thomas Anderson tr:Paul Thomas Anderson zh:保羅·湯瑪斯·安德森