 | frequently_updated = yes | programming language = C | operating system = Cross-platform(not Win9x, later Windows versions only) | language = | genre = Spreadsheet | license = GPL | website = gnome.org/projects/gnumeric/  Gnumeric is a free spreadsheet program that is part of the GNOME desktop and has Windows installers available. It is intended to be a free replacement for proprietary spreadsheet programs such as Microsoft Excel, which it broadly and openly emulates. Gnumeric was created and developed by Miguel de Icaza, but he has since moved on to other projects. The current maintainer is Jody Goldberg.Gnumeric has the ability to import and export data in several file formats, including CSV, Microsoft Excel, HTML, LaTeX, Lotus 1-2-3, OpenDocument and Quattro Pro; its native format is the Gnumeric file format (.gnm or .gnumeric), an XML file compressed with gzip.[http://www.gnome.org/projects/gnumeric/doc/file-format-gnumeric.shtml Gnumeric XML File Format] from The Gnumeric Manual. It includes all of the spreadsheet functions of the North American edition of Microsoft Excel and many functions unique to Gnumeric. Pivot tables and conditional formatting are not yet supported but are planned for future versions.Gnumeric's accuracy“Fixing Statistical Errors in Spreadsheet Software: The Cases of Gnumeric and Excel”, B. D. McCullough, 2004 (http://www.csdassn.org/software_reports/gnumeric.pdf). (The most recent versions given a full analysis in this freely-available report are Microsoft Excel XP and Gnumeric 1.1.2., and the author has more-limited data on then-new Excel 2003). “On the accuracy of statistical procedures in Microsoft Excel 2003”, B. D. McCullough, 2005 Computational Statistics & Data Analysis Volume 49, Issue 4, 15 June 2005, Pages 1244-1252. In this journal article, after a more complete analysis of Excel 2003, McCullough concludes that "Excel 2003 is an improvement over previous versions, but not enough has been done that its use for statistical purposes can be recommended." has helped it to establish a niche among people using it for statistical analysis and other scientific tasks. For improving the accuracy of Gnumeric, the developers are cooperating with the R Project.Gnumeric has a different interface for the creation and editing of graphs than the competing software. For editing a graph, Gnumeric displays a window where all the elements of the graph are listed. Other spreadsheet programs typically require the user to select the individual elements of the graph in the graph itself in order to edit them.Gnumeric version 1.0 was released December 31 2001. The current stable release is version 1.8.x, the first to have basic Microsoft Office Open XML support.ReferencesSee alsoGNOME OfficeEditGrid - an online spreadsheet which uses Gnumeric as its back-endList of spreadsheetsComparison of spreadsheetsExternal linksOfficial siteGNOMEDesktop.org: Gnumeric news feedThe Gnumeric file formatDesktopLinux.com interviews Gnumeric project leader Jody GoldbergOpen Mag interviews Jody Goldberg on GnumericLinux Productivity Magazine: A full issue on Gnumeric  Category:Spreadsheet software Category:Domain-specific programming languages Category:GNOME Category:Free spreadsheet software Category:Free software programmed in C Category:Numerical programming languages Category:Plotting software Category:Cross-platform softwarecs:Gnumeric da:Gnumeric de:Gnumeric es:Gnumeric fr:Gnumeric id:Gnumeric it:Gnumeric hu:Gnumeric nl:Gnumeric ja:Gnumeric no:Gnumeric pl:Gnumeric pt:Gnumeric ru:Gnumeric fi:Gnumeric sv:Gnumeric uk:Gnumeric zh-yue:Gnumeric zh:Gnumeric