  |blank1_name = GNIS feature ID |blank1_info = 1307240 |footnotes = |  Chattanooga, "the Scenic City", is the fourth-largest city in Tennessee (after Memphis, Nashville, and Knoxville), and the seat of Hamilton County, in the United States of America. It is located in southeast Tennessee on Chickamauga and Nickajack Lake, which are both part of the Tennessee River, near the border of Georgia, and at the junction of three interstate highways, I-24, I-75, and I-59.The city (downtown elevation approximately 685 feet), which lies at the transition between the ridge-and-valley portion of the Appalachian Mountains and the Cumberland Plateau, is surrounded by mountains and ridges.HistoryThe first inhabitants of the Chattanooga area were Native American Indians with sites dating back to the Upper Paleolithic period, showing continuous occupation through the Archaic, Woodland, Mississippian (900-1650 AD), Muskogean and Cherokee (1776 - 1838 AD) periods.Chief John Ross has been quoted as stating that Chattanooga was Cherokee for 'The Big Catch' because of the fishing on the river. In the 1875 publication 'History of the Army of the Cumberland' by Thomas Budd Van Horne and Edward Ruger on page 407 this is related:"Historians have made effort to transmit to the future the significance of the names which distinguish the natural features around Chattanooga. It is no pleasant task to leave groundless the many pretty conceits which have so long passed for facts; but he who would write the truth, must not hesitate to dissipate a myth or disclose a false hypothesis. With only occasional allusion to the various interpretations of Cherokee names, which have so long been accepted as true, their actual meaning, as derived from John Ross, the celebrated Cherokee chief, and from Lewis Ross, his brother, are here given. "Chattanooga," originally was the name of a small Indian hamlet, situated near the base of Lookout Mountain, on the bank of Chattanooga creek. It means, in the Cherokee language, " to draw fish out of water," and hence was applied to the collection of huts, which were occupied by Indian fishermen. The humble hamlet disappeared, and its name, at first suggestive and appropriate, was inherited by the town of the white man, with meaningless application. A somewhat similar name was applied by the Cherokees to the cliffs, rising boldly from the river above the town, which was derived from "Clanoowah," the name of a warlike but diminutive hawk, which was supposed to embody the spirit of the tribe. These cliffs were the favorite nesting- place of the bird, and hence a name was given which expressed this fact, and which, perhaps, has suggested the myth, that 'Chattanooga' means 'eagle's nest.'"The earliest Cherokee occupation dates from Dragging Canoe, who in 1776 separated himself and moved downriver from the main tribe to establish Native American resistance (see Chickamauga Wars) to European settlement in the southeastern United States. Occupation of the area by members of the Cherokee Nation dates from 1816 with the establishment of Ross's Landing by later tribal chief John Ross and ended with the forced relocation of Native American Indians from southeastern U.S. states to Oklahoma in 1838. Ross's Landing was one of three large internment camps, or "emigration depots," along the Trail of Tears, the other two being Fort Payne, Alabama and the largest at Fort Cass, Tennessee.is visible in the background.]] During the American Civil War on November 23, 1863, the Third Battle of Chattanooga began when Union forces led by General Ulysses S. Grant reinforced troops at Chattanooga and counterattacked Confederate troops. The next day, the Battle of Lookout Mountain was fought near the town. These were followed the next spring by the Atlanta Campaign, beginning just over the nearby state line in Georgia and moving southeastward.After the war ended, the city became a major railroad hub and industrial and manufacturing center. By the 1930s it was known as the "Dynamo of Dixie," and even inspired the 1941 Glenn Miller big-band swing song "Chattanooga Choo Choo." But the same mountains that provided Chattanooga's scenic backdrop became shrouded by the industrial pollutants that they trapped and held over the community. In 1969, the federal government declared that Chattanooga's air was the dirtiest in the nation. But environmental crises were not the only problems plaguing the city. Chattanooga entered the 1980s with serious socioeconomic challenges including job layoffs, a deteriorating city infrastructure, racial tensions and social division.In recent years, private and governmental resources have been invested in transforming the city's tarnished image and to gain recognition for a metamorphosis of its downtown and riverfront areas. An early cornerstone of this project was the restoration of the historic Walnut Street Bridge. The Walnut Street Bridge is the oldest surviving bridge of its kind in the Southeastern United States. Efforts to improve the city include the "21st Century Waterfront Plan" - a $120 million redevelopment of the Chattanooga waterfront and downtown area.  In 1935, as well as from 1993 to 1995, Chattanooga hosted the National Folk Festival.EconomyThe local economy includes a diversified mix of manufacturing and service industries.Notable Chattanooga businesses include BlueCross BlueShield of Tennessee, CBL &amp; Associates, The Chattanooga Bakery, Chattem, the world's first Coca-Cola bottling plant, Coker Tire, Coptix, Covenant Transport, Double Cola, Gordon Biersch Brewery Restaurant Group, Krystal, Litespeed, Miller &amp; Martin, National Model Railroad Association, Olan Mills, Inc., Republic Parking System, Rock/Creek, Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA), Tricycle Inc., and Unum. The city also hosts large branch offices of Cigna, AT&amp;T and UBS.Companies that have manufacturing or distribution facilities in the city include DuPont, Rock-Tenn, Plantronics, Domtar Corp., Norfolk Southern, Alco Chemical, Colonial Pipeline and Buzzi Unicem. There is also a Vulcan Materials quarry in the city.On July 15 2008, Volkswagen Group announced plans to build its new production facility in Chattanooga.Volkswagen wants slice of American pie AUSmotive.com The new facility is due to open in 2011.In addition to corporate business interests, there are many retail shops in Chattanooga, including two shopping malls: Northgate Mall in Hixson and Hamilton Place Mall in East Brainerd.Utilitieson the Tennessee River at Chattanooga]] Electric power for most of the city and surrounding area is provided by the city-run Electric Power Board (EPB), which also provides telephone and high-speed internet service to businesses in the downtown area. The TVA operates the nearby Sequoyah Nuclear Power Plant, Chickamauga Dam and the Raccoon Mountain Pumped-Storage Plant all of which provide electricity to the greater Chattanooga area.Natural gas and water are provided by the privately run Chattanooga Gas Company and Tennessee-American Water Company, respectively. In 2005 Mayor Ron Littlefield stated his desire for the city to purchase the Tennessee-American Water Company,, which is being sold in a public offering in 2007. Former Mayor Jon Kinsey attempts to have the city buy control were defeated in court.Comcast is the cable provider for most areas of the city. The incumbent telephone company is AT&amp;T. However, competing phone companies, cellular phones and VoIP are beginning to make inroads. A major interstate fiber optics line operated by AT&amp;T traverses the city, making its way from Atlanta to Cincinnati.Politics, government and lawThe current mayor is Ron Littlefield ®, a long-time city councilman, who was elected in a run-off election in April 2005.The city operates under a charter granted by the state legislature in 1852, as amended. As of 2005, the city operates with a strong mayor system.The city's legislative branch is split up into nine districts, with a council member for each district selected in partisan elections. The current council members are Linda Bennett (District 1), Sally Robinson (District 2), Dan Page (District 3), Jack Benson (District 4), John "Duke" Franklin (District 5), Carol Berz (District 6), Manuel "Manny" Rico (District 7), Leamon Pierce (District 8) and Debbie Gaines (District 9).Within the last ten years the city has won three national awards for outstanding "livability", and 9 Gunther Blue Ribbon Awards for excellence in housing and consolidated planning.City of Chattanooga&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;See also List of Mayors of Chattanooga, Tennessee.EducationPrimary and secondary educationMost of Chattanooga's primary and secondary education is funded by the government. The public schools in Chattanooga (and Hamilton County) fall under the purview of the Hamilton County School System.In addition, the city is home to several well-known private and parochial secondary schools, including Baylor School, McCallie School , Girls Preparatory School, and Notre Dame High School. Chattanooga is also home to Siskin Children's Institute, as well as Chattanooga School for the Arts and Sciences magnet school. Howard was the first public school in the area and was established in 1865.Higher educationThe University of Tennessee at Chattanooga is the second largest campus of the University of Tennessee System with a student population of over 9,558.. Other institutions of higher learning in the area include Chattanooga State Technical Community College, Covenant College, Lee University, the University of the South, Southern Adventist University, Tennessee Temple University and Tennessee Wesleyan College, along with local branches of Miller-Motte Technical College and Virginia College. Chattanooga is home to the Chattanooga branch of the University of Tennessee College of Medicine, which provides medical education to medical students, residents, and other medical professionals in southeast Tennessee through an affiliation with Erlanger Health System.Public libraryAs the name implies, the Chattanooga-Hamilton County Bicentennial Library system has been jointly operated by the city and county governments since 1976. The city was gifted with a Carnegie library in 1904, and the two-story purpose-built marble structure survives to this day at Eighth Street and Georgia Avenue as commercial office space. In 1939, the library moved to Douglas Street and McCallie Avenue and shared the new building with the John Storrs Fletcher Library of the University of Chattanooga. This building is now called Fletcher Hall and houses classrooms and offices for the University. The city library was moved to its third and current location in 1976 at the corner of Tenth and Broad streets.Health careChattanooga's health care sector has three hospital systems. Erlanger Hospital is the area's primary trauma center. Erlanger has been operated by the Chattanooga-Hamilton County Hospital Authority since 1976.Erlanger Board of Trustees&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Parkridge Hospital is located east of downtown in the Glenwood District and is run by Tri-Star Healthcare. Tri-Star also operates East Ridge Medical Center in nearby East Ridge. Also located downtown is Memorial Hospital, operated by Catholic Health Initiatives). In 2004, Memorial was named one of the Top 100 teaching hospitals by Solucient Top Hospitals.Culture and tourismMuseums]] Chattanooga is the home to the Hunter Museum of American Art, a well known art museum. As birthplace of the tow truck, Chattanooga is now home to the International Towing and Recovery Hall of Fame and Museum,The International Towing and Recovery Hall of Fame and Museum&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; as well as another transportation icon at the Tennessee Valley Railroad Museum, the largest operating historic railroad in the south. Other notable museums include the Chattanooga Regional History Museum,Chattanooga Regional History Museum&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; the National Medal of Honor Museum,National Medal of Honor Museum, Chattanooga, Tennessee&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; the Houston Museum,index.html&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; and the Chattanooga African American Museum.Chattanooga African American Museum&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Arts and literatureChattanooga's historic Tivoli Theatre is home to the Chattanooga Symphony and Opera under the direction of Robert BernhardtChattanooga Symphony and Opera: Welcome!&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;. The Chattanooga Theatre Centre offers 15 productions each year in three separate theater programs: the Mainstage, the Circle Theater, and the Youth Theater.Chattanooga Theatre Centre&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; Another popular performance venue is Memorial Auditorium. Chattanooga is host to several writing conferences, including the Conference on Southern Literature the Festival of Writers, both sponsored by the Arts & Education Council of ChattanoogaThe Arts &amp; Education Council of Chattanooga&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;.Tourist attractionsChattanooga touts its many tourist attractions, including the Tennessee Aquarium, caverns, and heavy development along and across the Tennessee River. In the downtown area are the Chattanooga Choo Choo Holiday Inn Hotel that is a renovated train station with the largest HO model train layout in the United States, the Creative Discovery Museum (a hands-on children's museum dedicated to science, art, and music), an IMAX 3D Theatre, and the newly expanded Hunter Museum of American Art. Along the river itself is the Tennessee Riverwalk, a  handicapped accessible greenway trail. Not far from the downtown area is the Chattanooga Zoo at Warner Park.The red-and-black painted "See Rock City" barns along highways in the Southeast are remnants of a now classic Americana tourism campaign to attract visitors to the Rock City tourist attraction in nearby Lookout Mountain, Georgia. The mountain is also home to Ruby Falls, Craven's House and the Lookout Mountain Incline Railway, a steep funicular railway which rises from historic St. Elmo to the top of the mountain to drop passengers off at the National Park Service's Point Park and The Battles for Chattanooga Museum (formerly known as Confederama), a diorama that details the Battle of Chattanooga. From the military park, visitors can enjoy the panoramic views of Moccasin Bend and the Chattanooga skyline from the mountain's famous "point" or from vantage points along the well-designated trail system.Near Chattanooga, the Raccoon Mountain Reservoir, Raccoon Mountain Caverns and Reflection Riding Arboretum and Botanical Garden boast a number of outdoor and family fun opportunities. Other arboretums include Bonny Oaks Arboretum, Cherokee Arboretum at Audubon Acres and Cherokee Trail Arboretum. The Ocoee River, host to a number of events from the 1996 Atlanta Olympics, features rafting, kayaking, camping and hiking. Also just outside Chattanooga is the Lake Winnepesaukah amusement park. The Cumberland Trail begins in Signal Mountain, just outside of Chattanooga.Festivals and eventsChattanooga hosts the Riverbend Festival, an annual nine-day music festival held in June in the downtown area. One of the most popular events of the festival is the Bessie Smith Strut, a one night showcase of blues and jazz music named for the city's most noted blues singer. The annual "Southern Brewer's Festival" and the "River Roast" festival celebrate such traditional Southern staples as beer and barbecue, while new events, such as GoFest!GoFest!, "Between the Bridges" wakeboard competition and TalespinTalespin seek new audiences. Nightfallhttp://www.downtownchattanooga.org is the free weekly concert series in Miller Plaza on Friday nights that continues to bring an eclectic mix of rock, blues, jazz, reggae, zydeco, funk, bluegrass, and folk to downtown Chattanooga from Memorial Day until the end of September. The Chattanooga Market features events all year round as part of the Sunday at the Southside calendar of events including an Oktoberfest in mid October. Back Row Films is a city-wide celebration of film co-sponsored by the Hunter Museum of American Art, the Arts & Education Council and UTC.The Back Row Film SeriesThe Chattanooga Dulcimer Festival is held each June. The festival includes two and a half days of workshops for mountain dulcimer, hammered dulcimer, auto harp, and a few other instruments. The Friday and Saturday night concerts feature champion performers from across the nation. A large vending area offers visitors an opportunity to meet instrument builders and musicians. More information can be found on the website http://www.chattanoogadulcimerfestival.com.SportsChattanooga is the home of NCAA Division I AA Football Championship game, held at Max Finley Stadium, south of downtown.The Chattanooga Lookouts, a Class AA Southern League baseball team affiliated with the Los Angeles Dodgers, boast a loyal following and respectable participation in season-end playoffs. Games take center stage at the downtown AT&amp;T Field with tickets starting at only $4.Outdoor sportsDue to its location at the junction of the Cumberland Plateau and the southern Appalachians, Chattanooga has become a haven for outdoor sports such as hunting, fishing, trail running, road running, adventure racing, rock climbing, mountain biking and road biking. The city boasts a number of outdoor clubs: Scenic City Velo, SORBA-Chattanooga, The Wilderness Trail Running Association, and The Chattanooga Track Club. The city also funds Outdoor Chattanooga, an organization focused on promoting outdoor recreation. The city recently hired its first-ever bicycle coordinator to promote bicycling for transportation, recreation and active living.DemographicsAs of the census of 2000, there were 155,554 people, 65,499 households, and 39,626 families residing in the city. The population density was 1,150.5 people per square mile (444.2/km²). There were 72,108 housing units at an average density of 533.3/sq&nbsp;mi (205.9/km²). The racial makeup of the city was 59.71% White, 36.06% Black, or African American, 0.29% Native American, 1.54% Asian, 0.11% Pacific Islander, 1.01% from other races, and 1.30% from two or more races. 2.11% of the population were Hispanic or Latino of any race. The 2006 revised estimated population was 168,293 which is an 8.4% percent increase over the original 2006 estimate.There were 65,499 households out of which 25.3% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 39.2% were married couples living together, 17.3% had a female householder with no husband present, and 39.5% were non-families. 33.5% of all households were made up of individuals and 11.6% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.29 and the average family size was 2.92.In the city the population was spread out with 22.4% under the age of 18, 10.8% from 18 to 24, 28.8% from 25 to 44, 22.8% from 45 to 64, and 15.2% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 37 years. For every 100 females there were 89.3 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 85.2 males.The median income for a household in the city was $32,006, and the median income for a family was $41,318. Males had a median income of $31,375 versus $23,267 for females. The per capita income for the city was $19,689. About 14.0% of families and 17.9% of the population were below the poverty line, including 27.0% of those under age 18 and 13.8% of those age 65 or over.Chattanooga's Metropolitan Statistical Area, which includes Hamilton, Marion, and Sequatchie counties in Tennessee and Catoosa, Dade, and Walker counties in Georgia, had an estimated population of 496,704 in 2006. The Chattanooga-Cleveland-Athens Combined Statistical Area which also includes Bradley, Polk, and McMinn Counties in Tennessee had an estimated population of 658,201 in 2006.Geography and climateThe city is located at latitude 35°4' North, longitude 85°15' West.According to the United States Census Bureau, the city has a total area of 143.2&nbsp;square miles (370.8&nbsp;km²), of which, 135.2&nbsp;square miles (350.2&nbsp;km²) of it is land and 8.0&nbsp;square miles (20.6&nbsp;km²) of it (5.56%) is water.The most prominent natural features in and around Chattanooga are the Tennessee River and the surrounding highlands. The city is nestled between the southwestern Ridge-and-valley Appalachians and the foot of Walden's Ridge; the river separates the ridge from the western side of downtown. Several miles east, the city is bisected by Missionary Ridge, which hosted an important battle of the American Civil War.The Tennessee River is impounded by the TVA's Chickamauga Dam north of the downtown area. Five automobile bridges, one railroad trestle, and one pedestrian bridge cross the river.Transport is served by Interstate 75 to Atlanta and Knoxville, Interstate 24 to Nashville, and Interstate 59 to Birmingham. Chattanooga and the surrounding area is served by Chattanooga Metropolitan Airport. Rail freight is offered by CSX to Atlanta and Nashville, and Norfolk Southern to Atlanta, Birmingham, Cincinnati, Knoxville and Memphis.Neighborhoods of ChattanoogaIn addition to the restoration of downtown, many of Chattanooga's neighborhoods have experienced a rebirth of their own. Chattanooga has many buildings on the National Register of Historic Places, including three neighborhoods: Fort Wood, Ferger Place, and St. Elmo.Important suburbsClimateMonthly Normal and Record High and Low TemperaturesMonthJanFebMarAprMayJunJulAugSepOctNovDecRec High °F7879879399104109105102948478Norm High °F495462727986908983726152Norm Low °F303340475665696862494033Rec Low °F-1018253441515036224-2Precip (in)5.44.856.194.234.283.994.733.594.313.264.884.81Source: USTravelWeather.com http://www.ustravelweather.com/weather-tennessee/chattanooga-weather.aspTransportationConsidered to be a gateway to the Deep South, Chattanooga's transportation infrastructure has developed into a complex and intricate system of railroads, streets, airports and waterways.Principal highwaysI-24I-75US-27 North (formerly I-124)State Route 153See also List of Tennessee state highwaysMajor surface routesBrainerd Road/Lee Highway (U.S. 11)/(U.S. 64)Broad StreetCummings Highway (US 41)/(US 72)Dayton Blvd (U.S. 27 North)East Brainerd RoadGeorgia AvenueHixson PikeMain Street (U.S. 76)McCallie AvenueRinggold RoadRossville Boulevard (U.S. 27)Signal Mountain Boulevard (U.S. 127/Corridor J)TunnelsBachmann Tubes, which carry Ringgold Road into the neighboring city of East Ridge.Missionary Ridge Tunnels (also unofficially known as McCallie Tunnels), which carry McCallie and Bailey Avenues through Missionary Ridge where the route continues as Brainerd Road.Stringer's Ridge Tunnel, which carries Cherokee Boulevard through Stringer's Ridge where the route continues as Dayton Boulevard.Wilcox Tunnel, which carries Wilcox Boulevard through Missionary Ridge and connects to Shallowford Road.Public transitThe city is served by a publicly run bus company, the Chattanooga Area Regional Transportation Authority. CARTA operates 17 routes, including a free electric shuttle service in the downtown area and free wireless internet on certain "smartbuses".http://www.chattanoogan.com/articles/article_113678.asp Chattanoogan.com, September 19, 2007..Railroad lines]] ]] Despite a new emphasis on the technology and service sectors, Chattanooga maintains ties to the past and still serves as a major freight hub with Norfolk Southern (NS) and CSX running trains on their own (and each other's) lines. The Norfolk Southern Railway's enormous DeButts Yard is just east of downtown, Shipp's Yard and CSX's Wauhatchie Yard are southwest of the city. Indeed, the two railroad companies are among the largest individual landowners in the city (the Federal Government is another). The Tennessee Valley Railroad Museum, the largest historic operating railroad in the South, and the Chattooga and Chickamauga Railway also provides railroad service in Chattanooga.Since both NS and CSX both run through Chattanooga, here are the lines that run through the town (the AAR codes are used for the following railroads: NS for Norfolk Southern, CSXT for CSX Transportation, TNVR for Tennessee Valley Railroad Museum, and CCKY for Chattooga and Chickamauga Railway):CSXT - Western &amp; Atlantic Subdivision (Chattanooga to Atlanta, Georgia)Chattanooga Subdivision (Chattanooga to Nashville, Tennessee on former NC&StL trackage)NS - Cincinnati, New Orleans and Texas Pacific, aka the Queen and Crescent Route (Chattanooga to Cincinnati, Ohio via Lexington, Kentucky)Alabama Great Southern (Chattanooga to New Orleans, Louisiana via Birmingham, Alabama)Georgia Division (Chattanooga to Atlanta)Tennessee Division (Chattanooga to Knoxville, Tennessee)Chattanooga Traction CompanyNorth Chattanooga to Signal MountainDry Valley Line (Red Bank to Lupton City)TNVR - East Chattanooga to Grand Junction (3 miles)East Chattanooga Belt Line Railroad (from Debutts Yard and 17th Street, across to Holtzclaw Avenue and East Chattanooga, used by TNVR)CCKY - formerly the Tennessee Alabama &amp; Georgia line (Chattanooga to Hedges, Georgia)formerly the Central of Georgia line (Chattanooga to Lyerly, Georgia)Also, the Incline Railway, as well as being a tourist attraction, is sometimes used for commuting by Lookout Mountain residents, particularly during wintry weather, when travelling up and down the mountain could be very dangerous.Despite the relatively high level of freight rail activity, there is no passenger rail service in the city for either commuters or long-distance travelers.BridgesBeing bisected by a major waterway, Chattanooga has several large bridges over the Tennessee River. They are, from west to east:P.R. Olgiati Bridge – Named for a former mayor P.R. Olgiati, this bridge carries &quot;27&quot; from downtown to Dayton, Tennessee and points northward.Market Street Bridge - Officially called the John Ross Bridge. It is a bascule span which is a type of drawbridge. The bridge was completed in 1917 for the then-astronomical sum of USD$1,000,000. Having stood for decades since its last major overhaul, the Tennessee Department of Transportation declared it unsafe in late 2004. The bridge was closed in 2005 for a long-overdue renovation and reopened on August 4 2007.Market Street Bridge Project // What's Happening&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Walnut Street Bridge – Also known as "The Walking Bridge", it is one of the centerpieces of Chattanooga's urban renewal, and is the second longest pedestrian bridge in the nation. Over 115 years old, the bridge was declared unsafe and closed to traffic in 1978. It was on the verge of being demolished in the late 1980s when public demand led to it being restored as a pedestrian-only span that opened in 1993.Veterans Memorial Bridge – Installed in the mid 1980s, this structure has helped commuters from Hixson, Lupton City and other northern areas reach downtown quickly.C.B. Robinson Bridge – This route carries Dupont Parkway from Amnicola Highway to Hixson Pike and Route 153.Tennessee River Railroad Bridge – Also called "Tennbridge," this truss bridge with a vertical lift carries the Cincinnati, New Orleans and Texas Pacific Railway over the river and is a popular railfan area.Wilkes T. Thrasher Bridge – Carries Highway 153 over Chickamauga Dam.Air TravelChattanooga is served by Chattanooga Metropolitan Airport at Lovell Field. Located east of the city, Lovell Field is served by several regional and national airlines, offering non-stop service to various domestic destinations. Atlanta's Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport (ATL) is 125 miles southeast of Chattanooga, the Nashville International Airport (BNA) is 133 miles northwest of Chattanooga, and the Birmingham International Airport (BHM) is 145 miles southwest of the city. Certain flights to and from Chattanooga have been known to be cancelled due to a lack of passengers on a particular flight so it is important to know of other regional options.Media and communicationsThe city of Chattanooga is served by numerous local, regional and national media outlets which reach approximately 1,000,000 people in four states: Tennessee, Alabama, Georgia and North Carolina.NewspapersThe Chattanooga Times Free Press, the area's only daily newspaper, is published each morning. It was effectively formed in 1999 from two papers that had been bitter rivals for half a century. The Times was once owned by Adolph Ochs, who then also bought the New York Times. The Times had been the morning paper with a generally liberal editorial page. The News-Free Press, whose name was the result of an earlier merger, was an afternoon daily and its editorials were more conservative than those in the Times. In 1999, the Free Press was bought by an Arkansas company, WEHCO Media, publisher of the Arkansas Democrat-Gazette, which then bought The Times from the Ochs heirs. Though the two newspapers have merged, the new paper runs both editorial pages, a liberal page and a conservative page, the liberal page being on the left side and the conservative one on the right side, which is unique among all major newspapers in the United States.Free alternative weekly papers in the city include The Chattanooga Pulse and The Enigma.RadioRadio stations in Chattanooga include:AM---WUUS 980 AM - Oldies / U 97.3/99.3 (Simulcast with WUUS-FM 97.3) (Licensed to Rossville, GA)WFLI 1070 AM - Southern gospel (Licensed to Lookout Mountain, TN)WGOW 1150 AM - News/talk / NewsRadio 1150 http://wgow.com/amWNOO 1260 AM - Urban gospel and MotownWDOD 1310 AM - Oldies / Ruby 1310WDEF-AM 1370 AM - Sports/talk/ 1370 ESPN Radio http://espn.go.com affiliate.FM---WUTC 88.1 FM - NPR http://www.npr.org/Mixed music / Music 88. Operated by UTC. First and only station in Chattanooga to be broadcasting in HD Radio. (Licensed to Chattanooga, TN)W203AZ 88.5 FM - Religious/CSN international http://www.csnradio.comWMBW 88.9 FM - Christian / Moody Radio For The Heart Of The Southeast. Owned and operated by Moody Bible Institute. (Licensed to Chattanooga, TN)WDYN 89.7 FM - Southern Gospel / WDYN Radio http://www.wdyn.com Operated By Tennessee Temple University. (Licensed to Chattanooga, TN)W211BG 90.1 FM - Religious http://www.klove.com (Licensed to Walden, TN)WSMC 90.5 FM - Classical/NPR/PRIhttp://www.wsmc.org Operated by Southern Adventist University. (Licensed to Collegedale, TN)WAWL 91.5 FM - College alternative / 91.5 The Wawlhttp://www.wawl.org Operated by Chattanooga State Technical Community College. (licensed to Red Bank, TN)WDEF-FM 92.3 FM - Adult contemporary / Sunny 92.3http://www.sunny923.com (Licensed to Chattanooga, TN)WMPZ 93.5 FM - Urban oldies / Groove 93http://www.groove93.com (Licensed to Harrison, TN)WJTT 94.3 FM - Urban contemporary / Power 94 http://www.power94.com (Licensed to Red Bank, TN)WAAK 94.7 FM - Variety http://waak.catt.com/ (Low power station licensed to Boynton/Ringgold, GA)WHJK 95.3 FM - Variety / Jack FM http://www.953jackfm.com (Licensed to Cleveland, TN)WDOD 96.5 FM - Top 40 stationhttp://www.965themountain.com/ (Licensed to Chattanooga, TN)WUUS 97.3, & 99.3 FM - Classic Hits / You 97.3/99.3 (Licensed to South Pittsburg, TN)WLND 98.1 FM - Classic country / The Legend http://www.thelegendonline.com (Licensed to Signal Mountain, TN)WOOP 99.9 FM, Classic country, old-time gospel, bluegrass and mountain music. http://www.woopfm.com/ Operated by the Traditional Music Resource Center, (Licensed to Cleveland, TN)WUSY 100.7 FM, Contemporary country / US101 http://www.us101country.com Multiple winner of the CMA station of the year (Licensed to Cleveland, TN)WOCE 101.9 FM, Spanish (Licensed to Ringgold, GA)WGOW 102.3 FM, http://www.wgow.com/fm News/talk (Licensed to Soddy-Daisy, TN)WBDX 102.7 FM, http://www.j103.com Contemporary Christian (Licensed to Trenton, GA)WLLJ 103.1 FM, http://www.j103.com Contemporary Christian (Simulcast with WBDX 102.7) (Licensed to Etowah, TN)WURV 103.7 FM, (Licensed to Walden, TN)WALV-FM 104.9 FM, http://www.alive105.com Adult CHR (Licensed to Dayton, TN)WRXR 105.5 FM, http://www.rock105.net Active rock (Licensed to Rossville, GA)WSKZ 106.5 FM, http://www.kz106.com Classic rockWOGT 107.9 FM, http://www.1079theduke.com Contemporary country. (Licensed to East Ridge, TN)TelevisionChattanooga television stations, including:WRCB channel 3, NBC affiliate - http://www.wrcbtv.com (DT 13 / cable 4)WOOT-LP channel 6, independent (formerly UPN) (silent)WTVC channel 9, ABC affiliate - http://www.newschannel9.com (DT35 / cable 10)WDEF channel 12, CBS affiliate - http://www.wdef.com (DT47 / cable 13)WNGH channel 18, GPB affiliate - http://www.gpb.org (DT 33 / cable 12)WELF channel 23, TBN affiliate - http://www.tbn.org (DT 16 / cable 9)23.1 TBN23.2 The Church Channel23.3 JCTV23.4 TBN Enlace USA23.5 Smile of a ChildW26BE channel 26, 3ABN affiliate - http://www.3abn.org (Not on cable in Chattanooga)WYHB-CA channel 39, America One affiliate - http://www.wyhbtv39.com (Not on Cable in Chattanooga)WTCI channel 45, PBS member station http://www.wtci-tv45.com (DT29 / cable 5)WFLI-TV channel 53, The CW Television Network affiliate http://www.thecwchattanooga.com (Formerly UPN and The WB) (DT 42 / cable 6)WDSI channel 61, FOX affiliate - http://www.fox61tv.com (DT 40 / cable 11)See also List of television stations in Tennessee, List of television stations in GeorgiaNotable residentsThe following people were born, live, or have lived in Chattanooga:Sister citiesChattanooga has five sister cities, as designated by Sister Cities International, Inc. (SCI): Giv'atayim, Israel Hamm, Germany Nizhny Tagil, Russia Wuxi, China Gangneung, South KoreaChattanooga also has two twinning cities, including  Ascoli Piceno, Italy and  Swindon, United KingdomOther communitiesOther places named Chattanooga include Chattanooga, Oklahoma and a community named Chattanooga in Mercer County, Ohio.See alsoChattanooga, Rome and Columbus RailroadChattanooga Choo ChooSilverdale Detention CenterReferencesExternal links 