Sarnen is the capital of the canton of Obwalden situated on the shores of Lake Sarnen (Sarner See), Switzerland. It has a population of just under 10,000 and is surrounded by countryside and mountains. Sarnen is located 20 km south of Lucerne. HistoryStone Age and Bronze Age finds show that the Sarnen valley was inhabited from the earliest times. Over the years Sarnen developed into an important trading center.GeographySarnen is situated at an altitude of 473&nbsp;m on the shore of the idyllic Lake Sarner (Sarner See). Lake Sarner covers approximately an area of 7.5 km². The town is surrounded by mountain chains and a protected bog can be found nearby. The most well-known mountain close to Sarnen is Mount Pilatus with an elevation of 2,132 metres.Sarnen todayThe town of Sarnen has been experiencing steady growth over the past years. It has become more attractive due to its proximity to Lucerne. Many commuters work in Lucerne and use the motorway or railway service to get to work.Among companies active in Sarnen include Sarna Polymer Holding (waterproofing systems for the construction industry), Leister Technologies (heated-air tools) and Nahrin AG (healthy nutrition).TransportationRoadThe motorway A8 passes by Sarnen.RailwaySarnen lies on the Lucerne&mdash;Interlaken line, 23 minutes from Lucerne and 90 minutes from Interlaken. The rail station is situated in the center of the town and serves all major Swiss cities and several international destinations. Trains are operated by Swiss Federal Railways.AirplaneSwitzerland has three major international airports Geneva airport, Zurich airport and Basel airport. Both Basel and Zurich airports lie nearer to Sarnen than Geneva.By road it takes approximately 1 hour 20 minutes from both airports. The distance in kilometres from Basel and Zurich airport are approximately 125 and 90 respectively.Geneva and Zurich airports have built-in railway station. The journey from Zurich takes either 1 h 30 min or 1 h 55 min depending on train connections.Image gallery  Image:sarnen_sarneraa.jpg|the Sarneraa - river that flows through town Image:Sarnen_townhall_with_fountain.jpg|town hall with fountain Image:Sarnen_church.jpg|church Image:sarnen_landenberg.jpg|Landenberg - the castle above Sarnen Image:Sarnen_hospital_and_high_school.jpg|Hospital and Gymnasium (school) Image:Sarnen_library.jpg|Library in the historic Grundacher House Image:Sarnen_view_on_lake_sarnen.jpg|Lake Sarnen External linksSarnen Official site Sarnen TourismLocal companies:Sarna Polymer HoldingNahrin AG Category:Cantonal capitals of Switzerland Category:Cities in Switzerland Category:Municipalities of Obwalden Sarnen (capital)da:Sarnen de:Sarnen es:Sarnen eo:Sarno (Obvaldo) eu:Sarnen fr:Sarnen it:Sarnen nl:Sarnen ja:ザルネン pl:Sarnen pt:Sarnen ro:Sarnen ru:Зарнен simple:Sarnen sr:Сарнен sv:Sarnen uk:Зарнен vo:Sarnen zh:薩爾嫩