 Ficus benjamina, commonly known as the Weeping Fig or Benjamin's Fig, is a species of fig tree, native to south and southeast Asia and Australia. It is the official tree of Bangkok, Thailand. It is a tree reaching 30 m (100 ft) tall in natural conditions, with gracefully drooping branchlets and glossy leaves 6-13 cm (2-5 in) long, oval with an acuminate tip. In its native range, its small fruit are a favorite food of some birds, such as the Superb Fruit-dove, Wompoo Fruit-dove, Pink-spotted Fruit-dove, Ornate Fruit-dove, Orange-bellied Fruit-dove, Torresian Imperial-pigeon, Purple-tailed Imperial-pigeon (Frith et al. 1976).CultivationIn tropical latitudes, the Weeping Fig makes a very large and stately tree for parks and other urban situations, such as wide roads. It is often cultivated for this purpose.It is a very popular house plant in temperate areas, due to its elegant growth and tolerance of poor growing conditions; it does best under bright, sunny conditions but will also tolerate considerable shade. It requires a moderate amount of watering in summer, and only enough to keep it from drying out in the winter. It does not need to be misted. The plant is sensitive to cold and should be protected from strong drafts. When grown indoors, it can grow too large for its situation, and may need drastic pruning or replacing.The leaves are very sensitive to small changes in light. When it is re-located it reacts by dropping many of its leaves and replacing them with new leaves adapted to the new light intensity.. ]] There are numerous cultivars available (e.g. 'Danielle', 'Naomi', 'Exotica', and 'Golden King'). Some cultivars include different patterns of colouration on the leaves, ranging from light green to dark green, and various forms of white variegation.The miniature cultivars, especially 'Too Little', are among the most popular plant for indoor bonsai.Weeping Fig has been shown by NASA to effectively filter indoor air toxins.Destructive rootsThe United States Forest Service http://hort.ufl.edu/trees/FICBENA.pdf in Fact Sheet ST-251 states "Roots grow rapidly invading gardens, growing under and lifting sidewalks, patios, and driveways." They conclude its use in tree form is much too large for residential planting, therefore in these settings, this species should only be used as a hedge or clipped screen.ReferencesFrith, H.J.; Rome, F.H.J.C. & Wolfe, T.O. (1976): Food of fruit-pigeons in New Guinea. Emu 76(2): 49-58.  broken --HTML abstractCategory:Ficus Category:Flora of China Category:Flora of Taiwan Category:Flora of Bhutan Category:Flora of India Category:Flora of Nepal Category:Flora of Cambodia Category:Flora of Laos Category:Flora of Burma Category:Flora of Thailand Category:Flora of Vietnam Category:Flora of Indonesia Category:Flora of Malaysia Category:Flora of Papua New Guinea Category:Flora of the Philippines Category:Rosales of Australia Category:Flora of the Northern Territory Category:Flora of Queensland Category:Flora of the Solomon Islands Category:Bangkok culture Category:Plants used in bonsai Category:Garden plants of Asia Category:Garden plants of Australiade:Birkenfeige es:Ficus benjamina fr:Ficus benjamina ko:벤자민고무나무 id:Beringin it:Ficus benjamina hu:Kislevelű fikusz ms:Pokok Ara Beringin my:ညောင်လန်း nl:Waringin ja:ベンジャミン (植物) no:Bjørkefiken pl:Figowiec benjamina ru:Фикус Бенджамина sq:Ficus benjamina fi:Limoviikuna sv:Benjaminfikus ta:வெள்ளால் Ficus Tree Bonsais - http://bonsaisuperstore.com/items/bonsai-trees/ficus/list.htm