 Sanofi-Aventis (, ), headquartered in Paris, France, is a multinational pharmaceutical company. The company is the world's fourth largest pharmaceutical company. Sanofi-Aventis engages in the research, development, manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceutical products for sale principally in the prescription market, but they also develop over-the-counter medication. Sanofi-Aventis cover 7 major therapeutic areas: cardiovascular, thrombosis, oncology, diabetes, central nervous system, internal medicine and vaccines (with its subsidiary Sanofi Pasteur).Sanofi-Aventis is a full member of the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA).HistorySanofi AventisSanofi Aventis was formed in 2004 when Sanofi-Synthélabo acquired Aventis. In early 2004, Sanofi-Synthélabo made a hostile takeover bid worth €47.8 bn for Aventis. Initially, Aventis rejected the bid because it felt that the bid offered inferior value based on the company's share value. The three-month takeover battle concluded when Sanofi-Synthélabo launched a friendly bid of $54.5 bn in place of the previously rejected hostile bid. French government intervention also played an active role. The French government, desiring what they called a "local solution", put heavy pressure on Sanofi-Synthélabo to raise its bid for Aventis after it became known that Novartis, a Swiss pharmaceutical company, was in the running.Sanofi-SynthélaboSanofi-Synthélabo was formed in 1999 when Sanofi (former subsidiary of Total) merged with Synthélabo (former subsidiary of L'Oréal). The merged company was based in Paris, France.Connaught CampusThe Canadian operations of Sanofi-Aventis began as Connaught Laboratories/Connaught Medical Research Laboratories of the University of Toronto from 1914 to 1972. It was purchased by federal government's Canadian Development Corporation and later privatized. Sold to the French Institut Mérieux in 1989 and renamed Pasteur Merieux Connaught. A series of mergers would follow and the Canada unit was renamed Connaught Campus" of Aventis Pasteur. It is now the Canadian unit of Sanofi Pasteur and part of the Sanofi-Aventis empire.Aventis Aventis was formed in 1999 when Rhône-Poulenc S.A. merged with Hoechst Marion Roussel, which itself was formed from the merger of Hoechst AG with Roussel Uclaf and Marion Merrell Dow. The merged company was based in Schiltigheim, near Strasbourg, France.BusinessManagementJean-François Dehecq, ChairmanGérard Le Fur, CEODehecq has been the General Manager of Sanofi since its creation in 1973.StockholdersStockholders, Sanofi-aventis ownership structure as of February 29, 2008Breakdown of share ownership: 12.64% by Total, 8.65% by L'Oréal, 3.07% treasury shares, 1.24% employees, the remaining 70.40% are publicly traded.Voting rights distribution: 19.55% to Total, 14.72% to L'Oréal, 1.98% to employees, and 63.75% to the public.EarningsFrom Drugs.com28 billion euros= Consolidated net sales 20074,537 M euros = R&D expenditure representing 16.2 % of net salesNearly 100,000 employeesAventis FoundationThe Aventis Foundation, a German charitable trust, was established in 1996 as the Hoechst Foundation with an endowment of €50 million. In 2000, the foundation was renamed the Aventis Foundation subsequent to the 1999 merger of Hoechst and Rhône-Poulenc. The foundation was responsible for sponsoring the Aventis Prizes for Science Books, which celebrate the very best in popular science writing for adults and children, and which have grown to be one of the world's most prestigious non-fiction literary prizes. In 2006, the foundation severed its connection with the prizes and from 2007 they have been known as the Royal Society Prizes for Science Books and are managed by the Royal Society, the UK national academy of science.Company profilesYahoo! Finance - Sanofi-Aventis Company ProfileCollaborative ResearchIn addition to internal research and development activities Sanofi-Aventis is also involved in publicly funded collaborative research projects, with other industrial and academic partners. One example in the area of non-clinical safety assessment is the InnoMed PredTox.Mattes WB (2008), Public consortium efforts in toxicogenomics, Methods Mol Biol. 2008;460:221-38 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18449490 The company is expanding its activities in joint research projects within the framework of the Innovative Medicines Initiative of EFPIA and the European Commission.ReferencesExternal linksOfficial siteAventis Foundationsanofi pasteur - The vaccines business of sanofi-aventis Group Category:Sanofi-Aventis Category:Biotechnology companies Category:Companies of France Category:Pharmaceutical companiesbg:Санофи-Авентис de:Sanofi-aventis es:Sanofi-Aventis fr:Sanofi Aventis he:סאנופי-אוונטיס id:Sanofi-Aventis it:Sanofi Aventis nl:Sanofi-aventis ja:サノフィ・アベンティス pl:Sanofi-Aventis pt:Sanofi-Aventis ro:Sanofi-Aventis sv:Sanofi-Aventis zh:赛诺菲－安万特