''Common names: reticulated python, regal python,Ditmars RL. 1933. Reptiles of the World. Revised Edition. The MacMillan Company. 329 pp. 89 plates. Asiatic reticulated python.''Python reticulatus is a non-venomous python species found in Southeast Asia. Adults grow to a maximum of more than 32 feet (9.75 m) in length and are probably the world's longest snakes, but not the the most heavily built. They are normally not considered dangerous to man, even though large specimens are powerful enough to kill an adult and attacks are occasionally reported.An excellent swimmer, it has even been reported far out at sea and has consequently colonized many small islands within its range. The specific name is Latin meaning net-like, or reticulated, and is a reference to the complex color pattern.Gotch AF. 1986. Reptiles -- Their Latin Names Explained. Poole, UK: Blandford Press. 176 pp. ISBN 0-7137-1704-1. No subspecies are currently recognized.DescriptionAdults grow to a maximum of more than 32 feet (9.75 m) in length and are probably the world's longest snakes.Mehrtens JM. 1987. Living Snakes of the World in Color. New York: Sterling Publishers. 480 pp. ISBN 0-8069-6460-X. However, they are relatively slim for their length and are certainly not the most heavily built.Stidworthy J. 1974. Snakes of the World. Grosset & Dunlap Inc. 160 pp. ISBN 0-448-11856-4. The anaconda, Eunectes murinus, may be larger.The color pattern is a complex geometric pattern that incorporates numerous different colors. The back typically has a series of irregular diamond shapes which are flanked by smaller markings with light centers. In this species' wide range, much variation of size, color, and markings commonly occurs.In zoo exhibits the color pattern may seem garish, but in a shadowy jungle environment amid fallen leaves and debris it allows them to virtually disappear. Called a disruptive coloration, it protects them from predators and helps them to catch their prey.Geographic rangeFound in Southeast Asia from the Nicobar Islands, Burma, Thailand, Laos, Cambodia, Vietnam, Malaysia and Singapore, east through Indonesia and the Indo-Australian Archipelago (Sumatra, the Mentawai Islands, the Natuna Islands, Borneo, Sulawesi, Java, Lombok, Sumbawa, Sumba, Flores, Timor, Maluku, Tanimbar Islands) and the Philippines (Basilan, Bohol, Cebu, Leyte, Luzon, Mindanao, Mindoro, Negros, Palawan, Panay, Polillo, Samar, Tawi-Tawi). The original description does not include a type locality. Restricted to "Java" by Brongersma (1972).HabitatOccurs in rain forests, woodland and nearby grassland. It is also associated with rivers and is found in areas with nearby streams and lakes. An excellent swimmer, it has even been reported far out at sea and has consequently colonized many small islands within its range. During the early years of the twentieth century it is said to have been common even in busy parts of Bangkok, sometimes eating domestic animals.FeedingTheir natural diet includes mammals and occasionally birds. Small specimens—up to 3–4 meters (10–14 ft) long—eat mainly rodents such as rats, whereas larger individuals switch to prey such as Viverridae (e.g. civets and binturongs), and even primates and pigs. Near human habitation, they are known to snatch stray chickens, cats and dogs on occasion. Among the largest prey items that are actually fully documented to have been taken were a half-starved old female Sun Bear of 23 kilograms that was eaten by a 6.95 m (23 ft) specimen and took some 10 weeks to digest, as well as pigs of more than 60 kg (132 lb). As a rule of thumb, these snakes seem able to swallow prey up to ¼ their own length, and up to their own weight. (2005): Predation on Sun Bears by Reticulated Python in East Kalimantan, Indonesian Borneo. Raffles Bulletin of Zoology 53(1): 165-168. PDF fulltext As with all pythons, they are ambush hunters, waiting until prey wanders within strike range before seizing it in their coils and killing via constriction.ReproductionOviparous, females lay between 60 and 100 eggs per clutch. At an optimum incubation temperature of 31–32°C (88–90 °F), the eggs take an average of 88 days to hatch. Hatchlings are at least 2 feet (61 cm) in length.Danger to humansAttacks on humans are rare, but this species has been responsible for several human fatalities, in both the wild and captivity. They are among the few snakes that have been fairly reliably reported to eat people, although only 1–3 cases of the snake actually eating rather than just killing a human seem to have been verified:Two incidents, apparently in early 20th century Indonesia: On Salibabu, a 14-year-old boy was killed and supposedly eaten by a specimen 5.17 m (c.17 ft) in length. Another incident involved an adult woman reputedly eaten by a "large reticulated python", but few details are known. (1927): Over het verslinden van menschen door Python reticulatus ["On the swallowing of humans by P. reticulatus"]. Tropische Natuur 4: 65–67. in DutchFranz Werner reports Murphy JC, Henderson RW. 1997. Tales of Giant Snakes: A Historical Natural History of Anacondas and Pythons. Krieger Pub. Co. 221 pp. ISBN 0894649957. a case from Burma (or Myanmar) either occurring in the early 1910s or in 1927. A jeweller named Maung Chit Chine, who went hunting with his friends, was apparently eaten by a 6 m (20 ft) specimen after he sought shelter from a rainstorm on or under a tree. Supposedly, he was swallowed feet first, contrary to normal snake behavior but the easiest way for a snake to actually swallow a human. (1998): I serpenti giganti giant snakes&quot;. Criptozoologia 4: 16–29. in Italian HTML fulltextIn 1932, Frank Buck wrote about a teenage boy who was eaten by a pet 25 ft reticulated python in the Philippines. According to Buck, the python had escaped and when it was found they could recognize a human child shape inside the snake, which later turned out to be the son of the snake's owner. kobis, Ian (1995): Giant python killed after trying to swallow man. The Star (Malaysian English newspaper), 16 September 1995.According to Mark Auliya, the corpse of 32-year-old Mangyan Lantod Gumiliu was recovered from the belly of a 7 m (c.23 ft) Reticulated Python on Mindoro, probably in January, 1998. Considering the known maximum prey size, it is technically possible for a full-grown specimen to open its jaws wide enough to swallow a human child, teenager, or even a small adult, although the flaring shoulders of Homo sapiens would pose a major problem. The victim would almost certainly be dead by the time the snake started swallowing. At least in the 1998 incident, the victim was gathering food or wood in the forest when he happened upon the snake. In any case, it is unlikely that any but the largest specimens are able to kill, let alone eat, an adult human, except if the victim is caught unaware.CaptivityIncreased popularity in the pet trade is due largely to increased efforts in captive breeding and selectively bred mutations such as the "albino" and "tiger" strains.They can make good captives, but keepers should have previous experience with such large constrictors to ensure safety to both animal and keeper. Although their interactivity and beauty draws much attention, some feel they are unpredictable. They do not attack humans by nature, but will bite and possibly constrict if they feel threatened, or mistake a hand for food. While not venomous, large pythons can inflict serious injuries, sometimes requiring stitches.FarmingOver the past 20 years, farming of this species has grown considerably in many Asian countries, including Indonesia. It is rumored that European settlers introduced them to the region in 1558. Current estimates state that there are roughly 5,400 such farms throughout Southeast Asia. In countries such as Indonesia, these snakes are said to outnumber humans 15 to 1. Native peoples first gained interest in farming them when they realized the skin could easily be sold for profit in the snake skin industry. The skins are popular sources for purses and boots, such as the typical snake skin cowboy boot. Prada has also used the skins on some of their purses. The meat is also considered a delicacy amongst local peoples and sells for as much at 50 USD per kilogramTaxonomyThree subspecies may be encountered, including two new ones:P. r. reticulatus, Schneider (1801) - Called "retics" in herpetoculture.P. r. jampeanus, Auliya et al. (2002) - Kayaudi dwarf reticulated pythons or Jampea retics, about half the length  (1999): Snake. DK Publishing. ISBN 0-7894-4660-X.. Found on Tanahjampea in the Selayar Archipelago south of Sulawesi.P. r. saputrai, Auliya et al. (2002) - Selayer reticulated pythons or Selayer retics. Found on Selayar Island in the Selayar Archipelago and also adjacent Sulawesi.The latter two are dwarf subspecies. Apparently, the population of the Sangir Islands north of Sulawesi represents another such subspecies, but it is not yet formally described.Auliya M, Mausfeld P, Schmitz A, Böhme W. 2002. Review of the reticulated python (Python reticulatus Schneider, 1801) with the description of new subspecies from Indonesia. Naturwissenschaften 89: 201–213The proposed subspecies dalegibbonsi, euanedwardsi, haydnmacphiei, neilsonnemani, patrickcouperi and stuartbigmorei, as well as the idea of moving the species to the monotypic genus Broghammerus, (2003): A Reclassification of the Pythoninae Including the Descriptions of Two New Genera, Two New Species, and Nine New Subspecies. Part I. Crocodilian 4'(3): 31-37. HTML fulltext (2004): A Reclassification of the Pythoninae Including the Descriptions of Two New Genera, Two New Species, and Nine New Subspecies. Part II. ''Crocodilian '''4(4): 21-40. HTML fulltext are rejected by most professional and amateur herpetologists. Most, if not all, of these taxa are generally considered nomina dubia.Wüster W, Bush B, Keogh JS, O'Shea M, Shine R. 2001. Taxonomic contributions in the "amateur" literature: comments on recent descriptions of new genera and species by Raymond Hoser. Litteratura Serpentium 21:67-91See alsoList of pythonid species and subspecies...ReferencesFurther reading (2003): Taxonomy, Life History and Conservation of Giant Reptiles in West Kalimantan. Ph.D. thesis, University of Bonn. (2002): Review of the reticulated python (Python reticulatus Schneider, 1801[sic]) with the description of new subspecies from Indonesia. Naturwissenschaften 89(5): 201-213.  (HTML abstract, electronic supplement available to subscribers) (1946): Adventures in python country. Natural History 55: 38-41.Shine R, Ambariyanto, Harlow PS, Mumpuni. Reticulated pythons in Sumatra: biology, harvesting and sustainability. Biol. conserv. ISSN 0006-3207. Abstract at CAT.INIST. Accessed 12 September 2007.External links[http://www.exotic-pets.eu/snakes/reticulated-python.php Python reticulatus] at Exotic-pets.eu. Accessed 12 September 2007.Reticulated python at Answers.com. Accessed 12 September 2007.Reticulated python forum at Kingsnake.com. Accessed 12 September 2007.Category:Pythonidae Category:Reptiles of Asia Category:Fauna of Southeast Asia Category:Fauna of Brunei Category:Fauna of Cambodia Category:Reptiles of Indonesia Category:Fauna of Laos Category:Fauna of Malaysia Category:Fauna of Burma Category:Reptiles of the Philippines Category:Fauna of Thailand Category:Fauna of Vietnambg:Малайски мрежест питон cs:Krajta mřížkovaná de:Netzpython es:Python reticulatus fr:Python réticulé id:Ular sanca kembang it:Python reticulatus he:פיתון מרושת lt:Tinklinis pitonas nl:Netpython ja:アミメニシキヘビ no:Nettpyton pl:Pyton siatkowany ru:Сетчатый питон fi:Verkkopyton sv:Nätpyton th:งูเหลือม zh:網紋蟒