''Turkey also has a mountain called Nemrut | Topographic map = | Type=Stratovolcano | Age= | Last eruption=1692 | First ascent= | Easiest route= Nemrut (Turkish: Nemrut Dağı, Armenian: Սարակն, "Mountain spring", scientific transliteration: Sarakn, Kurdish Çiyayê Nemrud) is a dormant volcano in Eastern Turkey, close to Lake Van, at .The volcano is named after King Nimrod who is said to have ruled this area in about 2100 BC.DescriptionMt. Nemrut is near Tatvan, a small town in the eastern Anatolian province of Bitlis. The mountain rises from the southwestern shore of Lake Van, and enters the district of Ahlat to the north.It is 3050 metres high and its elliptic caldera has a diameter of about 7x8 km. The western part of the caldera contains a large coldwater crater lake about 155 metres deep. There is also a small warm lake whose temperature reaches 60°C, providing evidence of continuing volcanic activity.Geological history and eruptionsMt. Nemrut is the most southern and youngest of the chain of volcanoes in eastern Anatolia. It is a stratovolcano, and began erupting during the fourth geological era and continued to be active until 1597 A.D.E. Aydar et al. / Journal of Volcanology and Geothermal Research 306 123 (2003) 301-312 As a result of the volcanic eruptions of Mt. Nemrut, the single Van - Mus river basin was divided into two separate basins. The eruption of Nemrut volcano also led the formation of Lake Van, the largest lake in Turkey.Visiting and climbing Mt. NemrutThe city of Tatvan lies to the southeast of Mt. Nemrut and is a good starting point from which to climb the volcano. One can reach the south-eastern edge of the crater after four to five hours' easy hike from Tetvan. This vantage point gives good views over the crater and lake, and also views over Lake Van. The mountain has oak and birch trees on the southern slopes, but is otherwise bare.June to September is the best time to climb the mountain. As an alternative to walking, it is possible to reach the summit by four-wheel drive vehicle from Ahlat or Tatvan.FootnotesReferencesGlobal Volcanism ProgramExternal linksPhotos from NemrutCategory:Stratovolcanoes Category:Volcanic calderas Category:Crater lakes Category:Volcanoes of Turkey Category:Mountains of Turkeyde:Nemrut (Vulkan) es:Nemrut Dagi (volcán) fr:Nemrut (volcan) ku:Nemrûd, Tetwan nl:Nemrut (vulkaan) no:Nemrut, Bitlis pl:Nemrut (wulkan) ru:Немрут-Даг (вулкан) sk:Nemrut Dağı tr:Nemrut Dağı (Bitlis)