 ]] ]] Water of sufficient quality to serve as drinking water is termed potable water, whether it is used for drinking or not. Although many sources of water are utilized by humans, some contain disease vectors or pathogens and cause long-term health problems if they do not meet certain water quality standards. Water that is not safe for human consumption, but is not harmful for human use, is sometimes referred to as safe water. The availability of drinking water is an important criterion in determining an ecosystem's "carrying capacity."Typically, water supply networks deliver potable water, whether it is to be used for drinking, washing or landscape irrigation. One counterexample is urban China, where drinking water can optionally be delivered by a separate tap. In the United States, public drinking water is governed by the Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA).Metabolism Water is necessary for all life on Earth. Humans can survive for several weeks without food, but for only a few days without water. A constant supply is needed to replenish the fluids lost through normal physiological activities, such as respiration, perspiration and urination. In terms of mineral nutrients intake, it is unclear what the drinking water contribution is. However, inorganic minerals generally enter surface water and ground water via storm water runoff or through the Earth's crust. Treatment processes also lead to the presence of some mineral nutrients. Examples include fluoride, calcium, zinc, manganese, phosphate, and sodium compounds.World Health Organization (WHO). Geneva, Switzerland. Joyce Morrissey Donohue, Charles O. Abernathy, Peter Lassovszky, George Hallberg. &quot;The contribution of drinking-water to total dietary intakes of selected trace mineral nutrients in the United States.&quot; Draft, August 2004. Water generated from the biochemical metabolism of nutrients provides a significant proportion of the daily water requirements for some arthropods and desert animals, but provides only a small fraction of a human's necessary intake. There are a variety of trace elements present in virtually all potable water, some of which play a role in metabolism. For example sodium, potassium and chloride are common chemicals found in small quantities in most waters, and these elements play a role (not necessarily major) in body metabolism. Other elements such as fluoride, while beneficial in low concentrations, can cause dental problems and other issues when present at high levels. Water is essential for the growth and maintenance of our bodies, as it is involved in a number of biological processes.RequirementThe exact amount of water a human needs is highly individual, as it depends on the condition of the subject, the amount of physical exercise, and on the environmental temperature and humidity.&lt;/ref&gt;In the US, the reference daily intake (RDI) for water is 3.7 litres per day for human males older than 18, and 2.7 litres for human females older than 18US daily reference intake values including water contained in food, beverages, and drinking water. Food contributes 0.5 to 1 litre, and the metabolism of protein, fat, and carbohydrates produces another 0.25 to 0.4 litresSwedish DFA (in Swedish), which means that 2 to 3 litres of water for men and 1 to 2 litres of water for women should be taken in as fluid in order to meet the RDI. Because in general, RDI values incorporate a safety margin to account for individual variations, it does not mean that this amount is necessary for every person. The folk wisdom that everyone should drink two litres (68 ounces, or about eight 8-oz glasses) of water per day is not supported by scientific research. Various reviews of all the scientific literature on the topic performed in 2002 and 2008 could not find any solid scientific evidence that recommended drinking eight glasses of water per day.Research debunks health value of guzzling water. Reuters, April 2008. H. Valtin, Drink at least eight glasses of water a day.&quot; Really? Is there scientific evidence for &quot;8 × 8&quot;? Am J Physiol Regul Integr Comp Physiol 283: R993-R1004, 2002. Dan Negoianu and Stanley Goldfarb. Just add water. J. Am. Soc. Nephrol. 19: 1041-1043, 2008. For example, people in hotter climates will require greater water intake than those in cooler climates. An individual's thirst provides a better guide for how much water they require rather than a specific, fixed number. A more flexible guideline is that a normal person should urinate 4 times per day, and the urine should be a light yellow color. Profuse sweating can increase the need for electrolyte (salt) replacement. Water intoxication (which results in hyponatremia), the process of consuming too much water too quickly, can be fatal.The human kidneys will normally adjust to varying levels of water intake. If a person suddenly increases water intake, the kidneys will produce more diluted urine, even if the person did not happen to consume water excessively. The kidneys will require time to adjust to the new water intake level. This can cause someone who drinks a lot of water to become dehydrated more easily than someone who routinely drinks less. Survival classes recommend that someone who expects to be in an environment with little water (such as a desert), to not drink water excessively, but rather to drink gradually decreasing amounts for several days before their trip to accustom the kidneys to making concentrated urine. Not using this method can, and has been known to be, fatal.Man Dies of Thirst During Survival Test, San Francisco Chronicle, May 2, 2007Indicators of Safe Drinking WaterAccess to safe drinking water is indicated by the number of people using proper sanitary sources. These improved drinking water sources include household connection, public standpipe, borehole condition, protected dug well, protected spring, and rain water collection. Sources that don't encourage improved drinking water to the same extent as previously mentioned include: unprotected well, unprotected spring, rivers or ponds, vender-provided water, bottled water (consequential of limitations in quantity, not quality of water), and tanker truck water. Access to sanitary water comes hand in hand with access ^^ to improved sanitation facilities for excreta. These facilities include connection to public sewer, connection to septic system, pour-flush latrine, and ventilated improved pit latrine. Unimproved sanitation facilities are: public or shared latrine, open pit latrine, or bucket latrineMeeting the MDG Drinking Water and Sanitation Target: A Mid-Term Assessment of Progress www.who.int/water_sanitation_health/monitoring/jmp04.pdf.== Access to drinking water ==   ]] )is another much employed survival technique ]]  in Thailand. One litre of purified water is sold (into the customer's own bottle) for 1 baht]] Earth's surface consists of 70% water. Water is available almost everywhere if proper methods are used to get it. Sources where water may be obtained include:groundsources (eg aquifers, aquitards, etc.)water from the sky (also called stormwater; which includes rain, hail, snow, fog, etc.)surface water (eg streams/rivers)other sources (such as plants, animals, etc.)As a country’s economy becomes stronger (as its GNP per capita or PPP rise) a larger percentage of its people tend to have access to drinking water and sanitation. Access to drinking water is measured by the number of people who have a reasonable means of getting an adequate amount of water that is safe for drinking, washing, and essential household activities.In the US, the typical nonconserving single family home uses 69.3 gallons of water per capita per day. These figures are concerning in some parts of the country where water supplies are dangerously low due to drought, particularly in the West and the South East region of the U.S March 2008, Cashing in on Climate Change, IBISWorld.As of the year 2006 (and pre-existing for at least three decades), there is a substantial shortfall in availability of potable water in less developed countries, primarily arising from industrial contamination and pollution. As of the year 2000, 27 percent of the populations of lesser developed countries did not have access to safe drinking waterI.A. Shiklomanov, Appraisal and Assessment of World Water Resources, Water International 25(1): 11-32 (2000). Implications for disease propagation are significant. Many nations have water quality regulations for water sold as drinking water, although these are often not strictly enforced outside of the developed world. The World Health Organization sets international standards for drinking water. A broad classification of drinking water safety worldwide can be found in Safe Water for International Travelers.It reflects the health of a country’s people and the country’s capacity to collect, clean, and distribute water to consumers. According to the United Nations' World Health Organization (WHO) more than one billion people in low and middle-income countries lack access to safe water for drinking, personal hygiene and domestic use. These numbers represent more than 20 percent of the world’s people. In addition, close to 3 billion people did not have access to adequate sanitation facilities. (For details see data on the website of the Joint Monitoring Program (JMP) on water and sanitation of WHO and UNICEF.)While the occurrence of waterborne diseases in developed countries is generally low due to a generally good system of water treatment, distribution and monitoring, waterborne diseases are among the leading causes of morbidity and mortality in low- and middle-income countries, frequently called developing countries.The main reason for poor access to safe water is the inability to finance and to adequately maintain the necessary infrastructure. Overpopulation and scarcity of water resources are contributing factors.Many other countries also lack in the amount of safe drinking water that they need to survive. Some of the countries have less than twenty percent of the population that has access to safe drinking water. For example in Africa, with more than 700 million people, only forty-six percent of people have safe drinking water. The more populous Asia Pacific region with over three billion people, eighty percent of whom with access to drinking water, still leaves over 600 million people without access to safe drinking water.http://www.africa-interactive.net/index.php?PageID=3830The lack of water and the lack of hygiene is one of the biggest problems that many poor countries have encountered in progressing their way of living. The problem has reached such endemic proportions that 2.2 million deaths per annum occur from unsanitary water - ninety percent of these are children under the age of five. http://www.ethoswater.com/index.cfm?objectid=6406649E-F1F6-6035-B59D53E360F38354 One program developed to help people gain access to safe drinking water is the Water Aid program. Working in 17 countries to help provide water, Water Aid is useful in helping the sanitation and hygiene education to some of the world's poorest people.http://www.wateraid.org Solar water disinfection is a low-cost method of purifying water that can often be implemented with locally available materials.Conroy R.M., Meegan M.E., Joyce T., McGuigan K., Barnes J. (1999), Solar disinfection of water reduces diarrhoeal disease, an update, Arch Dis Child, Vol. 81. Conroy R.M., Meegan M.E., Joyce T.M., McGuigan K.G., Barnes J. (2001) Use of solar disinfection protects children under 6 years from cholera. Arch Dis Child; 85:293-295 Rose A. at al. (2006). Solar disinfection of water for diarrhoeal prevention in Southern India. Arch Dis Child, 91(2): 139-141 Hobbins M. (2003). The SODIS Health Impact Study, Ph.D. Thesis, Swiss Tropical Institute Basel Unlike methods that rely on firewood, it has low impact on the environment.+ Table 2: Percentage of population with access to safe drinking water (2000)Country%&nbsp;Country%&nbsp;Country%&nbsp;Country%&nbsp;Country%Albania97&nbsp;Algeria89&nbsp;Azerbaijan78&nbsp;Brazil87&nbsp;Chile93China75&nbsp;Cuba91&nbsp;Egypt97&nbsp;India84&nbsp;Indonesia78Iran92&nbsp;Iraq85&nbsp;Kenya57&nbsp;Mexico88&nbsp;Morocco80Peru80&nbsp;Philippines86&nbsp;South Africa86&nbsp;South Korea92&nbsp;Sudan67Syria80&nbsp;Turkey82&nbsp;Uganda52&nbsp;Venezuela83&nbsp;Zimbabwe83Note: All industrialized countries (as listed by UNICEF) with data available are at 100%.Diarrhea as a major health effect among childrenDiarrhoeal diseases cause ninety percent of all deaths of children under five years old in developing countries. Malnutrition, especially protein-energy malnutrition, can decrease the children's resistance to infections, including water-related diarrhoeal diseases. In 2000-2003, 769,000 children under five years old in sub-Saharan Africa died each year from diarrhoeal diseases. As a result of only thirty-six percent of the population in the sub-Saharan region having access to proper means of sanitation, more than 2000 children's lives are lost every day. In south Asia, 683,000 children under five years old died each year from diarrhoeal disease from 2000-2003. During the same time period, in developed countries, 700 children under five years old died from diarrhoeal disease. Improved water supply reduces diarrhea morbidity by twenty-five percent and improvements in drinking water through proper storage in the home and chlorination reduces diarrhea episodes by thirty-nine percentWHO/UNICEF, Water for life: making it happen.Plans to improve availability of drinking waterOne of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) set by the UN includes environmental sustainability. In 2004, only forty-two percent of people in rural areas had access to clean water. Sixty-three percent of the population in sub-Saharan Africa lacked access to basic sanitation facilities (hardly down from the sixty-eight percent in 1990). The effects of climate change add more distress to sub-Saharan Africa. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change estimates that 75-250 million people will have to cope with additional limitations to water access. The results could be terrible for the livelihoods of the disadvantaged and rural economies. Currently the UN is not on schedule with their plans and estimates that their intended goal will not be reached by 2015Africa and the Millennium Development Goals www.un.org/millenniumgoals/docs/MDGafrica07.pdf.Bottled water regulationIn the United States, the Environmental Protection Agency sets standards for tap and public water, while the Food and Drug Administration regulates bottled water as a food product under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FFDCA). June 25, 1938, ch. 675, 52 Stat. 1040;  et seq. However, bottled water is not necessarily more pure, or more tested, than public tap water.U.S. EPA. Washington, DC. &quot;Ground water and drinking water - Frequently asked questions.&quot; EPA standards for safe public water systems are based on the Safe Drinking Water Act.Pub.L. 93-523;  et seq. December 16, 1974.For more information regarding United States regulation of bottled water production, see the Code of Federal Regulations, 21 CFR Part 129.U.S. Government Printing Office (GPO). Washington, DC. Code of Federal Regulations: 21 CFR Part 129, &quot;Processing and Bottling of Bottled Drinking Water.&quot;United States' Bottled water classificationsBottled water manufacturers in the United States must ensure that their products meet the FDA established standard of identity for bottled water products.U.S. GPO, Code of Federal Regulations: 21 CFR § 165.110(a), &quot;Bottled water; Identity.&quot; A bottled water product identified under a specific category, such as mineral water, spring water, artesian water, etc., must meet requirements established by the government or be considered misbranded.FDA regulations define identity information for categories of bottled water:U.S. GPO, Code of Federal Regulations: 21 CFR § 165.110, &quot;Bottled water.&quot;drinking water - The lowest common denominator of potable water categories, meeting the basic EPA/FDA standardsground water - The name of water from a subsurface saturated zone that is under a pressure equal to or greater than atmospheric pressure.artesian water, also known as artesian well water - The name of water from a well tapping a confined aquifer in which the water level stands at some height above the top of the aquifer. (Water that will rise above the water table if tapped) Artesian water may be collected with the assistance of external force to enhance the natural underground pressure.How often is "artesian water" tested to meet these standards? The law says there is no mandatory testing, instead: "On request, plants shall demonstrate to appropriate regulatory officials that the water level stands at some height above the top of the aquifer."U.S. GPO, Code of Federal Regulations: 21 CFR § 165.110(a)(2)(i), &quot;Bottled water; Identity; Nomenclature.&quot;mineral water - The name of water containing not less than 250 parts per million (ppm) total dissolved solids (TDS), coming from a source tapped at one or more bore holes or springs, originating from a geologically and physically protected underground water source. Mineral water shall be distinguished from other types of water by its constant level and relative proportions of minerals and trace elements at the point of emergence from the source, due account being taken of the cycles of natural fluctuations. No minerals may be added to this water.purified water - The name of water that has been produced by distillation, deionization, reverse osmosis, or other suitable processes and that meets the definition of "purified water" in the United States Pharmacopeia, 23d Revision, January 1, 1995.Alternatively, the water may be called "deionized water" if the water has been processed by deionization, "distilled water" if it is produced by distillation, or "reverse osmosis water" if the water has been processed by reverse osmosis.sparkling water - The name of water that, after treatment and possible replacement of carbon dioxide, contains the same amount of carbon dioxide from the source that it had at emergence from the source.spring water - The name of water derived from an underground formation from which water flows naturally to the surface of the earth.Spring water shall be collected only at the spring or through a bore hole tapping the underground formation feeding the spring. There shall be a natural force causing the water to flow to the surface through a natural orifice. The location of the spring shall be identified.Water Quality And Contaminants    As of 2006, waterborne diseases are estimated to cause 1.8 million deaths each year while about 1.1 billion people lack proper drinking water.U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Atlanta, GA. &quot;Safe Water System: A Low-Cost Technology for Safe Drinking Water.&quot; Fact Sheet, World Water Forum 4 Update. March 2006.. As such, it is clear that improvements are needed in the developing world on the regard of water purification; especially in those parts where obtaining water from ground (wells) and sky (precipitation) is not available and only surface water is available.Water may need treatment before use, depending on the source and the intended use (with high standards required for drinking water). The quality of water from household connections and community water points in low-income countries is not reliably safe for direct human consumption. Water extracted directly from surface waters and open hand-dug shallow wells nearly always requires treatment.Appropriate technology options in water treatment include both community-scale and household-scale point-of-use (POU) designs.Centre for Affordable Water and Sanitation Technology, [http://webmail.cawst.org/documents/Camille/New%20Training%20Materials/HWT%20Manual_Mar%2008.pdf "Household Water Treatment Guide," March 2008.The most reliable way to kill microbial pathogenic agents is to heat water to a rolling boilhttp://www.who.int/water_sanitation_health/dwq/GDWQ2004web.pdf WHO’s Guidelines for Drinking Water Quality. Other techniques, such as varying forms of filtration, chemical disinfection, and exposure to ultraviolet radiation (including solar UV) have been demonstrated in an array of randomized control trials to significantly reduce levels of waterborne disease among users in low-income countries.Clasen, T., Schmidt, W., Rabie, T., Roberts, I., Cairncross, S. Interventions to improve water quality for preventing diarrhoea: a systematic review and meta-analysis. British Medical Journal, doi:10.1136/bmj.39118.489931.BE (published 12 March 2007)Over the past decade, an increasing number of field-based studies have been undertaken to determine the success of POU measures in reducing waterborne disease. The ability of POU options to reduce disease is a function of both their ability to remove microbial pathogens if properly applied and such social factors as ease of use and cultural appropriateness. Technologies may generate more (or less) health benefit than their lab-based microbial removal performance would suggest.The current priority of the proponents of POU treatment is to reach large numbers of low-income households on a sustainable basis. Few POU measures have reached significant scale thus far, but efforts to promote and commercially distribute these products to the world's poor have only been under way for a few years.Parameters for drinking water quality typically fall under two categories: chemical/physical and microbiological. Chemical/physical parameters include heavy metals, trace organic compounds, total suspended solids (TSS), and turbidity. Microbiological parameters include Coliform bacteria, E. coli, and specific pathogenic species of bacteria (such as cholera-causing Vibrio cholerae), viruses, and protozoan parasites.Chemical parameters tend to pose more of a chronic health risk through buildup of heavy metals although some components like nitrates/nitrites and arsenic may have a more immediate impact. Physical parameters affect the aesthetics and taste of the drinking water and may complicate the removal of microbial pathogens.Originally, fecal contamination was determined with the presence of coliform bacteria, a convenient marker for a class of harmful fecal pathogens. The presence of fecal coliforms (like E. Coli) serves as an indication of contamination by sewage. Additional contaminants include protozoan oocysts such as Cryptosporidium sp., Giardia lambia, Legionella, and viruses (enteric).U.S. EPA. &quot;Drinking Water Contaminants: Microorganisms.&quot; Microbial pathogenic parameters are typically of greatest concern because of their immediate health risk.See alsoBackflow prevention deviceBacteriological water analysisBoil water advisoryBottled waterCarl Rogers DarnallClean Water ReportClean Water ActClean Water State Revolving FundDesalinationDrinking water quality legislation of the United StatesDual pipingFlow: For Love of WaterFood safetyGiardia lambliaInternational Hydrological ProgrammeOverpopulationPlumbingTap waterWaterborne diseasesWater crisisWater fluoridationWater purificationWater resourcesWater lawReferencesExternal links   Safe Water for International Travelers - A broad classification of drinking water safety worldwide.US Environmental Protection Agency - National drinking water program - General info, regulations & technical publicationsWHO - Water Sanitation and HealthCategory:Drinking water Category:Symbols of Indianaar:مياه الشرب cs:Pitná voda de:Trinkwasser es:Agua potable eo:Trinkakvo fr:Eau potable ko:음료수 id:Air bersih it:Acqua potabile hu:Ivóvíz nl:Drinkwater ja:飲料水 no:Drikkevann oc:Aiga bevedera pl:Woda pitna pt:Água potável ro:Apă potabilă ru:Питьевая вода sc:Aba potàbile sk:Pitná voda fi:Juomavesi sv:Dricksvatten tr:İçme suyu uk:Питна вода zh-yue:食水 zh:饮用水