 , Crete, 5th c. B.C]]  (one of the oldest known Latin inscriptions) is written boustrophedon, albeit irregularly: reading from top to bottom, lines 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, 12, 14, 16 run from right to left; lines 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 13, and 15, from left to right; 8, 9, and 16 are upside down. (From a rubbing by Domenico Comparetti.)]] Boustrophedon (; from Greek βουστροφηδόν "ox-turning"&mdash;that is, turning like oxen in ploughing), is an ancient way of writing manuscripts and other inscriptions.Rather than going from left to right as in modern English, or right to left as in Hebrew and Arabic, alternate lines must be read in opposite directions.The name is borrowed from the Greek language. Its etymology is from  - bous, "ox" +  - strefein, "to turn" (cf. strophe), because the hand of the writer goes back and forth like an ox drawing a plow across a field and turning at the end of each row to return in the opposite direction (i.e., "as the ox ploughs").ExplanationMany ancient scripts, such as Safaitic, were frequently or typically written boustrophedon, but in Greek it is found most commonly on pre-historic and archaic inscriptions, becoming less and less popular throughout the Hellenic period.By analogy, the term may be used in other areas to describe this kind of alternation of motion or writing. For example, it is occasionally used to describe the print head motion of certain dot matrix computer printers. In that case, while the print head moves in opposite directions on alternate lines, the printed text is not in boustrophedon format.Boustrophedon in the Jargon File of hacker slang.Examples in EnglishWall textThe wooden boards and other incised artifacts of Rapa Nui also bear a boustrophedonic script called Rongorongo, which remains undeciphered. In Rongorongo the text in alternate lines was rotated 180 degrees rather than mirrored; this is termed reverse boustrophedon.Tablet textExample of Hieroglyphic Luwian, read boustrophedon into the faces of animals, or body parts-(some exceptions). (Starting at top right&mdash;(of the left stele), lines 1, 3, 5, 7, 9 read right&ndash;to&ndash;left.) ]]The Egyptian language represented with hieroglyph texts and wall reliefs, is the major hieroglyphic language from antiquity; the only other language that also had a hieroglyph version, was the Luwian language and its hieroglyphic Luwian, read boustrophedon; (most of the language was in cuneiform). Other languages that appear to have 'hieroglyphs' are explained as glyphs that make up a language with "script characters" or sets, (with some characters that are virtually identical to varieties of hieroglyphs).The Hieroglyphic Luwian is read boustrophedon into the front of animals, or body parts. However unlike Egyptian hieroglyphs with their numerous ideograms and logograms which show an easy directionality, the lineal direction of the text in hieroglyphic Luwian is harder to see.Other examplesA modern example of boustrophedonics is the numbering scheme of sections within survey townships in the United States and Canada. In both countries, survey townships are divided into a 6-by-6 grid of 36 sections. In the U.S. Public Land Survey System, Section 1 of a township is in the northeast corner, and the numbering proceeds boustrophedonically until Section 36 is reached in the southeast corner. Canada's Dominion Land Survey also uses boustrophedonic numbering, but starts at the southeast corner.The term is used by postmen in the United Kingdom to describe street numbering which proceeds serially in one direction then turns back in the other. This is in contrast to the more common method of odd and even numbers on opposite sides of the street.Another example is the boustrophedon transform, known in mathematics.Yet another example is the antiparallel structure of DNA. Sense and antisense strands of DNA are commonly written in boustrophedon.See alsoMirror writingSator square - one interpretation reads it boustrophedonStoichedonReferencesExternal links A Boustrophedon text readerAnother which generates a web page. Boustrophedonic fonts supplied.Category:Writing systems Category:Greek loanwordsbn:বুস্ট্রফেডন bg:Бустрофедон da:Bustrofedon de:Bustrophedon el:Βουστροφηδόν es:Bustrofedon eo:Tienreena skribo fr:Boustrophédon gl:Bustrófedon it:Scrittura bustrofedica he:בוסטרופידון la:Bustrophedon nl:Boustrophedon ja:牛耕式 pl:Bustrofedon pt:Bustrofédon ru:Бустрофедон sl:Bustrofedon fi:Bustrofedon sv:Bustrofedon zh:牛耕式轉行書寫法