 Mandalay is the second largest city and the last royal capital of Burma (Myanmar), and is the economic and cultural hub of Upper Burma. The city, located  north of Yangon on the right bank of Irrawaddy river, has a population of nearly 1 million (2.5 million metropolitan area), and is also the capital of Mandalay Division.HistoryFounded in 1857 by King Mindon, Mandalay was the last capital (1860&ndash;1885) of the last independent Burmese Kingdom before annexation by the British after the Third Anglo-Burmese War in 1885.Unlike other Burmese towns, Mandalay did not grow from a smaller settlement, although a small village Hti Baunga did exist nearby. Mandalay was set up in an empty area at the foot of 775&nbsp;ft high (236&nbsp;m) Mandalay Hill according to a prophecy made by the Buddha that in that exact place a great city, a metropolis of Buddhism, would come into existence on the occasion of the 2,400th jubilee of Buddhism.King Mindon decided to fulfill the prophecy and during his reign in the Kingdom of Amarapura he issued a royal order on January 13, 1857 to establish a new kingdom. The Ceremony of Ascending the Throne was celebrated in July 1858 and the former royal city of Amarapura was dismantled and moved by elephants to the new location at the foot of Mandalay Hill. With the ground-breaking ceremony, King Mindon laid the foundation of Mandalay on the 6th waning day of Kason, Burmese Era 1219 (1857). The King simultaneously laid the foundations of seven edifices: the royal city with the battlemented walls, the moat surrounding it, the Maha Lawka Marazein Stupa (Kuthodaw Pagoda), the higher ordination hall named the Pahtan-haw Shwe Thein, the Atumashi (Incomparable) monastery, the Thudhama Zayats or public houses for preaching the Doctrine, and the library for the Buddhist scriptures.The whole royal city was called Lei Kyun Aung Myei (Victorious Land over the Four Islands) and the royal palace, ''Mya Nan San Kyaw'' (The Famed Royal Emerald Palace). The new royal capital was called Yadanabon Naypyidaw, the Burmese version of its Pali name Ratanapura which means "The City of Gems". It then became Mandalay after the hill; the name is a derivative of the Pali word "Mandala", which means "a plains land" - Mandalay is said to be as flat as the face of a drum - and also of the Pali word "Mandare", which means "an auspicious land."Mandalay was captured by the British during the Third Anglo-Burmese War (1885). Reigning King Thibaw and his queen, Supayalat, were forced to evacuate the palace and eventually exiled to India. Renamed Fort Dufferin, the palace was used to quarter British and Indian troops and many of its fabulous treasures were looted. Some of the best pieces were sent back to Great Britain and can still be seen in the Victoria and Albert Museum.Mandalay suffered heavy damage during World War II. The Japanese captured Mandalay on 2 May 1942, and turned the fort that contained the palace, into a supply depot. The fort was heavily bombed by the British prior to their liberation of the city in March 1945. The palace was burnt down to the ground and only the masonry plinth of the palace complex with a couple of masonry structures such as the royal mint and the hour drum tower remained. A faithful replica of the palace was rebuilt in the 1990s.After Burma's independence from Britain in 1948, the city became the capital of Mandalay Division.GeographyMandalay is bounded by the Ayeyarwady River to the west and is located at .Cityscape, at 790&nbsp;ft (240&nbsp;m), is home to many of Mandalay's religious sites. ]] ]]  - Some of the 729 stupas known as the world's largest book]] Mandalay Hill: The hill has for long been a holy mount and legend has it that the Buddha on his visit had prophesied that a great city would be founded at its foot. Mandalay Hill, 230 metres in elevation, commands a magnificent view of the city and surrounding countryside. The construction of a motor-car road to reach the hill-top easily has already been finished. Entrance Fee - US$ 4Mandalay Palace: The whole magnificent palace complex was destroyed by a fire during World War II. However, the finely built palace walls, the city gates with their crowning wooden pavilions and the surrounding moat still present an impressive scene of the Mandalay Palace "Mya-nan-san-kyaw Shwenandaw" which has been rebuilt using forced labour. A model of the Mandalay Palace, Nanmyint-saung and Cultural Museum are located inside the Palace grounds. Entrance Fee - US$ 5 (Palace), Entrance Fee - US$ 3 (Museum)Shwenandaw Monastery: Famous for its intricate wood-carvings, this monastery is a fragile reminder of the old Mandalay Palace. Actually, it was built inside Mandalay Palace but it was moved to this place by King Thibaw in 1880. Entrance Fee - US$ 3Maha Muni Pagoda: The Image is said to have been cast in the life-time of the Gautama Buddha and that the Buddha embraced It 7 times thereby bringing It to life. Consequently, devout Buddhists hold It to be alive and refer to It as the Maha Muni Sacred Living Image. Revered as the holiest pagoda in Mandalay, It was built by King Bodawpaya in 1784. The Image in a sitting posture is 12 feet and 7 inches (3.8 m) high. As the Image was brought from Rakhine State it was also called the Great Rakhine Buddha. The early morning ritual of washing the Face of Buddha Image draws a large crowd of devotees everyday. The Great Image is also considered as the greatest, next to the Shwedagon Pagoda, in Burma. A visit to Mandalay is incomplete without a visit to Maha Muni Pagoda. Entrance Fee - US$ 4Kuthodaw Pagoda (The World's Biggest Book): Built by King Mindon in 1857, this pagoda modeled on the Shwe Zigon at NyaungU, is surrounded by 729 upright stone slabs on which are inscribed the entire Buddhist Scriptures as edited and approved by the 5th Buddhist Synod. It is popularly known as "the World's Biggest Book" for its stone scriptures. Entrance Fee - US$ 2Kyauktawgyi Pagoda: Near the southern approach to Mandalay Hill stands the Kyauktawgyi Buddha Image that was built by King Mindon in 1853-78. The Image was carved out of a huge single block of marble. Statues of 80 Arahats (the Great Disciples of the Buddha) are assembled around the Image, 20 on each side. The carving of the Image was completed in 1865.Buddha's Replica Tooth Relic Pagoda: One of the Buddha's Sacred Replica Tooth Relic was enshrined in the Mandalay Swedaw Pagoda on Maha Dhammayanthi Hill in Amarapura Township. The pagoda was built with cash donations contributed by the peoples of Burma and Buddhist donors from around the world under the supervision of the Burmese military government. The authorities and donors hoisted Buddha's Replica Tooth Relic Pagoda Mandalay's Shwe Htidaw (sacred golden umbrella), Hngetmyatnadaw (sacred bird perch vane) and Seinphudaw (sacred diamond bud) on 13th, December, 1996.Atumashi Kyaung: The " Atumashi Kyaung " (which literally means the inimitable monastery) is also one of the worth seeing place. Actually, it was ruined by fire in 1890 and partly survived. It was indeed an inimitable one in its heyday. The reconstruction project started by the government on 2nd May, 1995 and completed in June, 1996.AdministrationThe Mandalay District which includes the city and its vicinity comprises the following townships:AmarapuraAung Myay TharzanChan Aye TharzanChan Mya TharziMaha Aung MyayPatheingyiPyigyidangonTransportMandalay is the terminus of the main rail line from Yangon and the starting point of branch lines to Pyin U Lwin (Maymyo), Lashio and Myitkyina farther north. The Ayeyarwaddy of the "Road to Mandalay" fame remains an important arterial route for goods such as farm produce including rice and cooking oil, pottery, bamboo and teak.Mandalay boasts the largest and most modern airport in Burma, Mandalay International Airport. Built at a cost of $150 million in 2000, the airport is highly underutilized; it serves mostly domestic flights with the exception of flights to Kunming.Culture, Pakistan, now in Mandalay. Teresa Merrigan, 2005]] Mandalay is Burma's cultural and religious center of Buddhism, having numerous monasteries and more than 700 pagodas. At the foot of Mandalay Hill sits the world's official "Buddhist Bible", also known as the world’s largest book, in Kuthodaw Pagoda. There are 729 slabs of stone that together are inscribed with the entire Buddhist canon, each housed in its own white stupa.The buildings inside the old Mandalay city walls, surrounded by a moat repaired in recent times using prison labour, comprise the Mandalay Palace, mostly destroyed during World War II and now replaced by a replica, Mandalay Prison and a military garrison, the headquarters of the Central Military Command.Mandalay in popular cultureRudyard Kipling wrote a poem called "Mandalay", which is the origin of the phrase "on the road to Mandalay".http://raysweb.net/poems/mandalay/mandalay.htmlIn 1907, Kipling's poem was set to music by Oley Speaks as "On the Road to Mandalay". Speaks' version was widely recorded. Among the best known renditions is the one by Frank Sinatra on Come Fly With Me.Kurt Weill's Happy End includes the "Mandalay Song."46 Bliss perform a song "The Road to Mandalay" on their Pistachio Home release.Manderley (a variant spelling of "Mandalay") is the name of the house in the novel Rebecca by Daphne du Maurier.In a comedy sketch Peter Cook, as a bicyclist, seeks directions to Mandalay from Dudley Moore, who painting road lines on what he says is the Karakoram highway.George Orwell was stationed at Mandalay for a time while working for the Indian Imperial Police in Burma, and his first novel, Burmese Days, was based on his experiences in Burma. He also wrote a number of short non-fiction essays and short stories about Burma, such as "Shooting an Elephant" and "A Hanging".The children's song "Nellie the Elephant" features the line "they met one night by a silver light on the road to Mandalay."in Mandalay.]]Mandalay is referenced in the song "Not Guilty" written by George Harrison for The Beatles but it was not released as a Beatles song until the The Beatles Anthology was released in 1995. A solo version of the song was released by Harrison in 1979. He sings: 'Not Guilty, for leading you astray, on the roads of Mandalay', using it as an allusion for the Beatles' trip in India, 68.Mandalay Bay is the name of a casino in Las Vegas.Mandalay is a music group responsible for the song "Beautiful"Saya Myoma Nyein composed so many songs for Mandalay especially for Thingyan FestivalFestival.The Ian Dury and the Blockheads song "Hit Me With Your Rhythm Stick", features the line "On the Road to Mandalay".The Electric Light Orchestra had an unreleased track on their 1983 Secret Messages album called Mandalay. It later released on the 3rd CD of their boxed set Afterglow.Colin Hay, the lead singer and main writer from the group Men at Work has put out a number of solo albums since the break up of Men at Work. His album Topanga, released in 1996, has a track called Road to Mandalay.Mandalay is referenced in the song "Mountains of Burma" by Midnight Oil on the album Blue Sky Mining. Written by Rob Hirst.Blackmore's Night has a song called Way to Mandalay on Ghost of a Rose.Manderlay is a film by Lars von Trier.Robbie Williams had a song called "The Road To Mandalay" on Sing When You're Winning.Manfat Voodoo has a song called "The Bus Times to Mandalay" on their album "Erasmus Darwin and the Chicken Ladder"The title song of the Eagles' 2007 release Long Road Out Of Eden includes the line "Been down the road to Damascus, the road to Mandalay."In "Lady Chatterley," a 1992 Ken Russell film, Lady Chatterley and her sister plan a trip to Mandalay to visit their father.EconomyMandalay is the major trading and communications center for northern and central Burma and beyond. Much of Burmese external trade to China and India goes through Mandalay.Among the leading traditional industries are silk weaving, tapestry, jade cutting and polishing, stone and wood carving, making marble and bronze Buddha images, temple ornaments and paraphernalia, the working of gold leaves and of silver, the manufacture of matches, brewing and distilling. (Mandalay beer, brewed in Mandalay by the Ministry of Industry (1), is among the best known beers in Burma.)Ethnic Chinese have increasingly dominated Mandalay's economy since the imposition of sanctions by the United States and the European Union in the 1990s.EducationUniversity of MandalayMandalay University of Distance EducationMandalay University of Foreign LanguagesMandalay Technological UniversityMandalay University of MedicineYadanabon UniversityUniversity of Traditional Medicine, MandalaySee alsoMandalay International AirportMandalay Chanmyathazi AirportReferencesExternal linksSee also nearby Pyin Oo Lwin, the historic hill station above MandalayMandalay Supply RouteHistory SOASMandalay city websiteMandalay, the Burmese Heartland by Dr. Constance Wilson, Northern Illinois UniversityAsian Historical Architecture - Mandalay by Prof. Robert D. Fiala, Concordia University, NebraskaMintha TheaterMandalay Photo GalleryPhoto Gallery Category:Settlements established in 1859 Category:Cities, towns and villages in the Mandalay Divisionca:Mandalay da:Mandalay de:Mandalay es:Mandalay (ciudad) eo:Mandalay fr:Mandalay id:Mandalay it:Mandalay ky:Мандалай la:Mandale lt:Mandalajus my:မန္တလေးမြို့ nl:Mandalay (stad) ne:माण्डले ja:マンダレー no:Mandalay pl:Mandalaj pt:Mandalay ru:Мандалай sk:Mandalaj fi:Mandalay sv:Mandalay vi:Mandalay tr:Mandalay zh:曼德勒