]]Senj (, , Greek Attienities, Αθυινιτες, German and Hungarian Zengg) is a city in the Lika-Senj county of Croatia, population 8,132 (2001), and absolute majority are Croats (96.77%). It is located on the Adriatic coast below the Vratnik mountain pass which separates the Velebit mountain from the mountains of Gorski kotar. Due to its geographic position, the strong northeastern wind bura is a very common occurrence in Senj.Historyof Senj built by Ivan Lenković in 1558]] Senj has been inhabited since the prehistoric times. A settlement called Attienities in today's Senj was mentioned in Greek documents dated 4th century BC. The Romans used Senia as a stronghold against the Illyrians in the 2nd century BC, and it was a thriving town in their province of Dalmatia. The Avars and the Croats settled Senj in the 7th century (AD).The Senj Catholic diocese was established in 1169. Croatian-Hungarian king Bela III gave the town to the Templars in 1184, and in 1271 it became the property of the counts of Krk, the Frankopans.In 1248 the bishop of Senj was allowed by the Pope Innocent IV to use the Glagolitic alphabet and the vernacular language in liturgy. A Glagolitic printing press was set up in 1494, and produced the incunabula "The Glagolic Missal" and "Spovid općena".The military captaincy of Senj was established in 1469 in order to defend from the invading Ottoman and Venetian armies, and the town sheltered thousands of refugees from the nearby occupied areas. The Nehaj fortress was completed on a hill near the town in 1558. The wars with the Ottomans lasted well into the 17th century and Senj spawned many an uskok, small units of men rowing swift boats, very efficient guerrilla forces.The 18th century brought some prosperity, especially with the construction of the so-called "Josephine road" (built during French occupation of Illyrian provinces and named by the Napoléon's wife) from Karlovac to Rijeka via Senj. The railway line built in 1873 didn't go past Senj, however, and this deterred its further development.EconomyModern Senj is a seaside tourist town. Primary occupations are fishing, boating, and tourism.Towns and VillagesThere are 27 settlements in the municipality and they include: Alan, Biljevine, Bunica, Crni Kal, Jablanac, Klada, Krasno, Krivi Put, Lukovo, Melnice, Mrzli Dol, Pijavica, Podbilo, Prizna, Senj, Senjska Draga, Starigrad, Stinica, Stolac, Sveta Jelena, Sveti Juraj, Velike Brisnice, Veljun Primorski, Volarice, Vrataruša, Vratnik i Vrzići.PopulationAdministrative unit city of Senj has 8,132 inhabitants. Population by nationality:Croats 7,869 (96.77%)Albanians 155 (1,91%)others 108 (2.32%)Notable peopleEugen KvaternikIvan PaskvićVjenceslav NovakSilvije Strahimir KranjčevićMilutin Cihlar NehajevPavao Ritter VitezovićMirko Ožegović BarlabaševačkiNikola JurišićMilan MogušIvan Đalma MarkovićAnte GlavičićSandra ŠarićTwin cities Kőszeg, Hungary Vratimov, Czech Republic Wieluń, Poland Sorbiers, France Senec, Slovakia Parndorf, Austria Vrbovec, CroatiaPicturesImage:Senj.jpg|A port in Senj Image:Senj6.jpg| Image:Nehaj Senj Croatia 02.jpg|Fortress of the Uskok pirates (Nehaj) Image:Senj harbor, Croatia, panorama with view to Nehaj castle.JPG|Senj harbor External linksCategory:Cities and towns in Croatiabs:Senj bg:Сен (град) cs:Senj de:Senj es:Senj eo:Senj fr:Senj hr:Senj it:Segna lt:Senis hu:Senj nl:Senj ja:セーニ pl:Senj ro:Senj ru:Сень (город) sl:Senj sr:Сењ sh:Senj sv:Senj