 | place of birth = Athens, Greece | date of death = | place of death =Lausanne, Switzerland | Princess Helen of Greece and Denmark (2 May/3 May, 1896 - 28 November, 1982) was the wife of King Carol II of Romania and the mother of King Michael I of Romania.Princess of GreeceHelen was born in Athens, the third child of Crown Prince Constantine of Greece (later King Constantine I) and of his wife, Princess Sophia of Prussia. Helen had three brothers each of whom reigned as kings of Greece - George II, Alexander, and Paul - and two sisters, Irene and Katherine.In 1910 Helen went into exile with her parents and siblings as a result of a military plot to put her father on the Greek throne in place of her grandfather King George I of Greece.Arthur Gould Lee, Helen, Queen Mother of Rumania, Princess of Greece and Denmark: An Authorized Biography (London: Faber and Faber, 1956), 25. The family spent the summer at Schloss Friedrichshof, the home of Helen's maternal aunt Margaret, Landgravine of Hesse. They spent the winter at a hotel in Frankfurt before returning to Athens.In 1917 Helen and her family went into exile a second time as a result of her father not supporting the Allies in World War I.Gould, 63-64. After a brief stay at St. Moritz, the family moved to a villa near Zurich. Their movements were severely restricted by the Allies; they had to reside in the German-speaking part of Switzerland, their French and English staff had to be dismissed, and they were not permitted contact with other French and English people.Crown Princess of RomaniaIn December 1919 Helen met Crown Prince Carol of Romania in Lucerne; he was returning from a world tour after his forced divorce from his first wife.Gould, 72. Helen accompanied Carol to Romania to celebrate the formal engagement of her brother George to Carol's sister Elisabeth. In November 1920 Carol visited Zurich and asked King Constantine for Helen's hand in marriage. The match was not an arranged one; indeed, Helen's mother was against it.Gould, 74.In December 1920 King Constantine I was restored to his throne in Greece and Helen returned to Athens. On 10 March, 1921 Helen married Crown Prince Carol of Romania in the Metropolitan Cathedral of Athens. She was the first princess of Greece to marry in Athens.Gould, 83. The couple honeymooned at Tatoi before sailing for Bucharest at the beginning of May.Gould, 84.Helen and Carol had an apartment in the Cotroceni Palace in Bucharest, but they spent most of their time at the Foishor, a Swiss chalet in the grounds of the Peleş Castle in Sinaia.Gould, 88. The marriage was at first happy, but soon soured.Gould, 89.  On October 25, 1921, Helen and Carol's first and only child Michael was born at the Foishor. "There were complications and for a while neither mother nor child were expected to pull through".Gould, 91. The baby was rumored to have been born premature (he was born only seven and a half months after his parents wedding), but the fact that he weighed nine pounds at birth fueled speculation that Helen had become pregnant before the wedding. In December 1921 the family moved to a house in the Chausée Kyselef in Bucharest.Gould, 92. Helen tried to establish a nursing school to improve standards in Romania. She was also appointed honorary colonel of the 9th Cavalry Regiment, the Roshiori.Gould, 99.In 1925 Carol began an affair with Elena &quot;Magda&quot; Lupescu. In December 1925 he renounced his rights to the throne and left Romania. On January 4, 1926, the Romanian Parliament ratified the acceptance of Carol's renunciation and passed a bill giving Helen the title Princess of Romania."Prince Charles's Renunciation", The Times (January 5, 1926): 11. Helen remained in Romania with her son Michael who was now heir to the throne. The following summer she went to Italy to try to arrange a meeting with Carol but failed.Gould, 116.Queen consort of RomaniaIn July 1927 Helen's five-year old son Michael succeeded as king of Romania. Other than her rank as a princess of Romania, Helen held no official position; she was not a member of the regency council. In December 1927 Carol asked Helen for a divorce.Gould, 119-120. At first she refused, but eventually she gave in to government advice. On June 21, 1928, the marriage was dissolved by the Romanian Supreme Court on the grounds of incompatibility.Gould, 121; "Prince Carol, Divorce Proceedings in Rumania", The Times (June 9, 1928): 14.  On June 6, 1930, Carol returned to Romania and declared himself king. Helen continued to live in her own home in the Chausée Kyselef in Bucharest with her son Michael. There ensued several months of discussion about annulling the divorce. The government and public opinion were most desirous of Carol and Helen restoring their marital relationship. A joint coronation ceremony was planned for mid-September.Gould, 139. Helen was even told by the Prime Minister Iuliu Maniu that as a result of the abrogation of the act of January 4, 1926, Carol had legitimately succeeded as king in July 1927, from which point she had automatically ranked as queen.Gould, 140.The government presented a decree to Carol for his signature officially confirming Helen as Her Majesty The Queen of Romania. Carol, however, crossed this out and declared Helen to be Her Majesty Helen (i.e. with the style Majesty, but not the title Queen). Helen refused to allow anyone to use this style in her presence.Gould, 141. They ended up divorcing in 1928.Eventually it became clear that Carol himself did not want the divorce annulled and that his lover Madame Lupescu was living with him at the Foishor.Gould, 147. Because Helen would not oppose the government's plans to annul the divorce, Carol took measures against her: guards were place around her residence, those who visited her were persecuted, and she was deprived of her office as honorary colonel of the Roshiori regiment.Gould, 149.Faced with this treatment, Helen determined to go into exile. After a brief visit to London, she went to her mother's villa near Florence. Gould, 155. There was ongoing conflict with Carol about how frequently and under what circumstances she should be able to see their son Michael. In October 1932 she returned to Bucharest. Carol initiated a campaign in the press against her, claiming that she had tried to commit suicide twice.Gould, 164-165. The government issued a statement confirming Helen's civil list payment, and officially allowing her to reside in Romania six months each year, and to take her son Michael abroad one month each year."Princess Helen of Rumania, Settlement Signed", The Times (November 2, 1932): 11.In spite of the official permission to reside in Romania, Helen was expected to stay in exile and returned to Florence.Gould, 166-167. With her financial situation now stable, she was able to purchase her own villa at the nearby town of San Domenico. In spring 1934 Helen moved into Villa Sparta with her brother Paul and her two sisters.Gould, 169. She lived here for the next ten years, seeing her son Michael for a month or so each year.Queen Mother of RomaniaIn September 1940 Michael was restored to the throne. Now aged eighteen, he recalled his mother to Romania. She received the designation Queen Mother of Romania (Regina mamă, Elena). During World War II she devoted herself to the care of the wounded. For her efforts to rescue Romanian Jews from the Nazis, she was awarded the status of Righteous Among the Nations. Martin Gilbert, The Righteous: The Unsung Heroes of the Holocaust (Owl Books, 2003), 240. ISBN 0805062610.In December 1947 Michael was forced to abdicate. Helen returned to San Domenico. Later she lived at Lausanne and Florence.Helen died at the age of 86 in Lausanne.Ancestry  ReferencesBibliographyLee, Arthur Gould. Helen, Queen Mother of Rumania, Princess of Greece and Denmark: An Authorized Biography. London: Faber and Faber, 1956."Queen Helen of Rumania", The Times (November 30, 1982): 12.External linksRoyal House of GreeceRoyal House of Romania  Category:Greek Orthodox Christians Category:Danish princesses Category:Greek princesses Category:Greek Romanians Category:Holocaust in Romania Category:House of Glücksburg Category:House of Hohenzollern-Sigmaringen Category:People from Athens Category:Queen mothers Category:Romanian Righteous Among the Nations Category:Romanian Orthodox Christians Category:Romanian people of World War II Category:Romanian royal consorts Category:1896 births Category:1982 deaths Category:Eastern Orthodox Righteous Among the Nations Category:Greek Righteous Among the Nationsca:Helena de Grècia cs:Helena Řecká a Dánská da:Helena af Grækenland de:Elena von Griechenland es:Helena de Grecia fr:Hélène de Grèce it:Elena di Grecia he:אלנה, נסיכת יוון ומלכת רומניה nl:Helena van Griekenland ja:エレナ・ア・ロムニエイ pl:Helena, księżniczka grecka i duńska ro:Regina mamă, Elena sv:Helena av Grekland th:เจ้าหญิงเฮเลนแห่งกรีซและเดนมาร์ก