  The Don () is one of the major rivers of Russia. It rises in the town of Novomoskovsk 60 kilometres southeast from Tula, southeast of Moscow, and flows for a distance of about 1,950 kilometres (1,220&nbsp;mi) to the Sea of Azov.From its source, the river first flows southeast to Voronezh, then southwest to its mouth. The main city on the river is Rostov on Don, its main tributary, the Donets.HistoryIn antiquity, the river was viewed as the border between Europe and Asia. In the Book of Jubilees, it is mentioned as being part of the border, beginning with its westernmost point up to its mouth, between the allotment of Japheth to the north and that of Shem to the south, sons of Noah. During the times of the old Scythians it was known in Greek as the Tanaïs, and has been a major trading route ever since.Tanais appears in ancient Greek sources as the name of the river and of a city on it, situated in the Maeotian marshes. The name derives however from Scythian Iranic Dānu "river", akin to modern Ossetic don "river".At its easternmost point, the Don comes near the Volga, and the Volga-Don Canal (length ca. 105 kilometres (65 mi)), connecting both rivers, is a major waterway. The Khazar fortress of Sarkel used to dominate this point in the Middle Ages. This part of the river saw heavy fighting during Operation Uranus, one of the turning points of the Second World War.The Don has given its name to the Don Cossacks who settled the fertile valley of the river in the 16th and 17th centuries. In modern literature, the Don figures centrally in the works of Mikhail Aleksandrovich Sholokhov, a writer from the stanitsa of Veshenskaya. Gallery Image:Veshki 21.jpg|Don River near village Kalininsky in Rostov Oblast (photo 2002). Image:Don_kalinin.jpg|Don River near khutor Kalininsky in Rostov Oblast (photo 2002). Image:veshki_15.jpg|Eagle statue, Don River and stanitsa Veshenskaya in Rostov Oblast (photo 2002). Image:Veshki 24.jpg|Don River near town Veshenskaya in Rostov Oblast (photo 2002). Image:elets_04.jpg|Don River in Lipetsk Oblast (photo 2001). Image:elets_16.jpg|Don River in Lipetsk Oblast (photo 2001). FootnotesCategory:Rivers of Russia Category:Lipetsk Oblast Category:Rivers of Rostov Oblast Category:Rivers of Tula Oblast Category:Rivers of Volgograd Oblast Category:Rivers of Voronezh Oblastbs:Don (rijeka) bg:Дон ca:Don cv:Тан (юханшыв) cs:Don cy:Afon Don (Rwsia) da:Don de:Don (Russland) et:Don el:Ντον es:Río Don eo:Don (rivero) eu:Don ibaia fr:Don (fleuve) gl:Río Don ko:돈 강 hr:Don is:Don it:Don (fiume russo) he:דון (נהר) la:Tanais lt:Donas hu:Don nl:Don (Rusland) ja:ドン川 no:Don pl:Don pt:Rio Don (Rússia) ro:Don (Rusia) ru:Дон simple:River Don sk:Don sr:Дон sh:Don fi:Don sv:Don (flod) vi:Sông Đông tr:Don Nehri uk:Дон zh:頓河 (俄羅斯)