 July 27 2007 | runtime = 105 minutes | country =  | language = English | budget = $12, 000, 000 | gross = $21, 400, 000 | website = http://www.sonypictures.com/movies/iknowwhokilledme/ | amg_id = 1:379456 | imdb_id = 0897361 I Know Who Killed Me is a thriller-mystery film released in 2007.In 2008, the film won eight Golden Raspberry Awards, a new record (beating Showgirls and Battlefield Earth) including Worst Film, Worst Actress and the first ever award in a new category, Worst Excuse For A Horror Movie.PlotThe quiet suburb of New Salem is being terrorized by a brutal serial killer who abducts and tortures young women, holding them captive for weeks before murdering them. Aubrey Fleming (Lindsay Lohan), a talented pianist and aspiring writer, appears to be his latest victim when she disappears without a trace during a night out with her friends. As the days tick by, the special FBI Task Force convened to track the killer begins to lose hope of finding her before it’s too late.Then, late one night, a driver discovers a young woman by the side of a deserted road, disheveled and critically injured. The girl is rushed to the hospital, where Aubrey’s distraught parents, Susan (Julia Ormond) and Daniel (Neal McDonough), wait by her side as she slips in and out of consciousness. When she is finally able to speak, she shocks everyone by claiming to be a down-on-her luck stripper named Dakota Moss who has never heard of Aubrey Fleming. Convinced Aubrey is suffering from post traumatic stress disorder, her doctors, parents and law enforcement officials can only wait for rest and therapy to restore her memory. But after returning to her parents’ suburban home, she continues to insist that she is not who they think she is, despite bearing bizarre wounds identical to those of the serial killer’s previous victims.The FBI agents are further mystified when they search Aubrey’s computer and discover a short story about a girl with an alter ego named Dakota. When Dakota begins to suspect she may be Aubrey’s identical twin sister, Susan shows her a video of her pregnancy ultrasound clearly revealing there was only one fetus in her womb. Confused and terrified, Dakota starts seeing visions of a menacing figure slowly butchering his captive. Convinced that time is running out both for Aubrey and herself, Dakota confronts Daniel with a shocking truth that leads them on a frantic hunt for the killer.Aubrey and Dakota are twins, born to Virginia Sue Moss, a crack addict. Moss gave birth to them the same time the Flemings have their own child, who dies in the incubator. Daniel Fleming quietly raises one as his own daughter, paying Virginia over the years by mail. Dakota finds the envelopes and attempts to find her parents, when she suffers sympathetic resonance from her twin's wounds, and is found by the highway. It turns out that the two are stigmatic twins, with a strange mental connection that lets them share pain, communicate, and even share experiences, which explains some of Aubrey's stories.After investigating the grave of Aubrey's recently murdered friend, Jennifer Toland, Dakota finds a blue ribbon from a piano competition, with a message from Jennifer's (and Aubrey's) piano teacher. Dakota realizes that the teacher murdered Jennifer and abducted Aubrey after they expressed intentions to quit, taking off their fingers, arm, and a leg in a twisted retribution. Dakota and Daniel confront the killer. Daniel dies in the process, but Dakota finds Aubrey where the killer buried her alive and frees her. The movie ends with the two lying together on the ground, looking out into the night.CastLindsay Lohan as Aubrey Fleming/Dakota MossJulia Ormond as Susan FlemingNeal McDonough as Daniel FlemingBrian Geraghty as Jerrod PointerGarcelle Beauvais as Agent Julie BascomezSpencer Garrett as Agent Phil LazarusGregory Itzin as Dr. Greg JamesonKenya Moore as JazminRodney Rowland as Kenny ScaifeJessica Rose as MarciaKelsey Arynn as AnyaArt Bell as himselfReceptionBox officeThe film's opening weekend North American box office gross was $3.5 million,Variety.com making it the 9th top grossing film that weekend. It went on to gross a total of $7,498,716 in the U.S. The film's budget was around $12 million,I Know Who Killed Me (2007) - Box office / business&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; and the film went on to gross $9,401,206 at the box office worldwideI Know Who Killed Me (2007)&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;. By January 13 it had grossed $12 million on DVD rentals in the United States making a total of $21.4 million.I Know Who Killed Me (2007) - DVD / Home Video Rentals&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; Lindsay Lohan's July 24, 2007 DUI arrest prevented her from being able to promote the movie, which was released days later.ReviewsI Know Who Killed Me received mostly bad reviews.[http://blog.mlive.com/kalamazoo_gazette_extra/2007/07/how_bad_is_lohans_latest_you_d.html "How bad is Lohan's latest? You don't want to 'Know'", Kalamazoo Gazette] RottenTomatoes.com shows an 8% approval rating from critics with the consensus: "Distasteful and ludicrously plotted".[[Rotten Tomatoes]] It currently holds a 16% rating on Metacritic, which indicates "extreme dislike or disgust". Richard Roeper ranked it number one on his "Worst movies of 2007" list. The film received nine Razzie nominations, the most of any film in 2007. It won eight of them, including two awards for Worst Actress (Lindsay Lohan playing twins), Worst Director (Chris Sivertson), Worst Screenplay (Jeff Hammond), Worst Screen Couple (Lohan and Lohan) and a new category, Worst Excuse for a Horror Film.Razzies© 2007 Nominees&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; The only award it lost was Worst Supporting Actress (Julia Ormond), who lost to Eddie Murphy for his role in drag in Norbit. The movie set a record for the most Razzie wins ever, previously beating the tie held by Battlefield Earth and Showgirls with seven wins each.28th Annual Golden Raspberry (Razzie©) Award “Winners”Despite this the film did garner a few positive reviews. Fangoria praises the film's imaginative use of colour: "the director and his visual team bathe the film in deep blues and reds, a welcome departure from the dirty green, sodium-lit palette of similarly themed horror fare, and the end result is simply a beautiful, eye-popping visual treat, so stylized that one can’t help recalling Argento’s approach to SUSPIRIA."Fangoria.com And according to "The Movie Boy": "Lohan's stripteases and pole-swinging theatrics at the gentleman's club are notable for being genuinely steamy, sleekly shot and choreographed".The Movie BoyReleasesDVD releaseThe DVD and Blu-ray Disc were released in November 27 2007. The art cover of the DVD shows Lohan, in blue, pole-dancing, with the faces of her alter egos Aubrey Fleming and Dakota Moss on either side.Amazon.com Bestsellers: The most popular items in Movies &amp; TV. Updated hourly&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Amongst the extras are alternate opening and ending scenes with the latter showing that the entire plot was actually written by Aubrey. However, the test audiences thought this ending was too expected, so it was cut from the film. Other extras include an extended version of Lohan's strip dance at the club and bloopers. By January, the DVD had grossed $11.99 million.I Know Who Killed Me (2007) - DVD / Home Video Rentals&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; The Region 2 DVD was released January 28 2008 with different cover art showing a close-up of Lohan, in red, doing her pole-dance at the strip club.amazon.co.uk - I Know Who Killed MeSoundtrack link  The score for I Know Who Killed Me, composed by Joel McNeely, was released on July 24, 2007.Track listing"Prelude for a Madman""Duality""Fairytale Theme""A Daughter Is Dead""End of Innocence/Aubrey Is Gone""Mother's Grief""Search for Aubrey""Bus Stop""Spontaneous Bleed""Going Home""Jennifer's Room""Some People Get Cut""Investigating Stigmata""Mirror""Graveyard""I Know Who Killed Me""House""Dad Dies""Death of Norquist""Prelude/Reunited""Chopin: Valse Brillante"ReferencesExternal linksOfficial siteOfficial trailer at Apple.comCategory:2007 films Category:American films Category:TriStar films Category:English-language films Category:Erotic films Category:Films shot digitally Category:Psychological thriller films Category:Serial killer films Category:Erotic thriller films Category:Worst Picture Razzie winners de:Ich weiß, wer mich getötet hat es:I Know Who Killed Me fr:I Know Who Killed Me it:Il nome del mio assassino mk:Јас знам кој ме уби nl:I Know Who Killed Me no:I Know Who Killed Me pl:Wiem kto mnie zabił pt:I Know Who Killed Me ru:Я знаю, кто убил меня sq:I Know Who Killed Me sv:I Know Who Killed Me