  The Proto-Indo-European language (PIE) is the hypothetical common ancestor of the Indo-European languages, spoken by the Proto-Indo-Europeans. The existence of such a language has been accepted by linguists for over a century, and there have been many attempts at reconstruction. Nevertheless, many disagreements and uncertainties remain.Discovery and reconstructionWhen and where was PIE spoken?There are several competing hypotheses about when and where PIE was spoken. The Kurgan hypothesis is "the single most popular" model,. "The Kurgan solution is attractive and has been accepted by many archaeologists and linguists, in part or total. It is the solution one encounters in the Encyclopaedia Britannica and the Grand Dictionnaire Encyclopédique Larousse.". "The single most popular proposal is the Pontic steppes (see the Kurgan hypothesis)..." postulating that the Kurgan culture of the Pontic steppe were the hypothesized speakers of the reconstructed Proto-Indo-European language. However, alternative theories such as the [[Anatolian hypothesis|Anatolian urheimat]] have also gained acceptance.The satemization process that caused the separation between Centum and Satem languages probably started as early as the fourth millennium BC".. the satemization process can be dated to the last centuries of the fourth millennium." http://www.kortlandt.nl/publications/art111e.pdf THE SPREAD OF THE INDO-EUROPEANS -Frederik Kortlandt. and the only thing known for certain is that the proto language must have been differentiated into unconnected daughter dialects by the late 3rd millennium BC.Mainstream linguist estimates of the time between PIE and the earliest attested texts (ca. nineteenth century BC; see Kültepe texts) range around 1,500 to 2,500 years, with extreme proposals diverging up to another 100% on either side:the 4th millennium BC (excluding the Anatolian branch) in Armenia, according to the Armenian hypothesis (proposed in the context of Glottalic theory);the 5th millennium BC (4th excluding the Anatolian branch) in the Pontic-Caspian steppe, according to the popular Kurgan hypothesis;the 6th millennium BC or later in Northern Europe according to Lothar Kilian's and, especially, Marek Zvelebil's models of a broader homeland;the 6th millennium BC in India, according to Koenraad Elst's Out of India model;the 7th millennium BC in Anatolia (the 5th, in the Balkans, excluding the Anatolian branch), according to Colin Renfrew's Anatolian hypothesis;the 7th millennium BC (6th excluding the Anatolian branch), according to a 2003 glottochronological studyRussell D. Gray and Quentin D. Atkinson, Language-tree divergence times support the Anatolian theory of Indo-European origin, Nature 426 ([[27 November] 2003) 435-439];before the 10th millennium BC, in the Paleolithic Continuity Theory.History The classical phase of Indo-European comparative linguistics leads from Franz Bopp's Comparative Grammar (1833) to August Schleicher's 1861 Compendium and up to Karl Brugmann's Grundriss published from the 1880s. Brugmann's junggrammatische re-evaluation of the field and Ferdinand de Saussure's development of the laryngeal theory may be considered the beginning of "contemporary" Indo-European studies.PIE as described in the early 1900s is still generally accepted today; subsequent work is largely refinement and systematization, as well as the incorporation of new information, notably the Anatolian and Tocharian branches unknown in the 19th century.Notably, the laryngeal theory, in its early forms discussed since the 1880s, became mainstream after Jerzy Kuryłowicz's 1927 discovery of the survival of at least some of these hypothetical phonemes in Anatolian. Julius Pokorny's Indogermanisches etymologisches Wörterbuch (1959) gave an overview of the lexical knowledge accumulated until the early 20th century, but neglected contemporary trends of morphology and phonology, and largely ignored Anatolian and Tocharian.The generation of Indo-Europeanists active in the last third of the 20th century (such as Calvert Watkins, Jochem Schindler and Helmut Rix) developed a better understanding of morphology and, in the wake of Kuryłowicz's 1956 Apophonie, understanding of the ablaut. From the 1960s, knowledge of Anatolian became certain enough to establish its relationship to PIE; see also Indo-Hittite.Method There is no direct evidence of PIE, because it was never written. All PIE sounds and words are reconstructed from later Indo-European languages using the comparative method and the method of internal reconstruction. An asterisk is used to mark reconstructed PIE words, such as *'''' 'water', *'''' 'dog' (English hound), or *'''' 'three (masculine)'. Many of the words in the modern Indo-European languages seem to have derived from such "protowords" via regular sound changes (e.g., Grimm's law).As the Proto-Indo-European language broke up, its sound system diverged as well, according to various sound laws in the daughter languages. Notable among these are Grimm's law and Verner's law in Proto-Germanic, loss of prevocalic *p-'' in Proto-Celtic, reduction to ''h of prevocalic ''*s-'' in Proto-Greek, Brugmann's law and Bartholomae's law in Proto-Indo-Iranian, Grassmann's law independently in both Proto-Greek and Proto-Indo-Iranian, and Winter's law and Hirt's law in Balto-Slavic.Relationship to other language familiesMany higher-level relationships between PIE and other language families have been proposed. But these speculative connections are highly controversial. Perhaps the most widely accepted proposal is of an Indo-Uralic family, encompassing PIE and Uralic. The evidence usually cited in favor of this is the proximity of the proposed Urheimaten of the two families, the typological similarity between the two languages, and a number of apparent shared morphemes. Frederik Kortlandt, while advocating a connection, concedes that "the gap between Uralic and Indo-European is huge", while Lyle Campbell, an authority on Uralic, denies any relationship exists.The existence of certain PIE typological features in Northwest Caucasian languages may hint at an early Sprachbundhttp://www.kortlandt.nl/publications/art130e.pdf Frederik Kortlandt-GENERAL LINGUISTICS AND INDO-EUROPEAN RECONSTRUCTION, 1993 or substratum that reached geographically to the PIE homelands.http://www.kortlandt.nl/publications/art111e.pdf The spread of the Indo-Europeans - Frederik Kortlandt, 1989 This same type of languages, featuring complex verbs and of which the current Northwest Caucasian languages might have been the sole survivors, was cited by Peter Schrijver to indicate a local lexical and typological reminiscence in western Europe pointing to a possible Neolithic substratum.http://www2.let.uu.nl/Solis/homelet/publicaties/lezingenreeks/pdf/Schrijver_Peter_oratie.pdf Peter Schrijver - Keltisch en de buren: 9000 jaar taalcontact, University of Utrecht, March 2007.Other proposals, further back in time (and correspondingly less accepted), link PIE and Uralic with Altaic and certain other families in Asia, such as Korean, Japanese, Chukotko-Kamchatkan and Eskimo-Aleut (representative proposals are Nostratic and Joseph Greenberg's Eurasiatic); or link some or all of these to Afro-Asiatic, Dravidian, etc., and ultimately to a single Proto-World family (nowadays mostly associated with Merritt Ruhlen). Various proposals, with varying levels of skepticism, also exist that join some subset of the putative Eurasiatic language families and/or some of the Caucasian language families, such as Uralo-Siberian, Ural-Altaic, Proto-Pontic, and so on.Phonology+ Proto-Indo-European consonants (traditional transcription)LabialCoronalDorsalLaryngealpalatalplainlabialNasalPlosive&nbsp;voiced]]&nbsp;aspirated]]&nbsp;FricativeLiquidSemivowelShort vowels Long vowels ; sometimes a colon (:) is employed to indicate vowel length instead of the macron sign (a:, e:, o:).Diphthongs vocalic allophones of consonantal phonemes: .Other long vowels may have appeared already in the proto-language by compensatory lengthening: .MorphologyRootPIE was an inflected language, in which the grammatical relationships between words were signaled through inflectional morphemes (usually endings). The roots of PIE are basic morphemes carrying a lexical meaning. By addition of suffixes, they form stems, and by addition of desinences (usually endings), these form grammatically inflected words (nouns or verbs). PIE roots are understood to be predominantly monosyllabic with a basic shape CvC©. This basic root shape is often altered by ablaut. Roots which appear to be vowel initial are believed by many scholars to have originally begun with a set of consonants, later lost in all but the Anatolian branch, called laryngeals (usually indicated H'', and often specified with a subscript number ''h1, h2, h3). Thus a verb form such as the one reflected in Latin , Greek  (ágousi), Sanskrit  would be reconstructed as , with the element  constituting the root per se.AblautOne of the distinctive aspects of PIE was its ablaut sequence that contrasted the vowel phonemes o/e/Ø vowel within the same root. Ablaut is a form of vowel variation which changed between these three forms perhaps depending on the adjacent sounds and placement of stress in the word. These changes are echoed in modern Indo-European languages where they have come to reflect grammatical categories. These ablaut grades are usually referred to as: e-grade and o-grade, sometimes collectively termed full grade; zero-grade (no vowel, Ø); and lengthened grade (ē or ō). Modern English sing, sang, sung is an example of such an ablaut set and reflects a pre-Proto-Germanic sequence sengw-, songw-, sngw-''. Some scholars believe that the inflectional affixes of Indo European reflect ablaut variants, usually zero-grade, of older PIE roots. Often the zero-grade appears where the word's accent has shifted from the root to one of the affixes. Thus the alternation found in Latin ''est, sunt reflects PIE h1és-ti, h1s-óntiNounProto-Indo-European nouns were declined for eight cases (nominative, accusative, genitive, dative, instrumental, ablative, locative, vocative). There were three genders: masculine, feminine, and neuter.There are two major types of declension, thematic and athematic. Thematic nominal stems are formed with a suffix ''-o-'' (in vocative ''-e'') and the stem does not undergo ablaut. The athematic stems are more archaic, and they are classified further by their ablaut behaviour (acro-dynamic, protero-dynamic, hystero-dynamic and holo-dynamic, after the positioning of the early PIE accent (dynamis) in the paradigm).PronounPIE pronouns are difficult to reconstruct owing to their variety in later languages. This is especially the case for demonstrative pronouns. PIE had personal pronouns in the first and second person, but not the third person, where demonstratives were used instead. The personal pronouns had their own unique forms and endings, and some had two distinct stems; this is most obvious in the first person singular, where the two stems are still preserved in English I'' and ''me. According to Beekes (1995), there were also two varieties for the accusative, genitive and dative cases, a stressed and an enclitic form.Personal pronouns (Beekes 1995)First personSecond personSingularPluralSingularPluralNominative]]'''h₁eǵ(oH/Hom)weituHyuHAccusative]]'''h₁mé, h₁mensmé, nōstwéusmé, wōsGenitive]]'''h₁méne, h₁moins(er)o-, nostewe, toiyus(er)o-, wosDative]]'''h₁méǵʰio, h₁moinsmei, nstébʰio, toiusmeiInstrumental]]'''h₁moí?toí?Ablative]]'''h₁mednsmedtuedusmedLocative]]'''h₁moínsmitoíusmiAs for demonstratives, Beekes (1995) tentatively reconstructs a system with only two pronouns:  "this, that" and  "the (just named)" (anaphoric). He also postulates three adverbial particles  "here",  "there" and  "away, again", from which demonstratives were constructed in various later languages.===Verb=== The Indo-European verb system is complex and, as the noun, exhibits a system of ablaut. Verbs have at least four moods (indicative, imperative, subjunctive and optative, as well as possibly the injunctive, reconstructible from Vedic Sanskrit), two voices (active and mediopassive), as well as three persons (first, second and third) and three numbers (singular, dual and plural). Verbs are conjugated in at least three "tenses" (present, aorist, and perfect), which actually have primarily aspectual value. Indicative forms of the imperfect and (less likely) the pluperfect may have existed. Verbs were also marked by a highly developed system of participles, one for each combination of tense and mood, and an assorted array of verbal nouns and adjectival formations.Buck 1933Beekes 1995AthematicThematicAthematicThematicSingular1st-mi-ō-mi-oH2nd-si-esi-si-eh₁i3rd-ti-eti-ti-ePlural1st-mos/mes-omos/omes-mes-omom2nd-te-ete-th₁e-eth₁e3rd-nti-onti-nti-oNumbersThe Proto-Indo-European numerals are generally reconstructed as follows:Sihler 1995, 402–24Beekes 1995, 212–16oneHoi-no-/*Hoi-wo-/*Hoi-k(ʷ)o-;*sem-Hoi(H)nostwod(u)wo-duoh₁threetrei- (full grade)/* (zero grade)treiesfourkʷetwor- (o-grade)/* (zero grade), see also the  rulekʷetuōrfivepenkʷepenkʷesixs(w)eḱs; originally perhaps*(s)uékssevenseptm̥séptmeightoḱtō,* or*,*h₃eḱteh₃nine(h₁)newn̥(h₁)néuntendeḱm̥(t)déḱmttwentywīḱm̥t-; originally perhaps*duidḱmtithirtytrīḱomt-; originally perhaps*trih₂dḱomth₂fortykʷetwr̥̄ḱomt-; originally perhaps*kʷeturdḱomth₂fiftypenkʷēḱomt-; originally perhaps*penkʷedḱomth₂sixtys(w)eḱsḱomt-; originally perhaps*ueksdḱomth₂seventyseptm̥̄ḱomt-; originally perhaps*septmdḱomth₂eightyoḱtō(u)ḱomt-; originally perhaps*h₃eḱth₃dḱomth₂ninety(h₁)newn̥̄ḱomt-; originally perhaps*h₁neundḱomth₂hundredḱm̥tom; originally perhaps*dḱmtómthousandǵheslo-,*ǵʰes-l-Lehmann (1993, 252-255) believes that the numbers greater than ten were constructed separately in the dialects groups and that* originally meant "a large number" rather than specifically "one hundred."Sample textsAs PIE was spoken by a prehistoric society, no genuine sample texts are available, but since the 19th century modern scholars have made various attempts to compose example texts for purposes of illustration. These texts are educated guesses at best; Calvert Watkins in 1969 observes that in spite of its 150 years' history, comparative linguistics is not in the position to reconstruct a single well-formed sentence in PIE. Nevertheless, such texts do have the merit of giving an impression of what a coherent utterance in PIE might have sounded like.Published PIE sample texts:Schleicher's fable () by August Schleicher (1868), modernized by Hermann Hirt (1939) and Winfred Lehmann and Ladislav Zgusta (1979)The king and the god () by S. K. Sen, E. P. Hamp et al. (1994)NotesReferencesLehmann, W., and L. Zgusta. 1979. Schleicher's tale after a century. In Festschrift for Oswald Szemerényi on the Occasion of his 65th Birthday, ed. B. Brogyanyi, 455–66. Amsterdam.Mallory, J.P., (1989). In Search of the Indo-Europeans London: Thames and Hudson. ISBN 0-500-27616-1Renfrew, Colin (1987). Archaeology & Language. The Puzzle of the Indo-European Origins. London: Jonathan Cape. ISBN 0-224-02495-7Vyacheslav V. Ivanov and Thomas Gamkrelidze, The Early History of Indo-­European Languages, Scientific American, vol. 262, N3, 110­116, March, 1990Remys, Edmund, General distinguishing features of various Indo-European languages and their relationship to Lithuanian, Indogermanische Forschungen, Walter de Gruyter, Berlin, New York, Band 112, 2007.See alsoLaryngeal theoryProto-Indo-EuropeansIndo-European studiesProto-Indo-European religionProto-World languageIndo-European s-mobileDaughter proto-languagesProto-Armenian languageProto-Balto-Slavic languageProto-Celtic languageProto-Germanic languageProto-Greek languageProto-Indo-Iranian languageExternal linksIndo-European Dictionary by Gerhard Köbler (contains Indo-European Grammar in Vorwort section) Indo-European Etymological Dictionary by Julius Pokorny (University of Texas)Comparative Notes on Hurro-Urartian, Northern Caucasian and Indo-European (by Vyacheslav V. Ivanov)Indo-European family tree, showing Indo-European languages and sub branchesImage of Indo-European migrations from the Armenian HighlandsThe Early History of Indo-European LanguagesAuthors: Thomas V. Gamkrelidze and VV Ivanov. (Scientific American, March 1990)]American Heritage Dictionary:Indo-European and the Indo-Europeans, essay on the reconstruction of Proto-Indo-EuropeanIndo-European Roots, indexPIE theoretical grammarIndo-European Etymological Dictionary database (Leiden University)Indo-European Documentation Center at the University of Texas&quot;The Indo-Uralic Verb&quot; by Frederik KortlandtSay something in Proto-Indo-European (by Geoffrey Sampson)An Overview of the Proto-Indo-European Verb System (by Piotr Gąsiorowski)Many PIE example textsPIE root etymology database (by S.L.Nikolaev and S.A.Starostin)On the internal classification of Indo-European languages: survey by Václav Blažek. Linguistica ONLINE. ISSN 1801-5336 (Brno, Czech Republic)List of Proto-Indo-European roots (from Wiktionary)Category:Proto-Indo-European language Category:Indo-European Indo-European Category:Bronze Agebn:প্রত্ন-ইন্দো-ইউরোপীয় ভাষা bs:Proto-indoevropski jezik br:Indezeuropeg bg:Индоевропейски праезик ca:Protoindoeuropeu cs:Praindoevropský jazyk de:Indogermanische Ursprache es:Idioma proto-indoeuropeo eo:Hindeŭropa pralingvo eu:Proto-indoeuroparrera fa:زبان نیا-هندواروپایی fr:Indo-européen commun gd:Ind-Eòrpais gl:Protoindoeuropeo hr:Indoeuropski prajezik it:Indoeuropeo la:Lingua Protoindoeuropaea lt:Indoeuropiečių prokalbė li:Proto-Indogermaans hu:Indoeurópai alapnyelv nl:Proto-Indo-Europees ja:インド・ヨーロッパ祖語 no:Urindoeuropeisk nn:Urindoeuropeisk språk pl:Język praindoeuropejski pt:Língua proto-indo-européia ro:Limba proto-indo-europeană ru:Праиндоевропейский язык sq:Gjuha Pie simple:Proto-Indo-European language sk:Praindoeurópčina sl:Praindoevropščina fi:Indoeurooppalainen kantakieli sv:Urindoeuropeiska zh:原始印歐語