  Deep Forest is a musical group consisting of two French musicians, Eric Mouquet and Michel Sanchez. They compose a new kind of world music, sometimes called ethnic electronica, mixing ethnic with electronic sounds and dance beats or chillout beats. Their sound has been described as an "ethno-introspective ambient world music"Deep Forest Biography: Contemporary Musicians&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;. They were nominated for a Grammy Award in 1993 for Best World Music AlbumDeep Forest Growing in Popularity&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;, and in 1996 they won the Award for the album Boheme. The group also became World Music Awards Winner - French group with the highest 1995 world sales. Their albums have sold over 10 million copies.HistoryMichel Sanchez came up with the idea of mixing Baka Pygmy chants with modern music after hearing on-site recordings of these tribes. Along with Eric Mouquet they created the project Deep Forest. Their first self-titled album (nominated for a Grammy) was released in 1992, with Sweet Lullaby being the smash single which would put Deep Forest on the musical map (UK Top 10 hit). The song "Sweet Lullaby" is adapted from a traditional song from the Solomon Islands. The album "Deep Forest" was dance-driven and the samples were heavily digitised and edited. It was re-released as a limited edition in 1994 under the name "World Mix".For their second album Boheme, Eric and Michel left behind the sounds of the forest and ventured into Eastern Europe bringing tender, lonesome Hungarian and Gypsy chants with upbeat, yet sad, music. Due to this shift, Dan Lacksman (then producer and sound-engineer) decided to go his separate way and continued working on other projects like Pangea. The chants were no longer brief, instead extended phrases had been sampled from Hungarian and Transylvanian sample CDs. The duo collaborated with Joe Zawinul during the recording of the album.The duo also performed and produced the remixes for the Youssou N'Dour single "Undecided" in 1994, with guest vocals by Neneh Cherry (who featured on n'Dour's break-through single "Seven Seconds"). That same year Deep Forest made remixes for Jon Anderson's "Deseo", Apollo 440's "Liquid Cool" and Cesária Évora's "My Fatigue is Endless". In 1996 Deep Forest collaborated with Peter Gabriel on the song "While the Earth Sleeps" which was written for the film Strange Days.The follow-up third album, Comparsa contained Spanish chants and sounds. The music is often upbeat and celebratory. The last song from the album "Media Luna", which was also released as a single, features a duet of Syrian and Spanish singers Abed Azrei and Ana Torroja. A recording of their live concert in Japan was also released on a CD called "Made in Japan". Although all the songs featured in the show are from the previous three albums, they have new often-longer arrangements and all the chants are performed and reinterpreted by live performers.In 1999 Deep Forest worked with Cheb Mami and Catherine Lara on the song "L'Enfant Fleur" which had been composed for Sol En Si (a French charity, who help HIV families).In 2000, Deep Forest released their fourth album, "Pacifique". It mixes pacific and island beats with electronic music."Music Detected" was the title of their fifth much-anticipated official Deep Forest album which saw the duo turn its attention to the Far East and the Orient for inspiration. It also signalled a change in musical style for Deep Forest, from dance to a more rock-influence.In 2003 Deep Forest released a compilation album "Essence of the Forest", with some remastered tracks.Music for FilmsIn December 2000, Deep Forest composed a soundtrack for a film. The album is entitled "Pacifique" and accompanies the French film "Le Prince du Pacifique". It is a return to a more ambient and melancholy sound, with piano themes riding above moody synth textures, Pacific Island chants, scratchy synth-leads and electronic drumming.In 2004 the duo composed a soundtrack for a Japanese movie "Kusa No Ran".The song "Sweet Lullaby" was used as the background music to Matt Harding's viral video "Where the Hell is Matt?"Deep Forest has two tracks on the soundtrack for the 1995 movie Strange Days: "Coral Lounge" and "While the Earth Sleeps" (featuring Peter Gabriel).One of Deep Forest songs "Night Bird" was used in the 1996 film version of Island of Doctor Moreau.Side projectsBoth Sanchez and Mouquet have worked over a variety of side-projects and solo albums. Sanchez has two solo albums out and produced Wes's successful debut album; while Mouquet created the group Dao Dezi, collaborated with Catherine Lara and arranged Thorgal, he composed and produced songs for Ana Torroja (Mecano), Jean Sebastien Lavoie, and recently composed and produced songs for Josh Groban. Eric Mouquet is now preparing 3 albums in the Deep Forest first album style, Deep Brasil, Deep Africa and Deep China. All these albums are grouped under the generic name of Deep Projects.Live performancesDeep Forest had their first live concert in 1996 at the G7 Summit in Lyon, France. They continued from there on to the Deep Forest 96' world tour. During the 96' tour, Deep Forest performed a number of shows in France, Hungary, Greece, Australia, Japan, Poland and USA. After the completion of Comparsa there was a 98' world tour. Since 98' there have been numerous live performances, including the Image Concerts. The 'Image' concerts took place in Japan. The concerts were based around the 'Image' album (similar to Pure Moods), and featured a number of famous Japanese artists, also including Deep Forest.DonationsA percentage of proceeds from Deep Forest's debut album sales went to the Pygmy Fund, set up to aid Zaire's pygmies in the transition from nomadic to agrarian subsistence, and to provide appropriate health care. A portion of the proceeds from 'Boheme' go to the Gyoörgy Martin Foundation, which aids in protecting the Romany (Gypsy) culture of Hungary. Deep Forest also actively supports the Sana Madagascar Association starting with 'Comparsa'. "The aim of the Sana Madagascar Association is to contribute protecting the environment, to collect instruments and precious recordings in order to allow the Malagasy man to save his culture, his nature and his traditional music."http://deepforestmusic.com/faq01.htm#df_nameInfluencesMouquet was influenced by his interests in house and techno music.AwardsNominations in France and the USA1993: Grammy Awards Best Album - World Music1993: MTV Awards Best Video - Sweet Lullaby1993: Victoires de la Musique Best Album - World Music1993: Victoires de la Musique Best Group of the Year1995: World Music Awards Winner - French group with the highest 1995 world sales1996: Grammy Awards Winner - Best Album - World Music1996: Victoires de la Musique - Best Group of the Year1996: Victoires de la Musique - Best Album - World MusicDiscographyAlbums1992 &ndash; Deep Forest (over 3 millions album sales)1994 &ndash; World Mix1995 &ndash; Boheme (over 4 million album sales)1998 &ndash; Comparsa (over 1 million album sales)1999 &ndash; Made in Japan2000 &ndash; Pacifique2002 &ndash; Music Detected2003 &ndash; Essence of Deep Forest2004 &ndash; Essence of the Forest2004 &ndash; Kusa No Ran (limited release in Japan only)Singles1992 &ndash; "Deep Forest" / UK #201992 &ndash; "Sweet Lullaby" / UK #10 ,USA #78 - over 1 000 000 copies sold.1992 &ndash; "White Whisper"1993 &ndash; "Forest Hymn"1994 &ndash; "Savana Dance" / UK #281994 &ndash; "Undecided"(collaboration with Youssou N'dour)1995 &ndash; "Boheme"1995 &ndash; "Boheme (The Remixes)"1995 &ndash; "Marta's Song" / UK #261995 &ndash; "Marta's Song (The Remixes)"1996 &ndash; "While the Earth Sleeps" (Collaboration with Peter Gabriel)1996 &ndash; "Bohemian Ballet (Promo)"1997 &ndash; "Freedom Cry"1997 &ndash; "Madazulu"1998 &ndash; "Media Luna"1998 &ndash; "Noonday Sun"1999 &ndash; "Hunting (Live)"1999 &ndash; "Sweet Lullaby (Live)"2000 &ndash; "Pacifique"2002 &ndash; "Endangered Species"2002 &ndash; "Will You Be Ready (Promo)"ReferencesExternal linksOfficial siteOfficial site of Michel SanchezOfficial Music Detected siteOfficial site of Dan Lacksman &amp; Synsound StudiosCategory:New Age musicians Category:World music groups Category:Electronic music Category:Grammy Award winners Category:Musical groups established in 1992bg:Дийп Форест de:Deep Forest et:Deep Forest es:Deep Forest fr:Deep Forest it:Deep Forest lt:Deep Forest nl:Deep Forest ja:ディープ・フォレスト pl:Deep Forest ru:Deep Forest sk:Deep Forest fi:Deep Forest