) 
| ICD9    =    
| Borderline personality disorder (BPD) is a psychiatric diagnosis in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-IV Personality Disorders 301.83301.83 Borderline Personality Disorder" in Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition. DOI: 10.1176/appi.books.9780890423349.3831. Retrieved on 2007-09-21.) that describes a prolonged disturbance of personality function characterized by depth and variability of moods. The disorder typically involves unusual levels of instability in mood; "black and white" thinking, or "splitting"; chaotic and unstable interpersonal relationships, self-image, identity, and behavior; as well as a disturbance in the individual's sense of self. In extreme cases, this disturbance in the sense of self can lead to periods of dissociation.(2004). Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders DSM-IV-TR (Text Revision). Washington, DC: American Psychiatric Association. ISBN 0890420246. DSM-IV &amp; DSM-IV-TR Borderline Personality Disorder criteria. BehaveNet.com. Retrieved on 2007-09-21. These disturbances can have a pervasive negative impact on many or all of the psychosocial facets of life. This includes difficulties maintaining relationships in work, home, and social settings. Attempted suicide and completed suicide are possible outcomes, especially without proper care and effective therapy. Onset of symptoms typically occurs during adolescence or young adulthood. Symptoms may persist for several years, but the majority of symptoms lessen in severity over time. with some individuals fully recovering. The mainstay of treatment is various forms of psychotherapy, although medication and other approaches may also improve symptoms.As with other mental disorders, the causes of BPD are complex and unknown. One finding is a history of childhood trauma (possibly child sexual abuse), although researchers have suggested diverse possible causes, such as a genetic predisposition, neurobiological factors, environmental factors or brain abnormalities. The prevalence of BPD in the United States has been calculated as 1 to 3 percent of the adult population, with approximately 75% of those diagnosed being female, 25% male.PubMed It has been found to account for 20 percent of psychiatric hospitalizations. Common comorbid (co-occurring) conditions are other mental disorders such as substance abuse, depression and other mood disorders, and other personality disorders. BPD is one of four diagnoses classified as "cluster B" ("dramatic-erratic") personality disorders typified by disturbances in impulse control and emotional dysregulation, the others being narcissistic, histrionic, and antisocial personality disorders.The term borderline, although it was used in this context as early as the 17th century, was employed by Adolph Stern in 1938 to describe a condition as being on the borderline between neurosis and psychosis. Because the term no longer reflects current thinking, there is an ongoing debate concerning whether this disorder should be renamed. There is related concern that the diagnosis stigmatizes people, usually women, and supports pejorative and discriminatory practices.HistorySince the earliest record of medical history, the coexistence of intense, divergent moods within an individual has been recognized by such writers as Homer, Hippocrates and Aretaeus, the last describing the vacillating presence of impulsive anger, melancholia and mania within a single person. After medieval suppression of the concept, it was revived by Bonet in 1684 who, using the term folie maniaco-mélancolique, noted the erratic and unstable moods with periodic highs and lows that rarely followed a regular course. His observations were followed by those of other writers who noted the same pattern, including writers such as the American psychiatrist C. Hughes in 1884 and J.C. Rosse in 1890, who described "borderline insanity". Kraepelin, in 1921, identified an "excitable personality" that closely parallels the borderline features outlined in the current concept of borderline.Adolf Stern wrote the first significant psychoanalytic work to use the term "borderline" in 1938, referring to a group of patients with what was thought to be a mild form of schizophrenia, on the borderline between neurosis and psychosis. For the next decade the term was in popular and colloquial use, a loosely conceived designation mostly used by theorists of the psychoanalytic and biological schools of thought. Increasingly, theorists who focused on the operation of social forces were recognized as well. During the 1940s and 1950s a variety of other terms were also used for this group of patients, such as "ambulatory schizophrenia" (Zilboorg), "preschizophrenia" (Rapaport), "latent schizophrenia" (Federn), "pseudoneurotic schizophrenia" (Hoch and Polatin), "schizotypal disorder" (Rado), and "borderline state" (Knight).The 1960s and 1970s saw a shift from thinking of the borderline syndrome as borderline schizophrenia to thinking of it as a borderline affective disorder (mood disorder), on the fringes of manic depression, cyclothymia and dysthymia. In DSM-II, stressing the affective components, the diagnosis was known as the personality disorder, Cyclothymic personality (Affective personality). In parallel to this evolution of the term "borderline" to refer to a distinct category of disorder, psychoanalysts such as Otto Kernberg were using it to refer to a broad spectrum of issues, describing an intermediate level of personality organization between neurotic and psychotic processes.Aronson, T (1985) Historical perspectives on the borderline concept: A review and critique. Psychiatry: Journal for the Study of Interpersonal Processes. Vol 48(3), pp. 209-222Standardized criteria were developedGunderson, J, Kolb, J and Austin, V (1981) The diagnostic interview for borderline patients. American Journal of Psychiatry 138(7) pp. 896-903 to distinguish BPD from affective disorders and other Axis I disorders, and BPD became a personality disorder diagnosis in 1980 with the publication of DSM-III.Oldham, J. (July 2004). "Borderline Personality Disorder: An Overview" Psychiatric Times XXI (8). Retrieved on 2007-09-21. The diagnosis was formulated predominantly in terms of mood and behavior, distinguished from sub-syndromal schizophrenia which was termed "Schizotypal personality disorder". The final terminology in use by the DSM today was decided by the DSM-IV Axis II Work Group of the American Psychiatric Association.DiagnosisDiagnosis is based on a clinical assessment by a qualified mental health professional. The assessment incorporates the patient's self-reported experiences as well as the clinician's observations. The resulting profile may be supported or corroborated by long term patterns of behavior as reported by family members, friends or co-workers. The list of criteria that must be met for diagnosis is outlined in the DSM-IV-TR.Borderline personality disorder was once classified as a subset of schizophrenia (describing patients with borderline schizophrenic tendencies). Today BPD is considered a relatively stable personality disorder and is used more generally to describe non psychotic individuals who display emotional disregulation, splitting, and an unstable self image.  Individuals with BPD are at high risk of developing other psychological disorders such as anxiety and depression. Other symptoms of BPD, such as dissociation, are frequently linked to severely traumatic childhood experiences which some put forth as one of the many root causes of the borderline personality. BPD has many similar characteristics to emotionally unstable personality disorder, subtype borderline; and complex post-traumatic stress disorder.DSM-IV-TR criteriaThe latest version of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-IV-TR), the widely-used American Psychiatric Association guide for clinicians seeking to diagnose mental illnesses, defines Borderline Personality Disorder (BPD) as: "a pervasive pattern of instability of interpersonal relationships, self-image and affects, as well as marked impulsivity, beginning by early adulthood and present in a variety of contexts.""Borderline Personality Disorder DSM IV Criteria". BPD Today. Retrieved on 2007-09-21. BPD is classed on "Axis II", as an underlying pervasive or personality condition, rather than "Axis I" for more circumscribed mental disorders. A DSM diagnosis of BPD requires any five out of nine listed criteria to be present for a significant period of time. There are thus 256 different combinations of symptoms that could result in a diagnosis, of which 136 have been found in practice in one study.Johansen, M.; S. Karterud, G. Pedersen, et al. (2004). "An investigation of the prototype validity of the borderline DSM-IV construct". Acta Psychiatrica Scandinavica 109 (4): 289–98. Retrieved on 2007-09-21. The criteria are:Frantic efforts to avoid real or imagined abandonment. including suicidal or self-mutilating behavior covered in Criterion 5''A pattern of unstable and intense interpersonal relationships characterized by alternating between extremes of idealization and devaluation.Identity disturbance: markedly and persistently unstable self-image or sense of self.Impulsivity in at least two areas that are potentially self-damaging (e.g., promiscuous sex, eating disorders, binge eating, substance abuse, reckless driving). not including suicidal or self-mutilating behavior covered in Criterion 5Recurrent suicidal behavior, gestures, threats, or self-mutilating behavior such as cutting, interfering with the healing of scars, or picking at oneself.Affective instability due to a marked reactivity of mood (e.g., intense episodic dysphoria, irritability, or anxiety usually lasting a few hours and only rarely more than a few days).Chronic feelings of emptiness, worthlessness.Inappropriate anger or difficulty controlling anger (e.g., frequent displays of temper, constant anger, recurrent physical fights).Transient, stress-related paranoid ideation, delusions or severe dissociative symptomsComparable diagnosesThe World Health Organization's ICD-10 has a comparable diagnosis called Emotionally unstable personality disorder - Borderline type (F60.31). This requires the following, in addition to the general criteria for personality disorder: disturbances in and uncertainty about self-image, aims, and internal preferences (including sexual); liability to become involved in intense and unstable relationships, often leading to emotional crisis; excessive efforts to avoid abandonment; recurrent threats or acts of self-harm; and chronic feelings of emptiness.The Chinese Society of Psychiatry's CCMD has a comparable diagnosis of Impulsive Personality Disorder (IPD). A patient diagnosed as having IPD must display "affective outbursts" and "marked impulsive behavior", plus at least three out of eight other symptoms. The construct has been described as a hybrid of the impulsive and borderline subtypes of the ICD-10's Emotionally Unstable Personality Disorder, and also incorporates six of the nine DSM BPD criteria.Zhong, J.; F. Leung (2007-01-05). "Should borderline personality disorder be included in the fourth edition of the Chinese classification of mental disorders?" Chin Med J (English) 120 (1): 77-82. Retrieved on 2007-09-21.Associated featuresIt has been noted that there is probably no other mental disorder about which so many articles and books have been written, yet about which so little is known based on empirical research.Arntz, A. (September 2005). "Introduction to special issue: cognition and emotion in borderline personality disorder." J Behav Ther Exp Psychiatry 36 (3): 167-72. Retrieved on 2007-09-21.Studies suggest that individuals with BPD tend to experience frequent, strong and long-lasting states of aversive tension, often triggered by perceived rejection, being alone, or perceived failure.Stiglmayr, C.E.; T. Grathwol, M.M. Leneham, et al. (May 2005). "Aversive tension in patients with borderline personality disorder: a computer-based controlled field study." Acta Psychiatrica Scandinavica 111 (5): 372-9. Retrieved on 2007-09-21. Individuals with BPD may show lability (changeability) between anger and anxiety or between depression and anxietyKoenigsberg H.W.; P.D. Harvey, V. Mitropoulou, et al. (May 2002). "Characterizing affective instability in borderline personality disorder". Am J Psychiatry 159 (5): 784-8. Retrieved on 2007-09-21. and temperamental sensitivity to emotive stimuli.Meyer, B.; M. Ajchenbrenner, D.P. Bowles (December 2005). "Sensory sensitivity, attachment experiences, and rejection responses among adults with borderline and avoidant features". J Personal Disord 19 (6): 641-58. Retrieved on 2007-09-21.The negative emotional states particularly associated with BPD have been grouped into four categories: extreme feelings in general; feelings of destructiveness or self-destructiveness; feelings of fragmentation or lack of identity; and feelings of victimization.Zanarini, M.C.; F.R. Frankenburg, C.J. DeLuca, et al. (1998). "The pain of being borderline: dysphoric states specific to borderline personality disorder". Harvard Review of Psychiatry 6 (4): 201-7. Retrieved on 2007-09-21.Individuals with BPD can be very sensitive to the way others treat them, reacting strongly to perceived criticism or hurtfulness. Their feelings about others often shift from positive to negative, generally after a disappointment or perceived threat of losing someone. Self-image can also change rapidly from extremely positive to extremely negative. Impulsive behaviors are common, including alcohol or drug abuse, unsafe sex, gambling, and recklessness in general.American Psychiatric Association (2001). "Psychiatric Services". Psychiatr Serv (52): 1569-70. Retrieved on 2007-09-21. Attachment studies suggest individuals with BPD, while being high in intimacy- or novelty-seeking, can be hyper-alert to signs of rejection or not being valued and tend towards insecure, avoidant or ambivalent, or fearfully preoccupied patterns in relationships.Levy, K.N.; K.B. Meehan, M. Weber, et al. (March &ndash; April 2005). "Attachment and borderline personality disorder: implications for psychotherapy". Psychopathology 38 (2): 64-74. Retrieved on 2007-09-21. They tend to view the world generally as dangerous and malevolent, and themselves as powerless, vulnerable, unacceptable and unsure in self-identity.Individuals with BPD are often described, including by some mental health professionals (and in the DSM-IV), as deliberately manipulative or difficult, but analyses and findings generally trace behaviors to inner pain and turmoil, powerlessness and defensive reactions, or limited coping and communication skills.Potter, N. (April 2006). "What is manipulative behavior, anyway?" J Personal Disord. 20 (2): 139-56; discussion 181-5. Retrieved on 2007-09-21.McKay, D.; C.A. Gavigan, S. Kulchycky (2004). "Social skills and sex-role functioning in borderline personality disorder: relationship to self-mutilating behavior". Cogn Behav Ther 33 (1): 27-35. Retrieved on 2007-09-21.Linehan, M. (1993). Cognitive-behavioral treatment of borderline personality disorder. New York: Guilford. ISBN 0898621836. There has been limited research on family members' understanding of borderline personality disorder and the extent of burden or negative emotion experienced or expressed by family members.Hoffman, P.D.; E. Buteau, J.M. Hooley, et al. (2003). "Family members' knowledge about borderline personality disorder: correspondence with their levels of depression, burden, distress, and expressed emotion". Family Process 42 (4): 469-78. Retrieved on 2007-09-21. Parents of individuals with BPD have been reported to show co-existing extremes of over-involvement and under-involvement.Allen, D.M.; R.G. Farmer (January &ndash; February 1996). "Family relationships of adults with borderline personality disorder". Compr Psychiatry 37 (1): 43-51. Retrieved on 2007-09-21. BPD has been linked to somewhat increased levels of chronic stress and conflict in romantic relationships, decreased satisfaction of romantic partners, abuse, and unwanted pregnancy; these links may largely be general to personality disorder and subsyndromal problems,Daley, S.E.; D. Burge, C. Hammen (August 2000). "Borderline personality disorder symptoms as predictors of 4-year romantic relationship dysfunction in young women: addressing issues of specificity". J Abnorm Psychol 109 (3): 451-60. Retrieved on 2007-09-21. but such issues are commonly raised in support groups and published literature for partners of individuals with BPD.Suicidal or self-harming behavior is one of the core diagnostic criteria in DSM IV-TR, and management of and recovery from this can be complex and challenging.Hawton, K.; E. Townsend, E. Arensman, et al. (1999). "Cochrane Collaboration Psychosocial and pharmacological treatments for deliberate self harm". Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews (4). Art. No.: CD001764. DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD001764. Retrieved on 2007-09-21. The suicide rate is approximately eight to ten percent.Borderline Personality Disorder Facts. BPD Today. Retrieved on 2007-09-21. Self-injury attempts are highly common among patients and may or may not be carried out with suicidal intent.Soloff, P.H.; J.A. Lis, T. Kelly, et al. (1994). "Self-mutilation and suicidal behavior in borderline personality disorder". Journal of Personality Disorders 8''' (4): 257-67.Gardner, D.L.; R.W. Cowdry (1985). "Suicidal and parasuicidal behavior in borderline personality disorder". Psychiatric Clinics of North America '''8 (2): 389-403. BPD is often characterized by multiple low lethality suicide attempts triggered by seemingly minor incidents, and less commonly by high lethality attempts that are attributed to impulsiveness or comorbid major depression, with interpersonal stressors appearing to be particularly common triggers.Brodsky, B.S.; S.A. Groves, M.A. Oquendo, et al. (June 2006). "Interpersonal precipitants and suicide attempts in borderline personality disorder". Suicide Life Threat Behav 36 (3): 313-22. Retrieved on 2007-09-21. Ongoing family interactions and associated vulnerabilities can lead to self-destructive behavior. Stressful life events related to sexual abuse have been found to be a particular trigger for suicide attempts by adolescents with a BPD diagnosis.Horesh, N.; J. Sever, A. Apter (July &ndash; August 2003). "A comparison of life events between suicidal adolescents with major depression and borderline personality disorder". Compr Psychiatry 44 (4): 277-83. Retrieved on 2007-09-21.Differential diagnosisBorderline personality disorder and mood disorders often appear concurrently. Some features of borderline personality disorder may overlap with those of mood disorders, complicating the differential diagnostic assessment.Bolton, S.; J.G. Gunderson (September 1996). "Distinguishing borderline personality disorder from bipolar disorder: differential diagnosis and implications". Am J Psychiatry 153 (9): 1202-7. Retrieved on 2007-09-21.(2001). "Treatment of Patients With Borderline Personality Disorder". APA Practice Guidelines. Retrieved on 2007-09-21."Differential Diagnosis of Borderline Personality Disorder". BPD Today. Retrieved on 2007-09-21.Both diagnoses involve symptoms commonly known as "mood swings". In borderline personality disorder, the term refers to the marked lability and reactivity of mood defined as emotional dysregulation. The behavior is typically in response to external psychosocial and intrapsychic stressors, and may arise or subside, or both, suddenly and dramatically and last for seconds, minutes, hours or days.Bipolar depression is generally more pervasive with sleep and appetite disturbances, as well as a marked nonreactivity of mood, whereas mood with respect to borderline personality and co-occurring dysthymia remains markedly reactive and sleep disturbance not acute.Goodwin, F.K.; K.R. Jamison (1990). Manic-Depressive Illness. New York: Oxford University Press, pp. 108-110. ISBN 0-19-503934-3.The relationship between bipolar disorder and borderline personality disorder has been debated. Some hold that the latter represents a subthreshold form of affective disorder,Akiskal, H.S.; B.I. Yerevanian, G.C. Davis, et al. (1985). "The nosologic status of borderline personality: Clinical and polysomnographic study". Am J Psychiatry (142): 192-8Gunderson, J.G.; G.R. Elliott (1985). "The interface between borderline personality disorder and affective disorder". Am J Psychiatry. (142):277-288. while others maintain the distinctness between the disorders, noting they often co-occur.McGlashan, T.H. (1983). "The borderline syndrome: Is it a variant of schizophrenia or affective disorder?" Arch Gen Psychiatry. (40): 1319-23.Pope, H.G. Jr.; J.M. Jonas, J.I. Hudson, et al. (1983). "The validity of DSM-III borderline personality disorder: A phenomenologic, family history, treatment response, and long term follow up study". Arch Gen Psychiatry (40): 23-30.Some findings suggest that BPD may lie on a bipolar spectrum, with a number of points of phenomenological and biological overlap between the affective lability criterion of borderline personality disorder and the extremely rapid cycling bipolar disorders.Mackinnon, D.F.; R. Pies (February 2006). "Affective instability as rapid cycling: theoretical and clinical implications for borderline personality and bipolar spectrum disorders". Bipolar Disord. 8''' (1): 1-14. Retrieved on 2007-09-21.Goldberg, Ivan MD (February 2006). "MMEDLINE Citations on The Borderline-Bipolar Connection". Bipolar disord. '''8 (1): 1-14. Retrieved on 2007-09-21. Some findings suggest that the DSM-IV BPD diagnosis mixes up two sets of unrelated items&mdash;an affective instability dimension related to Bipolar-II, and an impulsivity dimension not related to Bipolar-II.Benazzi, F. (January 2005). "Borderline personality-bipolar spectrum relationship". Prog Neuropsychopharmacol Biol Psychiatry 30 (1): 68-74. Retrieved on 2007-09-23.ComorbidityComorbid (co-occurring) conditions in BPD are common. When comparing individuals diagnosed with BPD to those diagnosed with other kinds of personality disorders, the former showed a higher rate of also meeting criteria for:Zanarini, M.C.; F.R. Frankenburg, E.D. Dubo, et al. (1998). "Axis I Comorbidity of Borderline Personality Disorder". Am J Psychiatry. (155): 1733-9. Retrieved on 2007-09-23.anxiety disordersmood disorders (including clinical depression and bipolar disorder)eating disorders (including anorexia nervosa and bulimia)and, to a lesser extent, somatoform disordersdissociative disorders; if all DSM criteria are met, it is recommended that the person should also be tested to have Dissociative Identity Disorder.Substance abuse is a common problem in BPD, whether due to impulsivity or as a coping mechanism, and 50% to 70% of psychiatric inpatients with BPD have been found to meet criteria for a substance use disorder, especially alcohol dependence or abuse which is often combined with the abuse of other drugs.Gregory, R. (2006). "Clinical Challenges in Co-occurring Borderline Personality and Substance Use Disorders". Psychiatric Times XXIII (13). Retrieved on 2007-09-23.PrevalenceFigures from surveys of the prevalence of diagnosable BPD in the general population vary, ranging from approximately one percent to two percent.Swartz, M.; D. Blazer, L. George, et al. (1990). "Estimating the prevalence of borderline personality disorder in the community". Journal of Personality Disorders 4''' (3): 257-72. Retrieved on 2007-09-23. The diagnosis appears to be several times more common in (especially young) women than in men, by as much as 3:1 according to the DSM-IV-TR(2000). "Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders". Washington, D.C.: American Psychiatric Association '''4 Text Revision. although the reasons for this are not clear.Skodol, A.E.; D.S. Bender (2003). "Why are women diagnosed borderline more than men?" Psychiatr Q 74 (4): 349-60. Retrieved on 2007-09-23.EtiologyAt least one researcher believes that BPD results from a combination that can involve a traumatic childhood, a vulnerable temperament, and stressful maturational events during adolescence or adulthood.Zanarini, M.C.; F.R. Frankenburg (1997). "Pathways to the development of borderline personality disorder". Journal of Personality Disorder. 11 (1): 93-104. Retrieved on 2007-09-21.Childhood abuse, neglect or separationNumerous studies have shown a strong correlation between child abuse, especially child sexual abuse, and development of BPD.Zanarini, M.C.; J.G. Gunderson, et al. (January &ndash; February 1989). "Childhood experiences of borderline patients". Comprehensive psychiatry 30 (1): 18-25. Retrieved on 2007-09-21.Brown G.R.; B. Anderson (1991). "Psychiatric morbidity in adult inpatients with childhood histories of sexual and physical abuse]. Am J Psychiatry 148 (1): 55-61. PMID 1984707.Herman, Judith (1997). Trauma and Recovery: The Aftermath of Violence--from Domestic Abuse to Political Terror. Basic Books. ISBN 0465087302. Many individuals with BPD report having had a history of abuse, neglect, or separation as young children.Zanarini M.C.; F.R. Frankenburg (1997). "Pathways to the development of borderline personality disorder". Journal of Personality Disorders 11 (1): 93-104. Patients with BPD have been found to be significantly more likely to report having been verbally, emotionally, physically, and sexually abused by caregivers of either gender. They were also much more likely to report having caregivers (of both genders) deny the validity of their thoughts and feelings. They were also reported to have failed to provide needed protection, and neglected their child's physical care. Parents (of both sexes) were typically reported to have withdrawn from the child emotionally, and to have treated the child inconsistently. Additionally, women with BPD who reported a previous history of neglect by a female caregiver and abuse by a male caregiver were consequently at significantly higher risk for being sexually abused by a noncaregiver (not a parent).Zanarini, M.C.; F.R. Frankenburg (2000. "Biparental failure in the childhood experiences of borderline patients". J Personal Disord 14 (3):264-73. Retrieved on 2007-09-21. It has been suggested that children who experience chronic early maltreatment and attachment difficulties may go on to develop borderline personality disorder.Dozier, M.; K. C. Stovall, et al. (1999). "Attachment and psychopathology in adulthood" in Cassidy, J.; P. Shaver (Eds.), Handbook of attachment pp. 497–519. New York: Guilford Press.Other developmental factorsSome studies suggest that BPD may not necessarily be a trauma-spectrum disorder and that it is biologically distinct from the post-traumatic stress disorder that could be a precursor. The personality symptom clusters seem to be related to specific abuses, but they may be related to more persistent aspects of interpersonal and family environments in childhood.Otto Kernberg formulated the theory of Borderline Personality based on a premise of failure to develop in childhood. Writing in the psychoanalytic tradition, Kernberg argued that failure to achieve the developmental task of psychic clarification of self and other can result in an increased risk to develop varieties of psychosis, while failure to overcoming splitting results in an increased risk to develop a borderline personality.Kernberg, O. (2000). Borderline Conditions and Pathological Narcissism. New York: Aronson. ISBN 0876687621.There is evidence for the central role of family in the development of BPD, including interactions that are negative and critical rather than supportive and empathic, with parental and family behaviors transacting with the child's own behaviors and emotional vulnerabilities, although no prospective studies have been conducted.Fruzzetti, A.E.; C. Shenk, P.D. Hoffman (2005). "Family interaction and the development of borderline personality disorder: a transactional model". Dev Psychopathol. 17 (4): 1007-30. Retrieved on 2007-09-21.GeneticsAn overview of the existing literature suggested that traits related to BPD are influenced by genes, and if personality is indeed heritable, then BPD may very well be as well, but studies have had methodological problems and the links are not yet clear.Torgersen, S. (March 2000). "Genetics of patients with borderline personality disorder". Psychiatr Clin North Am 23 (1): 1-9. Retrieved on 2007-09-23. A major twin study found that if one identical twin met criteria for BPD, the other also met criteria in 35 percent of cases.Torgersen, S.; S. Lygren, P.A. Oien, et al. (November - December 2000). "A twin study of personality disorders". Compr Psychiatry 41 (6): 416-25. Retrieved on 2007-09-23.Twin, sibling and other family studies indicate a partially heritable basis for impulsive aggression, but studies of serotonin-related genes to date have suggested only modest contributions to behavior.NeurofunctionNeurotransmitters implicated in BPD include serotonin, norepinephrine and acetylcholine (related to various emotions and moods); GABA, the brain's major inhibitory neurotransmitter (which can stabilize mood change); and glutamate, an excitatory neurotransmitter. Enhanced amygdala activation in BPD has been identified by some researchers as reflecting the intense and slowly subsiding emotions commonly observed in BPD in response to even low-level stressors.NIMH · Borderline Personality Disorder&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; It is thought by some researchers the activation of both the amygdala and prefrontal cortical areas can reflect attempts to control intensive emotions during the recall of unresolved life events.Beblo, T.; M. Driessen, M. Mertens, et al. (June 2006). "Functional MRI correlates of the recall of unresolved life events in borderline personality disorder". Psychol Med 36 (6): 845-56. Retrieved on 2007-09-23. Impulsivity or aggression, as sometimes seen in BPD, has been linked to alterations in serotonin function and specific brain regions in the cingulate and the medial and orbital prefrontal cortex by some researchers.Goodman M.; A. New, L. Siever (2004). "Trauma, genes, and the neurobiology of personality disorders". Ann N Y Acad Sci (1032): 104-16. Retrieved on 2007-09-23.TreatmentThe mainstay of treatment is various forms of psychotherapy, although medication and other approaches may also improve symptoms.PsychotherapyThere has traditionally been skepticism about the psychological treatment of personality disorders, but several specific types of psychotherapy for BPD have developed in recent years. The limited studies to date do not allow confident claims of effectiveness but do suggest that people with a diagnosis of BPD can benefit on at least some outcome measures.Binks, C.A.; M. Fenton, L. McCarthy, et al. (2006). "Psychological therapies for people with borderline personality disorder". Cochrane Database Systematic Reviews 25 (1): CD005652. Retrieved on 2007-09-23. Simple supportive therapy alone may enhance self-esteem and mobilize the existing strengths of individuals with BPD.Aviram, R.B.; D.J. Hellerstein, J. Gerson, et al. (May 2004). "Adapting supportive psychotherapy for individuals with Borderline personality disorder who self-injure or attempt suicide". J Psychiatr Pract 10 (3): 145-55. Retrieved on 2007-09-23. Specific psychotherapies may involve sessions over several months or, as is particularly common for personality disorders, several years. Psychotherapy can often be conducted either with individuals or with groups. Group therapy can aid the learning and practice of interpersonal skills and self-awareness by individuals with BPDGunderson, J.G. MD (2006-04-10). "&quot;Borderline Personality Disorder - Psychotherapies". American Medical Network. Retrieved on 2007-09-23. although drop-out rates may be problematic.Hummelen, B.; T. Wilberg, S. Karterud (January 2007). "Interviews of female patients with borderline personality disorder who dropped out of group psychotherapy". Int J Group Psychother 57 (1): 67-91. Retrieved on 2007-09-23.Dialectical behavioral therapyIn the 1990s, a new psychosocial treatment termed dialectical behavioral therapy (DBT) became established in the treatment of BPD, having originally developed as an intervention for patients with suicidal behavior.Koerner, K.; M.M. Linehan (2000). "Research on dialectical behavior therapy for patients with borderline personality disorder". Psychiatric Clinics of North America 23 (1): 151-67. Retrieved on 2007-09-23.Dialectical behavior therapy is derived from cognitive-behavioral techniques (and can be seen as a form of CBT) but emphasizes an exchange and negotiation between therapist and client, between the rational and the emotional, and between acceptance and change (hence dialectic). Treatment targets are agreed upon, with self-harm issues taking priority. The learning of new skills is a core component - including mindfulness, interpersonal effectiveness (e.g. assertiveness and social skills), coping adaptively with distress and crises; and identifying and regulating emotional reactions.DBT can be based on a biosocial theory of personality functioning in which BPD is seen as a biological disorder of emotional regulation in a social environment experienced as invalidating by the borderline patient.Murphy, E. T. PhD; J. Gunderson MD (January 1999). "A Promising TreatmentBorderline Personality Disorder". McLean Hospital Psychiatic Update. Retrieved on 2007-09-23.Dialectical behavioral therapy has been found to significantly reduce self-injury and suicidal behavior in individuals with BPD, beyond the effect of usual or expert treatment, and to be better accepted by clients.Verheul, R.; L.M. Van Den Bosch, M.W. Koeter, et al. (February 2003). "Dialectical behavioural therapy for women with borderline personality disorder: 12-month, randomised clinical trial in The Netherlands". British Journal of Psychiatry (182): 135-40. Retrieved on 2007-09-23.Linehan, M.M.; K.A. Comtois, A.M. Murray, et al. (July 2006). "Two-year randomized controlled trial and follow-up of dialectical behavior therapy vs therapy by experts for suicidal behaviors and borderline personality disorder". Archives of General Psychiatry 63 (7): 757-66. Retrieved on 2007-09-23. although whether it has additional efficacy in the overall treatment of BPD appears less clear. Training nurses in the use of DBT has been found to replace a therapeutic pessimism with a more optimistic understanding and outlook.Hazelton, M.; R. Rossiter, J. Milner (February - March 2006). "Managing the 'unmanageable': training staff in the use of dialectical behaviour therapy for borderline personality disorder". Contemporary Nurse 21 (1): 120-30. Retrieved on 2007-09-23.Schema therapySchema therapy (also called schema-focused therapy) is an integrative approach based on cognitive-behavioral or skills-based techniques along with object relations and gestalt approaches. It directly targets deeper aspects of emotion, personality and schemas (fundamental ways of categorizing and reacting to the world). The treatment also focuses on the relationship with the therapist (including a process of "limited re-parenting"), daily life outside of therapy, and traumatic childhood experiences. It was developed by Jeffrey Young and became established in the 1990s. Limited recent research suggests that it is significantly more effective than transference-focused psychotherapy, with half of individuals with borderline personality disorder assessed as having achieved full recovery after four years, with two thirds showing clinically significant improvement.Giesen-Bloo, J.; R. van Dyck, P. Spinhoven, et al. (June 2005). "Outpatient psychotherapy for borderline personality disorder: randomized trial of schema-focused therapy vs transference-focused psychotherapy". Archives of General Psychiatry 63 (6): 649-58. Retrieved on 2007-09-23.Darden, M. (2006-10-10). "New hope for an 'untreatable' mental illness". EurekAlert! Retrieved on 2007-09-23. Another very small trial has also suggested efficacy.Nordahl, H.M., T.E. Nysaeter (September 2005). "Schema therapy for patients with borderline personality disorder: a single case series". J Behav Ther Exp Psychiatry 36 (3): 254-64. Retrieved on 2007-09-23.Cognitive behavioral therapyCognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) is the most widely used and established psychological treatment for mental disorders, but has appeared less successful in BPD, due partly to difficulties in developing a therapeutic relationship and treatment adherence. Approaches such as DBT and Schema-focused therapy developed partly as an attempt to expand and add to traditional CBT, which uses a limited number of sessions to target specific maladaptive patterns of thought, perception and behavior. A recent study did find a number of sustained benefits of CBT, in addition to treatment as usual, after an average of 16 sessions over one year.Davidson, K.; J. Norrie, P. Tyrer, et al. (October 2006). "The effectiveness of cognitive behavior therapy for borderline personality disorder: results from the borderline personality disorder study of cognitive therapy (BOSCOT) trial". Journal of Personality Disorders 20 (5): 450-65. Retrieved on 2007-09-23.Marital or family therapyMarital therapy can be helpful in stabilizing the marital relationship and in reducing marital conflict and stress that can worsen BPD symptoms. Family therapy or family psychoeducation can help educate family members regarding BPD, improve family communication and problem solving, and provide support to family members in dealing with their loved one's illness.Two patterns of family involvement can help clinicians plan family interventions: overinvolvement and neglect. Borderline patients who are from overinvolved families are often actively struggling with a dependency issue by denial or by anger at their parents.Interest in the use of psychoeducation and skills training approaches for families with borderline members is growing.PsychoanalysisThe term dates 1884, it is C.Hugues who spoke about subjects oscillating throughout their whole life between the limits of about insanities and about the normality. A.Stern in 1938 takes back the term to describe a " hypersentimentality of the subjects, their defensive rigidity and them little self-respect." It is psychanalyse that the term " borderline " was developped to define an "oedipian intermédaire organization". Edward Glover (psychoanalyst) for example spoke about "transitional states " (1932).'' Addictions are réals states borderline in the sense that they are one foot in the psychoses and the other one in the neurosises. (...). It have their root in the paranoid states and, occasionally in the dominant melancolic state''. He had established a plan which placed very clearly the place of the borderline in touch with the other disorders'' ib. p. 838. Since, the works of Otto Kernberg, the french Jean Bergeret developed the concept which adapted itself to the modern psychoanalysis. It is in the appartion of the DSM 4 that the term took two orientations: psychiatric one behavioral and the other, included in a psychoanalytical psychopathology. According to this split, the diagnosis takes on, or a character objectivizing with ascendancy of symptoms to be eradicated or it indicates a particular type of patients of psychoanalysts to treat in modalities different from those typical cures Harold SearlesMy Work With Borderline Patients, Publisher: Jason Aronson, 1994, ISBN 1568214014, John Steiner : Psychic Retreats: Pathological Organizations in Psychotic, Neurotic and Borderline Patients, Publisher: Routledge; 1993, ISBN 0415099242, Bateman, A.; P. Fonagy (January 2001). "Treatment of borderline personality disorder with psychoanalytically oriented partial hospitalization: an 18-month follow-up". American Journal of Psychiatry 158 (1): 36-42. Retrieved on 2007-09-23., .Transference-focused psychotherapy Transference-focused psychotherapy (TFP) is a form of psychoanalytic therapy dating to the 1960s, rooted in the conceptions of Otto Kernberg on BPD and its underlying structure (borderline personality organization). Unlike in the case of traditional psychoanalysis, the therapist plays a very active role in TFP. In session the therapist works on the relationship between the patient and the therapist. The therapist will try to explore and clarify aspects of this relationship so the underlying object relations dyads become clear. Some limited research on TFP suggests it may reduce some symptoms of BPD by affecting certain underlying processes,Levy, K.N.; J.F. Clarkin, L.N. Scott, et al. (2006). "The mechanisms of change in the treatment of borderline personality disorder with transference focused psychotherapy". Journal of Clinical Psychology (62): 481-501. Retrieved on 2007-09-23. and that TFP in comparison to dialectical behavioral therapy and supportive therapy results in increased reflective functioning (the ability to realistically think about how others think) and a more secure attachment style.Levy, K.N.; K.B. Meehan, K.M. Kelly, et al. (2006). "Change in attachment patterns and reflective function in a randomized control trial of transference-focused psychotherapy for borderline personality disorder". Journal of Consulting and Clinical Psychology (74): 1027-1040. Furthermore, TFP has been shown to be as effective as DBT in improvement of suicidal behavior, and has been more effective than DBT in alleviating anger and in reducing verbal or direct assaultive behavior.Clarkin, J.F. PhD; K.N. Levy, PhD, M. F. Lenzenweger, PhD, et al. (June 2007). "Evaluating Three Treatments for Borderline Personality Disorder: A Multiwave Study". The American Journal of Psychiatry (164): 922-928. . Retrieved on 2007-09-23. Limited research suggests that TFP appears to be less effective than schema-focused therapy, while being more effective than no treatment.Cognitive analytic therapyCognitive analytic therapy (CAT) combines cognitive and psychoanalytic approaches and has been adapted for use with individuals with BPD with mixed results.Ryle, A. (February 2004). "The contribution of cognitive analytic therapy to the treatment of borderline personality disorder". J Personal Disord 18 (1): 3-35. Retrieved on 2007-09-23.Mentalization based treatmentMentalization based treatment, developed by Peter Fonagy and Antony Bateman, rests on the assumption that people with BPD have a disturbance of attachment due to problems in the early childhood parent-child relationship.Fonagy P George Gergely G and Target M (2007)The parent–infant dyad and the construction of the subjective self. Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry 48:3/4, 288–328  Fonagy and Bateman hypothesize that inadequate parental mirroring and attunement in early childhood lead to a deficit in mentalization, "the capacity to think about mental states as separate from, yet potentially causing actions",Bateman A and Fonagy P (2004) Psychotherapy for Borderline Personality Disorder: Mentalization based treatment. Oxford University Press p. 71 in other words the capacity to intuitively understand the thoughts, intentions and motivations of others, and the connections between one's own thoughts, feelings and actions. Mentalization failure is thought to underlie BPD patients' problems with impulse control, mood instability and difficulties sustaining intimate relationships. Mentalization based treatment aims to develop patients' self-regulation capacity through a psychodynamically informed multi-modal treatment program which incorporates group psychotherapy and individual psychotherapy in a therapeutic community, partial hospitalization or out-patient context.Bateman A and Fonagy P (2004) Psychotherapy for Borderline Personality Disorder: Mentalization based treatment. Oxford University Press Ch. 5 In a randomized controlled trial, a group of BPD patients received 18 months of intensive partial-hospitalization MBT followed by 18 months of group psychotherapy, and were followed up over five years. The treatment group showed significant benefits aross a range of measures including number of suicide attempts, reduced time in hospital, and reduced use of medication.Bateman A & Fonagy P (2008) 8-Year Follow-Up of Patients Treated for Borderline Personality Disorder. American Journal of Psychiatry, 165 (5)MedicationA number of medications are used in conjunction with BPD treatments, although the evidence base is limited. As BPD has been traditionally considered a primarily psychosocial condition, medication is intended to treat co-morbid symptoms, such as anxiety and depression, rather than BPD itself.Binks, C.A.; M. Fenton, L. McCarthy, et al. (2006). "Pharmacological interventions for people with borderline personality disorder". The Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews (4). Retrieved on 2007-09-23.AntidepressantsSelective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) antidepressants have been shown in randomized controlled trials to improve the attendant symptoms of anxiety and depression, such as anger and hostility, associated with BPD in some patients. According to Listening to Prozac, it takes a higher dose of an SSRI to treat mood disorders associated with BPD than depression alone. It also takes about three months for benefit to appear, compared to the three to six weeks for depression.AntipsychoticsThe newer atypical antipsychotics are claimed to have an improved adverse effect profile than the typical antipsychotics. Antipsychotics are also sometimes used to treat distortions in thinking or false perceptions.Siever, L.J.; H.W. Koenigsberg (2000). "The frustrating no-man's-land of borderline personality disorder" (PDF). Cerebrum, The Dana Forum on Brain Science 2 (4). Retrieved on 2007-09-23. Use of antipsychotics is generally short-term.One meta-analysis of two randomly controlled trials, four non-controlled open-label studies and eight case reports has suggested that several atypical antipsychotics, including olanzapine, clozapine, quetiapine and risperidone, may help BPD patients with psychotic-like, impulsive or suicidal symptoms.Grootens, K.P.; R.J. Verkes (January 2005). "Emerging evidence for the use of atypical antipsychotics in borderline personality disorder". Pharmacopsychiatry 38 (1): 20-3. Retrieved on 2007-09-23. However, there are numerous adverse effects of antipsychotics, notably Tardive dyskinesia (TD).Casey, D.E. (1985). "Tardive dyskinesia: reversible and irreversible". Psychopharmacology Suppl (2): 88-97. Retrieved on 2007-09-23. Atypical antipsychotics are known for often causing considerable weight gain, with associated health complications.Ruetsch, O.; A. Viala, H. Bardou, et al. (July - August 2005). "Psychotropic drugs induced weight gain: a review of the literature concerning epidemiological data, mechanisms and management". Encephale (4 Pt 1): 507-16. Retrieved on 2007-09-23.Services and recoveryIndividuals with BPD sometimes use mental health services extensively. People with this diagnosis accounted for around 20% of psychiatric hospitalizations in one survey.Zanarini, M.C.; Frankenburg, F.R. (March - April 2001). "Treatment histories of borderline inpatients". Comprehensive Psychiatry 42(2): 144-50. Retrieved on 2007-09-23. The majority of BPD patients continue to use outpatient treatment in a sustained manner for several years, but the number using the more restrictive and costly forms of treatment, such as inpatient admission, declines with time.Zanarini, M.C.; F.R. Frankenburg, J. Hennen, et al. (January 2004). "Mental health service utilization by borderline personality disorder patients and Axis II comparison subjects followed prospectively for 6 years". J Clin Psychiatry 65 (1): 28-36. Retrieved 2007-09-23.; Experience of services varies.Fallon, P. (August 2003). "Travelling through the system: the lived experience of people with borderline personality disorder in contact with psychiatric services". J Psychiatr Ment Health Nurs 10 (4): 393-401. Retrieved on 2007-09-23. Assessing suicide risk can be a challenge for mental health services (and patients themselves tend to underestimate the lethality of self-injurious behaviours) with typically a chronically elevated risk of suicide much above that of the general population and a history of multiple attempts when in crisis.Links, P.; Y. Bergmans, S. Warwar (July 1 2004). "Assessing Suicide Risk in Patients With Borderline Personality Disorder". Psychiatric Times XXI (8). Retrieved on 2007-09-23.Particular difficulties have been observed in the relationship between care providers and individuals diagnosed with BPD. A majority of psychiatric staff report finding individuals with BPD moderately to extremely difficult to "deal" with, and more difficult than other client groups.Cleary, M.; N. Siegfried, G. Walter (September 2002). "Experience, knowledge and attitudes of mental health staff regarding clients with a borderline personality disorder". Australian and New Zealand Journal of Ophthalmology 11 (3): 186-191. Retrieved on 2007-09-23. On the other hand, those with the diagnosis of BPD have reported that the term "BPD" felt like a pejorative label rather than a helpful diagnosis, that self destructive behaviour was wrongly perceived as manipulative, and that they had limited access to care.Nehls, N. (August 1999). "Borderline personality disorder: the voice of patients". Res Nurs Health (22): 285–93. Retrieved on 2007-09-23. Attempts are made to improve public and staff attitudes.Deans, C.; E. Meocevic "Attitudes of registered psychiatric nurses towards patients diagnosed with borderline personality disorder". Contemporary Nurse. Retrieved on 2007-09-23.Krawitz, R. (July 2004). "Borderline personality disorder: attitudinal change following training". Australian and New Zealand Journal of Psychiatry 38 (7): 554. Retrieved on 2007-09-23.Combining pharmacotherapy and psychotherapyIn practice, psychotherapy and medication may often be combined but there are limited data on clinical practice. Efficacy studies often assess the effectiveness of interventions when added to 'treatment as usual' (TAU), which may involve general psychiatric services, supportive counselling, medication and psychotherapy.One small study, which excluded individuals with a comorbid Axis 1 disorder, has indicated that outpatients undergoing Dialectical Behavioral Therapy and taking the antipsychotic Olanzapine show significantly more improvement on some measures related to BPD, compared to those undergoing DBT and taking a placebo pill,Soler, J.; J.C. Pascual, J. Campins, et al. (June 2005). "Double-blind, placebo-controlled study of dialectical behavior therapy plus olanzapine for borderline personality disorder". Am J Psychiatry 162 (6): 1221-4. Retrieved on 2007-09-23. although they also experienced weight gain and raised cholesterol. Another small study found that patients who had undergone DBT and then took fluoxetine (Prozac) showed no significant improvements, whereas those who underwent DBT and then took a placebo pill did show significant improvements.Simpson, E.B.; S. Yen, E. Costello, et al. (March 2004). "Combined dialectical behavior therapy and fluoxetine". Journal of Clinical Psychiatry 65 (3): 379-85. Retrieved on 2007-09-23.Difficulties in therapyThere can be unique challenges in the treatment of BPD, for example hospital care.Kaplan, C.A. (September 1986). "The challenge of working with patients diagnosed as having a borderline personality disorder". Nurs Clin North Am 21 (3): 429-38. Retrieved on 2007-09-23. In psychotherapy, a client may be unusually sensitive to rejection and abandonment and may react negatively (e.g., by harming themselves or withdrawing from treatment) if they sense this. In addition, clinicians may emotionally distance themselves from individuals with BPD for self-protection or due to the stigma associated with the diagnosis, leading to a self-fulfilling prophecy and a cycle of stigmatization to which both patient and therapist can contribute.Aviram, R.B.; B.S. Brodsky, B. Stanley (October 2006). "Borderline Personality Disorder, Stigma, and Treatment Implications". Harvard Review of Psychiatry 14 (5). Retrieved on 2007-09-23.Some psychotherapies, for example DBT, were developed partly to overcome problems with interpersonal sensitivity and maintaining a therapeutic relationship. Adherence to medication regimens is also a problem, due in part to adverse effects, with drop-out rates of between 50 percent and 88 percent in medication trials.American Psychiatric Association (October 2001). "Practice Guideline for the Treatment of Patients With Borderline Personality Disorder". Am J Psychiatry. Comorbid disorders, particularly substance use disorders, can complicate attempts to achieve remission.Zanarini, M.C.; F.R. Frankenburg, J. Hennen, et al. (2004). "Axis I comorbidity in patients with borderline personality disorder: 6-year follow-up and prediction of time to remission". Am J Psychiatry 161 (11): 2108-14. Retrieved on 2007-09-23.Other strategiesPsychotherapies and medications form a part of the overall context of mental health services and psychosocial needs related to BPD. The evidence base is limited for both, and some individuals may forego them or not benefit (enough) from them. It has been argued that diagnostic categorisation can have limited utility in directing therapeutic work in this area, and that in some cases it is only with reference to past and current relationships that "borderline" behavior can be understood as partly adaptive and how people can best be helped.Warner, S.; T. Wilkins (2004). "Between Subjugation and Survival: Women, Borderline Personality Disorder and High Security Mental Hospitals". Journal of Contemporary Psychotherapy 34 (3): 1573-3564. Retrieved on 2007-09-23.Numerous other strategies may be used, including alternative medicine techniques (see List of branches of alternative medicine), exercise and physical fitness, including team sports; occupational therapy techniques, including creative arts; having structure and routine to the days, particularly through employment - helping feelings of competence (e.g. self-efficacy), having a social role and being valued by others, boosting self-esteem.Flory, L. (2004). Understanding borderline personality disorder. London: Mind. Retrieved on 2007-09-23.Some Evangelical Christians, for example in regions of the United States, state that the cause of Borderline personality disorder is demon possession and that therefore the best treatment is exorcism.Group-based psychological services encourage clients to socialize and participate in both solitary and group activities. These may be in day centers. Therapeutic communities are an example of this, particularly in Europe, although their usage has declined many have specialised in the treatment of severe personality disorder.Campling, P. (2001). "Therapeutic communities". Advances in Psychiatric Treatment (7): 365-372. Retrieved on 2007-09-23.Psychiatric rehabilitation services aimed at helping people with mental health problems, to reduce psychosocial disability, engage in meaningful activities, and avoid stigma and social exclusion may be of value to people who suffer from BPD. There are also many mutual-support or co-counseling groups run by and for individuals with BPD. Services, or individual goals, are increasingly based on a recovery model that supports and emphasizes an individual's personal journey and potential.Michael T. Compton (2007) Recovery: Patients, Families, Communities Conference Report, Medscape Psychiatry & Mental Health, October 11-14, 2007Data indicate that the diagnosis of BPD is more variable over time than the DSM implies. Substantial percentages (for example around a third, depending on criteria) of people diagnosed with BPD achieve remission within a year or two. A longitudinal study found that, six years after being diagnosed with BPD, 56% showed good psychosocial functioning, compared to 26% at baseline. Although vocational achievement was more limited even compared to those with other personality disorders, those whose symptoms had remitted were significantly more likely to have a good relationship with a spouse/partner and at least one parent, good work/school performance, a sustained work/school history, good global functioning and good psychosocial functioning.Zanarini, M.C.; F.R. Frankenburg, J. Hennen, et al. (February 2005). "Psychosocial functioning of borderline patients and axis II comparison subjects followed prospectively for six years". J Personal Disord 19 (1): 19-29. Retrieved on 2007-09-23.ControversiesGenderThe concept of BPD has been criticised from a feminist perspective.Shaw and Proctor (2005). "Women at the Margins: A Critique of the Diagnosis of Borderline Personality Disorder" (PDF). Feminism & Psychology 15: 483-90. Retrieved on 2007-09-21, and the question has been raised of why BPD is diagnosed somewhat more commonly in women than in men. Some think that people with BPD commonly have a history of sexual abuse in childhood,Zanarini M and Frankenburg F (1997) Pathways to the development of borderline personality disorder. Journal of Personality Disorders 11(1) , 93-104 and since girls are much more commonly sexually abused than boys, it is inevitable that BPD would be more common in women. BPD is a stigmatizing diagnosis which evokes negative responses from health care providers (see below), so it is suggested that women who have survived sexual abuse in childhood are in this way re-traumatized by abusive mental health services.Nehls, N (1998) Borderline Personality Disorder: Gender stereotypes, stigma, and limited system of care. Issues in Mental Health Nursing, 19:2, 97 — 112 DOI: 10.1080/016128498249105 accessed 13 June 2008 Some feminist writers have suggested that it would be better to give these women the diagnosis of a post-traumatic disorder as this would acknowledge their abuse, but others have argued that the use of the PTSD diagnosis merely medicalizes abuse rather than addressing the root causes in society.Becker, D (2000) When she was bad: Borderline personality disorder in a posttraumatic age. American Journal of Orthopsychiatry, 70(4) 422-432 Clinicians respond differentially to men and women presenting with the same symptoms, for example women presenting with angry, promiscuous behaviour are likely to be diagnosed with BPD, whereas men presenting with identical symptoms will be diagnosed with Antisocial personality disorder. Women may be more likely to receive a personality disorder diagnosis if they reject the female role by being hostile, successful, or sexually active; alternatively if a woman presents with psychiatric symptoms but does not conform to a traditional passive sick role, she may be labelled as a 'difficult' patient and given the stigmatizing diagnosis of BPD.Simmons, D (1992) Gender issues and borderline personality disorder: Why do females dominate the diagnosis? Archives of Psychiatric Nursing, 6(4), 219-223StigmaThe features of BPD include emotional instability, intense unstable interpersonal relationships, a need for relatedness and a fear of rejection. As a result, people with BPD often evoke intense emotions in those around them. Pejorative terms such as “difficult”, “treatment resistant,” “manipulative,” “demanding,” and “attention seeking" are often used, and may become a self-fulfilling prophecy as the clinician's negative response triggers further self-destructive behaviour.Aviram, Ron B., Brodsky, Beth S. and Stanley, Barbara (2006) Borderline Personality Disorder, Stigma, and Treatment Implications, Harvard Review of Psychiatry, 14:5, 249 - 256 In psychoanalytic theory, this stigmatization may be thought to reflect "countertransference" (when a therapist projects their own feelings on to a client), as people with BPD are prone to use defence mechanisms such as splitting and projective identification. Thus the diagnosis "often says more about the clinician's negative reaction to the patient than it does about the patient ... as an expression of countertransference hate, borderline explains away the breakdown in empathy between the therapist and the patient and becomes an institutional epithet in the guise of pseudoscientific jargon" (Aronson, p 217). This inadvertent countertransference can give rise to inappropriate clinical responses including excessive use of medication, inappropriate mothering, and punitive use of limit-setting and interpretation.Vaillant G (1992) The beginning of wisdom is never calling a patient Borderline. Journal of Psychotherapy Practice and Research 1(2) 117-34 People with BPD are seen as among the most challenging groups of patients, requiring a high degree of skill and training in the psychiatrists, therapists and nurses involved in their treatment.Hinshelwood RD (1999) The difficult patient. British Journal of Psychiatry 174:187–90 People labeled with "Borderline Personality Disorder" also often feel it is unhelpful and stigmatizing as well as simply inaccurate, supporting and adding to calls for a name change.Bogod, E. "Borderline Personality Disorder Label Creates Stigma". mental-health-matters.com. Retrieved on 2007-09-21.TerminologyBecause of the above concerns, and because of a move away from the original theoretical basis for the term (see history), there is ongoing debate about renaming BPD. Alternative suggestions for names include Emotional regulation disorder or Emotional dysregulation disorder. According to TARA, (Treatment and Research Advancement Association for Personality Disorders) this terminology has "the most likely chance of being adopted by the American Psychiatric Association."Porr, Valerie (November 2001). How Advocacy is Bringing Borderline Personality Disorder Into the Light. tara4bpd.org Axis II. Retrieved on 2007-09-21. Emotional regulation disorder is the term favored by Marsha Linehan, pioneer of one of the most popular types of BPD therapy. Impulse disorder and Interpersonal regulatory disorder are other valid alternatives, according to John Gunderson of McLean Hospital in the United States. Dyslimbia has been suggested by Leland HellerHeller, L. MD. "A Possible New Name For Borderline Personality Disorder". Biological Unhappiness. Retrieved on 2007-09-21. and Mercurial disorder has been proposed by McLean Hospital's Mary Zanarini.Hunter, Aina (2006-01-24). "Personality, Interrupted". The Village Voice. Retrieved on 2007-09-21. Another term advanced (for example by psychiatrist Carolyn Quadrio) is Post Traumatic Personality Disorganisation (PTPD), reflecting the condition's status as (often) both a form of chronic Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) and a personality disorder in the belief that it is a common outcome of developmental or attachment trauma.Quadrio, C. (December 2005). "Axis One/Axis Two: A disordered borderline". Australian & New Zealand Journal of Psychiatry 39 (Suppl. 1): 141-156.Sociological and cultural aspectsCultural referencesSeveral films have portrayed characters either explicitly diagnosed or with traits strongly suggestive of the diagnosis which have been the subject of discussion by psychiatrists and film experts alike. The films Play Misty for Me and Fatal Attraction are two cited examples, as well as the book and movie Girl, Interrupted; all highlight the emotional instability of the disorder and the frantic attempts to avoid abandonment. However, each case shows a person more aggressive to others than to herself; the latter is a more usual outcome in these situations. The 1992 film Single White Female highlights different aspects of the disorder, as the character Hedy, suffering from a markedly disturbed sense of identity, adopts wholesale the attributes of her flatmate. A chronic emptiness is implied and, as with the last two films, abandonment leads to drastic measures.Robinson (Reel Psychiatry:Movie Portrayals of Psychiatric Conditions), p. 235 Other films cited as depicting prominent characters with the disorder include The Crush, Malicious, Presumed Innocent, and The Hand That Rocks the Cradle.On stage, BPD was a central theme of Joe Penhall's 2000 play 'Blue/Orange' in which to psychiatrists do battle over the future treatment of a black patient suffering from the condition.The character of Laura Montag in HBO's cable-television series In Treatment also displays key symptoms of the Borderline personality disorder.FootnotesBibliographyBateman, A.W., P. Fonagy (February 2004). "Mentalization-based treatment of BPD". Journal of Personality Disorders 18 (1): 36-51.Fonagy, P.; A.W. Bateman (April 2006). "Mechanisms of change in mentalization-based treatment of BPD". J Clin Psychol 62 (4): 411-30.Gunderson, John G. (1984). Borderline Personality Disorder. Washington DC American Psychiatric Press.Gunderson, John G. (2000). Borderline Personality Disorder: A Clinical Guide. Washington, DC. American Psychiatric Press, Inc.Horowitz, M.J. (May 2006). "Psychotherapy for Borderline Personality: Focusing on Object Relations". The American Journal of Psychiatry 163 (5): 944-5.Linehan, M.M.; D.A. Tutek, H.L. Heard, et al. (December 1994). "Interpersonal Outcome of Cognitive Behavioral Treatment for Chronically Suicidal Borderline Patients". The American Journal of Psychiatry 151 (12): 1771.Petronix, K.M. (2007). "Petronix Chronicles - Birth of a Sociopath". Sociopathic.net eBook (1): 1-52.Reynolds, S.K.; Lindenboim, N., Comtois, K.A., et al. (February 2006). "Risky Assessments: Participant Suicidality and Distress Associated with Research Assessments in a Treatment Study of Suicidal Behavior". Suicide & Life - Threatening Behavior 36 (1): 19.Twemlow, S.W.; P. Fonagy, F. Sacco (2005). "A developmental approach to mentalizing communities: I. A model for social change". Bulletin of the Menninger Clinic 69 (4): 265.Vinocur, D. (2005). Mental representations, interpersonal functioning and childhood trauma in personality disorders. Long Island University: The Brooklyn Center. AAT 3195364.Zeigler-Hill, V.; J. Abraham (June 2006). "Borderline personality features: Instability of self-esteem and affect". Journal of Social & Clinical Psychology 25 (6): 668-687.See alsoEmotional dysregulationPost-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)Complex post-traumatic stress disorder (C-PTSD)Bipolar disorderDepressantsDSM-IV Codes#Personality DisordersStructured Clinical Interview for DSM-IVDissociative disordersExternal links National Institute of Health - Borderline Personality DisorderBPDCentral - Information and support for families and individuals dealing with BPD.BPDWORLD - UK-based charity for people with BPDBorderline Personality Disorder (BPD) QuizCategory:Personality disorders Category:Abnormal psychology ar:اضطراب الشخصية الحدي ca:Borderline da:Borderline-personlighedsforstyrrelse de:Borderline-Persönlichkeitsstörung es:Trastorno límite de la personalidad fa:اختلالات شخصیتی مرزی fr:Trouble de la personnalité borderline it:Disturbo borderline di personalità he:הפרעת אישיות גבולית hu:Borderline személyiségzavar nl:Borderline-persoonlijkheidsstoornis ja:境界性人格障害 pl:Osobowość borderline pt:Transtorno de personalidade limítrofe sr:Гранични поремећај личности fi:Epävakaa persoonallisuus sv:Borderline uk:Межовий розлад особистості zh:边缘性人格障碍