Capsella bursa-pastoris, known by its common name shepherd's-purse because of its triangular, purse-like pods, is a small (up to 0.5m) annual and ruderal species, and a member of the Brassicaceae or mustard family. It is native to eastern Europe and Asia minorAksoy A, Dixon JM and Hale WH (1998) Biological flora of the British Isles. Capsella bursa-pastoris (L.) Medikus (Thlaspi bursapastoris L., Bursa bursa-pastoris (L.) Shull, Bursa pastoris (L.) Weber). Journal of Ecology 86: 171-186 but is naturalized and considered a common weed in many parts of the world, especially in colder climates, including Britain, where it is regarded as an archaeophyte,Preston CD, Pearman DA & Dines TD (2002) New Atlas of the British Flora. Oxford University PressPreston CD, Pearman DA & Hall AR(2004) Archaeophytes in Britain. Botanical Journal of the Linnaean Society 145, 257-294 North AmericaUSDA PLANTS Profile: Capsella bursa-pastoris (L.) Medik and China but also in the Mediterranean and North Africa. Capsella bursa-pastoris is closely related to the model organism Arabidopsis thaliana and is also used as a model organism due to the variety of genes expressed throughout its life cycle that can be compared to genes that are well studied in A. thaliana. Unlike most flowering plants, it flowers almost all year round.  Like many other annual ruderals exploiting disturbed ground, C. bursa-pastoris reproduces entirely from seed, has a long soil seed bank, and short generation time and is capable of producing several generations each year.SeedsLike a number of other plants in several plant families, its seeds contain a substance known as mucilage, a condition known as myxospermy. The adaptive value of myxospermy is unknown, although the fact that mucilage becomes sticky when wet has led some to propose that C. bursa-pastoris traps insects which then provide nutrients to the seedling, which would make it protocarnivorous.UsesC. bursa-pastoris is gathered from the wild or grown for food to supplement animal feed, for cosmetics, and for medicinal purposes.ParasitesWhite rust Albugo candidaReferencesSee alsoList of beneficial weedsList of companion plantsExternal linksPlants for a Future: Capsella bursa-pastorisMrs. M. Grieve. A Modern Herbal. Shepherd's Purse Category:Brassicaceae Category:Carnivorous plants of Europe Category:Cosmopolitan species Category:Lawn weeds Category:Medicinal plantsca:Sarronets de pastor cs:Kokoška pastuší tobolka da:Almindelig Hyrdetaske de:Gewöhnliches Hirtentäschel es:Capsella bursa-pastoris fa:کیسه کشیش fr:Bourse à pasteur fy:Leppeltsjeblom gl:Panqueixo ko:냉이 it:Capsella bursa-pastoris ku:Nivîştîlok lt:Trikertė žvaginė hu:Pásztortáska nl:Herderstasje nds-nl:Lepeldief ja:ナズナ pl:Tasznik pospolity pt:Bolsa-de-pastor ro:Traista-ciobanului ru:Пастушья сумка sk:Kapsička pastierska sr:Хоћу-нећу (биљка) fi:Lutukka sv:Lomme uk:Грицики звичайні zh:荠菜