 Villach (; Slovenian Beljak) is the second largest city in Carinthia in the south of Austria, at the Drau River (Slovenian Drava) and represents an important traffic junction for Austria and the whole Alpe-Adria region. As of December 2006, the population is 58,480.HistoryThe oldest human traces found in Villach date back to 3500 BC. A lot of Roman artifacts were found there, as it was close to an important Roman road called the Römerweg. A document mentions a bridge in what is today Villach in 878, and the settlement across the bridge was given market town status in 1060, though Villach is first mentioned in records in 1240. It got its first mayor in the 16th century.On January 25, 1348 an earthquake destroyed a big part of Villach followed by another earthquake in 1690. There were also several fires in Villach which destroyed a lot of buildings.In 1759 Empress Maria Theresa of Austria formally purchased Villach, as well as much of Carinthia. During the Napoleonic Wars, Villach was part of the Illyrian provinces of the French Empire from 1809 until 1813.The Südbahn railway finally reached Villach in 1864, providing growth and expansion.During the period of the German Anschluss (1938-45) when Austria was annexed to Nazi Germany, the mayor of Villach was Oskar Kraus, an enthusiastic Nazi.Lisa Rettl, Werner Koroschitz, "Ein korrekter Nazi: Oskar Kraus, ns-oberbürgermeister von Villach", Drava (2006), ISBN 3-85435-501-7 A memorial for the 1919 border conflict caused controversy when it was inaugurated in 2002, as Kraus, who had not been especially prominent in the conflict, was the only person named.ORF Kärnten, &quot;Oskar Kraus - ein korrekter Nazi&quot; During World War II, the town was bombed 37 times by the Allies. About 42,500 bombs killed 300 people and damaged 85% of the buildings, nevertheless the city quickly recovered.Today, Villach is a bustling city with commerce and recreation, yet it retains its historic background.GeographyGeographical positionThe city is located west of the Klagenfurt Basin at the confluence of the Drau and the Gail Rivers. Nearby countries are Slovenia with a direct line to the border of 11&nbsp;km (6.8&nbsp;mi) and Italy with a distance of 14.5&nbsp;km (9&nbsp;mi) respectively. Slovenia could be accessed via the Karawanken Autobahn (A11) and the Karawanken Tunnel, Italy by the Süd Autobahn (A2).The municipal area borders on or surrounds several  lakes, including Lake Ossiach, Lake Faak, Silbersee, Vassacher See, Magdalensee, and St. Leonharder See.Villach is surrounded by mountains of the Alps which are used for skiing in winter and hiking in summer.StructureThe following sections belong to Villach:Bogenfeld, Dobrova, Drautschen, Drobollach am Faaker See, Duel, Egg am Faaker See, Goritschach, Graschitz, Gratschach, Greuth, Gritschach, Großsattel, Großvassach, Heiligen Gestade, Heiligengeist, Kleinsattel, Kleinvassach, Kratschach, Kumitz, Landskron, Maria Gail, Mittewald ober dem Faaker See, Mittewald ob Villach, Neufellach, Neulandskron, Obere Fellach, Oberfederaun, Oberschütt, Oberwollanig, Pogöriach, Prossowitsch, Rennstein, Serai, St. Andrä, St. Georgen, St. Leonhard, St. Magdalen, St. Michael, St. Niklas an der Drau, St. Ruprecht, St. Ulrich, Tschinowitsch, Turdanitsch, Untere Fellach, Unterfederaun, Unterschütt, Unterwollanig, Urlaken, Villach-Auen, Villach-Innere Stadt, Villach-Lind, Villach-Seebach-Wasenboden, Villach-St. Agathen und Perau, Villach-St. Martin, Villach-Völkendorf, Villach-Warmbad-Judendorf, Weißenbach, ZauchenIn 1905 a part of the municipal area St. Martin was incorporated. In 1973 the city area was further enlarged through the incorporation of Landskron, Maria Gail and Fellach.PoliticsMunicipal councilThe municipal council (Gemeinderat) consists of 45 members, with the mayor as president, and—as of 2003—is composed of:SPÖ: 28 seatsFPÖ: 8 seatsÖVP: 6 seatsDie Grünen: 2 seatsFerdinand Truppe (Independent): 1 seatCity governmentThe city government of Villach (Stadtsenat) consists of seven members. It is chaired by the mayor, who is directly elected by the people. The other members—two vice-mayors and four town councillors—are appointed by the municipal council, with party affiliations according to the election results.Mayor Helmut Manzenreiter, SPÖFirst vice-mayor Karl-Heinz Evers, SPÖSecond vice-mayor Mag. Gerda Sandriesser, SPÖCouncillor Mag. Hilde Schaumberger, SPÖCouncillor Harald Sobe, SPÖCouncillor Walter Lang, FPÖCouncillor LAbg. KR Helmut Hinterleitner, ÖVPTwin townsVillach is twinned with: Bamberg (Germany) Udine (Italy) Suresnes (France) Springfield, Illinois (USA)Festivals There are several festivals throughout the year:The carnival in Villach (which starts on November 11 and ends on March 4)The arts and crafts festival (with self made goods)The New Orleans festivalThe streets-art festival (displays performances of artists and singers)The "Villacher Kirchtag" (a kermis spanning a whole week in summer and ends on August's first Saturday with a notorious fireworks show)Performances on a stage beside the Drau Notable citizensAlex Antonitsch, tennis player (retired)Peter Brabeck-Letmathe, current CEO of the Nestlé GroupKurt Diemberger, mountaineer and authorBruno Gironcoli, modern artistMichael Grabner, ice hockey player (active)Herbert Hohenberger, ice hockey player (active)Martin Koch, ski jumper (active)Peter Löscher, current CEO of Siemens AGPaul Watzlawick, a communication scientist, psychotherapist, psychoanalyst, sociologist, philosopher, and author (deceased)ReferencesExternal linksVillach - official web site (English version)Gallery  Image:Villachfromalpinestrasse.jpg|Villach from the Alpenstraße (Oct. 2005) Image:Villachshopping.JPG|Main square Image:Villach.JPG|Drau River - downstream (2004) Category:Carinthia Category:Cities and towns in Carinthia Category:Districts of Austriabr:Villach bg:Филах cs:Villach da:Villach de:Villach el:Φίλλαχ et:Villach es:Villach eo:Villach fr:Villach fur:Vilac hr:Villach id:Villach is:Villach it:Villaco he:פילאך la:Santicum lt:Filachas nl:Villach ja:フィラッハ no:Villach pl:Villach pt:Villach ro:Villach ru:Филлах sk:Villach sl:Beljak sr:Филах fi:Villach sv:Villach uk:Філлах vo:Villach