  An uninterruptible power supply (UPS), also known as a continuous power supply (CPS) or a battery backup is a device which maintains a continuous supply of electric power to connected equipment by supplying power from a separate source when utility power is not available. It differs from an auxiliary power supply or standby generator, which does not provide instant protection from a momentary power interruption. A UPS, however, can be used to provide uninterrupted power to equipment for 1 - 20 minutes until a generator can be turned on or utility power is restored. Integrated systems that have UPS and standby generator components are often referred to as emergency power systems.There are three distinct UPS types :off-line : remains idle until a power failure occurs, and then switches from utility power to its own power source, almost instantaneously.line-interactive.on-line : continuously powers the protected load from its energy reserves stored in a lead-acid battery or flywheel, while simultaneously replenishing the reserves from the AC power. It also provides protection against all common power problems, and for this reason it is also known as a power conditioner and a line conditioner.While not limited to safeguarding any particular type of equipment, a UPS is typically used to protect computers, telecommunication equipment or other electrical equipment where an unexpected power disruption could cause injuries, fatalities, serious business disruption or data loss. UPS units come in sizes ranging from units which will back up a single computer without monitor (around 200 VA) to units which will power entire data centers or buildings (several megawatts).Historically, UPSs were expensive and were most likely to be used on expensive computer systems and in areas where the power supply is interrupted frequently. As prices have fallen, UPS units have become an essential piece of equipment for data centers and business computers, and are also used for personal computers, entertainment systems and more.Common power problemsThere are various common power problems that UPS units are used to correct. They are as follows (with a typical example of damage that might be caused):Power failure&nbsp;&mdash; Total loss of utility power, with possibility of severe transient conditions upon failure and/or restoration: Causes electrical equipment to stop working (transients may cause permanent damage).Voltage sag&nbsp;&mdash; Transient (short term) under-voltage: Causes flickering of lights.Voltage spike&nbsp;&mdash; Transient (short term) over-voltage i.e. spike or peak: Causes wear or acute damage to electronic equipment.Under-voltage (brownout)&nbsp;&mdash; Low line voltage for an extended period of time: Causes overheating in motors.Over-voltage&nbsp;&mdash; Increased voltage for an extended period of time: Causes light bulbs to burnout.Line noise&nbsp;&mdash; Distortions superimposed on the power waveform: Causes electro magnetic interference.Frequency variation&nbsp;&mdash; Deviation from the nominal frequency (50 or 60&nbsp;Hz): Causes motors to increase or decrease speed and line-driven clocks and timing devices to gain or lose time.Switching transient&nbsp;&mdash; Instantaneous undervoltage (notch) in the range of milliseconds to seconds: May cause erratic behavior in some equipment, memory loss, data error, data loss and component stress.Harmonic distortion&nbsp;&mdash; Multiples of power frequency superimposed on the power waveform: Causes excess heating in wiring and fuses.UPS units are divided into categories based on which of the above problems they address. Manufacturers categorize their products in accordance with the number of power related problems they address.TechnologiesThe general categories of modern UPS systems are on-line, line-interactive, and standby. An on-line UPS uses a "double conversion" method of accepting AC input, rectifying to DC for passing through the battery (or battery strings), then inverting back to AC for powering the protected equipment. A line-interactive UPS maintains the inverter in line and redirects the battery's DC current path from the normal charging mode to supplying current when power is lost. In a standby ("off-line") system the load is powered directly by the input power and the backup power circuitry is only invoked when the utility power fails. Most UPS below 1 kVA are of the line-interactive or standby variety which are usually less expensive.For large power units, Dynamic Uninterruptible Power Supply are sometimes used. A synchronous motor/alternator is connected on the mains via a choke. Energy is stored in a flywheel. When the mains power fails, an Eddy-current regulation maintains the power on the load. DUPS are sometimes combined or integrated with a diesel-genset, forming a diesel rotary uninterruptible power supply, or DRUPS.Fuel cell UPS have been developed in recent years using hydrogen and a fuel cell as a power source, potentially providing long run times in a small space. A fuel cell replaces the batteries used in other UPS designs.Offline / standbyThe Offline / Standby UPS offers only the most basic features, providing surge protection and battery backup. Usually the Standby UPS offers no battery capacity monitoring or self-test capability, making it the least reliable type of UPS since it could fail at any moment without warning. These are also the least expensive, selling for as little as US$75. The Standby UPS may be worse than using nothing at all, because it gives the user a false sense of security of being assurred protection that may not work when needed the most.With this type of UPS, a user's equipment is normally connected directly to incoming utility power with the same voltage transient clamping devices used in a common surge protected plug strip connected across the power line. When the incoming utility voltage falls below a predetermined level the UPS turns on its internal DC-AC inverter circuitry, which is powered from an internal storage battery. The SBS then mechanically switches the connected equipment on to its DC-AC inverter output. The switch over time is stated by most manufacturers as being less than 4 milliseconds, but typically can be as long as 25 milliseconds depending on the amount of time it takes the Standby UPS to detect the lost utility voltage.Line-interactiveThe Line-Interactive UPS is similar in operation to a Standby UPS, but with the addition of a multi-tap variable-voltage autotransformer. This is a special type of electrical transformer that can add or subtract powered coils of wire, thereby increasing or decreasing the magnetic field and the output voltage of the transformer.This type of UPS is able to tolerate continuous undervoltage brownouts and overvoltage surges without consuming the limited reserve battery power. It instead compensates by auto-selecting different power taps on the autotransformer. Changing the autotransformer tap can cause a very brief output power disruption, so the UPS may chirp for a moment, as it briefly switches to battery before changing the selected power tap.Autotransformers can be engineered to cover a wide range of varying input voltages, but this also increases the number of taps and the size, weight, complexity, and expense of the UPS. It is common for the autotransformer to only cover a range from about 90v to 140v for 120v power, and then switch to battery if the voltage goes much higher or lower than that range.In low-voltage conditions the UPS will use more current than normal so it may need a higher current circuit than a normal device. For example to power a 1000 watt device at 120 volts, the UPS will draw 8.32 amps. If a brownout occurs and the voltage drops to 100 volts, the UPS will draw 10 amps to compensate. This also works in reverse, so that in an overvoltage condition, the UPS will need fewer amps of current. Double-conversion / onlineTypical protection time:5 - 30 minutesCapacity expansion:Several hoursThe Online UPS is ideal for environments where electrical isolation is necessary or for equipment that is very sensitive to power fluctuations. Although once previously reserved for very large installations of 10kW or more, advances in technology have permitted it to now be available as a common consumer device, supplying 500 watts or less. The Online UPS is generally more expensive but may be necessary when the power environment is "noisy" such as in industrial settings, for larger equipment loads like data centers, or when operation from an extended-run backup generator is necessary.The basic technology of the Online UPS is the same as in a Standby or Line-Interactive UPS. However it typically costs much more, due to it having a much greater current AC-to-DC battery-charger/rectifier, and with the rectifier and inverter designed to run continuously with improved cooling systems. It is called a Double-Conversion UPS due to the rectifier directly driving the inverter, even when powered from normal AC current.In an Online UPS, the batteries are always connected to the inverter, so that no power transfer switches are necessary. When power loss occurs, the rectifier simply drops out of the circuit and the batteries keep the power steady and unchanged. When power is restored, the rectifier resumes carrying most of the load and begins charging the batteries, though the charging current may be limited to prevent the high-power rectifier from overheating the batteries and boiling off the electrolyte.The main advantage to the on-line UPS is its ability to provide an electrical firewall between the incoming utility power and sensitive electronic equipment. While the Standby and Line-Interactive UPS merely filters the input utility power, the Double-Conversion UPS provides a layer of insulation from power quality problems. It allows control of output voltage and frequency regardless of input voltage and frequency.Ferro-resonantTypical protection time:5 - 15 MinutesCapacity expansion:Several HoursFerro-resonant units operate in the same way as a standby UPS unit with the exception that a ferro-resonant transformer is used to filter the output. This transformer is designed to hold energy long enough to cover the time between switching from line power to battery power and effectively eliminates the transfer time. Many ferro-resonant UPSs are 90-93% efficient and offer excellent isolation.This used to be the dominant type of UPS and is limited to around the 15KVA range. These units are still mainly used in some industrial settings due to the robust nature of the UPS. Many ferro-resonant UPSs utilizing controlled ferro technology may not interact with power-factor-correcting equipment.DC powerTypical protection time:Several hoursCapacity expansion:YesA UPS designed for powering DC equipment is very similar to an online UPS, except that it does not need an output inverter, and often the powered device does not need a power supply. Rather than converting AC to DC to charge batteries, then DC to AC to power the external device, and then back to DC inside the powered device, some equipment accepts DC power directly and allows one or more conversion steps to be eliminated. This equipment is more commonly known as a nationalrectifier.Many systems used in telecommunications use 48 volt DC power, because it is not considered a high-voltage by most electrical codes and is exempt from many safety regulations, such as being installed in conduit and junction boxes. DC has typically been the dominant power source for telecommunications, and AC has typically been the dominant source for computers and servers.There has been much experimentation with 48v DC power for computer servers, in the hope of reducing the likelihood of failure and the cost of equipment. However, to supply the same amount of power, the current must be greater than an equivalent 120v or 240v circuit, and greater current requires larger conductors and/or more energy to be lost as heat.High voltage DC (380 volts) is finding use in some data center applications, and allows for small power conductors, but is subject to the more complex electrical code rules for safe containment of high voltages.Microsoft Word - DCDemoFinalReportFinalJan17-07.doc&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;RotaryTypical protection time:20 - 60 secondsCapacity expansion:Several secondsA Rotary UPS uses the inertia of a high-mass spinning flywheel to provide short-term ride-through in the event of power loss. The flywheel also acts as a buffer against power spikes and sags, since such short-term power events are not able to appreciably affect the rotational speed of the high-mass flywheel. It is also one of the oldest designs, predating vacuum tubes and integrated circuits.It can be considered to be online since it spins continuously under normal conditions. However, unlike an electronic double-conversion UPS, it is only capable of providing reserve power for a few seconds before the flywheel has slowed and the protection fails. It is traditionally used in conjunction with standby diesel generators, providing backup power only for the brief period of time the engine needs to start running and stabilize its output.The Rotary UPS is generally reserved for applications needing more than 10,000 watts of protection, to justify the expense of an extremely large and heavy power system that can only be transported by forklift or crane. A larger flywheel or multiple flywheels operating in parallel will increase the reserve running time, but at greatly increasing cost due to the size and weight of the precision-balanced flywheels.Because the flywheels are a mechanical power source, it is not necessary to use an electric motor or generator as an intermediary between it and a diesel engine designed to provide emergency power. By using a transmission gearbox, the rotational inertia of the flywheel can be used to directly start up a diesel engine, and once running, the diesel engine can be used to directly spin the flywheel. Multiple flywheels can likewise be connected in parallel through mechanical countershafts, without the need for separate motors and generators for each flywheel.They are normally designed to provide very high current output compared to a purely electronic UPS, and are better able to provide inrush current for inductive loads such as motor startup or compressor loads, as well as medical MRI and cath lab equipment. It is also able to tolerate short-circuit conditions up 17 times larger than an electronic UPS, permitting one device to blow a fuse and fail while other devices still continue to be powered from the Rotary UPS.Its life cycle is usually far greater than a purely electronic UPS, up to 30 years or more. But they do require periodic downtime for mechanical maintenance (ball bearing replacement), while solid-state designs, using batteries, do not require downtime if the batteries can be hot-swapped, which is usually the case for larger units.Typically, the high-mass flywheel is used in conjunction with a motor-generator system. These units can be configured as:Hybrid Rotary UPS white paperA motor driving a mechanically connected generator,A combined synchronous motor and generator wound in alternating slots of a single rotor and stator,A Hybrid Rotary UPS, designed similar to an Online UPS, except that it uses the flywheel in place of batteries. The rectifier drives a motor to spin the flywheel, while a generator uses the flywheel to power the inverter.In case #3 the motor generator can be synchronous/synchronous or induction/synchronous. The motor side of the unit in case #2 and #3 can be driven directly by an AC power source (typically when in inverter bypass), a 6-step double-conversion motor drive, or a 6 pulse inverter. Case #1 uses an integrated flywheel as a short-term energy source instead of batteries to allow time for external, electrically coupled gensets to start and be brought online. Case #2 and #3 can use batteries or a free-standing electrically coupled flywheel as the short-term energy source.CapacitorsUPSes can be equipped with maintenance-free capacitors to extend service life http://www.industrial-europe.com/showArticle.jhtml?articleID=210602105&amp;cid=NL_industrialeu&lt;/ref&gt;.APPLICATIONS OF UPSN+1In large business environments where reliability is of great importance, a single huge UPS can also be a single point of failure that can disrupt many other systems. To provide greater reliability, multiple smaller UPS modules and batteries can be integrated together to provide redundant power protection equivalent to one very large UPS.Multiple redundancyMany computer servers offer the option of redundant power supplies, so that in the event of one power supply failing, one or more other power supplies are able to power the load.While it is common to plug each of these individual power supplies into one single UPS, redundant protection can be extended further yet by connecting each power supply to its own UPS. This provides double protection from both a power supply failure and a UPS failure, so that continued operation is assured.Outdoor useWhen a UPS system is placed outdoors, it should have some specific features that guarantee that it can tolerate weather with a 'minimal to none' effect on performance. Factors such as temperature, humidity, rain, and snow among others should have been considered by the manufacturer when designing an outdoor UPS system. Operating temperature ranges for outdoor UPS systems could be around -40°C to +55º&nbsp;C.Outdoor UPS systems can be pole, ground (pedestal), or host mounted. Outdoor environment could mean extreme cold, in which case the outdoor UPS system should include a battery heater mat, or extreme heat, in which case the outdoor UPS system should include a fan system or an air conditioning system.Internal systemsUPS systems can be designed to be placed inside a computer chassis. There are two types of Internal UPS. The first type is a miniaturized regular UPS that is made small enough to fit into a 5.25” CD-ROM slot bay of a regular computer chassis. The other type are re-engineered switching power supplies that utilize dual power sources of AC and/or DC as power inputs and have an AC/DC built-in switching management control units.See alsoEmergency power systemPower conditionerSurge protectorIT baseline protectionNotesReferencesPart of this article was originally taken from a public-domain entry in Federal Standard 1037C.Part of this article was copied with permission from Uninterruptible Solutions.External linksHow a UPS worksThe Do-It-Yourself-UPSAttributes and schematics of UPSCategory:Power components Category:Computer peripherals Category:Fault tolerancear:مزود الطاقة اللامنقطعة ca:SAI cs:UPS da:UPS (teknik) de:Unterbrechungsfreie Stromversorgung es:Sistema de alimentación ininterrumpida fr:Alimentation sans interruption ko:무정전 전원 장치 it:Gruppo di continuità he:אל-פסק nl:Noodstroomvoeding ja:無停電電源装置 no:UPS pl:Zasilacz bezprzerwowy pt:Fonte de alimentação ininterrupta ru:Источник бесперебойного питания sk:Neprerušiteľný zdroj energie fi:UPS sv:Avbrottsfri kraftförsörjning tr:Kesintisiz güç kaynağı vi:UPS zh:不间断电源