 The spermatophytes (from the Greek word "Σπερματόφυτα") (also known as phanerogams) comprise those plants that produce seeds. They are a subset of the embryophytes or land plants. The living spermatophytes form five groups:cycads, a subtropical and tropical group of plants with a large crown of compound leaves and a stout trunk,Ginkgo, a single living species of tree,conifers, cone-bearing trees and shrubs,gnetophytes, woody plants in the genera Gnetum, Welwitschia, and Ephedra, andangiosperms, the flowering plants, a large group including many familiar plants in a wide variety of habitats.In addition to the taxa listed above, the fossil record contains evidence of many extinct taxa of seed plants. The so-called "seed ferns" (Pteridospermae) were one of the earliest successful groups of land plants, and forests dominated by seed ferns were prevalent in the late Paleozoic. Glossopteris was the most prominent tree genus in the ancient southern supercontinent of Gondwana during the Permian period. By the Triassic period, seed ferns had declined in ecological importance, and representatives of modern gymnosperm groups were abundant and dominant through the end of the Cretaceous, when angiosperms radiated. Another Late Paleozoic group of probable spermatophytes were the gigantopterids.Relationships and nomenclature Seed-bearing plants were traditionally divided into angiosperms, or flowering plants, and gymnosperms, which includes the gnetophytes, cycads, ginkgo, and conifers. Older morphological studies have shown a close relationship between the gnetophytes and the angiosperms, in particular based on vessel elements. However, molecular studies (and some more recent morphological | year = 2006 | doi = 10.3159/1095-5674(2006)133169:SFATOO2.0.CO;2  and fossil papers) have generally shown a clade of gymnosperms, with the gnetophytes in or near the conifers. For example, one common proposed set of relationships is known as the gne-pine hypothesis and looks like:Chaw, Shu-Miaw, Christopher L. Parkinson, Yuchang Cheng, Thomas M. Vincent, and Jeffrey D. Palmer. 2000. Seed plant phylogeny inferred from all three plant genomes: Monophyly of extant gymnosperms and origin of Gnetales from conifers. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 97: 4086-4091 Bowe, L. Michelle, Gwénaële Coat, and Claude W. dePamphilis. 2000. Phylogeny of seed plants based on all three genomic compartments: Extant gymnosperms are monophyletic and Gnetales' closest relatives are conifers. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 97: 4092-4097.Soltis, Douglas E., Pamela S. Soltis and Michael J. Zanis. 2002. Phylogeny of seed plants based on evidence from eight genes. American Journal of Botany 89: 1670-1681.&lt;/ref&gt; |
   2=''[[Ginkgo]]'' |
   3= |
     2=other conifers
   
 The relationships between these groups should not be considered settled.A traditional classification grouped put all the seed plants in a single division, with classes for our five groups:Division SpermatophytaCycadopsida, the cycadsGinkgoopsida, the ginkgoPinopsida, the conifers, ("Coniferopsida")Gnetopsida, the gnetophytesMagnoliopsida, the flowering plants, or AngiospermopsidaA more modern classification ranks these groups as separate divisions (sometimes under the Superdivision Spermatophyta):Cycadophyta, the cycadsGinkgophyta, the ginkgoPinophyta, the conifersGnetophyta, the gnetophytesMagnoliophyta, the flowering plants== References == Category:Plants ar:شعبة البذريات zh-min-nan:Chéng-chí si̍t-bu̍t bg:Семенни растения ca:Espermatòfit cs:Semenné rostliny da:Frøplanter de:Samenpflanzen et:Seemnetaimed es:Spermatophyta fr:Spermatophyta ga:Spermatophyta ko:종자식물 hr:Sjemenjače it:Spermatophyta he:צמחי זרע ka:თესლოვანი მცენარეები ku:Riwekên tovdar (Spermatophyta) lv:Sēklaugi hu:Virágos növények nah:Xinachtlanelhuayōtl nl:Zaadplanten nds-nl:Zaodplaanten ja:種子植物 no:Blomsterplanter pl:Rośliny nasienne pt:Espermatófita qu:Muruyuq ru:Семенные растения sl:Semenke fi:Siemenkasvit sv:Fröväxter vi:Thực vật có hạt tr:Tohumlu bitkiler uk:Насінні vec:Piante da fior zh:种子植物