Baker Island is an uninhabited atoll located just north of the equator in the central Pacific Ocean about 3,100 km (1,670&nbsp;nmi) southwest of Honolulu. The island lies almost halfway between Hawaii and Australia, and is a possession of the United States. Its nearest neighbor is Howland Island, 68 kilometers to the north.Baker is located at . It covers a mere 1.64 km² (405&nbsp;acres), with 4.8 km of coastline. The climate is equatorial, with little rainfall, constant wind, and strong sunshine. The terrain is low-lying and sandy: a coral island surrounded by a narrow fringing reef with a depressed central area devoid of any lagoon. Baker's highest point is 8 meters above sea level.Baker Island National Wildlife Refuge consists of the 405 acre (164&nbsp;ha) island and a surrounding 30,500 acres (123&nbsp;km²) of submerged land. The island is now a National Wildlife Refuge managed by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service as an insular area under the U.S. Department of the Interior. Baker Island is an unincorporated and unorganized territory of the U.S..Its defense is the responsibility of the United States; though uninhabited, it is visited annually by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. For statistical purposes, Baker is grouped with the United States Minor Outlying Islands.Flora and faunaBaker has no natural fresh water sources. It is treeless, with sparse vegetation consisting of four kinds of grass,U.S. Dept. of Interior. Baker Island. Retrieved 6 July 2008. prostrate vines and low growing shrubs. The island is primarily a nesting, roosting, and foraging habitat for seabirds, shorebirds, and marine wildlife.A cemetery and rubble from earlier settlements are located near the middle of the west coast, which is where the boat landing area is located. There are no ports or harbors, with anchorage available only offshore. The narrow fringing reef surrounding the island can be a maritime hazard, so there is a day beacon near the old village site. Baker's abandoned World War II runway, 1,665 meters (5,463 ft) long, is completely covered with vegetation and unusable.The U.S. claims an exclusive economic zone of 200 nautical miles (370&nbsp;km) and territorial sea of 12 nautical miles (22&nbsp;km) around Baker Island.During the 1935–1942 colonization attempt the island was most likely on Hawaii time, which was then 10.5 hours behind UTC. Being uninhabited the island's time zone is now unspecified, but it lies in waters whose nautical time zone is 12 hours behind UTC.showing Baker Island and nearby Howland Island just north of the Equator and east of Tarawa Atoll.]]==History==  Baker was discovered in 1818 by Captain Elisha Folger of the Nantucket whaling ship Equator, who called the island "New Nantucket". In August 1825 Baker was resighted by Captain Obed Starbuck of the Loper, also a Nantucket whaler. The name goes back to Michael Baker, who visited the island in 1834. Other references state that he visited in 1832, and again on August 14, 1839 in the whaler Gideon Howland, to bury an American seaman.Bryan, 1941The United States took possession of the island in 1857, claiming it under the Guano Islands Act of 1856. Its guano deposits were mined by the American Guano Company from 1859 to 1878. John T. Arundel and company, a British firm, made the island its headquarters for its guano digging operations in the Pacific from 1886 to 1891. In 1935, a short-lived attempt at colonization was begun.The American colonists were landed from the USCGC ''Itasca'', the same vessel that brought colonists to neighboring Howland Island, on April 3, 1935. They built a lighthouse, substantial dwellings, and attempted to grow various plants. One sad-looking clump of coconut palms was jokingly called "King-Doyle Park" after two well-known citizens of Hawaii, who visited on the Taney in 1938. This clump was the best on the island, planted near a water seep, but the dry climate and sea birds, eager for anything upon which to perch, did not give trees or shrubs much of a chance to survive.http://www.anytravels.com/oceania/baker&lt;/ref&gt;King-Doyle Park was later adopted as a geographical name by the USGS.The settlement, named Meyerton after was named for Captain H.A. Meyer of the United States Army, who helped establish the camps for the colonists in 1935. It had a population of four American civilians, who were all evacuated in 1942 after Japanese air and naval attacks. During World War II it was occupied by the U.S. military.Since the war, Baker has been uninhabited. Feral cats were eradicated from the island in 1964. Public entry is by special-use permit only from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, and is generally restricted to scientists and educators. Similarly named placesBaker's Island, Mass.Baker Island - Acadia Nat. Park, MaineSee alsoHistory of the Pacific IslandsReferencesExternal linksBaker Island National Wildlife Refuge This article incorporated material from the CIA World Factbook 2000. Update as needed.Category:Baker Island Category:Islands claimed under the Guano Islands Actaz:Beyker adası zh-min-nan:Baker-tó be-x-old:Бэйкер bs:Ostrvo Baker ca:Illa Baker cs:Bakerův ostrov de:Bakerinsel et:Baker el:Μπαίηκερ Νήσος es:Isla Baker eo:Bakerinsulo eu:Baker Uhartea fr:Île Baker gl:Illa Baker ko:베이커 섬 hr:Otok Baker id:Pulau Baker is:Bakereyja it:Isola Baker he:בייקר (אי) lv:Beikera sala lb:Baker-Insel lij:Isoa Baker hu:Baker-sziget mk:Остров Бејкер mr:बेकर बेट nl:Baker (eiland) ja:ベーカー島 no:Bakerøya pl:Baker (terytorium USA) pt:Ilha Baker ro:Insula Baker ru:Остров Бейкер se:Beassášsuolu simple:Baker Island sk:Baker (ostrov) sl:Bakerjev otok sr:Бејкер sh:Otok Baker fi:Baker sv:Bakerön th:เกาะเบเกอร์ vi:Đảo Baker tr:Baker Adası uk:Бейкер (острів) zh:貝克島