The flag of Arizona does not contain a state seal but consists of 13 rays of red and gold (the conquistador colors and of the flag of Spain) on the top half, representing the 13 original counties of Arizona (there are 15 counties today), as well as symbolizing Arizona's picturesque sunsets. There is a copper colored star in the center representing Arizona's copper-mining industry. The rest of the flag is colored blue, representing liberty.In 1910, Colonel Charles W. Harris, head of the Arizona National Guard, designed a flag for the Arizona Rifle Team when they attended the National Matches at Camp Perry. Arizona had been the only team in past matches to compete without a flag. It was first sewn by May B. StewartThe flag was adopted on February 17, 1917 by the third state legislature. It was passed into law without the signature of Governor Thomas Campbell. The governor did not officially state his reasons for taking no action on the bill.In a 2001 poll conducted by the North American Vexillological Association, the Arizona flag was identified as one of the "10 best flags on the continent," ranking 6th out of 72 North American flags for overall design quality.NAVA 2001 Flag Survey Construction sheetTo properly make the state flag, the height of the flag is two units high while the width is three units wide. The sun rays at the top are divided into thirteen equal segments, starting with red and switching to gold until the thirteen rays are complete. In the center of the flag, the copper star will be one unit high, while the rest of the flag is covered by blue section measuring one unit high and three units wide. The colors of red and blue are the same shade that is used on the flag of the United States. The specific colors of copper and gold have not been set down in law. The suggested flag size is four by six feet, with the star being two feet tall.Flags of the World.NotesExternal linksArizona flag history  Arizona Category:Symbols of Arizonaca:Bandera d'Arizona de:Flagge Arizonas es:Bandera de Arizona fr:Drapeau de l'Arizona it:Bandiera dell'Arizona he:דגל מדינת אריזונה hu:Arizona zászlaja nl:Vlag van Arizona ja:アリゾナ州の旗 no:Arizonas flagg pl:Flaga stanowa Arizony pt:Bandeira do Arizona ro:Steagul statului Arizona, SUA sv:Arizonas flagga