Raneb was a pharaoh during the Second dynasty of Egypt. The Egyptian priest Manetho, calls him Kaiechos and states that he ruled Egypt for 39 years but such a high figure is not confirmed from the few contemporary objects known from his reign. The king lists call him Kakau. Some scholars also read his serekh as Nebre, reversing the hieroglyphs. Manetho also claims that he introduced the worship of the sacred goat Mendes.An introduction to the history and culture of Pharaonic Egypt.His name actually came from the name of the god Ra, also sometimes written Re, thus giving his name a meaning 'The Son of Ra'. His name Raneb translates as "Ra is the Lord."Peter Clayton, Chronicle of the Pharaohs, Thames and Hudson Ltd, 2006 paperback, p.26Identification of Raneb with [[Weneg (pharaoh)|Weneg]]Egyptologist Jochem Kahl has recently concluded that a mysterious king Weneg, Wadjnes or Tlas in the kinglists was actually the Nebty name of Raneb.Jochem Kahl, 'Dynasties 0-2: Hetep-sekhemwy to Netjerykhet. The Succession' in Erik Hornung, Rolf Krauss & David Warburton (editors), Ancient Egyptian Chronology (Handbook of Oriental Studies), Brill, 2006. pp.103-104Weneg is attested solely by inscriptions on stone vessels found in the Step Pyramid of Djoser and in Tomb S 3014.Jean Lauer, Pyramide IV.1 pls. V:4, 19: 105, 20: 101-103 and 106-107; IV.2, 50-53 Weneg's exact chronological position, as well the identification of his Horus name among those known for the second dynasty kings has remained a mystery.Wolfgang Helck in Untersuchungen zur Thinitenzeit, Harrassowitz Verlag, 1987. p.103 had proposed to identify Weneg with an enigmatic Horus Sa who is known by the mention of his Ka-house in inscriptions on stone vessels from the Step Pyramid. But as Jochem Kahl observes:"A long-known inscription from Tomb P at Umm el-Qaab (Doc. 22) provides the key to solving some of the problems associated with Weneg. In the inscription the nsw bjt nb.tj name Nynetjer faces the opposite direction from the name of Ra'-neb and that of his palace (Fig. II. 2.1) Ra-neb's name is partially erased. Scrutiny of the inscription reveals that the name Nynetjer is written over Weneg. Traces of the plant sign used to write Weneg are discernible, as are the enigmatic strokes to the upper left and right of it (Fig. II 2.2) Thus Nynetjer must have been Weneg's successor, and the original inscription referred to the palace of Horus Ra'-neb and to nsw bjt nb.tj Weneg."Kahl, op. cit., pp.102-103Therefore, Kahl concludes that the Horus name of Weneg must be king Raneb, the second ruler of the Second Dynasty of Egypt who was succeeded on the throne by Nynetjer.Kahl, op. cit., p.103ReferencesToby A. H. Wilkinson, Early Dynastic Egypt, Routledge, London/New York 1999, ISBN 0-415-18633-1, 84See alsoPharaohList of Pharaohs    Category:Pharaohs of the Second dynasty of Egyptca:Nebre cs:Raneb de:Nebre es:Nebra fr:Nebrê gl:Raneb hr:Raneb ko:라네브 it:Reneb lt:Ranebas hu:Nebré nl:Raneb pl:Reneb pt:Nebré ksh:Nebre ru:Ранеб sh:Raneb fi:Nebra sv:Nebre tr:Raneb