  Chosŏn Minjujuŭi Inmin Konghwaguk |conventional_long_name = Democratic People's Republic of Korea |conventional_short_name = DPR Korea |common_name = North Korea |image_flag = Flag of North Korea.svg |image_coat = Coat of Arms of North Korea.svg |image_map = LocationNorthKorea.png |motto = 강성대국(Powerful and prosperous nation) |national_anthem = Aegukka |official_languages = Korean |demonym = North Korean, Korean |capital = Pyongyang |latd=39 |latm=2 |latNS=N |longd=125 |longm=45 |longEW=E |government_type = Juche Socialist Republic, Single-party state |leader_title1 = Eternal President of the Republic |leader_title2 = Chairman of the National Defence Commission |leader_title3 = President of the Supreme People's Assembly |leader_title4 = Premier |leader_name1 = Kim Il-sung(deceased) a |leader_name2 = Kim Jong-ilb |leader_name3 = Kim Yong-namc |leader_name4 = Kim Yong-il |largest_city = Pyongyang |area_km2 = 120,540 |area_sq_mi = 46,528  |area_rank = 98th |area_magnitude = 1 E11 |percent_water = 4.87 |population_estimate = 23,301,725 North Korea itself does not disclose figures. |population_estimate_year = 2007 |population_estimate_rank = 48th |population_census = |population_census_year = |population_density_km2 = 190 |population_density_sq_mi = 492  |population_density_rank = 55th |GDP_PPP_year = 2007 |GDP_PPP = $40.00 billion |GDP_PPP_rank = 91st |GDP_PPP_per_capita = $1,900 |GDP_PPP_per_capita_rank = 147th |HDI_year = |HDI = |HDI_rank = |HDI_category = |FSI = 97.7  0.4 |FSI_year = 2007 |FSI_rank = 13th |FSI_category = Alert |sovereignty_type = Establishment |established_event1 = Independence&amp;nbsp;declared |established_event2 = Liberation |established_event3 = Formal declaration |established_date1 = March 1, 1919 |established_date2 = August 15, 1945 |established_date3 = September 9, 1948 |currency = North Korean won (₩) |currency_code = KPW |time_zone = Korea Standard Time |utc_offset = +9 |time_zone_DST = |utc_offset_DST = |cctld = .kp |calling_code = 850 |footnotes = a Died 1994, named "Eternal President" in 1998.b Kim Jong-il is the nation's most prominent leading figure and government figure head, although he is neither the head of state nor the head of government; his official title is Chairman of the National Defence Commission of North Korea, a position which he has held since 1994.c Kim Yong-nam is the "head of state for foreign affairs".  North Korea is the commonly used short form name for the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (or DPRK),Another acronym occasionally used in the media is DPRNK, as for Democratic People's Republic of North Korea. a state located in East Asia, in the northern half of the Korean Peninsula, with its capital and largest city being Pyongyang.To the south, separated by the Korean Demilitarized Zone, lies South Korea, with which it formed the Korean Empire until its occupation and division following World War II. At its northern Amnok River border are China and, separated by the Tumen River in the extreme north-east, Russia.North Korea is a one party state. The country's government styles itself as following the Juche ideology of self reliance, developed by Kim Il-sung, the country's former leader. The current leader is Kim Jong-il, the late president Kim Il-sung's son. Relations are strongest with other officially socialist states: Vietnam, Laos, and especially China, as well as with Russia, Cambodia and Myanmar. Following a major famine in the early 1990s, due partly to the collapse of the Soviet Union (previously a major economic partner), leader Kim Jong-il instigated the &quot;Military-First&quot; policy in 1995, increasing economic concentration and support for the military.Geography North Korea is on the northern portion of the Korean Peninsula, covering an area of  (roughly the size of the American state Pennsylvania). North Korea shares land borders with China and Russia to the north, and borders South Korea along the Korean Demilitarized Zone. To its west are the Yellow Sea and Korea Bay, and to its east lies Japan across the Sea of Japan (East Sea of Korea). The highest point in North Korea is Paektu-san Mountain at . The longest river is the Amnok River which flows for .North Korea's climate is relatively temperate, with precipitation heavier in summer during a short rainy season called changma, and winters that can be bitterly cold. For a week from August 7, 2007 the most devastating floods in 40 years caused the North Korean Government to ask for international help. NGOs, such as the Red Cross, asked people to raise funds because they feared a humanitarian catastrophe.&quot;Emergency appeal for DPRK flood survivors&quot;, website of the Red CrossThe capital and largest city is Pyongyang; other major cities include Kaesong in the south, Sinuiju in the northwest, Wonsan and Hamhung in the east and Chongjin in the northeast.HistoryGovernment and politics .]]North Korea is a self-described Juche (self-reliance) state. Government is organized as a dictatorship, with a pronounced cult of personality organized around Kim Il-sung (the founder of North Korea and the country's first and only president) and his son and heir, Kim Jong-il. Following Kim Il-sung's death in 1994, he was not replaced but instead received the designation of "Eternal President", and was entombed in the vast Kumsusan Memorial Palace in central Pyongyang.Although the active position of president has been abolished in deference to the memory of Kim Il-sung, the de facto head of state is Kim Jong-il, who is Chairman of the National Defence Commission of North Korea. The legislature of North Korea is the Supreme People's Assembly, currently led by President Kim Yong-nam. The other senior government figure is Premier Kim Yong-il.North Korea is a single-party state. The governing party is the Democratic Front for the Reunification of the Fatherland, a coalition of the Workers' Party of North Korea and two other smaller parties, the Korean Social Democratic Party and the Chondoist Chongu Party. These parties nominate all candidates for office and hold all seats in the Supreme People's Assembly.Human rights Multiple international human rights organizations, including Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch, accuse North Korea of having one of the worst human rights records of any nation. North Koreans have been referred to as "some of the world's most brutalized people", due to the severe restrictions placed on their political and economic freedoms. North Korean defectors have testified to the existence of prison and detention camps with an estimated 150,000 to 200,000 inmates (about 0.85% of the population), and have reported torture, starvation, rape, murder, medical experimentation, forced labour, and forced abortions.The system changed slightly at the end of 1990s, when population growth became very low. In many cases, where capital punishment was de facto, it was replaced by less severe punishments. Bribery became prevalent throughout the country. For example, years ago just listening to South Korean radio could result in capital punishment. However, many North Koreans now illegally wear clothes of South Korean origin, listen to Southern music, watch South Korean videotapes and even receive Southern broadcasts.Foreign relations    in Pyongyang.]]Since the ceasefire of the Korean War in 1953, the relations between the North Korean government and South Korea, European Union, Canada, the United States, and Japan have remained tense. Fighting was halted in the ceasefire, but both Koreas are still technically at war. Both North and South Korea signed the June 15th North-South Joint Declaration in 2000, in which both sides made promises to seek out a peaceful reunification. Additionally, on October 4, 2007, the leaders of North and South Korea pledged to hold summit talks to officially declare the war over and reaffirmed the principle of mutual non-aggression.In 2002, U.S. President George W. Bush labelled North Korea part of an "axis of evil" and an "outpost of tyranny". The highest-level contact the government has had with the United States was with U.S. Secretary of State Madeleine Albright, who made a visit to Pyongyang in 2000, but the two countries do not have formal diplomatic relations. In 2006, approximately 37,000 American soldiers remained in South Korea, with plans to reduce the number to 25,000 by 2008. Kim Jong-il has privately stated his acceptance of U.S. troops on the peninsula, even after a possible reunification. Publicly, North Korea strongly demands the removal of American troops from Korea (see North Korea-United States relations).North Korea has long maintained close relations with the People's Republic of China and Russia. The fall of communism in eastern Europe in 1989, and the disintegration of the Soviet Union in 1991, resulted in a devastating drop in aid to North Korea from Russia, although China continues to provide substantial assistance. North Korea continues to have strong ties with its socialist southeast Asian allies in Vietnam, Laos, and Cambodia. North Korea has started installing a concrete and barbed wire fence on its northern border, in response to China's wishing to curb refugees fleeing from North Korea. Previously the shared border with China and North Korea had only been lightly patrolled.Report: N. Korea building fence to keep people inAs a result of the North Korean nuclear weapons program, the Six-party talks were established to find a peaceful solution to the growing unrest between the two Korean governments, the Russian Federation, the People's Republic of China, Japan, and the United States.On July 17, 2007, United Nations inspectors verified the shutdown of five North Korean nuclear facilities, according to the February 2007 agreement.On October 4, 2007, South Korean President Roh Moo-Hyun and North Korean leader Kim Jong-Il signed an 8-point peace agreement, on issues of permanent peace, high-level talks, economic cooperation, renewal of train, highway and air travel, and a joint Olympic cheering squad.The United States and South Korea had designated the North as a state sponsor of terrorism. The 1983 bombing that killed members of the South Korean government and the 1987 destruction of a South Korean airliner have been attributed to North Korea. The DPRK has also claimed responsibility for the kidnap of 13 Japanese citizens in the 1970s and 1980s: five of whom were returned to Japan in 2002. On October 11, 2008, the United States removed North Korea from its list of states that sponsor terrorism.Military Kim Jong-il is the Supreme Commander of the Korean People's Army and Chairman of the National Defence Commission of North Korea. The Korean People's Army (KPA) is the name for the collective armed personnel of the North Korean military. The army has four branches: Ground Force, Naval Force, Air Force, and the Civil Securities Force.According to the U.S. Department of State, North Korea has the fourth-largest military in the world, at an estimated 1.21 million armed personnel, with about 20% of men aged 17-54 in the regular armed forces. North Korea has the highest percentage of military personnel per capita of any nation in the world, with approximately 40 enlisted soldiers per 1,000 citizens. Military strategy is designed for insertion of agents and sabotage behind enemy lines in wartime, with much of the KPA's forces deployed along the heavily fortified Korean Demilitarized Zone.Nuclear weapons program On October 9, 2006, North Korea conducted its first nuclear test. The blast was smaller than expected and U.S. officials suggested that it may have been an unsuccessful test or a partially successful fizzle. North Korea has previously stated that it has produced nuclear weapons and according to U.S. intelligence and military officials it has produced, or has the capability to produce, up to six or seven such devices. On Feb Pentagon sent F-117 & F-22 to US base at SK & Japan for keep the option for surgical strike to DPRK's Nuke facilities, but --On March 17, 2007, North Korea told delegates at international nuclear talks it would begin shut down preparations for its main nuclear facility. This was later confirmed on July 14, 2007 as International Atomic Energy Agency inspectors observed the initial shut-down phases of the currently operating 5 MW Yongbyon nuclear reactor, despite there being no official time line declared. In return, the reclusive nation has received 50,000 tons of heavy fuel oil shipped from South Korea. Once the old small nuclear reactor is permanently shut down, North Korea will receive the equivalent of 950,000 tons of fuel oil when the six-nation talks reconvene. Following breakthrough talks held in September 2007, aimed at hastening the end of North Korea's nuclear program, North Korea was to "disable some part of its nuclear facilities" by the end of 2007, according to the US Assistant Secretary of State. The details of such an agreement are due to be worked out in a session held in the People's Republic of China which will involve South Korea, China, Russia and Japan. Terms for the agreement have thus far not been disclosed, nor has it been disclosed what offer was made on the United States's part in exchange. The possibility of removing North Korea from the US list of state sponsors of terrorism has been discussed, which imposes a ban on all arms related trade with countries on the list, along with withholding US aid.On June 27, 2008, North Korea destroyed a water cooling tower at its nuclear facility in Yongbyon. It has been reported that without the cooling tower, North Korea cannot create plutonium, though The New York Times reported that "the tower is a technically insignificant structure, is relatively easy to rebuild." The implosion is being hailed as a symbolic way of showing that North Korea is committed to ending its nuclear program.Economy   observations. The largest northern group of lights, Pyongyang is dwarfed by the massive southern group showing the Seoul-Inchon metropolitan area, illustrating large differences in outdoor illumination between North Korea and its neighbours.]]  car.]] While North Korea is more developed than most African and South Asian nations with a Medium HDI of 0.766 and a GDP per capita standing at about $2,000, its strong isolation policy means that international trade is highly restricted, hampering a significant potential for future economic growth. North Korea's large economic potential can be seen when compared with its neighbour, South Korea, who has adopted a capitalist economy and is now a major economic power and a highly developed country in the world. In the aftermath of the Korean War and throughout the 1960s and early 1970s, the country's state-controlled economy grew at a significant rate before collapsing. State-owned industry produces nearly all manufactured goods. The government focuses on heavy military industry, following Kim Jong-il's adoption of the Songun "Military-First" policy.Estimates of the North Korean economy cover a broad range, as the country does not release official figures and the secretive nature of the country makes outside estimation difficult. According to accepted estimates, North Korea spends $5 billion out of a gross domestic product (GDP) of $20.9 billion on the military, compared with South Korea's $24 billion out of a GDP of $1.196 trillion. Part of the reason for this is that the military serves a number of roles in addition to national defense. The military assists farmers with crops, local areas with building of infrastrucure, and, as is similar to the National Guard in the United States, assisting during natural disasters.CIA - The World Factbook - Korea, South&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;1990s famine , the country's capital.]] In the 1990s North Korea faced significant economic disruptions, including a series of natural disasters, economic mismanagement, serious fertilizer shortages, and the collapse of the Eastern Bloc. These resulted in a shortfall of staple grain output of more than 1 million tons from what the country needs to meet internationally-accepted minimum dietary requirements. The North Korean famine known as "Arduous March" resulted in the deaths of between 300,000 and 800,000 North Koreans per year during the three year famine, peaking in 1997, with 2.0 million total being "the highest possible estimate." The deaths were most likely caused by famine-related illnesses such as pneumonia, tuberculosis, and diarrhea rather than starvation.In 2006, Amnesty International reported that a national nutrition survey conducted by the North Korean government, the World Food Programme, and UNICEF found that 7 percent of children were severely malnourished; 37 percent were chronically malnourished; 23.4 percent were underweight; and one in three mothers was malnourished and anaemic as the result of the lingering effect of the famine. The inflation caused by some of the 2002 economic reforms, including the Songun or &quot;Military-first&quot; policy, was cited for creating the increased price of basic foods.The history of Japanese assistance to North Korea has been marked with unrest; from a large pro-Pyongyang community of North Koreans in Japan to public outrage over the 1998 North Korean missile launch and revelations regarding the abduction of Japanese citizens.Stephan Haggard and Marcus Noland,'Ch6 The political economy of aid' Famine in North Korea, Columbia University Press, New York, 2007, Pg 137 In June 1995 an agreement was reached that the two countries would act jointly (Snyder1999). Stephan Haggard and Marcus Noland,'Ch6 The political economy of aid' Famine in North Korea, Columbia University Press, New York, 2007, Pg 137 South Korea would provide 150,000 MT of grain in unmarked bags, and Japan would provide 150,000 MT gratis and another 150,000 MT on concessional terms.Stephan Haggard and Marcus Noland,'Ch6 The political economy of aid' Famine in North Korea, Columbia University Press, New York, 2007, Pg 137 In October 1995 and January 1996, North Korea again approached Japan for assistance. On these two occasions, both of which came at crucial moments in the evolution of the famine, opposition from both South Korea and domestic political sources quashed the deals. Beginning in 1997, the U.S. began shipping food aid to North Korea through the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) to combat the famine. Shipments peaked in 1999 at nearly 700,000 tons making the U.S. the largest foreign aid donor to the country at the time. Under the Bush Administration, aid was drastically reduced year after year from 350,000 tons in 2001 to 40,000 in 2004. The Bush Administration took criticism for using "food as a weapon" during talks over the North's nuclear weapons program, but insisted the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) criteria were the same for all countries and the situation in North Korea had "improved significantly since its collapse in the mid-1990s." Agricultural production had increased from about 2.7 million metric tons in 1997 to 4.2 million metric tons in 2004.Foreign commerceis North Korea's light industry center.]] China and South Korea remain the largest donors of unconditional food aid to North Korea. The U.S. objects to this manner of donating food due to lack of oversight. In 2005, China and South Korea combined to provide 1 million tons of food aid, each contributing half. In addition to food aid, China reportedly provides an estimated 80 to 90 percent of North Korea's oil imports at "friendly prices" that are sharply lower than the world market price.On September 19, 2005, North Korea was promised fuel aid and various other non-food incentives from South Korea, the U.S., Japan, Russia, and China in exchange for abandoning its nuclear weapons program and rejoining the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. Providing food in exchange for abandoning weapons programs has historically been avoided by the U.S. so as not to be perceived as "using food as a weapon". Humanitarian aid from North Korea's neighbors has been cut off at times to provoke North Korea to resume boycotted talks, such as South Korea's "postponed consideration" of 500,000 tons of rice for the North in 2006 but the idea of providing food as a clear incentive (as opposed to resuming "general humanitarian aid") has been avoided. There have also been aid disruptions due to widespread theft of railroad cars used by mainland China to deliver food relief. .]] In July 2002, North Korea started experimenting with capitalism in the Kaesong Industrial Region. A small number of other areas have been designated as Special Administrative Regions, including Sinŭiju along the China-North Korea border. China and South Korea are the biggest trade partners of North Korea, with trade with China increasing 15% to US$1.6 billion in 2005, and trade with South Korea increasing 50% to over 1 billion for the first time in 2005. It is reported that the number of mobile phones in Pyongyang rose from only 3,000 in 2002 to approximately 20,000 during 2004. As of June 2004, however, mobile phones became forbidden again. A small number of capitalistic elements are gradually spreading from the trial area, including a number of advertising billboards along certain highways. Recent visitors have reported that the number of open-air farmers' markets has increased in Kaesong and Pyongyang, as well as along the China-North Korea border, bypassing the food rationing system.In an event in 2003 dubbed the "Pong Su incident", a North Korean cargo ship allegedly attempting to smuggle heroin into Australia was seized by Australian officials, strengthening Australian and United States' suspicions that Pyongyang engages in international drug smuggling. The North Korean government denied any involvement.Tourismis popular among South Korean citizens.]] .]] Tourism in North Korea is organized by the state owned Tourism Organisation ("Ryohaengsa"). Every group of travelers as well as individual tourist/visitors are permanently accompanied by one or two "guides" who normally speak the mother tongue of the tourist. The whole program is dictated by the guides; any contact with North Koreans is subdued, whenever possible. While tourism has increased over the last few years, tourists from Western countries remain few. The majority of the tourists that do go come from China and Japan. For citizens of the US and South Korea it is practically impossible to obtain a visa for North Korea. Exceptions for US citizens are made for the yearly Arirang Festival.In the area of the Kŭmgangsan-mountains, the company Hyundai established and operates a special Tourist area. Traveling to this area, one of the nicest regions on the Korean peninsula, is also possible for South Koreans and US citizens, but only in organized groups from South Korea. A special administrative region known as the Kŭmgangsan Tourist Region exists for this purpose.TransportDemographicsNorth Korea's population of roughly 23 million is one of the most ethnically and linguistically homogeneous in the world, with very small numbers of Chinese, Japanese, Vietnamese, South Korean and European expatriate minorities.Religion       Both Koreas share a Buddhist and Confucian heritage and a recent history of Christian and Cheondoism ("religion of the Heavenly Way") movements. The North Korean constitution states that freedom of religion is permitted. According to Human Rights Watch, free religious activities no longer exist in the DPRK as the government sponsors religious groups only to create an illusion of religious freedom.Pyongyang was the centre of Christian activity in Korea before the Korean War. Today, four state-sanctioned churches exist, which freedom of religion advocates say are showcases for foreigners. Official government statistics report that there are 10,000 Protestants and 4,000 Roman Catholics in North Korea.According to a ranking published by Open Doors, an organization that supports persecuted Christians, North Korea is currently the country with the most severe persecution of Christians in the world.Open Doors International : WWL: Focus on the Top Ten&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; Human rights groups such as Amnesty International also have expressed concerns about religious persecution in North Korea.According to government's statistics, as of 2000 Cheondoism is the largest organized religion in North Korea, which adherents constitute about 12.9% of the total population. Cheondoists are followed by Christians (2.1%) and Buddhists (1.5%). Korean shamanism, an unorganized system of beliefs, is followed by 12.3% of the North Koreans.LanguageNorth Korea shares the Korean language with South Korea. There are dialect differences within both Koreas, but the border between North and South does not represent a major linguistic boundary. While prevalent in the South, the adoption of modern terms from foreign languages has been limited in North Korea. Hanja (Chinese characters) are no longer used in North Korea, although still occasionally used in South Korea. Both Koreas share the phonetic writing system called Chosongul in North Korea and Hangul South of the DMZ. The official Romanization differs in the two countries, with North Korea using a slightly modified McCune-Reischauer system, and the South using the Revised Romanization of Korean.Largest citiesCulture.]] .]]  There is a vast cult of personality around Kim Il-sung and Kim Jong-il and much of North Korea's literature, popular music, theater, and film glorify the two men.A popular event in North Korea is the Mass Games. The most recent and largest Mass Games was called "Arirang". It was performed six nights a week for two months, and involved over 100,000 performers. Attendees to this event report that the anti-West sentiments have been toned down compared to previous performances. The Mass Games involve performances of dance, gymnastic, and choreographic routines which celebrate the history of North Korea and the Workers' Party Revolution. The Mass Games are held in Pyongyang at various venues (varying according to the scale of the Games in a particular year) including the May Day Stadium.Culture is officially protected by the North Korean government. Large buildings committed to culture have been built, such as the People's Palace of Culture or the Grand People's Palace of Studies, both in Pyongyang. Outside the capital, there's a major theatre in Hamhung and in every city there are State-run theatres and stadiums.Korean culture came under attack during the Japanese rule from 1910-1945. Japan enforced a cultural assimilation policy. Koreans were forced to learn and speak Japanese, adopt the Japanese family name system and Shinto religion, and forbidden to write or speak the Korean language in schools, businesses, or public places. In addition, the Japanese altered or destroyed various Korean monuments including Gyeongbok Palace and documents which portrayed the Japanese in a negative light were revised.In July 2004, the Complex of Goguryeo Tombs became the first site in the country to be included in the UNESCO list of World Heritage Sites.Administrative divisions   in Ryanggang.]]NameahangulhanjaDirectly-governed cities (Teukbyeolsi)a1Pyongyang (National Capital)]]평양 직할시平壤直轄市2Rason라선 직할시羅先直轄市Special Administrative Regions (T'ŭkbyŏl Haengjeonggu)a3Kaesŏng Industrial Region개성 공업 지구開城工業地區4Kumgangsan Tourist Region금강산 관광 지구金剛山觀光地區5Sinuiju Special Administrative Region신의주 특별 행정구新義州特別行政區Provinces6Chagang자강도慈江道7Pyongbuk]]평안 북도平安北道8Pyongnam]]평안 남도平安南道9Hwangnam]]황해 남도咸鏡南道10Hwangbuk]]황해 북도咸鏡北道11Kangwon]]강원도江原道12Hamnam]]함경 남도咸鏡南道13Hambuk]]함경 북도咸鏡北道14*]]량강도兩江道* - Sometimes rendered "Yanggang".Major citiesSee alsoList of Korea-related topicsKorean WarNotes and references Further readingJasper Becker Rogue Regime: Kim Jong Il and the Looming Threat of North Korea Oxford University Press (2005) , hardcover, 328 pages, ISBN 13: 9780195170443Gordon Cucullu, Separated At Birth: How North Korea Became The Evil Twin Globe Pequot Press (2004) , hardcover, 307 pages, ISBN 1-59228-591-0Bruce Cumings, Korea's Place in the Sun: A Modern History, W.W. Norton &amp; Company, 1998, paperback, 527 pages, ISBN 0-393-31681-5Bruce Cumings, Origins of the Korean War (Vol. 1) : Liberation and the Emergence of Separate Regimes 1945-1947, Princeton University Press, 1981, paperback, ISBN 0-691-10113-2Bruce Cumings, Origins of the Korean War (Vol. 2) : The Roaring of the Cataract 1947-1950, Cornell University Press, 2004, hardcover, ISBN 89-7696-613-9Bruce Cumings, North Korea: Another Country, New Press, 2004, paperback, ISBN 1-56584-940-XBruce Cumings, Living Through The Forgotten War: Portrait Of Korea, Mansfield Freeman Center for East Asian Studies, 2004, paperback, ISBN 0-9729704-0-1Bruce Cumings, Inventing the Axis of Evil: The Truth About North Korea, Iran, and Syria, New Press, 2006, paperback, ISBN 1-59558-038-7Delisle, Guy, Pyongyang: A Journey in North Korea, Drawn &amp; Quarterly Books, 2005, hardcover, 176 pages, ISBN 1-896597-89-0Nick Eberstadt, aka Nicholas Eberstadt, The End of North Korea, American Enterprise Institute Press (1999) , hardcover, 191 pages, ISBN 0-8447-4087-XJohn Feffer, North Korea South Korea: U.S. Policy at a Time of Crisis, Seven Stories Press, 2003, paperback, 197 pages, ISBN 1-58322-603-6Ron Goodden, North Korea commentary (August, 2007)Michael Harrold, Comrades and Strangers: Behind the Closed Doors of North Korea, Wiley Publishing, 2004, paperback, 432 pages, ISBN 0-470-86976-3Helen-Louise Hunter, Kim Il-song's North Korea. Praeger, 1999. ISBN 0-275-96296-2.Mitchell B. Lerner, The Pueblo Incident: A Spy Ship and the Failure of American Foreign Policy, University Press of Kansas, 2002, hardcover, 408 pages, ISBN 0-7006-1171-1Andrei Lankov, 'North of the DMZ: Essays on Daily Life in North Korea'' , McFarland & Company (April 24, 2007), paperback, 358 pages, ISBN 978-0786428397John Feffer, North Korea South Korea: U.S. Policy at a Time of Crisis, Seven Stories Press, 2003, paperback, 197 pages, ISBN 1-58322-603-6Oberdorfer, Don. The two Koreas : a contemporary history. Addison-Wesley, 1997, 472 pages, ISBN 0-201-40927-5Kong Dan Oh, and Ralph C. Hassig, North Korea Through the Looking Glass, The Brookings Institution, 2000, paperback, 216 pages, ISBN 0-8157-6435-9Osmond, Andrew, High, Minnow Press, 2004, paperback, 216 pages, ISBN 978-0953944828 Includes a fictional account of the creation of a new state of New Korea.Quinones, Dr. C. Kenneth, and Joseph Tragert, The Complete Idiot's Guide to Understanding North Korea, Alpha Books, 2004, paperback, 448 pages, ISBN 1-59257-169-7Sigal, Leon V., Disarming Strangers: Nuclear Diplomacy with North Korea, Princeton University Press, 199, 336 pages, ISBN 0-691-05797-4Chris Springer, Pyongyang: The Hidden History of the North Korean Capital. Saranda Books, 2003. ISBN 963-00-8104-0.Vladimir, Cyber North Korea, Byakuya Shobo, 2003, paperback, 223 pages, ISBN 4-89367-881-7Norbert Vollertsen, Inside North Korea: Diary of a Mad Place, Encounter Books, 2003, hardcover, 280 pages, ISBN 1-893554-87-2Wahn Kihl, Y. (1983) "North Korea in 1983: Transforming "The Hermit Kingdom"?" Asian Survey, Vol. 24, No. 1: pp100-111Robert Willoughby, North Korea: The Bradt Travel Guide. Globe Pequot, 2003. ISBN 1-84162-074-2.Hyun Hee Kim, "The Tears of My Soul", William Morrow and Company, Inc., 1993, hardcover, 183 pages, ISBN 0-688-12833-5Ducruet, Cesar et Jo, Jin-Cheol (2008) Coastal Cities, Port Activities and Logistic Constraints in a Socialist Developing Country: The Case of North Korea, Transport Reviews, Vol. 28, No. 1, pp. 1-25: http://www.informaworld.com/smpp/462288788-26821155/content~content=a782923580~db=all~tab=content~order=pagePictorialsChristian Kracht, Eva Munz, Lukas Nikol, "The Ministry Of Truth: Kim Jong Il's North Korea", Feral House, Oct 2007, 132 pages, 88 color photographs, ISBN 978-932595-27-7External links Official Website of the DPR KoreaOfficial Website of the DPR Korea in SwitzerlandNorth Korea Uncovered, (North Korea Google Earth) Comprehensive mapping on Google Earth of the DPRK's political and economic infrastructure, including railways, hotels, factories, military facilities, tourist destinations, cultural facilities, ports, communications, and electricity grid.KCNA - Korean Central News Agency, the official news agency of the DPRKNaenara - ("My country") DPRK's Official Web Portal run by Korea Computer Company       Category:North Korea Category:Divided regionsaf:Noord-Korea als:Nordkorea ar:كوريا الشمالية an:Corea d'o Norte frp:Corê du Nord ast:Corea del Norte az:Şimali Koreya bn:উত্তর কোরিয়া zh-min-nan:Tiâu-sián be:Паўночная Карэя be-x-old:Карэйская Народна-Дэмакратычная Рэспубліка bo:ཁྲའོ་ཤན་བྱང་རྒྱུད bs:Sjeverna Koreja br:Republik Poblel ha Demokratel Korea bg:Корейска народнодемократична република ca:Corea del Nord ceb:Amihanang Korea cs:Severní Korea cy:Gogledd Corea da:Nordkorea de:Nordkorea dv:އުތުރު ކޮރެއާ dsb:Pódpołnocna Koreja dz:བྱང་ཀོ་རི་ཡ་ et:Põhja-Korea el:Βόρεια Κορέα es:Corea del Norte eo:Nord-Koreio eu:Ipar Korea fa:کره شمالی fo:Norðurkorea fr:Corée du Nord fy:Noard-Korea ga:An Chóiré Thuaidh gv:Yn Chorea Twoaie gd:Coirea a Tuath gl:Corea do Norte - 북한 zh-classical:朝鮮民主主義人民共和國 ko:조선민주주의인민공화국 hy:Հյուսիսային Կորեա hi:उत्तरी कोरिया hsb:Sewjerna Koreja hr:Sjeverna Koreja io:Nord-Korea bpy:ঔয়াং কোরিয়া id:Korea Utara ia:Corea del Nord ie:Nord-Korea os:Корейы Адæмон Демократон Республикæ is:Norður-Kórea it:Corea del Nord he:קוריאה הצפונית jv:Koréa Lor pam:Pangulung Korea kn:ಉತ್ತರ ಕೊರಿಯಾ ka:ჩრდილოეთი კორეა csb:Kòrejańskô Lëdowò-Demokratnô Repùblika kk:Солтүстік Корея kw:Korea Gledh sw:Korea Kaskazini ht:Kore dinò ku:Korêya Bakur lad:Korea del Nord la:Respublica Populi Democratica Coreae lv:Ziemeļkoreja lb:Demokratesch Volleksrepublik Korea lt:Šiaurės Korėja li:Noord-Korea lmo:Corea del Nòrd hu:Koreai Népi Demokratikus Köztársaság mk:Северна Кореја ml:ഉത്തര കൊറിയ mr:उत्तर कोरिया ms:Korea Utara nah:Corea Mictlāmpa na:Republik Engame Korea nl:Noord-Korea ja:朝鮮民主主義人民共和国 no:Nord-Korea nn:Nord-Korea nov:Nord Korea oc:Corèa del Nòrd uz:Shimoliy Koreya ps:د کوريا ولسواک خلق جمهوريت pms:Coréa dël Nòrd nds:Noordkorea pl:Korea Północna pt:Coreia do Norte crh:Şimaliy Koreya ro:Coreea de Nord qu:Chinchay Hansuyu ru:Корейская Народно-Демократическая Республика se:Davvi-Korea sq:Korea Veriore scn:Corea dû Nord simple:North Korea sk:Kórejská ľudovodemokratická republika sl:Severna Koreja szl:Koryjo Půunocno sr:Северна Кореја sh:Demokratska Narodna Republika Koreja su:Koréa Kalér fi:Korean demokraattinen kansantasavalta sv:Nordkorea tl:Hilagang Korea ta:வடகொரியா te:ఉత్తర కొరియా th:ประเทศเกาหลีเหนือ vi:Cộng hòa Dân chủ Nhân dân Triều Tiên tg:Куриёи Шимолӣ tpi:Not Koria tr:Kuzey Kore tk:Demirgazyk Koreýa udm:Корея Калык-Демократи Республика uk:Північна Корея ur:شمالی کوریا vo:Nolüda-Koreyän war:Amihanan nga Korea wuu:朝鲜 yi:צפון קארעע zh-yue:朝鮮民主主義人民共和國 diq:Korya Zımey bat-smg:Šiaurės Kuoriejė zh:朝鲜民主主义人民共和国