  |birth_place = London, England |death_date = |death_place = |residence =UKAustraliaU.S. |citizenship = Dual British-Australian |nationality = |ethnicity = |fields = Physicist |workplaces = Arizona State UniversityUniversity of CambridgeUniversity of AdelaideMacquarie UniversityUniversity of Newcastle |alma_mater = University College London |doctoral_advisor = Michael J. SeatonSigurd Zienau |academic_advisors = Fred Hoyle |doctoral_students = Nicholas BirrellEdmund CopelandKerry HintonDon Koks Andrew MataczWilliam Walker |notable_students = |known_for = Fulling-Davies-Unruh effectBunch-Davies vacuum state |author_abbrev_bot = |author_abbrev_zoo = |influences = |influenced = |awards = Kelvin Medal (2001)Faraday Prize (2002)Templeton Prize (1995) |religion = His position is "undecided". His writings are technically agnostic, non-Platonistic, with a leaning towards minimalistic Deism. |signature = |footnotes = Paul Charles William Davies (born April 22, 1946) is a British-born physicist, writer and broadcaster, presently a professor at Arizona State University, as well as the Director of BEYOND: Center for Fundamental Concepts in Science. He has held previous academic appointments at the University of Cambridge, University of London, University of Newcastle upon Tyne, University of Adelaide and Macquarie University. His research interests are in the fields of cosmology, quantum field theory, and astrobiology. He has proposed that a one-way trip to Mars could be a viable option.In 2005, he took up the chair of the SETI: Post-Detection Science and Technology Taskgroup of the International Academy of Astronautics.EducationIn 1970, he completed his PhD entitled Contributions to Theoretical Physics: (i) Radiation Damping in the Optical Continuum (ii) A Quantum Theory of Wheeler-Feynman Electrodynamics under Michael J. Seaton and Sigurd Zienau at University College London. He then was a postdoc under Fred Hoyle at the University of Cambridge.Scientific researchDavies's inquiries have included theoretical physics, cosmology, and astrobiology; his research has been mainly in the area of quantum field theory in curved spacetime. Notable contributions are the so-called Fulling-Davies-Unruh effect, according to which an observer accelerating through empty space will perceive a bath of thermal radiation, and the Bunch-Davies vacuum state, often used as the basis for explaining the fluctuations in the cosmic background radiation left over from the big bang. A paper co-authored with Stephen Fulling and William Unruh was the first to suggest that black holes evaporating via the Hawking effect lose mass as a result of a flux of negative energy streaming into the hole from the surrounding space. Davies has had a longstanding association with the problem of time’s arrow, and was also a forerunner of the theory that life on Earth may have come from Mars cocooned in rocks ejected by asteroid and comet impacts. During his time in Australia he helped establish the Australian Centre for Astrobiology.BooksHe has produced over twenty books, including:1974 The Physics of Time Asymmetry1978 The Runaway Universe/Stardoom1980 Other Worlds1981 The Edge of Infinity1982 The Accidental Universe1982 Quantum Fields in Curved Space (with N.D. Birrell)1983 God and the New Physics1984 Superforce1986 The Ghost in the Atom1987 The Cosmic Blueprint1991 The Matter Myth1992 The Mind of God1994 The Last Three Minutes1995 Are We Alone?1995 About Time1998 The Fifth Miracle2001 How to Build a Time Machine2007 The Goldilocks Enigma, also under the title Cosmic Jackpot2008 Quantum Aspects of Life (Eds. Derek Abbott, Paul C. W. Davies, and Arun K. Pati, with foreword by Sir Roger Penrose)Essays and papers"What Happened Before the Big Bang?" in God for the 21st Century, Russell Stannard ed., Templeton Foundation Press, 2000, ISBN 1890151394AwardsDavies' talent as a communicator of science has been recognized in Australia by an Advance Australia Award and two Eureka Prizes, and in the UK by the 2001 Kelvin Medal and Prize by the Institute of Physics, and the 2002 Faraday Prize by The Royal Society. Davies received the Templeton Prize in 1995.Davies was made a member of the Order of Australia in the 2007 Queen's birthday honours listHe has an Erdős Number of three.The AMS collaboration data base (corroborated by Jerry Grossman, 2007, private communication) lists this path: Borosh, I.; Chui, C. K.; Erdos, P. On changes of signs in infinite series. (Russian summary) Anal. Math. 4 (1978), no. 1, 3–12. \rightarrow Fulling, Stephen A.(1-TXAM); Borosh, Itshak(1-TXAM); da Conturbia, Andrea(1-TXAM) Cataloguing general graphs by point and line spectra. (English summary) Comput. Phys. Comm. 115 (1998), no. 2-3, 93–112. \rightarrow Davies, P. C. W.; Fulling, S. A.; Christensen, S. M.; Bunch, T. S. Energy-momentum tensor of a massless scalar quantum field in a Robertson-Walker universe. Ann. Physics 109 (1977), no. 1, 108–142. CriticismDavies' sympathy towards religion's reliance on faith has been criticized by the prominent atheist Richard Dawkins: Paul Davies's The Mind of God seems to hover somewhere between Einsteinian pantheism and an obscure form of deism - for which he was rewarded with the Templeton Prize (a very large sum of money given annually by the Templeton Foundation, usually to a scientist who is prepared to say something nice about religion).RichardDawkins.netA number of physicists and scientists from other areas of study have criticized Davies for his New York Times article, "Taking Science on Faith", for equating science too strongly with religion, or for creating that impression for the general public.onclick|L10 Edge.org Fellow theoretical physicists such as Lee Smolin criticized Davies while agreeing with his basic argument:"Davies point is that if we just accept the laws and initial conditions of the whole universe as just given, with no further explanation, then we are reducing science to faith in the unexplained. He is right about this, but he doesn't emphasize that these questions are avoided in most domains of science" - Lee SmolinMedia activityDavies writes and comments on scientific and philosophical issues. He made a documentary series for BBC Radio 3, and two Australian television series, The Big Questions and More Big Questions. His BBC documentary ‘The Cradle of Life’ featured the subject of his Faraday Prize lecture. He writes regularly for newspapers and magazines worldwide.Davies in popular cultureHe is heavily referenced in the novel Naive, Super by Norwegian writer Erlend Loe (translated by Tor Ketil Solberg), published in 1996.See alsoQuantum Aspects of LifeReferencesDavies videosDavies on an Ultimate Explanation Part 1/5Davies on an Ultimate Explanation Part 2/5Davies on an Ultimate Explanation Part 3/5Davies on an Ultimate Explanation Part 4/5Davies on an Ultimate Explanation Part 5/5[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EN37aZwEBXE Davies' talking about Cosmic Jackpot]External linksPaul Davies @ Arizona State UniversityBEYOND: Center for Fundamental Concepts in ScienceInterview with Paul Davies at Astroseti.OrgSETI: Post-Detection Science and Technology TaskgroupSummary of Davies' works and biographyDavies' math genealogyBibliography in SpanishDavies' celebrity IMDB profile  Category:1946 births Category:Living people Category:Companions of the Order of the Bath Category:Alumni of University College London Category:Alumni of the University of Cambridge Category:Members of the International Society for Science and Religion Category:Templeton Prize laureates Category:Deist thinkers Category:Fellows of the Royal Society of Literature Category:Quantum physicists Category:Cosmologists Category:Religion and sciencede:Paul Davies es:Paul Davies fr:Paul Davies it:Paul Davies ht:Paul Davies hu:Paul Davies nl:Paul Davies pl:Paul Davies (fizyk) pt:Paul Davies sk:Paul Davies fi:Paul Davies