 |birth_place = Bellinzona, Switzerland |death_date = |death_place = |height =  |weight = 74 kg |occupation = Football referee, proprietor |nationality =  Swiss Massimo Busacca (born February 6, 1969 in Bellinzona) is a top Swiss football referee. He lives in Monte Carasso, an Italian-speaking part of Switzerland near Bellinzona, and is also the proprietor of a business.Factsheet 2 - Korrektur&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Busacca used to play football in a lower division in Ticino, but became a referee in 1990WorldReferee.com - referee - Massimo Busacca - bio&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;. He has been a referee in the Swiss Super League since 1996, and a FIFA referee since 1999.Busacca enjoys skiing and tennis, and his hobbies include travelling.http://www.ratetheref.net/ref/view/28/massimo-busacca Rate The Ref - Massimo BusaccaCareer2006 FIFA World CupBusacca was chosen to be a referee at the 2006 FIFA World Cup in Germany.While refereeing a World Cup match between Ukraine and Spain, Busacca made a decision against Vladislav Vaschuk, giving the player a red card and awarding a penalty kick against Ukraine in the 47th minute of the match. Multiple angles of the infraction showed no physical contact inside the penalty area, preceded by a tug on the pants of Fernando Torres in the penalty area by Vladislav Vaschuk. David Villa of Spain slotted home the resulting penalty against Ukrainian keeper Oleksandr Shovkovsky. The refereeing decision was criticized by numerous fans. Observers point out that subsequently, in a similar situation involving Ukraine's Andriy Voronin and the Spanish defence, the referee decided no foul had occurred.In a later match in the 2006 FIFA World Cup, he was criticised for not showing the red card to Argentinian defender Gabriel Heinze after an errant throw by Argentinian goalkeeper Roberto Abbondanzieri resulted in a breakaway by Mexican striker Francisco Fonseca and a subsequent foul by Heinze. Bussacca decided to only give Heinze a yellow card, despite the Argentinian being the last man to beat.Busacca was one of the twelve referees who remained in the play-off rounds from the quarter finals onwards.2006 Basel Hooligan Incident Busacca refereed an infamous Swiss Super League match on the last day of the 2005-2006 season between FC Basel and FC Zürich at St. Jakob Park in Basel. FC Basel, who hadn't lost at home in the past 59 league matches at St. Jakob Park, only needed a draw to secure their fourth championship in five years. The game was still tied at the 90-minute mark, but at the end of the very last minute of stoppage time, Zürich defender Iulian Filipescu scored the winning goal, immediately followed by Busacca's final whistle. At that point, many fans, mostly Basel fans, stormed the field. Basel supporters attacked Zürich players and fought with Zürich supporters. More trouble continued outside the park throughout the night.2007 UEFA Cup FinalBusacca took charge of the 2007 UEFA Cup Final at Hampden Park on May 16, one of the biggest appointments for a UEFA referee. Busacca sent off RCD Espanyol midfielder Moisés Hurtado for a second bookable offence during the match. |score = 2 &ndash; 2 (a.e.t.)(1 &ndash; 3 pen.) |report=(Report) |team2 =  Sevilla |goals1=Riera Jônatas  Moisés Hurtado  |goals2= Adriano  Frédéric Kanouté  Luís Fabiano  Frédéric Kanouté Antonio Puerta |stadium = Hampden Park, Glasgow Attendance: 52,000 Pandiani Jônatas Torrejón  |penalties2= Kanouté Dragutinović Daniel Alves Antonio Puerta UEFA Euro 2008Busacca was selected to referee at the UEFA Euro 2008 tournament in Austria and Switzerland.Referees named for EURO 2008, uefa.com, December 19, 2007At the tournament, Busacca was the referee for the:Group C game between Netherlands and Romania.Group D game between Greece and Sweden.Semi Final match between Germany and Turkey.Referee Rosetti gets Euro 2008 final, AFP, June 24, 2008Other MatchesOn March 24, 2007, Busacca was appointed to referee a UEFA Euro 2008 qualification match between Spain and Denmark at the Santiago Bernabéu, Madrid.In the match, he sent off Danish defender Niclas Jensen after 20 minutes in the first half. Till that point the game had been dominated by the Danes. The red card changed the course of the game, and Spain won 2-1. Danish coach Morten Olsen was also sent off in the match.References Weltfussball ProfileFIFA ProfileExternal linksRate Massimo in the Euro 2008 Finals  Herbert Fandel |after=UEFA Cup Final 2008 Peter Fröjdfeldt |years='Final 2007 Massimo Busacca'  Category:1969 births Category:Living people Category:Swiss football referees Category:2006 FIFA World Cup refereesar:ماسيمو بوساكا da:Massimo Busacca de:Massimo Busacca es:Massimo Busacca fr:Massimo Busacca it:Massimo Busacca mt:Massimo Busacca nl:Massimo Busacca no:Massimo Busacca pl:Massimo Busacca pt:Massimo Busacca ru:Бузакка, Массимо sv:Massimo Busacca