     | birthplace = Pembroke, Ontario, Canada | othername = | occupation = Comedian | yearsactive = 1992–present | spouse(s) = Drew Barrymore (2001-2002) | goldenraspberryawards = Worst Director2001 Freddy Got FingeredWorst Actor2001 Freddy Got FingeredWorst Screen Couple2001 Freddy Got FingeredWorst Screenplay2001 Freddy Got Fingered Michael Thomas "Tom" Green (born July 30, 1971) is a Canadian actor, rapper, writer, comedian and television personality. He currently hosts the internet talk show Tom Green's House Tonight. Born in Pembroke, Ontario, Green grew up in suburban Ottawa. He is regarded as a pioneer of a type of "shock humor" found in Jackass, Fear Factor and other reality shows.CareerRap careerIn the early 1990s, Tom Green had a short-lived career as a rapper in a group called Organized Rhyme. He came back in 2005 with his rap group, The Keeping it Real Crew, featuring DJ EZ Mike of the Dust Brothers. In late 2005, Tom released his first solo rap album, titled Prepare For Impact. He has received offers from such rap artists as Spice 1 and Bushwick Bill of the Geto Boys to appear on his raps. He has performed with Too Short, Flava Flav, Grand Buffet, Mickey Avalon, People Under the Stairs, Xzibit and other popular rap artists on his Tom Green Live show. In early 2008 a second solo rap album titled Basement Jams was released in download only format.Early careerWhile attending Algonquin College, Green hosted an over-night call-in show on the University of Ottawa's campus radio station, CHUO. The show, originally a rap music show, was followed by an electronic music show hosted by Glenn Humplik. Through the proximity of their shows, Tom and Glenn met and became friends, based on a common love of zany antics. Tom's radio show soon shifted formats to a call-in show (upon the discovery of how to operate the studio's call-in lines) and the two joined forces to host The Midnight Caller Show. The basic format of The Midnight Caller was to have listeners call-in with Tom and Glenn making fun of them (or "razzing" them) and soon after hanging-up on them. The show's novelty and originality made it an underground hit in the Ottawa area.The first incarnation of The Tom Green Show began in September 1994 as a cable access program on Rogers Television 22 in the Ottawa region until 1996. The show would later be picked up in Canada by The Comedy Network in 1997 and then MTV in January 1999, where he gained popularity in the United States. The Tom Green Show was a variety show format, where he would have guests visit the studio and bands play before a live audience. He also had taped segments that typically consisted of stunts played by Green on unsuspecting people. A number of them involved Green's parents, Mary Jane and Richard Green, who consistently appeared unamused and occasionally angered by Tom's antics.As an example of his audacity, in a March 2000 episode, Tom brought Monica Lewinsky to his parents' home in Canada to search for fabric for her new business venture in designing handbags. In a similar vein to his later faux attempt at an on-air marriage to Drew Barrymore on Saturday Night Live, Tom and Monica fooled local reporters with an "important announcement" which turned out to be nothing more than a request for more fabric for Lewinsky's handbags.A frequent rumour says that the show was cancelled because of an alleged segment where Green shows up at a bar mitzvah, or another Jewish event, dressed as Adolf Hitler. Green, however, has repeatedly denied that such a segment exists, and there is no evidence to suggest otherwise.Urban Legends Reference Pages: Tom Green Hitler Bar Mitzvah&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Some of Green's most notable skits include pretending to "hump" a dead moose,Referenced by rapper Eminem in The Real Slim Shady having an X-rated lesbian scene painted on his father's car (labeled the "Slut Mobile"), drinking milk by sucking on a cow's teat, and putting a cow head in his parents' bed while they slept because his father was a fan of The Godfather films. Green also hung his own unauthorized piece of art in the National Gallery of Canada (which remained untouched for days), similar to the subsequent exploits of British graffiti artist Banksy, with the added twist of later coming back and vandalizing it to the horror of onlooking patrons. In one segment, Tom went to the press conference of Grey Owl where he serenaded and kissed Pierce Brosnan. Brosnan, thinking Green was a journalist, advised him not to give up his day job. Green also did many segments humiliating his co-host and longtime friend Glenn Humplik; even after the pair had become well-known, Humplik continued working at his phone company job, fearing that his entertainment career might not last. Green teased him about this often and once gave out Humplik's office phone number on the air.In 2003, he also had a nightly talk show The New Tom Green Show, in the style of Jay Leno, at midnight on MTV. The show lasted several months, and was much more mainstream and similar to his later Tom Green Live format. Jesse James Dupree, the frontman of the Southern rock band Jackyl, made the ill-advised decision to take a chainsaw to Tom Green’s new desk when he appeared on Green’s short-lived MTV talk show in 2003. The unplanned stunt clearly irritated Green and he made no attempt to hide his displeasure. He eventually began his planned musical performance (himself on drums and Dupree on guitar) but continued to verbally spar with Dupree for a short period before abandoning the drums mid-song in apparent disgust and walking off stage. Later on in the evening, he again insulted the band by holding up Jackyl's most recent album and advising viewers to "check it out if you like music that was cool fifteen years ago" and then proceeded to smash it with a hammer.Beyond televisionAfter the show moved to MTV, Green gained fame in the United States. This fame soon netted Green roles in several Hollywood movies, including Road Trip, Charlie's Angels, Freddy Got Fingered (which he also directed), and Stealing Harvard. Freddy Got Fingered "won" in five categories at the 2001 Golden Raspberry Awards, given to the worst movies of the year. Green appeared at the ceremony to accept his awards, making him the second recipient to do so in the award's twenty-year history, following Paul Verhoeven for Showgirls in 1995.He also wrote a song called "Lonely Swedish (The Bum Bum Song)", which he composed during MTV's Spring Break while doing a show on a cruise ship. After airing the music video on his show and appealing to his audience to request it, the song became an instant number one hit on Total Request Live. He quickly called for the video to be retired because "it's not fair to 98 Degrees." Later, in his autobiography, he revealed that MTV had pressured him to do so in order to maintain the image that Total Request Live was, in fact, a live request show (the next week's episodes had been pre-taped on location, and the producers of the show were completely unaware of "The Bum Bum Song" at the time).Green's increasing fame made it harder for him to ambush people on the streets, leading him to target mostly senior citizens and non-English speakers. After he was diagnosed with testicular cancer in March 2000, he stopped production on his TV show, but he continued to appear on the channel via reruns and other promotional materials. He made a one-hour special on his ordeal with cancer, including graphic footage of his own surgery. The episode received wide critical acclaim for revealing a vulnerable, human side of an otherwise juvenile television personality. In March 2002 he also starred in and directed a one-hour special called The Tom Green Subway Monkey Hour, where he tormented strangers in Japan.More mainstreamIn recent years, Green has tried to put some of his more controversial material behind him and become a more mainstream entertainer. Currently, Green is a recurring contributor to The Tonight Show with Jay Leno; he has done many segments where he travels across America looking for "interesting people", typically bringing the most colourful person with him back to the studio. In these segments, the focus is more on the odd behaviour of the interviewees, with Green generally playing the straight man. This is the Art Linkletter People are Funny act from the 1940s. Green had one film scheduled for release in 2006. Green has also attempted to build his teen and child audience with more wholesome material. In 2005, Green starred in a children's TV movie, Bob the Butler, and he has made guest appearances on various kid shows. Furthermore, Green is editing a new film which he also directed and starred in tentatively titled Prankstar. No further details about the film have yet been released.In 2003, Green visited troops in Kosovo on a USO tour. He visited troops in the Persian Gulf on a 2004 tour.the channel live tonight, the channel, maniatv, official Tom Green Road Trip Hollywood Causes Cancer Freddy Got Fingered Blog Live 8 Juno Awards&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Tom Green's autobiographyHollywood Causes Cancer (ISBN 1400052777), co-written with Allen Rucker was released on October 12, 2004. He also maintains a blog on his official website.Green has acted as host for a variety of special events, including the 2005 Canada's Walk of Fame induction ceremony, the Canadian Live 8 concert, and the 2005 CASBY Awards. Also, in early 2006, Green appeared in several commercials for the Canadian Cable Public Affairs Channel promoting both the channel and encouraging voters to participate in the forthcoming federal elections, which took place on January 23, 2006.On December 6, 2005 Green released his second solo album Prepare For Impact, his first being Not The Green Tom Show released in 1998, as his alter-ego MC Face.On August 3, 2006, Tom appeared on America's Got Talent. He rode a skateboard through a flaming hoop, appeared to be on fire for a few seconds, and was put out with extinguishers. It was confirmed on the August 3 episode of Tom Green Live that it was a stunt man, not Green, that did the stunt. The show contained a behind the scenes look on how the stunt was done. On the first season finale of America's Got Talent, there was an unaired segment that was scheduled to appear after singers Aly and AJ. The segment featured Tom Green dressing in a parrot costume, and squawking with a live parrot, to communicate "telepathically." Green then proceeded to fly up above the audience, and shot confetti streamers out of his costume onto the crowd below.In April 2008 it was announced that Tom Green will be hosting a game show on the Discovery Planet Green television network. The show is titled Go For The Green!Behind the scene video (formerly titled Green's Got Game) and is scheduled to premiere during the fourth quarter of 2008.Tom has made several appearances as a celebrity contestant on the ABC reality game show Wanna Bet?, including the shows premiere episode in July 2008.Tom will also be a celebrity contestant on the upcoming season of The Apprentice, scheduled to premiere in January 2009.''Tom Green's House Tonight''On June 5, 2006, ManiaTV.com announced they had formed a partnership with Green to host a live talk show from his own living room in the Hollywood Hills overlooking the San Fernando Valley. The first show aired live on June 15,2006 at 11pm EST and was originally called Tom Green Live.[http://tv.yahoo.com/news/ap/20060604/114944196000.html Tom Green Live] Shortly after Tom's split from ManiaTV the show was renamed to Tom Green's House Tonight in January 2008. The shows are broadcast live at TomGreen.com and a pared-down version is later broadcast on The Comedy Network.Guests on the show have included stars such as Adam Carolla, Val Kilmer, Thora Birch, Pamela Anderson, hip-hop artists Blackalicious and Xzibit, skateboarder Tony Hawk, stunt man Steve-O, former TRL host and talk show host Carson Daly, guitarist Dave Navarro, actor Crispin Glover, Digg.com founder Kevin Rose, comedic musician &quot;Weird Al&quot; Yankovic, as well as comedians Andrew Dice Clay, Joe Rogan and Andy Dick. Due to lack of an established term, Tom often refers to his live streaming broadcast as "Web-o-Vision." He also jokingly says he is broadcasting to "The National Internet", despite the show having a worldwide audience.Marriage to Drew BarrymoreIn July 2000, Tom Green became engaged to actress Drew Barrymore. Green and Barrymore met after Barrymore, who was a fan of Green's show, asked Green to appear in Charlie's Angels which Barrymore starred in and produced.During the build up to their wedding Green and Barrymore frequently joked with the media about when and where they were going to wed. The most notable incident came on November 18, 2000 when Green hosted the American television show Saturday Night Live. During the monologue, Green brought Barrymore on stage and teased the audience about the couple marrying at the end of the episode. Ultimately, the stage was set for a wedding before Barrymore, in the end, got "cold feet." The SNL incident initially left viewers and the media confused about whether the couple had actually planned to marry on live TV, or were simply staging a publicity stunt. Eventually, Green also went on The Tonight Show to toy with the public once again, this time claiming that his bride might be pregnant.On February 18, 2001, there was a housefire at the residence of Green and Barrymore. Their dog Flossie woke them around 3:30 a.m. when she barked and "literally banged on their bedroom door." Firefighters estimated damage at $700,000 in the two-story, 3,500 square foot (325 m²) home located north of Beverly Hills at 9500 Cherokee Lane. The incident was soon spoofed on Saturday Night Live with guest host Katie Holmes playing Drew Barrymore and Jimmy Fallon playing Tom Green.KXLA Special Report&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Barrymore appeared in her then-fiance's infamous 2001 film Freddy Got Fingered. Green and Barrymore married on July 7, 2001. According to his autobiography, Barrymore, a recovering drug addict, offered Green marijuana shortly after they were married.On October 13, 2001, Drew Barrymore hosted Saturday Night Live and Tom Green appeared in the audience wearing a gas mask. The episode came just a month after the September 11th terrorist attacks in New York City, where SNL is produced. Reportedly, Barrymore was already anxious about flying to New York. When news broke that NBC's Rockefeller Center studios where they were rehearsing had received a package containing anthrax, Barrymore fled the set in tears, vowing never to return.. Barrymore and Green filed for divorce on December 17, 2001, citing irreconcilable differences. Their divorce became official on October 15, 2002.FilmographyThe Chicken Tree (1998)Clutch (1998)Superstar (1999)Road Trip (2000)Charlie's Angels (2000)Freddy Got Fingered (2001)Stealing Harvard (2002)Grind (2003)Bob the Butler (2005)The Big Bang Theory (2008)Upcoming:Prankstar (2008)Legacy (2008)Shred (2008)Shred 2 (2008)Freezer Burn: The Invasion of Laxdale (2008)Division III (2008)DiscographyAlbumsYearAlbums2008Basement Jams2005Prepare For Impact1998Not The Green Tom Show1992Huh? Stiffin' Against The WallSinglesYearSingles1999"Lonely Swedish (The Bum Bum Song)"2005"I'm an Idiot"2005"Teachers Suck"Music videosOrganized Rhyme"Check The O.R." (Huh? Stiffenin' Against The Wall, 1992)MC Face"Slaughter Ya Oughta" (Not The Green Tom Show, 1998)Tom Green"Lonely Swedish (The Bum Bum Song)" (1999)"Teachers Suck" (Prepare For Impact, 2005)"I'm An Idiot" (Prepare For Impact, 2005)"Bobbin' To The Right" (Basement Jams, 2008)"State Of Emergency" (Basement Jams, 2008)"Rap Overdose" (Basement Jams, 2008)NotesExternal linksOfficial website Category:1971 births Category:Canadian bloggers Category:Canadian television comedians Category:Canadian rappers Category:Canadian film actors Category:Living people Category:People from Ottawa Category:Algonquin College alumni Category:Canadian television talk show hosts Category:Worst Actor Razzie winners Category:Game show contestants Category:Cancer survivorsbg:Том Грийн da:Tom Green de:Tom Green es:Tom Green fr:Tom Green id:Tom Green it:Tom Green nl:Tom Green no:Tom Green pl:Tom Green pt:Tom Green simple:Tom Green sl:Tom Green fi:Tom Green sv:Tom Green