The Dandy Warhols are a rock band formed in Portland, Oregon by Courtney Taylor-Taylor (vocals, guitar), Zia McCabe (keyboard), Peter Holmström (guitar), and Eric Hedford (drums). When Hedford left in 1998, Taylor-Taylor's cousin Brent De Boer replaced him as drummer. The band's name is a play on the name of pop artist Andy Warhol. The Dandy Warhols are strongly influenced by The Velvet Underground, Beach Boys, Simon and Garfunkel, The Beatles, The Shadows, and The Rolling Stones as well as including implicit musical references to My Bloody Valentine in some songs. Front man Courtney Taylor-Taylor describes the band beginning as a group of friends who "needed music to drink to." BiographyEarly SuccessThe Dandy Warhols performed live shows in bars throughout Portland and released their first album, Dandys Rule, OK? on Tim Kerr Records in 1995. This album was influential in Capitol Records' decision to sign the band.The band first achieved success in Europe after the release of their second record …The Dandy Warhols Come Down in 1997; the lead single "Not If You Were The Last Junkie on Earth" proved popular in many countries across the continent. The band, popular both visually and sonically, gained a reputation throughout Europe and Australia for selling out their live shows.Following the release of Thirteen Tales from Urban Bohemia in 2000, the band gained a firm fan base in the college radio scene before garnering critical acclaim and mainstream recognition. The album reached platinum status in the UK along with Greece and various other European countries. It also went platinum in Australia where they tour extensively. Judd Apatow's tv series Undeclared used the song "Solid" as its theme song. The song "Bohemian Like You" was featured in the indie film Igby Goes Down, Buffy the Vampire Slayer and was used in a Vodafone advertising campaign through out Europe and Australia in 2001. The advertisement money was used to buy a quarter city block in Portland, Oregon (the band's hometown) dubbed "The Odditorium" for use as film and recording studios, as well as being a clubhouse for the band to throw parties and host catered dinners. The band's music has been frequently used in advertising ever since.Welcome to the Monkey HouseWelcome to the Monkey House, released in 2003, was co-produced by Nick Rhodes of Duran Duran and engineered by Brian Coates of The Great Northwest. The album takes its title from Kurt Vonnegut's collection of short stories of the same name. The recording features an eighties synth-rock sound that alienated some devotees of the band's earlier harder-edged guitar sound. It also won critical plaudits for its polish, panache, and the band's capacity to reinvent itself. One of the album's singles, "We Used to Be Friends", was used as the theme song for the Australian reality series My Restaurant Rules, and later on the American cult drama Veronica Mars. It also was used on an episode of The O.C. (Season 1 Episode 12) as well as on an episode of Wonderfalls (Season 1, Episode 4). "I Am a Scientist" is featured on most episodes of the British television program Brainiac: Science Abuse (it plays in the background of the "I Can Do Science Me" segment).Odditorium or Warlords of MarsOdditorium or Warlords of Mars, partially named after and recorded in the band's Portland studio, The Odditorium, was released on September 13, 2005. "Smoke It" was the first track released for radio play. The album has been described as a return to form for the band, moving away from the synth-heavy sound of Welcome to the Monkey House and back toward the largely guitar-oriented, diverse arrangements of Thirteen Tales from Urban Bohemia....Earth to the Dandy Warhols...The band released their sixth record, ...Earth to the Dandy Warhols... digitally through a subscription service on May 19, 2008. The CD version was released on August 18, 2008. The double-disc LP includes a cd version along with the full album on vinyl. The album also featured collaborations with Mark Knopfler and the Heartbreakers' Mike Campbell.Other DevelopmentsAlong with The Brian Jonestown Massacre, The Dandy Warhols were the subjects of the 2004 documentary DiG! This film captured a love-hate relationship between both bands, highlighting the interaction of BJM frontman Anton Newcombe and Courtney Taylor. It was recorded over the course of seven years by Ondi Timoner. It won the Documentary Grand Jury Prize at the 2004 Sundance Film Festival.Guitarist Peter Holmstrom appears as a guest musician on The Dead Stars On Hollywood EP entitled Anthems for the Friendly-Fire Generation.In December 2006, the song "Have A Kick Ass Summer (Me and My Friends)" was featured in the downloadable song-pack for the Xbox video game Dance Dance Revolution ULTRAMIX 4.The Dandy Warhols' songs were featured prominently in the first and third season of the FOX drama The O.C. along with numerous major motion pictures. They were also featured in the movie 9 Songs.Covering a song for the upcoming tribute to The Cure on Manimal Vinyl Records .The Dandy Warhols are releasing a collaborative album called Breathe Easy, starting October 21, 2008 to benefit conservation projects. The recordings took place at the Dandy Warhols' own recording studio called The Odditorium in Portland, Oregon. They collaborated with bands such as: The Bravery, The Kooks, Dinosaur Jr's J Mascis, Spoon and others.Discography AlbumsDandys Rule, OK? (1995)…The Dandy Warhols Come Down (1997)Thirteen Tales from Urban Bohemia (2000)The Dandy Warhols Are Sound (2002)Welcome To The Monkey House (2003)The Black Album (1996, 2004)Come on Feel the Dandy Warhols (2004)Odditorium or Warlords of Mars (2005)...Earth to the Dandy Warhols... (2008)The Dandy Warhols in televisionCourtney Taylor-Taylor guest-starred as himself in an episode of The Loop, a FOX comedy series. The episode also guest-starred Adam Brody of The O.C. as a gay man going to a party attended by Courtney.The Dandy Warhols were reportedly featured in the movie Confessions of a Teenage Drama Queen but (supposedly) the scene was edited out of the final cut. Courtney Taylor-Taylor can be seen walking by the camera wearing a Dandy Warhols t-shirt. He is billed as Courtney Alan Taylor.Caroline Preiss and Alex Rankine, characters on the Australian crime drama Stingers, once made a comment referencing that they had met the Dandy Warhols at a party the night before, whilst wearing matching Dandy Warhols banana t-shirts.The Dandy Warhols are referenced in Patton Oswalt's album Feelin' Kinda Patton in a bit about hiding all the cool stuff you did in your youth from your children.Uses of the Dandy Warhols' music in televisionIn Veronica Mars"We Used to Be Friends" from Welcome to the Monkey House features as the title theme of the series. The song is referenced in the season one episode "Lord of the Bling" when Veronica says, "We used to be friends...a long time ago."The first episode features the song "Insincere Because I", and "Little Drummer Boy" features in "An Echolls Family Christmas".A sticker on Veronica's locker in the first season bears a strong resemblance to the cover of the album Welcome to the Monkey House, which features a banana against a black background.Courtney Taylor-Taylor made a guest star appearance in the season two episode "Cheatty Cheatty Bang Bang" performing the song "Love Hurts".For the season three opening credits, the producers changed the visual style of the opening credits and asked if they could remix "We Used To Be Friends" to better suit the new noir style opening. The Dandy Warhols agreed and also suggested the remix studio that was eventually used. This remixed "noir" version of "We Used To Be Friends" has yet to be commercially released or even heard in its entirety.In The O.C."We Used to Be Friends" is used throughout the episode "The Secret"."(You Come In) Burned" is used in the episode "The Best Chrismukkah Ever"."Holding Me Up" is used in the episode "The Perfect Storm".The Channel 4 television comedy-drama Teachers, features many of the band's recordings throughout the four series. Tracks featured include "Get Off", "Cool Scene", "Boys Better", "Cool As Kim Deal", "Solid", "Every Day Should Be A Holiday", "Godless", "Bohemian Like You", "The Dandy Warhols Love Almost Everyone", "I Am Sound", "You Were The Last High", "Plan A", "We Used to Be Friends" and "Little Drummer Boy"."Bohemian Like You" is heard:on the second Buffy the Vampire Slayer soundtrack album, Radio Sunnydale, after it appeared in the season five episode "Triangle".as a background track during a scene in the movie Flushed Away.in the movie The Replacements, twice.in an episode of Six Feet Under, and on the show's soundtrack album.in the opening of the episode "Longshot" from the television show Numb3rs in 2007.as the theme song for the Infogrames game Le Mans 24 Hours.in an Israeli commercial in 2008.in a Holden commercial in 2002.in various VH1 shows, including The Fabulous Life of....in a party scene in the movie Igby Goes Downas the theme song for BBC Radio 5 Live's programme 606 Football phone in.as intro in 24 hours of le mans Playstation 1 game."Get Off" is heard:in the Counter-Strike movie Chicks Dig X-Pec.in the snowboarding video Saturation by Absinthe Films.in the "Blind" skateboard video What If? during Jake Duncombe's sectionin the British comedy Teachers"Boys Better" is heard:in Good Will Hunting, and in the parody of that movie in Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back.in the Daria episode "Through A Lens Darkly"."You Were The Last High" is heard:as one of the 9 Songs of the film of the same name.in Tomb Raider: The Cradle of Life, when Lara calls her helper who is repairing a helicopter."We Used to Be Friends" is heard:in the football game FIFA 2004.as the opening song of the Australian reality television series My Restaurant Rules.in the "Pink Flamigos" episode of Wonderfalls"Shakin" is heardin the 5th episode of the popular British teen drama Skins.as the lead-in music to Fox Sports' coverage of the 2002-2003 NFC Playoffs"Nietzsche" and "Godless" appeared in the 2001 film Antitrust."Solid" and "Mohammed" appeared in the 2001 independent film The Fluffer."Bohemian Like You" and "Boys Better" appeared in the 2002 film Igby Goes Down."Everyday Should be a Holiday" plays in There's Something about Mary, and the song is included in the movie's soundtrack."Cool as Kim Deal" and "Everyday Should Be a Holiday" are used in different episodes in season one of Sex and the City."Sleep" was featured at the end of the second episode of the first season of the show Queer as Folk, as well as at the beginning of the series finale. It was also featured in the film Crazy/Beautiful."Godless" is used by comedian Bill Bailey in the end credits of his show Part Troll."I Am a Scientist" is used by spots for shows on The Science Channel."I Am a Scientist" is used in spots for the Discovery Channel's Mythbusters.ReferencesExternal linksBeat The World Records websiteallmusic.com GuideThe Dandy Warhols interview at musicOMHlast.fm Category:American rock music groups Category:Oregon musical groupsca:The Dandy Warhols de:The Dandy Warhols es:The Dandy Warhols fi:The Dandy Warhols fr:The Dandy Warhols hu:The Dandy Warhols it:The Dandy Warhols ja:ザ・ダンディ・ウォーホルズ nl:The Dandy Warhols no:The Dandy Warhols pl:The Dandy Warhols pt:The Dandy Warhols sv:The Dandy Warhols