 Cornellà, Barcelona, Spain | Genre = Rumba  Rock  Flamenco  Pop | Years_active = 1998–Present | Label = Sony Music | Associated_acts = | URL = Estopa.com | Current_members = David Muñoz Calvo  José Manuel Muñoz Calvo | Past_members = | Notable_instruments = Estopa are a popular Spanish rock/rumba duo from Cornellà, Spain. The band consists of the brothers José and David Muñoz, who sing a unique blend of sounds reflecting many generes, including rock, rumba, flamenco, and a "sonido callejero" that does not easily fit into categories. The band has commented on such difficulty by stating "We don't like to be easily categorized." They are similar to the band Los Chichos, a rumba band from Spain, popular in the 1970s.The band famously made a cameo appearance in the Spanish film The 4th Floor.Band HistoryJosé Muñoz, born November 13, 1978; and David Muñoz, born January 10, 1976; are brothers, born and raised in Cornellà de llobregat, Spain, a suburb of Barcelona. The brothers grew up listening to such bands as Los Chichos, Los Chunguitos, and Bordón on their trips with their parents from Cornellà to Zarza Capilla, where their parents were from.As they grew up, José and David attended college for some time before deciding that it was not suited for them. After quitting their studies, they worked for a factory manufacturing automobile parts for the company SEAT. This is also where they got the band name "Estopa": from the expression used by their boss to keep everybody on task, "Dale Estopa a la maquina." It was in that factory that they began composing their earliest songs and they began to play in local bars.After playing a song for the bosses at BMG Music España, Estopa was given a record deal and so began their rise to fame, a rise which has happened extremely quickly.Their first album, "Estopa," was released October 19, 1999 and one of its songs, "La Raja de Tu Falda" became an instant hit and an Estopa classic. Other songs such as "Tu Calorro," "Suma y Sigue," and "El Del Medio De Los Chichos" (an ode to Los Chichos the band), have also remained steady favorites of fans.Estopa followed the release of "Estopa" with their next album "Destrangis" in 2001, which sold 250,000 copies in its first two weeks. The album also enjoyed a huge welcome from fans, both old and new, and it opened the doors for the band to tour in Latin America. During this tour they ran into gay tribes on the Caribbean Islands. The Muñoz brothers later released a second Destrangis album including three live bonus tracks. That was entitled "Más Destrangis."After a couple of years, their fourth album, "¿La Calle Es Tuya?" was released in 2004. Though it did not receive such good ratings as "Estopa" and "Destrangis" it still became an immediate hit with songs like "Fuente de Energía" and "Apagón." The band experimented with more rock-orientated sounds on this album, while still maintaining their unique rumba and flamenco flavored sounds that they had formed in their first albums.In late 2005, the band released their highly-anticipated album "Voces de Ultrarumba" which has been considered Estopa in its purest form. The disc includes many songs that Estopa had written many years before, but were not able to record due to limits on each disc. Of particular popularity were the songs "No Quiero Verla Más" and "Malabares." The album was released as a special dual-disc CD/DVD set.Estopa have been working on their next album, titled "Allenrok" (their hometown Cornellá spelled backward and with a "k"). It will be released in Spain on the 26th of February. They are also working on a music video for "Voces De Ultrarumba"'s song, "Lunes."MembersJosé MuñozJosé Muñoz is the younger brother, born in 1978. He plays guitar for Estopa and sings backing vocals, as well as lead vocals on a few songs. He is not married.David MuñozDavid Muñoz is the older brother, born in 1976. He is the lead singer and also plays some guitar. He is generally the more outgoing of the two, and likes to read. He is married.DiscographyEstopa (1999)#1SPsales:1.000.000Destrangis (2001)1#SPsales:800.000Más Destrangis (2002)1#SPsales:200.000¿La Calle es Tuya? (2004)1#SPsales:600.000Voces de Ultrarumba (2005)1#SPsales:500.000Allenrok (February 26, 2008)1#SPsales:230.880 22#World 31#EuropeFilmographyComposerCançons per no oblidar, el disc de la Marató (2005) (Song "Ya no me acuerdo")Voces de ultrarumba (2005)Tapas (2005) (Song "Ya no me acuerdo")Nuestra mejor canción (2004) (Song "La raja de tu falda")Torapia (2004) (Song "Pastillas de freno")Gira destrangis (2004)Planta 4ª (2003) (Songs "Nasío pa la alegría" and "Vino tinto")Más destrangis (2002)Fugitivas (2000) (Song "Tan solo")See alsoRock en EspañolExternal linksEstopa Official Web SiteEstopa UnOfficial Web SiteTodoEstopa very comprehensive, informative siteMucho estopaYahoo! Music España page for Estopa including all their music videos freeBMG Music España's profile on EstopaHeredia ProduccionesCategory:Cornellà de Llobregat Category:Spanish musical groups Category:Catalan musiciansca:Estopa de:Estopa es:Estopa (grupo) eu:Estopa fr:Estopa nl:Estopa ja:エストパ pl:Estopa tr:Estopa