Alan Stivell (born Alan Cochevelou January 6, 1944) is a French musician whose father came from the small town of Gourin, Brittany. His music and songs may be difficult to class in French music, as only a light French cultural influence can be detected on his music. The major influence is Celtic (from Brittany and from the other Celtic countries). He spent his childhood in Paris, absorbing the music of the city's many different populations from across France, Algeria, Morocco and elsewhere. He fell in love with Breton music and Celtic culture in general, however, and returned often to Brittany as a teenager. His stage name, Stivell, means "fountain" or "spring" in Breton. This name refers both to the Breton renewal and to his name "Cochevelou", evolution of kozh stivelloù, the old fountains.HistoryIn 1953, Alan Stivell's father, Georges Cochevelou, made a Celtic harp in the ancient Breton style, and Alan began playing the instrument immediately. He also learned the Breton language and traditional Breton dance, as well as the bagpipe and the bombarde, a kind of Breton oboe. He competed in and won several Breton folk festivals.Alan's first recording came in 1959, and was a single that was followed by the LP Telenn Geltiek in 1960. With a new bardic harp with bronze strings, Stivell began experimenting with modernized styles of music, eventually performing with the Moody Blues in London. In 1970, he released his first hits, the single "Broceliande" and Reflets, both on the Philips record label. He became closely associated with the burgeoning Breton roots revival, especially after the release of the purely instrumental 1971 album Renaissance de la Harpe Celtique. Alan Stivell's newfound fame gave him reason to travel on tours across France, Canada, the United Kingdom and the United States. He continued recording, and published a collection of Breton poetry in 1976. With his 1980, Symphonie Celtique, he mixed for the first time elements of rock, a symphonic orchestra, celtic instruments and non-European ethnics elements as Berber vocalist Djourha and sitarist Narendra Bataju.The folk revival faded somewhat in the 1980s, and though Alan Stivell was still very popular, he did not reach the heights he had in the 70s. He continued touring in many parts of the world, and recording for a loyal fanbase, and also worked with the English singer Kate Bush. In the 1990s, he recorded with Bush, as well as French singer Laurent Voulzy, Irish traditional performer Shane MacGowan and Senegalese singer Doudou N'Diaye Rose. The album was Again, and it became very popular in France, the beginning of a Celtic new wave. His records in the late 1990s contained more pronounced rock elements, and he performed at a rock festival called Transmusicales in Rennes. He continued working with a variety of musicians, inviting Paddy Moloney (of The Chieftains), Jim Kerr (of Simple Minds), Khaled and Youssou N'Dour to be in his very international " 1 Douar / 1 Earth " album .Alan has a very eclectic style. He reached the height of his popularity in the early and mid 70's when he played Celtic folk rock, and was an influence in the electric folk movement. Since the early 80's, he has largely departed from this, playing music that was increasingly experimental and blended styles from many cultures and genres, including R&B and rock. This alienated his more traditionalist fan base, but also drew a new audience.Alan Stivell's released Au-delà des mots-Beyond Words, his twenty first LP, in 2002, and album that featured him playing six different harps.In 2004, a DVD, Parcours has been published by Fox-Pathé. The same year, he has also written a book with Jean-Noël Verdier, Telenn, la harpe bretonne , published by Le Télégramme.In 2006, a new CD called "Explore" came out in France and other countries, distributed through Harmonia Mundi. This album demonstrates that Stivell is still a leading artist, exploring fusions of Celtic music with electro-rock, raga, hip-hop, etc with a unique and personal vocal style and a very interesting and original mix of Breton, English and French lyrics.DiscographyTelenn Geltiek / Harpe celtique (1964)Reflets/Reflections (1970-1)Renaissance de la Harpe Celtique (1972)A l'Olympia - Live (1972)Chemins de terre/From Celtic Roots (1973)E Langonned / A Langonnet (1974)Grand Succès d'Alan Stivell (c 1975)E Dulenn /Live In Dublin / Dublin (1975)Celtic Rock (1976)Trema'n inis/Vers l'ile (1976)Roak Dilestra/Avant d'accoster/Before Landing (1977)Un Dewezh barzh gêr/Journée a la maison / A Homecoming (1978)International Tour / Tro ar Bed (1979)Symphonie Celtique ( Tir na-nOg) / Celtic Symphony (1979)Terre des vivants / Tir an dud bew (1981)Alan Stivell (1982)Légende / Legend / Mojenn (1983)Harpes du Nouvel Âge / Telenn a' Skuih-dour (1985)The Mist Of Avalon (1991)Again (1993)Brian Boru (1995)70/95 Zoom (1997)1 Douar/1 Earth (1998)Back To Breizh (1999)Au-delà des mots/Beyond Words (2002)Explore (2006)External linksAlan Stivell (English, Breton and French language)Alan Stivell's blogAlbum track listingsHarpographie (French language and Breton language) Category:Breton musicians Category:1944 births Category:Living people Category:World music Category:Celtic fusion musicians Category:People from Morbihanast:Alan Stivell br:Alan Stivell cy:Alan Stivell de:Alan Stivell es:Alan Stivell eu:Alan Stivell fr:Alan Stivell it:Alan Stivell li:Alan Stivell nl:Alan Stivell pl:Alan Stivell