.]] Chaïm Soutine (1893 – August 9, 1943) was a Jewish expressionist painter from Belarus. He has been interpreted as both a forerunner of Abstract Expressionism and as a proponent of painting in the European tradition exemplified by the works of Rembrandt or ChardinKleeblatt et al, 13.BiographySoutine was born in Smilavichy near Minsk, Belarus (then part of the Russian Empire). He was the tenth of eleven children.From 1910–1913 he studied in Vilnius at the Vilna Academy of Fine Arts. In 1913, with his friends Pinchus Kremegne and Michel Kikoine, he emigrated to Paris, where he studied at the Ecole des Beaux-Arts under Fernand Cormon. He soon developed a highly personal vision and painting technique.For a time, he and his friends lived at La Ruche, a residence for struggling artists in Montparnasse, where he became friends with Amedeo Modigliani. Modigliani painted Soutine's portrait several times, most famously in 1917, on a door of an apartment belonging to Léopold Zborowski, who was their art dealer Kleeblatt et al, 101. Zoborowski supported Soutine through the World War I, taking the struggling artist with him to Nice to escape the German bombing of Paris.In 1923, the American collector Albert C. Barnes visited his studio and immediately bought sixty of Soutine's paintings.Soutine once horrified his neighbours by keeping an animal carcass in his studio so that he could paint it (Carcass of Beef). The stench drove them to send for the police, whom Soutine promptly lectured on the relative importance of art over hygiene. In February 2006 this painting sold for £7.8 million to an anonymous buyer in London.Soutine produced the majority of his works from 1920 to 1929. He seldom showed his works, but he did take part in the exhibition of Independent Art held in 1937 in Paris, where he was at last hailed as a great painter. Soon thereafter France was invaded by German troops. As a Jew, Soutine had to escape from the French capital and hide in order to avoid arrest by the Gestapo. He moved from one place to another and was sometimes forced to seek shelter in forests, sleeping outdoors. Suffering from a stomach ulcer and bleeding badly, he left a safe hiding place for Paris in order to undergo emergency surgery, which failed to save his life. On August 9, 1943, Chaim Soutine died of a perforated ulcer. Soutine was interred in Cimetière du Montparnasse, Paris.Technique  A few of his paintings:Ceret Landscape - (c.1919)Pastry Cook - (1922), Louvre, ParisStreet of Cagnes-sur-Mer - (c.1923-1924)Carcass of Beef - (c.1925), Albright-Knox Art Gallery, Buffalo, New YorkSinister Street - (c.1921), Kunstmuseum, Lucerne, SwitzerlandWinding Road - (c.1939)Large Poplars at Civery or After the Storm - (c.1939)External linksHecht MuseumAmedeo Modigliani, &quot;Chaim Soutine&quot; (1917)Marevna, &quot;Chaim Soutine&quot; (c. 1916/7), Erich Lessing Collection ("Quick Search" there for Marevna).FootnotesReferences Category:1893 births Category:1943 deaths Category:Belarusian Jews Category:Belarusian painters Category:Deaths from ulcers Category:Expressionism Category:French painters Category:Jewish painters Category:Modern paintersbe:Хаім Суцін be-x-old:Хаім Суцін de:Chaim Soutine es:Chaïm Soutine fr:Chaïm Soutine it:Chaim Soutine he:חיים סוטין nl:Chaïm Soutine ja:シャイム・スーティン pl:Chaim Soutine ru:Сутин, Хаим Соломонович sr:Хаим Сутин sv:Chaim Soutine tr:Chaim Soutine yi:חיים סוטין