 The Roman Senate was a political institution in Ancient Rome. It was one of the most enduring institutions in Roman history, being founded before the first king of Rome ascended the throne (traditionally dated to 753 BC). It survived the fall of the Roman Kingdom in 510 BC, the fall of the Roman Republic in 27 BC, and the fall of the Roman Empire in 476 AD. During the days of the kingdom, it was little more than an advisory council to the king. The last king of Rome, the tyrant Lucius Tarquinius Superbus, was overthrown following a coup d’état led by Brutus, a coup that had been orchestrated in the senate.Abbott, 25During the early republic, the senate was politically weak, while the executive magistrates were quite powerful. Since the transition from monarchy to constitutional rule was probably quite gradual, it took several generations before the senate was able to assert itself over the executive magistrates. By the middle republic, the senate reached the apex of its republican power. The late republic saw a decline in the senate's power, which began following the reforms of the tribunes Tiberius and Gaius Gracchus.After the transition from republic to empire had been completed, the senate arguably held more power than it had held at any previous point. However, unlike the senate of the republic, the senate of the empire was not politically independent. With the loss of its independence to the emperor, it lost its prestige, and eventually much of its power. Following the constitutional reforms of the emperor Diocletian, the senate became politically irrelevant, and never regained the power that it had once held. When the seat of government was transferred out of Rome, the senate was reduced to a municipal body. This image was reinforced when the emperor Constantine created a similar body (the Byzantine Senate) in Constantinople. After the Western Roman Empire fell in 476, the senate functioned primarily under barbarian rule until it was ultimately abandoned.Senate of the Roman Kingdom The Senate of the Roman Kingdom was a political institution in the ancient Roman Kingdom. The word senate derives from the Latin word senex, which means "old man", and so senate literally means "board of old men." The prehistoric Indo-Europeans who settled Italy in the centuries before the legendary founding of Rome in 753 BCAbbott, 3 were structured into tribal communities,Abbott, 1 and these communities often included an aristocratic board of tribal elders.Abbott, 12 The early Roman family was called a gens or "clan",Abbott, 1. and each clan was an aggregation of families under a common living male patriarch, called a pater (the Latin word for "father").Abbott, 6 When the early Roman gens were aggregating to form a common community, the patres from the leading clans were selectedAbbott, 16 for the confederated board of elders (what would become the Roman senate)Abbott, 6. Over time, the patres came to recognize the need for a single leader, and so they elected a king (rex),Abbott, 6 and vested in him their sovereign power.Byrd, 42 When the king died, that sovereign power naturally reverted back to the patres.Abbott, 6The senate of the Roman Kingdom held three principle responsibilities: It functioned as the ultimate repository for the executive powerAbbott, 10, it served as the council to the king, and it functioned as a legislative body in concert with the People of Rome.Abbott, 17 During the years of the monarchy, the senate's most important function was to elect new kings. While the king was technically elected by the people, it was actually the senate who chose each new king. The period between the death of one king, and the election of a new king, was called the interregnum,Abbott, 10 during which time the Interrex nominated a candidate to replace the king.Abbott, 14 After the senate gave its initial approval to the nominee, he was then formally elected by the people,Byrd, 20 and then received the senate's final approvalAbbott, 14. The senate's most significant task, outside of regal elections, was in its capacity as the king's council, and while the king could ignore any advice offered to him by the senate, the senate's growing prestige helped make the advice that it offered increasingly difficult to ignore. Technically the senate could also make new laws, although it would be incorrect to view the senate's decrees as "legislation" in the modern sense. Only the king could decree new laws, although he often involved both the senate and the Curiate Assembly (the popular assembly) in the process.Abbott, 17Senate of the Roman Republic  attacks Catilina, from a 19th century fresco in Palazzo Madama, Rome, house of the italian Senate]] The Senate of the Roman Republic was a political institution in the ancient Roman Republic. The senate directed the magistrates, especially the Roman Consuls (the chief-magistrates) in their prosecution of military conflicts. The senate also had an enormous degree of power over the civil government in Rome. This was especially the case with regards to its management of state finances, as only it could authorize the disbursal of public monies from the treasury. In addition, the senate passed decrees called senatus consultum, which was officially "advice" from the senate to a magistrate. While technically these decrees did not have to be obeyed, in practice, they usually were.Byrd, 44 If a senatus consultum conflicted with a law (lex) that was passed by a Roman Assembly, the law overrode the senatus consultum, because the senatus consultum had its authority based in precedent, and not in law. A senatus consultum, however, could serve to interpret a law.Abbott, 233 During an emergency, the senate could authorize the appointment of a Roman Dictator. The last ordinary Dictator, however, was appointed in 202 BC. After 202 BC, the senate responded to emergencies by passing the senatus consultum ultimum ("ultimate decree of the senate"), which suspended civil government declared something analogous to martial law.Abbott, 240 Election to magisterial office resulted in automatic senate membership. While senate meetings could take place either inside or outside of the formal boundary of the city (the pomerium), no meeting could take place more than a mile outside of the pomerium.Byrd, 34 The senate operated while under various religious restrictions. For example, before any meeting could begin, a sacrifice to the Gods was made, and a search for divine omens (the auspices) was taken.Lintott, 72 The ethical requirements of senators were significant. Senators could not engage in banking or any form of public contract. They could not own a ship that was large enough to participate in foreign commerce,Byrd, 34 and they could not leave Italy without permission from the senate. And since they were not paid,Byrd, 36 individuals usually sought to become a senator only if they were independently wealthy.Meetings usually began at dawn, and a magistrate who wished to summon the senate had to issue a compulsorily order.Lintott, 75 The senate meetings were technically public,Byrd, 34 and were directed by a presiding magistrate, usually a Consul (the highest-ranking Roman Magistrate).Byrd, 42 While in session, the senate had the power to act on its own, and even against the will of the presiding magistrate if it wished. The presiding magistrate began each meeting with a speech,Lintott, 78 and then referred an issue to the senators, who would discuss the issue by order of seniority.Byrd, 34 Senators had several other ways in which they could influence (or frustrate) a presiding magistrate. For example, all senators had to speak before a vote could be held, and since all meetings had to end by nightfall,Byrd, 44 a senator could talk a proposal to death (a filibuster or diem consumere) if they could keep the debate going until nightfall.Lintott, 78 When it was time to call a vote, the presiding magistrate could bring up whatever proposals he wished, and every vote was between a proposal and its negative.Lintott, 83 At any point before a motion passed, the proposed motion could be vetoed, usually by a Plebeian Tribune. If there was no veto, and the matter was of minor importance, it could be voted on by a voice vote or by a show of hands. If there was no veto, and the matter was of a significant nature, there was usually a physical division of the house,Byrd, 34 with senators voting by taking a place on either side of the chamber.Senate of the Roman Empire The Senate of the Roman Empire was a political institution in the ancient Roman Empire. After the fall of the Roman Republic, the constitutional balance of power shifted from the Roman Senate to the Roman Emperor. Beginning with the first emperor, Augustus, the emperor and the senate were technically two co-equal branches of government. In practice, however the actual authority of the imperial senate was negligible, as the emperor held the true power of the state. As such, membership in the senate became sought after by individuals seeking prestige and social standing, rather than actual authority. During the reigns of the first emperors, legislative, judicial, and electoral powers were all transferred from the Roman assemblies to the senate. However, since the control that the emperor held over the senate was absolute, the senate acted as a vehicle through which the emperor exercised his autocratic powers.  in the Roman Forum, the seat of the imperial Senate.]]The first emperor, Augustus, reduced the size of the senate from 900 members to 600 members, and after this point, the size of the senate was never again drastically altered. Under the empire, as was the case during the late republic, one could become a senator by being elected Quaestor (a magistrate with financial duties), but only if one was of senatorial rank. If an individual was not of senatorial rank, there were two ways for that individual to become a senator. Under the first method, the emperor granted that individual the authority to stand for election to the Quaestorship,Abbott, 381 while under the second method, the emperor appointed that individual to the senate by issuing a decree.Abbott, 382 Under the empire, the power that the emperor held over the senate was absolute.Abbott, 385 During senate meetings, the emperor sat between the two Consuls,Abbott, 383 and usually acted as the presiding officer. Senators of the early empire could ask extraneous questions or request that a certain action be taken by the senate. Higher ranking senators spoke before lower ranking senators, although the emperor could speak at any time.Abbott, 383 Besides the emperor, Consuls and Praetors could also preside over the senate. Since no senator could stand for election to a magisterial office without the emperor's approval, senators usually did not vote against bills that had been presented by the emperor. If a senator disapproved of a bill, he usually showed his disapproval by not attending the senate meeting on the day that the bill was to be voted on.Abbott, 384While the Roman assemblies continued to meet after the founding of the empire, their powers were all transferred to the senate, and so senatorial decrees (senatus consulta) acquired the full force of law.Abbott, 385 The legislative powers of the imperial senate were principally of a financial and an administrative nature, although the senate did retain a range of powers over the provinces.Abbott, 385 During the early empire, all judicial powers that had been held by the Roman assemblies were also transferred to the senate. For example, the senate now held jurisdiction over criminal trials. In these cases, a Consul presided, the senators constituted the jury, and the verdict was handed down in the form of a decree (senatus consultum),Abbott, 385Abbott, 386 and, while a verdict could not be appealed, the emperor could pardon a convicted individual through a veto. The emperor Tiberius transferred all electoral powers from the assemblies to the senate,Abbott, 386 and, while theoretically the senate elected new magistrates, the approval of the emperor was always needed before an election could be finalized.Around 300 AD, the emperor Diocletian enacted a series of constitutional reforms. In one such reform, Diocletian asserted the right of the emperor to take power without the theoretical consent of the senate, thus depriving the senate of its status as the ultimate depository of supreme power. Diocletian's reforms also ended whatever illusion had remained that the senate had independent legislative, judicial, or electoral powers. The senate did, however, retain its legislative powers over public games in Rome, and over the senatorial order. The senate also retained the power to try treason cases, and to elect some magistrates, but only with the permission of the emperor. In the final years of the empire, the senate would sometimes try to appoint their own emperor, such as in case of Eugenius who was later defeated by forces loyal to Theodosius I.The senate remained the last stronghold of the traditional Roman religion in the face of the spreading Christianity, and several times attempted to facilitate the return of the Altar of Victory (first removed by Constantius II) to the senatorial curia. After the fall of the Western Roman Empire, the senate continued to function under the barbarian chieftain Odoacer, and then under Ostrogothic rule. The authority of the senate rose considerably under barbarian leaders who sought to protect the senate. This period was characterized by the rise of prominent Roman senatorial families such as the Anicii, while the senate's leader, the princeps senatus, often served as the right hand of the barbarian leader. This peaceful co-existence of senatorial and barbarian rule continued until the Ostrogothic leader Theodahad began an upspring against emperor Justinian. After Rome was recaptured by the imperial (Byzantine) army, the senate was restored, although it did not recover any of its former powers. It is not clearly known when the Roman senate disappeared, but it is known from Gregorian register that the senate acclaimed new statues of emperor Phocas and empress Leontia in 603.Jeffrey Richards. The Popes and the Papacy in the Early Middle Ages, 476-752See alsoNotesFurther readingIhne, Wilhelm. Researches Into the History of the Roman Constitution. William Pickering. 1853.Johnston, Harold Whetstone. Orations and Letters of Cicero: With Historical Introduction, An Outline of the Roman Constitution, Notes, Vocabulary and Index. Scott, Foresman and Company. 1891.Mommsen, Theodor. Roman Constitutional Law. 1871-1888Tighe, Ambrose. The Development of the Roman Constitution. D. Apple & Co. 1886.Von Fritz, Kurt. The Theory of the Mixed Constitution in Antiquity. Columbia University Press, New York. 1975.The Histories by PolybiusCambridge Ancient History, Volumes 9–13.A. Cameron, The Later Roman Empire, (Fontana Press, 1993).M. Crawford, The Roman Republic, (Fontana Press, 1978).E. S. Gruen, "The Last Generation of the Roman Republic" (U California Press, 1974)F. Millar, The Emperor in the Roman World, (Duckworth, 1977, 1992).A. Lintott, "The Constitution of the Roman Republic" (Oxford University Press, 1999)Primary sourcesCicero's De Re Publica, Book TwoRome at the End of the Punic Wars: An Analysis of the Roman Government; by PolybiusLivy, Roman History (Ab Urbe Condita)Lintott, Andrew (1999). The Constitution of the Roman Republic. Oxford University Press (ISBN 0-19-926108-3).Cicero, Marcus Tullius (1841). The Political Works of Marcus Tullius Cicero: Comprising his Treatise on the Commonwealth; and his Treatise on the Laws. Translated from the original, with Dissertations and Notes in Two Volumes. By Francis Barham, Esq. London: Edmund Spettigue. Vol. 1.Polybius (1823). The General History of Polybius: Translated from the Greek. By Mr. Hampton. Oxford: Printed by W. Baxter. Fifth Edition, Vol 2.Taylor, Lily Ross (1966). Roman Voting Assemblies: From the Hannibalic War to the Dictatorship of Caesar. The University of Michigan Press (ISBN 0-472-08125-X).Secondary source materialConsiderations on the Causes of the Greatness of the Romans and their Decline, by MontesquieuThe Roman Constitution to the Time of CiceroWhat a Terrorist Incident in Ancient Rome Can Teach UsWebster's Revised Unabridged Dictionary (1913)Brewer, E. Cobham; Dictionary of Phrase and Fable (1898).McCullough, Colleen; The Grass Crown HarperCollins (1992), ISBN 038071082XWood, Reverend James, The Nuttall Encyclopædia (1907) - a work now in public domain.Byrd, Robert (1995). The Senate of the Roman Republic. U.S. Government Printing Office, Senate Document 103-23.Abbott, Frank Frost (1901). A History and Description of Roman Political Institutions. Elibron Classics, ISBN 0-543-92749-0.Hooke, Nathaniel; The Roman History, from the Building of Rome to the Ruin of the Commonwealth, F. Rivington (Rome). Original in New York Public LibraryCategory:Roman Kingdom Category:Roman Republic Category:Roman Empire Category:Roman law Category:Historical legislatures ar:مجلس الشيوخ الروماني bs:Rimski senat ca:Senat romà cs:Římský senát cy:Senedd Rhufain da:Det romerske Senat de:Römischer Senat el:Σύγκλητος es:Senado romano eu:Erromako Senatua fr:Sénat romain gl:Senado romano ko:원로원 hr:Rimski Senat ia:Senato roman is:Rómverska öldungaráðið it:Senato romano he:הסנאט הרומי ka:რომის სენატი la:Senatus Romanus lt:Romos senatas hu:Senatus nl:Senaat (Rome) ja:元老院 (ローマ) no:Det romerske senatet pl:Senat rzymski pt:Senado romano ro:Senatul roman ru:Сенат (Древний Рим) sr:Римски сенат sh:Rimski senat fi:Rooman senaatti sv:Romerska senaten tr:Roma Senatosu zh:羅馬元老院