  |birthplace = Winchester, Virginia, United States |birthname = David James Arquette |spouse = Courteney Cox (June 12, 1999 - present) David James Arquette (born September 8 1971) is an American actor, film director, producer and screenwriter. He became known during the late 1990s, after having starred in several Hollywood films, including the films of the ''Scream'' trilogy. He has since had several television roles, including playing Jason Ventress on ABC's In Case of Emergency. In addition to his acting career Arquette took a brief foray into professional wrestling in early 2000, competing for World Championship Wrestling and winning the promotion's World Heavyweight Championship in the process. He is a member of the Arquette family of actors.BiographyEarly lifeDavid Arquette was born in a Subud commune in Bentonville, Virginia, the son of Mardi Olivia (née Nowak), an actress, poet, theater operator, activist, acting teacher and therapist, and Lewis Arquette, an actor.Patricia Arquette Biography (1968-)&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;David Arquette Biography (1971-)&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; Arquette's paternal grandfather was comedian Cliff Arquette. David Arquette's mother was Jewish, the daughter of a Holocaust refugee from Poland, and his father was a convert to Islam and a descendant of explorer Meriwether Lewis.Patricia Arquette - Cranky Critic StarTalk - Movie Star Interviews&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;USA WEEKEND Magazine&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Patricia Arquette: The not-so-dippy hippie - Features, Film &amp; TV - Independent.co.uk&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; and is thus of partial Welsh descent. Arquette's siblings are actors Rosanna, Alexis, Richmond and Patricia Arquette.Hollywood careerArquette achieved his biggest success in the slasher horror trilogy Scream as Dewey Riley. He also met his wife Courteney Cox, who played Gale Weathers, on the set. True to their alter-egos in the trilogy, they became a married couple. They also appeared together in a Coke advertisement on TV in 2003. The two are currently executive producers of the TBS series Daisy Does America and executive producers of Dirt, a show in which Cox herself stars.Arquette appeared in the videogame ESPN NFL 2K5 and lent his voice as a celebrity adversary and his very own team, the Los Angeles Locos. Arquette is also unlockable as a Free Agent in Season Mode. He appeared in the 2001 EA video game SSX Tricky, as the voice of lead character Eddie.Arquette also starred alongside Jonathan Silverman and Kelly Hu in the ABC comedy series In Case of Emergency. He went on tour promoting his new film The Tripper.Arquette stars as "Gary" in Hamlet 2.Personal lifeArquette married actress Courteney Cox on June 12 1999. Their first child, a daughter named Coco Riley Arquette, was born on June 13 2004. Jennifer Aniston, (Courteney's Friends co-star) is the baby's godmother. He is the brother-in-law of actor Thomas Jane.Wrestling |retired=May 8, 2000 |In 2000, after filming the World Championship Wrestling (WCW) produced movie Ready to Rumble, Arquette was brought into WCW storylines. He made his first appearance on the April 12 episode of Thunder, first sitting in the crowd then leaping into the ring to take part in a worked confrontation with Eric Bischoff and his New Blood stable. Afterwards he was placed into an alliance with Chris Kanyon and the reigning World Heavyweight Champion Diamond Dallas Page, and with their help defeated Bischoff in a singles match in the April 24 episode of WCW Monday Nitro. On the following Thunder (April 26), Arquette teamed with Page in a match against Bischoff and Jeff Jarrett with the stipulation that whichever man got the pin would take the championship. Arquette pinned Bischoff again in the matches finish, receiving the WCW World Heavyweight Championship in the process.During his time as champion, Arquette was mostly used as comic relief. He only appeared on two shows as champion, the May 1 Nitro and May 7 Slamboree pay-per-view. During that former a vignette was shown, filmed on the set of Arquette's film 3000 Miles to Graceland, that also featured his wife, Courtney Cox-Arquette, and their co-star, Kurt Russell. In the vignette, Courtney informs Russell that Arquette is the WCW Champion, causing Russell to laugh and walk off and Arquette to chase after him with a steel chair. In another portion of the show he's seen backstage wetting himself in fear and attempting to "give back" the belt. He did, however, successfully defend the belt against Tank Abbott with help from Diamond Dallas Page.He held the championship until the May 7 Slamboree pay-per-view. During the show he was booked to defend the championship again Jarrett and Page in a Triple Cage--the same match featured in the climax of Ready to Rumble--and ended up turning on Page in the end, giving the victory to Jarrett. He made one final WCW appearance after Slamboree, cutting a promo on the May 8 Nitro explaining that his entire friendship with Page and title run was a "swerve," prompting Page to run to the ring and deliver a Diamond Cutter to him.In 2002, Arquette made one more appearance on a professional wrestling show, popping up in the crowd of the February 8 2002 episode of the World Wrestling Federation's SmackDown! holding up a sign reading "Former World Champ."After World Wrestling Entertainment purchased WCW, Arquette's championship run was listed as the top reason for the "failure" of Nitro in a WWE Magazine list.In wrestlingFinishing and signature movesSpearWorm (Chop drop with worm breakdancing moves)Diamond Cutter (Three-quarter facelock bulldog)Theme music"We're Not Gonna Take It" - Bif NakedChampionships and accomplishments'Championships 'WCW World Heavyweight Championship (1 time)FilmographyReferencesExternal linksDavid Arquette interviewThe Mighty Vin interviews David Arquette Category:American film actors Category:American Jews Category:World Champion professional wrestlers Category:Welsh Americans Category:American television actors Category:Fairfax High School (Los Angeles) alumni Category:Jewish actors Category:People from Winchester, Virginia Category:Virginia actors Category:WrestleCrapbg:Дейвид Аркет da:David Arquette de:David Arquette et:David Arquette es:David Arquette fr:David Arquette it:David Arquette nl:David Arquette ja:デヴィッド・アークエット no:David Arquette pl:David Arquette pt:David Arquette ru:Аркетт, Дэвид sr:Дејвид Аркет fi:David Arquette sv:David Arquette