 Kutná Hora (pronounced ; medieval Czech: Hory Kutné; ) is a city in the Czech Republic in the Central Bohemian Region. From the 13th to 16th centuries the city competed with Prague economically, culturally and politically. Since 1995 the city center has been a UNESCO World Heritage Site.HistoryThe town of Kutná Hora owes its origin to the silver mines which gained importance during the economic boom of the 13th century. The earliest traces of silver have been found dating back to the 10th century. Silver dinars have been discovered belonging to the period between 985-995 in the settlement of Malín, which is now a part of Kutná Hora.The turning point in the history of the city was in 1300 when King Wenceslaus II of Bohemia issued the new royal mining code Ius regale montanorum. This was a legal document of that specified all administrative as well as technical terms and conditions necessary for the operation of mines. The city developed with great rapidity, and at the outbreak of the Hussite Wars in 1419 was next to Prague the most important in Bohemia, having become the favourite residence of several Bohemian kings. It was here that, on January 18, 1409, Wenceslaus IV signed the famous Decree of Kutná Hora, by which the Czech university nation was given three votes in the elections to the faculty of Prague University as against one for the three other nations.In 1420 Emperor Sigismund made the city the base for his unsuccessful attack on the Taborites during the Hussite Wars; Kutná Hora was taken by Jan Žižka, and after a temporary reconciliation of the warring parties was burned by the imperial troops in 1422, to prevent its falling again into the hands of the Taborites. Žižka nonetheless took the place, and under Bohemian auspices it awoke to a new period of prosperity.Along with the rest of Bohemia, Kutná Hora passed to the Habsburg Monarchy of Austria in 1526. In 1541 the richest mine was hopelessly flooded; in the insurrection of Bohemia against Ferdinand I the city lost all its privileges; repeated visitations of the plague and the horrors of the Thirty Years' War completed its ruin. Half-hearted attempts after the peace to repair the ruined mines failed; the town became impoverished, and in 1770 was devastated by fire. The mines were abandoned at the end of the 18th century.Kutná Hora became part of the Austrian Empire in 1806 and the Austro-Hungarian Empire in 1866. The city became part of Czechoslovakia after World War I and the collapse of Austria-Hungary. Kutná Hora was incorporated into the Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia by Nazi Germany from 1939-1945, but was restored to Czechoslovakia after World War II. The city became part of the Czech Republic in 1993 during the dissolution of Czechoslovakia.- Kutná Hora]]ArchitectureKutná Hora and the neighboring town of Sedlec are an UNESCO World Heritage Site. Among the most important buildings in the area are the Gothic, five-naved St. Barbara Church, begun in 1368, and the Italian Court, formerly a royal residence and mint, which was built at the end of the 13th century. The Gothic Stone Haus, which since 1902 has served as a museum, contains one of the richest archives in the country. The Gothic St. James Church, with its 83 metre tower, is another prominent building. Sedlec is the site of the Gothic Cathedral of Our Lady and the famous Ossuary.Main sightsCathedral of Our Lady (cs:Chrám Nanebevzetí Pany Marie)St. Barbara Church (cs:Kostel Sv. Barbory)Sedlec Ossuary (Kostnice Sedlec)Church of St. James (Kostel sv. Jakuba)Church of St. John Nepomuk (Kostel sv. Jana Nepomuckého)Church of Ursuline Convent (Kostel Kláštera Voršilek)Jesuit College (cs:Jezuitská kolej)Italian Court (Vlašský dvůr)Marian column (Morový sloup)Sister citiesmade out of bones inside Sedlec Ossuary]] Eger, Hungary Fidenza, Italy Kremnica, Slovakia Ringsted, Denmark Stamford, United Kingdom Tarnowskie Góry, PolandSee alsoDeer Park Žehušice - natural reserve with white deer, located 15 km to the eastReferencesExternal linksMunicipal websiteRegional website Category:World Heritage Sites in the Czech Republic Category:Cities and towns in the Czech Republic Category:Kutná Hora Districtbg:Кутна Хора cs:Kutná Hora de:Kutná Hora es:Kutná Hora eo:Kutná Hora fr:Kutná Hora ko:쿠트나 호라 it:Kutná Hora hu:Kutná Hora nl:Kutná Hora ja:クトナー・ホラ no:Kutná Hora pl:Kutná Hora ro:Kutná Hora ru:Кутна-Гора sk:Kutná Hora fi:Kutná Hora sv:Kutná Hora tr:Kutná Hora zh:库特纳霍拉