 The melanocyte-stimulating hormones (collectively referred to as MSH) are a class of peptide hormones produced by cells in the intermediate lobe of the pituitary gland.FunctionThey stimulate the production and release of melanin (melanogenesis) by melanocytes in skin and hair. MSH is produced in the anterior pituitary. MSH released into the brain has effects on appetite and sexual arousal.In amphibiansIn some animals (such as the claw-toed frog Xenopus laevis) production of MSH is increased when the animal is in a dark location. This causes pigment to be dispersed in pigment cells in the toad's skin, making it become darker, and harder for predators to spot. The pigment cells are called melanophores and therefore, in amphibians, the hormone is often called melanophore-stimulating hormone.In humansAn increase in MSH will cause a darkening in humans too. Melanocyte-stimulating hormone increases in humans during pregnancy. This, along with increased estrogens, causes increased pigmentation in pregnant women. In Addison's disease high levels of adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) production also leads to high MSH levels, which cause an abnormal darkening.Different levels of MSH are not the major cause of racial variation in skin colour. In many red headed people, and other people who do not tan well, there are variations in their hormone receptors, causing them to not respond to MSH in the blood.See: Melanocortin receptor.Structure of MSHMelanocyte-stimulating hormone belongs to a group called the melanocortins. This group includes ACTH, alpha-MSH, beta-MSH and gamma-MSH; these peptides are all cleavage products of a large precursor peptide called pro-opiomelanocortin(POMC). Alpha-MSH is the most important melanocortin for pigmentation.The different melanocyte-stimulating hormones have the following amino acid sequences:alpha-MSH:Ac-Ser-Tyr-Ser-Met-Glu-His-Phe-Arg-Trp-Gly-Lys-Pro-Valbeta-MSH (human):Ala-Glu-Lys-Lys-Asp-Glu-Gly-Pro-Tyr-Arg-Met-Glu-His-Phe-Arg-Trp-Gly-Ser-Pro-Pro-Lys-Aspbeta-MSH (porcine):Asp-Glu-Gly-Pro-Tyr-Lys-Met-Glu-His-Phe-Arg-Trp-Gly-Ser-Pro-Pro-Lys-Aspgamma-MSH:Tyr-Val-Met-Gly-His-Phe-Arg-Trp-Asp-Arg-Phe-GlySynthetic MSHTwo synthetic analogs of alpha-MSH have been developed for human use. The first called Melanotan (afamelanotide, formerly CUV1647), by Clinuvel Pharmaceuticals in Australia and the second called Bremelanotide by Palatin Technologies, a New Jersey company.Alpha-MSH topical cream is being investigated as a possible therapeutic aid in the treatment of melanoma. Melanotan one (afamelanotide, formerly CUV1647) is being investigated as a method of photoprotection in patients with erythropoietic protoporphyria, polymorphous light eruption, actinic keratosis and squamous cell carcinoma (a form of skin cancer).Clinuvel FAQsAn additional analog called Melanotan II causes enhanced libido and erections in most male test subject and arousal with corresponding genital involvement in most female test subjects. Bremelanotide (formerly PT-141) which is based upon Melanotan II was previously under development by the New Jersey company for its aphrodisiac effects. These effects are mediated by actions in the hypothalamus on neurons that express MC3  and MC4  receptors.ReferencesFurther readingExternal linksClinuvel PharmaceuticalsPalatin Technologies Category:Peptide hormones Category:Anterior pituitary hormonesde:Melanozyten-stimulierendes Hormon dv:މިލަނޯސައިޓް ސްޓިމިއުލޭޓިންގ ހޯރމޯން es:Melanotropina fr:Hormone mélanotrope he:MSH mk:Меланотропин nl:Melanocyt-stimulerend hormoon pl:Melanotropina ru:Меланоцитстимулирующие гормоны sk:Melanotropín