 |antenna_spire =  |top_floor =  |floor_count = 14 |elevator_count = 6 |architect = Shanghai Modern Architectural Design Co. Ltd. |developer = Shanghai Oriental Group Co. Ltd. |skyscraperpage_id = 25 |emporis_id = 103802 | The Oriental Pearl Tower (, Official Name: 东方明珠电视塔) is a TV tower in Shanghai, China. The Oriental Pearl Tower is located at the tip of Lujiazui in the Pudong district, by the side of Huangpu River, opposite The Bund of Shanghai.It was designed by Jia Huan Cheng of the Shanghai Modern Architectural Design Co. Ltd. Construction began in 1991 and the tower was completed in 1995. At 468 m (1,535 feet) high, it is the tallest completed tower in Asia, and the third tallest tower in the world after the CN Tower and the Ostankino Tower. The Oriental Pearl Tower belongs to the World Federation of Great Towers.The tower has approximate coordinates 31°14'30 N'' and 121°29'42 ''E.On 7 July 2007, Oriental Pearl Tower was host to the Chinese Live Earth concert.Structural dataThe Spheres in the towerThe tower features 11 spheres, big and small. The two biggest spheres, along the length of the tower, have diameters of 50 m (164 ft) for the lower and 45 m (148 ft) for the upper. They are linked by three columns, each 9 m (30 ft) in diameter. The highest sphere is 14 m (46 ft) in diameter.The entire building is supported by three enormous columns that start underground.Observation levelsThe tower has fifteen observatory levels. The highest (known as the Space Module) is at 350 m (1148 ft). The lower levels are at 263 m (863 ft) (Sightseeing Floor) and at 90 m (295 ft) (Space City). There is a revolving restaurant at the 267 m (876 ft) level. The project also contains exhibition facilities, restaurants and a shopping mall. There is also a 20 room hotel called the Space Hotel between the two large spheres.Antenna spireAn antenna broadcasting TV and radio programs extends the construction by another 118 m (387 ft).Chinese symbolism in the designThe design of the building is based on a verse of the Tang Dynasty poem Pipa Song by Bai Juyi about the wonderful sprinkling sound of a pipa instrument, like pearls, big and small falling on a jade plate (大珠小珠落玉盘/大珠小珠落玉盤/dà zhū xiǎo zhū luò yù pán).Seen from afar, the Yangpu Bridge (杨浦大桥 Yángpǔ dàqiáo) and the Nanpu bridge (南浦大桥 Nánpǔ dàqiáo) seem like two Chinese dragons frolicking with the pearls of the Oriental Pearl tower.Tourist factsThe Pearl Tower attracts over three million visitors each year.  Image:Shanghai-JE3.jpg|Panoramic view of Oriental Pearl Tower Image:Shanghai oriental pearl tower.JPG|Oriental Pearl Tower  Night view  Image:Orientalpearl.jpg|Oriental Pearl at night Image:Shanghaipudong.jpg|Oriental Pearl and night view of Pudong Image:orientalpearl-c.jpg|The Oriental Pearl at night (the second tallest building is the Jin Mao Tower)  Inside the Pearl  Image:Orientalpearlviewpoint1.jpg|Viewpoint (263 meters) Image:Rotatingrestaurant.jpg|Rotating Restaurant (267 meters )  In popular cultureIn Godzilla: Final Wars it was destroyed when Karyu crashed after being knocked by Anguirus.In Fantastic Four: Rise of the Silver Surfer, it is shown two times, first when the Fantastic Four try to catch Dr. Doom, and secondly when the Human Torch pushes Dr. Doom into the Huangpu RiverIn Mission Impossible III, it is shown several times during the mission which was going on in Shanghai.See alsoList of the world's tallest structuresList of towersList of tallest freestanding structures in the worldExternal linksA picture of it at dawnOriental Pearl Tower photosThe poem by Bai Juyi on which the Shanghai Oriental Pearl Tower was based     Category:1995 architecture Category:Towers in China Category:Buildings and structures in Shanghai Category:Visitor attractions in Shanghai Category:Revolving restaurantsde:Oriental Pearl Tower es:Torre Perla Oriental fr:Perle de l'Orient ko:동방명주탑 id:Menara Oriental Pearl it:Oriental Pearl Tower nl:Oriental Pearl Tower ja:東方明珠電視塔 no:Fjernsynstårnet Østens Perle pl:Oriental Pearl Tower pt:Oriental Pearl Tower ro:Oriental Pearl Tower ru:Восточная жемчужина (телебашня) sk:Tung-fang ming-ču-tcha fi:Oriental Pearl Tower vi:Tháp truyền hình Minh Châu Phương Đông zh:东方明珠电视塔