Romagna is an Italian historical region that approximately corresponds to the south-eastern portion of present-day Emilia-Romagna. Traditionally, it is limited by the Apennines to the south-west, the Adriatic to the east, and the rivers Reno and Sillaro to the north and west. The region's major cities include Ravenna, Cesena, Faenza, Forlì, Imola, Rimini and San Marino (a separate nation inside the Romagna historical region).EtymologyThe name Romagna is a cognate of Romania, in reference to an Eastern Roman presence (the Exarchate of Ravenna) in the region, in contrary to other parts of Northern Italy under Lombard rule, named Langobardia or Lombardy.History[[Prehistory]]A number of archaeological sites in the region, such as Monte Poggiolo, show that Romagna has been inhabited since the Paleolithic age.[[Umbri]] and [[Gaul]]sThe Umbri, speaking an extinct Italic language called Umbrian, are the first traceable inhabitants of the region. The Etruscans also dwelt in some portions of Romagna.In the 5th Century BC, various Gaulish tribes, most notably the Lingones, Senoni and Boii, moved south into Italy, and sacked Rome in 390 BC. The Senoni utterly subjugated the Umbri and settled in Romagna. The Senoni extended further south to Ancona, with their capital Sena Gallica (Senigallia). The lands formerly inhabited by the Senoni were known as ager Gallicus (Gallic plain) to the Romans.According to the Italian linguist Giacomo Devoto, there are still a number of Celtic substrata in the local dialect.[[Roman Republic]]The Gallic predominance in the region was consistently challenged by the Romans. In the battle of Telamon, the Romans defeated the joint forces of the Celtic tribes, thus achieving a hegemony over the new province of Cisalpine Gaul centred at Mutina (Modena).After the Second Punic War, the pro-Carthaginian Lingones and Senoni were expelled. To consolidate the Roman rule in the region, Via Aemilia was built from Ariminium (Rimini) to Piacentia (Piacenza), and a series of Roman colonies were founded. The most significant ones are Forum Livii (Forlì), Forum Cornelii (Imola), Forum Popili (Forlimpopoli). After the Social War, the Lex Julia was introduced in 90 BC, and Roman citizenship was granted to all municipia south of the River Po.In the first Roman civil war, between Gaius Marius and Lucius Cornelius Sulla, most cities in the regions supported Marius. As a result, Forum Livii and Caesena were razed to ground, and the region was looted by Sulla's army.During the first triumvirate, the Roman Republic was divided along the infamous Rubicon. Most of modern Romagna was ruled by Julius Caesar, the notable exception of Ariminium, which is south of the river. In 49 BC, Caesar, who was residing in Ravenna then, led the Legio XIII across the Rubicon and ignited the civil war.[[Roman Empire]]After the decisive battle of Actium, Augustus started a century-long era of Pax Romana. All of Cisalpine Gaul had been incorporated into Italy. Around 7 BC, Augustus divided all of Italy into eleven regiones, and most of Romagna (except Rimini) was in the eighth, Aemilia.By the beginning of the 3rd Century, Diocletian re-divided the Empire into four prefectures, each divided into dioceses, and into provinces. Under the new system, Italy was demoted to a mere Imperial province. Modern Romagna was organized into the province of Flaminia et Picenum in the diocese of Italia Annonaria.Steadily Ravenna, which was surrounded by swamps and marshes, prospered and rose in importance, and a classis (fleet) was based at the city. It had developed into a major port on the Adriatic. However, in 330, the capital of the Empire was transferred to Constantinople, so with the fleet that stationed at Ravenna, thus weakened the coastal defence in the Adriatic.[[Germanic migrations]] and [[Exarchate of Ravenna]]Stepping into the 5th Century, the incursions of the Germans into the Empire further intesified. In 402, Emperor Honorius even moved Western Roman Empire's capital from Mediolanum (Milan) to Ravenna, mainly because of the region's defensive terrain. 8 years later, Alaric I of the Visigoths looted Rome. In 476, Odovacer deposed Romulus Augustus in Ravenna, thus marked an end to the Western Empire.Encouraged by Emperor Zeno, Theodoric the Great led the Ostrogoths into Italy. He entered Ravenna and murdered Odoacer in 493, establishing a twofold kingdom of the Romans and Goths. Under the Ostrogoths Italy was partly recovered to its former prosperity.In 535 Justinian I initiated the Gothic War. It was fought for 20 years, and bitterly the Ostrogoths were finally subjugated. The peninsula, depopulated and devastated, was ruled by an exarch from Ravenna. However, Imperial authority was maintained for barely more than a decade. In 578 a new Germanic tribe, namely the Lombards, entered Italy and established their capital at Pavia. The Empire can barely defend the region around Ravenna and Rome, connected by a narrow strip of land passing through Perugia, as well as a series of coastal cities. The Imperial frontier retreated to Bologna, and since then the term Romagna was coined, referring the region around Ravenna under "Roman" control.In 727 the Lombard King Liutprand renewed the war against the Byzantines, taking most of Romagna and besieged Ravenna itself. They were returned to the Byzantines in 730. In 737 the king entered Romagna once more and took Ravenna. The exarch, Eutychius, retook the region in 740, with Venetian assistance. Eventually another Lombard king, Aistulf, conquered Romagna and marked an end to the exarchate in 751.Papal ruleThe Romagna was officially ceded to the Papal States by Rudolf I of Germany in 1278. However, the Papal control over it remained scanty and often nominal for much of the following centuries. The area was divided among a series of regional lords, like the Ordelaffi of Forlì and the Malatesta of Rimini, many of them naturally adhering to the Ghibelline party in natural opposition to the pro-papal Guelphs. This situation started to change in the late 15th century, when after their return to Rome stronger popes progressively reasserted their authority in the fragemented region. Other powers also seized various part of Romagna, including Venice and most notably the Republic of Florence which expanded up to Forlì and Cervia, building the famous city-fortress of Terra del Sole. The Florentine Romagna remained part of Tuscany until 1920s.In 1500 Cesare Borgia, illegitimate son of Pope Alexander VI, carved for himself an ephemeral Duchy of Romagna, but his lands were reabsorbed into the Papal States after his fall. The Peace of Cateau-Cambrésis divided Romagna between the Farnese, Dukes of Parma and Piacenza, the Este of Ferrara, Modena and Reggio, and the Papal States.This situation lasted until the French invasion of 1796, who brought tragic feats (massacre of Lugo, robberies, taxes, abolition of the Cesena University) but also innovative ideas in social and political fields. During the Napoleonic rule Romagna received for the first time a recognition with the creation of the provinces of the Pino (Ravenna) and Rubicone (Forlì). When in 1815 the Congress of Vienna re-established the pre-war situation, secret anti-Papal societies were formed, and riots broke out in 1820, 1830-31 and 1848.This opposition was fuelled by the Mazzinian propaganda and the direct action of Giuseppe Garibaldi. Men like Felice Orsini, Piero Maroncelli and Aurelio Saffi were among the protagonists of the Italian Risorgimento.In a re-united ItalyHowever, after joining the reunification of Italy in 1860, Romagna did not receive a separate status by the Savoy monarchs, who were afraid of dangereous destabilizing tendencies in the wake of the popular figures cited before.In the early 20th century the autonomy of Romagna was advocated by Aldo Spallicci, Giuseppe Fuschini, Emilio Lussu and others. A movement proposing separation from Emilia-Romagna was created in the 1990s.See alsoEmilia-Romagna - the administrative region of ItalyExarchate of RavennaLombard KingdomLombardyItalia (Roman province)External links&quot;Other Romagna&quot;, a local institution[http://www.laromagna.org/ La Romagna] (in Italian)RomagnaOggi.it, a newspaper serving the region online (in Italian) Category:Geographical, historical and cultural regions of Italy Category:Emilia-Romagna Category:Historical regionsar:رومانيا (منطقة) br:Romagna de:Romagna eml:Rumâgna es:Romaña eo:Romagna fr:Romagne (Italie) it:Romagna nl:Romagna ja:ロマーニャ no:Romagna pl:Romania pt:Romanha ro:Romagna sv:Romagna vec:Romagna