Novosibirsk Oblast (, Novosibirskaya oblast) is a federal subject of Russia (an oblast). Its administrative center is the city of Novosibirsk.Novosibirsk Oblast is located in the southeastern Western Siberian plain, at the foothills of low Salair ridge, between the Ob and Irtysh Rivers. Novosibirsk Oblast borders Omsk Oblast (W), Tomsk Oblast (N), and Kemerovo Oblast (E). The southern and the southwestern borders of Novosibirsk Oblast are with Altai Krai and the state of Kazakhstan (Pavlodar Oblysy). The territory of the oblast extends for more than 600&nbsp;km from west to east, and for over 400&nbsp;km from north to south. Novosibirsk Oblast is mainly plain; at south the steppes prevail; at north enormous tracts of woodland with great number of marshes prevail. There are many lakes, the largest ones located at the south. The majority of the rivers belong to the Ob basin, many of them falling in dead lakes. Largest lakes are Chani, Sartlan, Ubinskoye, and some others.GeographyTime zoneUnlike in its immediate neighbors, Decree Time is abolished in Novosibirsk Oblast. This means that the time shift is the same as in Omsk Oblast, which borders it on the west, even though it is technically located in a different timezone, and one hour behind Kemerovo Oblast despite it being in the same timezone.Novosibirsk Oblast is located in the Novosibirsk Time Zone (NOVT/NOVST). UTC offset is +0600&nbsp;(NOVT)/+0700&nbsp;(NOVST). Administrative divisionsDemographicsAccording to the (2002 Census), the national composition of the oblast was 93.0% Russians; 1.8% Germans; 1.3% Ukrainians; 1.0% Tatars; 0.4% Kazakhs; 0.3% Belarusians; 0.3% Armenians; 0.3% Azeris; and 0.2% Chuvash. Many other groups were also counted, but none were more than 0.2% of the population.Births (Jan-Jul 2008): 19,105 (12.5 per 1000)Deaths (Jan-Jul 2008): 23,022 (15.0 per 1000) http://gks.novosibstat.ru/digital/region1/DocLib/region1_1.htmCategory:Novosibirsk Oblastar:نوفوسيبيرسك أوبلاست be:Навасібірская вобласць bg:Новосибирска област ca:Província de Novosibirsk sah:Новосибирскай уобалас cv:Çĕн Çĕпĕр облаçĕ cs:Novosibirská oblast de:Oblast Nowosibirsk et:Novosibirski oblast el:Περιφέρεια Νοβοσιμπίρσκ myv:Одсибирень ёнкс es:Óblast de Novosibirsk fa:استان نووسیبیرسک fr:Oblast de Novossibirsk ga:Cúige Novosibirsk ko:노보시비르스크 주 hr:Novosibirska oblast id:Oblast Novosibirsk it:Oblast' di Novosibirsk he:מחוז נובוסיבירסק pam:Novosibirsk Oblast lv:Novosibirskas apgabals lt:Novosibirsko sritis ms:Wilayah Novosibirsk nl:Oblast Novosibirsk ja:ノヴォシビルスク州 no:Novosibirsk oblast nn:Novosibirsk oblast pl:Obwód nowosybirski pt:Oblast de Novosibirsk ro:Regiunea Novosibirsk ru:Новосибирская область cu:Новосибирьска область sr:Новосибирска област sh:Novosibirska oblast fi:Novosibirskin alue sv:Novosibirsk oblast tg:Вилояти Новосибирск uk:Новосибірська область zh:新西伯利亚州 sk:Novosibirská oblasť