Ravenna, Ohio, United States | Origin = Los Angeles, California, United States | Instrument = Vocals, guitar, bass guitar, keyboard instruments | Genre = Progressive metal, alternative rock, industrial metal, hard rock, experimental | Active = 1985–1987, 1990–present | Label = | Associated_acts = TexA.N.S. (1985–1986)  Children of the Anachronistic Dynasty (1986–1987)  Tool (1990–present)  Green Jellÿ (1991) Tapeworm (1997–2004)  A Perfect Circle (1999–2006)  Puscifer (2003–present) | URL = Puscifer.com  Maynard James Keenan (born James Herbert Keenan on April 17, 1964) is an American rock singer, songwriter, musician, and producer. Although originally from Ohio, Keenan spent his high school and college years in Michigan. After serving in the Army in the early 1980s, he attended Kendall College of Art and Design in Grand Rapids. He relocated to Los Angeles, California in 1988 to pursue a career in interior design and set construction, and formed the band Tool with Adam Jones shortly thereafter.Keenan is best known as the lead singer of the multi-platinum rock bands Tool and A Perfect Circle with whom he has released four and three studio albums, respectively. In 2003, he created Puscifer as a side project, financing and releasing its first studio album in October 2007. In addition to his music career, he has performed improvisational stand-up comedy, as inspired by close friend Bill Hicks, and ventured into acting. His family has been involved in winemaking; he currently owns Merkin Vineyards and Caduceus Cellars in Arizona, where he resides. Among other business ventures, he is a partner in the Los Angeles restaurant Cobras & Matadors and owns a produce market in Cornville, Arizona. Since rising to fame, Keenan has been a noted recluse, although he does emerge to support charitable causes.Early lifeyearbook (class of 1984)]] James Keenan was born in Ravenna, Ohio on April 17, 1964, the only child of Judith Marie and Michael Loren Keenan. When his parents divorced in 1968, his father, a high school teacher, moved to Michigan and Keenan would only see him about once a year for the next 12 years. His mother remarried, bringing Keenan into an "intolerant and unworldly household", where his intelligence and creative expression would be stifled.McAlley, p. 86. When Keenan was 11, his mother suffered a paralyzing cerebral aneurysm, which would later serve as the inspiration for many of his creative works. Two years later, she persuaded Keenan to live with his father in Michigan. Keenan considers this "the best move he ever made."Inspired by Bill Murray's performance in the 1981 comedy film Stripes, Keenan joined the United States Army, with the intention of having the G.I. Bill fund his dream of attending art school. By this point, he had lived in Ohio, Michigan, New Jersey, New York, Oklahoma, Kansas, and Texas.Maynard James Keenan bio. Toolshed.down.net. Retrieved on 2008-01-17. He initially served in the Army as a forward observer before studying at the United States Military Academy Preparatory School (West Point Prep School) from 1983 to 1984. In addition to completing a rigorous math and English curriculum, he ran on the cross country running team and sang in the glee club. It was during his time in the military that he adopted the sobriquet "Maynard" on a whim. He was distinguished in basic and advanced training, but declined an appointment to West Point and instead chose to pursue a music career because of his disillusionment with his colleagues' values and because he knew West Point would not tolerate his dissidence.Upon completing his term of enlistment, he studied art at Kendall College of Art and Design in Grand Rapids, Michigan. In 1988, he relocated to Los Angeles where his love of animals led him to practice interior design for pet stores,Dolan, Jon (August 2006). "33 Things You Should Know About Tool". Blender. Retrieved on 2008-02-11. before he was quickly fired and began working in set construction.Burgess, Aaron (2006-11-30). "Interview: Maynard James Keenan". A.V. Club. Retrieved on 2008-01-16. During the 1980s, Keenan played bass guitar for TexA.N.S. and sang for Children of the Anachronistic Dynasty, both independent bands.Music careerToolAfter moving to Los Angeles, Keenan met Adam Jones, who had heard him singing on a demo in college, and Jones suggested that they form a band. Although reluctant at first, Keenan agreed and, in 1990, Tool was formed. Fronted by Keenan, the eventual lineup included guitarist Jones, his neighbor, drummer Danny Carey, and bassist Paul D'Amour, who would later be replaced by Justin Chancellor.Tool signed to Zoo Entertainment in November 1991 and released the Opiate EP the following year. To support this release, the band toured with Fishbone and Rage Against the Machine. During a 1993 show at the Church of Scientology’s Celebrity Centre in Los Angeles, Keenan (who would later write the lyrics "Fuck L. Ron Hubbard and fuck all his clones"), baa-ed like a sheep for a good portion of the show. "Before our set this guy tries to intimidate me by showing me a gun in his jacket," Keenan recalled. "I explained to him that if he pissed me off I’d start a riot." Shortly thereafter, Tool released their 1993 debut album, Undertow, in the United States, where it was certified gold after just eight months, and platinum less than a year later.(2002-06-07). "Gold/platinum certifications". toolshed.down.net. Retrieved on 2008-01-16. In 1994, the band released their single "Prison Sex"—a song in which Keenan opted to deliver in a slight grunge-style—with a corresponding music video created and directed by Jones. The video was deemed "too graphic and offensive",(2006-10-08). "Tool". SundayObserver.ik. Retrieved on 2008-01-17. and was withdrawn by MTV after a few airings due to "a symbolic dealing with the sensitive subject of child abuse".In October 1996, the band released their second studio album, Ænima, which was certified gold in 10&nbsp;weeks and achieved double platinum in 10&nbsp;months. The Metal Observer reviewed the album stating, "Knowing what is around the corner is rarely guessed correctly and the band focus brutality with melody in equal measure. Tool’s music shouldn’t fit and it doesn’t as Maynard spills forth discontenting imagery through his incisive dissonant lyrics."Doran, Chris (October 28, 2005). "Tool - Ænima". The Metal Observer. Retrieved on 2008-01-29. In 1998, "Ænema" won the Grammy Award for Best Metal Performance. After the release of the album, Tool began a prolonged legal battle with their label Volcano Records (formerly Zoo Records) over alleged contract violations. Following this legal battle, which resulted in a new three record deal, the members of Tool decided to take some time off. During the hiatus, the band members were outspokenly critical of filesharing networks, due to the negative financial impact on artists dependent on success in record sales. During an interview with NY Rock in 2000, Keenan stated, "I think there are a lot of other industries out there that might deserve being destroyed. The ones who get hurt by MP3s are not so much companies or the business, but the artists, people who are trying to write songs."  at Ruisrock 2006]] Five years after the release of Ænima, Tool announced a new album, Systema Encéphale, with a 12-song tracklist in January 2001. A month later, the band revealed that the new album was actually titled Lateralus and that the name Systema Encéphale and the tracklist had been a ruse. The album was released in May 2001 to positive reviews. Known for his "dark, intelligent, compelling, and unexpected lyrical twists",Jabbour, Debbie (2002-10-09). "From My Perspective - Tool Concert" (PDF). The Voice Magazine 10 (39), pp. 7–9. Retrieved on 2008-03-17. Keenan was acclaimed for his songwriting on the album, in which he "doesn’t cross the line from darkness to ugliness ... as often as he has in the past".Richardson, Sean. "Perfect circles: Tool connect on Lateralus". The Phoenix, May 10, 2001. Retrieved on 2008-02-11. In an interview with NY Rock, Keenan explained, "Everything we release with Tool is inspired by our music. It doesn't matter if it is a video or if it's lyrics. The lyrics for "Schism" are nothing more than my interpretation of the music." The album became a worldwide success, reaching #1 on the U.S. ''Billboard'' 200 albums chart in its debut week, and Tool received their second Grammy Award for the best metal performance of 2001 for "Schism".Fifteen years after the band's formation, Tool had acquired what Dan Epstein of Revolver described as a devoted "cult" following,&lt;/ref&gt; and in May 2006, the band released ''[[10,000 Days]]'', an album in which Keenan sang about more personal issues, in contrast to previous attempts to inspire change.&lt;ref name=&quot;10kdayslyrics&quot;&gt;&lt;/ref&gt; His mother is the inspiration for two tracks on the album; the two-part song &quot;Wings for Marie&quot; and &quot;10,000 Days (Wings for Marie, Pt 2)&quot;, and &quot;Jambi&quot;&lt;ref name=McAlley-88&gt;McAlley, p. 88.&lt;/ref&gt;&lt;ref&gt; which deals with her 2003 death after 27&nbsp;years, or around 10,000&nbsp;days, of suffering. The album sold 564,000 copies in its opening week in the U.S. and was #1 on the Billboard 200 charts. However, 10,000 Days was received less favorably by critics than its predecessor Lateralus had been.Metacritic calculated an average score of 68 for 10,000 Days compared to 75 for Lateralus. Tool has one album remaining to fulfill the obligation of its current contract. Though there is no information available on any plans for this album, Tool has worked around Keenan and his side projects since 1999, starting with the creation of A Perfect Circle, which has led to several years between projects. Regarding the future of Tool, Keenan stated in a 2007 interview with Spin, "We'll make music together until one of us is dead."A Perfect Circle During Tool's post-''Ænima'' hiatus to deal with their legal issues, Keenan began working with Billy Howerdel, Tool's guitar tech through the Ænima tour, on a different project. The supergroup they formed, A Perfect Circle, began performing in 1999 and released its first album Mer de Noms in 2000. They released a successful follow-up in 2003 titled Thirteenth Step, a reference to twelve-step programs (many of the songs were written from the perspective of recovery). Both albums were eventually certified platinum. They followed up in 2004 with the release of eMOTIVe, an album composed of covers except the singles "Counting Bodies Like Sheep to the Rhythm of the War Drums"—a song inspired by "Pet" that was originally released on Thirteenth Step—and "Passive". Keenan later characterized the record as a political album with which he "tested the waters" and was subsequently "crucified" for it because of the content. It was certified gold the month after its release. That same year they released the DVD and CD set entitled aMotion, which was certified platinum within a month of its release.Although highly successful, the future of A Perfect Circle remains uncertain. It is currently on hiatus, partly due to Keenan's commitments to Tool, and Howerdel reporting in a May 2006 interview with MTV that the supergroup's work was concluded for the time being.Harris, Chris (2006-05-16). "'A Perfect Circle Is Done For Now,' Says Billy Howerdel". MTV.com. Retrieved on 2008-01-27. After more than two years since the bands last release, Keenan was asked about the status of A Perfect Circle during an interview with Revolver. He stated:That same month, in an interview for Spin magazine, when asked about another A Perfect Circle album, Keenan stated, "Maybe, someday, a song on a soundtrack. But an album? No."Puscifer In 2003, Keenan surfaced under the name "Puscifer" for the song "REV 22:20" on the Underworld film soundtrack. Puscifer was once advertised as a side project with Danny Lohner, who had formerly performed live with Nine Inch Nails, but has since been formed as a manifestation of Keenan's "creative subconscious"&mdash;meaning that Keenan is now using the name as a pseudonym for his solo work. Keenan has stated that it is "a premiere improvisational hardcore band",Epstein, Daniel Robert (2007-03-16). "Interviews &gt; Maynard Keenan". SuicideGirls. Retrieved on 2007-03-17. and his "catch-all, stream of consciousness, anything goes, etc." project. When comparing the project to Tool in an interview with Rolling Stone, Keenan described it as his "attempt to make music to inspire people. ... This is definitely not thinking man's music, but groove-oriented music that makes you feel good."Fricke, David (2007-07-18). "Maynard James Keenan’s Puscifer: Tool Leader Speaks on Enigmatic Side Project". Rolling Stone. Retrieved on 2008-01-19. In a later interview with Artistdirect, Keenan said that he did not want the lyrics to be puzzles. He wanted the complexity to be in the music, stating "that's the part that gets under your skin and makes you feel good."In 2006, Puscifer would contribute the song "The Undertaker (Renholder Mix)" to the soundtrack of Underworld: Evolution, where "Renholder", a moniker for Danny Lohner created by the members of A Perfect Circle, is the reversal of "Re: D Lohner".Movement Magazine. &quot;Renholder: The Danny Lohner Interview&quot;. Retrieved on 2008-03-18.Larson, Alex (October 2, 2003). "A trip into metal’s 'Underworld'". The Badger Herald. Retrieved on 2008-01-10. Keenan financed and released the first studio album, &quot;V&quot; Is for Vagina, in October 2007.McKibbin, Adam (2007-10-29). "Interview: Puscifer's Maynard James Keenan". Artistdirect, p. 2. Retrieved on 2008-01-21. Created in a tour bus, in several hotel rooms, and in various studios around the country while Keenan toured with Tool, the album is a radical departure from Keenan's contributions in Tool and A Perfect Circle. Tim Alexander, best known as the drummer for rock band Primus, is a guest musician on the album. He says Puscifer is "trancy and hypnotic. A total 180 from Tool." The album was criticized as unfocused and lacking in the passion and intelligence present in his previous work.Writing/Performance StyleA primary purpose of Keenan's lyrics for Tool involves a desire to connect with the listeners on a personal level; to encourage them to look within themselves for self-identity, understanding and reflection. Tool does not include lyrics with any releases as Keenan believes most people "don't get it" and it is not a priority of the band that people do. However, after each release Keenan has eventually published his typed lyrics online via the semi-official fansite, with the exception of "Lateralus", which was published on the official Tool website. Lyrical arrangements are often given special attention, such as in the lyrics to "Lateralus", wherein the number of syllables per line correspond to an arrangement of the Fibonacci numbers, and "Jambi", in which the metrical foot iamb is used. Keenan's lyrics on Ænima and Lateralus focused on philosophy and spirituality—specific subjects range from organized religion in "Opiate", to evolution and Jungian psychology in "Forty-Six &amp; 2" and transcendence in "Lateralus".In live performances with Tool, Keenan has been known to be situated on a platform towards the rear of the stage, without a spotlight, facing the backdrop rather than the audience.Keenan's unusual stage positioning is discussed at the following: His vocals are mixed in low volume.  With Tool, his appearance has included the Mohawk hairstyle, wigs, Kabuki masks, bras, tights, and his entire body in blue paint. This is contrasted with a long dark wig with A Perfect Circle. His posture on stage is usually bent.Describing Keenan's contribution to Tool and A Perfect Circle, The New York Times wrote that "both groups rely on Mr. Keenan's ability to dignify emotions like lust, anger and disgust, the honey in his voice adding a touch of profundity". Keenan's ability as a vocalist has been lauded by the Seattle Post-Intelligencer: after his performance during an Alice in Chains reunion concert in 2005, freelance journalist Travis Hay saw him as "a natural fit at replacing Layne Staley". His unique style of singing has often been considered influential to artists such as Pete Loeffler of Chevelle.ComedyKeenan became friends with comedian Bill Hicks in the early 1990s. Keenan did stand-up comedy on improv nights in comedy clubs in Los Angeles during that time.Kharakh, Bed (2007-11-06). "Bill Starpulse Q&amp;A: Maynard James Keenan: N for New Album". Starpulse.com. Retrieved on 2008-04-14. The two became acquainted and Hicks later opened some Tool concerts. Best known is a routine Hicks did while on tour with Tool during the Lollapalooza tour in 1993, when he asked the audience to look for a contact lens he had lost. Keenan enjoyed this joke so much that he repeated it on a number of occasions.Keenan is featured in several segments of Mr. Show, most notably in the Ronnie Dobbs sketch presented in the first season. In one scene, he is seen being arrested with Dobbs. Later in the sketch he is featured wearing a wig as the lead singer of the then-fictitious band "Puscifer". When asked about the arrest of Dobbs, Keenan replies "Guilty? Yeah. I'm sure he's guilty but... he knows it. I mean, you're guilty, and you don't know it. So... who's really in jail?" He also appears in episode 2.6, "The Velveteen Touch of a Dandy Fop", as one of the viewers of Coupon: The Movie, saying "Now is not the time", waving the cameras off and slapping the microphone out of his face in disgust after walking out of the theater. Later, Keenan would sing on a track for the Mr. Show incarnation Run Ronnie Run, and appear in the "music video sex scene" on its DVD. Keenan's portrayal of Charles Manson on The Ben Stiller Show was described by critics as "so intense and too real to not be upsetting". He also appeared as Satan in the 2002 film Bikini Bandits and its 2004 sequel Bikini Bandits 2: Golden Rod. When asked in an interview which role was more difficult, Keenan responded, "Oh, Manson. He’s a real person. People know what he looks like, how he talked. With Satan there’s so much gray area."In the mid-90s, responding to requests for Tool to perform in benefit shows, Keenan created "Free Frances Bean" tee-shirts to represent his own platform. Frances' mother Courtney Love had previously referred to Keenan as a "media whore" to which he responded, "Isn't that great? I have the distinction of being called a media whore by Courtney Love." He said that after watching "the tornado that is her mother", he thought "Oh my God, how is Frances Bean gonna survive this insanity?" Although it was started as a simple joke, the tee-shirts were soon in high demand and Keenan was giving them away.On April 1, 2005, the official Tool website announced, as an April Fools' Day prank, that "Maynard has found jesus" and would be abandoning the recording of the new album temporarily and possibly permanently. Kurt Loder of MTV contacted Keenan via email to ask for a confirmation and received a nonchalant confirmation. When Loder asked again, Keenan's response was simply "heh heh". On April 7, the official site revealed that it was a hoax. During an interview Keenan later stated, "It was April Fools’. If you fall for that on April Fools’ Day, there’s nothing I can do for you." He has been part of other April Fools' pranks related to Tool, including one in which he was said to be in critical condition after a tour bus accident.Personal lifeKeenan, who has described himself as "happily unmarried", is currently in a relationship, stating, "For the first time in my life, I have someone who's taking care of me, rather than the other way around." He has a son named Devo H. Keenan (born August 5, 1995) who is the cellist for Ashes Divide, Billy Howerdel's post-A Perfect Circle project. It was after the birth of his son that it occurred to Keenan to obscure his identity in order to prevent his son from being "victimized by his career". Keenan was engaged at one time, but the couple broke up. The song "Breña" by A Perfect Circle uses her middle name, while the single "Judith" bears the name of Keenan's mother, and Tool's "H" is the middle name of his son.Borzillo, Carrie (December 1996). "Work With Me". Transcribed from Strobe to toolshed.down.net. Retrieved on 2008-03-18.Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu is one of Keenan's pursuits, having studied under Rickson Gracie, who is widely considered one of the martial art's greatest practitioners. In addition to being part-owner of Cobras & Matadors, an LA restaurant, Keenan, whose family made wine in Northern Italy, owns Merkin Vineyards and Caduceus Cellars, based in the unincorporated area of Page Springs/Cornville, Arizona, southwest of Sedona, where he currently resides.Carle, Chris (2006-11-13). "Maynard James Keenan Interview". IGN. Retrieved on 2008-01-16. While the winery is named after an ancient symbol for commerce (caduceus), the vineyard is named after a pubic wig (merkin). Keenan's mother died in 2003, at the age of 59, due to complications from her aneurysm. Following her death, he scattered her ashes across one of his vineyards, and later named one of his wines after her. Keenan also owns a produce market in Cornville.McAlley, p. 85.Keenan has a reputation for being reclusive, elliptical and controlling of his public image. He dislikes the manner in which rock stars are worshipped,"Inside the Tool Box", Edmonton Journal, October 5, 2002. and at one point carried business cards with the name "Jesus H. Christ" printed on them. Often having to deal with stalkers,McAlley, pp. 85, 88. Keenan has resorted to using a paintball rifle to run trespassing fans from his property.PhilanthropyKeenan has used his voice on numerous occasions to support charitable causes. He performed at a 1997 benefit concert for RAINN (the Rape, Abuse & Incest National Network) organized by Tori Amos (who had often referred to Keenan as an unofficial brother). He is one of the notable performers for Axis of Justice, a non-profit organization that brings musicians, fans of music, and grassroots political organizations together to fight for social justice.Our Mission. axisofjustice.org. Retrieved on August 14, 2008. In 2004, Axis of Justice released Concert Series Volume 1. Included are two tracks featuring Keenan on vocals. The second track on the album, "(What's So Funny 'Bout) Peace, Love, and Understanding", was recorded live during Lollapalooza in Seattle, Washington on August 23, 2003. The first track, "Where the Streets Have No Name", was recorded live during the Axis of Justice Concert Series at The Avalon in Hollywood, California on July 19, 2004. In February 2005, Keenan appeared as a surprise vocalist at a Seattle benefit concert for victims of the 2004 earthquake and tsunami in southern Asia, performing with the partly reformed Alice in Chains in place of the deceased vocalist Layne Staley on the songs "Them Bones", and "Man in the Box".(February 2, 2008). "Alice In Chains/Maynard Keenan 2005 Live Video Posted Online". Blabbermouth.com. Retrieved on 2008-01-11.Selected discographySelected collaborations"Know Your Enemy" (1992) &ndash; Rage Against the Machine from their self-titled album (Vocals during the slow bridge)Credits &gt; Maynard James Keenan. Allmusic. Retrieved on 2008-02-15."Three Little Pigs" (1992) &ndash; Green Jellÿ from their Cereal Killer VHS as well as the 1993 soundtrack (Performs the falsetto line "not by the hair of my chinny chin chin")"Silly Love Songs" (1995) &ndash; Replicants (Vocal duet with Ken Andrews)"Calling Dr. Love" (1994) &ndash; Kiss My Ass: Classic Kiss Regrooved, a Kiss cover (Vocals with the one-off entity Shandi's Addiction; Billy Gould, Tom Morello and Brad Wilk)"Divorced" (2000) &ndash; The Crybaby by The Melvins (Appearance with Tool)"Passenger" (2000) &ndash; White Pony by Deftones (Vocal duet with Chino Moreno)"Ass Kickin' Fat Kid" (2003) &ndash; Run Ronnie Run DVD by Titannica (Vocals)"Bring Me the Disco King (Lohner Mix)" (2003) &ndash; Underworld soundtrack (Backing vocals)"Where the Streets Have No Name (Live)" and "(What's So Funny 'Bout) Peace, Love and Understanding (Live)" (2004) &ndash; Concert Series Volume 1 by Axis of Justice (Vocals)Unreleased"Can't Kill The Revolution" &ndash; a collaboration between Rage Against the Machine and Tool. The song contains in the chorus "You can kill the revolutionary, but you can't kill the revolution.""21st Century Schizoid Man" (2007) &ndash; King Crimson. (Vocals)Other creditsMer de Noms (2000) &ndash; A Perfect Circle (Logo design)Thirteenth Step (2003) &ndash; A Perfect Circle (Executive producer, artwork)"Weak and Powerless"/"Blue" (2003) &ndash; A Perfect Circle (Executive producer)Underworld (2003) &ndash; Original Soundtrack, "Judith (Renholder Mix)" and "REV 22:20" (Writer)AMotion (2004) &ndash; A Perfect Circle (Guitar, arranger, performer, executive producer, artwork)Emotive Clean (2004) &ndash; A Perfect Circle (Piano, executive producer, re-arranged)Emotive (2004) &ndash; A Perfect Circle (Piano, arranger, executive producer, re-arranged)Saw II Clean (2005) &ndash; Original Soundtrack (Remixing)Saw II (2005) &ndash; Original Soundtrack (Remixing)Constantine (2005) &ndash; Original Soundtrack, "Passive" (Writer)10,000 Days (2006) &ndash; Tool (Producer)The Invisible (2007) &ndash; Original Soundtrack, "Weak and Powerless" (Writer)Maynard James Keenan &gt; Credits. Allmusic. Retrieved on 2008-03-17.Notes and references tags--McAlley, John. (December 2007). "I, Puscifer". Spin. Retrieved on 2008-04-14.External linksMaynardJamesKeenan.com, currently redirecting to the Puscifer website..Wine Spectator Online, where Maynard maintains a running blog about wine collecting and winemaking.       Category:1964 births Category:American male singers Category:American rock singers Category:Falsettos Category:American heavy metal singers Category:Living people Category:Ohio musicians Category:People from Portage County, Ohio Category:Tool members Category:A Perfect Circle members Category:United States Army soldiers Category:Critics of religions or philosophies Category:Critics of Scientology Category:American Brazilian-Jiu-Jitsu practitionerscs:Maynard James Keenan da:Maynard James Keenan de:Maynard James Keenan es:Maynard James Keenan fr:Maynard James Keenan gl:Maynard James Keenan it:Maynard James Keenan he:מיינארד ג'יימס קינן hu:Maynard James Keenan nl:Maynard James Keenan no:Maynard James Keenan pl:Maynard James Keenan pt:Maynard James Keenan ru:Кинан, Мэйнард Джеймс simple:Maynard James Keenan sl:Maynard James Keenan fi:Maynard James Keenan sv:Maynard James Keenan tr:Maynard James Keenan