 The dative case is a grammatical case generally used to indicate the noun to whom something is given. For example, in "John gave a book ' to Mary'".The name is derived from the Latin casus dativus, meaning "the case appropriate to giving"; this was in turn modelled on the Greek'' , from its use with the verb ''διδόναι (didónai) — "to give".The thing being given may be a tangible object, such as "a book" or "a pen", or it may be an intangible abstraction, such as "an answer" or "help". The dative generally marks the indirect object of a verb, although in some instances the dative is used for the direct object of a verb pertaining directly to an act of giving something. In Russian, for example, the verb 'to call' telephone is always followed by a noun in the dative.In some languages the dative case has assimilated the functions of other now-extinct cases. Dative also marks possession in Classical Greek, which has lost the locative and instrumental cases. The dative assumed their functions. In Scottish Gaelic and Irish, the term dative case is misleadingly used in traditional grammars to refer to the prepositional case-marking of nouns following simple prepositions and the definite article. In Georgian, the dative case also marks the subject of the sentence in some verbs and some tenses. This is also called the dative construction.The dative was common among early Indo-European languages and has survived to the present in the Balto-Slavic branch and the Germanic branch, among others. It also exists in similar forms in several non&ndash;Indo-European languages, such as the Finno-Ugric family of languages and Japanese.Under the influence of English, which uses the preposition "to" for both indirect objects (give to) and directions of movement (go to), the term "dative" has sometimes been used to describe cases that in other languages would more appropriately be called lative.The dative case in EnglishThe Old English language, current until approximately the time of the Norman Conquest in 1066, had a dative case; however, the English case system gradually fell into disuse during the Middle English period, when the accusative and dative pronouns merged into a single objective pronoun used in both roles. This merging of accusative and dative functionality in Middle and Modern English has led most modern grammarians to discard the "accusative" and "dative" labels in English as obsolete, in favor of the term "objective".While the dative case is no longer a part of modern English usage, it survives in a few set expressions. One good example is the word "methinks", with the meaning "it seems to me". It survives in this fixed form from the days of Old English (having undergone, however, phonetic changes with the rest of the language), in which it was constructed as "it" + "me" (the dative case of the personal pronoun) + "thinks" (i.e. "seems", Morwood, James. Oxford Grammar of Classical Greek. Oxford University Press, 2002. (ISBN 0-19-521851-5):Dativus finalis: The dativus finalis, or the 'dative of purpose', is when the dative is used to denote the purpose of a certain action. For example:"""I fight for the king"."""I die for honour".Dativus commodi (incommodi): The dativus commodi sive incommodi, or the 'dative of benefit (or harm)' is the dative that expresses the advantage or disadvantage of something for someone. For example:For the benefit of: "" (Sophocles, Ajax 1366)."Every man toils for himself".For the harm or disadvantage of: "" (Thucydides 2.12.4)."This day will be the beginning of great sorrows for the Greeks (i.e., for their disadvantage)".Dativus possesivus: The dativus possesivus, or the 'dative of possession' is the dative used to denote the possessor of a certain object or objects. For example:"" (Thucycdides 1.86.3)."For others have a lot of money and ships and horses, but we have good allies (i.e., To others there is a lot of money..)".Dativus ethicus: The dativus ethicus, or the 'ethic or polite dative,' is when the dative is used to signify that the person or thing spoken of is regarded with interest by someone. This dative is mostly, if not exclusively, used in pronouns. As such, it is also called the "dative of pronouns." For example:"" (Demosthenes 18.178)."Pay close attention to this, I beg you (i.e., please pay..)"."" (Xenophon, Cyropaedia 18.178)."Oh, mother, how handsome grandpa is (I've just realized!)".Dativus auctoris: The dativus auctoris, or the 'dative of agent,' is the dative used to denote the doer of an action. Note, however, that in Classical Greek, the agent is usually in the genitive after  (by, at the hands of). The agent is in the dative only with the perfect and pluperfect passive, and after the verbal adjective in . For example:"" (Isocrates 8.39)"Many cures have been discovered by doctors."Dativus instrumenti: The dativus instrumenti, or the 'dative of instrument,' is when the dative is used to denote an instrument or mean of a certain action (or, more accurately, as the instrumental case). For example:"." (Homer, Odyssey 9.407)"He kills me with a bait (i.e., by means of a bait)."Dativus modi: The dativus modi, or the 'dative of manner,' is the dative used to describe the manner or way by which something happened. For example:"" (Thucydides 8.84)"having died of (from) a disease."Dativus mensurae: The dativus mensurae, or the 'dative of measurement,' is the dative used to denote the measurement of difference. For example:"" (Plato, Phaedo 101a)"taller by a head.""" (Plato, Laws 729d)"by far the best."The dative case in Slavic languagesUnusual in other Indo-European branches but common among Slavic languages, the choice of ending depends on whether the word is a noun or an adjective. Other factors are gender and number. In some cases, the ending may not be obvious, even when those three factors are considered, ie. in Polish, syn ("son") and ojciec ("father") are both masculine singular nouns but syn → syn'owi'' and ojciec → ojc'u''.In Russian, the dative case is used to indicate the indirect object of an action (that to which something is given, thrown, read, etc). In the instance where a person is the goal of motion, dative is used instead of accusative to indicate motion toward. This is usually achieved with the pronoun κ+destination in dative case; К врачу, meaning 'to the doctor'.Dative is also the necessary case taken by certain prepositions when expressing certain ideas. For instance, when the preposition по is used to mean "along", its object is always in dative case as with, По бокам, 'along the sides'.Other Slavic languages apply the dative case (and the other cases) more or less the same way as does Russian, some languages may use the dative in other ways. The following examples are from Polish:after certain verbs (dziękować komuś "to thank someone", pomóc komuś "to help someone", wierzyć komuś "to believe someone")in certain expressions (Czy podoba ci się piosenka? "Do you like the song?", Jest mi zimno "I'm cold", Jest nam smutno "We're feeling sad", Będzie wam trudniej... "It will be more difficult for you guys"), Śniło jej się, że... "She dreamt that")dativus commodi to indicate action for somebody (Zbuduję t'emu' człowiek'owi' dom "I will build a house for this person")when something is taken away or something occurs to someone (Zdechł im pies "Their dog died", Zabrali mu komputer "They took away his computer", Zepsuł nam się samochód "Our car broke down", Coś mi się przypomniało "I just remembered something")The dative case in Non-Indo-European languagesThe dative case in HungarianAs with many other languages, the dative case is used in Hungarian to show the indirect object of a verb. For example, adtam ezt a könyvet '''Danielnek' (I gave this book '''to Daniel').It has two suffixes, '-nak' and '-nek'; the correct is selected by vowel harmony. The personal dative pronouns follow the -nek version: nekem, neked, etc.This case is also used to express "for" in certain circumstances, such as "I bought a gift for Mother".It is also used in possessive constructions, particularly when the possessor needs to be stressed:Neked van kutyád? Do you have a dog?Kinek van kutyája? Who has a dog?It is also used when the possessor is itself possessed or when possession is daisey-chained:Az anya kutyája. Mother's dog.Az anyám''nak'' a kutyája. My mother's dog.Az anyám kutyájának a feje. My mother's dog's head.The dative case in TsezIn the Northeast Caucasian languages, such as Tsez, the dative also takes the functions of the lative case in marking the direction of an action. By some linguists, they are still regarded as two separate cases in those languages, although the suffixes are the exact same for both cases. Other linguists list them separately only for the purpose of separating syntactic cases from locative cases. An example with the ditransitive verb "show" (literally: "make see") is given below:The dative/lative is also used to indicate possession, as in the example below, because there is no such verb as "to have". As in the examples above, the dative/lative case usually occurs in combination with another suffix as poss-lative case; this should not be regarded as a separate case, though, as many of the locative cases in Tsez are constructed analytically; hence, they are actually a combination of two case suffixes. See Tsez language#Locative case suffixes for further details.Verbs of perception or emotion (like "see", "know", "love", "want") also require the logical subject to stand in the dative/lative case, note that in this example the "pure" dative/lative without its POSS-suffix is used.See alsoDative constructionDeclension in EnglishDouble dativeExternal linksHungarian dative case from www.HungarianReference.comDative Case in RussianResources to learn Dative Case in RussianReferencesCategory:Grammatical casesan:Datibo bs:Dativ bg:Дателен падеж ca:Cas datiu cs:Dativ da:Dativ de:Dativ el:Δοτική es:Caso dativo eo:Dativo fr:Datif gd:Tabhartach gl:Dativo zh-classical:與格 hr:Dativ is:Þágufall it:Dativo la:Dativus li:Datief hu:Részes eset mk:Датив nl:Datief ja:与格 no:Dativ nn:Dativ pl:Celownik (przypadek) pt:Caso dativo ro:Cazul dativ ru:Дательный падеж sk:Datív sr:Датив sh:Dativ fi:Datiivi sv:Dativ uk:Давальний відмінок vec:Dativo yi:דאטיוו zh:与格