| Section2 = | Section7 = | Section8 =  Butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT), also known as Butylhydroxytoluene, is a lipophilic (fat-soluble) organic compound that is primarily used as an antioxidant food additive (E number E321) as well as in cosmetics, pharmaceuticals, jet fuels, rubber, petroleum products, and embalming fluid.ChemistryBHT is produced by alkylation reaction of ''p''-cresol with isobutylene. The species behaves as a synthetic analogue of vitamin E, primarily acting as a terminating agent that suppresses autoxidation, a process whereby unsaturated (usually) organic compounds are attacked by atmospheric oxygen. BHT stops this autocatalytic reaction by converting peroxy radicals to hydroperoxides. It effects this function by donating a hydrogen atom:RO2. + ArOH → ROOH + ArO.RO2. + ArO. → nonradical productswhere R is alkyl or aryl, and where ArOH is BHT or related phenolic antioxidants. One can see that each BHT consumes two peroxy radicals.Burton, G. W.; Ingold, K. U., "Autoxidation of biological molecules. 1. Antioxidant activity of vitamin E and related chain-breaking phenolic antioxidants in vitro", Journal of the American Chemical Society, 1981, volume 103, pp 6472 - 6477. DOI: 10.1021/ja00411a035In the chemical industry it is added to tetrahydrofuran and diethyl ether in order to inhibit the formation of dangerous organic peroxides.Controversy The compound has been banned for use in food in Japan (1958), Romania, and Australia. The US has barred it from infant foods. Some food industries have voluntarily eliminated it from their products. However, BHT is also marketed as a health food supplement in capsule form. In different studies, BHT has been reported to cure some cancers, but to encourage others. BHT is well studied because of public concern over synthetic preservatives. Since the 1970s, BHT has been steadily replaced with the less studied BHA; however, BHT is still used in some foods.ReferencesSee alsoButylated hydroxyanisole (BHA)External linksAn experiment on the effectiveness BHT has against herpes &amp; cold sore outbreaksWhy are BHA and BHT in foods? Are they safe?Bioassay of BHT, includes structureBUTYLATED HYDROXYTOLUENE (ICSC)Butylated Hydroxytoluene (BHT) AntioxidantCategory:Antioxidants Category:Phenols Category:Fuel antioxidants Category:Food antioxidantsde:Butylhydroxytoluol es:BHT fr:Hydroxytoluène butylé it:Butilidrossitoluene hu:Butil-hidroxi-toluol nl:Butylhydroxytolueen ja:ジブチルヒドロキシトルエン pl:Butylowany hydroksytoluen pt:BHT ru:Ионол zh:2,6-二叔丁基對甲酚