 In Cold Blood is a 1966 book by American author Truman Capote.The book details the 1959 slaying of Herbert Clutter, a wealthy farmer from Holcomb, Kansas; his wife, and two children. When Capote learned of the quadruple murder before the killers were captured, he decided to travel to Kansas and write about the crime. Bringing his childhood friend and fellow author Harper Lee along, together they interviewed local residents and investigators assigned to the case and took thousands of pages of notes. The killers, Richard &quot;Dick&quot; Hickock and Perry Smith, were arrested not long after the murders, and Capote ultimately spent six years working on the book. It is considered the originator of the non-fiction novel and the forerunner of the New Journalism movement.The story weaves a complicated psychological story of two parolees who together commit a mass murder, an act they were not capable of individually. Capote's book also details the lives of the victims and the effect the crime had on where they lived. A large part of the story involves the dynamic psychological relationship of the two felons that culminated in this senseless crime. In Cold Blood is often regarded as a pioneering work of true crime.==Overview of the Crime== Herbert Clutter was a dedicated Methodist and a widely respected self-made man, who had established a successful farm from modest beginnings. He employed as many as eighteen farm hands, and former employees reportedly admired and respected him for his fair treatment and good wages. His four children, three girls and a boy, were widely respected in the community. The two eldest, Eveanna and Beverly, had moved out of their parents' home and started their adult lives. The two younger children, Nancy (age 16) and Kenyon (15), were high school students still living at home. Clutter's wife, Bonnie, a member of the local garden club, had been incapacitated with 'clinical depression, depression' and physical ailments since the births of her children; although this characterization of her has been disputed by surviving family members.Two ex-convicts on parole from the Kansas State Penitentiary, Richard &quot;Dick&quot; Hickock and Perry Edward Smith, committed the robbery and murders on November 15, 1959. Richard Hickock had heard from a fellow prisoner, Floyd Wells, who had once worked for the Clutters, that there was a safe at the ranch where Herb Clutter kept large amounts of cash. Hickock later contacted Smith about committing the robbery with him. Hickock hatched the idea in prison to commit the robbery, leave no witnesses and start a new life in Mexico with the cash from the Clutter home. Hickock described his plan as "a cinch, the perfect score."In Cold Blood, p. 44 The information proved to be false, since Herb Clutter did not keep cash on hand, had no safe, and did all his business using checks to better keep track of transactions.After driving across the state of Kansas on Saturday, November 14, 1959 and discovering that there was no money to be found at the Clutters' home, Smith slit Herb Clutter's throat and then shot him in the head. As Smith recounted later, "I didn't want to harm the man. I thought he was a very nice gentleman. Soft spoken. I thought so right up to the moment I cut his throat."In Cold Blood, p. 244 Kenyon, then Nancy, and then Bonnie were murdered, each by single shotgun blasts to the head.Smith claimed in his oral confession that Hickock murdered the two women. When asked to sign his confession, however, Smith refused. He wanted to accept responsibility for all four killings because he said he was "sorry for Dick's mother." Smith added, "She's a real sweet person."In Cold Blood, p. 255 Hickock always maintained that Smith did all four killings.Hickock and Smith were ultimately arrested in Las Vegas about six weeks after the murders. They pleaded temporary insanity during the trial, but local GPs evaluated the accused and pronounced them sane. After five years on death row, Smith and Hickock were executed by hanging just after midnight on April 14, 1965 in Lansing, Kansas at the Kansas State Penitentiary (now known as Lansing Correctional Facility). The gallows from which they were hanged is now part of the collections of the Kansas State Historical Society. http://www.kshs.org/Capote's researchOn November 16, 1959, The New York Times published the following account of the murders.This 300-word article interested Capote enough for him to travel to Kansas to investigate the murders. Capote brought his childhood friend Harper Lee, who would later win the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction for her novel To Kill a Mockingbird, with him to help gain the confidence of the locals, who mistrusted Capote. Capote did copious research for the work, ultimately compiling 8,000 pages. After the criminals were found, tried, and convicted, Capote held personal interviews with both Smith and Hickock. Smith especially fascinated Capote; in the book he is portrayed as the more sensitive and guilt-ridden of the two killers. Rumors of a romantic and even sexual relationship, mainly due to Capote's homosexuality, are still suggested to this day. The book was not completed until after Smith and Hickock were executed.PublicationIn Cold Blood was first published as a four-part serial in The New Yorker, beginning with the September 25, 1965 issue. The piece was an immediate sensation, particularly in Kansas where The New Yorker had sent no more than the usual number of copies which sold out almost instantly. In Cold Blood was first published in book form by Random House in January of 1966.Clarke, Gerald (1988) Capote: A Biography. Simon and Schuster. P. 362–363. The book, however, was copyrighted in 1965 and this appears on the title page of most versions of the book and in some library indexes as the original publication year. The Library of Congress lists 1966 as publication date and 1965 as copyright date.LCCN 65011257. In Cold Blood listing with the Library of CongressCriticismTom Wolfe wrote in his essay Pornoviolence: "The book is neither a who-done-it nor a will-they-be-caught, since the answers to both questions are known from the outset ... Instead, the book's suspense is based largely on a totally new idea in detective stories: the promise of gory details, and the withholding of them until the end."Wolfe, Tom: "Mauve Gloves &amp; Madmen, Clutter &amp; Vine", pages 163-164. Picador, 1990.Despite the book's billing as a factual "True Crime" account, several people have challenged the authenticity of the book. Capote allegedly changed facts to suit his story, added scenes which never occurred, and re-created dialogue for which none was known to exist before. Capote relied entirely on memorization when talking to subjects in the book, and did not use a tape recorder or take any written notes. This alone may have contributed to several inaccuracies in the book. See "Credibility Issues" here: http://list.msu.edu/cgi-bin/wa?A2=ind0101b&amp;L=aejmc&amp;T=0&amp;P=7693AdaptationsThe book itself was made into a 1967 film of the same name by Richard Brooks, who directed and adapted the screenplay. It starred Robert Blake as Perry Smith and Scott Wilson as Richard Hickock. John Forsythe played the investigator from the Kansas Bureau of investigation who aprehended the killers. The film was in black and white. It was nominated for four Academy Awards: Best Director, Best Original Score, Best Cinematography and Best Adapted Screenplay. The film was also adapted into a 1996 miniseries starring Anthony Edwards and Eric Roberts.Capote's experiences in writing the story, and his subsequent fascination with the murders, have been adapted into two films. Capote (2005) starred Philip Seymour Hoffman, who won the Academy Award for Best Actor for his portrayal of Truman Capote, and Catherine Keener as Harper Lee. The film was critically acclaimed and was nominated for four other Oscars, including Best Picture, Best Supporting Actress (Keener), Best Director (Bennett Miller), and Best Adapted Screenplay (Dan Futterman). A year later the film Infamous, starring Toby Jones as Capote and Sandra Bullock as Lee, was released to favorable reviews.Rock band Smoking Popes included the song "The Corner" on their 2008 album Stay Down, which is completely based on the book.See alsoNew JournalismLowell Lee AndrewsReferencesExternal links[http://www.newyorker.com/archive/1965/09/25/1965_09_25_057_TNY_CARDS_000280568 In Cold Blood, Part I: "The Last to See Them Alive"] in The New Yorker (September 25, 1965); the three subsequent installments are available in synopsis only:Part II: &quot;Persons Unknown&quot; (Abstract) (October 2, 1965)Part III: &quot;Answers&quot; (Abstract) (October 9, 1965)Part IV: &quot;The Corner&quot; (Abstract) (October 16, 1965)Writing history: Capote's novel has lasting effect on journalism[http://list.msu.edu/cgi-bin/wa?A2=ind0101b&amp;L=aejmc&amp;T=0&amp;P=7693 Capote's Legacy: The Challenge of Creativity and Credibility in Literary Journalism][http://www2.ljworld.com/photos/galleries/2005/apr/03/in_cold_blood_a_legacy_in_photos/ In Cold Blood, a Legacy in Photos]Photos of the first edition of In Cold BloodLiterapedia Book Summaries for In Cold Blood1966 interview of Capote by George PlimptonCategory:1966 books Category:Non-fiction crime books Category:Edgar Award winning worksCategory:Books by Truman Capote Category:American non-fiction books Category:Non-fiction novelsde:Kaltblütig es:A sangre fría (novela) eu:In Cold Blood (eleberria) fr:De sang-froid it:A sangue freddo (romanzo) he:בדם קר nl:In koelen bloede ja:冷血 pl:Z zimną krwią pt:A Sangue Frio sv:In Cold Blood (album)