 , a prominent tourist attraction in Kimberley]] 'Kimberley ' is a town in South Africa, and the capital of the Northern Cape. It is located at  near the Orange River, and is serviced by the nearby Kimberley Airport. The Kimberley Comprehensive Urban Plan (1998) estimates that Kimberley has 210,800 people representing 46,207 households living in the city. Kimberley also hosted a match from the 2003 ICC Cricket World Cup.== History ==  In 1866, Erasmus Jacobs found a small white pebble on the banks of the Orange River, on the farm De Kalk leased from local Griquas, near Hopetown. The pebble was purchased from Jacobs by Schalk van Nierkerk who later sold it in London Martin Meredith, Diamonds, Gold, and War: The British, the Boers, and the Making of South Africa, (New York, Public affairs, 2007):16, and turned out to be a 21.25 carat (4.25 g) diamond. Nierkerk sold the first diamond for £500, and then three years later sold another diamond also found in the De Kalk vicinity for £11,200. The second diamond was promptly resold in the London markets for £25,000.Martin Meredith, Diamonds, Gold, and War: The British, the Boers, and the Making of South Africa, (New York, Public affairs, 2007):17 In 1871, an even larger 83.50 carat (16.7 g) diamond was found on the slopes of Colesberg Kopje by Esau Damoense, the cook for prospector Fleetwood Rawstone's "Red Cap Party," who was sent to dig on the hill as a punishment for being drunk. This find led to the first diamond rush into the area. As miners arrived in their thousands, the hill disappeared, and became known as the Big Hole. A town, New Rush, was formed in the area, and was renamed to Kimberley on 5 June 1873, after the British Secretary of State for the Colonies at the time, John Wodehouse, 1st Earl of Kimberley. By this time Kimberley was the second largest town in South Africa, it had a total population of 13,000 whites and 30,000 blacks. Martin Meredith, Diamonds, Gold, and War: The British, the Boers, and the Making of South Africa, (New York, Public Affairs, 2007):34 The British, who had control of much of South Africa, were quick to annex the area of the diamond mine, which became the British colony of Griqualand West. The Boers were upset by this, because they wanted it to be a part of the Orange Free State as it lay inside the natural borders created by Orange and Vaal Rivers.The largest company to operate a diamond mine in South Africa was the De Beers Company, owned by Cecil Rhodes and his business associate, Charles Rudd.Martin Meredith, Diamonds, Gold, and War, (New York, Public Affairs, 2007):53 Very quickly, Kimberley became the largest city in the area, mostly due to a massive African migration to the area from all over the continent. The immigrants were accepted with open arms, because the De Beers company was in search of cheap labour to help run the mines. Another group drawn to the city for money was prostitutes, from a wide variety of ethnicities who could be found in bars and saloons. It was praised as a city of limitless opportunity.Meredith, 36.Five big holes were dug into the earth, which followed the kimberlite pipes, which are named after the town. Kimberlite is a dimond-bearing blue ground that sits below a yellow colored soil.Martin Meredith, Diamonds, Gold, and War, (New York, Public Affairs, 2007): 34The largest, The Kimberley mine or "Big Hole" covering 170&nbsp;000 m², reached a depth of 240 m and yielded 3 tons of diamonds. The mine was closed in 1914, while three of the holes – Du Toitspan, Wesselton and Bultfontein – closed down in 2005.The city housed South Africa's first stock exchange, the Kimberley Royal Stock Exchange, which opened on 2 February 1881.On 2 September 1882, Kimberley became the first town in the southern hemisphere to install electric street lighting.The rising importance of Kimberley led to one of the earliest South African and International Exhibitions to be staged in Kimberley in 1892. It was opened by Sir Henry Loch, the then Governor of the Cape of Good Hope on the 8th of September. It presented exhibits of art, an exhibition of paintings from the royal collection of Queen Victoria and mining machinery and implements amongst other items. The exhibition aroused considerable interest at international level, which resulted in a competition for display space.]] South Africa's first school of mines was opened here in 1896 and later relocated to Johannesburg, becoming the core of the University of the Witwatersrand. In fact the first two years were attended at colleges elsewhere in Cape Town, Grahamstown or Stellenbosch, the third year in Kimberley and the fourth year in Johannesburg. Buildings were constructed against a total cost of 9,000 pounds with De Beers contributing on a pound for pound basis.On 14 October 1899, Kimberley was besieged at the beginning of the Second Boer War. The British forces trying to relieve the siege suffered heavy losses. The siege was only lifted on 15 February 1900, but the war continued until May 1902. By that time, the British had built a concentration camp at Kimberley to house Boer women and children.&lt;/ref&gt;In 1913, South Africa's first flying school opened at Kimberley and started training the pilots of the South African Aviation Corps, later the South African Air Force.Modern DayKimberley Mine MuseumToday, the Kimberley Mine Museum, situated next to the Big hole, is an important tourist attraction that houses a rich collection of articles and information from the early days of the city.Pride of place is Cecil John Rhodes's grand railway carriage that carried him as governor of the Cape of Good Hope to the Rhodesia that he created. Also at the mine museum is the first house built in the developing Kimberley, as well as the first church.Barney Barnato, Cecil John Rhodes's partner in the developing De Beers, had a boxing academy. This academy sits alongside the Rhodes rail carriage. On its walls is the framed original cheque signed by Cecil John Rhodes and Barney Barnato for £4,5 million pounds to establish the De Beers Consolidated mines.SportKimberley has a rich history of sport. In 1965, Karen Muir became the youngest person to break a world record in any sport. This age group record stands to this day.Swimming in South Africa. Last accessed 2008-04-12 She set it in August 1965 at the junior world champions in Blackpool, England in the  backstroke at the age of 12. She went on to break many more world records but was denied a role in world swimming when she lost the opportunity to represent her country at the 1968 Olympic games in Mexico City as a result of South Africa being excluded due to its racial apartheid policies. Kimberley also saw a world record broken in the municipal pool which now bears Karen Muir's name. It was Johannesburg's Anne Fairlie who beat Karen Muir and Frances Kikki Caron in world record breaking time.  Kimberley has contributed to much of cricket's history having supplied several international players. There was Nipper Nickelson, Xenophon Balascas born in Kimberley to Greek parents and Ken Viljoen, Ronnie Draper and in more recent times Pat Symcox and the Proteas coach Micky Arthur.The first international rugby test was played at the Kimberley Athletic Club ground, known as the KAC. Frank Dobbin known as Uncle Dobbin was a member of Paul Roos's original Springboks in the tour to England in 1906/1907. His memory lives in his old colonial-style home in Roper street, bearing a simple brass plaque with the name 'Dobbin'. Later Springboks to wear green and gold included Ian Kirkpatrick, Tommy Bedford and Gawie Visagie, brother of Ammosal-based Springbok flyhalf Piet Visagie.Brian Davis, son of civic leader Edgar Davis, was part of the 4x400 metres relay which won a gold medal at the Rome Olympics.Ester Nell and Joan Carter won gold medals at the Olympics and Empire Games in the high jump.Cycling had Joe Billet and Steve Viljoen, while Harold Clarke ran the mile at the Empire Games at Helsinki. Elsie McDonald was a Springbok bowler.Kimberley has proposed the new Kimberley Stadium to be built in May 2007 for the 2010 Football World Cup but the proposal was not chosen as one of the ten venues for the tournament. ]]OtherThe McGregor Museum, which celebrated its centenary in 2007, houses a wealth of knowledge about the history and ecology of the Northern Cape.Kamfers Dam to the north of the town is an important wetland containing a breeding colony of Lesser Flamingos. Conservation initiatives in the area aim to bring people from the city in touch with its wildlife.See alsoReferencesExternal linksOfficial homepageGoogle Maps view of KimberleyThe Kimberley Exhibition of 1892&quot;Diamond Mines of South Africa&quot; by Gardner Williams (General manager De Beers), Chapter 15 (25 page history + images).The McGregor MuseumGriquas RugbyThe Kimberley Mine Museum Category:Settlements established in 1866 Category:Cities, towns and villages in the Northern Cape Category:Kimberleyaf:Kimberley bg:Кимбърли (РЮА) cs:Kimberley da:Kimberley (Sydafrika) de:Kimberley (Südafrika) es:Kimberley fa:کیمبرلی (آفریقای جنوبی) fr:Kimberley (Afrique du Sud) ko:킴벌리 (남아프리카 공화국) id:Kimberley, Afrika Selatan it:Kimberley (Sudafrica) sw:Kimberley (Afrika Kusini) la:Kimberley (Africa Australis) lt:Kimberlis nl:Kimberley (Zuid-Afrika) ja:キンバリー no:Kimberley i Sør-Afrika pl:Kimberley (RPA) pt:Kimberley ro:Kimberley ru:Кимберли (ЮАР) fi:Kimberley (Etelä-Afrikka) sv:Kimberley, Sydafrika tr:Kimberley