The Sable Antelope (Hippotragus niger) is an antelope which inhabits wooded savannah in East Africa south of Kenya, and in Southern Africa.SubspeciesThere are three subspecies:H. n. niger which is considered low risk conservation dependentH. n. varani (Giant Sable Antelope) of central Angola which is classified as critically endangeredH. n. kirkii (Zambian Sable Antelope) of central Angola and western Zambia and is classified as vulnerableDescriptionThe Sable Antelope stands 120 to 140 centimetres at the shoulder and weigh 200 to 270 kilograms, males being larger than females. Female Sable Antelope are chestnut to dark brown darkening as they mature while males are very distinctively black. Both sexes have a white underbelly, white cheeks and a white chin. They have a shaggy mane on the back of their neck. Sable antelope have ringed horns which arch backward, in females these can reach a meter, but in males they can reach over one and a half meters.Ecology and behaviorSable Antelope live in wooded savannah where they eat mid-length grass and leaves. They are diurnal but are less active during the heat of the day. Sable Antelope form herds of ten to thirty females and calves led by a single male. Sable Antelope males will fight among themselves; they drop to their knees and use their horns.MiscellaneousThe sable antelope was one of the national emblems of Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe).The sable antelope was also introduced into Texas as game in private ranches.Gallery Image:Sableantelope San Diego Zoo.jpg|A female sable antelope at the San Diego Zoo Image:Zambian Sable Antelope.jpg|A Zambian Sable Antelope ReferencesExternal linksARKive - [http://www.arkive.org/species/GES/mammals/Hippotragus_niger/ images and movies of the sable antelope (Hippotragus niger)]Sable Behaviorhttp://wildlife-nature.com/sabletxt.htmCategory:Grazing antelopes Category:Mammals of Africa Category:National symbols of Zimbabwe Category:Fauna of South Africa Category:Fauna of East Africa Category:Mammals of Kenya Category:Fauna of Tanzania Category:Fauna of Angola Category:Fauna of the Democratic Republic of the Congo Category:Fauna of Zambia Category:Megafauna of Africacs:Antilopa vraná de:Rappenantilope es:Hippotragus niger fr:Hippotrague noir it:Hippotragus niger lt:Juodoji antilopė hu:Fekete lóantilop ms:Antelop Sabel nl:Sabelantilope pl:Antylopa szabloroga pt:Palanca-negra fi:Mustahevosantilooppi sv:Sabelantilop zh:黑马羚