  thumb|250px|Haribo production site in [[Uzes, France]] Haribo is a confectionery producer, founded in 1920 in Germany by Hans Riegel Sr. The company headquarters are in Bonn and the name is an acronym for 'Ha'ns 'Ri'egel, 'Bo'nn.After Hans Riegel Sr. died during World War II, his son, also named Hans Riegel, took over the company. Haribo expanded its operations taking over many local sweet manufacturers in countries all over the world.Today, Haribo is the biggest manufacturer of gummi and jelly sweets in the world, with its products mainly consisting of gummi bears, other gummi candies and liquorice. There are five factories in Germany and 13 throughout the rest of Europe. There are sales offices in almost every country in Europe as well as in the United States.Haribo is one of the many German companies which is alleged to have employed forced labour in its factories during World War II. Haribo disputes this, and has declined to contribute to an ex-gratia payment made by other German companies to survivors.The Final Reckoning Time, 31 July 2000Haribo's German catch phrase is "Haribo macht Kinder froh / und Erwachsene ebenso", which is translated as "Haribo makes children happy / and adults too". The voice of Thomas Gottschalk has been connected with the Haribo advertisements since 1991.In English, to preserve the rhyme, it becomes "Kids and grown-ups love it so / the happy world of Haribo", whilst in French the slogan translates as "Haribo, c'est beau la vie / pour les grands et les petits", and in Italian as "Haribo è la bontà / che si gusta ad ogni età". In Spanish it is "Haribo, dulces sabores / para pequeños y mayores" and in Dutch it is "Haribo maakt kinderen blij / volwassenen horen ook daarbij". In Danish the catch phrase is different from the other countries, "Luk op for noget godt, luk op for Haribo - Den er go'" which translates into "open up for something good, open up for Haribo - it's good".Haribo's key brands in the UK are Starmix, Tangfastics, Supermix and Strawbs. Haribo UK is the distributor of PEZ products in the United Kingdom. They have a factory in Pontefract in West Yorkshire. Haribo also make Pontefract Cakes at these premises and others.As for its presence in the US, Haribo had been imported into the United States for many years by German food importers and sold at German and other gourmet stores at "gourmet prices" mostly in bulk rather than in packages. However, in Germany, Haribo was not an exclusive gourmet product, but a mass market candy like jujubes or Lifesavers or Hershey's kisses. When Haribo of America was incorporated in the 1980's in Baltimore, Maryland, Haribo's gummi candies were introduced to the U.S. mass market: drugstores, grocery stores, discount stores, etc. The packaging was translated into English and package weights were adjusted to match U.S. candy wholesale price points to match that of U.S. packaged candy in the same size packages. A laydown bag was developed for the U.S. supermarket trade, instead of the hanging back commonly found in German supermarkets. A boxed product was developed for theaters.Once this was done and Haribo products in U.S. style packaging were introduced at confectionery and fancy food shows, Haribo became a popular item. Sales soared the first year and gummi-bears became so popular in the U.S. that Haribo in Germany could not supply enough product, so soon the U.S. market was flooded with German competitors like Trolli, Black Forest and other brands. While Haribo could have been the market leader because of its quality and fresh fruit flavors, and a major force in the U.S. market, because of the supply issues, it remained one of several gummi-bear brands in the market.The Landesmuseum Koblenz (Germany) created a travelling exhibition about the history of Haribo in 2006.ReferencesExternal linksOfficial websiteCategory:Food companies of Germany Category:Brand name confectionery Category:German brandsca:Haribo cs:Haribo da:Haribo de:Haribo el:Χάριμπο es:Haribo fr:Haribo ko:하리보 nl:Haribo ja:ハリボー pl:Haribo fi:Haribo sv:Haribo tr:Haribo