Paul Naim Berg (born June 30, 1926 in Brooklyn, New York, U.S.) is an American biochemist and professor emeritus at Stanford University. He graduated from Abraham Lincoln High School in 1943, received his B.S. in biochemistry from Penn State University in 1948 and Ph.D. in biochemistry from Case Western Reserve University in 1952. In 1980 he shared half of the Nobel Prize for Chemistry with the team of Walter Gilbert and Frederick Sanger. All three were recognized for their important contributions to basic research in nucleic acids. His studies as a postgraduate involved the use of radioisotope tracers in intermediary metabolism. This resulted in the understanding of how foodstuffs are converted to cellular materials, through the use of isotopic carbons or heavy nitrogen atoms. Paul Berg's doctorate paper is now known as the conversion of formic acid, formaldehyde and methanol to fully reduced states of methyl groups in methionine. He was also one of the first to demonstrate that folic acid and B12 cofactors had roles in the processes mentioned.Berg is Professor Emeritus at Stanford and ceased conducting research in 2000 Faculty &amp; Researcher Profiles - Stanford University Medical Center&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;. He is also currently the Chairman of Whitehead Institute Board of Advisory Scientists at the Massachusetts Institute of Technologyhttp://nobelprize.org/nobel_prizes/chemistry/laureates/1980/berg-cv.html.Prof. Berg is a member of the Board of Sponsors of The Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists http://www.thebulletin.org. He was also an organizer of the Asilomar conference on recombinant DNA in 1975. The previous year, Berg and other scientists had called for a voluntary moratorium on certain recombinant DNA research until they could evaluate the risks. That influential conference did evaluate the potential hazards and set guidelines for biotechnology research. It can be seen as an early application of the precautionary principle.Berg was also awarded the National Medal of Science in 1983, by Ronald Reagan.ReferencesExternal linksPaul Berg narrating "Protein Synthesis: An Epic on the Cellular Level" at Google VideoCurriculum vitae from the Nobel Prize website2001 article about Berg from a Stanford University websitehttp://nobelprize.org/chemistry/laureates/1980/berg-autobio.html from the Nobel Prize websitehttp://nobelprize.org/chemistry/laureates/1980/berg-interview.ram from the Nobel Prize websiteCarl Sagan Prize for Science Popularization award recipient, Wonderfest 2006.Research resourcesPaul Berg Papers, 1953-1986 (65 linear ft.) are housed in the Department of Special Collections and University Archives at Stanford University Libraries  Category:1926 births Category:Members of the National Academy of Sciences Category:Living people Category:People from Brooklyn Category:American biochemists Category:American Jews Category:Jewish American scientists Category:Nobel laureates in Chemistry Category:National Medal of Science laureates Category:Members of the Pontifical Academy of Sciences Category:Penn State University alumni Category:HIV/AIDS researchers Category:Foreign Members of the Royal Society Category:Members of the French Academy of Sciencesar:بول برغ ca:Paul Berg cs:Paul Berg de:Paul Berg es:Paul Berg fr:Paul Berg gd:Paul Berg id:Paul Berg it:Paul Berg he:פול ברג sw:Paul Berg nl:Paul Berg ja:ポール・バーグ oc:Paul Berg pl:Paul Berg pt:Paul Berg ro:Paul Berg sl:Paul Berg fi:Paul Berg sv:Paul Berg zh:保羅·伯格