 |place_birth =Shawnee, Oklahoma |place_death =Ventura, California |occupation =Test Pilot |rank =Colonel, USAF |selection =1959 NASA Group |time =222h |mission =Mercury 9 (Faith 7), Gemini 5 |insignia = Leroy Gordon Cooper, Jr., also noted as Gordo Cooper, (6 March 1927 – 4 October 2004) was an American astronaut. Cooper was one of the seven original astronauts in Project Mercury, the first manned-space effort by the United States. He flew the longest spaceflight of the Mercury project, was the first American to sleep in orbit and has been noted as the last American (thus far) to launch alone into earth orbit and conduct an entire solo orbital mission.Early yearsCooper was born in Shawnee, Oklahoma. He grew up there and in Murray, Kentucky where he attended public schools. He was active in the Boy Scouts of America and achieved the second highest rank of Life Scout. Cooper served in the Marine Corps in 1945 and 1946, then received an Army commission after completing three years of coursework at the University of Hawaii. Cooper met his first wife Trudy (the only wife of a Mercury astronaut with a private pilot's license) while in Hawaii and they married in 1947. Cooper transferred his commission to the Air Force in 1949, was placed on active duty and received flight training at Perrin AFB, Texas and Williams AFB, Arizona.Cooper's first flight assignment came in 1950 at Landstuhl, West Germany where he flew F-84 Thunderjets and F-86 Sabres for four years. While in Germany he also attended the European Extension of the University of Maryland. Returning to the United States, he studied for two years at the Air Force Institute of Technology in Ohio and in 1957 completed his bachelor's degree in aerospace engineering. Cooper was then assigned to the Experimental Flight Test School at Edwards Air Force Base in California and after graduation was posted to the Flight Test Engineering Division at Edwards where he served as a test pilot and project manager testing the F-102A and F-106B.Gray, Tara, L. Gordon Cooper, Jr., history.nasa.gov, retrieved 20 January 2008 Cooper logged more than 7,000 hours of flight time, with 4,000 hours in jet aircraft. He flew all types of commercial and general aviation airplanes and helicopters.Astronautbroadcast from Faith 7]]Mercury programWhile at Edwards, Cooper was intrigued to read an announcement saying a contract had been awarded to McDonnell Aircraft in St. Louis, Missouri to build a space capsule. Shortly after this he was called to Washington, D.C. for a NASA briefing on Project Mercury and the part astronauts would play in it. Cooper went through the selection process with the other 109 pilots and was not surprised when he was accepted as one of the first seven American astronauts.Each of the Mercury astronauts was assigned to a different portion of the project along with other special assignments. Cooper specialized in the Redstone rocket (and developed a personal survival knife for astronauts to carry). He also chaired the Emergency Egress Committee, responsible for working out emergency launch pad procedures for escape. Cooper served as capsule communicator (CAPCOM) for John Glenn's first orbital spaceflight in Mercury-Atlas 6 (Friendship 7) and Scott Carpenter's flight on Mercury-Atlas 7 (Aurora 7). He was backup pilot for Wally Schirra in Mercury-Atlas 8 (Sigma 7).Cooper was launched into space on 15 May 1963 aboard the Mercury-Atlas 9 (Faith 7) spacecraft, the last Mercury mission. He orbited the earth 22 times and logged more time in space than all five previous Mercury astronauts combined – 34 hours, 19 minutes and 49 seconds, traveling 546,167 miles (878,971 km) at 17,547 mph (28,239 km/h), pulling a maximum of 7.6 ''g'' (74.48 m/s²). Cooper achieved an altitude of 165.9 statute miles (267 km) at apogee. He was the first American astronaut to sleep not only in orbit but on the launch pad during a countdown.Spam in a canLike all Mercury flights Faith 7 was designed for fully automatic control, a controversial engineering decision which in many ways reduced the role of an astronaut to that of a passenger and stirred Chuck Yeager to describe Mercury astronauts as spam in a can.Wolfe, Tom, The Right Stuff 1979 ISBN 978-0312427566Towards the end of the Faith 7 flight there were mission-threatening technical problems. During the 19th orbit the capsule had a power failure, carbon dioxide levels began rising and the cabin temperature jumped to over a hundred degrees. Cooper fell back on his understanding of star patterns, took manual control of the tiny capsule and successfully estimated the correct pitch for re-entry into the atmosphere. Some precision was needed in the calculation since if the capsule came in too deep it would burn up and if its trajectory was too shallow it would bounce off the atmosphere into space. Cooper drew lines on the capsule window to help him check his orientation before firing the re-entry rockets. "So I used my wrist watch for time," he later recalled, "my eyeballs out the window for attitude. Then I fired my retrorockets at the right time and landed right by the carrier."space.com, Gordon Cooper Touts New Book Leap of Faith, 30 July 2000, retrieved 20 January 2008Wagener, Leon, One Giant Leap, Forge Books, 2004 ISBN 978-0312873431 Cooper's cool-headed performance and piloting skills led to a basic rethinking of design philosophy for later space missions.GeminiTwo years later (21 August 1965) Cooper flew as command pilot of Gemini 5 on an eight-day, 120-orbit mission with Pete Conrad. The two astronauts established a new space endurance record by traveling a distance of 3,312,993 miles (5,331,745 km) in 190 hours and 56 minutes, showing astronauts could survive in space for the length of time necessary to go from the earth to the moon and back. Cooper was the first astronaut to make a second orbital flight and later served as backup command pilot for Gemini 12.Retirement from astronaut corpsCooper was selected as backup commander for Apollo 10 and was scheduled to fly to the moon as commander of Apollo 13. However, after a falling-out with NASA management, Alan Shepard was chosen instead (Shepard's crew was later moved onto Apollo 14 and the Apollo 13 command went to Jim Lovell). Having flown 222 hours in space, Cooper retired from NASA and the Air Force on 31 July 1970 as a colonel.Later yearsAfter leaving NASA, Cooper served on several corporate boards and as technical consultant for more than a dozen companies in fields ranging from high performance boat design to energy, construction and aircraft design. During the 1970s, he worked for The Walt Disney Company as a vice-president of research and development for Epcot.After divorcing his first wife Trudy, Cooper married Suzan Taylor in 1972. He had four daughters, Camala Keoki (Cooper) Tharpe and Janita Lee (Cooper) Stone (both from his first marriage) along with Elizabeth Jo and Colleen Taylor (from his second marriage).Cooper received an honorary doctorate of science degree from Oklahoma State University in 1967. His autobiography, Leap of Faith (ISBN 0-06-019416-2), co-authored by Bruce B. Henderson, recounted his experiences with the Air Force and NASA along with his efforts to expose an alleged UFO conspiracy theory. Cooper was also a major contributor to the book In the Shadow of the Moon (published after his death) which offered Cooper's final published thoughts on his life and career.UFO claimsCooper claimed to have seen his first UFO while flying over West Germany in 1951, although he denied reports he had seen a UFO during his Mercury flight.Martin, Robert Scott, Gordon Cooper: No Mercury UFO, space.com, 10 September 1999, retrieved 20 January 2008In 1957, when Cooper was 30 and a captain, he was assigned to Fighter Section of the Experimental Flight Test Engineering Division at Edwards Air Force Base in California. He acted as a test pilot and project manager. On May 3 of that year, he had a crew setting up an Askania-camera precision landing system on a dry lake bed. This camera system would take pictures at one frame per second as an aircraft landed. The crew consisted of James Bittick And Jack Gettys who began work at the site just before 0800, using both still and motion picture cameras. According to his accounts, later that morning they returned to report to Cooper that they saw a "strange-looking saucer" like aircraft that did not make a sound either on landing or take off.According to his accounts, Cooper realized that these men, who on a regular basis have seen experimental aircraft flying and landing around them as part of their job of filming those aircraft, were clearly worked up and unnerved. They explained how the saucer hovered over them, landed 50 yards away from them using three extended landing gears and then took off as they approached for a closer look. Being photographers with cameras in hand, they of course shot images with 35mm and 4-by-5 still cameras as well as motion film. There was a special Pentagon number to call to report incidents like this. He called and it immediately went up the chain of command until he was instructed by a general to have the film developed (but to make no prints of it) and send it right away in a locked courier pouch. As he hadn't been instructed to NOT look at the negatives before sending them, he did. He said the quality of the photography was excellent as would be expected from the experienced photographers who took them. What he saw was exactly what they had described to him. He did not see the movie film before everything was sent away. He expected that there would be a follow up investigation since an aircraft of unknown origin had landed in a highly classified military installation, but nothing was ever said of the incident again. He was never able to track down what happened to those photos. He assumed that they ended up going to the Air Force's official UFO investigation, Project Blue Book, which was based at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base.He held claim until his death that the government is indeed covering up information about UFOs. He gives the example of President Harry Truman who said on April 4, 1950, "I can assure you that flying saucers, given that they exist, are not constructed by any power on Earth." He also pointed out that there were hundreds of reports made by his fellow pilots, many coming from military jet pilots sent to respond to radar or visual sightings from the ground. He was quite convinced till the day he died that he had seen UFOs and was a strong advocate to make the government come clean with what it knew. http://www.space.com/news/spaceagencies/gordon_ufos_000728.htmlIn his memoirs Cooper wrote he had seen other unexplained aircraft several times during his career and also said hundreds of similar reports had been made, often by military jet pilots responding to radar or visual sightings from the ground. He further claimed these sightings had been "swept under the rug" by the US government. Throughout his later life Cooper expressed repeatedly in interviews he had seen extra-terrestrial crafts and described his recollections for the documentary ''Out of the Blue''.DeathCooper developed Parkinson's disease late in life and at age 77 died from heart failure at his home in Ventura, California on October 4, 2004, which was also the 47th anniversary of the Sputnik 1 launch and the same day SpaceShipOne made its second official qualifying flight and won the Ansari X-Prize.Memorial spaceflightsOn 29 April 2007 Cooper's ashes (along with those of Star Trek actor James Doohan and 206 others) were launched from New Mexico on a sub-orbital memorial flight by a privately owned UP Aerospace SpaceLoft XL sounding rocket. Although the capsule carrying the ashes fell back earthward as planned it was lost in mountainous landscape. The search was thwarted by bad weather but after a few weeks the capsule was found and the ashes it carried were returned to the families.uk.reuters.com, Ashes of &quot;Star Trek's&quot; Scotty found after space ride, 18 May 2007, retrieved 20 January 2008Sherriff, Lucy, Scotty: ashes located and heading home, 22 May 2007, retrieved 20 January 2008 The ashes were then launched on the Explorers orbital mission (3 August 2008) but were lost when the Falcon 1 rocket failed two minutes into the flight.NASASpaceflight.com - SpaceX Falcon I FAILS during first stage flightAwards and decorationsCooper received many awards including the Air Force Legion of Merit, the Distinguished Flying Cross with oak leaf clusters, the NASA Exceptional Achievement Medal, the Collier Trophy, the Harmon Trophy, the DeMolay Legion of Honor, the John F. Kennedy Trophy, the Iven C. Kincheloe Award, the University of Hawaii Regents Medal and the Columbus Medal. He was a Master Mason (member of Carbondale Lodge 82 in Carbondale, Colorado) and a 33rd Degree Scottish Rite Mason.Cooper was a member of several groups and societies including the Society of Experimental Test Pilots, the American Astronautical Society, Scottish Rite, York Rite, Shriners, Rotary Club, Order of Daedalians, Confederate Air Force and Boy Scouts of America.Gordon Cooper Technology Center in Shawnee, Oklahoma is named after Cooper.Cultural influenceCooper's accomplishments (along with his widely noted and appealing personality) were depicted in the 1983 film The Right Stuff in which he was portrayed by actor Dennis Quaid. Cooper worked closely with the production company on this project and reportedly, every line uttered by Quaid is attributable to Cooper's recollection. Quaid met with Cooper before the casting call and rapidly learned his mannerisms. Quaid also had his hair cut and dyed to match how the former astronaut's hair looked during the 1950s and 1960s. Cooper was later depicted in the 1998 HBO series From the Earth to the Moon, in which his character was played by Robert C. Treveiler. Cooper appeared as himself in an episode of the television series CHiPs and during the early 1980s made regular call in appearances on Late Night with David Letterman. The Thunderbirds character Gordon Tracy was named after him.Quotes(This expression about the high level of funding needed for spaceflight was popular among test pilots and astronauts in the United States during the late 1950s and early 1960s)References and notesExternal linksNASA biography for 40th Anniversary of Mercury 7Johnson Space Center biographySpacefacts biographyRemembering 'Gordo' – NASA memories of Gordon CooperInterview with Cooper about UFOs and aliens (with much added speculation)Space.com article, Pioneering Astronaut Sees UFO Cover-upGordon Cooper Technology Center  Category:American astronauts Category:American aviators Category:Space burials Category:People from Pottawatomie County, Oklahoma Category:People from Murray, Kentucky Category:People with Parkinson's disease Category:United States Air Force officers Category:1927 births Category:2004 deaths Category:Recipients of the Legion of Merit Category:Recipients of US Distinguished Flying Cross Category:Air Force Institute of Technology alumni Category:Deaths from Parkinson's disease Category:U.S. Astronaut Hall of Fame Inductees Category:University of Hawaii alumni Category:Test pilotszh-min-nan:Gordon Cooper ca:Gordon Cooper cs:Leroy Cooper de:Gordon Cooper es:Gordon Cooper fr:Gordon Cooper it:LeRoy Gordon Cooper lb:Gordon Cooper hu:Gordon Cooper nl:Leroy Cooper ja:ゴードン・クーパー no:Gordon Cooper pl:Gordon Cooper pt:Gordon Cooper ru:Купер, Лерой Гордон sk:Leroy Gordon Cooper sl:Leroy Gordon Cooper fi:Gordon Cooper sv:L. Gordon Cooper zh:戈尔登·库勃