  Billy Rose in Westchester Hills Cemetery]] A mausoleum (plural: mausolea) is an external free-standing building constructed as a monument enclosing the interment space or burial chamber of a deceased person or persons. A mausoleum may be considered a type of tomb or the tomb may be considered to be within the mausoleum. A Christian mausoleum sometimes includes a chapel.The word derives from the Mausoleum of Maussollos (near modern-day Bodrum in Turkey), the grave of King Mausollos, the Persian satrap of Caria, whose large tomb was one of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World.Historically, mausolea were, and still may be, large and impressive constructions for a deceased leader or other person of importance. However, smaller mausolea soon became popular with the gentry and nobility in many countries. In the Roman Empire, these were often ranged in necropoleis or along roadsides: the via Appia Antica retains the ruins of many private mausolea for miles outside Rome. However, the practice fell out of use when Christianity became dominant.Paul Veyne, in A History of Private Life: I. From Pagan Rome to Byzantium, Veyne, ed. (Harvard University Press) 1987:416.Later, mausolea became particularly popular in Europe and her colonies during the early modern and modern periods. These are usually small buildings with walls, a roof and sometimes a door for additional interments or visitor access. A single mausoleum may be permanently sealed. A mausoleum encloses a burial chamber either wholly above ground or within a burial vault below the superstructure. This contains the body or bodies, probably within sarcophagi or interment niches. Modern mausolea may also act as columbaria (a type of mausoleum for cremated remains) with additional cinerary urn niches. Mausolea may be located in a cemetery, a churchyard or on private land.In the United States, the term may be used for a burial vault below a larger facility, such as a church. The Cathedral of Our Lady of the Angels in Los Angeles, California, for example, has 6,000 sepulchral and cinerary urn spaces for interments in the lower level of the building. It is known as the 'crypt mausoleum'.Notable mausolea, in Agra, India is the world's most famous and most photographed Mausoleum.]] , St. Louis, Missouri]]  in Key West (rural Dubuque), Iowa. This mausoleum has a traditional mausoleum burial vault as well as columbarium style niches for cremated remains.]]Main article: List of mausolea.The MastabaThe Mausoleum of Khomeini in Tehran, IranThe pyramids of ancient Egypt, Nubia and China are also types of mausolea.Mausoleum of the First Qin Emperor biggest underground mausoleumMausoleum of Maussollos at HalicarnassasMausoleum of Galla PlacidiaTaj Mahal at Agra, IndiaAnitkabir mausoleum of Ataturk the founder of the Republic of Turkey at Ankara, TurkeyTomb of JahangirMazar-e-Quaid at Karachi, PakistanRoyal Mausoleum and the Duchess of Kent's Mausoleum at Frogmore, EnglandGrant's Tomb, New York City - a reduced-scale version of Mausolos' original mausoleum.Hamilton Mausoleum at Hamilton in ScotlandAbraham Lincoln's tomb in Springfield, IllinoisLenin's Mausoleum in Moscow, Russia.Quezon Memorial, in Quezon City, Philippines, houses the remains of Philippine President Manuel Quezon and his wife Aurora.Miles Mausoleum in Arlington National CemeteryAstana Giribangun Suharto family complex in traditional Javanese architectural style in Karanganyar, Central JavaArgosari the peak of the Astana Giribangun complex alleged to be final resting place of legendary Javanese leader Raden Mas Samboernowo (aka Raden Mas Said),Imogiri complex in Imogiri, Central Java is the cemetery for Majapahit royals and the Hamengkubuwana Royals of YogyakartaQianling Mausoleum in China, houses the remains of Emperor Gaozong of Tang and the ruling Empress Wu Zetian, along with 17 others in auxiliary tombs.SourcesExternal linksMausolea and Monuments Trust, gazetteer of mausolea in England*ar:ضريح bg:Мавзолей ca:Mausoleu cs:Mauzoleum co:Musuleu da:Mausoleum de:Mausoleum et:Mausoleum el:Μαυσωλείο es:Mausoleo eo:Maŭzoleo fr:Mausolée fy:Mausoleum hr:Mauzolej is:Leghöll it:Mausoleo he:מאוזוליאום lt:Mauzoliejus ms:Makam nl:Mausoleum ja:廟 no:Mausoleum nrm:Maûsolée pl:Mauzoleum pt:Mausoléu ru:Мавзолей simple:Mausoleum sk:Mauzóleum sr:Маузолеј fi:Mausoleumi sv:Mausoleum