 |website = www.arlanda.com |metric-rwy = yes |r1-number = 01L/19R |r1-length-f = 10,830 |r1-length-m = 3,301 |r1-surface = Concrete |r2-number = 01R/19L |r2-length-f = 8,201 |r2-length-m = 2,500 |r2-surface = Asphalt |r3-number = 08/26 |r3-length-f = 8,202 |r3-length-m = 2,500 |r3-surface = Concrete |stat-year = 2007 |stat1-header = Passengers total |stat1-data = 17,877,913 |stat2-header = International passengers |stat2-data = 12,841,955 |stat3-header = Domestic passengers |stat3-data = 5,035,958 |footnotes = Source: DAFIF Stockholm-Arlanda Airport , is an international airport located in the Sigtuna Municipality of Sweden, near the town of Märsta, about 42km north of Stockholm and nearly 40km, by road, south-east of Uppsala. By rail the distance from Uppsala is considerably shorter, while the rail distance to and from Stockholm's centre is comparable to that of the road.The airport is located within Stockholm County and the province of Uppland. It is the largest airport in Sweden – in 2006 the third largest airport in the Nordic countries – and had 17.91 million passengers in 2007.Trafik och statistik - LFV&lt;!--Bot-generated title--&gt; It is also one of three major hubs of Scandinavian Airlines System.HistoryThe airport was first used in 1959, but only for practice flights. In 1960, it opened for general traffic, and in 1962 the official opening ceremony took place. It was used for intercontinental traffic already in 1960 since the runway of Bromma was too short. The name Arlanda was decided after a competition prior to the airport opening. It is derived from Arland, an old name for the parish Ärlinghundra (now Husby-Ärlinghundra in Märsta) where the airport is situated. The '-a' was added in analogy with other Swedish place names ending with -landa, and also makes the name a pun on the Swedish verb "landa", which means "to land". Terminal 5 is the original terminal.In 1983 the domestic traffic moved from Bromma to Arlanda, using the newly built terminal now known as Terminal 4. In 1990 two new domestic terminals called "Domestic 2 and 3" were built south of the first domestic terminal. In 1992 the terminal 2 was partly abandoned because of traffic decrease. It started to be used for international traffic the year after, and the main domestic and international terminals are renumbered into 4 and 5. The third runway was built 1998-2002. Due to low passenger figures in 2002 it wasn't used until 2003, at which time protests were raised by people living under its flight path.Airport layoutThe airport has four terminals with a total of 64 gates. Terminals 2 and 5 are used for international flights. Domestic flights are in terminal 3 and Terminal 4. The new central building, Arlanda North, opened late 2003, connecting terminal 5 with the newly built Pier F. All international flights handled by SAS and its Star Alliance partners use the new central building. An Arlanda South building, connecting terminals 2, 3 and 4, was also planned, but construction is currently suspended due to lack of funds. Between terminals 4 and 5 is the shopping centre Sky City, which also has a main line railway station. Furthermore, the Arlanda Express trains connect two stations at the airport with Stockholm. The airport has a capacity of about 25 million passengers per year.Arlanda has three runways: Runway 1 (01L-19R), Runway 2 (08-26), Runway 3 (01R-19L). Runway 1 is 3300 m long and can handle take-offs and landings of the heaviest aircraft in use today. Runways 2 and 3 are 2500 m long. As indicated, runways 1 and 3 are parallel runways that can be operated independently of one another. Runway 3 is equipped with CAT III for instrument landings. The airport administration claims to be world-leading at clearing snow from the runways. Arlanda has a policy to never close due to snowfall.Snow removal - LFV&lt;!--Bot-generated title--&gt; Heavy snowfall can however cause long delays.Arlanda has 5 terminals for air cargo and 5 aircraft hangars. The number of aircraft parking places is approximately 100. Arlanda has been listed as one of the many emergency landing sites for NASA's Space ShuttleList of Space Shuttle emergency landing sites at GlobalSecurity.org (most likely on account of its relatively long main runway).Facilities35 stores33 restaurants3 hotels2 banks1 pharmacy1 chapelConference facilities49 conference rooms6,300 m² conference spaceExhibition hall for up to 1,000 delegatesLoungesFinnair Lounge, Terminal 2 (Oneworld Business/First Class passengers )Lounge Novia, Terminal 5 (Contract Lounge)SAS Business Lounge, Terminal 5 (Star Alliance/SAS Group Business/First Class passengers)SAS Scandinavian Lounge, Terminal 5 (Star Alliance/SAS Group Gold Card Holders)SAS Stockholm Lounge, Terminal 4 (Star Alliance/SAS Group Gold Card Holders)Ground transportationRail The fastest way to the airport from Stockholm Central Station is the Arlanda Express high-speed train service. The 20-minute train ride costs 220 SEK&lt;/ref&gt; for an adult and 110 SEK for under 25 year olds (make sure you ask for this as it won't necessarily be volunteered by staff) and can be combined with a taxi or use of the SL public transport system as a time efficient method of travel to the airport.Upptåget, operated by UL, is a commuter train service covering Upplands Väsby – Stockholm-Arlanda Airport – Uppsala – Gävle. The train takes about 19 minutes to Uppsala and 90 minutes to Gävle. The train departs every 30 minutes. The train costs 105 SEK to Uppsala and 180 SEK to Gävle. One can change in Upplands Väsby to commuter train to Stockholm, for a total price to Stockholm of 115 SEK, taking 35 min.Long-distance trains called Intercity or X2000 operated by SJ go to locations north of Stockholm-Arlanda Airport. A fee (75 SEK, normally included in the ticket price) is levied on arriving or departing passengers which use the underground railroad station. It is not allowed to use long-distance trains to go to the Stockholm Central Station.Hotel transferAirport ShuttleAirport shuttle provides transportation from Arlanda airport to hotels in Stockholm city. Airport Shuttle is a cheaper alternative compared to train and taxi since you share the shuttle with other travellers.The journey with AirportShuttle.se between Arlanda airport and Stockholm city costs 150 SEK and takes between 30-70 minutes depending on traffic. They guarantee it will not take more than 70 minutes.BusFlygbussarnaFlygbussarna offer airport coaches to and from the airport which stop at several locations in northern Stockholm County as well as Stockholm City Centre. From the downtown city terminal Flygbussarna offers a connecting coach to Stockholm-Bromma Airport which in addition to Stockholm-Arlanda Airport caters to domestic and international travel. Flygbussarna also has coaches which connect to Stockholm-Skavsta Airport which caters to low-cost airlines like Ryanair.The journey with Flygbussarna between Stockholm central bus terminal and Stockholm-Arlanda Airport costs 110 SEK&lt;/ref&gt; and takes about 40 minutes, longer in rush hour.SL bus and commuter railThe cheapest way to travel to and from Stockholm-Arlanda Airport is by using SL bus lines 583 or 583X which travel between the airport and Märsta station where a commuter train connects with Stockholm Central Station. The travelling time from the airport to the Stockholm Central Station is about 60 minutes (of which about 18 minutes by bus, 6 minutes transit at Märsta station, 36 minutes by train).Note that when travelling by SL buses the tickets must be purchased beforehand as it is not possible to purchase them on the bus. Pre-paid tickets are sold at the convenience stores operated by Pressbyrån and 7-Eleven inside the terminals and Sky City. The trip to central Stockholm requires four zone tickets, which costs 52 SEK&lt;/ref&gt; with pre-paid tickets. Just the bus trip to Märsta station requires two tickets, which costs 26 SEK with pre-paid tickets. See Public transport in Stockholm for a description of other ticket alternatives which may be a better option if one intends to utilise the public transport more than just for this single trip.Commuter trains operated by SJ to Stockholm Central Station and Uppsala also stop at Märsta station (Stockholm: 21 min, costs 50 SEK; Uppsala: 19 minutes, costs 50 SEK).UppsalaBuses operated by Upplands Lokaltrafik travel between Stockholm-Arlanda Airport and Uppsala (bus no. 801 and 802).TaxiThe other quick method of transportation between Stockholm-Arlanda Airport and locations in Stockholm or Uppsala is by taxi. All taxi companies are required to offer fixed prices when going from the airport, which takes away the guess-work of how much the fare will cost (one can still request use of the taxi meter). Most companies also offer fixed prices to the airport. Approximate cost is 450 kr for the 35–50 minute journey to central Stockholm (2005) and the taxi can take four passengers (more if one orders a larger taxi).Airport parkingTerminal parking, short-term and long-term parking is available at the airport. Parking rules are heavily enforced and parking fines constitute one source of revenue for Sigtuna municipality and the Airport Authority.Terminals, airlines and destinationsTerminal 2 International (Arlanda South)Air Berlin (Berlin-Tegel)Atlantic Airways (Faroe Islands seasonal)British Airways (London-Heathrow)EasyJet (Milan-Malpensa October 20, 2008, Geneva October 27, 2008)Finnair (Helsinki) Germanwings (Berlin-Schönefeld, Cologne/Bonn)Iberia (Madrid)Malev Hungarian Airlines (Budapest)Niki (Vienna)Norwegian Air Shuttle (Alicante,Belgrade, Bergen seasonal, Copenhagen, Geneva seasonal, Krakow, Malaga, Nice, Oslo, Paris-Orly, Tallinn seasonal, Warsaw)Departures only (Aleppo, Dubai October 27, 2008, Dubrovnik, Istanbul-Sabiha Gokcen, Sarajevo, Split) Arrivals see Terminal 5TAP Portugal (Lisbon)TUIfly (Hanover, Stuttgart)HistoryIn 1990 two new domestic terminals called "Domestic 2 and 3" were built south of the first domestic terminal. In 1992 the terminal 2 was partly abandoned because of traffic decrease. It started to be used for international traffic the year after, now named just "terminal 2".Terminal 3 Regional (Arlanda South)Nextjet (Arvidsjaur October 26, Gällivare, Hagfors, Hemavan October 26, Kramfors-Solleftea October 6, Lycksele October 26, Mora, Sveg, Torsby, Vilhelmina October 26)Skyways Express (Arvidsjaur, Halmstad, Hemavan, Jönköping, Karlstad, Kristianstad, Lycksele, Skellefteå, Trollhättan, Växjö, Visby)Skyways Express operated by Direktflyg (Borlänge, Oskarshamn, Linköping)HistoryTerminal 3 was built before 1990 for smaller planes. People walk outdoors from the gates and board the planes with airstairs.Terminal 4 Domestic (Arlanda South)Höga Kusten Flygoperated by Golden Air (Örnsköldsvik)Norwegian Air Shuttle (Kiruna, Luleå, Umeå)Scandinavian Airlines System (Ängelholm, Åre-Östersund, Gothenburg-Landvetter, Kalmar, Kiruna, Luleå, Malmö, Örnsköldsvik, Ronneby, Skellefteå, Sundsvall, Umeå)Sterling Airways (Gothenburg-Landvetter, Malmö)HistoryTerminal 4, formerly Inrikes 1 was originally designed for the Swedish domestic carrier Linjeflyg, and initiated in 1983. Linjeflyg and Scandinavian Airlines moved all operations from Stockholm-Bromma Airport to the new terminal at Arlanda in 1984. This was made to assemble the domestic and international departures between Scandinavian Airlines and Linjeflyg, but the terminal was unfortunately 25% underdimensioned from the beginning. For that reason Inrikes 2 was set up for SAS, who moved all domestic flights from Inrikes 1 to the new terminal in 1990.Because of a recession in Swedish economy SAS wanted to move back in 1992, and again the two carriers shared the terminal. Also in 1992 the terminal got a new name, Terminal 4. Since 1999 the terminal has had its own express station for high-speed trains, connecting the terminal with Stockholm Central Station and Terminal 5.The year 2006 marked Terminal 4:s first radical renovation program since it was completed in 1983Terminal 5 International (Arlanda North)Adria Airways (Ljubljana)Aeroflot (Moscow-Sheremetyevo)Aerosvit Airlines (Kiev-Boryspil)Air Åland (Mariehamn)airBaltic (Riga, Vilnius)Air China (Beijing)Air France (Paris-Charles de Gaulle)Arkia Israel Airlines (Tel Aviv seasonal)Austrian Airlines (Vienna)Austrian Arrows (Vienna)Blue1 (Vaasa, Tampere, Turku, Helsinki)Cimber Air (Billund)Continental Airlines (Newark)Czech Airlines (Prague)Delta Air Lines (Atlanta)Estonian Air (Tallinn)Estonian Air Regional (Tallinn, Kuressaare, Tartu autumn 2008)Ethiopian Airlines (Addis Ababa, Rome-Fiumicino)FlyLAL (Vilnius)Icelandair (Reykjavík-Keflavík)Iran Air (Tehran-Imam Khomeini)Jat Airways (Belgrade)KLM Royal Dutch Airlines (Amsterdam)LOT Polish Airlines (Warsaw)Lufthansa (Düsseldorf, Hamburg, Frankfurt, Munich)Malaysia Airlines (Kuala Lumpur, Newark)Norwegian Air Shuttle Arrivals only (Aleppo, Belgrade, Dubai October 27, 2008, Dubrovnik, Istanbul-Sabiha Gokcen, Sarajevo, Split) For departures see Terminal 2Qatar Airways (Doha)Rossiya (St. Petersburg)Scandinavian Airlines System (Amsterdam, Athens, Bangkok-Suvarnabhumi seasonal, Barcelona, Beijing, Bergen, Berlin-Tegel, Bristol seasonal, Brussels, Chicago-O'Hare, Copenhagen, Dublin, Düsseldorf, Edinburgh seasonal, Frankfurt, Geneva, Hamburg, Helsinki, Istanbul-Atatürk, Kittilä December 19, 2008, London-Heathrow, Malaga, Manchester, Milan-Linate, Milan-Malpensa, Moscow-Sheremetyevo, Munich, Newark, Nice, Oslo, Palma de Mallorca, Paris-Charles de Gaulle, Prague, Rome-Fiumicino, St. Petersburg, Split seasonal, Stavanger, Tromsø seasonal, Trondheim, Zagreb, Zürich)Scandinavian Airlines System operated by Transwede Airways (London-City)Skyways Express (Kuressare seasonal, Pärnu seasonal, Växjö)Spanair Barcelona, Madrid, Malaga seasonal, Palma de Mallorca seasonal)Sterling Airlines (Alicante, Amsterdam, Athens seasonal, Barcelona, Brussels, Budapest seasonal, Burgas, Chambéry, Chania, Copenhagen, East Midlands, Edinburgh, Faro, Florence, Gran Canaria seasonal, London-Gatwick, Malaga, Murcia, Naples, Nice, Palma de Mallorca seasonal, Prague seasonal, Rome-Fiumicino seasonal, Salzburg seasonal)SunExpress (Izmir)Swiss International Air Lines (Zürich)Syrian Arab Airlines (Aleppo, Damascus)Thai Airways International (Bangkok-Suvarnabhumi)Turkish Airlines (Ankara seasonal, Istanbul-Atatürk)US Airways (Philadelphia seasonal)Viking Airlines (Athens, Beirut, Thessaloniki)Terminal 5 CharterAir AdriaticAir EuropaAir FinlandTUIfly NordicFly AirFree Bird AirlinesJordan AviationMalmö AviationNordic LeisureNorwegian Air ShuttleNouvelair TunisiaNovairPegasus AirlinesScandinavian Airlines SystemSunExpressThomas Cook Airlines ScandinaviaNew destinations and airlines2008-10-20 Milan Malpensa, easyJeteasyJet till Arlanda i höst - ARLANDASE&lt;!--Bot-generated title--&gt;2008-10-26 Arvidsjaur, NextjetNextJet&lt;!--Bot-generated title--&gt;2008-10-26 Gällivare, Nextjet2008-10-26 Hemavan, Nextjet2008-10-26 Lycksele, Nextjet2008-10-26 Vilhelmina, Nextjet2008-10-27 Dubai, Norwegian Air ShuttleNorwegian Air Shuttle - Norwegian direkte til Dubai&lt;!--Bot-generated title--&gt;2008-10-27 Geneva, easyJeteasyJet.com - Route information and launch dates&lt;!--Bot-generated title--&gt;2008-12-19 Kittilä, Scandinavian AirlinesSAS timetable winter 08/09Cargo operatorsIn addition to being a busy passenger airport Stockholm-Arlanda is also a major cargo hub. Some of the operators include:British Airways World CargoCathay PacificChina AirlinesDHLFedExJade Cargo InternationalKorean Air CargoTNT AirwaysUPSWOW AllianceSAS Cargo GroupLufthansa CargoThere were 100,480 tonnes of air cargo passing Arlanda during 2007http://www.lfv.se/templates/LFV_InfoSida_70_30____36426.aspx Trafikstatistik från svenska flygplatser(swedish).EnvironmentThere is ongoing work to limit Arlanda's negative impact on the environment. Flying aircraft, airport facilities and traffic to and from the airport pollute all the immediate environment with emissions of noise and chemicals, and affect the global environment by emissions of greenhouse gases. In an effort to save electricity and reduce emissions of , buildings on Arlanda use district heating with biofuels and district cooling using water from a nearby lake. The take-off charges for aircraft are based on the environmental performance of the aircraft and Arlanda is experimenting with Continuous Descent Approach landings, often referred to as "green landings". Fuel for the aircraft is transported by rail and pipeline. The train to the plane service Arlanda Express was built in order to reduce pollution from traffic to and from the airport.Accidents, incidents and hijackings1 November 1969: A Linjeflyg Convair 440 registered as SE-BSU suffered an accident while being used for training purposes. After a simulated engine failure at take-off the left wing contacted the ground and the aircraft crash-landed after the nose and main landing gear collapsed. None of the four persons on board were killed, but the aircraft was written off.ASN Aircraft accident Convair CV-440-75 SE-BSU Stockholm-Arlanda Airport (ARN)&lt;!--Bot-generated title--&gt;' 5 January 1970:' A Spantax Convair 990 registered as EC-BNM on a ferry flight from Stockholm-Arlanda Airport to Zürich Airport (ZRH) crashed while climbing after take-off. The aircraft had been scheduled for a charter flight earlier in the day, but the flight was cancelled after the no. 4 engine developed trouble. The decision was made to ferry the aircraft using three engines to Zurich for repairs and the aircraft departed at 10:54 p.m. from runway 19 (currently runway 19R). The aircraft contacted trees approximately 1,800 meters from the point of lift-off. Five of the 10 passengers and crew on board were killed and the aircraft was written off.ASN Aircraft accident Convair CV-990-30A-5 EC-BNM Stockholm-Arlanda&lt;!--Bot-generated title--&gt;14 July 1973: A Sterling Airways Sud Aviation Caravelle registered as OY-SAN taxied into an obstruction and was written off as being damaged beyond repair.ASN Aircraft accident Sud Aviation SE-210 Caravelle VIR OY-SAN Stockholm-Arlanda Airport (ARN)&lt;!--Bot-generated title--&gt;25 January 1974: Scandinavian Airlines Sud Aviation Caravelle registered as OY-KRA was damaged beyond repair and written off.ASN Aircraft accident Sud Aviation SE-210 Caravelle III OY-KRA Stockholm-Arlanda&lt;!--Bot-generated title--&gt;26 May 1977: An Antonov 24 belonging to Aeroflot registered as CCCP-46806 on a scheduled flight from Donetsk Airport (DOK) to Riga Airport (RIX) was hijacked by a single hijacker who demanded to be taken to Sweden where the hijacker surrendered releasing the 23 passengers and crew.ASN Aircraft accident Antonov 24B CCCP-46806 Stockholm-Arlanda (ARN)&lt;!--Bot-generated title--&gt;14 November 1978: An Aeroflot Tupolev 154 registered as CCCP-85286 on a scheduled flight from Stockholm-Arlanda Airport to Moskva-Sheremetyevo Airport (SVO) aborted its take-off after having reached rotation speed. The aircraft overran the runway and while none of the 74 passengers or crew was injured the aircraft suffered substantial damage.ASN Aircraft accident Tupolev 154B-1 CCCP-85286 Stockholm-Arlanda Airport (ARN)&lt;!--Bot-generated title--&gt;27 February 1979: An Aeroflot Tupolev 154 on a flight from Oslo to Stockholm with a continuation to Moscow was taken over by three hijackers who were taken down in Stockholm.ASN Aircraft accident Tupolev 154 Stockholm&lt;!--Bot-generated title--&gt;16 August 1980 While landing during a thunderstorm, a JAT B 707 YU-AGG received strong tailwind and overan runway 26 blowing several tyres and received mud in all 4 engines. There were no fatalities in the incident.6 January 1987: A Transwede Sud Aviation Caravelle registered as SE-DEC on a non-scheduled flight from Stockholm-Arlanda Airport to Alicante Airport (ALC) encountered problems after take-off most likely caused by ice. The aircraft hit the runway hard causing the landing gear to fail and the aircraft slid off the runway and caught fire. None of the 27 passengers and crew was killed but the aircraft was written off and subsequently used by the airport's ARFF as a fire and rescue training aircraft.ASN Aircraft accident Sud Aviation SE-210 Caravelle 10R SE-DEC Stockholm-Arlanda Airport (ARN)&lt;!--Bot-generated title--&gt;27 December 1991: Scandinavian Airlines Flight 751, a McDonnell Douglas MD-81, registered as OY-KHO, a scheduled flight from Stockholm-Arlanda Airport to Copenhagen-Kastrup Airport (CPH) crashed shortly after take-off due to a dual engine failure when clear ice, which had formed during the night, was not properly removed during de-icing, broke off and was ingested into the engines. None of the 129 passengers and crew was killed but the aircraft was written off.ASN Aircraft accident McDonnell Douglas MD-81 OY-KHO Gottröra&lt;!--Bot-generated title--&gt;' 20 February 1993:' A hijacker on board an Aeroflot Tupolev 134 on a scheduled flight between Tyumen Airport (TJM) and Saint Petersburg-Pulkovo Airport (LED) demanded to be taken to the USA. The aircraft first made a refueling stop in Tallinn where 30 passengers were released, after which the aircraft was flown to Stockholm where the hijacker demanded a larger aircraft to be flown to the U.S. After having released 12 more passengers the hijacker, who was accompanied by his wife and child, surrendered releasing the remaining 40 passengers and crew.ASN Aircraft accident Tupolev 134 Stockholm&lt;!--Bot-generated title--&gt;' 7 October 1997:' A BAC One-Eleven belonging to Tarom registered as YR-BCM on a scheduled flight from Bucharest-Otopeni International Airport (OTP) to Stockholm-Arlanda Airport suffered a failure of the nosewheel steering after touching down heavily on runway 26. As the airplane slowed down the commander discovered that he could not control the aircraft which departed the runway and continued into the grassy area to on the right side. The aircraft slowed down softly and when it came to a stop the passengers and crew were able to depart the aircraft using the normal exits. The aircraft was written off and taken to Halmstad by Le Caravelle Club to be used as a fire trainer.ASN Aircraft accident BAC One-Eleven 525FT YR-BCM Stockholm-Arlanda Airport (ARN)&lt;!--Bot-generated title--&gt;' 8 October 1999:' A Saab 2000 belonging to SAS Commuter registered as SE-SLF called "Eir Viking" ran into a closed hangar door. At the time it was supposedly being taxied by two engineers or technicians. The two persons on board received some injuries and the aircraft was written off.ASN Aircraft accident Saab 2000 SE-LSF Stockholm-Arlanda Airport (ARN)&lt;!--Bot-generated title--&gt;See alsoStockholm-Bromma AirportStockholm-Skavsta AirportStockholm-Västerås AirportStockholmSwedish Civil Aviation AdministrationList of the largest airports in the Nordic countriesList of airports in SwedenReferencesExternal linksStockholm-Arlanda Airport, official siteStockholm Airport City, framtida guide hemsidahttp://sketchup.google.com/3dwarehouse/details?mid=74dcae967aea546d74a7587af4b63cc5, DesignsbyALX Google Earth model of Arlanda air traffic conrtol towerCategory:Airports of Stockholm Category:Metropolitan Stockholm Category:Airports in Sweden Category:Transport in Stockholm Category:Buildings and structures in Stockholm Category:Space Shuttle landing sitescs:Stockholm-Arlanda da:Arlanda de:Flughafen Stockholm-Arlanda et:Stockholmi Arlanda lennujaam es:Aeropuerto de Estocolmo-Arlanda fr:Aéroport de Stockholm-Arlanda id:Bandar Udara Internasional Arlanda it:Aeroporto di Stoccolma-Arlanda nl:Luchthaven Stockholm-Arlanda ja:ストックホルム・アーランダ空港 no:Arlanda lufthavn pl:Port lotniczy Sztokholm-Arlanda pt:Aeroporto de Arlanda ro:Aeroportul Stockholm-Arlanda ru:Стокгольм-Арланда (аэропорт) sr:Аеродром Арланда su:Bandara Internasional Arlanda fi:Arlandan lentoasema sv:Arlanda th:ท่าอากาศยานสตอกโฮล์ม-อาร์แลนดา vi:Sân bay Stockholm-Arlanda zh:斯德哥爾摩－阿蘭達機場