  Michael Clayton is a 2007 American dramatic legal thriller film written and directed by Tony Gilroy and produced by Sydney Pollack. It stars George Clooney, Tom Wilkinson, Tilda Swinton and Sydney Pollack. It chronicles the attempts of attorney Michael Clayton to cope with a colleague's apparent mental breakdown and the corruption and murderous intrigue within a major client of his law firm that was sued in a class action case involving toxic agrichemicals.Plot summaryThe story opens as Michael Clayton (George Clooney), an attorney with a gambling problem, leaves a late night poker game. Employed at prestigious New York City law firm Kenner, Bach & Ladeen as a "fixer"&mdash;someone who rectifies difficult situations, often through unconventional or expedient methods&mdash;Clayton takes a call from a partner at the firm, who directs him to meet with a key client who believes he has struck a pedestrian with his car and left the scene. After a contentious meeting, Clayton pulls off to the side of the road after having driven aimlessly for some time. It is daybreak: he climbs a hill to look at some horses; as Clayton gazes at them, his car suddenly explodes.The story flashes back to four days earlier. Clayton has just received news that he owes seventy-five thousand dollars to organized crime figures, due to a failed attempt to open a bar with his brother Timmy (David Lansbury). Then he is called with the news that one of the firm's leading attorneys, Arthur Edens (Tom Wilkinson), has suffered a mental breakdown. In the middle of a crucial deposition involving a class action lawsuit against the firm's largest client, United Northfield (also known as U-North, and possibly a fictional version of Monsanto)*"Still, more than one Web log claims to see similarities between Monsanto and the fictional company “U-North” in the movie Michael Clayton, an agribusiness giant accused in a multibillion-dollar lawsuit of selling an herbicide that causes cancer." &quot;Monsanto's Harvest of Fear: Politics &amp; Power&quot;. Vanity Fair. Published May 2008., an agricultural products conglomerate, Edens begins rambling incoherently and strips naked. Dispatched to fix the situation, Clayton gets Edens out of jail in Milwaukee and learns that his friend, who is bipolar, has stopped taking his medication. Before Clayton can escort Edens back to New York City to receive medical care, Edens flees and returns to New York on his own. Karen Crowder (Tilda Swinton), U-North's corporate general counsel, has retrieved Edens's briefcase from the deposition room and discovers that Edens had obtained an internal U-North memorandum documenting the company's culpability for manufacturing a cancer-causing herbicide. When Crowder learns that Edens refuses to cooperate and cannot easily be committed to a mental health institution, she decides to hire two operatives (Robert Prescott, Terry Serpico) to follow Edens, including tapping his phone and installing bugs in his apartment. This surveillance and the firm's review of documents in Edens's office reveals that Edens was building a case against U-North, his own client. Crowder instructs the two spies to murder Edens; their methods fool the police into believing it was a suicide.Clayton is distraught at the death of his friend, but becomes suspicious when he accidentally learns both that U-North was planning to settle and that Edens had purchased a plane ticket to New York for one of the class action plaintiffs, Anna (Merritt Wever). With the passive assistance of his other brother (Sean Cullen), a NYPD police detective, Clayton breaks into Edens's sealed apartment and discovers a receipt for a large copy store order. At the store he discovers that Edens had ordered three thousand copies of a memo incriminating U-North. Clayton takes a copy and leaves, but the two hit men are now tailing him and, having secured their own copy of the memo, they inform Crowder of the latest developments. Clayton is about to show Marty Bach, his boss (Pollack), what he has discovered, only to be confronted with an offer of a three-year contract renewal with the firm and a "bonus" of eighty thousand dollars, which he had asked Bach for earlier; he holds the check in one hand and the damning evidence in the other. As Clayton plays poker that evening (returning to the opening scene of the movie), one of the hit men is seen rigging his car with a bomb. Responding to a phone call, Clayton leaves the game earlier than expected, interrupting the hit man's re-installation of the vehicle tracking system, causing it to malfunction. Clayton drives to Westchester County to meet with the client who committed the hit-and-run. He is followed by the hit men, who have trouble tracking him. Knowing that he is nearby, but not his exact location, the hit men detonate the bomb. At this point, the story has returned to the events at the beginning of the film.An unharmed Clayton runs back to his car and throws his personal effects into the fire. Later, at a U-North board of directors meeting, Crowder proposes that a new settlement agreement, in which the tax write-off would essentially offset the cost, be approved. When she steps out of the conference room to allow the directors to confer, Clayton is waiting for her. He tells her he has access to copies of the U-North memo and that he knows she was responsible for Edens's death and the attempt on his own life. Admitting that he himself "sold out" Edens for money and career (after all, that is the role he plays at the firm), he demands to be paid off personally by her for his continued silence, asking for $10&nbsp;million. Crowder reluctantly agrees, to Clayton's utter disgust. He reveals the live cellphone in his pocket, and walks away as police officers approach; his brother, the NYPD detective, had been covertly listening to their entire conversation. As Crowder and the U-North Chairman (Ken Howard) are arrested, Clayton leaves the building and gets into a taxi. He tells the driver, "Give me $50 worth. Just drive." After a few minutes his face reveals a hint of a smile and then the film cuts to credits on black.ProductionLocationsThe railroad bridge where Clayton's car explodes is the Moodna Viaduct in Cornwall, New York, which is actually in Orange County, not Westchester. Washingtonville, where Clayton is said to have graduated from high school and where his father's birthday party takes place, is where writer and director Tony Gilroy himself attended high school.ReleaseTheatricalThe film premiered August 31 2007, at the Venice Film Festival and was shown at the American Films Festival of Deauville on September 2, 2007, and at the Toronto International Film Festival on September 7, 2007. It opened in the United Kingdom on September 28, 2007, and at the Dubai Film Festival in December 2007. The film opened in limited release in the United States on October 5 2007, and opened in wide release in the U.S. on October 12, 2007. The film grossed USD $10.3 million on the opening week. It was re-released on January 25, 2008. As of February 8, 2008, the film has grossed $45 million domestically. The film in total grossed $92.6 million worldwide. Michael Clayton (2007)&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Home mediaThe film was released on DVD and Blu-ray on February 19 2008. The DVD contains deleted scenes and a commentary by writer/director Tony Gilroy. On March 11, 2008 the movie was also released on HD DVD.ReceptionCritical receptionThe film received strongly positive reviews from critics. As of March 19, 2008, the review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes reported that 90% of critics gave the film positive reviews, based on 181 reviews, some of whom thought it was a dramatization of a true story. Metacritic reported the film had an average score of 82 out of 100, based on 36 reviews. Owen Gleiberman of Entertainment Weekly gave it an 'A' saying that it was "better than good, it just about restores your faith." Roger Ebert gave it a 4-star review and Richard Roeper named it the 'best film of the year.' It was also Richard Schickel's top film of 2007, and he called it “a morally alert, persuasively realistic and increasingly suspenseful melodrama, impeccably acted and handsomely staged by Tony Gilroy". The reviews on Box Office Mojo give the movie a normal B.[[Schickel, Richard]; “The 10 Best Movies”; time.com]Top ten listsThe film appeared on many critics' top ten lists of the best films of 2007.1st - Claudia Puig, USA Today1st - Richard Roeper, At the Movies with Ebert &amp; RoeperRoeper's review on Youtube1st - Richard Schickel, ''TIME'' magazine2nd - Peter Hartlaub, San Francisco Chronicle3rd - Owen Gleiberman, Entertainment Weekly5th - Rene Rodriguez, The Miami Herald6th - Ann Hornaday, The Washington Post6th - Ray Bennett, The Hollywood Reporter7th - Jack Mathews, New York Daily News7th - Kenneth Turan, Los Angeles Times7th - Manohla Dargis, The New York Times (tied with Lady Chatterley)7th - Ty Burr, The Boston Globe8th - A.O. Scott, The New York Times (tied with The Lives of Others)8th - Kevin Crust, Los Angeles Times8th - Shawn Levy, The Oregonian8th - Steven Rea, The Philadelphia Inquirer9th - Dennis Harvey, Variety (tied with Romantico)9th - Frank Scheck, The Hollywood ReporterAwardsWins'''80th Academy Awards (Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences)Best Supporting Actress (Tilda Swinton)'''British Academy of Film and Television ArtsBest Supporting Actress (Tilda Swinton)Dallas-Fort Worth Film Critics Association AwardsBest Supporting Actress (Tilda Swinton)National Board of ReviewBest Actor (George Clooney)San Francisco Film Critics CircleBest Actor (George Clooney)Washington D.C. Area Film Critics AssociationBest Actor (George Clooney)Nominations80th Academy AwardsBest Actor in a Leading Role (George Clooney)Best Actor in a Supporting Role (Tom Wilkinson)Best Director (Tony Gilroy)Best PictureBest Original Screenplay (Tony Gilroy)Best Original Score (James Newton Howard)65th Golden Globe Awards Best Motion Picture - DramaBest Performance by an Actor in a Motion Picture - Drama (George Clooney)Best Performance by an Actor in a Supporting Role in a Motion Picture (Tom Wilkinson)Best Performance by an Actress in a Supporting Role in a Motion Picture (Tilda Swinton)Broadcast Film Critics Association AwardsBest PictureBest Actor (George Clooney)Best Supporting Actor (Tom Wilkinson)Best Supporting Actress (Tilda Swinton)Best Writer (Tony Gilroy)Chicago Film Critics Association AwardsBest Actor (George Clooney)Best Director (Tony Gilroy)Best PictureBest Screenplay, Original (Tony Gilroy)Best Supporting Actor (Tom Wilkinson)Best Supporting Actress (Tilda Swinton)Most Promising Filmmaker (Tony Gilroy)London Film Critics Circle AwardsActor of the Year (George Clooney)British Actor of the Year (Tom Wilkinson)British Supporting Actor of the Year (Tom Wilkinson)British Supporting Actress of the Year (Tilda Swinton)Satellite AwardsBest Actor in a Supporting Role - Drama (Tom Wilkinson)Best Actress in a Supporting Role - Drama (Tilda Swinton)Best Original Screenplay (Tony Gilroy)Screen Actors Guild AwardsOutstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Supporting Role (Tilda Swinton)Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Leading Role (George Clooney)Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Supporting Role (Tom Wilkinson)Venice Film FestivalGolden Lion (Tony Gilroy)Soundtrack linkFilmtracks  linkMovie Music UK  linkMovie Wave  linkMusic from the Movies  linkSoundtrackNet  link Original Motion Picture Soundtrack: Michael Clayton was released on September 25 2007 on the Varèse Sarabande label.AwardsAlthough the album was panned by some critics, it was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Original Score.Track listingAll tracks composed by James Newton Howard."Main Titles" &ndash; 2:12"Chinatown" &ndash; 2:27"Drive to the Field" &ndash; 1:35"Just Another Day" &ndash; 2:20"Meeting Karen" &ndash; 2:46"Looking for Arthur" &ndash; 1:41"U North" &ndash; 1:49"Arthur & Henry" &ndash; 2:11"Times Square" &ndash; 3:38"Mr. Verne" &ndash; 2:28"I'm Not the Guy You Kill" &ndash; 6:57"Horses" &ndash; 2:13"25 Dollars Worth" &ndash; 6:27ReferencesExternal links[http://www.soundtrackcollector.com/catalog/soundtrackdetail.php?movieid=81207 Michael Clayton at Soundtrack Collector]Category:2007 films Category:American films Category:English-language films Category:2000s drama films Category:Films featuring a Best Supporting Actress Academy Award winning performance Category:Legal films Category:Thriller films Category:Films shot anamorphically Category:Directorial debut films Category:Films set in New York Category:Films set in Wisconsin Category:Edgar Award winning worksca:Michael Clayton da:Michael Clayton de:Michael Clayton es:Michael Clayton fr:Michael Clayton hr:Michael Clayton (2007) id:Michael Clayton (film) it:Michael Clayton (film) hu:Michael Clayton nl:Michael Clayton ja:フィクサー (2007年の映画) no:Michael Clayton pl:Michael Clayton pt:Michael Clayton fi:Michael Clayton tr:Avukat (film) zh:敵對同謀