's Vitruvian Man (ca. 1487). Pen and ink with wash over metalpoint on paper, 344&nbsp;×&nbsp;245&nbsp;mm.]] The Vitruvian Man is a world-renowned drawing with accompanying notes created by Leonardo da Vinci around the year 1487The Secret Language of the Renaissance - Richard Stemp as recorded in one of his journals. It depicts a nude male figure in two superimposed positions with his arms and legs apart and simultaneously inscribed in a circle and square. The drawing and text are sometimes called the Canon of Proportions or, less often, Proportions of Man. It is stored in the Gallerie dell'Accademia in Venice, Italy, but is only displayed on special occasions.The Vitruvian manDa Vinci's CodeLeonardo based his drawing on some hints at correlations of ideal human proportions with geometry in Book III of the treatise De Architectura by the ancient Roman architect Vitruvius, thus its name. Other artists had attempted to realize the conception, with less success. Vitruvius described as the principal source of proportion among the orders of architecture the proportion of the human figure.This image exemplifies the blend of art and science during the Renaissance and provides the perfect example of Leonardo's keen interest in proportion. In addition, this picture represents a cornerstone of Leonardo's attempts to relate man to nature. Encyclopaedia Britannica online states, "Leonardo envisaged the great picture chart of the human body he had produced through his anatomical drawings and Vitruvian Man as a cosmografia del minor mondo (cosmography of the microcosm). He believed the workings of the human body to be an analogy for the workings of the universe." It is also believed by some that Leonardo symbolized the material existence by the square and spiritual existence by the circle. Thus he attempted to depict the correlation between these two aspects of human existence.About.com — Vitruvian Man According to Leonardo's notes in the accompanying text, written in mirror writing, it was made as a study of the proportions of the (male) human body as described in Vitruvius, who wrote that in the human body:a palm is the width of four fingersa foot is the width of four palms (i.e., 12 inches)a cubit is the width of six palmsa man's height is four cubits (and thus 24 palms)a pace is four cubitsthe length of a man's outspread arms is equal to his heightthe distance from the hairline to the bottom of the chin is one-tenth of a man's heightthe distance from the top of the head to the bottom of the chin is one-eighth of a man's heightthe maximum width of the shoulders is a quarter of a man's heightthe distance from the elbow to the tip of the hand is one-fifth of a man's heightthe distance from the elbow to the armpit is one-eighth of a man's heightthe length of the hand is one-tenth of a man's heightthe distance from the bottom of the chin to the nose is one-third of the length of the headthe distance from the hairline to the eyebrows is one-third of the length of the facethe length of the ear is one-third of the length of the faceLeonardo is clearly illustrating Vitruvius' De architectura 3.1.3 which reads:The navel is naturally placed in the centre of the human body, and, if in a man lying with his face upward, and his hands and feet extended, from his navel as the centre, a circle be described, it will touch his fingers and toes. It is not alone by a circle, that the human body is thus circumscribed, as may be seen by placing it within a square. For measuring from the feet to the crown of the head, and then across the arms fully extended, we find the latter measure equal to the former; so that lines at right angles to each other, enclosing the figure, will form a square.The multiple viewpoint that set in with Romanticism has convinced us that there is no such thing as a universal set of proportions for the human body. The field of anthropometry was created in order to describe these individual variations. Vitruvius' statements may be interpreted as statements about average proportions. Vitruvius goes through some trouble to give a precise mathematical definition of what he means by saying that the navel is the center of the body, but other definitions lead to different results; for example, the center of mass of the human body depends on the position of the limbs, and in a standing posture is typically about 10&nbsp;cm lower than the navel, near the top of the hip bones.Note that Leonardo's drawing combines a careful reading of the ancient text with his own observation of actual human bodies. In drawing the circle and square he correctly observes that the square cannot have the same center as the circle, the navel, but is somewhat lower in the anatomy. This adjustment is the innovative part of Leonardo's drawing and what distinguishes it from earlier illustrations. He also departs from Vitruvius by drawing the arms raised to a position in which the fingertips are level with the top of the head, rather than Vitruvius's much higher angle, in which the arms form lines passing through the navel.The drawing itself is often used as an implied symbol of the essential symmetry of the human body, and by extension, to the universe as a whole.It may be noticed by examining the drawing that the combination of arm and leg positions actually creates sixteen different poses. The pose with the arms straight out and the feet together is seen to be inscribed in the superimposed square. On the other hand, the "spread-eagle" pose is seen to be inscribed in the superimposed circle.The drawing was in the collection of Giuseppe Bossi, who illustrated it in his monograph on Leonardo's The Last Supper, Del Cenacolo di Leonardo Da Vinci libri quattro (Milan 1810).Bibliographic reference. The following year he excerpted the section of his monograph concerned with Leonardo's "Vitruvian Man" and published it as Delle opinioni di Leonardo da Vinci intorno alla simmetria de'Corpi Umani (Milan: Stamperia Reale, 1811), with a dedication to his friend Antonio Canova.Bibliographical notice, no. 319.Dedicated by the author to his friend, the neoclassical sculptor Antonio Canova, this discussion of Leonardo's theory of human proportions is extracted from Bossi monograph on the Last Supper, pp. 202-26 (No. 318).After his death in 1815 it was acquired with the bulk of his drawings by the Accademia.Representations in modern timespatch shows a Vitruvian Man, with a globe and sun in rear.]]The Vitruvian Man is now used as a contemporary symbol of medical professionals and medical establishments. Many medical companies have adopted this artwork as their symbol of their group, company and or organization.The medical profession and the Vitruvian Man has become somewhat synonymous with modern medical practices. The United States, Saudi Arabia, India and Germany are the countries which have widely accepted and adopted the Vitruvian Man as a symbol of medical professionalism.The Vitruvian Man remains one of the most referenced and reproduced artistic images in the world today. The proportions for the human body, as proposed by Vitruvius, have inspired many other artists in drawing their version of the Vitruvian Man:Cesare Ceasariano (1521) who edited the important 1521 edition of “De Archtectura” of Vitruvius (Leonardo da Vinci is supposed to have provided the illustrations for this edition).Albrecht Dürer (1528) in his book Vier Bücher von menschlicher Proportion (Four books on human proportions)Pietro di Giacomo Cataneo (1554)Heinrich Lautensack (1618)William Blake (1795) “Glad Day” (now known as "Albion rose"). This representation is without the circle and square.]] As well as its use by the medical profession, the Vitruvian Man has been used in a variety of fictional and non-fictional media, for various symbolic purposes. For example, the image appears on the national side of Italian 1 euro coins, chosen by the Economy minister (and later President of the Italian Republic) Carlo Azeglio Ciampi for its high symbolic meaning of "man as a measure of all things".Particularly when used in fiction, the image of the Vitruvian Man is commonly modified to suit the setting by featuring a characterhttp://www.marvel.com/news/all.48 Marvel crossover announcement with Vitruvian man poster, a skeleton or a non-humanhttp://www.knopper.net/knoppix/index-en.html The logo for the Linux distribution, Knoppix (such as a robothttp://www.specialist-games.com/inquisitor/assets/lrb/InqLRBpart1.pdf Rulebook for Inquisitor, a miniatures game by Games Workshop, featuring a cybernetically modified Vitruvian Man p76-77. in science fiction or an animal). The easily-recognisable image lends itself to being referenced.[http://leonardodavinci.stanford.edu/submissions/clabaugh/today.html The Vitruvian Man today See alsoBody proportionsLe Corbusier (1948): The ModulorLeonardo's robotNotesExternal linksWillamette University site on Vitruvian manStanford University site on Vitruvian manThe Vitruvian Man and the squaring of the circleLeonardo's Vitruvian ManVitruvian Man VideoDecoding the Vitruvian manGeometry behind the Vitruvian manVitruvivien - Female approach of Vitruvian manContemporary interpretation of Vitruvian ManCategory:Drawings Category:Leonardo da Vinci Category:Renaissance art Category:Collections of the Gallerie dell'Accademiaar:لوحة الرجل الفيتوري bg:Витрувиански човек da:Homo Vitruvianus de:Der vitruvianische Mensch el:Άνθρωπος του Βιτρούβιου es:Hombre de Vitruvio fr:Homme de Vitruve it:Uomo vitruviano he:האדם הוויטרובי hu:Vitruvius-tanulmány nl:Vitruviusman pl:Człowiek witruwiański pt:Homem vitruviano ru:Витрувианский человек fi:Vitruviaan mies sv:Vitruvianske mannen [[tr:Vitruvius Ada