   The Kodak Theatre is a live theatre in the Hollywood and Highland retail, dining, and entertainment complex on Hollywood Boulevard and North Highland Avenue in the Hollywood district of Los Angeles. Since its opening on November 9, 2001, the theatre has been the home of the annual Academy Awards Ceremonies (The Oscars), which were first held there in March 2002, and is the first permanent home for the awards.The theatre was designed by David Rockwell of the Rockwell Group, and Theatre Projects Consultantshttp://livedesignonline.com/mag/show_business_kodak_moment/ specifically with the Oscars in mind. It has a seating capacity for up to 3,401 people and the stage is one of the largest in the United States, measuring  wide by  deep. The theatre was sponsored by the Kodak company, which paid $75 million to have its name associated with the building. It is owned by CIM Group.The theatre is particularly successful as a venue for televised theatre performance (improving production values and economies in American Idol and the Academy Awards) through the planning and technical design. The architect and advisers undertook extensive consultation with many of the leading production personnel in Hollywood which led to highly functional production cable infrastructure systems (including an underground cable bunker which passes below the theatre to truck locations in adjacent streets, accessible and substantial power, and a unique camera, sound and stage management cockpit designed by Rockwell in the orchestra seating area.The Grand Staircase entrance columns hall to the Kodak Theatre is flanked by columns displaying the names of winners of the Academy Awards for Best Picture since 1927-1928, with blank spaces left for future Best Picture winners well into the 21st century. Still, a visitor during the rest of the year might have a hard time recognizing the landmark. In a fashion reminiscent of Hollywood's moviemaking process, the building is "dressed" before the ceremony, including a different sign (though not always), drapery to hide all the storefronts, and the famous large red carpet.The theatre is rented to the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences for weeks before the Oscar night. During the rest of the year, it hosts numerous live concerts, award shows, symphony performances and others. However, the 7,000 seat Nokia Theatre at L.A. Live has largely replaced the Kodak Theatre as the premier auditorium in L.A. since it opened in 2007, and some events formerly held at the Kodak are now regularly held at the Nokia, including the American Idol finals.Cirque du SoleilBeginning in 2010, a new Cirque du Soleil show will debut at the Kodak with a movie-themed show for the millions of tourists who flock to the Hollywood area. The Show will run for 10 years and will take a six week break during L.A.'s Oscar season.http://www.latimes.com/news/local/la-et-cirque20nov20,1,77062.story?coll=la-headlines-california&amp;ctrack=1&amp;cset=truePast eventsArtists that have appeared at the Kodak Theatre include Andranik Madadian, Parska Hav, Armenchik, Christina Aguilera, Céline Dion, the Dixie Chicks, Mariah Carey, Elvis Costello, Vanilla Ice, Barry Manilow, Prince, Ian Anderson, David Gilmour, Frankie Valli and the Four Seasons, Heather Salfen, Broadway musicals, dance shows, symphony performances and opera.in 2003.]] Other events have included the AFI Life Achievement Award to Tom Hanks, the ESPY Awards for excellence in sports performance yearly, the BET Awards and American Idol finales. In April 2006, it was home to the 33rd Daytime Emmy Awards, and it hosted the 34th Daytime Emmy Awards on June 15, 2007.In 2005, Nintendo launched its latest game console, the Wii, at the Kodak Theatre before E3 began. Nintendo used the venue again in 2006 for its pre-E3 news conference. The 2006 Victoria's Secret Fashion Show was also held at the Kodak Theatre for the first time, having been held in New York in previous years.The theatre has also hosted the Miss USA pageant twice, in 2004 and 2007.Nintendo once again borrowed the venue for their 2008 E3 Press Conference after holding their previous year's conference in Santa Monica.External linksin 2003.]]Official Website of the Kodak TheatreAcademy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences venue descriptionKodak.com  Category:Concert halls in the United States Category:Landmarks in Los Angeles, California Category:Theatres in Los Angeles, California Category:Kodakbg:Кинотеатър Кодак ca:Teatre Kodak cs:Kodak Theatre de:Kodak Theatre el:Θέατρο Κόντακ es:Teatro Kodak fr:Théâtre Kodak it:Kodak Theatre nl:Kodak Theatre ja:コダック・シアター no:Kodak Theatre pl:Kodak Theatre pt:Teatro Kodak simple:Kodak Theatre fi:Kodak-teatteri sv:Kodak Theatre tr:Kodak Tiyatrosu zh:柯達劇院