    ' "Hey Jude"]] Music recording sales certification is a system of certifying that a music recording has shipped a certain number of copies.Almost all countries follow variations of the RIAA certification categories, which are named after the precious materials gold, platinum and diamond (silver is also used in some countries). The number of sales required for these awards varies depending on the population of the territory in which the album is released. Normally they are awarded only to albums released at least nationally and are awarded individually for each country in which the album is sold. Additionally, different sales levels may exist for different music media, such as albums, singles, or videos.Originally applied to LP records, certification is now most commonly awarded for compact disc sales. Certification is usually awarded cumulatively, and it is possible for a single album to be certified silver, gold, and platinum in turn. An album that becomes platinum twice over is said to be "double platinum". Artists can also become multi-platinum sellers if they have at least two albums in the same territory both going single platinum&mdash;therefore meaning that they do not have an individual album selling these amounts. Individual albums may become multi-platinum themselves.HistoryThe original Gold Record awards were presented to artists by their own record companies to publicize the achievement of 1,000,000 sales. The first of these was awarded by RCA to Glenn Miller in February 1942, celebrating 1,200,000 sales of "Chattanooga Choo Choo." Another example of a company award is the gold record awarded to Elvis Presley in 1956 for 1,000,000 sales of the single "Hound Dog". This has led to controversy over how to determine the placings for the biggest selling artists of all time, and claims that some gold albums should be disregarded or even retroactively withdrawn although they were legitimately awarded at the time.RIAA certification Several different thresholds have been in use at different times and places for both album and single awards. Some of these were based on units sold and others on the value of retail sales. The first official designation of a "gold record" by the RIAA was established for singles in 1958, and the RIAA also trademarked the term "gold record" in the United States. On March 14, 1958 the RIAA certified Perry Como's hit single "Catch a Falling Star" as its first-ever gold record. Later that year, the Elvis Presley hit "Hard Headed Woman" became the first rock and roll single to earn the RIAA designation. In 1976, RIAA introduced the platinum certification, it was first awarded for Iron Butterfly's In-A-Gadda-Da-Vida. The RIAA, prior to the 1980s when precious metals and diamonds became more expensive, used gold, platinum, and diamonds to cover the artists' album.Like many record industry awards and rankings, the measurement is usually based on wholesale shipments to all types of retail outlets, not actual retail sales or financial transactions. This means that an early award or ranking for a new release reflects a distributor's expectations for the album and their market power.IFPI certificationThe International Federation of Phonogram and Videogram Producers (IFPI) awards the IFPI Platinum Europe Award for album sales over one million within Europe. Multi-platinum Europe Awards are presented for sales in subsequent multiples of a million. The award, which was inaugurated in 1996, is not restricted to European group artists. Time is not a factor for an album to reach platinum.List of international sales certification thresholdsSee alsoRIAA certificationLists of best-selling albumsList of best-selling singlesRecording Industry Association of AmericaRelease (music)ReferencesExternal linksList of national recording industry associationsU.S./Canada Diamond Award AlbumsCertification of AwardsCategory:Music awards Category:Music industrycs:Zlatá deska de:Goldene Schallplatte et:Plaatinaplaat es:Certificación de ventas discográficas eo:Ora disko fa:گواهی‌نامه فروش موسیقی ضبط‌شده fr:Disque d'or ko:음반 판매량 인증 it:Certificazione delle vendite di dischi musicali he:אלבום זהב ka:მუსიკალური ჩანაწერის გაყიდვების სერტიფიკაცია hu:Aranylemez nl:Goud (muziek) ja:ゴールドディスク no:Salgstrofeer i musikkbransjen pl:Złota płyta pt:Certificações por vendas de gravação musical ru:Золотой диск simple:Music recording sales certification fi:Kultalevy sv:Guldskiva