A metamaterial (or meta material) is a material which gains its properties from its structure rather than directly from its composition. To distinguish metamaterials from other composite materials, the metamaterial label is usually used for a material which has unusual properties. The term was coined in 1999 by Rodger M. Walser of the University of Texas at Austin. He defined metamaterials as:R.M. Walser, in: W.S. Weiglhofer and A. Lakhtakia (Eds.), [http://spie.org/x648.xml?product_id=504610 Introduction to Complex Mediums for Electromagnetics and Optics], SPIE Press, Bellingham, WA, USA, 2003  Macroscopic composites having a manmade, three-dimensional, periodic cellular architecture designed to produce an optimized combination, not available in nature, of two or more responses to specific excitation.  Electromagnetics researchers often use the term, quite narrowly, for materials which exhibit negative refraction. W.E. Kock developed the first metamaterials in the late 1940s with metal-lens antennasIRE Proc., 34 November 1946, pp. 828-836 and metallic delay lensesBell. Sys. Tech. Jour., 27, January 1948, pp. 58-82.Electromagnetic metamaterialsMetamaterials are of particular importance in electromagnetism (especially optics and photonics). They show promise for a variety of optical and microwave applications such as new types of beam steerers, modulators, band-pass filters, lenses, microwave couplers, and antenna radomes.In order for its structure to affect electromagnetic waves, a metamaterial must have structural features smaller than the wavelength of the electromagnetic radiation it interacts with. For instance, if a metamaterial is to behave as a homogeneous material accurately described by an effective refractive index, the feature sizes must be much smaller than the wavelength. For visible light, which has wavelengths of less than one micrometre typically (560 nanometers for sunlight), the structures are generally half or less than half this size; i.e., less than 280 nanometres. For microwave radiation, the structures need only be on the order of one decimetre. Microwave frequency metamaterials are almost always artificial, constructed as arrays of current-conducting elements (such as loops of wire) which have suitable inductive and capacitive characteristics.Metamaterials usually consist of periodic structures, and thus have many similarities with photonic crystals and frequency selective surfaces. However, these are usually considered to be distinct from metamaterials, as their features are of similar size to the wavelength at which they function, and thus cannot be approximated as a homogeneous material.Negative refractive indexThe main reason researchers have investigated metamaterials is the possibility to create a structure with a negative refractive index, since this property is not found in any naturally occurring material. Almost all materials encountered in optics, such as glass or water, have positive values for both permittivity \epsilon and permeability \mu. However, many metals (such as silver and gold) have negative \epsilon at visible wavelengths. A material having either (but not both) \epsilon or \mu negative is opaque to electromagnetic radiation (see surface plasmon for more details).Although the optical properties of a transparent material are fully specified by the parameters \epsilon and \mu, in practice the refractive index N is often used. N may be determined from N=\pm\sqrt. All known transparent materials possess positive values for \epsilon and \mu. By convention the positive square root is used for N.However, some engineered metamaterials have \epsilon and \mu; because the product \epsilon\mu is positive, N is real. Under such circumstances, it is necessary to take the negative square root for N. Physicist Victor Veselago proved that such substances can transmit light.The foregoing considerations are simplistic for actual materials, which must have complex-valued \epsilon and \mu. The real parts of both \epsilon and \mu do not have to be negative for a passive material to display negative refraction. R.A. Depine and A. Lakhtakia, A new condition to identify isotropic dielectric-magnetic materials displaying negative phase velocity, Microwave and Optical Technology Letters, Vol. 41, pp. 315-316, 2004Metamaterials with negative N have numerous startling properties:Snell's law ( N_1\sin\theta_1=N_2\sin\theta_2) still applies, but as N_2 is negative, the rays will be refracted on the same side of the normal on entering the material.The Doppler shift is reversed: that is, a light source moving toward an observer appears to reduce its frequency.Cherenkov radiation points the other way.The time-averaged Poynting vector is antiparallel to phase velocity. This means that unlike a normal right-handed material, the wave fronts are moving in the opposite direction to the flow of energy.For plane waves propagating in such metamaterials, the electric field, magnetic field and wave vector follow a left-hand rule, thus giving rise to the name left-handed (meta)materials. It should be noted that the terms left-handed and right-handed can also arise in the study of chiral media, but their use in that context is unrelated to this effect. Some researchers consider the qualifier left-handed for achiral materials as particularly infelicitous.The effect of negative refraction is analogous to wave propagation in a left-handed transmission line, and such structures have been used to verify some of the effects described here.Development and applicationsThe first metamaterials were developed by W.E. Kock in the late 1940s.Metal-lens antennas, IRE Proc., 34 November 1946, pp. 828-836 and Metallic delay lenses, Bell. Sys. Tech. Jour.,27, January 1948, pp. 58-82 The unique properties of metamaterials were verified by full-wave analysis in Caloz et al. (2001).C. Caloz, C.-C. Chang, and T. Itoh, "Full-wave verification of the fundamental properties of left-handed materials in waveguide configurations," J. Appl. Phys. 2001, 90(11) However, the LH structures devised up to 2002 were impractical for microwave applications because they had a too narrow bandwidth and were quite lossy. Eleftheriades et al. (2002), and Caloz et al. (2002) provided a method to realize left-handed metamaterials using artificial lumped-element loaded transmission lines in microstrip technology.G.V. Eleftheriades, A.K. Iyer and P.C. Kremer, "Planar negative refractive index media using periodically L-C loaded transmission lines," IEEE Trans. on Microwave Theory and Techniques, vol. 50, no. 12, pp. 2702-2712, 2002C. Caloz and T. Itoh, "Application of the transmission line theory of left-handed (LH) materials to the realization of a microstrip 'LH line'," IEEE Antennas and Propagation Society International Symposium, 2002, 2, 412-415 (doi 10.1109/APS.2002.1016111).Superlens The first superlens with a negative refractive index provided resolution three times better than the diffraction limit and was demonstrated at microwave frequencies at the University of Toronto by A. Grbic and G.V. Eleftheriades.A. Grbic and G.V. Eleftheriades, "Overcoming the diffraction limit with a planar left-handed transmission-line lens," Physical Review Letters, vol. 92, no. 11, pp. 117403 , March 19, 2004 Subsequently, the first optical superlens (an optical lens which exceeds the diffraction limit) was created and demonstrated in 2005 by Xiang Zhang et al. of UC Berkeley, as reported that year in the April 22 issue of the journal Science,New superlens opens door to nanoscale optical imaging, high-density optoelectronics&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; but their lens didn't rely on negative refraction. Instead, they used a thin silver film to enhance the evanescent modes through surface plasmon coupling. This idea was first suggested by John Pendry in Physical Review Letters.Cloaking devicesMetamaterials have been proposed as a mechanism for building a cloaking device. These mechanisms typically involve surrounding the object to be cloaked with a shell which affects the passage of light near it.http://cnn.com/2006/TECH/05/25/invisibility.cloak.ap/index.html&lt;/ref&gt; On February 14, 2005, Andrea Alů and Nader Engheta at the University of Pennsylvania announced in a research paper that plasmons could be used to cancel out visible light or radiation coming from an object. This 'plasmonic cover' would work by suppressing light scattering by resonating with illuminated light, which could render objects "nearly invisible to an observer." The plasmonic screen would have to be tuned to the object being hidden, and would only suppress a specific wavelength: An object made invisible in red light would still be visible in multiwavelength daylight.A concept for a cloaking device was put forward by two mathematicians in one of the UKs Royal Society journals. Shortly afterwards, blueprints for building a cloaking device were put forward in the journal Science by researchers in the US and UK. However, "Scientists not involved in the work said the plans appear feasible but that they would require more-advanced substances than currently exist".Scientists shed new light on invisibility - The Boston Globe&lt;!-- bot-generated title --&gt; at www.boston.comIn October 2006, a US-British team of scientists created a metamaterial which made an object invisible to microwave radiation. Since light is just another form of electromagnetic radiation, this was considered the first step towards a cloaking device for visible light, though more advanced nano-engineering techniques would be needed due to visible light's short wavelengths.On April 2, 2007, two Purdue University engineers announced a theoretical design for an optical cloaking device based on the 2006 British concept. The design deploys an array of tiny needles projecting from a central spoke that would render an object within the cloak invisible in a wavelength of 632.8 nanometers.Engineers see progress in creating 'invisibility cloak'&lt;!-- bot-generated title --&gt; at www.purdue.eduDuke University and Imperial College London are currently researching this use of metamaterials and have managed to cloak an object in the microwave spectrum using special concentric rings; the microwaves were barely affected by the presence of the cloaked object.News Releases, Feature Stories and Profiles about Duke University's Pratt School of Engineering&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; In early 2007, a metamaterial with a negative index of refraction for visible light wavelengths was announced by a joint team of researchers at the Ames Laboratory of the United States Department of Energy and at Karlsruhe University in Germany. The material had an index of -0.6 at 780 nanometers.Metamaterials found to work for visible light&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Other uses Metamaterials have been also proposed for designing agile antennas.http://membres.lycos.fr/hocine/TAPCEBG.pdf&lt;/ref&gt; Research at the National Institute of Standards and Technology has demonstrated that thin films made of metamaterials can greatly reduce the size of resonating circuits that generate microwaves, potentially enabling even smaller cell phones and other microwave devices.‘Metafilms’ Can Shrink Radio, Radar Devices Newswise, Retrieved on September 14, 2008.Theoretical modelsLeft-handed (LH) materials were first introduced theoretically by Victor Veselago in 1967&lt;/ref&gt;&lt;ref&gt;.J. B. Pendry was the first to theorize a practical way to make a left-handed metamaterial (LHM). 'Left-handed' in this context means a material in which the 'right-hand rule' is not obeyed, allowing an electromagnetic wave to convey energy (have a group velocity) in the opposite direction to its phase velocity. Pendry's initial idea was that metallic wires aligned along propagation direction could provide a metamaterial with negative permittivity (ε