  | birthplace = Linkou, Taipei County, Republic of China (Taiwan) | deathdate = | deathplace = | restingplace = | restingplacecoordinates = | othername = President Chou (周董) | origin = Republic of China (Taiwan) | height = 173cm | occupation = Singer, musician, songwriter, record producer, rapper, director, and actor | genre = Mandopop, R&amp;B, hip hop, pop rap, pop, rock Country pop | instrument = Piano, Violin, Cello, Guitar | voicetype = | label = Sony BMG Asia, Alfa Music, JVR Music | yearsactive = 2000–Present | spouse = | partner = | children = | parents = | influences = | influenced = Nan Quan Mama | website = jay2u.comjvrmusic.com | hongkongfilmwards = Best Newcomer2006 Initial DBest Original Film Song2007 "Chrysanthemum Terrace" (Curse of the Golden Flower) | goldenbauhiniaawards = | hkfcsawards = | goldenhorseawards = Best Newcomer2005 Initial DOutstanding Taiwanese Film of the Year2007 SecretBest Original Song2007 "The Secret That Cannot Be Told" (Secret) | goldenroosterawards = | mtvasiaawards = Favorite Artist, Taiwan2002, 2005 | goldenmelodyawards = Best Mandarin Album2001 Jay2002 Fantasy2004 Ye Hui MeiBest Song of the Year2008 "Blue and White Porcelein" (On The Run)Best Composer2002 "Love Before A.D." (Fantasy) Government Information Office (R.O.C.) Winners of the 13th Golden Melody Awards. April 28, 2004. Retrieved December 11, 2007.2008 "Blue and White Porcelein" (On The Run)Best Producer2002 Fantasy Best Single Producer2007 Fearless EPBest Composer (Instrumental Category)2008 "Piano Room" (Secret)Best Producer (Instrumental Category)2008 Secret Original Movie Soundtrack (Secret) | awards = World Music AwardsBest-Selling Chinese Artist2004, 2006, 2007 'Jay Chou ' () (born January 18, 1979) is a Taiwanese musician, singer, producer, actor and director who has won the World Music Award three times. In 1998 he was discovered in a talent contest where he displayed his piano and song-writing skills. Over the next two years, he was hired to compose for popular Chinese singers. Although he was trained in classical music, Chou combines Chinese and Western music styles to produce songs that fuse R&amp;B, rock and pop genres, covering issues such as domestic violence, war, and urbanization.In 2000 Chou released his first album, titled Jay, under the record company Alfa Music. Since then he has released one album per year, selling several million copies each. His music has gained recognition throughout Asia, most notably in regions such as China, Japan, Hong Kong, Malaysia, Indonesia, Singapore, Vietnam, Taiwan, and in overseas Asian communities, winning more than 20 awards each year. He has sold over 25 million albums worldwide. He starred in Initial D (2005), for which he won Best Newcomer Actor in Golden Horse Awards, and was nominated for Best Supporting Actor by Hong Kong Film Awards for his role in Curse of the Golden Flower (2006). His career now extends into directing and running his own record company JVR Music. He has also endorsed various models of Media Players released by Onda in which he appears on the box, and his signature and likeness is printed on the back of certain models of these players.Early lifeJay Chou grew up in the small town of Linkou, Taiwan. Both his parents were secondary school teachers: his mother Ye Hui Mei () taught fine arts while his father Zhou Yao Zhong () was a biology instructor. His mother noticed his sensitivity to music and took him to piano lessons at the age of four. During his childhood, he was fascinated with capturing sounds and songs with his tape recorder, something he carried everywhere with him. In the third grade, he became interested in music theory and also started cello lessons. As an only child, he enjoyed being the family's center of attention; he loved to play piano, imitate TV actors, and perform magic tricks. His parents divorced when he was 14; as a result, he became reclusive and introverted. Although he had friends, he often preferred to be alone listening to music, contemplating and daydreaming. At Dan Jiang Senior High School, he majored in piano and minored in cello. He showed talent for improvisation, became fond of pop music and began to write songs. Chou graduated from high school with inadequate grades for university, so he prepared for military service, which was compulsory for all Taiwanese men at the age of 18. However, a sports injury triggered by an unexplainable and severe back pain eventually led to the diagnosis of ankylosing spondylitis, a hereditary spine inflammation disease; as a result, he was exempted from conscription.   Meanwhile, he found himself a job as a waiter. Without his knowing, his friend had entered both their names in a talent show called Super New Talent King. Chou played the piano accompaniment for his friend, whose singing was described as "lousy". Although they did not win, the show's host Jacky Wu—an influential character in Taiwan's entertainment business—happened to glance at Chou's music score and was impressed with its complexity. Wu hired him as a contract composer and paired him with the novice lyricist Vincent Fang ().Over the next two years he wrote songs for Chinese pop artists, and also learned recording and sound mixing; his dedication was apparent as he even slept in the music studio. Wu's music studio was later sold to Alfa Music, and the new manager Yang Jun Rong asked him to release his own album. Chou already had an arsenal of songs he wrote for others but had been rejected, so among those he chose 10 for his debut CD Jay that was released in 2000. The album established his reputation as a musically gifted singer-songwriter whose style is a fusion of R&amp;B, rap, classical music, and yet distinctly Chinese. His fame spread quickly not only in Chinese-speaking regions, but in non-Chinese countries as well throughout Southeast Asia.  Since 2000, Chou has released one album per year, each selling several million copies (see Discography), and has been recognized with hundreds of awards. In 2003, he was the cover story of Time magazine (Asia version), acknowledging his influence on popular culture. He has held three world tours, "The One" (2002), "Incomparable" (2004) and "Jay Chou The World Tours" (2007-2008) performing in cities such as Taipei, Tokyo, Hong Kong, Beijing, Kuala Lumpur, Singapore, Las Vegas, and Vancouver. Unlike most singers, Chou has an enormous amount of creative control over his music. He is not only the songwriter but also the producer in all of his albums; since 2005 he is also the music director and also directs his own music videos.While continuing to release an album yearly, he also entered the movie business with his debut role as the lead actor in Initial D, for which he won Best Newcomer at the Golden Horse Awards in 2005. The following year, Chou was cast as a supporting character in the world-wide release of Curse of the Golden Flower, starring international Chinese stars Chow Yun-Fat and Gong Li, giving Chou his brief but formal introduction to North American audiences. In February 2007, he finally fulfilled his childhood dream of being a director in ''Secret'', in which he also played the main character. In March 2007, his eight-year contract with Alfa Music ended. Chou, his manager Yang Jun Rong, and lyricist Vincent Fang co-founded a new record company, JVR Music (which is an acronym for 'J'ay, 'V'incent, Jun 'R'ong) through which Chou will continue his music career and fulfill his goal of fostering new singing talent.Music careerMusical style    Chou's compositions are loosely categorized as pop music. While many of his works fall into contemporary R&amp;B, rap, and rock genres, the term "Chou Style" ()   has been popularized to describe his trademark cross-cultural music and his insistence on singing with relaxed enunciation. Taipei Times once described the meaning of "Chou Style": "In what has become the archetypal Chou style, Taiwan's favorite song blends pop, rap, blues and a smorgasbord of esthetic elements of world music to create his dream-like never-never land&nbsp;..." He regularly fuses traditional Chinese instruments and styles with R&B or rock to form a new genre called "Zhongguo feng" (), some of which are written in the Pentatonic Scale as opposed to the normal seven-note scale (Diatonic Scale) to accentuate an oriental style. Besides his own culture, he also incorporated Spanish guitar in "Red Imitation" (), American techno/electronica in "Herbalist's Manual" (), rap with subtle classical music undertones in "Reverse Scales" (), and Bossanova style in "Rosemary" (), to name a few. Sound effects from everyday life are frequently woven into his music, such as bouncing ping pong balls, touch tone phone dialing, helicopter blades, dripping rain, and radio static noise (concrete music). His formal musical training is evident by the use of classical textures in his compositions. For example, counterpoint was used in "Perfection" () and "Sorry" (), while polyphony can be found in "The Wound That Ends War" () and "Twilight's Chapter Seven" ().Chou's albums have been noted for the lack of change compared to his earlier works, yet he firmly stated that he will not alter his style: "They say I've been standing still&nbsp;... but this is the music I want, and I don't see what I want by moving ahead." To demonstrate his point, he named his 2006 album Still Fantasy after his 2001 album Fantasy. His use of relaxed enunciation has been criticized as "mumbling"  which he also insisted will not change;  however, recently he has adopted clearer pronunciation for certain songs, such as "Faraway" () and "Chrysanthemum Terrace" (). LyricsStrictly speaking, Chou is more often a singer-composer than a lyricist. Several "regulars" write the lyrics for most of his music, but the content and style is unified with his own personality and image, covering a diverse range of topics and ideas. Vincent Fang accounts for more than half of the lyrics in his albums, helping to establish an important element in Chou's music: the use of meaningful, imagery- and emotionally-rich lyrics, sometimes written in the form of ancient Chinese poetry with reference to Chinese history or folklore. In addition to writing romantic hits, he also touches on war, the Bible, sports, and martial arts. Vivian Hsu is a singer herself and has helped with Chou's earlier hits, while Huang Jun Lang () is noted for his work surrounding unusual themes (such as a detective story and chess game). Chou himself has written lyrics for many love ballads, but has also discussed societal ills such as drug addiction in "Coward" () and loss of the rural countryside to urbanization in "Terrace fields" (). Domestic violence discussed in "Dad, I am back" () received a great deal of commotion since he was the first to bring up this taboo subject in Chinese music, which helped solidify his status as a pioneer and a unique pop singer capable of approaching serious issues. In the songs "Maternal grandmother" () and "Listen to your mother" (), he voiced his high regard for family values. He addressed personal issues about his failure to enter university in "Split" (), his resentment towards the paparazzi in "Besieged From All Sides" (), and preached the importance of individuality in "Popular Imitation" (). "Fragrant Rice" (), a song from his 9th album Capricorn encourages people not to give up their dreams even when facing difficulties in life.CollaborationsChou began as a songwriter for other singers and continued this area of work even after he debuted his own career in singing. He has composed frequently for Jolin Tsai, Landy Wen, and occasionally for other Taiwanese singers such as Coco Lee, S.H.E, Vivian Hsu, Lee-Hom Wang, Will Liu, Valen Hsu, and Hong Kong pop stars Edmond Leung, Gigi Leung, Jordan Chan, Edison Chen, Karen Mok, Leo Ku, Eason Chan, and Joey Yung. He has also written for singers outside of his generation—over one dozen songs for his mentor Jacky Wu, later also for Taiwanese singer Jody Chiang (), and Hong Kong singers Jacky Cheung, Andy Lau, Lui Fong (), Aaron Kwok, and Kenny Bee.     He initiated the band Nan Quan Mama in 2004, selecting band members and overseeing their album production. The group has been noted for sounding too similar to their mentor;  as a result, Chou has reduced his involvement in the band,  but continues to help increase their exposure to mass audiences by inviting them as guests performers for his own concerts and music videos. Jay 2004 Incomparable Live DVD. In Jay 2004 Incomparable Live DVD無與倫比演唱會 liner notes (2004). Taipei, Taiwan R.O.C.: Alfa Music International Co., Ltd.Maltose Candy 麥芽糖. In Huo Yuan Jia 霍元甲 liner notes (2006). Taipei, Taiwan R.O.C.: Alfa Music International Co., Ltd.Twilight’s Chapter Seven 夜的第七章. In Golden Armor 黄金甲 liner notes (2006). Taipei, Taiwan R.O.C.: Alfa Music International Co., Ltd. He has performed live duets with Landy Wen, Jolin Tsai,  and former girlfriend news anchor Patty Hou,  but only two studio recordings have been formally placed in his own albums: "Coral Sea" () in 2005 with Lara Veronin (of Nan Quan Mama) Coral Sea 珊瑚海. In November's Chopin 十一月的蕭邦 liner notes (2005). Taipei, Taiwan R.O.C.: Alfa Music International Co., Ltd. and "Faraway" () in 2006 with Fei Yu-Ching, who began his career in the 1970s. Faraway 千里之外. In Still Fantasy 依然范特西 liner notes (2006). Taipei, Taiwan R.O.C.: Alfa Music International Co., Ltd. Besides working with singers, Chou's longest-running collaboration is with lyricist Vincent Fang, as they both started their careers in the music field in 1998. The compilation album Partners () featured 12 songs, each consisting of Chou's musical and Fang's lyrical compositions.Partners. In Partners 拍檔 liner notes (2002). Taipei, Taiwan R.O.C.: Alfa Music International Co., Ltd. Fang has written the words to than more 40 of Chou's songs, acted as the chief editor of his book Grandeur de D Major (), and together are now business partners (with Chou's manager JR Yang) for the record company JVR Music. Other worksMovie careerChou formally entered the film industry in 2005 with the release of the movie Initial D (頭文字Ｄ). He has since acted in three other movies, directed one film and more than a dozen music videos. Chou, who once said "I live because of music",   ventured into movies because he felt the need for a new challenge. As fans have grown concerned that movies will compromise his music career, Chou has repeatedly reassured that movies are a source of inspiration and not a distraction; at the same time, he realizes the need to balance both careers and maintain his place in the music field to garner the continued support of fans.    ActingEntry into acting was an unexpected move for Chou. His high school English teacher thought he was capable of very few facial expressions, and the director of Hidden Track (2003, a movie in which Chou had a cameo role) said that his strong individualistic personality will not make him a good actor.  In 2005, Chou's first role as the lead actor in Initial D served two purposes: to launch his acting debut, and to increase his exposure to Japanese audiences.  This film is based on the Japanese comic Initial D, where Chou played Takumi Fujiwara, a gifted touge racer who is quiet and rarely shows expression. Some reviewers criticized his bland acting  while others felt he performed naturally, but only because the character’s personality closely mirrored his own.   His performance in Initial D won him Best Newcomer Actor in Golden Horse Awards and Hong Kong Film Awards.   Chou’s second film was Curse of the Golden Flower (2006). As a supporting character, he drew much of the attention from the Chinese reporters; Chou’s involvement in this movie was announced in its own press conference,  separate from the meeting held for Chow Yun-Fat, Gong Li, and the other actors. Chou portrayed Prince Jai, the ambitious second eldest prince and general of the Imperial army whose personality epitomizes Xiao (孝), the Chinese virtue of filial piety. In this internationally-released film, North American audiences see Chou for the first time. According to Chinese movie critics, comments about his acting ranged from "lacks complexity"  to "acceptable,"   but was critically praised by Western reviewers.      His performance in Curse of the Golden Flower was nominated Best Supporting Actor in the Hong Kong Film Awards.  For his third movie, he is the lead actor and director for Secret. Another movie, Kung Fu Dunk was also released in 2008.Directingfeaturing Chou as a director for the first time.]] Chou's acquired his first directing experience in 2004 through music videos. He initially experimented with a song by the group Nan Quan Mama titled "Home" () where he was involved throughout the entire process from research to editing. After learning the difficulties of being a director, he refused to direct again even at the request of his record company.  However, his interest resurfaced again as he directed music videos for 4 of the 12 songs in own album November's Chopin in 2005, Huo Yuan Chia. In Huo Yuan Chia 霍元甲 liner notes (2006). Taipei, Taiwan R.O.C.: Alfa Music International Co., Ltd. and later television advertisements.   By 2006, he had taken responsibility for the storyboard, directing, and editing of music videos for all his songs. It is unclear how the public appraises his work, since music videos are rarely the subject of critical review; however, director Zhang Yimou said that Chou's directing abilities may surpass his own in the future, after viewing several of Chou's music videos. In February 2007, Chou finally directed his first movie ''Secret''. The story he wrote is based loosely on his relationship with a high school girlfriend, with a plot focused on music, love, and family.  He stars as the lead actor of the film with Kwai Lun-Mei‎ as the female lead, and Hong Kong veteran actor Anthony Wong as Chou’s father. Despite previous experience in filming music videos, Chou admits that movies are more challenging due to storyline and time constraints. This movie was released in July 2007.Book: ''Grandeur de D Major''Chou published his first book titled Grandeur de D Major () on November 25, 2004. This 200-page book features a prologue written by his family, friends, and co-workers; the main section is a compilation of his personal attitudes, philosophies, and recollections of childhood experiences along with pictures from his music videos, many of which have never been released; and lastly, a list of the artist's major awards, musical and lyrical compositions, and discography. For the usually low-profile singer, this book revealed his personality and convictions that has served as the basis of his musical and public image. He demonstrated a strong appreciation of family values with an especially deep connection with his mother and maternal grandmother. His confidence and dedication towards music is evident as he dedicated 2 out of 7 chapters to music: the current state of the industry, his composition methodology, and the importance of individualism to his success in music. This pride is contrasted against his modesty and self-assessed naivety about many aspects in life, particularly regarding relationships and marriage.EndorsementsIn contrast to the United States where a negative connotation is placed on celebrities who endorse commercial products ("selling out"), in Asia, acquiring endorsement contracts with major brands are positive testaments of star-status. "…there is no Japanese word for 'sell out.' … an actor … has finally achieved celebrity status when he or she is big enough to appear in a television ad. famous enough to represent a brand-name product."   Chou has been a spokesperson for popular brands such as Pepsi (2002–2007), Panasonic (2001–2005), Motorola (since 2006), M-Zone/China Mobile (since 2003), Levi's (2004–2005), Deerhui (sporting goods, since 2003), and Metersbonwe (casual wear, since 2003), Colgate (2004–2005), popular computer game Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos (2002), science and nature magazine National Geographic (2005).   To maximize the celebrity branding effect, advertisements are nearly always linked to his music and TV commercials are occasionally directed by him. He acted as the tourism ambassador for Malaysia in 2003.  Media and public relationsPublic imageDespite living under continual media scrutiny, Chou's public image has changed little over the years as he emphasizes individuality as his "personal philosophy". In his music, this is also evident as he fuses Chinese and Western styles and explores topics unconventional for a pop singer, which have been described as "authentic" and "revolutionary". The media describes a hard-working perfectionist with clear self-direction who is occasionally regarded as competitive and a "control freak". His nickname "President Chou" () is used by both the press and fans to underscore his domineering personality and impact on Asian music, but also points at his musical talent since the Chinese word for president is a homonym of knowledge. He uses the word "diao" (), which was originally slang for penis, stands for "outrageous" or "cool". Outside of music, Chou is reported as shy, quiet, modest, and views filial piety as "the most important thing". In-line with his aim to present a positive image, he is a non-smoker, non-drinker, and does not go to nightclubs. Government officials and educators in Asia have awarded him for his exemplary behaviour, designated him a spokesperson in the youth-empowerment project "Young Voice" in 2005 and an anti-depression campaign in 2007,   His lyrics for two songs has been incorporated into the school syllabus to inspire motivational and filial attitudes.   In November 2007, Chou was criticized for attending the funeral of Taiwanese gang leader Chen Chi-li to console Chen's son Chen Chuhe, whom Chou met while filming Kung Fu Dunk.AccoladesFrom the launch of his music career in 2000, Chou has won more than 350 singer, singer-songwriter, and producer awards in Asia.Detailed award list (external link) by Jay Chou Studio The highly coveted Golden Melody Awards in Taiwan awarded "Best Album" for his debut CD Jay (2000) in 2001, and five awards (including "Best Album", "Best Composer", and "Best Producer") in the following year for the album Fantasy (2001). However, failure to win "Best Album" for three consecutive years has left him disheartened with award ceremonies.  Golden Melody Awards gave no awards to Chou in 2005, and not even a nomination in the following year (except for lyrics to "Hair Like Snow" () and arrangement of "Blue Storm" (), which lost). Apart from angering fans, various news agencies commented on the organization’s credibility.      They have been accused of producing awardees lists intended to maximize shock value by disfavoring Chou and others such as Lee-Hom Wang and Jolin Tsai, who have been treated similarly as they became increasingly popular. Although he continues to win more than 20 awards per year from various organizations in Asia, Chou has stated he will rely more on album sales as an indicator of his music's quality and popularity."For every album I hope to improve from my last, sell more than my last, … better sales means more people like the music…"  In 2004, 2006 and 2007, he was awarded Best-Selling Artist in China by World Music Awards for the albums Common Jasmin Orange and Still Fantasy. Response to the news media and paparazziAs with other stars, Chou has expressed a strong dislike of the paparazzi. In the early years of his career, unwanted attention by the media was usually dealt with by avoidance. In-line with his quiet nature, he frequently wore baseball caps and hoods while lowering his head and evading eye contact during interviews. In recent years however, he has been less passive about the invasion of his privacy. To discourage the paparazzi from taking unsolicited pictures, Chou is known to photograph the paparazzi that follow him.  He openly calls the paparazzi "dogs" and tabloids "dog magazines", as shown in his lyrics for "Besieged From All Sides" (). Chou has been reported to be romantically linked to an array of female celebrities, such as Jolin Tsai, Vivian Hsu, and Hebe Tian from S.H.E. Although each relationship (with the exception of Patty Hou) has been denied by Chou, these reports have given him a "player" image. The media and Taiwanese government has also accused Chou of evading compulsory military service by feigning to suffer from ankylosing spondylitis. Later that year he was acquitted after providing the relevant medical records and letters from the army confirming a lawful exemption from draft dated before the start of his music career.Despite constant harassment and stalking by the media, he does acknowledge that not all media attention is unwelcome."one cannot take a clear-cut stance against them (the paparazzi) … because they help you promote your name … and paparazzi will write about what the populace is most interested in."  Coverage by international journals and news agencies such as Time, The Guardian, and Reuters help ascertain his influence on mainstream culture. An editorial written by Kerry Brown of Chatham House named Chou as one of the 50 most influential figures in China, one of only three singers on a list dominated by politicians and corporate owners.FanbaseIt is difficult to estimate the size and global spread of Chou's fanbase. The Chinese-speaking population of Taiwan, Hong Kong, Singapore, Malaysia and mainland China make up the majority of his fans. Despite rampant piracy issues in this region, particularly in China, every album Chou has released so far has surpassed 2 million sales. According to Baidu, the most popular internet search engine in China, Chou is the number one searched male artist in 2002, 05, 06 and 07. Baidu's Top Searches 2002  Baidu's Top Searches 2005  [http://www.baidu.com/2006/ Baidu's Top Searches 2006]  Baidu's Top Searches 2007In Hong Kong, he has been the best-selling Mandarin artist for the past 4 years.  According to a 2004 survey in five Chinese urban centers for children ages 9 to 14, 1 in 6 named Chou as their favorite idol;  he was also reported as the favorite singer of youths aged 8 to 25 in a study conducted in seven Asian countries (2006).  He has a solid fanbase throughout Southeast Asia, including Singapore, Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia, and Vietnam. In Singapore, Chou was the second most searched celebrity behind Britney Spears in the music category.Hitwise Singapore—Top 10 Industry Search Terms—January, 2007 Currently, Chou remains largely unknown outside of Asia, except in cities with large Chinese immigrant populations such as Vancouver, Toronto, Calgary, Sydney, Los Angeles, New York and San Francisco. He has held concerts in major venues such as the MGM Grand (Las Vegas—December 25, 2002), Shrine Auditorium (Los Angeles—December 18, 2004), and Galen Center (Los Angeles—December 24, 2007). His intention to increase his prominence in the Western world beyond Chinese audiences is clear. In 2006, Chou composed and sang the theme song for Fearless, a movie released in major theatres in most English-speaking countries, though the impact to his fame has been minimal. His role in Curse of the Golden Flower (limited release) marks his acting debut in North America. Despite having a supporting but important role in the story's plot, the North American version of the official posters only featured a view of his back, greatly contrasting the Asian versions where his face and name were clear and placed between the leading actor and actress. Although Chou is still far from being well-known to English audiences, this movie has brought him international exposure.DiscographyStudio albumsDate ReleasedAlbum NameSales in Asia  (millions)ReferencesNovember 7, 2000Jay]] 周杰倫同名專輯No dataSeptember 1, 2001Fantasy]] 范特西No dataJuly 19, 2002Eight Dimensions]] 八度空間No dataJuly 31, 2003Ye Hui Mei]] 葉惠美2–3url = http://news.xinhuanet.com/ent/2003-09/10/content_1073001.htm | title = "Ye Hui Mei" sales in Asia is rising | date = 2003-09-10 | accessdate = 2007-06-02 | publisher = www.xinhuanet.comAugust 3, 2004Common Jasmin Orange 七里香3–4url = http://big5.southcn.com/gate/big5/www.southcn.com/ent/yulefirst/200409140062.htm | title = "Common Jasmin Orange" sells three million/ Jay Chou is full of pride | date = 2004-09-14 | accessdate = 2007-06-02 |publisher = southcn.comNovember 1, 2005November's Chopin 十一月的蕭邦2.5+url = http://ent.sina.com.cn/s/2005-12-31/1550946797.html | title = 2005 Celebrities countdown no. 7—Jay Chou | format = Web article | date = 2005-12-31 | accessdate = 2007-06-02 | publisher = sina.com.cn September 5, 2006Still Fantasy 依然范特西3+url = http://ent.big5.enorth.com.cn/system/2006/10/19/001437215.shtml | title = New album sold 3 million copies in Asia/ Jay Chou with poor enunciation blames Vincent Fang | publisher = enorth.com.cn | date = 2006-10-19 | accessdate = 2007-06-02  November 2, 2007On The Run]] 我很忙 October 15, 2008Capricorn]] 魔杰座Live albumsThe One Concert Live'' (Includes Eight Dimensions MV VCD)'' (October 28, 2002)2004 Incomparable Jay Concert Live 無與倫比演唱會 2004'' (January 21, 2005)Jay 2007 The World Tours Concert Live CD+DVD (January 30, 2008)CompilationsPartners—''Music by Jay Chou and lyricist Vincent Fang'' (April 26, 2002)Initial J: Jay Chou's Greatest Hits—''Japan release only'' (August 31, 2005)Extended playsFantasy Plus 范特西+ (Includes Fantasy MV VCD) (December 21, 2001)Nun-Chucks 雙截棍(April 9, 2002)Hidden Track 尋找周杰倫''(Includes Ye Hui Mei MV VCD)'' (November 12, 2003)Huo Yuan Jia 霍元甲''(Includes November's Chopin MV DVD)'' (January 20, 2006)Golden Armor 黄金甲''(Includes Still Fantasy MV DVD)'' (December 8, 2006)SoundtracksSecret 不能說的秘密(August 14, 2007)Other worksNeoprint 大頭貼—''Single, no official release''JIII MP3 Player—''MP3 player endorsed by Jay Chou featuring songs from Initial D movie, three old demos and a personal message from Jay'' (June 26, 2005)Qian Shan Wan Shui 千山万水—''Official song for the Beijing 2008's Olympic Games'' (May 2008)FilmographyHidden Track 尋找周杰倫 (2003) Cameo''Initial D'' 頭文字D (June 23, 2005) Lead actorCurse of the Golden Flower 滿城盡帶黃金甲 (December 22, 2006) Supporting actor''Secret'' 不能說的秘密 (July 27, 2007) Director, lead actorKung Fu Dunk 功夫灌籃 (February 7, 2008) Lead actorKung Fu Dunk 2 功夫灌籃 2 (2009) Lead actorNotesa. Examples of Chou's "Zhong guo feng" R&B: "East Wind Breaks" (東風破), "Hair Like Snow" (髮如雪), "Faraway" (千里之外). Examples of "Zhong guo feng" rock: "Nunchucks" (雙截棍), "Dragon Fist" (龍拳), "Golden Armor" (黃金甲).b. Examples of sound effects used in Chou's music: ping pong balls in "Third Year Second Class" (三年二班), touch-tone phone dialing in "Blue Storm" (藍色風暴), helicopter blades in "My Territory" (我的地盤), dripping rain in "You Can Hear" (妳聽得到), and radio static noise in "Nocturne" (夜曲).c. Examples of Oriental-style lyrics by Vincent Fang: "Shanghai 1943" (上海一九四三), "Wife" (娘子), and "Chrysanthemum Flower Platform" (菊花台).d. Examples of romantic lyrics by Vincent Fang: "Love Before Anno Domini" (愛在西元前), "Nocturne" (夜曲), "Common Jasmin Orange" (七里香), and "Perfectionist" (完美主義) .e. Vincent Fang's lyrics discuss war in "The Last Battle" (最後的戰役) and "Wounds That End War" (止戰之殤), the Bible in "Blue Storm" (藍色風暴), sports in "Bullfight" (鬥牛) and "Third Year Second Class" (三年二班), and martial arts in "Nunchucks" (雙截棍) and "Ninja" (忍者).f. Examples of Vivian Hsu's work: "Adorable Woman" (可愛女人), "Tornado" (龍捲風), and "Simple Love" (簡單愛).g. Unusual themes of Huan Jun Lang's lyrics: detective story in "Twilight's Chapter Seven" (夜的第七章), a chess game in "Checkmate" (將軍).h. Examples of romantic lyrics by Jay Chou: "Black Humor" (黑色幽默), "Silence" (安靜), "Iron Box Of An Island" (半島鐵盒), "Fine Day" (晴天), "Excuse" (藉口), "Black Sweater" (黑色毛衣), and "White Windmills" (白色風車).i. "Snail" (蝸牛) and "Listen To Mother's Words" (聽媽媽的話)j. Golden Melody Awards: "…the Chinese pop music industry's equivalent of the Grammy Awards in the US are held annually to award professionals making music in Mandarin, Taiwanese, Hakka and any of Taiwan's Aboriginal languages."k. A similar book was published in Japanese, titled Grandeur de D major—Jay Chou Photo Essay (ISBN 4901873504).ReferencesExternal links Official Jay Chou at JVR Music Jay Chou Official Website 周杰倫官方網站LyricsKarazen: Jay Chou Album Reviews &amp; Lyrics in Pinyin and Han CharactersAMW168—Jay Chou's Lyrics, Pics, and TranslationFansites Jaycn.comJay-Chou.netJay Chou StudioJay Chou's FC in Vietnam OtherChinese Music Blog: Jay Chou Album Reviews   Category:1979 births Category:Living people Category:People from Taipei County Category:Taiwanese actors Category:Taiwanese Mandopop singer-songwriterszh-min-nan:Chiu Kia̍t-lûn de:Jay Chou es:Jay Chou eo:Jay Chou fr:Jay Chou ko:저우제룬 id:Jay Chou it:Jay Chou ms:Jay Chou nl:Jay Chou ja:周杰倫 pl:Jay Chou pt:Jay Chou ro:Jay Chou ru:Джай Чоу th:โจว เจี๋ยหลุน vi:Châu Kiệt Luân zh-yue:周杰倫 zh:周杰倫