 Mit brennender Sorge (German for "With burning Concern,") is a Roman Catholic Church encyclical of Pope Pius XI, published on March 10, 1937 (but bearing a date of Passion Sunday, March 14). The encyclical criticized Nazism, listed breaches of an agreement signed with the Church and condemned antisemitism. Drafted by the future Pope Pius XII, who was in Munich at the time of Hitler's Beer Hall PutschPham, Heirs of the Fisherman: Behind the Scenes of Papal Death and Succession (2005), p. 45, quote: "When Pius XI was complimented on the publication, in 1937, of his encyclical denouncing Nazism, Mit Brennender Sorge, his response was to point to his Secretary of State and say bluntly, 'The credit is his.'&nbsp;", it warned Catholics that the growing Nazi ideology, which exalted one race over all others, was incompatible with Christianity. Pius XI himself in more explicit terms had elsewhere condemned anti-semitism.Vidmar, The Catholic Church Through the Ages (2005), pp. 327&ndash;33, quote: "Mark well that in the Catholic Mass, Abraham is our Patriarch and forefather. Anti-Semitism is incompatible with the lofty thought which that fact expresses. It is a movement with which we Christians can have nothing to do. No, no, I say to you it is impossible for a Christian to take part in anti-Semitism. It is inadmissible. Through Christ and in Christ we are the spiritual progeny of Abraham. Spiritually, we are all Semites."The encyclical was written in German and not the usual Latin of official Roman Catholic Church documents. It was addressed to German bishops and was read in all parish churches of Germany. Pope Pius XI credited its creation and writing to the Cardinal Secretary of State, Eugenio Cardinal Pacelli, who later became Pope Pius XII. There was no pre-announcement of the encyclical, and its distribution was kept secret in an attempt to ensure the unhindered public reading of its contents in all the Catholic Churches of Germany.This encyclical condemned particularly the paganism of the national-socialism ideology, the myth of race and blood, and the fallacy of their conception of God.Some passages stated: 8. Whoever exalts race, or the people, or the State, or a particular form of State, or the depositories of power, or any other fundamental value of the human community&mdash;however necessary and honorable be their function in worldly things&mdash;whoever raises these notions above their standard value and divinizes them to an idolatrous level, distorts and perverts an order of the world planned and created by God; he is far from the true faith in God and from the concept of life which that faith upholds...10. This God, this Sovereign Master, has issued commandments whose value is independent of time and space, country and race. As God's sun shines on every human face so His law knows neither privilege nor exception. Rulers and subjects, crowned and uncrowned, rich and poor are equally subject to His word. From the fullness of the Creators' right there naturally arises the fullness of His right to be obeyed by individuals and communities, whoever they are. This obedience permeates all branches of activity in which moral values claim harmony with the law of God, and pervades all integration of the ever-changing laws of man into the immutable laws of God.11. None but superficial minds could stumble into concepts of a national God, of a national religion; or attempt to lock within the frontiers of a single people, within the narrow limits of a single race, God, the Creator of the universe, King and Legislator of all nations before whose immensity they are "as a drop of a bucket" (Isaiah xl, 15). EffectAfter Mit Brennender Sorge was disseminated throughout German Catholic parishes, Nazi persecution of the Church Germany began by "outright repression" and "staged prosecutions of monks for homosexuality, with the maximum of publicity. In Poland, the Nazis murdered over 2500 monks and priests while scores more were sent to concentration camps.Chadwick, A History of Christianity (1995), pp. 254&ndash;5Notes and referencesBibliographyExternal links[http://www.vatican.va/holy_father/pius_xi/encyclicals/documents/hf_p-xi_enc_14031937_mit-brennender-sorge_en.html Mit brennender Sorge in English on Vatican.va][http://www.stjosef.at/dokumente/mit_brennender_sorge.htm Mit brennender Sorge in German on StJosef.at]Category:Nazi Germany Category:Papal encyclicals Category:History of Catholicism in Germany Category:Pope Pius XI Category:Pope Pius XIIcs:Mit brennender Sorge de:Mit brennender Sorge es:Mit brennender Sorge fr:Mit brennender Sorge ga:Mit brennender Sorge id:Mit brennender Sorge it:Mit brennender Sorge la:Mit brennender Sorge nl:Mit brennender Sorge no:Mit brennender Sorge pl:Mit brennender Sorge pt:Mit brennender Sorge sk:Mit brennender Sorge sl:Mit brennender Sorge sv:Mit brennender Sorge