  | birthplace = Charlottesville, Virginia, U.S. | birthname = Robert Hepler Lowe | spouse = Sheryl Berkoff (22 July 1991–present) 2 children | goldenraspberryawards = Worst Supporting Actor1986 St. Elmo's Fire | sagawards = Outstanding Performance by an Ensemble in a Drama Series2000, 2001 The West Wing Robert Hepler Lowe (born March 17, 1964) is an American actor. He became famous after appearing in popular 1980s movies such as The Outsiders and St. Elmo's Fire, which included other members of the Brat Pack. Lowe is also known for his role as Sam Seaborn on The West Wing and as Senator Robert McCallister on Brothers &amp; Sisters.BiographyEarly lifeLowe was born in Charlottesville, Virginia, the son of Barbara (née Hepler), a teacher, and Charles Lowe, a trial lawyer;Rob Lowe Biography (1964-) the two divorced when Lowe was young. His mother took Lowe and his younger brother, actor Chad Lowe, to California. He also has two step-siblings. Because of a virus during infancy, he is deaf in his right ear. Lowe was baptized into the Episcopal church, though his maternal grandparents were Methodists.Pretty witty | Interviews | guardian.co.uk Film&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; He was raised in a "traditional midwestern setting" in Dayton, Ohio; having attended Oakwood High School before moving to the Westside of Los Angeles. He attended Santa Monica High School, the same high school as fellow actors Emilio Estevez, Charlie Sheen, Sean Penn, and Chris Penn.Early film and television careerLowe made his film debut in Schoolboy Father, followed by Class. His breakthrough came in 1983, when he and Estevez were cast in The Outsiders, which remains one of his most famous roles. Lowe and Estevez reunited in St. Elmo's Fire, making them the two more popular boys of the Brat Pack. He followed it up with About Last Night.Lowe is also known for playing Sam Seaborn in the television series The West Wing from 1999 to 2003. His performance in the show garnered Lowe an Emmy and two Golden Globe Award Nominations for Best Actor in a Drama Series. When the show premiered, Seaborn was considered the lead, and the pilot centered on the character. But the acclaimed cast of the show—including Allison Janney, Richard Schiff, Dulé Hill, John Spencer, Bradley Whitford, Martin Sheen (whose President Bartlet was initially scripted as a small role) and Stockard Channing (whose First Lady was initially scripted as a guest role)—meant that Sam Seaborn could no longer be considered the lead character.While he reluctantly accepted his demotion, Lowe and series creator Aaron Sorkin soon found themselves at odds over the network's meddling with the show, most notably the network demanding changes in the Sam Seaborn character. Eventually, Lowe left the series, not long before Sorkin and director/executive producer Thomas Schlamme unceremoniously quit over a dispute with NBC. During the final season of The West Wing, Lowe returned to his role of Sam Seaborn, appearing in two of the final four episodes.After leaving the show, Lowe was star and executive producer of a failed NBC drama, The Lyon's Den (2003). In 2004, he tried again in a series entitled Dr. Vegas, but it also was quickly canceled. In 2005, he starred as Lieutenant Daniel Kaffee in a London West End production of Sorkin's play A Few Good Men, the first time the two had worked together since The West Wing. Although Lowe had expressed unhappiness about his decreased role on that show at the time of his departure, he has now repeatedly said that any animosity between them is over and that he was pleased to be working once more with Sorkin, whose talents as a writer Lowe highly regards. Lowe passed on the role of Dr. Derek Shepard of Grey's Anatomy, which eventually went to Patrick Dempsey.Lowe knows political roles - USATODAY.com&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Recent television workDespite his two canceled TV series and flops like View From the Top and the made-for-TV movie Perfect Strangers during his post–''West Wing'' run, Lowe found success in the TV miniseries genre. 2004 marked his return to this genre; he had appeared in 1994's The Stand, based on Stephen King's book of the same name. In 2004, Lowe starred in the TNT remake of the Stephen King miniseries 'Salem's Lot which was the highest rated cable program of that summer and the highest ratings TNT original programming had at the time. In 2005, Lowe starred in the miniseries Beach Girls on the Lifetime network, based on the Luanne Rice novel of the same name. The series premiere received the highest ratings for a movie premiere in Lifetime history. In that same year, Lowe filmed his critically acclaimed role as super movie agent in the 2006 independent film Thank You for Smoking. In 2006, he filmed The Perfect Day for TNT, in which he took a pay cut to film in New Orleans in order to help the hurricane ravaged area. That same year, Lowe filmed Stir of Echoes: The Homecoming, the "sequel" to the 1999 Kevin Bacon thriller Stir of Echoes.In 2006, it was announced that Lowe would join the cast of Brothers &amp; Sisters for a guest run of several episodes. In January 2007, ABC announced that Lowe would be staying on Brothers and Sisters as a "special guest star" for the rest of season 1 after Lowe's initial appearance on the show in November 2006 brought the best ratings and demographic showing for the show since its premiere. Soon after ABC announced an early season 2 renewal for Brother & Sisters in March 2007, Lowe announced he would be returning for the show's second season.In June 2006, he was the guest host for an episode in the third series of The Friday Night Project for the United Kingdom's Channel 4.Lowe has also appeared in a televised advertisement for 'Visit California', among with other celebrities including Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger.Sex tape controversyIn 1988, Lowe was involved in a sex scandal over a videotape of him having sex with two females, one of whom was sixteen, in Atlanta while attending the 1988 Democratic National Convention. Lowe has asserted that he did not know that the second girl was underage, and it was confirmed that the two had met at a bar, which the girl entered by lying about her age.Another part of the same tape was leaked at the time, showing Lowe, a young American model named Jennifer, and Justin Morris having a ménage à trois in a hotel room in Paris. This part of the original tape was sold as one of the first commercially available celebrity sex tapes, damaging his public image.Ogunnaike, L. (2006). "Sex, Lawsuits and Celebrities Caught on Tape" The New York Times. Retrieved January 1, 2007. He later entered a rehabilitation clinic for alcohol and sex addiction. Eventually, his career rebounded and Lowe mocked his own behavior during two post-scandal appearances as host of Saturday Night Live.Personal lifeLowe is married to Sheryl Berkoff, with whom he has two children, Matthew Edward Lowe (b. Sept 1993), and John Owen Lowe (b. Jan 1995). They live in Montecito, California.Lowe was the first male spokesperson for the 2000 Lee National Denim Day fundraiser, which raises millions of dollars for breast cancer research and education. His grandmother and great-grandmother both suffered from breast cancer, and his mother succumbed to the disease in late 2003.Lowe is a founder of the Homeowner's Defense Fund, a Santa Barbara County non-profit, non-partisan organization dedicated to local control of land-use planning and transparency in government.Homeowner's Defense Fund The average price of tract homes in Santa Barbara in early 2006 was $1,100,000, which motivated some to propose denser housing on existing lots. While in favor of increasing housing density, he has sought to build a 14,260 square-foot mansion for himself in Montecito, California.Santa Barbara County Planning and Development&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; Lowe's protest over the appearance of the address of the empty lot in the Santa Barbara News-Press precipitated a mass resignation of senior employees at that newspaper on July 6, 2006,[http://www.webcitation.org/5PLw24OSn American Journalism Review, December/January 2006, (archived in WebCite on June 4, 2007)] and was a proximate cause of the Santa Barbara News-Press controversy.Nanny lawsuit casesIn April 2008, Lowe filed separate lawsuits against 3 former employees accusing them of breach of contract, defamation and intentional infliction of emotional distress. Lowe accuses an ex-nanny of engaging in a scheme to hurt the couple by spreading "malicious lies". Another ex-nanny is accused of falsely claiming to have a personal and intimate relationship with Lowe, and also repeatedly expressing romantic interest in Rob, claiming that Lowe sexually harassed her and that Sheryl Lowe was an abusive employer. Lowe claims a former chef engaged in sex on their bed with third parties when the family was out of town, stole prescription drugs from the Lowes, broke several security cameras, overcharged them for food, and allegedly made statements to various people that Sheryl was heartless, cold and unclean. Rob Lowe Sues Three Ex-Employees in Extortion Claim Jessica Gibson, 24-year-old former nanny for Lowe, made 12 allegations against Lowe involving sexual harassment claims and labor-code violations. On June 19, 2008, Santa Barbara, California, Superior Court Judge Denise de Bellefeuille dismissed two allegations regarding labor-code violations due to lack of legal basis. Lowe's next hearing was set for July 10, 2008.FilmographySchoolboy Father (1980)Class (1983)The Outsiders (1983)Oxford Blues (1984)The Hotel New Hampshire (1984)St. Elmo's Fire (1985)Youngblood (1986)About Last Night... (1986)Square Dance (1987)Illegally Yours (1988)Masquerade (1988)Bad Influence (1990)The Finest Hour (1991)Wayne's World (1992)The Stand (1994)Tommy Boy (1995)Frank &amp; Jesse (1995)On Dangerous Ground (1996) (TV)Contact (1997)For Hire (1997)''Hostile Intent (1997)Austin Powers: International Man of Mystery (1997) (cameo)Austin Powers: The Spy Who Shagged Me (1999)The West Wing (1999-2003, 2006)Atomic Train (1999)Proximity (2000)The Specials (2000)The Christmas Shoes (2002)Austin Powers in Goldmember (2002)View from the Top (2003)Framed (2003)Perfect Strangers (2004)'Salem's Lot (2004)Beach Girls (TV Miniseries) (2005)The Christmas Blessing (2005)Thank You for Smoking (2006)Brothers &amp; Sisters (2006 -)A Perfect Day (2006)This Side of the Truth (2009)ReferencesExternal linksRobLowe.com - Updated Daily  Category:1964 births Category:American Episcopalians Category:American film actors Category:American stage actors Category:American television actors Category:Living people Category:Ohio actors Category:People from Dayton, Ohio Category:People from Virginia Category:Sex scandals Category:Worst Supporting Actor Razzie winnersar:روب لوو cy:Rob Lowe de:Rob Lowe es:Rob Lowe fr:Rob Lowe id:Rob Lowe it:Rob Lowe he:רוב לאו nl:Rob Lowe ja:ロブ・ロウ pl:Rob Lowe pt:Rob Lowe fi:Rob Lowe sv:Rob Lowe