Johan Christian Fabricius (January 7, 1745 - March 3, 1808) was a Danish entomologist and economist.Fabricius was born at Tønder in the duchy of Schleswig. He studied at the gymnasium at Altona and entered the University of Copenhagen in 1762. Later the same year he travelled together with his friend and relative Johan Zoega to Uppsala, where he studied under Carl von Linné for two years.Fabricius worked primarily with arthropods and was a specialist on insects, classifying many spiders including the black widow. He was professor of natural history, economy and finance at the University of Kiel from 1775. He was a regular visitor to London where he studied many collections.His works on insects included:Genera Insectorum (1776),Species Insectorum (1781),Mantissa Insectorum (1787), and his main work,Entomologicae Systematica I-IV, (1792-1794) followed bySupplementum Entomologiae Systematicae (1798).His works on economy included:Von der Volks-Vermehrung insonderheit in Dännemark. Hamburg und Kiel, bey C. E. Bohn, 1781. 88 pp.Fabricius' collections are shared between theNatural History Museum, LondonMuséum national d'histoire naturelle, ParisHope Department of Entomology, OxfordHunterian Museum and Art Gallery, GlasgowZoologische Museum in KielNatural History Museum of Denmark, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen.ReferencesBiography of Johan Christian Fabricius, in Dansk biografisk leksikon, 1st edition, Vol. 5 (1891), scanned original text on Projekt Runeberg (in Danish)ZMCU Collection contents online Digital version of Entomologia systematica, emendata et auctaHenriksen, Kai L. (1932) Johann Christian Fabricius, pp. 76-80 in: Meisen, V. Prominent Danish Scientists through the Ages. University Library of Copenhagen 450th Anniversary. Levin & Munksgaard, Copenhagen.   Category:Arachnologists Category:Carcinologists Category:Danish entomologists Category:Dipteristscs:Johan Christian Fabricius da:Johann Christian Fabricius de:Johann Christian Fabricius es:Johan Christian Fabricius fr:Johan Christian Fabricius it:Johan Christian Fabricius lt:Johan Christian Fabricius nl:Johann Christian Fabricius no:Johann Christian Fabricius pl:Johan Christian Fabricius pt:Johan Christian Fabricius ru:Фабриций, Иоганн Христиан sk:Johann Christian Fabricius fi:Johann Christian Fabricius sv:Johan Christian Fabricius uk:Фабрицій Йоганн Християн