The Sanderling (Calidris alba, syn. Crocethia alba or Erolia alba) is a small wader. It is a circumpolar Arctic breeder, and is a long-distance migrant, wintering south to South America, South Europe, Africa, and Australia. It is highly gregarious in winter, sometimes forming large flocks on coastal mudflats or sandy beaches.It is somewhat unlike other sandpipers in appearance, which has led to the suggestion that it should be placed into a monotypic genus Crocethia. A more recent review (Thomas et al., 2004) indicates, however, that the sanderling is a fairly typical "stint" or small sandpiper and should be separated from the large knots with its closest relatives in a distinct genus., Orissa, India.]]This bird is similar in size to a Dunlin, but stouter, with a thick bill. It shows a strong white wingbar in flight, and runs along the sandy beaches it prefers with a characteristic "bicycling" action, stopping frequently to pick small food items. It eats small crabs and other small invertebrates. In spring, birds migrating north from South America consume large numbers of horseshoe crab eggs in the Delaware Bay area.In spring, the birds arrival on the High Arctic breeding grounds (see map), where they lay 3-4 eggs in a ground scrape. Later in the summer, the face and throat become brick-red. On the nesting grounds, these birds mainly eat insects and some plant material.The winter bird is very pale, almost white apart from a dark shoulder patch. This is the source of the specific name, alba, which is the Latin for "white". The juvenile bird is spangled black and white, and shows much more contrast than the adult.Sanderling behavior is distinctive, but visually, if the size is misjudged, a breeding plumage sanderling can be mistaken for some varieties of stint, or a winter plumage sanderling can be mistaken for a Dunlin or Red Knot. It can be told from other small wading birds, given good views, by its lack of a hind toe.The Sanderling is one of the species to which the Agreement on the Conservation of African-Eurasian Migratory Waterbirds (AEWA) applies.A Sanderling is referenced in the 2008 album "CSI: Ambleside" by Half Man Half Biscuit. in the song "National Shite Day" -"He’d only been locked up for public nuisance offences One of which saw him beachcombing the Dee Estuary Found a dead wading bird Took it home, parcelled it up, and sent it off to the rubber-faced irritant Phil Cool With a note inside which read: “Is this your Sanderling?”"External linksSanderling videos on the Internet Bird CollectionSanderling Species Account - Cornell Lab of Ornithology[http://www.mbr-pwrc.usgs.gov/id/framlst/i2480id.html Sanderling Calidris alba] - USGS Patuxent Bird Identification InfoCenterSanderling Information - South Dakota Birds and Birding Image:SanderlingsRunningFromWavesCropped.jpg|A flock of sanderlings displaying their distinctive behavior of running with the ebb and flow of waves (while feeding). Taken Winter 2005, at Willapa Bay, near Tokeland, Washington, USA. Image:Calidris_albaZZ.jpg|''Calidris alba'' Image:OneLeggedSanderling.jpg|A resting sanderling at the Monterey Bay Aquarium aviary. Image: Calidris-alba-001.jpg|A sanderling in winter plumage  Category:Calidris Category:Erolia Category:Shorebirds Category:Birds of Puerto Rico Category:Birds of Kenya Category:Birds of Europe Category:Birds of South Australia Category:Birds of Western Australia Category:Birds of Turkey Category:British Isles coastal faunabg:Трипръст брегобегач ca:Territ de tres dits cy:Pibydd y Tywod de:Sanderling es:Calidris alba eo:Sablokalidro fr:Bécasseau sanderling gl:Pilro tridáctilo it:Calidris alba lt:Smiltinukas hu:Fenyérfutó ms:Burung Kedidi Kapak nl:Drieteenstrandloper ja:ミユビシギ no:Sandløper pl:Piaskowiec (ptak) pt:Pilrito-das-praias sk:Pobrežník belavý fi:Pulmussirri sv:Sandlöpare to:Kiu vave tr:Ak kum kuşu