Freinet redirects here, there is also a village La Garde-Freinet in the French Arrondissement of Draguignan (Var)Célestin Freinet (15 October 1896&ndash;8 October 1966) was a noted French pedagogue, and educational reformer.Early lifeFreinet was born in Provence as the fifth of eight children. His own schooldays were deeply unpleasant to him, and would affect his teaching methods and desire for reform. In 1915 he was recruited into the French army and was wounded in the lung, an experience that led him to becoming a resolute pacifist.In 1920 he became an elementary schoolteacher in the village of Le Bar-sur-Loup. It was here that Freinet began to develop his teaching methods.Educational reformsIn 1923 Freinet purchased a printing press, originally to assist with his teaching, since his lung injury made it difficult for him to talk for long periods. It was with this press he printed free texts and class newspapers for his students. The children would compose their own works on the press, and would discuss and edit them as a group before presenting them as a team effort. They would regularly leave the classroom to conduct field trips. The newspapers were exchanged with those from other schools. Gradually the group texts replaced conventional school books.Freinet created the teachers' trade union C.E.L. (Coopérative de l'Enseignement Laïc) in 1924, from which arose the French teacher movement Modern School Movement (Mouvement de l'École Moderne). The goal of the C.E.L was to change public education from the inside with the co-operation of teachers.Freinet's teaching methods were at variance with official policy of the National Education Board, and he resigned from it in 1935 to start his own school in Vence.Concepts of Freinet's pedagogyPedagogy of work (pédagogie du travail): pupils were encouraged to learn by making products or providing services.Enquiry-based learning (tâtonnement expérimental): group-based trial and error work.Cooperative learning (travail coopératif): pupils were to co-operate in the production process.Centres of interest (complexe d'intérêt): the children's interests and natural curiosity are starting points for a learning processThe natural method (méthode naturelle): authentic learning by using real experiences of children.Democracy: children learn to take responsibility for their own work and for the whole community by using democratic self government.LegacyFreinet's work lives on in the name of Pédagogie Freinet, or the Modern School Movement, practised in many countries worldwide.The Institut universitaire de formation des maîtres (teacher training university) of Nice bears the name of Célestin Freinet.Finland's school system, which was first in math, reading, and science in the international OECD examination PISA, is based on Freinet's teachings.ReferencesAcker, Victor: Celestin Freinet. Greenwood Press, 2000. ISBN 0313309949Freinet, C.: Education through work: A model for child centered learning. Edwin Mellen Press, New York 1993. ISBN 0-7734-9303-4See alsoPopular educationExternal linksWebsite on the history of Freinet PedagogyOverview of Freinet movements worldwide (in French)Database for Literature Freinet-Pedagogy with languagefiles  Category:1896 births Category:1966 deaths Category:Educators Category:French educators Category:Popular educationbg:Селестин Френе ca:Célestin Freinet de:Célestin Freinet es:Célestin Freinet eo:Célestin Freinet fr:Célestin Freinet fy:Célestin Freinet io:Célestin Freinet it:Célestin Freinet nl:Célestin Freinet ja:セレスティン・フレネ pl:Celestyn Freinet pt:Célestin Freinet sv:Célestin Freinet zh:瑟勒斯坦·佛勒內