 Streaming multimedia is multimedia that is constantly received by, and normally presented to, an end-user while it is being delivered by a streaming provider (the term "presented" is used in this article in a general sense that includes audio or video playback). The name refers to the delivery method of the medium rather than to the medium itself. The distinction is usually applied to media that are distributed over telecommunications networks, as most other delivery systems are either inherently streaming (e.g. radio, television) or inherently non-streaming (e.g. books, video cassettes, audio CDs). The verb 'to stream' is also derived from this term, meaning to deliver media in this manner.HistoryAttempts to display media on computers date back to the earliest days of computing, in the mid-20th century. However, little progress was made for several decades, primarily due to the high cost and limited capabilities of computer hardware.From the late 1980s through the 1990s, consumer-grade personal computers became powerful enough to display various media. The primary technical issues with streaming were:having enough CPU power and bus bandwidth to support the required data ratescreating low-latency interrupt paths in the OS to prevent buffer underrunHowever, computer networks were still limited, and media was usually delivered over non-streaming channels, such as CD-ROMs.The late 1990s and early 2000s, internet users saw:greater network bandwidth, especially in the last mileincreased access to networks, especially the Internetuse of standard protocols and formats, such as TCP/IP, HTTP, and HTMLcommercialization of the InternetThese advances in computer networking combined with powerful home computers and modern operating systems made streaming media practical and affordable for ordinary consumers. Stand-alone Internet radio devices are offering listeners a "no-computer" option for listening to audio streams.In general, multimedia content is large, so media storage and transmission costs are still significant; to offset this somewhat, media is generally compressed for both storage and streaming.A media stream can be on demand or live. On demand streams are stored on a server for a long period of time, and are available to be transmitted at a user's request. Live streams are only available at one particular time, as in a video stream of a live sporting event.Research in streaming media is ongoing and representative research can be found at the Journal of Multimedia.Streaming bandwidth and storageStreaming media storage size (in the common file system measurements megabytes, gigabytes, terabytes, and so on) is calculated from streaming bandwidth and length of the media with the following formula (for a single user and file):storage size (in megabytes) = length (in seconds) * bit rate (in kbit/s) / (8 * 1024)(since 1 megabyte = 8 * 1,024 kbits)Real world example:One hour of video encoded at 300 kbit/s (this is a typical broadband video for 2005 and it's usually encoded in a 320&times;240 pixels window size) will be:(3,600 s * 300 kbit/s) / (8*1024) give around 130 MB of storageIf the file is stored on a server for on-demand streaming and this stream is viewed by 1,000 people at the same time using a Unicast protocol, you would need:300 kbit/s * 1,000 = 300,000 kbit/s = 300 Mbit/s of bandwidthThis is equivalent to around 125 GiB per hour. Of course, using a Multicast protocol the server sends out only a single stream that is common to all users. Hence, such a stream would only use 300 kbit/s of serving bandwidth. See below for more information on these protocols.Protocol issues Designing a network protocol to support streaming media raises many issues, such as:Datagram protocols, such as the User Datagram Protocol (UDP), send the media stream as a series of small packets. This is simple and efficient; however, there is no mechanism within the protocol to guarantee delivery. It is up to the receiving application to detect loss or corruption and recover data using error correction techniques. If data is lost, the stream may suffer a dropout.The Real-time Streaming Protocol (RTSP), Real-time Transport Protocol (RTP) and the Real-time Transport Control Protocol (RTCP) were specifically designed to stream media over networks. The latter two are built on top of UDP.Reliable protocols, such as the Transmission Control Protocol (TCP), guarantee correct delivery of each bit in the media stream. However, they accomplish this with a system of timeouts and retries, which makes them more complex to implement. It also means that when there is data loss on the network, the media stream stalls while the protocol handlers detect the loss and retransmit the missing data. Clients can minimize the effect of this by buffering data for display.Unicast protocols send a separate copy of the media stream from the server to each recipient. Unicast is the norm for most Internet connections, but does not scale well when many users want to view the same program concurrently.Multicast protocols were developed to reduce the data replication (and consequent server/network loads) that occur when many recipients receive Unicast content streams independently. These protocols send a single stream from the source to a group of recipients. Depending on the network infrastructure and type, Multicast transmission may or may not be feasible. One potential disadvantage of multicasting is the loss of video on demand functionality. Continuous streaming of radio or television material usually precludes the recipient's ability to control playback. However, this problem can be mitigated by elements such as caching servers, digital set-top boxes, and buffered media players.IP Multicast provides a means to send a single media stream to a group of recipients on a computer network. One of the challenges in deploying IP multicast is that routers and firewalls between LANs must allow the passage of packets destined to multicast groups. If the organization that is serving the content has control over the network between server and recipients (i.e., educational, government, and corporate intranets), then routing protocols such as IGMP and PIM can be used to deliver stream content to multiple LAN segments.Peer-to-peer (P2P) protocols arrange for prerecorded streams to be sent between computers. This prevents the server and its network connections from becoming a bottleneck. However, it raises technical, performance, quality, business, and legal issues.See alsoDestreamingList of streaming media systemsPush technologyCategory:Multimediaar:بث حي ca:Flux de dades cs:Streaming da:Streaming media de:Streaming Media es:Streaming fr:Lecture en continu ko:스트리밍 미디어 is:Streymimiðlun it:Streaming hu:Streaming media nl:Streaming media ja:ストリーミング no:Streaming pl:Media strumieniowe pt:Streaming sv:Streaming tr:Gerçek zamanlı veri akışı zh:串流媒體