 Ningxia (; Postal map spelling: Ningsia), full name Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region (), is a Hui autonomous region of the People's Republic of China, located on the northwest Loess highland, the Yellow River flows through a vast area of its land. The capital of the region is Yinchuan.HistoryNingxia and its surrounding areas were incorporated into the Qin Dynasty as early as the third century. Throughout the Han Dynasty and the Tang Dynasty there were several large cities established in the region, and by the eleventh century the Tangut tribe had established the Western Xia Dynasty on the outskirts of the then Song Dynasty.It then came under Mongol domination after Genghis Khan conquered Yinchuan in the early thirteenth century. After the Mongols departed and its influences faded, some Turkic-speaking Muslims also began moving into Ningxia from the west. In the Muslim Rebellion of the 19th century, during which Qing authorities decimated Chinese Muslim populations by killing upwards of twelve million Muslims throughout China.In 1914, Ningxia was merged with the province of Gansu; in 1928, however, it was detached and became a province. Between 1914 and 1928, the Xibei San Ma brothers (literally "three Mas of the northwest") ruled the provinces of Qinghai, Ningxia and Gansu. In 1958, Ningxia formally became an autonomous region of China. In 1969, Ningxia's border was extended to the north and acquired parts of the Inner Mongolia autonomous region, but was reverted again in 1979.GeographyNingxia borders the provinces of Shaanxi and Gansu, and the Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region.Rivers that flow through Ningxia include the Yellow River.Ningxia is a relatively dry, desert-like region. There is significant irrigation in order to support the growing of wolfberries (a commonly consumed fruit throughout the region).Ningxia's deserts include the Tengger desert in Shapotou.On 16 December 1920, the Haiyuan earthquake, 8.6 magnitude, at , initiated a series of landslides that killed an estimated 200,000 people. Over 600 large loess landslides created more than 40 new lakes.Close, U., and McCormick (1922) "Where the mountains walked" National Geographic Magazine 41(5): pp.445–464.Feng, X. and Guo, A. (1985) "Earthquake landslides in China" In Proceedings, IVth International Conference and Field Workshop on Landslides pp. 339–346, Japan Landslide Society, Tokyo, OCLC 70324350.In 2006, satellite images indicated that a 700 by 200-meter fenced area within Ningxia—5&nbsp;km southwest of Yinchuan, near the remote village of Huangyangtan—is a near-exact scaled-down reproduction of a 450 by 350-kilometer area of Aksai Chin bordering India, complete with mountains, valleys, lakes and hills. Its purpose is as yet unknown.Haines, Lester (19 July 2006).&quot;Chinese black helicopters circle Google Earth&quot;. The RegisterCassidy, Katherine (13 September 2006). &quot;Armchair Sleuths Uncover Strange Military Sites in China&quot;. McClatchy Newspapers / Real Cities Network. ClimateThe region is 1,200&nbsp;km from the sea and has a continental climate with average summer temperatures rising to between 17 and 24°C in July and average winter temperatures dropping to between -7 and -10°C in January. Seasonal extreme temperatures can reach 39°C in summer and -30°C in winter. The diurnal temperature variation in summer is 17°C. Annual rainfall averages from 190 to 700 millimeters, with more rain falling in the south of the region.Administrative divisions Ningxia is divided into five prefecture-level cities:Guyuan (固原 | Gùyuán Shì)Shizuishan (石嘴山 | Shízuishan Shì)Wuzhong (吴忠 | Wúzhong Shì)Yinchuan (银川 | Yínchuān Shì) (capital city)Zhongwei (中卫 | Zhōngwèi Shì)DemographicsNingxia is the home of the Hui, one of the officially recognized Nationalities of China.Politics The politics of Ningxia is structured in a dual party-government system like all other governing institutions in mainland China.The Chairman of the Autonomous Region is the highest ranking official in the People's Government of Ningxia. However, in the Autonomous Region's dual party-government governing system, the Chairman has less power than the Communist Party of China Ningxia Committee Secretary, colloquially termed the "Ningxia CPC Party Chief".EconomyNingxia is the province with the third smallest GDP (Tibet being the last) in the PRC. Its nominal GDP in 2007 was just 83.4 billion yuan (US$11 billion) and a per capita GDP of 13,743 yuan (US$1,807). It contributes 0.3% of the national economy.Ningxia is the principal region of China where wolfberries are grown.UniversitiesNingxia UniversityNingxia Medical CollegeThe Second Northwest Institute For Ethnic MinoritiesTourismOne of Ningxia's main tourist spots is the famous Xixia Tombs site located 30&nbsp;km west of Yinchuan. The remnants of nine Western Xia emperors' tombs and two hundred other tombs lie within a 50-km² area. Other famous sites in Ningxia include Helan Shan, the mysterious 108 dagobas, the twin pagodas of Baisikou and the desert research outpost at Shapatou.Gallery Image:Xixia_tombs.JPG |Western Xia Tombs Image:Helan_shan.JPG |From a cable car running to the top of Helan Shan Image:Yinchuan_aerial.JPG |Aerial view of Yinchuan Image:Yinchuan_square.JPG |People's Square in Yinchuan Image:Yinchuan_fountain.JPG|Fountain in Yinchuan Image:108_Dagobas.JPG |The 108 dagobas near Qingtongxia Image:Rich Nature Wolfberry Farm1 7-06.jpg|Wolfberry harvest celebration Notes See http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Footnotes for an explanation of how to generate footnotes using the  and  tags. -- External linksNingxia Government website  Category:Ningxia Category:Autonomous regions of the People's Republic of China ar:نينغشيا bg:Нинся-хуейски автономен регион ca:Ningxia cs:Ning-sia da:Ningxia de:Ningxia et:Ningxia es:Ningxia eo:Ningŝjao eu:Ningxia fr:Ningxia gv:Ningxia ko:닝샤 후이족 자치구 hi:निंग्स्या id:Ningxia it:Ningxia he:נינגשיה ka:ნინძია-ხუეი lt:Ningsia hu:Ningxia ms:Ningxia nl:Ningxia ja:寧夏回族自治区 no:Ningxia Hui nn:Ningxia pl:Ningxia pt:Ningxia ro:Ningxia ru:Нинся-Хуэйский автономный район sh:Ningxia fi:Ningxia sv:Ningxia tl:Ningxia th:เขตปกครองตนเองหนิงเซี่ยหุย vi:Ninh Hạ zh:宁夏回族自治区