The current coat of arms of Hungary was adopted on July 3, 1990, after the end of the Communist regime.The arms have been used before, both with and without the Crown of Saint Stephen, sometimes as part of a larger, more complex coat of arms, and many of its elements date back to the Middle Ages.The herald is split to two parts:The right side consists of a silver double cross on red base, situated inside a small golden crown, the crown is placed on the middle heap of three green hills, representing mountain ranges (Mátra, Tátra, Fátra), (strictly in this order) as written in István Werbőczy's 'Tripartitium', but this is not explained there. The first explanation of the hills are from a Portuguese jesuit Antonius Macedo in his work "Divi Tutelares..." from 1687, writing: "mons essurgit numero triplex qui tres praecipuos eiusdem regni monti significant", but not naming them. Later in 18th century, two other jesuits, József Koller in "Cerographia" and Timon "Imago Novae Hungariae" state that "Alteram scuti partem Montes Regni praecipui, iique summi insigniunt. Nomen illis: Tatra, Matra, Fatra vulgare passim (...) atque omnium est cognitum". Timon adds, that the double cross is ancient symbol of Kingdom of Hungary, to which the three hills were connected. Finally, a not well-known theory for the triple hills is that it symbolizes the hills of Calvaria (Golgota), where Jesus was crucified.On the left side is the so-called Árpád stripes, four silver and four red stripes. It is usually said that the silver stripes represent four rivers (Duna, Tisza, Dráva, Száva).Historycenter|90px]]center|90px]]center|75px]]center|150px]]center|150px]]center|90px]]center|90px]]center|90px]]center|90px]]Since 1990 the historical crowned small coat of arms has served as the official symbol of the Hungarian Republic.In the first democratically elected Parliament there was considerable debate about the depiction of the Holy Crown on the coat of arms. The liberal opposition party (Alliance of Free Democrats, SZDSZ) proposed the Kossuth-style "Republican" version but the conservative government backed the historical crowned one. After the majority decision the restored coat of arms with the crown soon became generally accepted by every political party and there is a national consensus around them.External linksThe Hungarian Coat of Arms and the law regulating its use. In Hungarian; with downloadable picturesThe Hungarian Coat of ArmsHistory of the Coat of Arms of Hungary (in Hungarian, with pictures)History of the Coat of Arms of Hungary from Szeged University (in Hungarian, with pictures)See alsoCoat of Arms of SlovakiaHungarian heraldryCategory:National symbols of Hungary Hungarybe:Герб Венгрыі be-x-old:Герб Вугоршчыны bs:Grb Mađarske bg:Герб на Унгария cs:Státní znak Maďarska de:Ungarisches Wappen et:Ungari vapp el:Εθνόσημο της Ουγγαρίας es:Escudo de Hungría eo:Blazono de Hungario fr:Armoiries de la Hongrie gl:Escudo de Hungría hr:Grb Mađarske bpy:হাঙ্গেরীর চিনত্হান he:סמל הונגריה hu:Magyarország címere ms:Jata Hungary nl:Wapen van Hongarije no:Ungarns riksvåpen pl:Herb Węgier pt:Brasão de armas da Hungria ro:Stema Ungariei ru:Герб Венгрии sr:Грб Мађарске sh:Grb Mađarske sv:Ungerns statsvapen vi:Quốc huy Hungary udm:Венгрилэн гербез uk:Герб Угорщини zh:匈牙利国徽