  September 9, 1970 21 December, 1971 (NYC) 8 July, 1971 | runtime = 100 min | country = France | language = French | preceded_by = Stolen Kisses | followed_by = Love on the Run | amg_id = 1:84651 | imdb_id = 0065651  Bed and Board () is a 1970 French film directed by François Truffaut. It belongs to Truffaut's series of five films about Antoine Doinel, and directly follows Stolen Kisses, showing the married life of Antoine (Jean-Pierre Léaud) and Christine (Claude Jade).Synopsis  Antoine (Jean-Pierre Léaud) married the winsome and intelligent Christine (Claude Jade) from Stolen Kisses. Christine gives violin lessons to children in their living room, and Antoine dyes and sells flowers directly beneath their window. Antoine and Christine are like presexual kids playing at marriage. Whenever we see them in bed together, they're reading. When he reaches over to touch her breasts it's only to point out that they don't match. (He then wants to name them like Don Quixote and Sancho Panza or Laurel and Hardy). Later Christine becomes pregnant. Mindful that Antoine is having an affair with a Japanese beauty, Christine decks herself out as a faux Madame Butterfly to greet him one evening in their apartment. Christine leaves him. Later, she and Antoine are reconciled when they realize that they miss each other's company. Although Antoine ultimately returns to Christine, the ending of the movie is notably unromantic. The joke is that they've become a typical married couple. The future of the relationship is more telling in an earlier scene between Antoine and Christine just after they've broken up. He's been to visit their son, Alphonse, and he walks her through the now dark and empty courtyard to a cab. She lashes out at him for the first time: "All you know is what you want. A kiss when you want it! Solitude when you want it! I'm not 'yours on command.' Not anymore." He laments how unhappy he'll be until he can finish his novel. He then declares: "You are my sister, my daughter, my mother." Christine replies simply, "I'd hoped to be your wife."ReferencesThe scene that splits between Antoine (Jean-Pierre Léaud) telling a friend about his relationship with his wife and Christine (Claude Jade) doing the same with another friend. Woody Allen had copied this concept from Truffaut for his Annie Hall.External linksCriterion Collection essay by Noah Baumbach Category:1970 films Category:French films Category:French-language films Category:Comedy-drama films Category:1970s romantic comedy films Category:Films directed by François Truffautbs:Domicile conjugal bg:Съвместно съжителство (филм) cs:Rodinný krb de:Tisch und Bett el:Παράνομο κρεβάτι es:Domicilio conyugal fr:Domicile conjugal hr:Zajednički stol i postelja io:Domicile conjugal it:Non drammatizziamo... è solo questione di corna lb:Domicile conjugal lt:Šeimos židinys hu:Családi fészek (film) nl:Domicile conjugal ja:家庭 (映画) no:Elsker – elsker ikke pl:Małżeństwo (film) pt:Domicile conjugal ro:Domiciliul conjugal ru:Семейный очаг (фильм) sk:Rodinný krb sv:Älskar - älskar inte zh:婚姻生活