In classical architecture, a metope (μετώπη) is a rectangular architectural element that fills the space between two triglyphs in a Doric frieze, which is a decorative band of alternating triglyphs and metopes above the architrave of a building of the Doric order. Metopes often had painted or sculptural decoration; the most famous example is the 92 metopes of the frieze of the Parthenon marbles depicting the battle between the Centaurs and the Lapiths. The painting on most metopes has been lost, but sufficient traces remain to allow a close idea of their original appearance.In terms of structure, metopes may be carved from a single block with a Triglyph (or triglyphs), or they may be cut separately and slide into slots in the triglyph blocks as at the Temple of Aphaea. Although they tend to be close to square in shape, some metopes are noticeably larger in height or in width. They may also vary in width within a single structure to allow for corner contraction, an adjustment of the column spacing and arrangement of the Doric frieze in a temple to make the design appear more harmonious.Images of metopes Image:Metope-1.jpg|A metope (L) and triglyph ® cut from one block from Stratos. Image:Metope-2.jpg|Triglyph blocks with slots for the insertion of metopes in the Marmaria at Delphi. Image:Brauron-10.jpg|Metopes made from marble slotted into the frieze of the Stoa at Brauron. Image:Metope-3.jpg|Metopes with sculptural decoration in the Doric frieze of the Treasury of the Athenians at Delphi. Image:Aphaia-temple-3.jpg|Frieze fo the Temple of Aphaea with triglyphs slotted for metopes. Image:Hephaisteion-1.jpg|The entablature of the Hephaisteion (temple of Hephaistos) in Athens, showing Doric frieze with sculpted metopes. See alsoClassical architectureClassical orderDoric orderReferencesRobertson, D. S. (1929) Handbook of Greek and Roman Architecture. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.Category:Ancient Greek architecture Category:Ancient Greek sculptureCategory:Ancient Roman architecture Category:Ancient Roman sculpture Category:Columns and entablaturebs:Metopa cs:Metopa de:Metope es:Metopa eo:Metopo eu:Metopa fr:Métope gl:Métopa hr:Metopa it:Metopa mk:Метопа nl:Metope no:Metope nn:Metope pl:Metopa pt:Métopa ro:Metope ru:Метопа sr:Метопа sh:Metopa fi:Metooppi sv:Metop zh:排档间饰