 Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk () is a city on Sakhalin Island, Russia, administrative center of Sakhalin Oblast (which includes the whole island and the Kurils). The city was formerly called Vladimirovka between 1882-1905, then Toyohara () between 1905-1946.The city is on the Susuya River (also called the Black River). Population: 175,085 (2002 Census); 187,000 (2000 est.). Location: . It is served by Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk Airport.HistoryThe city began as a small Russian settlement called Vladimirovka, founded by convicts in 1882. The Treaty of Portsmouth in 1905, which brought an end to the Russo-Japanese War of 1904–1905, awarded the southern half of Sakhalin Island to Japan. Vladimirovka was renamed to Toyohara (meaning "Valley of the fecundity"), and was the prefect capital of Japanese Karafuto.After the end of World War II, the Japanese portion of Sakhalin island was occupied by Soviet troops. Ownership of the city transferred back to Russia (then the RSFSR) and it was renamed Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk.stands outside the Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk Railway Station.]]Present dayToday things are looking up for Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk, ExxonMobil and Shell have been investing heavily in the area, although most of this has been on the northern half of Sakhalin. The demand for natural resources by the Japanese, Chinese, and South Koreans are giving the entire island an opportunity for continued prosperity. There has been significant criticism, including from PolPred Kamil Iskhakov, that Sakhalin is not caring for its citizens. Despite being awash with gas deposits and incoming investments from gas companies, the regional administration does not yet have plans for installation of gas service on the island. The oblast also continues to have the highest rate of juvenile crime in all of Russia, and more than 40% of its businesses are unprofitable.Vostokmedia.ru - PolPred Iskhakov visits Sakhalin Oblast  One of very few remaining Japanese buildings in Yuzhno Sakhalinsk is one of the most impressive ones as well; it is a museum now.Institutes of higher education in the city include Sakhalin State University.DemographicsMost residents are Russians, but there is also a sizable population of Koreans as well. Of 43,000 Sakhalin Koreans, half are estimated to live in Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk, making them roughly 12% of the town's population. Smaller numbers of indigeneous minorities, such as Ainu, Nivkhs, and Oroks can also be found.External linksHistory of Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk @ Sakhalin Official websiteThe Sakhalin Independent (Weekly English-language newspaper published in Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk)Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk Blizzard PhotosSteam and the Railways of SakhalinReferencesCategory:Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk Category:Cities and towns in Sakhalin Oblastar:يوجنو-ساخالينسك be:Горад Южна-Сахалінск bg:Южносахалинск cs:Južno-Sachalinsk de:Juschno-Sachalinsk et:Južno-Sahhalinsk es:Yuzhno-Sajalinsk eo:Juĵno-Saĥalinsk fr:Ioujno-Sakhalinsk ko:유즈노사할린스크 hr:Južno-Sahalinsk id:Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk os:Южно-Сахалинск it:Južno-Sachalinsk he:יוז'נו-סחלינסק lt:Južno Sachalinskas nl:Joezjno-Sachalinsk ja:ユジノサハリンスク no:Juzjno-Sakhalinsk pl:Jużnosachalińsk ro:Iujno-Sahalinsk ru:Южно-Сахалинск sr:Јужно-Сахалинск fi:Južno-Sahalinsk sv:Juzjno-Sachalinsk uk:Южно-Сахалінськ zh:南萨哈林斯克