  | location = Paris, France | deathdate =  | deathplace = Paris, France | nationality = French | field = Painting, Sculpture, Drawing | training = | movement = Impressionism | works = The Belleli Family (1858-1867)Woman with Chrysanthemums (1865)Chanteuse de Café (c.1878)At the Milliner's (1882) | patrons = | awards = | influenced = Walter Sickert Edgar Degas (19 July 1834 – 27 September 1917), born Hilaire-Germain-Edgar Degas (), was a French artist famous for his work in painting, sculpture, printmaking and drawing. He is regarded as one of the founders of Impressionism although he rejected the term, and preferred to be called a realist.Gordon and Forge, 1988, p. 31 A superb draughtsman, he is especially identified with the subject of the dance, and over half his works depict dancers. These display his mastery in the depiction of movement, as do his racecourse subjects and female nudes. His portraits are considered to be among the finest in the history of art.Early in his career, his ambition was to be a history painter, a calling for which he was well prepared by his rigorous academic training and close study of classic art. In his early thirties he changed course, and by bringing the traditional methods of a history painter to bear on contemporary subject matter, he became a classical painter of modern life.Turner, p. 139BiographyEarly lifeDegas was born in Paris, France, the eldest of five children of Célestine Musson De Gas and Augustin De Gas, a banker. The family was moderately wealthy. At age eleven, Degas (as a young man he abandoned the more pretentious spelling of the family name)The family's ancestral name was Degas. Jean Sutherland Boggs explains that De Gas was the spelling, "with some pretentions, used by the artist's father when he moved to Paris to establish a French branch of his father's Neopolitan bank." While Edgar Degas's brother René adopted the still more aristocratic de Gas, the artist had reverted to the original spelling, Degas, by age thirty. Baumann, et al., 1994, p. 98. began his schooling with enrollment in the Lycée Louis-le-Grand, graduating in 1853 with a baccalauréat in literature.Degas began to paint seriously early in his life. By eighteen he had turned a room in his home into an artist's studio, and had begun making copies in the Louvre, but his father expected him to go to law school. Degas duly registered at the Faculty of Law of the University of Paris in November 1853, but made little effort at his studies there. In 1855, Degas met Jean Auguste Dominique Ingres, whom he revered, and was advised by him to "draw lines, young man, many lines." In April of that same year, Degas received admission to the Ecole des Beaux-Arts, where he studied drawing with Louis Lamothe, under whose guidance he flourished, following the style of Ingres.Canaday, 1969, p. 930-931 In July 1856, Degas traveled to Italy, where he would remain for the next three years. There he drew and painted copies after Michelangelo, Raphael, Titian, and other artists of the Renaissance, often selecting from an altarpiece an individual head which he treated as a portrait.Baumann, et al., 1994, p. 154 It was during this period that Degas studied and became accomplished in the techniques of high, academic, and classical art.Roskill, 1983, p. 33Artistic careerAfter returning from Italy in 1859, Degas continued his education by copying paintings at the Louvre; he was to remain an enthusiastic copyist well into middle age.Baumann, et al., 1994, p. 151 In the early 1860s, while visiting his childhood friend Paul Valpinçon in Normandy, he made his first studies of horses. He exhibited at the Salon for the first time in 1865, when the jury accepted his painting Scene of War in the Middle Ages, which attracted little attention.Thomson, 1988, p. 48 Although he exhibited annually in the Salon during the next five years, he submitted no more history paintings, and his Steeplechase—The Fallen Jockey (Salon of 1866) signaled his growing commitment to contemporary subject matter. The change in his art was influenced primarily by the example of Édouard Manet, whom Degas had met in 1864 while copying in the Louvre.Gordon and Forge, 1988, p. 23At the outbreak of the Franco-Prussian War in 1870, Degas enlisted in the National Guard, where his defense of Paris left him little time for painting. During rifle training his eyesight was found to be defective, and for the rest of his life his eye problems were a constant worry to him.Guillaud and Guillaud, 1985, p.29 , 1873]] After the war, in 1872, Degas began an extended stay in New Orleans, Louisiana, where his brother René and a number of other relatives lived. Staying in a house on Esplanade Avenue, Degas produced a number of works, many depicting family members. One of Degas' New Orleans works, depicting a scene at The Cotton Exchange at New Orleans, garnered favorable attention back in France, and was his only work purchased by a museum (that of Pau) during his lifetime.Degas returned to Paris in 1873. The following year his father died, and in the subsequent settling of the estate it was discovered that Degas' brother René had amassed enormous business debts. To preserve the family name, Degas was forced to sell his house and a collection of art he had inherited. He now found himself suddenly dependent on sales of his artwork for income.Guillaud and Guillaud, 1985, p.33 By now thoroughly disenchanted with the Salon, Degas joined forces with a group of young artists who were intent upon organizing an independent exhibiting society. The first of their exhibitions, which were quickly dubbed Impressionist Exhibitions, was in 1874. The Impressionists subsequently held seven additional shows, the last in 1886. Degas took a leading role in organizing the exhibitions, and showed his work in all but one of them, despite his persistent conflicts with others in the group. He had little in common with Monet and the other landscape painters, whom he mocked for painting outdoors. Conservative in his social attitudes, he abhorred the scandal created by the exhibitions, as well as the publicity and advertising that his colleagues sought. He bitterly rejected the label Impressionist that the press had created and popularized, and his insistence on including such comparatively traditional artists as Jean-Louis Forain and Jean-François Raffaëlli in their exhibitions created rancor within the group, contributing to their eventual disbanding in 1886.Armstrong, p. 25As his financial situation improved through sales of his own work, he was able to indulge his passion for collecting works by artists he admired—old masters such as El Greco and such contemporaries as Manet, Pissarro, Cézanne, Gauguin, and Van Gogh. Three artists he idolized, Ingres, Delacroix, and Daumier, were especially well represented in his collection."In the final inventory of his collection, there were twenty paintings and eighty-eight drawings by Ingres, thirteen paintings and almost two hundred drawings by Delacroix. There were hundreds of lithographs by Daumier. His contemporaries were well represented—with the exception of Monet, by whom he had nothing." Gordon and Forge, 1988, p. 37In the late 1880s, Degas also developed a passion for photography.Gordon and Forge, 1988, p. 26 He photographed many of his friends, often by lamplight, as in his double portrait of Renoir and Mallarmê. Other photographs, depicting dancers and nudes, were used for reference in some of Degas' drawings and paintings.Gordon and Forge, 1988, p. 34As the years passed, Degas became isolated, due in part to his belief that a painter could have no personal life.Canaday, 1969, p. 929 The Dreyfus Affair controversy brought his antisemitic leanings to the fore and he broke with all his Jewish friends.Guillaud and Guillaud, 1985, p. 56 In later life, Degas regretted the loss of those friends.While he is known to have been working in pastel as late as the end of 1907, and is believed to have continued making sculpture as late as 1910, he apparently ceased working in 1912, when the impending demolition of his longtime residence on the rue Victor Massé forced a wrenching move to quarters on the boulevard de Clichy.Thomson, 1988, p. 211 He never married and spent the last years of his life, nearly blind, restlessly wandering the streets of ParisMannering, 1994, p. 7 before dying in 1917. Degas' last years were sad and lonely, especially as he outlived many of his closest friends. Roskill, 1983, p. 33Artistic style'' (La Classe de Danse),1873–1876, oil on canvas, by Edgar Degas]] Degas is often identified as an Impressionist, an understandable but insufficient description. Impressionism originated in the 1860s and 1870s and grew, in part, from the realism of such painters as Courbet and Corot. The Impressionists painted the realities of the world around them using bright, "dazzling" colors, concentrating primarily on the effects of light, and hoping to infuse their scenes with immediacy.Technically, Degas differs from the Impressionists in that, as art historian Frederick Hartt says, he "never adopted the Impressionist color fleck",Hartt, 1976, p. 365 and he continually belittled their practice of painting en plein air.Gordon and Forge, 1988, p. 11 "He was often as anti-impressionist as the critics who reviewed the shows", according to art historian Carol Armstrong; as Degas himself explained, "no art was ever less spontaneous than mine. What I do is the result of reflection and of the study of the great masters; of inspiration, spontaneity, temperament, I know nothing."Armstrong, p. 22 Nonetheless, he is described more accurately as an Impressionist than as a member of any other movement. His scenes of Parisian life, his off-center compositions, his experiments with color and form, and his friendship with several key Impressionist artists, most notably Mary Cassatt and Edouard Manet, all relate him intimately to the Impressionist movement.Roskill, 1983, p.33Degas has his own distinct style, one reflecting his deep respect for the old masters and his great admiration for Jean Auguste Dominique Ingres and Eugène Delacroix. He was also a collector of Japanese prints, whose compositional principles influenced his work, as did the vigorous realism of popular illustrators such as Daumier and Gavarni. Although famous for horses and dancers, Degas began with conventional historical paintings such as The Young Spartans, although his treatment of such subjects became progressively less idealized. During his early career, Degas also painted portraits of individuals and groups; an example of the latter is The Bellelli Family of (c.1858–60), a brilliantly composed and psychologically poignant portrayal of his aunt, her husband, and their children. In this painting, as in The Young Spartans and many later works, Degas was drawn to the tensions present between men and women. In his early paintings, Degas already evidenced the mature style that he would later develop more fully by cropping subjects awkwardly and by choosing unusual viewpoints.'', 1876, oil on canvas, by Edgar Degas]] By the late 1860s, Degas had shifted from his initial forays into history painting to an original observation of contemporary life. Racecourse scenes provided an opportunity to depict horses and their riders in a modern context. He began to paint women at work, milliners and laundresses. Mlle. Fiocre in the Ballet La Source, exhibited in the Salon of 1868, was his first major work to introduce a subject with which he would become especially identified, dancers.Dumas, 1988, p. 9.In many subsequent paintings dancers were shown backstage or in rehearsal, emphasizing their status as professionals doing a job. Degas began to paint café life as well. He urged other artists to paint "real life" instead of traditional mythological or historical paintings, and the few literary scenes he painted were modern and of highly ambiguous content. For example, Interior (which has also been called The Rape) has presented a conundrum to art historians in search of a literary source; internal evidence suggests that it may be based on a scene from Thérèse Raquin.Reff, 1976, pp. 200-204As his subject matter changed, so, too, did Degas' technique. The dark palette that bore the influence of Dutch painting gave way to the use of vivid colors and bold brushstrokes. Paintings such as Place de la Concorde read as "snapshots," freezing moments of time to portray them accurately, imparting a sense of movement. The changes to his palette, brushwork, and sense of composition all evidence the influence that both the Impressionist movement and modern photography, with its spontaneous images and off-kilter angles, had on his work. Roskill, 1983, p.33'', 1875, oil on canvas, by Edgar Degas, Hermitage Museum, St. Petersburg]]Blurring the distinction between portraiture and genre pieces, he painted his bassoonist friend, Désiré Dihau, in The Orchestra of the Opera (1868-69) as one of fourteen musicians in an orchestra pit, viewed as though by a member of the audience. Above the musicians can be seen only the legs and tutus of the dancers onstage, their figures cropped by the edge of the painting. Art historian Charles Stuckey has pointed out that the viewpoint is that of a distracted spectator at a ballet, and that "it is Degas' fascination with the depiction of movement, including the movement of a spectator's eyes as during a random glance, that is properly speaking 'Impressionist'."Guillaud and Guillaud, 1985, p.28Degas' mature style is distinguished by conspicuously unfinished passages, even in otherwise tightly rendered paintings. He frequently blamed his eye troubles for his inability to finish, an explanation that met with some skepticism from colleagues and collectors who reasoned, as Stuckey explains, that "his pictures could hardly have been executed by anyone with inadequate vision."Guillaud and Guillaud, 1985, p. 29 The artist provided another clue when he described his predilection "to begin a hundred things and not finish one of them,"Guillaud and Guillaud, 1985, p.50 and was in any case notoriously reluctant to consider a painting complete.His interest in portraiture led him to study carefully the ways in which a person's social stature or form of employment may be revealed by their physiognomy, posture, dress, and other attributes. In his 1879 Portraits, At the Stock Exchange, he portrayed a group of Jewish businessmen with a hint of antisemitism; while in his paintings of dancers and laundresses, he reveals their occupations not only by their dress and activities but also by their body type. His ballerinas exhibit an athletic physicality, while his laundresses are heavy and solid.Muehlig, 1979, p. 6, Paris.]] By the later 1870s Degas had mastered not only the traditional medium of oil on canvas, but pastel as well. The dry medium, which he applied in complex layers and textures, enabled him more easily to reconcile his facility for line with a growing interest in expressive color.In the mid-1870s he also returned to the medium of etching, which he had neglected for ten years, and began experimenting with less traditional printmaking media—lithographs and experimental monotypes. He was especially fascinated by the effects produced by monotype, and frequently reworked the printed images with pastel.Thomson, 1988, p. 75, St. Petersburg]] These changes in media engendered the paintings that Degas would produce in later life. Degas began to draw and paint women drying themselves with towels, combing their hair, and bathing (see: After the Bath). The strokes that model the form are scribbled more freely than before; backgrounds are simplified.The meticulous naturalism of his youth gave way to an increasing abstraction of form. Except for his characteristically brilliant draftsmanship and obsession with the figure, the pictures created in this late period of his life bear little superficial resemblance to his early paintings. Ironically, it is these paintings, created late in his life, and after the heyday of the Impressionist movement, that most obviously use the coloristic techniques of Impressionism. Mannering, 1994, pp. 70-77For all the stylistic evolution, certain features of Degas's work remained the same throughout his life. He always painted indoors, preferring to work in his studio, either from memory or using models. Benedek "Style." The figure remained his primary subject; his few landscapes were produced from memory or imagination. It was not unusual for him to repeat a subject many times, varying the composition or treatment. He was a deliberative artist whose works, as Andrew Forge has written, "were prepared, calculated, practiced, developed in stages. They were made up of parts. The adjustment of each part to the whole, their linear arrangement, was the occasion for infinite reflection and experiment."Gordon and Forge, 1988, p. 9Reputation'', sculpture by Edgar Degas]] During his life, public reception of Degas' work ranged from admiration to contempt. As a promising artist in the conventional mode, and in the several years following 1860, Degas had a number of paintings accepted in the Salon. These works received praise from Pierre Puvis de Chavannes and the critic, Castagnary.Bowness, 1965, pp. 41-42Degas soon joined forces with the Impressionists, however, and rejected the rigid rules, judgements, and elitism of the Salon—just as the Salon and general public initially rejected the experimentalism of the Impressionists.Degas's work was controversial, but was generally admired for its draftsmanship. The suite of nudes Degas exhibited in the eighth Impressionist Exhibition in 1886 produced "the most concentrated body of critical writing on the artist during his lifetime. ... The overall reaction was positive and laudatory."Thomson, 1988, p. 135 His La Petite Danseuse de Quatorze Ans, or Little Dancer of Fourteen Years, was probably his most controversial piece, with some critics decrying what they thought its "appalling ugliness" while others saw in it a "blossoming." Muehlig, 1979, p.7Recognized as an important artist by the end of his life, Degas is now considered "one of the founders of impressionism".Mannering, 1994, p. 6-7 Though his work crossed many stylistic boundaries, his involvement with the other major figures of Impressionism and their exhibitions, his dynamic paintings and sketches of everyday life and activities, and his bold color experiments, served to finally tie him to the Impressionist movement as one of its greatest early artists.His paintings, pastels, drawings, and sculpture—most of the latter were not intended for exhibition, and were discovered only after his death—are on prominent display in many museums.Although Degas had no formal pupils, he greatly influenced several important painters, most notably Jean-Louis Forain, Mary Cassatt, and Walter Sickert;J. Paul Getty Trust his greatest admirer may have been Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec.Guillaud and Guillaud, 1985, p. 48Gallery Image:Edgar Germain Hilaire Degas 049.jpg|''Portrait of the Bellelli Family,'' 1858-1867, Musée d'Orsay, Paris, France Image:Edgar Germain Hilaire Degas 013.jpg|''The Amateur,'' 1866, The Metropolitan Museum of Art New York City Image:Edgar Germain Hilaire Degas 059.jpg|''Horseracing in Longchamps,'' 1873-1875, Museum of Fine Arts, Boston Image:Edgar Germain Hilaire Degas 051.jpg|''Portrait of Miss Cassatt, Seated, Holding Cards,'' 1876-1878 Image:Edgar Germain Hilaire Degas 037.jpg|''At the'' Café-Concert'': The Song of the Dog,'' 1875-1877 Image:Edgar Germain Hilaire Degas 019.jpg|''The Singer with the Glove,'' 1878, The Fogg, Cambridge, Massachusetts Image:Edgar Germain Hilaire Degas 044.jpg|''Miss Lala at the Circus Fernando,'' 1879, The National Gallery, London Image:Edgar Germain Hilaire Degas 011.jpg|''The Millinery Shop'', 1885, The Art Institute of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois Image:Edgar Germain Hilaire Degas 004.jpg|''Ballet Rehearsal,'' 1873, The Fogg, Cambridge, Massachusetts Image:Edgar Germain Hilaire Degas 069.jpg|''Dancer with a Bouquet of Flowers (Star of the Ballet)'', 1878 Image:Edgar Germain Hilaire Degas 009.jpg|''Stage Rehearsal,'' 1878-1879, The Metropolitan Museum of Art New York City Image:Edgar Germain Hilaire Degas 072.jpg|''Dancers at The Bar,'' 1888, The Phillips Collection, Washington, DC Image:Edgar Germain Hilaire Degas 032.jpg|''Woman in the Bath,'' 1886, Hill-Stead Museum, Farmington, Connecticut Image:Edgar Germain Hilaire Degas 031.jpg|''The Tub,'' 1886, Musée d'Orsay, Paris, France Image:Edgar Germain Hilaire Degas 030.jpg|''After the Bath,'' 1896-1898 Image:Edgar Germain Hilaire Degas 045.jpg|''After the Bath, Woman Drying her Nape'' 1898, Musée d'Orsay, Paris, FranceSee alsoHistory of paintingWestern paintingReferencesNotesSourcesArmstrong, Carol (1991). Odd Man Out: Readings of the Work and Reputation of Edgar Degas. Chicago and London: University of Chicago Press. ISBN 0226026957Baumann, Felix; Karabelnik, Marianne, et al. (1994). Degas Portraits. London: Merrell Holberton. ISBN 1-85894-014-1Benedek, Nelly S. &quot;Chronology of the Artist's Life.&quot; Degas. 2004. 21 May 2004.Benedek, Nelly S. &quot;Degas's Artistic Style.&quot; Degas. 2004. 21 March 2004.Bowness, Alan. ed. (1965) "Edgar Degas." The Book of Art Volume 7. New York: Grolier Incorporated :41.Brettell, Richard R.; McCullagh, Suzanne Folds (1984). Degas in The Art Institute of Chicago. New York: The Art Institute of Chicago and Harry N. Abrams, Inc. ISBN 0-86559-058-3Canaday, John (1969). The Lives of the Painters Volume 3. New York: W.W. Norton and Company Inc.Dorra, Henri. Art in Perspective New York: Harcourt Brace Jocanovich, Inc.:208Dumas, Ann (1988). Degas's ''Mlle. Fiocre in Context''. Brooklyn: The Brooklyn Museum. ISBN 0-87273-116-2"Edgar Degas, 1834-1917." The Book of Art Volume III (1976). New York: Grolier Incorporated:4.Gordon, Robert; Forge, Andrew (1988). Degas. New York: Harry N. Abrams. ISBN 0-8109-1142-6Guillaud, Jaqueline; Guillaud, Maurice (editors) (1985). Degas: Form and Space. New York: Rizzoli. ISBN 0-8478-5407-8Hartt, Frederick (1976). "Degas" Art Volume 2. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall Inc.: 365."Impressionism." Praeger Encyclopedia of Art Volume 3 (1967). New York: Praeger Publishers: 952.J. Paul Getty Trust &quot;Walter Richard Sickert.&quot; 2003. 11 May 2004.Mannering, Douglas (1994). The Life and Works of Degas. Great Britain: Parragon Book Service Limited.Muehlig, Linda D. (1979). Degas and the Dance, 5-27 April May 1979. Northampton, Mass.: Smith College Museum of Art.Peugeot, Catherine, Sellier, Marie (2001). A Trip to the Orsay Museum. Paris: ADAGP: 39.Reff, Theodore (1976). Degas the artist's mind. York: Metropolitan Museum of Art. ISBN 0870991469Roskill, Mark W. (1983). "Edgar Degas." Collier's Encyclopedia.Thomson, Richard (1988). Degas: The Nudes. London: Thames and Hudson Ltd.Tinterow, Gary (1988). Degas. New York: The Metropolitan Museum of Art and National Gallery of Canada.Turner, J. (2000). From Monet to Cézanne: late 19th-century French artists. Grove Art. New York: St Martin's Press. ISBN 0-312-22971-2External links Edgar Degas at Gallery of ArtPaintings by Edgar DegasEdgar Degas - Life and ArtDegas at the WebMuseumPBS on DegasDegas, Sickert &amp; Toulouse Lautrec at TateEdgar Degas at Hill-Stead Museum, Farmington, ConnecticutEdgar Degas biography, books &amp; exhibition review by cosmopolis.chEdgar Degas Gallery at MuseumSyndicateDegas at Musée d'Orsay, Paris, FranceEdgar Degas paintings &amp; interactive timeline Category:French painters Category:French sculptors Category:French printmakers Category:Impressionist painters Category:Impressionist sculptors Category:Lycée Louis-le-Grand alumni Category:1834 births Category:1917 deaths Category:French military personnel of the Franco-Prussian Warbn:এদ্‌গার দ্যগা bs:Edgar Degas br:Edgar Degas bg:Едгар Дега ca:Edgar Degas cs:Edgar Degas da:Edgar Degas de:Edgar Degas et:Edgar Degas el:Εντγκάρ Ντεγκά es:Edgar Degas eo:Edgar Degas fr:Edgar Degas fy:Edgar Degas gl:Edgar Degas ko:에드가르 드가 hi:एद्गर देगास hr:Edgar Degas io:Edgar Degas id:Edgar Degas it:Edgar Degas he:אדגר דגה ka:ედგარ დეგა la:Edgarus Degas lt:Edgar Degas hu:Edgar Degas mk:Едгар Дега ml:എഡ്ഗാര്‍ ഡെഗാ mr:एदगा दगा nl:Edgar Degas ja:エドガー・ドガ no:Edgar Degas oc:Edgar Degas pl:Edgar Degas pt:Edgar Degas ro:Edgar Degas ru:Дега, Эдгар scn:Edgar Degas sk:Edgar Degas sr:Edgar Dega sh:Edgar Degas fi:Edgar Degas sv:Edgar Degas th:เอ็ดการ์ เดอกาส์ vi:Edgar Degas tr:Edgar Degas uk:Деґа Едґар zh:埃德加·德加