  | place of birth=Missoula, Montana | date of death= | place of death=Carmel, California | spouse= | profession=Social worker, activist | religion=Unknown | party=Republican |Jeannette Rankin (June 11, 1880 &ndash; May 18, 1973) was the first woman to be elected to the United States House of Representatives and the first female member of the Congress sometimes referred to as the Lady of the House. A lifelong pacifist, she voted against the entry of the United States into both World War I and World War II, the only member of Congress to vote against the latter. To date, she is the only woman to be elected to Congress from Montana.Early life and suffrage movementBorn in Missoula, Montana, Rankin was the first of six children of Canadian immigrants John Rankin, a rancher, and Olive Rankin, a schoolteacher. She attended the University of Montana and graduated in 1902.In 1908, she migrated to New York City, where she started a career as a social worker. She later moved to Seattle, Washington, and then enrolled at the University of Washington, where she joined the incipient suffrage cause. She was instrumental in the cause's efforts to enable women to vote in Montana, and women gained the vote in Montana in 1914.Congressional careerOn November 7, 1916 she was elected to the House of Representatives as a Republican from Montana, becoming the first female member of Congress. The Nineteenth Amendment (which gave women the right to vote everywhere in the United States) was not ratified until 1920; therefore, during Rankin's first term in Congress (1917-1919), many women throughout the country did not have the right to vote, though they did in her home state of Montana.On April 6, 1917, only 4 days into her term,Women in the United States Congress-1917-2005 the House voted on the resolution to enter World War I. Rankin cast one of 50Senate article on Rankin votes against the resolution, earning her immediate vilification from the press. Suffrage groups cancelled her speaking engagements. Despite her vote against entering the war, she devoted herself to selling Liberty Bonds and voted for the military draft. In 1918, she ran an unsuccessful campaign for the Republican nomination to represent Montana in the United States Senate. She then ran an independent candidacy, which also failed. Her term as Representative ended early in 1919. For the next two decades, she worked as a lobbyist in Washington, D.C. for various causes.In 1918, and again in 1919, she introduced legislation to provide state and federal funds for health clinics, midwife education, and visiting nurse programs in an effort to reduce the nation's infant mortality. While serving as a field secretary for the National Consumers' League, she campaigned for legislation to promote maternal and child health care. As a lobbyist, Rankin argued for passage of the Sheppard-Towner Act, an infant and maternal health bill which was the first federal social welfare program created explicitly for women and children. As an effect of the bill, maternal and infant mortality rates improved significantly . The legislation, however, was not enacted until 1921 and was repealed just eight years later.She was founding Vice-President of the American Civil Liberties Union and a founding member of the Women's International League for Peace and Freedom.In 1940, Rankin was again elected to Congress, this time on an anti-war platform. Following the attack on Pearl Harbor, she once again voted against entering a World War, the only member of Congress to do so, saying "As a woman, I can't go to war and I refuse to send anyone else. It is not necessary. I vote 'NO'". However she did not vote against declaring war on Germany and Italy following their declaration of war on the U.S. Instead, she voted merely "Present."By the end of her term, Rankin's antiwar stance had become so unpopular that she did not seek re-election. During the remainder of her life, she traveled to India seven times and was a devotee of Gandhian principles of non-violence and self-determination.Post-congressional activitiesAn admirer of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., in 1968, Rankin led more than 5,000 women who called themselves "The Jeannette Rankin Brigade" to the United States Capitol to demonstrate their opposition to U.S. involvement in the Vietnam War. Coretta Scott King and Judy Collins were among the other well-known women who attended.Death and legacyRankin died in Carmel, California at the age of 92 from natural causes. Rankin bequeathed her property in Watkinsville, Georgia to help "mature, unemployed women workers." This was the seed money for the Jeannette Rankin Foundation, a 501(c)(3) organization that gives educational scholarships annually to low income women all across the United States. The organization has built capacity since its single $500 scholarship in 1978 to the eighty $2000 scholarships it is awarding in 2007. In 1985, a statue of her was placed in the United States Capitol's Statuary Hall.See alsoJane AddamsWomen in the United States House of RepresentativesMohandas Karamchand GandhiWILPFA Single Woman (play)A Single Woman (film)NotesExternal linksWomen in Congress BiographySuffragists Oral History Project at Berkeley - 1971-72 interviews with RankinJeannette Rankin FoundationJeannette Rankin Peace Center[http://peaceisawomansjob.com Peace is a Woman's Job, play and film about Rankin by actor/playwright, Allyson Adams][http://www.asinglewomanmovie.com A Single Woman, a film about Rankin by] actor/playwright, Jeanmarie Simpson     Category:1880 births Category:1973 deaths Category:People from Missoula, Montana Category:Members of the United States House of Representatives from Montana Category:American pacifists Category:American suffragists Category:American civil rights activists Category:University of Washington alumni Category:University of Montana alumni Category:Female members of the United States House of Representativesde:Jeannette Rankin es:Jeannette Rankin eo:Jeannette Rankin fr:Jeannette Rankin it:Jeannette Rankin nl:Jeannette Rankin ja:ジャネット・ランキン pl:Jeannette Rankin sl:Jeannette Rankin fi:Jeannette Rankin tr:Jeannette Rankin