           The Resistance city, in Castilian: Resistencia, is a city in northern Argentina, the capital of the Chaco Province, located on a tributary of the Paraná River. As of the , the population of the city proper is 274,490 inhabitants. The metropolitan area totals 359,590, the 11th largest in Argentina.Resistencia is a commercial and transportation center for the sparsely inhabited frontier region to the northwest. Major manufactures include processed food, textiles, refined metal, and wood and leather products. The river port of Barranqueras is nearby.Originally called San Fernando del Río Negro, the site was settled in the 17th century as a Jesuit mission and then abandoned in the late 18th century. Following Argentina's war with Paraguay (1864&ndash;1870), the site was reestablished as an important military outpost. Its present name was adopted in 1876 from the Resistance of the native to be colonized during the wars against the indigenous people.The City of the SculpturesAs this craftmanship made by Erminio Blotta, is only one of the more than three hundreds of crafts and sculptures scattered throughout the city.Climate.]] The region is characteristically subtropical with out a dry season. An average of  of rain fall every year, often causing temporary flooding. Temperatures in the summer tend to be in the high 90s °F and are intensified by high humidity. Winters are temperate and temperatures rarely get below freezing. In recorded history, snow has never fallen in the city.FloodingSeasonal flooding is characteristic of Resistencia and follow every hard rain. There are various reasons for the flooding:The city situated in a geographical depression, so it is often impossible for the rain to naturally run off into the Negro or Paraná Rivers. Water from heavy rains must be pumped out.The soil has a high concentration of clay which makes filtration difficult.Systems of levies have been erected to reclaim land from surrounding lagoons in order to accommodate a growing population.The biggest threat to the city, however, is not the seasonal flooding caused by heavy rains but the periodic rising of the Paraná River that occurs about every 20 years. The most recent occurrences where in 1962, 1982 and 1997. The river rising in 1982 was especially devastating because one of the levees the protect the city burst flooding the city for some time.It's generally not advisable to drink tap water outside downtown and more upscale areas; most locals and tourists either drink bottled water, carbonated water or soft drinks.Pagina/12Culture &amp; TourismThe more important social event is by far the biennial woodcarving contest, celebrated every two years through one entire week in July. Recent editions of the contest also included works in marble and ice, the last one very rare because of the city's subtropical weather, where temperatures below 5&nbsp;°C are unusual. At the same festival, folks and rocks bands and fireworks usually turns the night over.  The sculptures usually remain in the city, placed in sidewalks and parks all over the city. This has led to city being know as "The city of the sculptures" and an "Open Air Museum" (over 400 sculptures have already been placed). The city has a tax promotion which frees anyone who places a sculpture in a visible place in front of his house from taxes for one year. From Resistencia City, one can go on amusing tours or excursions - fishing in Paraná River, visiting San Fernando de Río Negro Abipone Indians Settlement, Villa Paranacito Resort and the various museums.A few kilometers away, one can visit Corrientes City through the Barranqueras port area and General Belgrano Bridge. In the surroundings, regional products and pottery, bows, arrows, baskets, weaves and leather crafts are available.  Other interesting sites to visit include Guacara Ruins, Makallé old Fortress, San Buenaventura del Monte Alto Indians Settlement, Puerto Bermejo and Las Palmas Town.MusicTraditional Argentine folkloric music such as Chacarera and Chamamé along other genres is widely popular, with musicians such as Aldo Verón, Zitto Segovia, Las Cuerdas Breñenses and Trimaral. musicos&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; There is also electronic bands as Tonolec which mix autochthonous music styles with electronic and a good number of Jazz bands as well. The song Going to Resistencia, making reference to the city itself, is an example of their high compounded multiculturalism trait.Night LifeThe night life in Resistencia is some of the best in the region. There is a plethora of clubs, restaurants, pubs and discotheques. Buenos Aires-based Amerian Hotels Corp. opened a four-star hotel and casino, downtown, in 2002.References Municipality of Resistencia - Official website.http://www.welcomeargentina.com/resistencia/index_i.html - General Information Category:Cities, towns and villages in Chaco Province Category:Capitals of Argentine provinces Category:Paraná Riverbg:Ресистенсия de:Resistencia es:Resistencia (Chaco) eu:Resistencia fr:Resistencia id:Resistencia it:Resistencia lt:Resistensija nl:Resistencia no:Resistencia pl:Resistencia sk:Resistencia uk:Ресістенсія (Чако) vo:Resistencia bat-smg:Resistensėjė zh:雷西斯滕西亚