 | Instrument = Vocals | Genre = Latin hip hop, Gangsta rap | Occupation = rapper | Years_active = 1991 - present | Label = Terror Squad Entertainment, Imperial | Associated_acts = Terror Squad, DJ Khaled, D.I.T.C., Lil Wayne, Scott Storch, Rick Ross, Plies, Akon, Junior Reid, KRS-One, Cool &amp; Dre, The Game, Ja Rule, Jadakiss, Ashanti, Swizz Beatz & Big Pun. | URL = fat-joe.com | Current_members = | Past_members = | Notable_instruments =   Joseph Cartagena, better known by his stage name Fat Joe, is an American rapper of Puerto Rican and Cuban descent and is signed to Imperial Records. Fat Joe also runs his own label Terror Squad Entertainment, where he is the CEO and main artist, also being a performer in its musical group Terror Squad among several other New York City-based rappers.Fat Joe's first album was Represent, released in 1993, followed by Jealous One's Envy in 1995. From 1998 to 2006, he was signed to Atlantic Records, releasing four albums under the label, Don Cartagena in 1998, Jealous Ones Still Envy (J.O.S.E.) in 2001, Loyalty in 2002, and All or Nothing in 2005. Around the release of All or Nothing, Fat Joe was involved in a highly publicized feud with another New York City-based rapper 50 Cent, who attacked Fat Joe in his song "Piggy Bank". His most popular song in which he performed was "Lean Back" with Terror Squad, which was a number-one hit in the summer of 2004.Starting in 2006, when his album Me, Myself, &amp; I was released, Fat Joe was signed to Imperial Records&lt;/ref&gt;, which distributes through Terror Squad Entertainment. His second album released under the label was The Elephant in the Room, which was released on March 11, 2008.Music career1993-1997: Early yearsUnder stage name "Fat Joe da Gangsta", and part of b.o.o.l.e.i., Cartegena was signed to Relativity Records in the early 1990s, recording material and working with many artists who he would later sign to his own label. In 1993, his debut album Represent was released, featuring production from The Beatnuts, Diamond D, Lord Finesse, and others. Its lead single "Flow Joe" peaked at number one on the Billboard Hot Rap Singles chart; other minor singles from the album included "Watch the Sound" and "This Shit is Real".In 1995, Fat Joe released his second studio album, Jealous One's Envy, which peaked at #71 on The Billboard 200 and at #7 on Top R&B/Hip Hop Albums. The album featured a guest appearance from KRS-One and production from Diamond D. The lead single was "Success", which did not chart, but his second single, "Envy" peaked at #8 on the Hot Rap Tracks chart. The success of this album led Fat Joe to be featured on the remix of LL Cool J's single "I Shot Ya" along with Foxy Brown, Keith Murray and Prodigy of Mobb Deep.1998-2005: Signing to Atlantic Records, Terror SquadReleased in 1998, Don Cartagena was Joe's third album and his first for Atlantic Records. It peked on The Billboard 200 at #7 and #2 on Top R&B/Hip Hop albums, eventually being certified gold by the RIAA.Fat Joe RIAA certification listings The album featured two hit singles "Bet Ya Man Can't (Triz)", and "Don Cartagena". Guest appearances included Nas, Diddy, Big Pun, Raekwon, Jadakiss, and Bone Thugs-N-Harmony. Within the album, Fat Joe debuted his own group Terror Squad that consisted of the late Big Pun, as well as Cuban Link, Triple Seis, Prospect, Armageddon and later Remy Ma.Birchmeier, Jason. Terror Squad biography at AllmusicJoe himself acknowledged, in an interview with HipHopGame.com, that he has received criticism for releasing only one solo album by a former Terror Squad member, Remy Ma, as well as barely featuring original members Prospect and Armageddon on "True Story." Terror Squad singer Tony Sunshine has had possible album release dates pushed back over three years, and Joe had stated that artists Prospect and Armageddon have not released solo albums yet as the result of them being "really lazy".HipHopGame.com - Fat Joe Interview Former Terror Squad member Triple Seis also went on record when asked who had written Fat Joe's lyrics, stating that he and Pun were Joe's ghostwriters, and asserts that Joe continues to hire ghostwriters.Nobody's Smiling: Triple Seis – Third Times a CharmFat Joe released his fourth album Jealous Ones Still Envy (J.O.S.E.) in 2001, featuring production from the then-popular Irv Gotti. The album featured a star-studded line up from the likes of Ashanti, Ja Rule, N.O.R.E., Busta Rhymes, Petey Pablo, M.O.P., Ludacris, R. Kelly, Buju Banton, and artists from his Terror Squad label. The lead single "We Thuggin'" featuring R. Kelly was a big hit in late 2001, but would not reach the level of the Irv Gotti-produced "What's Luv?" which was a massive hit in early 2002 and featured Murder Inc. superstars Ja Rule and Ashanti. The album was Fat Joe's biggest hit as it was successful from its January release all the way into May, being certified platinum. However, Fat Joe's fifth album Loyalty, out in 2002 and featuring production from Irv Gotti, was not as successful.In 2003, Fat Joe was featured in the pop single "I Want You" by Mexican singer Thalía. The same year, he and Tony Sunshine performed the single "Crush Tonight" from Loyalty on the Comedy Central program Chappelle's Show, hosted by comedian Dave Chappelle.Comedy Central: Shows - Chappelle's Show - Episode Guide - Season 1 - 105&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Despite the setback, Fat Joe scored a number-one hit in 2004 with his group Terror Squad, collaborating with Remy Ma on the Scott Storch production "Lean Back" from the album True Story. The song was criticized twice by conservative columnist L. Brent Bozell III for its extensive use of obscene language.&lt;/ref&gt;&lt;ref name="toned down" However, Jason Birchmeier of Allmusic called the song "a perfect club-ready duet between Joe and Remy that boasts a trademark Scott Storch beat and a memorable singalong hook (and dance-along step)".Three years later, in 2005, Fat Joe released his sixth album All or Nothing, noted for featuring the popular diss track "My Fofo" aimed at fellow New York rapper 50 Cent, who had dissed Joe for recording with Ja Rule. All or Nothing spawned the singles "So Much More" and "Get It Poppin" featuring Nelly, also with guest appearances from Eminem, Mase, Remy Ma, Mashonda, and R. Kelly. Responding to "My FoFo", 50 Cent attacked Fat Joe in his 2005 song "Piggy Bank" from his album The Massacre. Fat Joe, subsequently, attacked 50's street credibility and called him a "coward" on a phone interview with Kay Slay of New York City hip-hop radio station WQHT. Fat Joe also released a track criticizing 50 Cent in his 2005 album All or Nothing titled "My FoFo" (referring to his .44). The conflict carried on at the 2005 MTV Video Music Awards, while Fat Joe introduced the reggaeton act featuring Daddy Yankee, Joe remarked, "I feel safe with all the police protection—courtesy of G-Unit."&lt;/ref&gt; Shortly after, when MTV switched to a commercial break, 50 Cent directed an obscenity at Joe, and 50 Cent jumped on stage as Fat Joe was leaving.2006-present: Me, Myself &amp; I, The Elephant In The Room, and moreMe, Myself &amp; I, released in 2006, is Fat Joe's seventh album. It was his first album released on his new deal with Virgin Records. It was his first album since Jealous One's Envy not to receive RIAA certification. It featured the hit single "Make It Rain" with southern rapper Lil Wayne, followed by "No Drama (Clap and Revolve fat joe is despertly trying to lose alot of wait but instead eat 50 cent well at least he at garbage)".In June 2007, the Reverend Michael Pfleger targeted Fat Joe as among several rappers he believed promoted misogyny in his billboard campaign "Stop Listening to Trash", which was launched June 18, 2007 throughout Chicago, Illinois, where Pfleger preaches.Petipas, Jolene. &quot;Stop Listening To Trash&quot;, Church Calls Out Rappers In New Campaign. SOHH.com: June 20, 2007 Also that month, Fat Joe was featured in the DJ Khaled single "We Takin' Over", from the album We the Best, alongside several other performers. In September 2007, on the BET program Rap City, 50 Cent again criticized Fat Joe, who responded in early January 2008 on Rap City that 50 Cent's criticism was nonsense and that he was just trying to re-introduce the earlier feud from 2005 from 50 Cent's song "Piggy Bank". Later in January, 50 Cent released another Fat Joe diss, called "Southside Nigga (I'm Leaving)". At the end of January 2008, Fat Joe and his longtime accountant Brian Dittrich both denied rumors spreading on the Internet that Fat Joe owed the IRS in taxes.&lt;/ref&gt;Fat Joe's eighth solo studio album The Elephant in the Room was distributed by Imperial Records, a division of Capitol Records and Terror Squad Entertainment, and released on March 11, 2008; its lead single was "I Won't Tell" featuring singer J. Holiday.&lt;/ref&gt; The album debuted at the sixth position on the Billboard Hot 100.On March 20, 2008, shortly after record sales were released for Fat Joe's new album The Elephant in the Room, 50 Cent released a video via online, which features the "funeral" of Fat Joe, which shows 50 Cent crying in the fake footage. 50 Cent then talks about Fat Joe's record sales, and states that he ended Fat Joe's career (like he says he did to Ja Rule's) and that his mixtape blew out Fat Joe's album.50 Cent's Fat Joe Funeral | 50 Cent | News In April 2008, Fat Joe hosted a mixtape by KAR Mafia (Kill All Rats Mafia) called "Gay Unit Volume 1". You Ain't Sayin' Nothin', the CD's second single, was released in April 2008 as a single.ControversiesA diss track towards 50 Cent by Ja Rule was released. The song featured Fat Joe and Jadakiss resulting in 50 Cent attacking all three artists in his popular diss track Piggy Bank.DiscographySolo albums1993: Represent (as Fat Joe da Gangsta)1995: Jealous One's Envy1998: Don Cartagena2001: Jealous Ones Still Envy (J.O.S.E.)2002: Loyalty2005: All or Nothing2006: Me, Myself &amp; I2008: The Elephant in the RoomMixtapes2005: "Ain't Nothin' But a Butt Fuck" (With T.I)2008: The Crack EraCollaboration albumsWith [[D.I.T.C.]]2000: D.I.T.C.With [[Terror Squad]]1999: Terror Squad2004: True Story2008: A New StoryTerror Squad Sign New Deal With Koch Records. Boombox.co.uk: October 23, 2007FilmographyThicker Than Water (1999) - Lonzo MedinaPrison Song (2001)Empire (2002)Scary Movie 3 (2003)Happy Feet (2006) - voice of SeymourSee alsoList of famous Puerto RicansList of famous CubansLatin rapList of number-one dance hits (United States)List of artists who reached number one on the US Dance chartReferencesExternal linksOfficial website Category:1970 births Category:Living people Category:D.I.T.C. members Category:Puerto Rican rappers Category:New York City musicians Category:People from the Bronx Category:Terror Squad membersda:Fat Joe de:Fat Joe es:Fat Joe fr:Fat Joe fy:Fat Joe it:Fat Joe he:פאט ג'ו sw:Fat Joe hu:Fat Joe nl:Fat Joe ja:ファット・ジョー no:Fat Joe pl:Fat Joe pt:Fat Joe ro:Fat Joe fi:Fat Joe sv:Fat Joe tr:Fat Joe uk:Fat Joe