Flavius Valerius Severus (or rarely Severus II) (died 16 September, 307) was a Western Roman Emperor from 306 to 307.Severus was of humble birth, born in the Illyrian provinces around the middle of the third century AD. He rose to become a senior officer in the Roman army, and as an old friend of Galerius, that emperor ordered that Severus be appointed Caesar of the Western Roman Empire, a post that he succeeded to on 1 May 305. He thus served as deputy-emperor to Constantius I (Constantius Chlorus), Augustus of the western half of empire.On the death of Constantius I in the summer of 306, Severus was promoted to Augustus by Galerius himself, in opposition to the acclamation of Constantine I (Constantius' son) by his own soldiers. When Maxentius, the son of the retired emperor Maximian, revolted at Rome, Galerius sent Severus to suppress the rebellion. Severus moved from his capital, Mediolanum, towards Rome, at the head of an army previously commanded by Maximian. Fearing Severus' arrival, Maxentius offered Maximian the co-rule of the empire. Maximian accepted, and when Severus arrived under the walls of Rome and besieged it, his men deserted him and passed to Maximian, their old commander. Severus fled to Ravenna, in an impregnable position. Maximian offered to spare Severus' life and treat him humanely if the latter surrendered peaceably, which he did so in March or April 307. Despite Maximian's assurance, Severus was nonetheless displayed as a captive and later imprisoned at Tres Tabernae. When Galerius himself invaded Italy to suppress Maxentius and Maximian, the former ordered Severus' death. He was executed (or forced to commit suicide) on 16 September 307.References[http://www.roman-emperors.org/severus.htm DiMaio, Michael, "Severus II (306-307 A.D.)", De Imperatoribus Romanis]External links    Category:4th century Romans Category:Roman emperors Category:Constantinian dynasty Category:Year of birth unknown Category:307 deathsbg:Север II da:Valerius Severus de:Severus et:Severus el:Σεβήρος es:Severo II eo:Severo eu:Severo II.a fr:Sévère fy:Severus II gl:Flavio Severo hr:Sever it:Flavio Severo he:פלביוס ולריוס סוורוס la:Flavius Valerius Severus hu:Flavius Valerius Severus mr:फ्लाव्हियस व्हॅलेरियस सेव्हेरस nl:Severus II ja:フラウィウス・ウァレリウス・セウェルス no:Flavius Valerius Severus pl:Sewer II ro:Flavius Valerius Severus ru:Флавий Север sr:Север II fi:Severus II sv:Severus II tl:Flavius Valerius Severus tr:Severus II