Gstaad () (Population: 2500) is a village located () 1050 m above sea level, in the German-speaking section of the Canton of Berne in southwestern Switzerland. Gstaad, part of the municipality of Saanen, is known as one of the most exclusive and expensive ski resorts in the world, and has also been the location of Institut Le Rosey's winter campus since 1916.TourismGstaad is known for its extremely luxurious hotels and shopping, high-society nightlife, fine dining, excellent service, and international stars. It is also one of the largest ski areas in the Alps. The town is located in the Bernese Oberland in the Swiss Alps.Gstaad, named "the Place" by Time Magazine in the 1960s, is widely known for its famous part-time residents and vacationers. Current longtime residents of Gstaad include: Alinghi yachting syndicate boss Ernesto Bertarelli, actresses Julie Andrews and Elizabeth Taylor, Formula One Holdings owner Bernie Ecclestone, legendary French actress Jeanne Moreau, iconic French singer Johnny Hallyday, and columnist Taki Theodoracopulos. Former famous residents include actor Roger Moore and director Roman Polanski, violinist Yehudi Menuhin, Prince Rainier and Grace Kelly, modern artist Balthus, and Mohammad Reza Pahlavi. Famous regular visitors to Gstaad have included Michael Jackson, Prince Charles and Princess Diana, former UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan, writer William F. Buckley, Jr. , and a highly publicised romantic ski holiday of Paris Hilton and Greek shipping heir Paris Latsis in December 2005. Other occasional visitors in the past include Margaret Thatcher, actors David Niven and Peter Sellers, real estate entrepreneur Richard White as well as King Juan Carlos and Queen Sofia of Spain. In January 1983, King Juan Carlos fell while skiing in Gstaad and cracked his pelvis, immobilising him for a month.Promenade The middle of the village has been a carfree zone since 1997. Along the Promenade, there are numerous highly-exclusive shops, restaurants and hotels.Regular eventsIn Gstaad, the following regular events are held:the Allianz Suisse Open Gstaad tennis tournament;the "1to1 energy open" beach volleyball tournament;the "Hublot Polo Gold Cup" polo tournament;the "Menuhin Festival" classical music summer series;"Country Night Gstaad".Every December at The Gstaad Palace Hotel, Bonhams auctioneers hold an exclusive Ferrari & Maserati auction which draws in the rich and famous from around the world.In popular cultureGstaad is featured prominently in the 1975 film Return of the Pink Panther,In the 1983 comedy film Trading Places, character Louis Winthorpe III played by Dan Aykroyd says, "Look, it tells time simultaneously in Monte Carlo, Beverly Hills, London, Paris, Rome, and Gstaad."Gstaad was also part of a memorable dialogue in a 1984 episode of the American television series Dynasty between characters Dominique Deveraux (played by Diahann Carroll) and Alexis Colby (played by Joan Collins).NotesExternal linksOfficial Website of Gstaad (in English, French, &amp; German)GstaadLife magazine (in English with links to German sister publication, the Anzeiger von Saanen)Category:Ski areas and resorts in Switzerlandca:Gstaad de:Gstaad es:Gstaad fr:Gstaad it:Gstaad nl:Gstaad pl:Gstaad pt:Gstaad sv:Gstaad