 | birthplace = Evanston, Illinois, United States | birthname = William Louis Petersen | yearsactive = 1981-present | spouse = Joanne Brady(1974-1981)Gina Cirone(2003-present) | academyawards = | emmyawards = | sagawards = Best Ensemble - Drama Series2005 CSI: Crime Scene Investigation  William Louis Petersen (born February 21, 1953) is a Golden Globe and Emmy nominated American actor and producer, best known for playing Gil Grissom on CSI: Crime Scene Investigation.BiographyEarly lifePetersen, the youngest of six children, was born in Evanston, Illinois, to parents who worked in the furniture business.William Petersen Biography (1953-)&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; His father is Danish-American, and his mother is German-American.&lt;/ref&gt; He graduated from Bishop Kelly High School in Boise, Idaho, in 1972. He was accepted to Idaho State University on a football scholarship. While at Idaho State, Petersen took an acting course which changed the direction of his life. He left school along with his wife, Joanne, in 1974 and followed a drama professor to Basque country where he studied as a Shakespearean actor. Petersen was interested in Basque culture and he studied the Basque language, Euskera, and gave his daughter the Basque name Maite (meaning love). Petersen returned to Idaho intent on being an actor. Not wanting to work a non-acting job in Idaho, he returned to the Chicago area, living with relatives. He became active in the theater and earned his Actors' Equity card. He performed with the Steppenwolf Theatre Company and was a co-founder of the Remains Theater Ensemble which also included other prominent Chicago actors Gary Cole and Ted Levine.CareerHe is usually credited without his middle initial (i.e. credited as "William Petersen" and not "William L. Petersen"). Because his role in Manhunter was so emotionally exhausting, he did everything he could to rid himself of Will Graham after finishing principal photography. He shaved off his beard, cut his hair and dyed it blonde. He also claims to have done this because, while rehearsing for a play in Chicago, his dialogue was always coming out Will Graham; he dyed his hair so he could look in the mirror and see a different person.Inside Manhunter: Interviews with stars William Petersen, Joan Allen, Brian Cox and Tom Noonan In a move perhaps indicative of his career choices, Petersen declined a part in Oliver Stone's Platoon, as it would have kept him in the Philippines, away from his family. Instead, he worked on the 1987 made-for-TV movie Long Gone.In 1985's To Live and Die in L.A., Petersen appears frontally nude, briefly. Petersen was offered the role of Henry Hill in the movie Goodfellas, but turned it down. In 1993, Petersen appeared in the miniseries "Return to Lonesome Dove," and in 1996, appeared in Fear. Both projects featured him as a character with the surname "Walker."In the 2000 release, The Contender, Petersen played the role of Governor Jack Hathaway, an unscrupulous candidate for vice president following the death of the incumbent. He also appeared uncredited in the noir thriller Mulholland Falls as a character who finds himself on the violent receiving end of Los Angeles police.and William Petersen on a 2003 episode of CSI.]] Since 2000, Petersen has gained his greatest fame starring as Dr. Gil Grissom in the CBS crime drama CSI: Crime Scene Investigation. Petersen recently took a break from CSI to appear in a five-week run of the Trinity Repertory CompanyTrinity Repertory Company - home&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; production of Dublin Carol in Providence, Rhode Island. On the evening of Wednesday, May 30, 2007 Petersen was at Wrigley Field to join WGN radio sportscasters covering a Chicago Cubs – Florida Marlins game and he mentioned he had seen CSI: The Experience at the Museum of Science and Industry on the South Side of Chicago. He was on a nine-week break from the show at the time, and he expressed how he and his castmates were “blessed” to have such a successful series when he had seen shows starring friends cancelled after only a few episodes.According to Michael Ausiello of TV Guide, Petersen has renewed his contract with CBS to appear on CSI for the 2008-2009 season, reportedly for $600,000 per episode. William Petersen Renews CSI Contract" TV Guide. March 31, 2008. Retrieved on April 1 2008. On July 15, 2008, the Associated Press reported that Petersen was leaving the show as a regular following Season 9's tenth episode in order to pursue more stage acting opportunities but that he will return for guest spots during the show's run, as needed. He will remain an Executive Producer of the show.Personal lifePetersen married longtime girlfriend Gina Cirone in June 2003. He has a daughter, Maite, from his previous marriage. (Maite gave birth to his grandson, Mazrik William, in October 2003.) Petersen is an avid Chicago Cubs fan, and will drop by Wrigley Field at least once a year to sing "Take Me Out to the Ballgame" during the seventh-inning stretch. In 2004, Petersen described to Playboy Magazine a near-death experience he had in the 1980s, which gave him assurance that there is an afterlife.Near-death experiences of the Hollywood rich and famous&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;FilmographyThief (1981) (credited as William L. Peterson)To Live and Die in L.A. (1985) ... Richard Chance (credited as William L. Petersen)Manhunter (1986) ... Will GrahamAmazing Grace and Chuck (1987)Long Gone (TV) (1987)Cousins (1989)Young Guns II (1990) ... Pat GarrettPassed Away (1992)Return to Lonesome Dove (mini series) (1993) ... Gideon WalkerHard Promises (1991 in film)...Joey (Credited as '' William L. Peterson'')Deadly Currents (1993)In the Kingdom of the Blind, the Man With One Eye Is King (1995) ... Tony C.Fear (1996) ... Steve WalkerThe Beast (1996) (miniseries) ... Whip Dalton12 Angry Men (1997) (TV) ... Juror #12Gunshy (1998) http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0119238 ... Jake BridgesThe Staircase (1998) ... JoadThe Rat Pack (TV) (1998) ... John F. KennedyKiss the Sky (1999) ... JeffThe Skulls (2000) ... Ames LevrittThe Contender (2000) ... Gov. Jack HathawayCSI: Crime Scene Investigation (2000 – 2008) ... Gil GrissomReferencesExternal linkshttp://www.billypetersen.com/ The William Petersen Appreciation PageScreen grabs, press stills and information about Petersen's famous role in Michael Mann's &quot;Manhunter&quot; (1986)William Petersen Bio at CBS - CSI: Crime Scene Investigationbillypetersenrocks.com - Fan Site Category:1953 births Category:Actors from Chicago Category:American film actors Category:American stage actors Category:American television actors Category:Idaho State Bengals football players Category:Living people Category:People from Boise, Idaho Category:Idaho State University alumni Category:People from Evanston, Illinois category:Danish Americans Category:German-American actorscs:William Petersen da:William L. Petersen de:William Petersen et:William Petersen es:William Petersen fr:William L. Petersen ko:윌리엄 피터슨 hr:William Petersen it:William Petersen nl:William Petersen ja:ウィリアム・ピーターセン no:William Petersen pl:William Petersen pt:William Louis Petersen fi:William Petersen sv:William L. Petersen zh:威廉·彼德森