 | birth_place = Kutaisi, Georgian SSR, Soviet Union | spouse = Badri Bitsadze | party = EMN  Nino Burjanadze (, Georgian: ნინო ბურჯანაძე) (surname sometimes transliterated in English as Burdzhanadze or Burdjanadze), (born July 16, 1964) is a Georgian politician and jurist who served as Chairperson of the Parliament of Georgia from November 2001 to June 2008. She has served as the acting head of state of Georgia twice; the first time from November 23, 2003 to January 25, 2004 in the wake of Eduard Shevardnadze's resignation during the Rose Revolution, and again from November 25, 2007 to January 20, 2008, when Mikheil Saakashvili stepped down to rerun in the early presidential elections.Early life and careerNino Burjanadze was born in Kutaisi, then-Soviet Georgia. She graduated in 1986 from the Faculty of Law of the Tbilisi State University (TSU) and afterwards pursued education at the Moscow State University from which she graduated with a doctorate in International Law in 1990. In 1991, she became an docent (Associate Professor) of the Faculty of International Law at the Tbilisi State University. At the same time, she worked as an expert-consultant in international law for the Parliament of Georgia and the Ministry for Environment Protection and Natural Resources.Political careerIn 1995, Burjanadze was elected to the Parliament of Georgia from the Union of Citizens of Georgia (UCG) then chaired by the President of Georgia Eduard Shevardnadze and supported financially by her father Anzor Burjanadze, a wealthy businessman.. She first chaired the Parliamentary Committee for Constitutional Law from 1998 to 1999, and the Parliamentary Committee for International Relations from 2000 to 2001. During the years, she became known as a supporter of pro-Western values and proponent of Georgia's integration with NATO and the European Union. She was closely allied with the reformist wing within the UCG led by Mikheil Saakashvili and Zurab Zhvania whom she succeeded as the paliamentary chairperson after Zhvania resigned in November 2001.Although she gave Shevardnadze strong support in his dealings with foreign countries (in particular with Russia), she spoke out forcefully against the corruption and inefficiency of his government's domestic policy, declaring it to be "absolutely incompetent." She left the CUG in 2002, forming an opposition party called the Burjanadze-Democrats to fight the November 2003 parliamentary elections.After the rigged parliamentary elections of November 2, 2003, she joined other opposition leaders in denouncing the election results and urging mass demonstrations against Shevardnadze. The terms of the Georgian constitution automatically made her the acting president when Shevardnadze resigned on November 23. One of Burjanadze's first actions was to appeal for national unity and repeal the state of emergency declared by Shevardnadze, in an effort to restore stability to a country with a long history of political violence. She was an obvious candidate for the post, as she is widely respected by her compatriots - opinion polling in 2003 showed her to be one of Georgia's three most popular political figures.On January 4, 2004, Mikhail Saakashvili won the pre-term presidential elections in Georgia with an overwhelming majority. He was inaugurated on January 25. A new Parliament was elected on March 28, with Burjanadze resuming her old post as Speaker on April 22.Following a political crisis in late 2007, Saakashvili called new parliamentary and presidential elections for January 2008. In order to contest the presidential election, Saakashvili announced his resignation effective 25 November, 2007, with Burjanadze becoming acting president for a second time (until the election returned Saakashvili to office on January 20, 2008).Burjanadze was designated to lead the United National Movement party list for the parliamentary elections scheduled on May 21, 2008, but on April 21 she announced, in a surprise move, that she would not seek reelection due to a lack of consensus in the compilation of the National Movement's party list.Georgia: In Surprise Move, Burjanadze Says She Won't Seek Reelection. Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty. April 22, 2008. Burjanadze's term as a parliamentary chairperson expired with the new legislature's inaugural session on June 7, 2008, when she was succeeded by David Bakradze.Bakradze Elected as New Parliamentary Chairman. Civil Georgia. 2008-06-07.In June 2008, Burjanadze announced she would set up a think tank that would serve as "a new form of being in politics."Burjanadze Speaks of her Plans. Civil Georgia. 2008-06-18. The organization — the Foundation for Democracy and Development (FDD) — was inaugurated in Tbilisi on July 7, 2008.Burjanadze Launches Foundation. Civil Georgia. 2008-07-07.Personal lifeBurjanadze is married to Badri Bitsadze, the current head of the Department of Georgian State Border Defense. They have two sons.ReferencesExternal linksNino Burjanadze (official biography). Parliament of Georgia.      Category:1964 births Category:Living people Category:Presidents of Georgia (country) Category:Georgian politicians Category:Moscow State University alumni Category:People from Kutaisi Category:Female heads of statebg:Нино Бурджанадзе ca:Nino Burjanadze cs:Nino Burdžanadze de:Nino Burdschanadse et:Nino Burdžanadze el:Νίνο Μπουριανάντζε es:Nino Buryanadze fr:Nino Bourdjanadze io:Nino Burjanadze id:Nino Burjanadze it:Ninò Burdzhanadze he:נינו בורג'נדזה ka:ნინო ბურჯანაძე nl:Nino Boerdzjanadze ja:ニノ・ブルジャナゼ oc:Nino Burjanadze pl:Nino Burdżanadze pt:Nino Burjanadze ru:Бурджанадзе, Нино Анзоровна fi:Nino Burdžanadze sv:Nino Burdzjanadze tr:Nino Burcanadze uk:Бурджанадзе Ніно Анзорівна zh:妮诺·布尔贾纳泽