Andrei Rublev (Andrew Rublev, Andrey Rublev, Andrey Roublyov, Russian: Андре́й Рублёв) (c.1360 or 1370 - 1427 or January 29, 1430) is considered to be the greatest medieval Russian iconographer (painter of Orthodox icons and frescoes).BiographyThere is little information about his life. It is not known where he was born. Andrei Rublev probably lived in the Trinity-St. Sergius Lavra near Moscow under Nikon of Radonezh, who became hegumen after the death of Sergii Radonezhsky (1392).The first mention of Rublev is in 1405 when he decorated icons and frescos for the Cathedral of the Annunciation of the Moscow Kremlin in company with Theophanes the Greek and Prokhor of Gorodets. His name was the last of the list of masters as the junior both by rank and by age.Chronicles tell us that in 1408 he painted (together with Daniil Cherni) the Assumption Cathedral in Vladimir and in 1425&ndash;1427 the Cathedral of St. Trinity in the Trinity-St. Sergius Lavra. After Daniil's death Andrei came to Moscow's Andronikov Monastery where he painted his last work, the frescoes of the Savior Cathedral.He is also believed to have painted at least one of the miniatures in the Khitrovo Gospels..]]The only work authenticated as entirely his is the icon of the Trinity, ca. 1410 (shown at left), currently in the Fred Jones Jr. Museum of Art in Norman. It is based upon an earlier icon known as the "Hospitality of Abraham" (illustrating ). Rublev removed the figures of Abraham and Sarah from the scene, and through a subtle use of composition and symbolism changed the subject to focus on the Mystery of the Trinity.In Rublev's art, two traditions are combined: the highest asceticism and the classic harmony of Byzantine mannerism. The characters of his paintings are always peaceful and calm. After some time his art came to be perceived as the ideal of Church painting and of Orthodox iconography.Andrei died at Andronikov Monastery on January 29 of 1430 (this date is still questionable). His work has influenced many different artists including Dionisy. At the Stoglavi Sobor (1551) Rublev's icon style was announced as a model for church painting. He was canonized a saint in 1988 by the Russian Orthodox Church. The church celebrates his feast day on January 29 and July 4.Church Calendar &lt;/ref&gt;&lt;ref name = &quot;SHC&quot;/&gt;Since 1959 the Andrei Rublev Museum has been open at the Andronnikov Monastery, displaying the art of his works and his epoch.In 1966, Andrei Tarkovsky made his celebrated film, Andrei Rublev loosely based on the artist's life, which shows him as "a world-historic figure" and "Christianity as an axiom of Russia's historical identity"&lt;/ref&gt; during a [[Timeline of the Tataro-Mongol Yoke in Russia|turbulent period]] in the [[history of Russia]]The 1998 horror novel The Vampire Armand by Anne Rice featured a young man, who was born himself in Russia under the name of Andrei (his last name is not revealed). The story claims that 'Andrei' was a renowned icon painter himself, his history bearing a great resemblance to Rublev's.Selected works Image:RozdestvoHristovo RublevBlagSoborMK.jpg|Nativity of Jesus, 1405 (Cathedral of the Annunciation, Moscow Kremlin) Image:Kreschenie RublevBlagSoborMK.JPG|Baptism of Jesus, 1405 (Cathedral of the Annunciation, Moscow) Image:Rublev blagoveshenie.jpg|Annunciation, 1405 (Cathedral of the Annunciation, Moscow) Image:Rublev3.jpg|Theotokos of Vladimir, ca. 1405 Image:Архангел Михаил. Андрей Рублев..jpg|St. Michael, 1408 (Iconostasis at Dormition Cathedral, Vladimir) Image:Rublev Gavriil.jpg|St. Gabriel, 1408 (Dormition Cathedral, Vladimir) Image:Rublev andrey pervozvaniy.jpg|St. Andrew the First-called, 1408 (Dormition Cathedral, Vladimir) Image:Rublev grigoriy bogoslov.jpg|St. Gregory the Theologian, 1408 (Dormition Cathedral, Vladimir) Image:Rublev bogomater.jpg|Theotokos from Deësis, 1408 (Dormition Cathedral, Vladimir) Some think this may be the work of Theophanes the Greek Image:Rublev ioann bogoslov.jpg|St. John the Theologian, 1408 (Dormition Cathedral, Vladimir) Image:Rublev ioann predtecha.jpg|St. John the Baptist, 1408 (Dormition Cathedral, Vladimir) Image:Rublev spas v silach.jpg|Savior in Glory, 1408 (Dormition Cathedral, Vladimir) Image:Rublev soshestvie vo ad.jpg|Harrowing of Hell, 1408-1410 (Vladimir) Image:Rublev's saviour.jpg|Christ the Redeemer ca. 1410 (Tretyakov Gallery, Moscow) Image:Rublev vosnesenie.jpg|Ascension, 1408 (Tretyakov Gallery, Moscow) Image:Rublev Paul.jpg|Apostle Paul, 1410s (Tretyakov Gallery, Moscow) ReferencesSee alsoAndrei Rublev, a 1966 film by Andrei Tarkovsky loosely based on the painter's life.External linksAndrey Rublev Official Web SiteRublev at the Russian Art GallerySelected works by Andrei Rublev: icons, frescoes and miniatures&quot;The Deesis painted by Andrey Rublev&quot; from the Annunciation Church of the Moscow Kremlin - article by Dr. Oleg G. UliyanovHistorical documentation on Andrei Rublev, compiled by Robert BirdThe Andrei Rublev Museum of Ancient Russian Art – Guide to visiting the museumVenerable Andrew Rublev the Iconographer Orthodox icon and synaxarionRublev, Andrei Rublev, Andrei Rublev, Andrei Rublev, Andrei Rublev, Andrei Rublev, Andrei Category:Manuscript illuminators Category:15th century Christian saintsbg:Андрей Рубльов da:Andrei Rublev de:Andrei Rubljow et:Andrei Rubljov el:Αντρέι Ρουμπλιόβ es:Andréi Rubliov eo:Andreo Rublov fr:Andreï Roublev it:Andrej Rublëv ka:ანდრია რუბლიოვი hu:Andrej Rubljov mk:Андреј Рубљов nl:Andrej Roebljov ja:アンドレイ・ルブリョフ no:Andrej Rubljov nn:Andrej Rubljov pl:Andrej Rublow pt:Andrei Rublev ru:Андрей Рублёв sk:Andrej Rubľov sr:Андреј Рубљов fi:Andrei Rubljov sv:Andrej Rubljov uk:Рубльов Андрій zh:安德烈·魯布烈夫