 A portmanteau is used broadly to mean a blend of two (or more) words,Oxford English Dictionary, Portmanteau definition 4b, giving Carroll as first user, second usage appearing in 1882 in the Cornhill Magazine and narrowly in some linguistics fields to mean only a blend of two or more function words. Meaning"Portmanteau word" is used to describe a linguistic blend, namely "a word formed by blending sounds from two or more distinct words and combining their meanings".Such a definition of "portmanteau word" overlaps with the grammatical term contraction, and linguists avoid using the former term in such cases. As an example: the words do + not become the contraction don't, a single word that represents the meaning of the combined words.An arguably humorous synonym for "portmanteau word" is "frankenword", itself a portmanteau word, blending "Frankenstein" and "word".Victor Frankenstein being the creator of the monster in Mary Shelley's novel Frankenstein, or the Modern Prometheus, the monster being constructed from parts from several bodies. OriginThe usage of the word 'portmanteau' in this sense first appeared in Lewis Carroll's book Through the Looking-Glass (1871), in which Humpty Dumpty explains to Alice the coinage of the unusual words in Jabberwocky:Fromkin, V., Rodman, R., and Hyams, N. (2007) An Introduction to Language, Eighth Edition. Boston: Thomson Wadsworth. ISBN 1-4130-1773-8"‘slithy’ means ‘lithe and slimy’... You see it's like a portmanteau&mdash;there are two meanings packed up into one word""‘Mimsy’ is ‘flimsy and miserable’ (there's another portmanteau ... for you)".Carroll uses the word again when discussing lexical selection: Humpty Dumpty's theory, of two meanings packed into one word like a portmanteau, seems to me the right explanation for all. For instance, take the two words "fuming" and "furious." Make up your mind that you will say both words ... you will say "frumious.". Carroll suggests here a double metaphor. The original meaning of the word 'portmanteau' is a form of suitcase containing two separated hinged compartments; thus: two distinct words, packed as one. The word 'portmanteau' is itself a 'portmanteau word', deriving from the two French words porter (to carry) and manteau (cloak or mantle).Examples" pictured in an 1812 cartoon. The word is a portmanteau of Massachusetts Governor Gerry's name, with "salamander"]]Many neologisms are examples of blends, but many blends have become part of the lexicon. In Punch in 1896, the word brunch (breakfast + lunch) was introduced as a "portmanteau word".Punch, 1 August 1896, 58/2 In 1964, the newly independent African republic of Tanganyika and Zanzibar chose the portmanteau word Tanzania as its name."Wikipedia" is itself an example of a portmanteau word because it combines the word "wiki" and "encyclopedia." Sysop is an example as well, combining "system" and "operator."Blaxploitation is a film genre/style, whose name derives from a portmanteau of "black" and "exploitation", reflecting its main theme of social problems and crime amongst African American people.Portmanteau words may be produced by joining together proper nouns with common nouns, such as "gerrymandering," which refers to the scheme of Massachusetts Governor Elbridge Gerry for politically contrived redistricting: one of the districts created had the semblance of a salamander in outline. Two proper names can also be used in creating a portmanteau word in reference to the partnership between people, especially in a case where both persons are well known, or sometimes to produce epithets such as "Billary" (referring to former United States president Bill Clinton and Hillary Rodham Clinton). In this example of recent American political history, the purpose for blending is not so much to combine the meanings of the source words but "to suggest a resemblance of one named person to the other" and the effect is often derogatory, as linguist Benjamin Zimmer notes.http://itre.cis.upenn.edu/~myl/languagelog/archives/002610.html Language Log: A Perilous Portmanteau?Portmanteaux (or portmanteaushttp://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/portmanteau&lt;/ref&gt;) can also be created by attaching a prefix or suffix from one word to give that association to other words. Subsequent to the Watergate Scandal, it became popular to attach the suffix "-gate" to other words to describe contemporary scandals, e.g. "Filegate" for the White House FBI files controversy. Likewise, the suffix "-holism" or "-holic", taken from the word "alcoholism" or "alcoholic", can be added to a noun, creating a word that describes an addiction to that noun. Chocoholic, for example, means a person who is addicted to chocolate.Portmanteau words can be used to describe bilingual speakers who use words from both languages while speaking. For instance a person would be considered speaking "Spanglish" if they are using both Spanish and English words to voice a complete thought.Portmanteau morphIn linguistics, the term blend is used to refer to general combination of words, and the term “portmanteau” is reserved for the narrow sense of combining two ''function'' words. Examples of such combination include French “à le” → au, and “de le” → du. This usage has been referred to as 'portmanteau morph'.See alsoCompound words-holismList of scandals with &quot;-gate&quot; suffixList of syllabic abbreviationsNeologismPseudo-anglicismSyllabic abbreviationDouble entendreReferencesCategory:Linguistics Category:Types of words Category:French words and phrasesbs:Portmanteau da:Portmanteau de:Kofferwort es:Portmanteau eo:Kofrovorto fr:Mot-valise id:Portmanteau it:Parola macedonia he:הלחם בסיסים la:Portmanteau hu:Szóösszerántás nl:Portmanteau ja:かばん語 ko:혼성어 no:Teleskopord pl:Kontaminacja (językoznawstwo) pt:Palavra-valise ro:Cuvânt telescopat sv:Teleskopord zh:混成詞