  | Img = | Img_capt = | Img_size =  | Landscape = | Background = group_or_band | Origin = Jacksonville, Florida, U.S. | Genre = Southern rock, hard rock, blues-rock | Years_active = 1970–19771987-present | Label = MCA, Atlantic, Capricorn, SPV Records, CMC International, Sanctuary, Universal | Associated_acts = .38 Special, Van Zant, Rossington Collins Band, Allen Collins Band | URL = LynyrdSkynyrd.com | Current_members = Johnny Van ZantGary RossingtonBilly PowellRickey MedlockeEan EvansMichael CartelloneMark Matejka | Past_members = Ronnie Van Zant (deceased)Allen Collins (deceased)Leon Wilkeson (deceased)Steve Gaines (deceased)Cassie Gaines (deceased)Hughie Thomasson (deceased)Bob BurnsKurt CusterLarry JunstromEd KingArtimus PyleJoJo BillingsleyLeslie HawkinsRandall Hall Lynyrd Skynyrd () is an American Southern rock band. The band became prominent in the Southern United States in 1973, and rose to worldwide recognition before several members, including lead vocalist and primary songwriter Ronnie Van Zant, died in a plane crash in 1977 five miles northeast of Gillsburg, Mississippi. A tribute band was formed in 1987 for a reunion tour with Johnny Van Zant, Ronnie's younger brother, at the helm, and continues to record music today. The band was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame on March 13, 2006.HistoryEarly yearsIn the summer of 1964, teenage friends Ronnie Van Zant (vocals), Allen Collins, and Gary Rossington (guitar), formed the band "The Noble Five", which then changed in 1965 to "My Backyard", when Larry Junstrom (bass) and Bob Burns (drums) joined in Jacksonville, Florida. Their early influences included British Invasion bands such as Free, The Yardbirds, the Rolling Stones, and The Beatles, as well as Southern blues and country &amp; western music, and later The Allman Brothers Band. In 1968, the group won a local Battle of the Bands contest and the opening slot on several Southeast shows for the California-based psychedelic rock band Strawberry Alarm Clock.In 1970, roadie Billy Powell became keyboardist for the band, and Van Zant sought a new name. "One Percent" and "The Noble Five" were each considered before the group settled on Leonard Skinnerd, a mocking tribute to a gym teacher at Robert E. Lee High School, Leonard Skinner, who was notorious for strictly enforcing the school's policy against boys having long hair.Robert E. Lee high school website&quot;Origins of bands' names&quot; The more distinctive spelling was adopted before they released their first album.Despite their high school acrimony, the band developed a friendlier relationship with Skinner in later years, and invited him to introduce them at a concert in the Jacksonville Memorial Coliseum.The band continued to perform throughout the South in the early 1970s, further developing their hard-driving, blues-rock sound and image. In 1972, Leon Wilkeson replaced Larry Junstrom on bass, but left just before the band was to record its first album (Wilkeson rejoined the band shortly thereafter at Van Zant's invitation). Strawberry Alarm Clock guitarist Ed King filled in as bass player, later switching to guitar after the album's release, allowing the band to replicate the three-guitar mix used in the studio.In 1970, the band auditioned for Alan Walden who would later become their manager on the newly formed Hustler's Inc. Walden worked with the band until 1974, when management was turned over to Pete Rudge.Peak years (1973&amp;ndash;1977)In 1972 the band was discovered by musician, songwriter, and producer Al Kooper of Blood, Sweat, and Tears, who had attended one of their shows at a club in Atlanta. They changed the spelling of their name to "Lynyrd Skynyrd",Lynyrd Skynyrd history, by Judy Van Zant Jenness and Kooper signed them to MCA Records, producing their first album the following year. 1973's (pronounced 'lĕh-'nérd 'skin-'nérd) featured the hit song "Free Bird", which received national airplay, eventually reaching #19 on the Billboard Hot 100 charts, and is still considered a Rock and Roll anthem today.Lynyrd Skynyrd's fan base continued to grow rapidly throughout 1973, largely due to their opening slot on The Who's Quadrophenia tour in the United States. Their 1974 follow-up, Second Helping, was the band's breakthrough hit, and featured their most popular single, "Sweet Home Alabama" (#8 on the charts in August 1974), a tongue in cheek response to Neil Young's "Alabama" and "Southern Man." (Young and Van Zant were not rivals, but fans of each other's music and good friends; Young even wrote the song "Powderfinger" for the band, but they never recorded itSimmons, Sylvie. Neil Young: Reflections in Broken Glass. ?: Canongate, 2002. 135. Google Books. 10 May 2008. US National Transportation Safety Board 1978 Accident Report, p. 3. | On Thursday, October 20, 1977, just three days after the release of Street Survivors, and four dates into their most successful headlining tour to date, Lynyrd Skynyrd's chartered Convair 240 developed mechanical difficulties near the end of their flight from Greenville, South Carolina to LSU in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. Though the pilots attempted an emergency landing on a small airstrip, the plane ran out of fuel and crashed in a forest near Gillsburg, Mississippi. Ronnie Van Zant, Steve Gaines, Cassie Gaines, assistant road manager Dean Kilpatrick, pilot Walter McCreary and co-pilot William Gray were all killed on impact. Medical personnel arrived quickly and began to ferry out the injured and the dead. Victims were taken to the hospital in nearby McComb and Jackson by ambulances and other vehicles. Allen Collins suffered two cracked vertebrae in his neck, and both Collins and Leon Wilkeson nearly had arms amputated as a result of crash injuries. Wilkeson suffered severe internal injuries, including a punctured lung, and had most of his teeth knocked out. Gary Rossington broke both of his arms, both of his legs and his pelvis in the crash. as well as sustaining puncture wounds to his stomach and liver, and took many months to recuperate. Leslie Hawkins sustained a concussion (which led to ongoing neurological problems), broke her neck in three places and had severe facial lacerations. Road crew member Steve Lawler suffered severe contusions and facial lacerations. Security manager Gene Odom was seriously burned on his arm and face and lost the sight in one eye as a result of an emergency flare on board the plane that was activated during the crash. Keyboardist Billy Powell's nose was nearly torn off as he suffered severe facial lacerations (as well as deep lacerations to his right knee), and he later caused a controversy by giving a lurid account of Cassie Gaines' final moments on a VH-1 Behind The Music special about the band, claiming that the backing singer's throat was cut from ear to ear and that she bled to death in his arms. Powell also claimed that Ronnie Van Zant's head had been smashed. Powell's version of events has been discounted by both Artimus Pyle and Judy Van Zant Jenness, who posted the autopsy reports on the band's website in early 1998 in order to set the record straight.Brant 2002, pg. 155. Despite this faux pas, Powell has remained on good terms with the remaining band members since the incident, but has been castigated in print by Pyle and Van Zant Jenness for needlessly upsetting the Gaines family.Pyle, the only band member who was ambulatory, crawled out of the plane wreckage with several broken ribs, and hiked some distance from the crash site through swampy woods with road crew members Kenneth Peden, Jr. and Marc Frank. The three injured men finally flagged down farmer Johnny Mote, who had come to investigate. Varying accounts have Mote either firing a warning shot into the air or actually shooting Pyle in the shoulder &mdash; no report is completely reliable. Pyle claimed in a February 2007 appearance on Howard Stern's Sirius radio program that Mote had shot him; Mote has always denied shooting the drummer. Video of a barechested Pyle at the 1979 Volunteer Jam does not show evidence of a gunshot wound.Notably, the third member of The Honkettes, JoJo Billingsley, was not on the plane and in fact was home tending to a family member's illness.Brant 2002, pg. 147. She was planning to join the tour in Little Rock, Arkansas on October 23. Billingsley claimed that she had dreamed of the plane crash and begged Allen Collins by telephone not to continue using the Convair.Brant 2002, pg. 151. On hearing of the accident, Billingsley was so shaken that some of her hair fell out.The Convair 240 itself had been inspected by members of Aerosmith's flight crew for possible use in the early summer of 1977, but was rejected because it was felt that neither the plane nor the crew were up to standards. Aerosmith's assistant chief of flight operations Zunk Buker tells of seeing pilots McCreary and Gray trading a bottle of Jack Daniel's back and forth while he and his father were inspecting the plane. Aerosmith's touring family was also relieved because the band, specifically Steven Tyler and Joe Perry, had been trying to pressure their management into renting that specific plane.Aerosmith with Stephen Davis. Walk This Way: The Autobiography of Aerosmith, Avon Books, New York, 1997. ISBN 0-380-97594-7. Page 304. It was known that the right engine's magneto — a small power generator that provides spark and timing for the engine — had been malfunctioning (Powell, among others, spoke of seeing flames shooting out of the right engine on a trip just prior to the accident), and that pilots McCreary and Gray had intended to repair the damaged part when the traveling party arrived in Baton Rouge. Cassie Gaines was reportedly so fearful of flying in the Convair that she offered to ride in the band's equipment truck instead; Ronnie Van Zant had talked her onto the airplane on October 20.Brant 2002, pg. 151. It is possible that the damaged magneto fooled the pilots into creating an exceptionally rich fuel mixture, causing the Convair to run out of fuel. It was suggested on the VH-1 Behind The Music profile on Skynyrd that the pilots, panicking when the right engine failed, accidentally dumped the remaining fuel. Pyle maintains in the Howard Stern interview that the fuel gauge in the older model plane malfunctioned and the pilots had failed to manually check the tanks before taking off, although it is common practice in all but the largest transport-category aircraft to manually check fuel quantities to verify fuel gauge indications. In his book Lynyrd Skynyrd: Remembering the Free Birds of Southern Rock, Gene Odom makes an unsubstantiated accusation that co-pilot William Gray was impaired because he had spent part the previous night snorting cocaine; the toxicology reports from both pilots' autopsies had found them to be clean for drugs and alcohol.Lynyrd Skynyrd disbanded after the tragedy (although the surviving members, plus Judy Van Zant and Teresa Gaines, reunited to perform an instrumental version of "Free Bird" at Charlie Daniels' Volunteer Jam in January 1979). Following the crash and the ensuing press, Street Survivors became the band's second platinum album and reached #5 on the U.S. album chart. The single "What's Your Name" reached #13 on the single airplay charts in January of 1978.MCA Records withdrew the original cover sleeve of Street Survivors and replaced it with a similar image of the band against a simple black background out of respect for the deceased.The 'Lynyrd Skynyrd' Crash, Check-Six.com. Thirty years later, the original "flames" cover was restored.Hiatus (1977&amp;ndash;1987)Rossington, Collins, Wilkeson and Powell formed The Rossington-Collins Band, which released two albums between 1980 and 1982. Deliberately avoiding comparisons with Ronnie Van Zant as well as suggestions that this band was Lynyrd Skynyrd reborn, Rossington and Collins chose a woman, Dale Krantz, as lead vocalist. However, as an acknowledgment of their past, the band's concert encore would always be an instrumental version of "Free Bird." Rossington and Collins eventually had a falling out over the affections of Dale Krantz, whom Rossington married and with whom he formed the Rossington Band, which released two albums in the late 1980's and opened for the Lynyrd Skynyrd Tribute Tour in 1987-88.Tragedy seemed to stalk Allen Collins. In 1980, his wife Kathy had died of an massive hemorrhage while pregnant with their third child, the unborn fetus dying as well. Many point to this as the moment where Collins' life began to spin hopelessly out of control. He formed the Allen Collins Band in 1983, releasing one tepidly-received album, but many around him believed that the guitarist's heart just wasn't in it anymore. Finally in 1986 Collins crashed his car while driving drunk near his home in Jacksonville, killing his girlfriend and leaving him permanently paralyzed from the chest down; he eventually pled no contest to DUI manslaughter, but avoided jail time since his injuries made it obvious that he would never drive or be a danger to society again.The other former members of Lynyrd Skynyrd continued to make music during the hiatus era. Billy Powell played keyboards in a Christian Rock band named Vision, touring with established Christian rocker Mylon LeFevre (who, like Skynyrd, had once opened for The Who). During Vision concerts, Powell's trademark keyboard talent was often spotlighted and he spoke about his conversion to Christianity after the near-fatal plane crash. Pyle formed The Artimus Pyle Band in 1982, which occasionally featured former Honkettes JoJo Billingsley and Leslie Hawkins.Reunion years (1987&amp;ndash;present)In 1987, Lynyrd Skynyrd reunited for a full-scale tour with crash survivors Gary Rossington, Billy Powell, Leon Wilkeson and Artimus Pyle and former guitarist Ed King. Ronnie Van Zant's younger brother, Johnny, took over as the new lead singer and primary songwriter. Due to Collins' paralysis from the 1986 car accident, he was only able to participate as the musical director, choosing Randall Hall, his former bandmate in the Allen Collins Band, as his stand-in. As part of his plea deal, Collins would be wheeled out onstage each night to explain to the audience why he could no longer perform (usually before the performance of "That Smell," which had been partially directed at him). Collins was stricken with pneumonia in 1989 and died on January 23, 1990.The reunited band was meant to be a one-time tribute to the original lineup, captured on the double-live album Southern By The Grace Of God/Lynyrd Skynyrd Tribute Tour - 1987. The fact that the band chose to continue after the 1987 tribute tour caused legal problems for the survivors, as Judy Van Zant Jenness and Teresa Gaines Rapp (widows of Ronnie and Steve, respectively) sued the others for violating an agreement made shortly after the plane crash, stating that they would not "exploit" the Skynyrd name for profit. As part of the settlement, Jenness and Rapp collect nearly 30% of the band's touring revenues (representing the shares their husbands would have earned had they lived), and hold a proviso which forces any band touring as "Lynyrd Skynyrd" to contain at least two members of the pre-crash lineup. Since Collins and Wilkeson are now dead, Ed King unable to tour due to ongoing heart problems, and Pyle on the outs with the others and facing his own legal problems, that leaves Gary Rossington and Billy Powell as the Skynyrd standard-bearers.Wilkeson's long time friend Byron "Red" Glover, was Skynyrd's fill-in guitarist and functioned as a substitute when needed. During several concerts, Red was dragged up on stage by Wilkeson to play with the band.The reconstituted Lynyrd Skynyrd has gone through several lineup changes and continues to record and tour today. Leon Wilkeson, Skynyrd's bassist since 1972, was found dead in his hotel room due to liver / lung disease on July 27, 2001. The remaining members released a double album called Thyrty which had songs from the original line up to the present. Lynyrd Skynyrd also released a live DVD of their Vicious Cycle Tour and on June 22, 2004 Lynyrd Skynyrd released the album Lyve: The Vicious Cycle Tour. On December 10, 2004 Lynyrd Skynyrd did a show for CMT, Crossroads, a concert featuring country duo Montgomery Gentry and other genres of music.In the beginning of 2005 Hughie Thomasson left the band to pursue other musical opportunites. On February 5, 2005 Lynyrd Skynyrd did a Super Bowl party back in Jacksonville with special guests 3 Doors Down, Jo Dee Messina, Charlie Daniels and Ronnie and Johnny Van Zant's brother Donnie Van Zant of .38 Special. On February 13 of that year Lynyrd Skynyrd did a tribute to Southern Rock on the Grammy Awards with Gretchen Wilson, Tim McGraw and Keith Urban. On May 10, 2005 Johnny and Donnie Van Zant released a country album called Get Right With The Man which featured the hit single "Help Somebody". In the summer of 2005, lead singer Johnny Van Zant had to have surgery on his vocal cord to have a polyp removed. He was told not to sing for three months. On September 10, 2005 Lynyrd Skynyrd performed without Johnny Van Zant at the Music Relief Concert for the victims of Hurricane Katrina, with Kid Rock standing in for Johnny. In December of 2005, Johnny Van Zant returned to sing for Lynyrd Skynyrd.The band performed live at Freedom Hall in Louisville, Kentucky as a part of their 2007 tour. The concert was recorded in high definition for HDNet and premiered on December 1, 2007.On September 9, 2007, former Skynyrd guitarist Hughie Thomasson died of a heart attack at his home in Florida.On November 2, 2007, the band performed at Gator Growl, the world's largest student-run pep rally, in Ben Hill Griffin Stadium - also known as "The Swamp." The event's 50,000 person attendance marked the largest crowd that Lynyrd Skynyrd had ever played in front of in the United States; Until Bama Jam in Alabama where more than 111,000 people were in attendance.Kirkland, Kay. 2008-06-08. &quot;111,000 jam at Bama Jam with Lynryd Skynyrd, Hank Jr.&quot;, Southeast Sun. Retrieved on 2008-07-07.It was announced on Lynyrd Skynyrd's official website that they are in the process of recording a new album. It is confirmed to have a recording of pre-crash Skynyrd lineup that was previously unreleased. It is expected to be released by early 2009.Tours1973 Tour (part of The Who's Quadrophenia Tour)The Torture TourBullets America '76 TourOne More From The Road TourTour of The Survivors 1977 (played five dates; rest of tour cancelled due to the plane crash)1987-88 Reunion/Tribute Tour1997 TourEdge Of Forever TourEuropean Tour 2000North American Tour 2001Vicious Cycle TourGimme 3 Days/Double Trouble Tour 20052007 TourRowdy Fryns Tour 20082008 TourRecognitionHonorsIn 2004, Rolling Stone Magazine ranked the group #95 on their list of the 100 Greatest Artists of All Time.100 Greatest Artists of All Time&lt;/ref&gt;Rock and Roll Hall of FameOn November 28, 2005, the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame announced that Lynyrd Skynyrd would be inducted alongside Black Sabbath, Blondie, Miles Davis, and the Sex Pistols. They were inducted in the Waldorf Astoria Hotel in Manhattan on March 13, 2006. Lynyrd Skynyrd had been nominated 7 times.On March 13, 2006, Lynyrd Skynyrd was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame at the 21st annual induction ceremony. The inductees included Ronnie Van Zant, Allen Collins, Gary Rossington, Ed King, Steve Gaines, Billy Powell, Leon Wilkeson, Bob Burns, and Artimus Pyle (no post-crash members of the band were inducted, nor were any of the Honkettes). The current version of Skynyrd, augmented by King, Pyle, Burns and former Honkettes JoJo Billingsley and Leslie Hawkins, performed "Sweet Home Alabama" and "Free Bird" at the ceremony, which was also attended by Judy Van Zant Jenness and Ronnie's two daughters, Teresa Gaines Rapp and her daughter Corinna, Allen Collins' daughters, and Leon Wilkeson's mother.TributesIn 1994, various country music artists united to record a Skynyrd tribute album titled Skynyrd Frynds.Ronnie Van Zant's widow, Judy Van Zant Jenness, operates a Lynyrd Skynyrd tribute website for the educational purpose of sharing the original Lynyrd Skynyrd band's history,Lynyrd Skynyrd History Official Website&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; as well as Freebird Live,Freebird Live - Premier Live Concert Venue - Jacksonville Beach, FL - Home Page&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; a live music venue in Jacksonville Beach, Florida.Kid Rock would cover Free Bird in concert with either an image on the confederate flag or a picture of Ronnie Van Zant showing behind him. Van Zant was also featured in a tribute video on Kid Rock's 2006 tour to the song Drift Away which included deceased musical icons. Kid Rock's 2008 hit song, "All Summer Long", samples both Sweet Home Alabama and Warren Zevon's Werewolves of London.When Skynyrd plays "Travellin' Man", a screen drops behind the band during the second verse and you see Ronnie singing it.Lynyrd Skynyrd was mentioned in the blockbuster hit Talladega Nights: The Ballad of Ricky Bobby where John C. Reilly says, "I like to think of Jesus like with giant eagles wings, and singin' lead vocals for Lynyrd Skynyrd with like an angel band and I'm in the front row and I'm hammered drunk!"The Drive By Truckers dedicated their album Southern Rock Opera to Lynyrd Skynyrd.http://www.drivebytruckers.com/writeup_sro.html&lt;/ref&gt;DiscographyStudio albumsYearTitleCertificationsUS Certifications1973(pronounced 'lĕh-'nérd 'skin-'nérd)2x platinum (USA)1974Second Helping2x platinum (USA)1975Nuthin' FancyPlatinum (USA)1976Gimme Back My BulletsGold (USA)1977Street Survivors2x platinum (USA)1991Lynyrd Skynyrd 1991—1993The Last Rebel—1997Twenty]]''—1999Edge of Forever—2000Christmas Time Again—2003Vicious Cycle]]''—" &mdash; " denotes albums that weren't certified.ReferencesWorks citedBrant, Marley. Freebirds: The Lynyrd Skynyrd Story. Billboard Books; New York, New York; 2002. ISBN 0-8230-8321-7.Odom, Gene with Frank Dorman. Lynyrd Skynyrd: Remembering the Free Birds of Southern Rock. Broadway Books; New York; 2002 ISBN 0-7679-1026-5External linksOfficial Lynyrd Skynyrd websiteLynyrd Skynyrd at MySpaceOfficial Lynyrd Skynyrd History siteThe Official Lynyrd Skynyrd Plane Crash Web SiteLynyrd Skynyrd - Verboo ArticleLynyrd Skynyrd and Neil Young: Friends or Foes?Wall Street Journal: Rock's Oldest Joke: Yelling &quot;Free Bird!&quot; In a Crowded TheaterNTSB brief of crashRonnie Van Zant &quot;A Big Man&quot;'Boston Phoenix article naming Lynyrd Skynyrd the All-Time Best Band from Florida  Category:1970s music groups Category:American rock music groups Category:Jacksonville, Florida musical groups Category:Musical groups with siblings Category:Rock and Roll Hall of Fame inductees‎ Category:Southern rock groupsbg:Ленърд Скинърд cs:Lynyrd Skynyrd da:Lynyrd Skynyrd de:Lynyrd Skynyrd es:Lynyrd Skynyrd fr:Lynyrd Skynyrd gl:Lynyrd Skynyrd id:Lynyrd Skynyrd it:Lynyrd Skynyrd he:לינרד סקינרד lt:Lynyrd Skynyrd hu:Lynyrd Skynyrd nl:Lynyrd Skynyrd ja:レーナード・スキナード no:Lynyrd Skynyrd pl:Lynyrd Skynyrd pt:Lynyrd Skynyrd ru:Lynyrd Skynyrd simple:Lynyrd Skynyrd sk:Lynyrd Skynyrd fi:Lynyrd Skynyrd sv:Lynyrd Skynyrd tr:Lynyrd Skynyrd uk:Lynyrd Skynyrd