  I'm Not There is a 2007 biographical film directed by Todd Haynes and is inspired by the life of iconic singer-songwriter Bob Dylan. It depicts six distinct stages of Dylan's life and public persona portrayed by an ensemble cast of actors: Marcus Carl Franklin, Ben Whishaw, Heath Ledger, Christian Bale, Richard Gere, and Cate Blanchett, who play characters based on Dylan but with different names.The film tells its story using non-traditional techniques, similar to the poetic narrative style of Dylan's songwriting. It takes its name from the 1967 Dylan outtake "I'm Not There", a song never officially released until its appearance on the film's official soundtrack album. Critically acclaimed, I'm Not There made many top ten film lists for 2007, topping the lists for The Village Voice, Entertainment Weekly, Salon and The Boston Globe.Complete SynopsisThe film opens with Bob Dylan walking out on a stage at his concert to perform, then it cuts to him riding his motorcycle just before he crashes, just as he did in 1966, and ends up having an autopsy performed on him.Marcus Carl Franklin, a young African American actor, plays Woody Guthrie, an 11-year old version of Dylan who names himself after his idol. Woody carries around a guitar labeled "This Machine Kills Fascists" as did the real Woody Guthrie. Woody is seen as a young boy who travels the country in pursuit of his dream to become a singer. He is once seen in a circus trying to perform but is made fun of and kicked out for unknown reasons. Woody later meets and befriends an African American family where he stays at their home to be cared for, he also sings "Tombstone Blues" with some of the elderly men. Woody later has dinner with the family where he feels insulted by a woman who argues about him being a voice to the people and about what goes on in the world; as the woman tells Woody, "Live your own time child, sing about your own time". Later that night Woody leaves the home and a note thanking the family for their hospitality and catches a ride on a train. Later that night he falls asleep and is awakened by thieves who are looking for money and attempt to rob Woody, but he gets away by jumping off the train and into a river. A couple later finds him unconscious and take him to a hospital, with a little water in his lungs but he survives. The couple take him into their home to temporarily care for him. They later get a call from a juvenile correction center in Minnesota which Woody had escaped from. Woody then leaves the couple's home and takes a train ride to New Jersey to visit his idol, the real Woody Guthrie who is slowly dying in a hospital. Woody is seen leaving him flowers and crying at Guthrie's bedside, and last seen playing the song Blind Willie McTell on his guitar for Guthrie.Ben Whishaw plays a young rebel version of Dylan who calls himself after the poet Arthur Rimbaud. Arthur is mostly seen in an interrogation room where he tells people stories of his life; he is somewhat of a narrator of all six stages of Dylan's life throughout the film.Christian Bale plays Jack Rollins, a version of Dylan that focus around Dylan's folk era in the early 60's. This story is framed as a documentary and is told by people who knew him, especially a fictional character named Alice who is based on Joan Baez. He is also praised by many folk fans who refer to his songs as anthems and protest songs, whereas Jack himself refers to them as finger-point songs. Jack Rollins later accepts the "Tom Paine Award" at a civil rights meeting, shortly after the JFK assassination, where a drunken Rollins insults the people in attendance and claims that he saw something in JFK's alleged assassin Lee Harvey Oswald which he also saw in himself; then the shocked people begin to boo Rollins out of the room. This marked the end of Dylan's protest era. Christian Bale plays another version of Dylan, Pastor John, the Born Again Christian. This takes place in the same story as Jack Rollins, 11 years after the incident at the civil rights meeting. Rollins went to California with his girlfriend to a church for Bible studies and is later reborn and becomes a preacher. Pastor John is last seen giving testimonies to the fellow church members (as Dylan did in his concerts in the late 70's when he became a born again Christian), and sings his gospel song "Pressing On".Heath Ledger plays Robbie Clark, a fictional actor who plays in a movie about Jack Rollins (played by Christian Bale) called "Grain of Sand" (a reference to Dylan's 1981 haunting gospel song "Every Grain of Sand"). The Robbie Clark persona focuses on Dylan's personal life and his failing marriage with his wife Claire (a fictional character based on Dylan's ex-wife Sara Dylan). Robbie tells his life story from the first time he met Claire in a Greenwich Village diner where his fascination with her is her French heritage. The relationship between the two becomes serious as they are seen making love for the first time in their apartment, and going for bike rides, as Dylan was a lover of bicycles. Robbie and Claire are later seen at the premiere of "Grain of Sand" which was disappointing to Claire and the audience. One night Robbie's marriage begins to go downhill as he has a party with his friends at his home and his wife Claire catches him with his hand between another woman's thighs. The relationship continues to deteriorate as Claire notices Robbie's attitude toward women, which she perceives to be sexist, due to him saying "guys and chicks are different" and "chicks could never be poets". Robbie leaves the family for a while to film a new action-thriller movie of his. During his absence Claire attempts to get a hold of Robbie on the phone but doesn't answer as he is seen coming out of the shower and seeing another woman. Claire later files for divorce from Robbie as he returns home to bring Claire's family pictures from his house. Robbie and Claire are later seen in court when they gain 50/50 custody of their children. Robbie is last seen visiting his kids and taking them on a boat trip.Cate Blanchett portrays Jude Quinn, a version of Dylan who was at the height of his fame in the 60's, when his original fan base was rejecting him as a sell-out. Jude is first seen after the folk era at a concert in a New England town performing in front of folk fans as he sings "Maggie's Farm". Jude is heavily booed by outraged fans as an unnamed Pete Seeger lookalike attempts to cut the stage power with an axe but is stopped by security guards, in reference to Seeger's claim at the time of "If I'd had an axe, I'd have cut the power". A number of folk fans are seen expressing their thoughts on Jude's new turn as a rock star from a protest singer. Jude is later seen at a press conference where he is asked questions that Dylan was asked in his famous interviews from the 60's such as how many folk singers are there and if he is trying to change the world. Later in Jude's apartment in London, England, Jude is confronted by a food service man who threatens Jude with a knife because of his departure from protesting. The man is then knocked out by Jude's lover with a bottle and is carried out of the room. Jude is later seen apparently using drugs with The Beatles as reporters attempt to interview him and is then confronted by Keenan Jones (a fictional character referenced from the song "Ballad of a Thin Man", played by Bruce Greenwood). Jude hallucinates his love interest Coco Rivington (a fictional character based on Edie Sedgwick) after their apparent departure from each other. Coco is now seeing another man who is a friend of Jude's. Jude is then taken in a car by his friends and Keenan Jones as his condition from drugs begins to have an effect on him. The group then meets Allen Ginsberg, a poet, whose thoughts on Jude selling out his original fans, was Jude selling out to god, then Ginsberg promises Jude salvation from the pressures of his lives. Keenan Jones later questions Jude if he cares about people, and what he sings every night, to which Jude replies, "How can I answer that if you've got the nerve to ask me?", (similar to Dylan's Time Magazine Interview in 1965), Jude then leaves the car in disgust and goes elsewhere. In a nod towards "Ballad of a Thin Man", the song plays as Keenan Jones hallucinates other men that are identical to himself such as a naked Keenan Jones, a reference to the line "You see somebody naked and you say who is that man". Mr. Jones later gets a year book from Jude Quinn's high school years and his pictures looks somewhat similar to the persona of Jack Rollins, implying that all the personas are the same character, Bob Dylan. Jude is next seen in another concert singing "Ballad of a Thin Man", where a famous moment in Dylan's life occurs when one of the outraged fans shouts "Judas!", Jude replies "I don't believe you". As the fans run upon the stage in an apparent attempt to attack Jude, he narrowly escapes with his band. Jude is back in his apartment where he sees Keenan Jones on television and reveals the true identity of Jude Quinn, "Aaron Jacob Edlesteen". A picture of Dylan's real parents are also shown on the television. Jude later has a party where he invites his friends (including Brian Jones, the Rolling Stones Guitarist, who he introduces as "Brian Jones from that groovy covers band"), band and Coco Rivington. Jude is seen with his buddies using drugs and getting drunk as Jude insults Coco in front of her lover stating "She has the sweetest little pussy", Coco, humiliated, runs downstairs in embarrassment. As Jude's condition from drug usage worsens he then vomits in his friends', Sonny Dover's lap (Coco's lover). Jude's friends carry outside into his car and drives him to a hospital. Jude and Allen Ginsberg are later seen at the foot of a crucifix, "talking to Christ". This indicates the Dylan characters' discovery of Christianity, as did Dylan's persona of Jack Rollins/Pastor John. As with the real Dylan, Jude is seen passed out on the floor with his friends staring down at him, Dylan was known for passing out at parties. Allen Ginsberg states, "He's been in so many psyches", which this indicates that he's moved on to another life. The story then cuts back to the motorcycle wreck showing Jude laid out violently on the ground. Jude is last seen in his car addressing directly to the viewer, "Everyone knows I'm not a folk singer".Richard Gere portrays Billy the Kid, a version of the elderly Dylan with the other stories being in the past of this story. This story focuses on Dylan's country life of the Woodstock era and his later years. Billy is first seen waking up to the barking of his dog "Henry", he takes his dog outside and ties his leash to a fence but the dog manages to run away. Billy is then forced to look for her in the woods but does not catch her. Billy then has flashbacks of his past life of the Robbie Clark persona, when his marriage failed. Billy later meets up with his friend Homer, a reference to Dylan's song from "The Basement Tapes", "Open the Door, Homer". Homer is seen selling some of his old belongings as Billy asks if Homer had seen his dog, which he had not seen. Homer tells Billy of Old Man Pat Garrett's destruction of Riddle County, and the suicides of the depressed people as well as murders, amongst them was a young girl named Ms. Henry (not to be confused with Billy's dog). Billy then goes to Riddle County to pay his respects to Ms. Henry and Mr. Montgomery for their services. As the townspeople are celebrating Halloween the funeral services are being held outdoors as a band sings Dylan's haunting Basement Tapes song "Going to Acapulco" (performed by Jim James of My Morning Jacket along with the band Calexico). After the services Pat Garrett (played by Bruce Greenwood) arrives and confronts the townspeople. Billy puts on a Halloween mask to disguise himself and tells Garrett to stay clear of Riddle County. Garrett asks what his names is, Billy replies "William"; Garrett then asks him to show him his face, Billy then takes off his mask and reveals himself, which Garrett recognizes him. This indicates that Garrett is a reincarnation of Keenan Jones. Garrett then orders the authorities to arrest Billy. Billy is then taken to the county jail. Billy later escapes from jail with the help of Homer and runs to the running trains as Billy catches a ride. Homer stays behind gives his farewell to Billy. Billy then sees his dog Henry one last time as he is riding on the train, he calls for her but doesn't catch up with the train in time, Billy then says "Goodbye my Lady". Billy later finds a guitar that reads "This Machine kills Fascists", the same guitar he had as Woody Guthrie. Billy then sits in the train and plays the guitar. Billy's final words are "People are always talking about freedom, and how to live a certain way. Course the more you live a certain way the less it feels like freedom. Me? I can change during the course of a day. When I wake I'm one person, when I go to sleep I know for certain I'm somebody else. I don't know who I am most of the time. It's like you got yesterday, today and tomorrow all in the same room. There's no telling what's going to happen". The train then rides off. It is suggested that Dylan as Billy is taking the train to the "Never Ending Tour", where he still resides today.The film ends with a clip of Bob Dylan playing his harmonica from the documentary Eat the Document then the film slowly fades into the credits.CastChristian Bale as Jack Rollins and Pastor John, two versions of DylanCate Blanchett as Jude Quinn, a version of DylanMarcus Carl Franklin as "Woody Guthrie", a version of the young DylanRichard Gere as "Billy the Kid", a version of DylanHeath Ledger as Robbie Clark, an actor playing Jack Rollins whose life has similarities with Dylan'sBen Whishaw as "Arthur Rimbaud", a version of DylanCharlotte Gainsbourg as Claire, wife of Robbie Clark, a character based on Dylan's first wife Sara DylanDavid Cross as Allen Ginsberg, the poetEugene Brotto as Peter Orlovsky, Ginsberg's loverBruce Greenwood as Keenan Jones, a fictional reporter who interrogates Jude Quinn, and as Pat Garrett, nemesis of Billy the KidJulianne Moore as Alice Fabian, a version of Joan BaezMichelle Williams as Coco Rivington, a version of Edie SedgwickKim Gordon as Carla HendricksAlison Folland as GraceMark Camacho as Norman, a version of Dylan's manager Albert GrossmanBenz Antoine as Bobby Seale, the Black Panther leader, and as Rabbit BrownCraig Thomas as Huey Newton, the Black Panther leaderRichie Havens as Old Man ArvinKim Roberts as Mrs. ArvinTyrone Bensin as Mr. ArvinYolonda Ross as AngelaPeter Friedman as Barker/Morris BernsteinJoe Cobden as SonnyKristen Hager as MonaFanny La Croix as Actress playing Alice FabianDennis St John as Captain Henry/The AdmiralKris Kristofferson as The NarratorConceptIn a comment on why six actors were employed to portray different facets of Dylan's personality, Haynes wrote: A seventh character, a Charlie Chaplin-like incarnation of Dylan, was present in the script but was dropped before filming began.Soundtrack The film features numerous Dylan songs. Most are background music, but a few songs are woven into the action (e.g. "Goin' to Acapulco") or merely illustrate it (e.g. "I Want You"). "Ballad of a Thin Man" even provides the script for a brief sequence. Fact and fiction are blurred as original recordings are mixed with versions performed by various artists.A notable example of a non-Dylan song is the use of The Monkees' "(I'm Not Your) Steppin' Stone" during a party scene.Production and exhibitionThe production began filming in late July 2006 in Montreal, Quebec, Canada.The film premiered at the 34th Telluride Film Festival on August 31, 2007. It opened in theaters in Italy and played the Toronto International Film Festival in September 2007. It opened in limited release in the United States and Canada in November, and was released in Australia on Boxing Day 2007. It was rated R by the Motion Picture Association of America for language, some sexuality, nudity and drug use.Critical receptionI'm Not There received generally positive reviews from critics. The review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes reported that 78% of critics gave the film positive reviews, based on 141 reviews. Metacritic reported the film had an average score of 73 out of 100, based on 35 reviews.Writing in The Chronicle of Higher Education, critic Anthony DeCurtis said that casting six different actors, including a woman and an African-American child, to play Dylan was "a preposterous idea, the sort of self-consciously 'audacious'—or reassuringly multi-culti—gambit that, for instance, doomed the Broadway musical based on the life and music of John Lennon. Yet in I'm Not There, the strategy works brilliantly." He especially praised Blanchett:"Her performance is a wonder, and not simply because, as Jude Quinn, she inhabits the twitchy, amphetamine-fired Dylan of 1965-66 with unnerving accuracy. Casting a woman in this role reveals a dimension to the acerbic Dylan of this era that has rarely been noted. Even as she perfectly mimics every jitter, sneer, and caustic put-down, Blanchett's translucent skin, delicate fingers, slight build, and pleading eyes all suggest the previously invisible vulnerability and fear that fueled Dylan's lacerating anger. It's hard to imagine that any male actor, or any less-gifted female actor for that matter, could have lent such rich texture to the role."&lt;/ref&gt;Numerous other reviewers have raved about Blanchett's performance: Newsweek magazine called the performance "so convincing and intense that you shrink back in your seat when she fixes you with her gaze."David Gates,&quot;The Roles They Are A-Changin’: In Todd Haynes's film, one Dylan's not enough&quot; from Newsweek, November 26, 2007. The Charlotte Observer called Blanchett "miraculously close to the 1966 Dylan."Lawrence Toppman, &quot;Everybody's 'There' except Bob D.&quot; from The Charlotte Observer, November 23, 2007. The film won the Grand Jury Prize and Best Actress honors for Blanchett at the 64th Venice Film Festival. Blanchett also won the Golden Globe Award for her performance, in addition to several critics awards. She was nominated for a Screen Actors Guild Award and an Academy Award.Ed Siegel's piece in the Boston Globe, "A noble failure in grasping Dylan," finds Haynes' film worthy to be considered part of "the wealth of high-quality material that Dylan has allowed to emerge in recent years." His article is equally focused on Dylan, whose ambiguity has inspired a variety of interpretations, compelling Siegel to suggest his own interpretation: "I'm All Here."Top ten listsThe film appeared on many critics' top ten lists of the best films of 2007. 1st - J. Hoberman, The Village Voice1st - Owen Gleiberman, Entertainment Weekly1st - Stephanie Zacharek, Salon1st - Ty Burr, The Boston Globe1st - Philip Martin, Arkansas Democrat-Gazette3rd - Lisa Schwarzbaum, Entertainment Weekly3rd - Marc Mohan, The Oregonian4th - A.O. Scott, The New York Times4th - Nathan Lee, The Village Voice4th - Shawn Levy, The Oregonian5th - Steven Rea, The Philadelphia Inquirer5th - Best Musical, Rotten Tomatoes Best musical Im not there6th - Kevin Crust, Los Angeles Times7th - Marjorie Baumgarten, The Austin Chronicle9th - Glenn Kenny, Premiere9th - Peter Travers, Rolling StoneTravers, Peter, (December 19, 2007) &quot;Peter Travers' Best and Worst Movies of 2007&quot; Rolling Stone. Retrieved 2007-12-2010th - Ann Hornaday, The Washington Post10th - Desson Thomson, The Washington Post10th - Keith Phipps, The A.V. Club10th - Tasha Robinson, The A.V. ClubAwards and nominationsAcademy Awards:Best Supporting Actress (Cate Blanchett, nominee)Broadcast Film Critics:Best Supporting Actress (Cate Blanchett, nominee)Central Ohio Film Critics:Best Supporting Actress (Cate Blanchett, winner)Chicago Film Critics:Best Supporting Actress (Cate Blanchett, winner)Golden Globe Awards:Best Supporting Actress (Cate Blanchett, winner)Independent Spirit AwardsRobert Altman Award (cast and crew, winner)Best Director (Todd Haynes, nominee)Best Film (nominee)Best Supporting Actor (Marcus Carl Franklin, nominee)Best Supporting Actress (Cate Blanchett, winner)Las Vegas Film Critics:Best Supporting Actress (Cate Blanchett, winner)Los Angeles Film Critics:Best Supporting Actress (Cate Blanchett, runner-up)New York Film Critics Online:Best Supporting Actress (Cate Blanchett, winner)National Society of Film Critics:Best Supporting Actress (Cate Blanchett, winner)Nilsson Awards for FilmBest Supporting Actress (Cate Blanchett, winner)Best CinematographyBest Compiled SoundtrackSatellite Awards:Best Actress - Comedy or Musical (Cate Blanchett, nominee)Screen Actors Guild (SAG):Best Supporting Actress (Cate Blanchett, nominee)[[Southeastern Film Critics Association Awards 2007|SoutheasternFilm Critics]]:Best Supporting Actress (Cate Blanchett, runner-up)Venice Film Festival:CinemAvvenire Award - Best Film (winner)Golden Lion (Todd Haynes, nominee)Special Jury Prize (Todd Haynes, winner)Volpi Cup Best Actress (Cate Blanchett, winner)DVD releaseI'm Not There was released on DVD as a 2-disc special edition on May 6, 2008. The DVD special features include audio commentary from Haynes, deleted scenes, featurettes, a music video, audition tapes for Marcus Carl Franklin and Ben Whishaw, a gag reel, a tribute to Heath Ledger, a series of unreleased trailers featuring the six actors re-enacting the 'Subterranean Homesick Blues' promo film and a Bob Dylan filmography and discography.ReferencesExternal linksHD TrailerOfficial siteTrailer on YouTube[http://media.movies.ign.com/media/873/873844/vids_1.html I'm Not There Trailer] on IGN[http://movies.yahoo.com/shop?d=hv&amp;cf=info&amp;id=1808725287 I'm Not There] on Yahoo! Movies Photo of Cate Blanchett in costume and article about shoot in progress from outside Montrealtoddhaynes.net - I'm Not There information and discussion board[http://www.dvdtalk.com/reviews/read.php?ID=31463 DVD Talk discusses Cate Blanchett's groundbreaking performance in I'm Not There.][http://blog.spout.com/2007/10/04/nyff-todd-haynes-meets-the-press/ Director Todd Haynes talks about I'm Not There at the 2007 New York Film Festival][http://www.alternatetakes.co.uk/?2008,2,201 In-depth essay on I'm Not There] Category:2007 films Category:Films featuring a Best Supporting Actress Golden Globe winning performance Category:biographical films Category:English-language films Category:Films shot in Super 16 Category:Drama films Category:Bob Dylan Category:The Weinstein Company films Category:Paramount filmsda:I'm Not There de:I’m Not There es:I'm Not There fa:من آنجا نیستم fr:I'm Not There hr:Nema me (2007) it:Io non sono qui he:אני לא שם mk:Не сум таму (филм) nl:I'm Not There ja:アイム・ノット・ゼア no:I'm Not There pl:I'm Not There pt:I'm Not There ru:Меня здесь нет (фильм) simple:I'm Not There fi:I'm Not There sv:I'm Not There tr:I'm Not There zh:巴布狄倫的七段航程