 Gym Class Heroes are an American band from Geneva, New York. The group formed when Travis &quot;Schleprok&quot; McCoy met drummer Matt McGinley and decided to make a band. After the addition of guitarist Disashi Lumumba-Kasongo and bassist Eric Roberts, they were signed to Decaydance Records, on which they released the gold-selling album As Cruel as School Children. Since that release, the band has garnered much success, with the single "Cupid's Chokehold" reaching #4 on the Billboard Hot 100, and "Clothes Off!!" peaking at #5 on the UK Singles Chart. Rather than using the conventional tools of hip hop production, Gym Class Heroes use live instrumentation, similar to artists such as: Fluorescent Thiefs, Stetsasonic, The Roots, N.E.R.D., Flobots, and Crown City Rockers. They have collaborated with Fall Out Boy's Patrick Stump on numerous occasions, notably for providing backing vocals on the song "Cupid's Chokehold." Patrick also produced the majorty of their new album "The Quilt", which was released on September 9th, 2008.Band HistoryMC Travis &quot;Schleprok&quot; McCoy and drummer Matt McGinley became friends at their local high school's gym class in Geneva, New York, hence the name of the band. They officially came together in 1997. The original GCH began playing birthday parties, clubs, and festivals which eventually led to numerous larger venues throughout the northeast, including two years on Warped Tour (2003, 2004). During 2004, guitarist Milo Bonacci parted ways with the band and was replaced with current guitarist Disashi Lumumba-Kasongo. In mid 2005, right before their rise to fame, bassist Ryan Geise left the band and was replaced by their friend, bassist Eric Roberts. Gym Class Heroes' first taste at success occurred after the release of "...For the Kids," Lead singer Travis McCoy won MTV's Direct Effect MC Battle and as a prize, appeared in Styles P's video "Daddy Get That Cash".Biography at allmusic.com Aside from "...For the Kids," the group released three other CDs from 1999 to 2004, including "Hed Candy," "Greasy Kids Stuff," and "Papercut Chronicles EP".Decaydance RecordsAfter hearing the song "Taxi Driver", Patrick Stump of Fall Out Boy invited the band to one of his shows. Gym Class Heroes then went on to join Pete Wentz's label, Decaydance Records, an imprint of Fueled by Ramen. Travis later said that Stump's support, coupled with the label's touring ethics and family atmosphere, led the band to signing with Decaydance/Fueled by Ramen.Pete Wentz interviews Travis McCoy and they discuss how they met. Gym Class Heroes appeared on the Warped Tour in the summer of 2005 and 2006. The band completed their leg of a tour with The All-American Rejects on November 29 in Las Vegas. The band recently finished headlining The Daryl Hall For President Tour '07 with the RX Bandits, k-os and P.O.S.. During the tour, the band held a contest for fans to "pimp out" their MySpace pages "gym class" style. The grand prize winner won an Xbox 360.They opened for Gwen Stefani on her The Sweet Escape Tour in Australia and New Zealand during July and August 2007.http://www.gwenstefani.com/news/?nid=7482 Gwenstefani.com After wrapping up the Verizon Wireless Campus Tour with The Pack, Gym Class Heroes were part of the Young Wild Things Tour with Fall Out Boy, Plain White T's, and Cute Is What We Aim For in October, 2007.The band recently collaborated with R&B singer Kelly Rowland on a song titled "Daylight". The video was shot by Jeremy Rall.The song "It's OK, But Just This Once" was briefly featured on HBO's hit series Entourage in Episode 19 of Season 3- "The Prince's Bride".The band has played for the entire 2008 Vans Warped Tour. Travis also made a guest appearance on Bring Me The Horizon's stage chanting with Oli Sykes in Diamonds Arent ForeverThe bands music is also in the games Tiger Woods PGA Tour 2008 and Madden NFL 09The band commented on how they really like English band Arctic Monkeys when they performed Arctic Monkeys' song Leave Before The Lights Come On for Radio 1's live lounge. They heard about the band when on tour in England. They saw the video to Leave Before The Lights Come On and loved it.Travis McCoy was recently arrested for assault. During the St. Louis, MO show on the Warped Tour '08 an audience member called McCoy an "ignorant nigger". After inviting the audience member on stage and subsequently offering him a hand, the audience member hit Travis in his knee (previously injured in a fall). McCoy then went on to hit the audience member in the head with his microphone. He was then arrested and charged with third-degree assault, but was released on $500 bail.The QuiltDuring 2008, the band began work on the follow-up album to As Cruel As School Children. The record, entitled The Quilt, was produced by Cool &amp; Dre and Patrick Stump, and also features tracks with The-Dream, Busta Rhymes & Estelle. To promote it, the band released the Patches From the Quilt EP with three songs off the album. The album was finally released on September 9th, 2008. On September 16th the band played a four song set in Manchester ZavviDiscography2001: ...For the Kids2004: The Papercut EP2004: The Papercut Chronicles2006: As Cruel as School Children2008: Patches from the Quilt EP2008: The QuiltAwards and nominationsYearAwardCategoryResult2007MTV Video Music AwardsBest GroupNominatedMTV Video Music AwardsBest New ArtistWonMTV European Music AwardsUltimate UrbanNominatedReferencesExternal linksOfficial Web siteThe Varsity Club- The Official Fan Club for Gym Class HeroesBlender InterviewClash Magazine InterviewCategory:1990s music groups Category:2000s music groups Category:American hip hop groups Category:Crush Management artists Category:Decaydance Records artists Category:Fueled by Ramen artistsde:Gym Class Heroes el:Gym Class Heroes es:Gym Class Heroes fr:Gym Class Heroes it:Gym Class Heroes nl:Gym Class Heroes uz:Gym Class Heroes pl:Gym Class Heroes pt:Gym Class Heroes ru:Gym Class Heroes fi:Gym Class Heroes sv:Gym Class Heroes th:จิม คลาส ฮีโรส์ tr:Gym Class Heroes