The African Forest Elephant (Loxodonta cyclotis) was until recently considered a subspecies of the African Bush Elephant (Loxodonta africana); however, DNA testing has now shown that there possibly are three extant elephant species: the two African types, typically considered to be different populations of a single species, the African Elephant, and the South Asian species known as the Indian or Asian Elephant. Not all authorities, notably the IUCN African Elephant Specialist Group, consider the presently available evidence sufficient for splitting the African Elephant into two species. The North African Elephant - the war elephants of Hannibal - was possibly a now-extinct fourth species or a subspecies of the African Forest Elephant (Loxodonta (cyclotis) pharaoensis) though it is more often allied with the African Bush Elephant; in any case, this population disappeared around the 1st or 2nd century CE. The disputed Pygmy Elephants of the Congo basin, often assumed to be a separate species (Loxodonta pumilio) by cryptozoologists, are probably Forest Elephants whose diminutive size and/or early maturity is due to environmental conditions (Debruyne et al. 2003).  Differences include the African Forest Elephant's long, narrow mandible (the African Bush Elephant's is short and wide), its rounded ears (an African Bush Elephant's ears are more pointed), straighter and downward tusks, considerably smaller size, and number of toenails. The male African Forest Elephant rarely exceed 2.5 metres (8 ft) in height, while the African Bush Elephant is usually over 3 meters (just under 10 feet) and sometimes almost 4 meters (13 ft) tall. With regard to the number of toenails: the African Bush Elephant normally has 4 toenails on the frontfoot and 3 on the hindfoot, the African Forest Elephant normally has 5 toenails on the frontfoot and 4 on the hindfoot (like the Asian elephant), but hybrids between the two species occur.Late in the 20th century, conservation workers established a DNA identification system to trace the origin of poached ivory. It had long been known that the ivory of the African Forest Elephant was particularly hard, with a pinkish tinge, and straight (whereas that of the African Bush Elephant is curved). The DNA tests, however, indicated that the two populations were much more different compared with previously appreciated&mdash;indeed, in its genetic makeup, the African Forest Elephant is almost two-thirds as distinct from the African Bush Elephant as the Asian Elephant is.ReferencesDebruyne, R., Holt, A. van, Barriel, V. & Tassy, P. 2003. Status of the so-called African pygmy elephant (Loxodonta pumilio (NOACK 1906)): phylogeny of cytochrome b and mitochondrial control region sequences. Comptes Rendus de Biologie 326(7):687-697. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/entrez/query.fcgi?cmd=Retrieve&amp;db=PubMed&amp;list_uids=14556388&amp;dopt=AbstractIUCN African Elephant Specialist Group (AfESG): Statement on the Taxonomy of extant Loxodonta (February, 2006).External links ARKive - [http://www.arkive.org/species/GES/mammals/Loxodonta_cyclotis/ images and movies of the forest elephant (Loxodonta cyclotis)]PBS Nature: Tracking Forest ElephantsForest Elephant ProgramElephant Information Repository - An in-depth resource on elephantsCategory:Elephants Category:Megafauna of Africa Category:Animals described in 1900bg:Африкански горски слон ca:Elefant africà de bosc cs:Slon pralesní da:Afrikansk skovelefant de:Waldelefant es:Loxodonta cyclotis fr:Éléphant de forêt d'Afrique ko:둥근귀코끼리 hr:Šumski slon it:Loxodonta cyclotis he:פיל יער אפריקני lt:Afrikinis miškinis dramblys hu:Erdei elefánt nl:Bosolifant ja:マルミミゾウ no:Afrikansk skogselefant pl:Słoń afrykański leśny ru:Лесной африканский слон sk:Slon pralesný sl:Afriški gozdni slon fi:Metsänorsu sv:Skogselefant zh-yue:圓耳象