 | Location = Michoacán, Mexico | Prominence =  | Type = Cinder cone | Volcanic_Arc/Belt=Trans-Mexican Volcanic Belt | Age = 1943-present | Last eruption=1952 | Coordinates =  | First ascent = Unknown | Easiest route = Hike  Parícutin (or Volcán de Parícutin, also accented Paricutín by locals, to more closely match the pronunciation of the native Purepecha name Parhicutini, or spelled unaccented as Paricutin) is a cinder cone volcano in the Mexican state of Michoacán, close to a lava-covered village of the same name. It appears on many versions of the Seven Natural Wonders of the World. Paricutín is part the Michoacán-Guanajuato Volcanic Field, which covers much of west central Mexico.The volcano began as a fissure in a cornfield owned by P'urhépecha farmer Dionisio Pulido on February 20, 1943. Pulido, his wife, and their son all witnessed the initial eruption of ash and stones first-hand as they plowed the field. Much of the volcano's growth occurred during its first year, while it was still in the explosive pyroclastic phase. Nearby villages Paricutín (after which the volcano was named) and San Juan Parangaricutiro were both buried in lava and ash; the residents relocated to vacant land nearby.At the end of this phase, after roughly one year, the volcano had grown 336&nbsp;meters tall. For the next eight years the volcano would continue erupting, although this was dominated by relatively quiet eruptions of lava that would scorch the surrounding 25&nbsp;km² of land. The volcano's activity would slowly decline during this period until the last six months of the eruption, during which violent and explosive activity was frequent. In 1952 the eruption ended and Parícutin went quiet, attaining a final height of 424&nbsp;metres above the cornfield from which it was born. The volcano has been quiet since. Like most cinder cones, Parícutin is a monogenetic volcano, which means that it will never erupt again.Volcanism is a common part of the Mexican landscape. Parícutin is merely the youngest of more than 1,400 volcanic vents that exist in the Trans-Mexican Volcanic Belt and North America. The volcano is unique in the fact that its formation was witnessed from its very conception. Three people died as a result of lightning strikes caused by the eruptions, but no deaths were attributed to the lava or asphyxiation.Shots of the volcano during its active phase were included in 20th Century Fox's film Captain from Castile, released in 1947.Discrepancy in elevationThere are actually two different elevations attributed to Parícutin. According to some sources, including the Smithsonian Global Volcanism Program and SummitPost.org, the elevation of the volcano is 3,170&nbsp;meters (10,397&nbsp;feet). One web site has this elevation for both Parícutin and nearby El Jorullo, but the actual altitude of El Jorullo is much lower. Other sources, including Peakbagger.com and Bartleby.com as well as many maps along with GPS measurements on Google Earth have the elevation of Paricutín at only 2,774&nbsp;meters (9,101&nbsp;feet). Image:Paricutin 30 612.jpg|Cinder cone in 1943 Image:Paricutin 30 613.jpg|1943 eruption Image:paricutin1.jpg|Parícutin from Las Cabañas Image:paricutin2.jpg|San Juan Parangaricutiro Church  On the afternoon of February 20, 1943, Dionisio Pulido, a farmer in the Mexican state of Michoacán, was readying his fields for spring sowing when the ground nearby opened in a fissure about 150 feet long. "I then felt a thunder," he recalled later, "the trees trembled, and is was then I saw how, in the hole, the ground swelled and raised it self 2 or 21/2 meters high, and a kind of smoke or fine dust–gray, like ashes–began to rise, with a hiss or whistle, loud and continuous; and there was a smell of sulphur. I then became greatly frightened and tried to help unyoke one of the ox teams."Virtually under the farmer's feet, a volcano was being born. Pulido and the handful of other witnesses fled. By the next morning, when he returned, the cone had grown to a height of 30 feet and was "hurling out rocks with great violence." During the day, the come grew another 120 feet. That night, incandescent bombs blew more than 1,000 feet up into the darkness, and a slaglike mass of lava rolled over Pulido's cornfields.The scientific world was almost as stunned as the hapless farmer himself by the volcano's sudden appearance. Around the world, volcanic eruptions are commonplace, but the birth of an entirely new volcano, marked by the arrival at the earth's surface of a distinct vent from the magma chamber, is genuinely rare. In North America, only two new volcanoes have appeared in historic times. One of them was western Mexico's Jorullo, born in 1759 some 50 miles southeast of Dionisio Pulido's property. The second, born about 183 years later in Pulido's field, was named Paricutín for a nearby village that it eventually destroyed.Paricutín and Jorullo both rose in an area known for its volcanoes. Called the Mexican Volcanic Belt, the region stretches about 700 miles from east to west across southern Mexico. Geologists say that eruptive activity deposited a layer of volcanic rock some 6,000 feet thick, creating a high and fertile plateau. During summer months, the heights snag moisture-laden breezes from the Pacific Ocean; rich farmland, in turn, has made this belt the most populous region in Mexico.Though the region already boasted three of the country's four largest cities–Mexico City, Puebla, and Guadalajara–the area around Paricutín, some 200 miles west of the capital, was still a peaceful backwater inhabited by P'urhépecha in the early 1940s. Its gently rolling landscape, in a zone that had experienced almost no volcanic activity during historic times, was one of Mexico's loveliest. Although hundreds of extinct cinder cones rose around the small valleys, the only eruption in human memory had been that of distant Jorullo.The P'urhépecha had no folk legends concerning volcanic eruptions in the area. But when Paricutín came into their lives, they saw events, in retrospect, that foretold the cataclysm. The first event was a sacrilege: the 1941 destruction of a large wooden cross on a hillside. The second one hinted at biblical retribution: a plague of locusts in 1942. When 1943 began, so did the third sign: a series of earthquakes; these were preceded, said one man, by "many noises in the center of the earth."On February 19, the day before the volcano began to erupt, some 300 earthquakes shook the ground. On February 22, with the new cone rising and fiery skyrockets descending, the first of many geologists who would monitor and map Paricutín's behaviour over the next nine years arrived. From then on, Paricutín was under constant observation: It yielded a trove of information, including unique, fleeting glimpses of ephemeral features.New volcanic phenomena and processes were sometimes obliterated almost as soon as they were recorded, especially during Paricutín's first year of violent, explosive growth and change. In that year, the cone topped 1,100 feet, four-fifths of its final height; explosions echoed all over the state of Michoacan; ash snowed on faraway Mexico City; and almost all of the vegetation for miles around the crater was destroyed.During the summer of 1943, probably the volcano's most violent period. Lava rose to about 50 feet below the crater's rim. That fall, a new vent opened explosively at the cone's base, fountaining lava high into the sky. Lava finally destroyed the nearby villages the following year, but most villagers has seen their livelihoods disappear long before that.Over the next years, lava flows continued with little interruption. But in February of 1952, almost exactly nine years after Paricutín was born, the volcano experienced its last major spasm of activity. By then, villages and farms had been relocated with government assistance. The new Bracero Program drew many of the displaced farmers to California for seasonal agricultural work.Source: The Wonders of the World, National Geographic SocietyReferencesParícutin at Volcano WorldParícutin: The Volcano Born in a Mexican Cornfield, Edited by James F Luhr and Tom Simkin, Phoenix AZ: Geoscience Press, 1993. The definitive collection of reports and documentary illustrations of the eruption and its effects up to the date of publication.Peakbagger.com Parícutin: Credits. Retrieved Apr. 16, 2008.Volcano World (El Jorullo). Parícutin: Credits. Retrieved Apr. 17, 2008.External linksThe eruption of Parícutin (1943-1952)Pictures of Paricutin - 2006Parícutin.comCategory:Volcanoes of Mexico Category:Mountains of Mexico Category:Pyroclastic cones Category:Destroyed cities Category:Natural disasters in Mexico Category:Cinder cones Category:1943 natural disastersbg:Парикутин ca:Paricutín cs:Paricutín de:Paricutín dv:ޕަރިކްޓީން އަލިފާން ފަރުބަދަ et:Paricutín es:Paricutín fr:Paricutín hi:पारिकुटीन id:Paricutín lt:Parikutinas jbo:parikutin nl:Paricutín no:Paricutín pap:Paricutin pl:Paricutín pt:Paricutín ru:Парикутин sk:Paricutín sv:Paricutín vi:Parícutin zh:帕里库廷火山