 | birthname = Erik Per Sullivan | birthplace = Worcester, Massachusetts, U.S. | yearsactive = 1998 ─ present | academyawards = | spouse = Erik Per Sullivan (born July 12, 1991) is an American actor, perhaps best known for his role as Dewey, the younger brother to middle child Malcolm, on the FOX series, Malcolm in the Middle.BiographyCareerOne of his many roles includes playing the main character, a child, in the movie Wendigo. Sullivan also played the only child in the movie Unfaithful and played an orphaned child in The Cider House Rules. He was also in the movie Christmas with the Kranks, playing the character of Spike. He played young Joe Dirt in the film of the same name. In the movie Finding Nemo, he voiced Sheldon the Seahorse. He is currently starring as the title role in the independent film Mo.He co-starred in Malcolm in the Middle from 2000-2006. In 2005, he joined co-star Jane Kaczmarek in writing the afterword to a children’s book called Together, which shows the importance of livestock in the world, and was inspired by the mission of the nonprofit charitable organization Heifer International.Toward the end of June 2006, he was seen in a specially made advertisement for the airing of the last episode of Malcolm in the Middle on Sky One in the UK. It was then announced after the airing on July 2 that a special program called Dewey’s Therapy Sessions would be showing on July 9, featuring Sullivan.Personal lifeSullivan was born in Worcester, Massachusetts, the only child of Ann and Fred Sullivan; his mother is from Sweden. He currently lives in Milford, Massachusetts, where his family owns a restaurantFOXNews.com - Jamie Lee Curtis Gets 'Kranky' - Celebrity Gossip | Entertainment News | Arts And Entertainment&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; Sullivan plays piano and alto saxophone and studies taekwondo, in which he has earned a first-degree black belt. He attended Mount Saint Charles Academy in Junior High through ninth grade. He currently attends Philips Exeter Academy.ReferencesExternal links Category:1991 births Category:American child actors Category:American film actors Category:American television actors Category:Living people Category:People from Worcester, Massachusetts Category:People from Milford, Massachusetts Category:Irish-Americans Category:Swedish-Americansde:Erik Per Sullivan es:Erik per Sullivan fr:Erik Per Sullivan it:Erik Per Sullivan nl:Erik Per Sullivan pl:Erik Per Sullivan fi:Erik Per Sullivan sv:Erik Per Sullivan