  on the Wayne County, Ohio courthouse.]] In Greek mythology, Telamon (in Greek, Τελαμών), son of the king Aeacus, of Aegina, and Endeis and brother of Peleus, accompanied Jason as one his Argonauts, and was present at the hunt for the Calydonian Boar. In the Iliad he was the father of Greek heroes Ajax the Great and Teucer the Archer by different mothers. He and Peleus were also close friends with Heracles, assisting him on his expeditions against the Amazons and against Troy (see below).LifeAfter killing their half-brother, Phocus, Telamon and Peleus had to leave Aegina. King Cychreus of Salamis welcomed Telamon and befriended him. Telamon married his daughter Periboea, who gave birth to Ajax. Later, Cychreus gave Telamon his kingdom. In other versions of the myth Cychreus' daughter is named Glauce, and Periboea is Telamon's second wife, and the daughter of Alcathous. Telamon also figures in both versions of Heracles' sacking of Troy, which was ruled by King Laomedon (or Tros in the alternate versions). Before the Trojan War, Poseidon sent a sea monster to attack Troy.In the King Tros version, Heracles (along with Telamon and Oicles) agreed to kill the monster if Tros would give him the horses he received from Zeus as compensation for Zeus' kidnapping Ganymede, Tros' son. Tros agreed; Heracles succeeded and Telamon married Hesione, Tros' daughter, giving birth to Teucer by her. In the King Laomedon version, Laomedon planned on sacrificing his daughter Hesione to Poseidon in the hope of appeasing him. Heracles rescued her at the last minute and killed both the monster and Laomedon and Laomedon's sons, except for Ganymede, who was on Mt. Olympus, and Podarge, who saved his own life by giving Heracles a golden veil Hesione had made. Telamon took Hesione as a war prize and married her, and she gave birth to Teucer by him.The ''Telamon''The Telamon (also Song of Telamon, Telamon Song, Telamon-song) is an ancient Greek song (fl. 5th century BC) only found referred to by name in some ancient Greek playsEspecially Aristophanes, Lysistrata, line 1236-1238. and later scholia or commentaries. It is usually thought to be a warlike songE.g. Anton Powell, Stephen Hodkinson, The Shadow of Sparta, Routledge, 1994, p. 39-40; and most annotated editions of Lysistrata (such as Jeffrey Henderson, Three Plays by Aristophanes, Routledge, 1996, p. 220). about Telamon's son Ajax,According to Eustathius of Thessalonica (commentaries on Iliad, Roman Edition, vol. 2, p. 285), the song took this name from its first line, "Son of Telamon". though some other commentaries thought it to be a mournful song about Telamon himself.According to Erasmus (Adagia, 3, 4, 10: "Canere de Telamone"), the Telamon would have been a plaintive song about the father mourning his son. It began with: "Son of Telamon, warlike Ajax! They say you are the bravest of the Grecians who came to Troy, next to Achilles."English translation of the Telamon quoted from A Select Collection of English Songs, vol. I, 1783, "A Historical Essay on the Origin and Progress of National Song", subpage xOther usesIn architecture, a telamon (plural telamones or telamons) is a sculpted support or column in the form of a man, the male equivalent of a caryatid. Such a sculptural support is better known as an atlas (plural atlantes).The Battle of Telamon, between the forces of the Roman Republic and the Gauls, took place in 224 BC near the Tuscany coast at a place called Telamon, modern Talamone.In Robert Jordan's fictional series The Wheel of Time, Lews Therin Telamon is one of the primary historical figures.In Chris Roberts' game Wing Commander 4: The Price of Freedom, A colony in the Telamon system is the target of a biological weapons attack.Telamon is also a small volleyball team in Salamis Island.SourcesApollodorus. Bibliotheke I, viii, 2 and ix 16; II, vi, 4; III, xii,6-7.Apollonius Rhodius. Argonautica I, 90-94.Ovid. Metamorphoses, VIII, 309.NotesCategory:Argonauts Category:People of the Trojan War Category:Greek mythology Category:Mythological kings Category:Columns and entablaturebr:Telamon bg:Теламон ca:Telamó cs:Telamón de:Telamon el:Τελαμώνας es:Telamón fa:تلامون fr:Télamon gl:Telamón it:Telamone (mitologia) he:טלאמון nl:Telamon ja:テラモーン pl:Telamon (mitologia) pt:Télamon ru:Теламон (мифология) fi:Telamon uk:Теламон