
| format = [[Serial (radio and television)|Serial drama]]
| genre = [[Drama]]
| runtime = approx. 50 min.
| developer = [[James Manos, Jr.]]
| starring = [[Michael C. Hall]]&lt;br&gt;[[Julie Benz]]&lt;br&gt;[[Jennifer Carpenter]]&lt;br&gt;[[C.S. Lee]]&lt;br&gt;[[Lauren Vélez]]&lt;br&gt;[[David Zayas]]&lt;br&gt;[[James Remar]]&lt;br&gt;[[Jimmy Smits]]
| executive_producer = [[Michael C. Hall]]&lt;br&gt;[[Scott Buck]]&lt;br&gt;[[Melissa Rosenberg]]&lt;br&gt;[[Charles H. Eglee]]&lt;br&gt;[[Clyde Phillips]]&lt;br&gt;[[Sara Colleton]]&lt;br&gt;[[John Goldwyn]]
| country = 
| language = English
| theme_music_composer = [[Rolfe Kent]]
| network = [[Showtime]]
| picture_format = [[HDTV]] [[1080i]]
| audio_format = [[Surround sound]]
| first_aired = October 1, 2006
| last_aired = present
| num_seasons = 3 &lt;!--number of seasons aired, do not change until new season airs--&gt;
| num_episodes = 26 &lt;!--number of episodes aired, do not changed until new episodes air--&gt;
| list_episodes = List of Dexter episodes 
| imdb_id = 0773262
| tv_com_id = 62683
| website = http://www.sho.com/site/dexter/home.do  Dexter is an American television drama series based on the novel Darkly Dreaming Dexter by Jeff Lindsay and adapted for television by Emmy Award-winning screenwriter James Manos, Jr., who wrote the pilot episode. Set in Miami, the series centers on Dexter Morgan (Michael C. Hall), a serial killer who works for the Miami Metro Police Department as a blood spatter analyst.The main creative forces behind the series (showrunners) are executive producers Daniel Cerone and Clyde Phillips; Cerone left the show after its second season. The series premiered on the premium cable network Showtime on October 1, 2006. Dexter has received considerable critical acclaim and has won two Emmys in technical categories, and has also generated public controversies concerning its content and promotion. An edited version of the series began airing on CBS on February 17, 2008 to make up for the shortage of new content caused by the 2007-08 Writers Guild of America strike. Canada's CTV simulcasts episodes along with CBS, and is also airing the edited version in order to follow Canadian cable simultaneous substitution rules.CHANNEL CANADA :: Dexter Coming to CTV&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;PlotSeason 1Orphaned at the age of three and harboring a traumatic secret, Dexter (Michael C. Hall, Six Feet Under) was adopted by a Miami police officer named Harry Morgan (James Remar), who recognized Dexter's sociopathic tendencies and taught him to channel his gruesome passion for killing by giving it a constructive direction: killing people who deserve it. Most have slipped through the justice system, due to loopholes and technicalities in the law or were never apprehended.To satisfy his interest in blood and to erase his own crimes, Dexter works as a blood spatter analyst for the Miami Metro Police Department. Although his drive to kill is unflinching (otherwise overcome by a feeling of "emptiness") Dexter is, through extensive instruction from Harry, able to fake normal emotions and keep up his appearance as a socially responsible human being. Flashbacks throughout the series show how Harry instructs Dexter on the art of appearing normal, and he follows Harry's instructions as a sacred "Code of Harry." In accordance with this code, all of Dexter's victims must be killers themselves who have killed multiple times with no remorse, and Dexter must have proof that they are definitely guilty before he takes action.Dexter has a girlfriend, Rita Bennett (Julie Benz), whom he dates in order to appear normal. Rita is psychologically damaged from an abusive ex-husband, a violent felon, and is too distraught to want sex. Dexter is unable to fake emotional closeness, something that his girlfriends discover post sex and is inevitably the reason the relationship ends. Dexter hopes to keep up the facade of normalcy by never engaging in sex with Rita. Dexter does have genuine affection for and feels comfortable with Rita and her two children, Astor and Cody.The first season focuses mostly on "The Ice Truck Killer" &mdash; a serial killer eluding the Miami PD who is communicating with Dexter through his crime scenes. Dexter's adoptive sister Debra (Jennifer Carpenter) begins dating Rudy, who is revealed to the audience to be the Ice Truck Killer. At the end of the season Rudy attempts to kill Debra, but is stopped by Dexter. Rudy reveals that he is Dexter's brother. Dexter has no choice but to kill him in order to save Debra; he makes Rudy's death look like a suicide.Dexter uses his calculated charm to become well-liked by all of his colleagues, with the exception of Sgt. James Doakes (Erik King), who repeatedly calls him a freak and openly accuses him of being up to something, although he is never sure what it is exactly. The tension between the two is an ongoing plot motif.Doakes senses a connection between Dexter and the Ice Truck Killer, but is not sure what it is. He starts tailing Dexter because of his personal suspicions. Rita's ex-husband, set up by Dexter for a felony parole violation, is back in prison proclaiming his innocence, and points Rita to a clue to the truth about Dexter. The season ends with Dexter and his sister entering a crime scene, with Dexter imagining a tickertape parade for himself, complete with confetti and airplane fly-over, and the crowd praising him for his fine work "taking out the garbage" (i.e. killing those who prey on the weak and vulnerable.)The complete first season of Dexter was released in a four-disc DVD package on August 21, 2007 in the US.Season 2Dexter begins the season unable to satisfy his urges for over a month, due to the constant surveillance by Sgt. Doakes. When the opportunity to kill arises, he has problems executing his victims.To further complicate matters, treasure hunters discover Dexter’s underwater dumping ground for his victims. As the police extract body after body from the ocean, the media dubs the killer the "Bay Harbor Butcher", and FBI Special Agent Lundy (played by Keith Carradine) is brought in to catch the "Butcher".A cult following begins to form behind the "Butcher" when it is discovered that his victims were themselves responsible for deaths.IGN.com, &quot;Dexter Gets Ready for Another Killer Season&quot; Dexter even finds that a comic-book character, "The Dark Defender", was created in his honor.Rita’s relationship with Dexter becomes more tense as she and her children are dealing with the death of her ex-husband Paul in a prison fight. Paul's suggestion that Dexter was to blame for his imprisonment eats at Rita's conscience and eventually Rita accuses Dexter of setting up her ex-husband. Dexter admits to setting up Paul, but Rita refuses to believe that Dexter premeditated the crime. She assumes that Dexter is a heroin addict. He acquiesces to "having an addiction", though he characteristically allows her misinterpretation to go without clarification; in return, she vows to stay with him while he goes through the Narcotics Anonymous program. In this way Dexter avoids responsibility for Paul's death (though he set the process in motion) and consequently maintains the rationalization that he only (directly) kills people who are murderers. Doakes pursues Dexter until he spots him at a NA meeting, and his first assumption is likewise that Dexter’s devious behavior is drug-related.Debra continues to struggle with the trauma of her experience with the Ice Truck Killer. For a sense of safety and comfort, she stays with her brother, another new source of stress in Dexter's life.New cast members for this season include Jaime Murray as Lila, a former meth addict, arsonist and artist who becomes Dexter’s sponsor and later on his lover,IGN.com, &quot;Dexter Makes Friends&quot; Keith Carradine as FBI Special Agent Frank Lundy and JoBeth Williams as Rita's mother Gail. The role of Rita's son Cody was re-cast, and in season 2 was played by child actor Preston Bailey.Season 2 premiered on September 30, 2007. On July 17 the first two episodes of the season were leaked on the internet, and on December 4 the last two episodes were also leaked. On November 4th, 2007, the Writer’s Guild of America started a strike, but writer Daniel Cerone stated in the LA Times that Season 2 had already been completed in anticipation of the WGA’s action.Show Tracker - TV News - Los Angeles Times&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Throughout Season 2, the Bay Harbor Butcher (Dexter) is pursued by Special Agent Lundy, while Debra's affection for Lundy and her confidence in her own detective skills both grow. Doakes returns to pursuing his suspicions about Dexter, and ultimately discovers Dexter's collection of glass slides, containing blood sample souvenirs from all of his victims. The possibility of matching the slides hidden in Dexter's air conditioner with the bodies of the Butcher's victims sets up a climactic process in which Doakes confronts Dexter. However, Dexter overpowers him and keeps him locked in a cage, while he sets up Doakes as the Butcher. Lieutenant LaGuerta, Doakes' former partner, is the only one who believes in Doakes' innocence. She finds evidence of Doakes' innocence and takes it to Lundy, but he tells her that the evidence is tainted by her previous failure to report Doakes' telephone call to her to the investigation team. He therefore rejects the file of records, though he believes she may be right.Towards the end of the season, Dexter's relationship with Doakes become slightly ambiguous, as he momentarily escapes from the cage and is saved by Dexter after he is held captive by two drug dealers (thereafter he promptly imprisons him again in the cage). Dexter even seriously considers handing himself in, but after a conversation with Debra, he decides to continue with his original plan of framing Doakes.In the season finale, Lila causes an explosion at the Cabin where Dexter imprisoned Doakes, blowing up both Doakes and the corpse of one of Dexter's victims, thereby saving Dexter from discovery. Lila then meets with Dexter, expecting him to finally accept her love now that she knows his secret. But when she catches him preparing to kill her, she seeks revenge by trying to kill Rita's children and Dexter. Dexter manages to save the children and escape, and then gets his own revenge on her after she has fled to Paris. In the closing scenes, Doakes' memorial service goes largely unattended, with the exception of LaGuerta, Dexter, and Doakes' immediate family. Expressing the logic of Dexter's mental world, the final words in the series are a voice-over of his thoughts on the recent events. We hear that he now considers himself the master of the techniques his father taught him. Dexter believes this combined with the fact that Harry knew himself to be wrong about the code gives Dexter the right to rewrite that code and to live his life the way he wishes. He also states that he now needs those relationships that he originally cultivated as disguises in order to fit into society, even though they make him vulnerable. He considers himself "An idea transcended into life".The complete second season of Dexter was released on August 19, 2008, in USA/Canada, and August 21, 2008, in Australia/New Zealand.Season 3A third season of Dexter was announced following the season two finale, in an ad which confirmed Dexter would return in 2008. Season three premiered September 28, 2008 on Showtime and in Canada on The Movie Network. Jimmy Smits has signed on to the season 3 cast and is listed in the opening credits as "Special Guest Star". He plays Miguel Prado, an assistant district attorney who works with Dexter to solve the case of the murder of Prado's brother. Dexter killed Prado's brother while attempting to stalk a murderous drug dealer named "Freebo"; and soon Prado confides in Dexter and grows to trust him. Miguel Prado, upon following up on a lead as to Freebo's whereabouts, witnesses Dexter with the weapon that kills Freebo (also the same weapon that killed Miguel Prado's brother) but hugs and thanks him because he thinks that Freebo killed his brother. Meanwhile, Rita (Dexter's girlfriend) finds out she is pregnant and Dexter finds it hard to choose when she asks whether she should keep the baby or not. However, in the end of the second episode Rita announces that she will keep the baby.&lt;/ref&gt;U.S. broadcast controversyWhen CBS announced in December 2007 it was considering Dexter for broadcast over the public airwaves, Parents Television Council (PTC), publicly protested the decision. &quot;Parents Television Council Denounces CBS's 'Dexter' Plan&quot;&quot;PTC to CBS: Do Not Air Dexter on Broadcast TV&quot;In preparation for the broadcast premiere of Dexter on CBS, on January 29, 2008 the network posted promotional videos on YouTube. The next day, the PTC for a second time called upon CBS to withdraw plans to broadcast the show. PTC President Timothy F. Winter issued a news release stating "We are formally asking CBS to cancel its plan to air the first season of Dexter on its television network. This show is not suitable for airing on broadcast television; it should remain on a premium subscription cable network. The biggest problem with the series is something that no amount of editing can get around: the series compels viewers to empathize with a serial killer, to root for him to prevail, to hope he doesn’t get discovered." Winter went on to quote CBS President Leslie Moonves' post-Columbine comment: ‘Anyone who thinks the media has nothing to do with violence in society is an idiot.’ Winter called on the public to demand local affiliates preempt Dexter, and warned advertisers the PTC would take action against any that sponsored the show.&quot;Dexter, Decency and DVRs&quot;Following Winter's release, CBS added Parental Discretion advisories to its broadcast (but not the YouTube) promotions. CBS rated Dexter TV-14 for broadcast.&quot;In an Unprecedented Move, a Premium Cable Drama To Air On Network Television&quot; The show premiered on February 17, 2008 with minor edits, primarily for language, and with scenes involving dismemberment of live victims cut away. &quot;Showtime’s Serial Killer Moves to CBS, to a Not Entirely Warm Welcome&quot; Scenes involving sex were also taken out of the broadcasts. The PTC has also objected to CBS broadcasting the final two episodes of the season in a two-hour block starting at 9:00 P.M. (Eastern/Pacific Time Zones), which translates to 8 P.M. at the Mountain and Central Time Zones, a time it is concerned about a high likelihood of children watching the show.TriviaIn Season 1 episode 6, dexter goes by the alias of Patrick Bateman, a serial killer from the book, and movie; American Psycho.CastMichael C. Hall as Dexter MorganJulie Benz as Rita BennettJennifer Carpenter as Debra MorganLauren Vélez as Lt. Maria LaGuertaErik King as Sgt. James DoakesDavid Zayas as Angelo BatistaJames Remar as Harry MorganC. S. Lee as Vince MasukaDifferences from novel The first season of Dexter is based on the novel Darkly Dreaming Dexter by Jeff Lindsay. However, there are numerous differences, ranging from extra subplots to rearrangements and modifications of elements from the source material. The biggest change is the lead-up to and revelation of the identity of the "Ice Truck Killer", called the "Tamiami Butcher" in the novel. In the novel, Dexter is led to believe that he might be the one committing the murders, due to a series of strange dreams that connect him to the murder. The final clue is a blurry photo, taken from surveillance footage, of a man who resembles Dexter at a crime scene. After the "Tamiami Killer" kidnaps Deborah, Dexter finds and confronts him. It is subsequently revealed that the killer is actually Dexter's nearly identical long-lost brother, Brian, who, like Dexter, witnessed their mother's brutal murder. Dexter is followed by Detective LaGuerta, who is slain by Brian. Debra finds out her brother is a killer and Dexter helps Brian to escape. As a trophy, Dexter adds a drop of LaGuerta’s blood to his collection. In the television series, Brian is introduced under the fake name Rudy, a prosthetist who becomes Debra's boyfriend. Dexter hesitantly kills Brian instead of letting him escape, Debra does not discover her brother's secret, and LaGuerta is not present at all in the confrontation. In the novel, Dexter and his brother are nearly identical, whereas the actors playing the two characters are distinct from each other in their looks.The novel is narrated exclusively from Dexter’s point of view and focuses mostly on his pursuit of the "Tamiami Butcher". This helps the reader relate even without understanding the Miami specific lingo and street names, including Tamiami. The series expands on the minor characters roles with subplots not present in the original, such as Angel’s rocky relationship with his ex-wife. Another addition is the inclusion of Rita’s abusive ex-husband Paul. In the show, he becomes a fully-fledged supporting character who professes love for his children, but nevertheless still treats Rita violently. Some of the supporting characters are changed. Detective LaGuerta is named Migdia in the novel and Maria in the show while Doakes' first name is changed from Albert to James. The character of Camilla Figg in the novel is a young lab tech infatuated with Dexter, while in the television series, she is an older woman who once worked with Dexter's father. She is the records supervisor and has a more maternal relationship with Dexter.In the novel Darkly Dreaming Dexter, Dexter references his urge to kill as being controlled by a "Dark Passenger", and when in his killer trances he tends to refer to himself as "we" or "us". In the first season, only one reference is made to the "Passenger", as Dexter stands at the scene of Angel's stabbing by Brian, an event absent in the book. In the second season, the writers explain Dexter's urge to kill as his "Dark Passenger", and make multiple references to it throughout the episode. Much of the second season had little to do with the second novel, Dearly Devoted Dexter, although they both shared a subplot concerning a suspicious Doakes following Dexter, both concluding in Doakes being 'taken care of' by another killer to prevent Dexter from breaking his moral code. In Dearly Devoted, Doakes is tortured and dismembered (his hands, feet and tongue are removed) by Dr. Danco, an ex-military interrogator/torturer, and returns in the third novel albeit in a much different state; he is unable to speak coherently and is fitted with prosthetic limbs. The Showtime series has Doakes being blown up by Lila, Dexter's psychopathic ex-girlfriend.Viral marketing controversyIn preparation for the UK launch of the series, FX (UK) experimented with an SMS-based viral marketing campaign. Unsuspecting mobile phone owners received unsolicited SMS messages identified as being from "Dexter," with no other identification or originating phone number. The SMS messages contain the following text, referring to the phone owner by name:"Hello (name). I'm heading to the UK sooner than you might think. Dexter."Some time later, an email is received directing the user to an online video "news report" about a recent spree of killings. Using on-the-fly video manipulation, the user's name and a personalized message are worked into the report – the former written in blood on a wall by the crime scene, the latter added to a note in an evidence bag carried past the camera.While the marketing campaign had succeeded in raising the profile of the show, it proved unpopular with many mobile owners who saw this as spam advertising aimed at mobile phones. In response to complaints about the SMS element of the campaign, FX issued the following statement:"The text message you received was part of an internet viral campaign for our newest show Dexter. However it was not us who sent you the text but one of your friends. We do not have a database of viewer phone numbers. The text message went along with a piece on the net that you can then send on to other people you know. If you go to www.icetruck.tv you will see the page that one of your friends has filled in to send you that message. Therefore I suggest you have a word with anyone who knows your mobile number and see who sent you this message. For the record we did not make a record of any phone numbers used in this campaign.""Critical receptionThe initial response to Dexter was positive. The website Metacritic calculated a score of 77 from a possible 100 based on 27 reviews, making it the third-best reviewed show of the 2006 fall season. This score includes four 100% scores from the New York Daily News, San Francisco Chronicle, Chicago Sun-Times and People Weekly. Brian Lowry, who had written one of the two poor reviews for the show, recanted his negative review in a year-end column for the trade magazine Variety after watching the full season.Looking forward, some no-no’s for the New Year On the CNET Networks website TV.com, Dexter has an overall rating of 9.4/10.TV.com highest rated showsOn December 14, 2006, Michael C. Hall was nominated for a Golden Globe Award in the category Best Actor in a Television Drama Series for playing Dexter.The show was nominated for an Emmy for Outstanding Drama Series for its second season(Showtimes first ever drama to be nominated for the award), and its star for Outstanding Lead Actor in a Drama Series. It won neither, losing to "Mad Men" and actor Bryan Cranston, respectively. http://www.sho.com/site/announcements/20080717Emmy.doDVD releaseDVD NameRelease DateEp #Additional ContentThe Complete First Seasonurl=http://www.play.com/DVD/DVD/4-/3305130/-/Product.html?searchstring=Dexter+season+1&amp;searchsource=0 |title=Play.com (UK) Dexter: Season 1: DVD |accessdate=2008-02-29 |publisher=play.com12Brotherhood]]''The Complete Second SeasonRegion 1: August 19, 2008Region 2: N/ARegion 4: August 21, 200812Brotherhood]]'' (second season)Via E-Bridge Technology2 episodes from The Tudors (second season) & CalifornicationVideo gameA video game based on Dexter was announced on March 4, 2008, to be developed by Marc Ecko's game development company, which previously developed the controversial urban graffiti game Getting Up. "Dexter is the extremely rare TV show with enough layers of action and tension to translate perfectly into a compelling video game," said Marc Fernandez, Vice President of Marc Ecko Entertainment.More info was released at the San Diego Comic-Con, revealing that the games would be released exclusively on the iPhone and iPod Touch, via iTunes, and that the games would be episodic.Soundtrack The music from the Dexter TV series was released August 28, 2007 on the album Dexter: Music from the Showtime Original Series. It is produced by Showtime, and distributed by Milan Records. The album is also available online on the iTunes store. The iTunes release includes five additional bonus tracks from Seasons 1 and 2.The album contains 25 tracks over 1 hour and 4 minutes. Track 1 is the opening theme by Rolfe Kent. Tracks 2 through 11 are mostly Cuban and Latin music used during the show, with tracks 2, 6 and 9 containing narration by Michael C. Hall. Tracks 12 through 24 were written by Daniel Licht, who composed all of the show's other themes. Bonus track 25 is track 24, "Blood Theme", with Jon Licht singing over. Kent's widely praised opening theme utilises an eclectic selection of European and Asian instruments, including ukulele, piano, bouzouki, trumpets, pizzicato strings, electric piano, saz, and tambour, set to an Afro-Cuban beat. Licht's original themes are based around a mixture of Latin and electronic music, reflecting Dexter's warm and cold elements.Jarry, Jonathan. "Dexter: Soundtrack". Soundtrack.Net, September 27, 2007Blood Theme was also used by Finnish band HIM as an intro song for their recent Venus Doom tour. The song also features on their CD/DVD, Digital Versatile Doom.Soundtrack – Soundtrack.net: Album Information, reviews and more Soundtrack – Showtime: Official page Soundtrack – Milan Records: Official page Soundtrack – Amazon.com:Product page Track listingAwardsWins2006AFI Awards – TV Program of the Year – Official SelectionIGN – Best New ShowIGN – Best Actor – Michael C. HallIGN – Best Villain – The Ice Truck KillerIGN – Best Character – Dexter MorganSatellite Awards – Outstanding Actress in a Supporting Role in a Series – Julie Benz2007Emmy – Outstanding Main Title DesignEmmy – Outstanding Single-Camera Picture Editing for a Drama SeriesIGN - Best StorylineIGN - Best Television ProgramSatellite Awards – Outstanding Actor in a Supporting Role in a Series – David ZayasSatellite Awards – Outstanding Actor in a Series, Drama – Michael C. HallSatellite Awards – Outstanding Television Series, DramaSaturn Awards – Best Actor in a Television Program – Michael C. HallTelevision Critics Association – Individual Achievement in Drama – Michael C. Hall2008Saturn Awards – Best Syndicated/Cable Television SeriesNominations2006Golden Globe – Nomination for Best Performance by an Actor in a Television Series – Drama – Michael C. HallIGN – Best Television ProgramSatellite Awards – Outstanding Actor in a Series, Drama – Michael C. HallSatellite Awards – Outstanding Television Series, Drama2007Emmy – Outstanding Single-Camera Picture Editing, DramaEmmy – Outstanding Original Main Title Theme MusicGolden Globe - Nomination for Best Performance by an Actor in a Television Series – Drama – Michael C. HallSaturn Awards – Best Supporting Actor in a Television Program – James RemarSaturn Awards – Best Supporting Actress in a Television Program – Jennifer CarpenterSaturn Awards – Best Syndicated/Cable Television SeriesSAG – Male Actor in a Drama Series – Michael C. HallTelevision Critics Association – New Program of the YearWGA - Episodic Drama - any length - one airing time Dark DefenderWGA - Best Dramatic SeriesPeabody Award - Announced April 2, 200867th Annual Peabody Awards2008Emmy - Outstanding Actor in a Drama Series - Michael C. HallEmmy - Outstanding Drama SeriesEmmy - Outstanding Art Direction - Tony Cowley, Linda SpheerisEmmy - Outstanding Cinematography - Romeo TironeReferences Comedy website Bangitout.com http://www.Bangitout.com spoofed the Dexter (TV series) introduction for its annual Jewish New Year Rosh Hashana Videohttp://www.bangitout.com/dessler.html wishing fans to have a "Killer New Year" http://www.bangitout.com/dessler.htmlExternal linksDexter at ShowtimeDexter at MetacriticDexter at TV.comCategory:Serial drama television series Category:2000s American television series Category:2006 television series debuts Category:Showtime network shows Category:Television shows set in Florida Category:Television programs based on novels Category:Peabody Award winners Category:Black comedybg:Декстър (сериал) cs:Dexter da:Dexter (tv-serie) de:Dexter (Fernsehserie) et:Dexter (seriaal) es:Dexter eu:Dexter fa:دکستر (مجموعه تلویزیونی) fr:Dexter (série télévisée) gl:Dexter ko:덱스터 id:Dexter it:Dexter he:דקסטר lt:Deksteris (TV serialas) hu:Dexter (televíziós sorozat) nl:Dexter (televisieserie) no:Dexter (TV-serie) pl:Dexter (serial telewizyjny) pt:Dexter (série de televisão) ru:Декстер (телесериал) simple:Dexter sk:Dexter (seriál USA) fi:Dexter sv:Dexter (TV-serie) uk:Декстер zh:双面法医