by Filippo Lippi, an example of Marian art]] The Regina Caeli or Regina Coeli ("Queen of Heaven", in ecclesastical Latin ), an ancient latin Marian Hymn of the Christian Church, is one of the four seasonal Marian antiphons of the Blessed Virgin Mary, prescribed to be sung or recited in the Liturgy of the Hours at the conclusion of the last of the hours to be prayed in common that day, typically night prayer (Compline or Vespers). The Regina Caeli is sung or recited in place of the angelus during the Easter season, from Holy Saturday through Pentecost Sunday. The Latin word coelum, meaning "heaven" (whence the English word celestial) appears to be a misspelling of caelum: only the form with ae is recognised in the Oxford Latin Dictionary. In mediaeval Latin, ae and oe were both pronounced eː.The author is unknown. Legend has it that St Gregory the Great heard angels chanting the first three lines one Easter morning in Rome, while following barefoot in a great religious procession the icon of the Virgin painted by Luke the Evangelist. He was thereupon inspired to add the fourth line.There are plainsong melodies (a simple and an ornate form) associated with Regina Caeli, the official or "typical" melody being found in the Vatican Antiphonary, 1911, p. 126. The antiphonal strophes of Regina Caeli were often set by polyphonic composers of the 16th century. There are three settings by the young Mozart, K.108, K.127, and K.276.The Marian anthems run the gamut of medieval literary styles, from the classical hexameters of the Alma Redemptoris Mater through the richly-rhymed accentual rhythm and regular strophes of the Ave Regina Caelorum, the irregular syntonic strophe of the Regina Caeli, to the sonorous prose rhythms with rhyming closes of the Salve Regina. "In the 16th century, the antiphons of our Lady were employed to replace the little office at all the hours" (Baudot, The Roman Breviary, 1909, p. 71).Latin text''Regina caeli, laetare, alleluia:''Quia quem meruisti portare. alleluia,''Resurrexit, sicut dixit, alleluia,''Ora pro nobis Deum, alleluia.In some forms, is added:Gaude et laetare, Virgo Maria, alleluia.Quia surrexit Dominus vere, alleluia.Oremus. Deus, qui per resurrectionem Filii tui, Domini nostri Iesu Christi, mundum laetificare dignatus es: praesta, quaesumus; ut per eius Genetricem Virginem Mariam, perpetuae capiamus gaudia vitae. Per eundem Christum Dominum nostrum. Amen.English textQueen of HeavenV. Queen of Heaven, rejoice, alleluia.R. For He whom you did merit to bear, alleluia.V. Has risen, as he said, alleluia.R. Pray for us to God, alleluia.V. Rejoice and be glad, O Virgin Mary, alleluia.R. For the Lord has truly risen, alleluia.Let us pray. O God, who gave joy to the world through the resurrection of Thy Son, our Lord Jesus Christ, grant we beseech Thee, that through the intercession of the Virgin Mary, His Mother, we may obtain the joys of everlasting life. Through the same Christ our Lord. Amen.Queen of heaven, be joyful, alleluia:For He whom you merited to bear, alleluia,Has risen, as He said, alleluia.Pray for us to God, alleluia.Rejoice and be glad, O Virgin Mary, alleluia.For the Lord has truly risen, alleluia.Let us pray. O God, who gave joy to the world through the resurrection of Thy Son, our Lord Jesus Christ: grant we beseech Thee, that through the intercession of the Virgin Mary, His Mother, we may obtain the joys of everlasting life. Through the same Christ our Lord. Amen.An alternate translation:Joy to you, O Queen of Heaven, alleluia:He whom you were fit to bear, alleluia,As He promised has aris'n, alleluia.Pour for us to God your prayer, alleluia.V. Rejoice and be glad, O Virgin Mary, alleluia.R. For the Lord has risen indeed, alleluia.Let us pray.O God, you gave joy to the world through the resurrection of your Son our Lord Jesus Christ, grant we pray you, that through the intercession of the Virgin Mary, His Mother, we may obtain the joys of everlasting life, through the same Christ our Lord. Amen.In Anglo-Catholic churches, the alternate translation above which is in 7.7.7.7 metre is usually sung to same tune as the Easter hymn, "Jesus Christ is Risen Today."External linksCatholic Encyclopedia: Regina Coeli (Queen of Heaven) Category:Marian Devotions Category:Roman Catholic prayers Category:Catholic liturgy Category:Marian antiphonsCategory:Titles of Marybr:Regina Coeli de:Regina Coeli es:Regina Coeli fr:Regina Cœli it:Regina Coeli la:Regina Caeli hu:Regina coeli nl:Regina Coeli ja:レジーナ・チェリ pag:Regina Coeli pl:Regina Coeli pt:Regina Coeli