, whose reconstructed fort is based on the column's reliefs).]] Trajan's Column is a monument in Rome raised in honour of the Roman emperor Trajan and constructed by the architect Apollodorus of Damascus at the order of the Roman Senate. It is located in Trajan's Forum, built near the Quirinal Hill, north of the Roman Forum. Completed in 113, the freestanding column is most famous for its spiral bas relief, which commemorates Trajan's victory in the Dacian Wars.The structure is about 30 meters (98 ft) in height, 38 meters (125 ft) including its large pedestal. The shaft is made from a series of 20 colossal Carrara marble drums, each weighing about 40 tons, with a diameter of about 4 meters (13 ft). The 190 meter (625 ft) frieze winds around the shaft 23 times. Inside the shaft, a spiral staircase of 185 stairs provides access to a viewing platform at the top.According to coins depicting the column, it was originally topped with a statue of a bird, possibly an eagle, and later by a heroically nude statue of Trajan himself which disappeared in the Middle Ages. In 1588, it was replaced by a statue of St. Peter (which still remains), commissioned by Pope Sixtus V.The reliefThe relief portrays Trajan's two victorious military campaigns against the Dacians; the lower half illustrating the first (101-102), and the top half illustrating the second (105-106).The two sections are separated by a personification of Victory writing on a shield flanked on either side by Trophies. Otherwise, the scenes on the frieze unfold continuously and in tipped-up perspective. The imagery is not realistic as the sculptor pays little attention to perspective. Often a variety of different perspectives are used in the same scene, so that more can be revealed (e.g. a different angle is used to show men working behind a wall).The scenes depict mostly the Roman army in military activities such as setting out to battle and engaging the Dacians, as well as constructing fortifications and listening to the emperor's address. The carvings are crowded with sailors, soldiers, statesmen and priests, showing about 2,500 figures in all and providing a valuable source of information for modern historians on Roman and barbaric arms and methods of warfare (such as forts, ships, weapons etc.). The relief shows such details as a ballista or catapult for example. The emperor Trajan, depicted realistically (not superhuman), makes 59 appearances among his troops. A large figure of a river god is also visible.The base is covered with reliefs of trophies of Dacian weapons. Such imagery had the connotation of a surrender, as in Ancient times the defeated soldiers would dump their weapons in a pile as a term of surrender. Image:Trajans column from SE.jpg Image:Trajans column from SSW.jpg Image:Trajans column from WSW.jpg Image:Trajans column from east 01.jpg Image:Trajans column from east 02.jpg Image:Trajans column from north.jpg The inscriptionThe inscription at the base of the column in finest lettering reads:SENATVS·POPVLVSQVE·ROMANVS IMP·CAESARI·DIVI·NERVAE·F·NERVAE TRAIANO·AVG·GERM·DACICO·PONTIF MAXIMO·TRIB·POT··IMP··COS··P·P AD·DECLARANDVM·QVANTAE·ALTITVDINIS MONS·ET·LOCVS·TANTIBVS·SIT·EGESTVS Translated, the inscription reads: The Senate and people of Rome or dedicate this to the emperor Caesar, son of the divine Nerva, Nerva Traianus Augustus Germanicus Dacicus, pontifex maximus, in his 17th year in the office of tribune, having been acclaimed 6&nbsp;times as imperator, 6&nbsp;times consul, pater patriae, to demonstrate of what great height the hill was and place that was removed for such great works. It was believed that the column was supposed to stand where the saddle between the Capitoline and Quirinal Hills used to be, having been excavated by Trajan, but excavation has revealed that this is not the case. The saddle was where Trajan's Forum and Trajan's Market stood. Hence, the inscription refers to the Trajan's entire building project in the area of the Imperial fora.This is perhaps the most famous example of Roman square capitals, a script often used for stone monuments, and less often for manuscript writing. As it was meant to be read from below, the bottom letters are slightly smaller than the top letters, to give proper perspective. Some, but not all, word divisions are marked with a dot, and many of the words, especially the titles, are abbreviated. In the inscription, numerals are marked with a titulus, a bar across the top of the letters. A small piece at the bottom of the inscription has been lost.The typeface Trajan, designed in 1989 by Carol Twombly, uses letterforms based on this inscription. There have been many other typefaces based on the inscription from such designers as Frederic Goudy.http://www.myfonts.com/browse/keyword/trajan/PurposeIt was traditionally thought that the Column was a propagandistic monument, glorifying the emperor's military exploits. However, the structure would have been generally invisible and surrounded by the two libraries in Trajan's Forum, and because of the difficulty involved in following the frieze from end to end, it could be said to have had much less propaganda value.On the other hand, as Paul Veyne notes, the relief could be read "vertically" from below, with the stereotypical, highly recognizable figure of the emperor recognizable across the bands of images— just as, on the Colonne Vendome, Napoleon's figure can be picked up, scene after scene.After Trajan's death in 117, the Roman Senate voted to have Trajan's ashes buried in the Column's square base which is decorated with captured Dacian arms and armor. His ashes and those of his wife, Plotina, were set inside the base in golden urns. (The ashes no longer lie there.)Casts  Image:Traj col exhibit 1.jpg|Plaster casts of Trajan's Column displayed at National Museum of Romanian History Image:Trajan's Column V&A casts 001.jpg|V&amp;A cast court Image:Cast Court from upper walkway.JPG|Cast court from upper gallery Image:Inside the cast of Trajan's column.JPG|Inside the cast at the V&amp;A  Plaster casts of the relief were taken in the 19th and 20th centuries. Ironically, after a century of acid pollution, they are now more legible in some details than the original and, even when not, offer students a closer look at the reliefs because of the way they are displayed. Examples can be seen at:Museum of Roman Civilization in Rome, where each 'frame' of the narrative has been cut into a separate section and the sections are then displayed horizontally in orderNational Museum of Romanian History, Bucharest, Romania; displayed horizontally in segmentshttp://www.mnir.ro/expozit/columna/columna2_uk.htm.the Cast Courts at the Victoria and Albert Museum, London. Displayed in column form and including the base, the column is chopped into two halvesInspiredRomeColumn of Marcus AureliusColumn of Antoninus PiusByzantiumColumn of TheodosiusColumn of ArcadiusModernMarian and Holy Trinity columnsColonne VendomeCongress Column in BrusselsColumns in the front of Church Carlo Borromeo in Vienna"Trajan's Column": a humorous weekly article published by Adam Warren, c. 1970 - 1973, in "Château", the weekly newspaper at Royal Holloway College, University of London, since merged with Bedford College to become Royal Holloway and Bedford New College.See alsoAncient Roman cranesColumn of Antoninus PiusColumn of Marcus AureliusRoman ArchitectureSolomonic columnReferencesExternal linksExtensive database of images and explanationsPhotographs of the reliefsA description of the column. is located at  Category:Ancient Roman architecture Category:2nd century Roman sculptures Category:Monumental columns in Rome Category:2nd century architecture Category:Victory monumentsbg:Траянова колона ca:Columna de Trajà de:Trajanssäule es:Columna de Trajano eo:Trajana Kolono fr:Colonne Trajane gv:Colloo Trajan gl:Columna de Traxano ko:트라야누스 원주 hr:Trajanov stup it:Colonna Traiana he:עמוד טריאנוס la:Columna Traiana hu:Traianus-oszlop nl:Zuil van Trajanus nn:Trajansøyla pl:Kolumna Trajana pt:Coluna de Trajano ro:Columna lui Traian ru:Колонна Траяна sk:Trajánov stĺp fi:Trajanuksen pylväs sv:Trajanuskolonnen zh:图拉真柱