Michel Sardou (born January 26, 1947) is a French singer.He was born in Paris, the son of Fernand Sardou and Jackie Rollin (Jackie Sardou). Contrary to claims common towards the beginning of his career, he is not the grandson of the dramatist Victorien Sardou. However, he is the father of the French novelist Romain Sardou, and the actor Davy Sardou.He is known not only for his love songs ("La Maladie d'Amour"), but also for songs dealing with various social and political issues, such as the rights of women in Islamic countries, clerical celibacy, colonialism and the death penalty. Another sometimes controversial theme found in some of his songs ("Les Ricains" and "Monsieur le Président de France" for example) is his respect and support for the culture and foreign policies of the United States. He has focused his full attention on his homeland, ignoring the prospect of an international audience, although his 1981 single "Les Lacs du Connemara" did manage to become a big international hit. A number of his hit songs were written in collaboration with Jacques Revaux, a few others (most notably "En Chantant") with Italian singer Toto Cutugno.Even in the 21st century, Michel Sardou remains immensely popular in France, selling out 18 consecutive dates at Palais Omnisports de Paris-Bercy in 2001, while his 2004 album "Du plaisir" went straight to the no. 1 spot on the French album charts.He has been married three times; first (1965 - 1977) to a dancer Françoise Pettré, the mother of his daughters Sandrine (b. 1970) and Cynthia (b. 1973); then (1977 - 1998) to Elizabeth "Babette" Haas, the mother of his sons Romain (b. 1974) who is a writer and Davy (b. 1978) who is a comedian; and lastly to a lifelong friend Anne-Marie Périer (the daughter of the actor François Périer) who was the editor of the French version of ELLE magazine.External links Official siteBiography of Michel Sardou, from Radio France Internationale   Category:1947 births Category:Living people Category:French male singers de:Michel Sardou (Sänger) es:Michel Sardou eo:Michel Sardou fr:Michel Sardou io:Michel Sardou nl:Michel Sardou pl:Michel Sardou pt:Michel Sardou ru:Сарду, Мишель fi:Michel Sardou