   Accra is the capital, and most populous city of Ghana. The city also doubles as the capital of the Greater Accra Region, and of the Accra Metropolis District with which it is coterminoushttp://www.ghanadistricts.com/districts/?news&amp;r=1&amp;_=3&lt;/ref&gt;. It is the administrative, communications, and economic center of the country. Over 70% of Ghana's manufacturing capacity is located within this region district. 'Formal Economy'&lt;!--Bot-generated title--&gt; Accra has been Ghana's capital since 1877, and contains public buildings reflecting its transition from a 19th century suburb of Victoriasborg to the modern metropolis it is today.Among the attractions of Accra are the National Museum, with a display of exhibits that reflect the heritage of Ghana from prehistoric times to modern times, the National Theatre with its distinct modern architecture, Independence Square, the Kwame Nkrumah Mausoleum, the Accra International Conference Centre, the fishing port at Jamestown and Makola Market.The University of Ghana at Legon is just 14 km north of Accra, and its distinctive buildings are set amongst tree-lined gardens that are visited by students and visitors alike.Accra is also linked internationally by the Kotoka International Airport. Ghana Civil Aviation Authority | Home&lt;!--Bot-generated title--&gt;History Accra was founded by the Ga people in the late 1600s. The word Accra is derived from the word Nkran meaning "ants" in Akan, a reference to the numerous anthills seen in the countryside around Accra. During part of its history, Accra served as a centre for trade with the Portuguese, who built a fort in the town, followed by the Swedish, Dutch, French, British and Danish by the end of the seventeenth century.The site of present-day Accra developed into a sizable town around the original Ga town as well as British, Danish and Dutch forts and their surrounding communities: Jamestown near the British fort, Osu near the Danish Christianborg fort (now Osu Castle) and Ussherstown near the Dutch Ussher fort. The four areas form the core of the modern city.In 1877, at the end of the second Anglo-Asante War, Accra replaced Cape Coast as the capital of the British Gold Coast colony. After the completion of a railway to the mining and agricultural interior, Accra became the economic centre of Ghana. Large areas were destroyed by earthquakes in 1862 and 1939, but the city grew around a seaport (now relocated to Tema), and later a brewery, expanding into neighbouring towns.The Accra Riots in 1948 launched the Ghanaian campaign for independence, which led to the Ghana's independence from the United Kingdom and nationhood in 1957.Today, Accra is one of the wealthiest and most modern cities in the African continent, with a high quality of living by African standards.Attractions]]Accra is home to the National Museum of Ghana, the Ghana Academy of Arts and Sciences, the National Archives of Ghana, and Ghana's central library. Also of note is Christianborg or Osu Castle -- the residence of the president of Ghana, built by the Danes in the 17th century, the National Theatre, Accra Centre for National Culture, a lighthouse, the Ohene Djan Stadium, the Accra International Conference Centre, the W.E.B. DuBois Memorial Centre for Pan-African Culture and several beaches. Near the Parliament of Ghana is the Ghana-India Kofi Annan Centre for Excellence in ICT.The Kwame Nkrumah Memorial is located in downtown Accra.Osu is a neighborhood in the city known for its dining and nightlife options. ClimateEducationOn the outskirts of Accra are two popular secondary schools namely Achimota Secondary School; commonly referred to as "Motown", which was founded in 1924 and opened in 1927, and the Presbyterian Boys' Secondary; commonly known as "Presec". In the vicinity of these two secondary schools is Ghana's first tertiary institution, the University of Ghana. It is located and 13 km north at Legon. Quite recently, another tertiary institution - Ashesi University - was established in Accra. Ghana International School (GIS), a private non-profit A-Level school founded in 1955 for children from ages 3-18 is located in Cantonments, Accra. Abelemkpe is the home of Lincoln Community School, Accra Ghana (LCS). LCS is also a private, non-profit International Baccalaureate school for students aged 3-18, and was established in 1968. The Defence Commission of the African Union has its headquarters in Accra.==Transport== Accra is a major transport hub, home to the Kotoka International Airport and lies on railway lines to Tema, Takoradi and Kumasi. The main harbour city, Tema is connected through one of Ghana's highways.Public transit in the city is provided by a mix of privately owned mini-buses (known as Tro-Tros), taxis and buses. Tro-Tros are usually converted Mini-buses that run a regular, well-known route. They are cheap and frequent but often in poor repair and over-crowded. Some taxis also run regular routes, which cost more but provide for a more comfortable ride. In 2002, the city introduced metro bus services, which were initially met with scepticism by commuters, but have increased in popularity.Sister Cities Chicago, Illinois, United States Washington, D.C., United StatesSister Cities International&lt;!--Bot-generated title--&gt;Gallery Image:holy-spirit-cathedral.jpg Image:labadi_beach.jpg Image:premier-towers.jpg Image:strip-mall.jpg Image:Ghana International Airline new office.jpg Image:New Accra Mall ReferencesExternal linksLatest Accra NewsMap of AccraGoogle Earth image of Accra, Ghana    Category:Cities, towns and villages in Ghana Category:15th century establishments Category:Capitals in Africa Category:Coastal settlements Category:Former Portuguese colonies Category:Former Dutch colonies Category:Former Danish colonies Category:Port settlements in Africa Accra Category:Accra Category:Dutch Gold Coastaf:Accra ak:Nkran am:አክራ ar:أكرا frp:Accra be-x-old:Акра bo:ཨ་ཁ་ར bs:Accra br:Accra bg:Акра ca:Accra cs:Accra cy:Accra da:Accra de:Accra et:Accra el:Άκρα es:Accra eo:Akrao eu:Akkra fr:Accra ga:Accra gd:Accra gl:Accra ko:아크라 hy:Ակրա hr:Accra io:Accra id:Accra os:Аккрæ is:Akkra it:Accra he:אקרה jv:Accra ka:აკრა sw:Accra ht:Akra la:Accra lv:Akra lb:Accra lt:Akra hu:Accra mk:Акра, Гана mr:आक्रा nl:Accra ja:アクラ no:Accra nn:Accra nov:Akra oc:Accra pms:Accra pl:Akra (Ghana) pt:Acra ksh:Accra ro:Accra ru:Аккра simple:Accra sk:Akkra sl:Akra sr:Акра su:Accra fi:Accra sv:Accra tl:Accra ta:அக்ரா vi:Accra tg:Аккра tr:Akra tw:Nkran uk:Аккра vec:Accra vo:Accra fiu-vro:Accra bat-smg:Akra zh:阿克拉