 | dateofbirth =  | cityofbirth = Pisa | countryofbirth = Italy | currentclub = Juventus | clubnumber = 3 | position = Centre back | youthyears = | youthclubs = Livorno | years = 2000&ndash;20042004&ndash;20052005&ndash; | clubs = LivornoFiorentinaJuventus | caps(goals) = 55 (4)37 (3)83 (6) | nationalyears = 2004&ndash;20072004&ndash; | nationalteam = Italy U-21Italy | nationalcaps(goals) = 26 (6)14 (1) | pcupdate = October 5 2008 | ntupdate = October 11 2008       Giorgio Chiellini (born August 14 1984 in Pisa) is an Italian footballer who currently plays for Juventus of the Italian Serie A. He is a centre back who started his career playing as a left-back.Club careerEarly yearsGiorgios parents are called Fabio and Lucia, he is one of three siblings, his twin brother Claudio, Fabio and sister Lucia. He started playing at 6 years of age for Livorno and at first was used as a central midfielder. As he grew up, he was switched on the wing and finally he found his position as a lateral defender. These days, thanks to his flexibility, he can be employed as a central defender too.JuventusHe was signed by Juventus in summer 2004, for €6.5 million, but immediately sold on co-ownership deal to Fiorentina for €3.5 million, where he played for 2004–05 season.After an excellent first season in Serie A, Chiellini was recalled by Juventus for the 2005–06 season, where Juventus paid €4.3 million for full-ownership. He has been a regular fixture in the Bianconeri backline in their return to Serie A and was named "Man of the Match" in a game against Inter Milan when he won a physical and heated duel with ex-Juve teammate Zlatan Ibrahimović, allowing the in-form hitman no goals. Chiellini extended his original contract from until 2009 to 2011 on October 12 2006.Chiellini renews contractAfter the Calciopoli scandal, Chiellini was a starter for Juventus in Serie B. After their triumphant return to Serie A, Giorgio Chiellini was converted by coach Claudio Ranieri into a center-back, having played left back in his career until this point. Chiellini had a tremendous season, named by many as the best center-back in all of Serie A. Alongside his reborn center-defense partner Nicola Legrottaglie, the duo led Juventus to the 2nd-least conceded goals for the season, despite many penalties awarded against Juventus controversially. The surprising aspect of this is that neither were considered remotely close to pinning down a center-back position in the summer before the season, with Domenico Criscito and Jorge Andrade preferred as the starting duo.On August 17, 2008 Giorgio injured his left knee again during the Trofeo Luigi Berlusconi. The extent of the damage is yet to be determined, but he will be unable to play for at least 6 weeks, possibly even 6 months. However, he returned marvelously fast to duty, after only a month out. Despite this, many Juventus supporters believe he is not fully healed as he has made two uncharacteristic mistakes that led to goals in recent weeks.International careerChiellini made his debut for the Italian national team in November 2004 against Finland, and has since become a regular squad member. He won the European Under-19 Championship with Italy in 2003, and was also a member of the Italy team that won the bronze medals at the football tournament of the 2004 Summer Olympics. He was named in the 'UEFA Team of the tournament' of the 2007 U-21 Championships held in the Netherlands where they qualified for the 2008 Summer Olympics.He was called up to Italy's squad for Euro 2008, however Chiellini stood out more in that tournament for injuring fellow team mate and former FIFA World Player of the Year Fabio Cannavaro in a training session at Coverciano. He initially was sidelined in the opening game against the Netherlands, Italy went on to lose the match 3-0 and Chiellini eventually received the nod to partner Christian Panucci at centre back after disappointing displays from Andrea Barzagli and Marco Materazzi in the opening match. Chiellini settled into the team by playing the next group matches against Romania and France his best display was to come against Spain where he kept both David Villa and Fernando Torres out of the game, although Italy lost the match on penalties with Iker Casillas saving both Daniele De Rossi and Antonio Di Natale's penalties.International goalUpdated to games played November 21, 2007.Source: http://213.92.78.197/nazionali/menu_cifre.htm&lt;/ref&gt;#DateVenueOpponentScoreResultCompetition1.November 21, 2007Modena, ItalyFRO3–03-1UEFA Euro 2008 Qualification]]Personal lifeGirgio Chiellini is close friends to A.S. Roma player Alberto Aquilani, where they first met training for the Italian National youth team. They keep in contact and on a numerous number of occasions Chiellini has hinted to Aquilani that life in Turin is beautiful and that he should consider moving to Juventus. He achieved a high school diploma in scientific subjects and was thus able to enrol at Turin University, where he's currently studying Business.ReferencesExternal linksProfile and Stats on Juventus F.C. official site National Team Stats at FIGC official sitehttp://www.euro2008.uefa.com/news/kind=1/newsid=704508.htmlhttp://www.goal.com/en-US/Articolo.aspx?ContenutoId=720568  Category:1984 births Category:A.S. Livorno Calcio players Category:ACF Fiorentina players Category:Football (soccer) fullbacks Category:Footballers at the 2004 Summer Olympics Category:Italian footballers Category:Italy international footballers Category:Italy under-21 international footballers Category:Juventus F.C. players Category:Living people Category:Olympic bronze medalists for Italy Category:Olympic footballers of Italy Category:People from the Province of Pisa Category:Serie A players Category:UEFA Euro 2008 playersar:جورجو كييليني de:Giorgio Chiellini es:Giorgio Chiellini fr:Giorgio Chiellini it:Giorgio Chiellini hu:Giorgio Chiellini nl:Giorgio Chiellini ja:ジョルジョ・キエッリーニ no:Giorgio Chiellini pl:Giorgio Chiellini pt:Giorgio Chiellini ru:Кьеллини, Джорджио sl:Giorgio Chiellini fi:Giorgio Chiellini sv:Giorgio Chiellini vi:Giorgio Chiellini tr:Giorgio Chiellini zh:乔吉奥·基耶利尼