 World Trade Center is a 2006 American drama film, directed by Oliver Stone and based on the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks on the same-titled towers of New York City. The film stars Nicolas Cage, Michael Peña, Maria Bello, Maggie Gyllenhaal, and Michael Shannon. The movie was shot from 19 October 2005 - 10 February 2006.for verification visit http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0469641/business&lt;/ref&gt;SynopsisThe true story of Port Authority police officers John McLoughlin and Will Jimeno, who, while patrolling the Port Authority Bus Terminal in Midtown Manhattan, see a plane fly low overhead.As all of the police officers return to the station, they see the TV, and find that the North Tower of the World Trade Center has been hit by a plane. Sergeant McLoughlin assigns many of the officers to assist in an evacuation attempt of the (still undamaged) South Tower, and they board a commandeered Metropolitan Transit Authority bus. On the bus they hear reports that the South Tower has also been hit.When they arrive at the site of the World Trade Center, they see many disturbing things, including one of the first victims jumping out of the tower to their death. As Jimeno drops off their police equipment in 5 World Trade Center, officers proceed to get safety equipment and walk into the concourse of the towers. The group consists of McLoughlin, Jimeno, Dominick Pezzulo, and Antonio Rodrigues.An officer, named Chris Amoroso, runs along to tell them of the other events such as the Pentagon being hit by what they believed to be a missile, and the South Tower being hit by another plane. The group do not believe that the South Tower has been hit. As the group prepare to enter the North Tower, the buildings begin to rumble. Looking around, McLoughlin realizes that the South Tower is collapsing onto them, and their only chance of survival is to run into the service elevator shaft. Chris trips and doesn't have time to get up. Rodrigues isn't able to get to the shaft in time. McLoughlin, Jimeno and Pezzulo manage to escape the huge amounts of dust and rubble flying down from the South Tower. But as the rubble continues to crush the elevator shaft, the three are knocked out.As the group wake up, Pezzulo realises he can free himself, and manages to go nearer to Jimeno in the rubble, who, along with McLoughlin, have survived the collapse of the South Tower. As Pezzulo gets optimistic that they will live, the rumbling starts up again, as the North Tower is now collapsing as well. Although Jimeno and McLoughlin are unharmed, Pezzulo is fatally wounded and, after firing his gun up through a gap in the rubble to try to alert rescuers to their position, dies.After Jimeno and McLoughlin spend hours under the rubble, two United States Marines, Dave Karnes and Jason Thomas, who are searching for survivors of the tower collapse, find Jimeno and McLoughlin and call for help to dig them out.Their families are called and told that their husbands have walked out of the rubble in perfect health, but this is wrong; in fact, they are both in danger of dying. When the wives arrive, they are told that their husbands are in the garage and rush to meet them. McLoughlin's family manages to find him just before he is pulled into the operating room to be put in a medically induced coma.Two years later, as they attend a celebration to receive an award for courage, the families are happy again that the two officers, McLoughlin and Jimeno, survived the biggest terrorist attack in US history.Box office and critical receptionOn opening weekend it gained approximately $18,730,762 in the U.S. and Canada. As of October 25, 2006 the film has made $70,278,893 at the North American Box-Office. Worldwide the film has taken in over $162,000,000.http://boxofficemojo.com/movies/?id=wtc.htmThe film garnered moderate critical acclaim, with a 70% "Fresh" approval rating on Rotten Tomatoeshttp://uk.rottentomatoes.com/m/world_trade_center/ and a 66% metascore at Metacritichttp://www.metacritic.com/film/titles/worldtradecenter.AwardsBest Picture - Online Film Fans Awards, October 23, 2006Best Director, Oliver Stone - Online Film Fans AwardsCriticismParticipation of those involvedJeanette Pezzulo, the widow of Port Authority police officer Dominick Pezzulo (who died on 9/11 and is played by Jay Hernandez in this film), has expressed anger with the film, criticizing McLoughlin and Jimeno's participation in its production. She's quoted as saying, "My thing is: this man died for you. How do you do this to this family?" Staten Island resident Jamie Amoroso, whose husband also died during the rescue operation, has also expressed her anger over the film and said she did "not need a movie" to tell her "what a hero" her husband was. Baltimore detective Ken Nacke, whose brother Louis died on Flight 93, said he would not be going to see the film. He criticized its producers for not involving enough of the survivors' families in its production, something he said did happen with ''United 93'' director Paul Greengrass, who collected the blessings of all the victims' families before shooting his controversial film (although it has been reported that the widow of United 93 victim Christian Adams refused to cooperate in the making of that film. See ''United 93'' Controversy). He added: "I met a couple of people who lost relatives and had approached the producers and weren't allowed to be involved, and I think it would be disrespectful to them if I went to see it." Despite the fact that some of the film's profits were to be donated, Stone has been accused of profiteering by some. The Port Authority police officers who are played by Cage and Peña, John McLoughlin and Will Jimeno, and their wives, played by Bello and Gyllenhaal, were involved with the production and continue to support the film. McLoughlin's wife Donna has said: "We got involved because we felt it needed to be done accurately. We wanted to do the right thing and I think the filmmakers wanted to do the right thing too." Both John McLoughlin and William Jimeno appear at the end of the film during the barbecue scene.9/11 conspiracy theoriesThere were initial concerns this film would examine 9/11 conspiracy theories because director Oliver Stone is known for examining similar theories in his films (JFK in particular), and some 9/11 conspiracy websites are promoting the idea that the film does contain hints of the conspiracy. Stone and the producers, however, have said the film is a simple dedication to the heroism and sadness of the day with little-to-no political themes.The Los Angeles Times reported that 9/11 conspiracy theorists were boycotting the film and were disappointed Stone didn't make a JFK style conspiracy film. "Was Stone used by the Illuminati as an unknowing pawn to whitewash the 9/11 conspiracy theories to the masses?" wondered author John Conner. Syndicated radio hosts Jack Blood and Alex Jones also expressed similar views that many in the 9/11 Truth Movement were expecting Stone to give them a voice and felt let down.Factual inaccuraciesvan represents the company's image from 2004.]] Commentators have pointed out a number of factual inaccuracies in the film, particularly concerning the rescue effort. The film has been accused of not providing a fair portrayal of the character and motives of rescuer Dave Karnes, a pivotal character in the film who did not cooperate in the making of the film. The film also inaccurately portrayed Jason Thomas, who joined Karnes in the rescue, as white when he was really black. The film's producers realized the mistake only after production began, and apologized to Thomas, whose identity had not been widely known for years after September 11. Also, on the DVD commentary, Oliver Stone refers to Jason Thomas as Mike Thomas.Critics of the film say it inaccurately identified the rescuers who worked to free Jimeno and McLouglin, failed to accurately convey the time required to dig the men out, and that it understated the dangers posed to the rescuers. Among other things, the film failed to properly acknowledge the role of paramedic Chuck Sereika. Contrary to that which is depicted in the film, Sereika began treating and extricating Jimeno a full 20 minutes before officers from the New York City Police Department's Emergency Services Unit arrived.Media releasesDVD formatThe Region 1 DVD was released on Tuesday, December 12 2006 with the Region 2 release following on January 29 2007. A special 2-disc set was also released, which includes the following bonus features:Disc oneCommentary by Oliver StoneCommentary by Will Jimeno and rescuers Scott Strauss, John Busching and Paddy McGeeNine deleted/extended scenes with optional audio commentaryDisc twoThe Making of World Trade CenterCommon SacrificesBuilding Ground ZeroVisual and Special EffectsOliver Stone's New YorkQ+A with Oliver StoneTheatrical Trailer5 TV SpotsPhoto GalleryA 3-Disc Deluxe Edition was produced exclusively for Target stores. The third disc came with "In Their Own Words," a 75 minute series of interviews, including survivors John McLoughlin and Will Jimeno, their spouses, and other survivors and rescuers.Blu-ray and HD/DVD versionsDisc oneCommentary by Oliver StoneCommentary by Will Jimeno and rescuers Scott Strauss, John Busching and Paddy McGeeNine deleted/extended scenes with optional audio commentary.Disc TwoThe Making of World Trade Center HDCommon Sacrifices HDBuilding Ground Zero HDVisual and Special Effects HDOliver Stone's New York HDQ+A with Oliver StoneTheatrical Trailer5 TV SpotsPhoto GalleryAlthough Paramount initially dropped its support of the Blu-ray format, it is now supporting Blu-ray again with HD DVD's demise. This movie will re-appear on Blu-ray in May 2008.The 2-disc HD DVD and 2-disc Blu-ray sets have the same bonuses as the 2-disc DVD set. The Target 3-disc Deluxe Edition has more extras than any other release, including the HD DVD and Blu-ray versions.== See also ==World Trade CenterSeptember 11, 2001 AttacksCollapse of the World Trade CenterWill JimenoDave KarnesJohn McLoughlinDominick PezzuloJason Thomas''United 93''List of firefighting filmsNotesReferences[http://www.wtcmovie.com/ World Trade Center official site]Article in Court TV Crime Library[http://www.craigarmstrongonline.com/ Craig Armstrong - Movie Score Composer][http://wcbstv.com/topstories/local_story_215224736.html 'World Trade Center' Movie Leaves Real Heroes Awestruck][http://www.wcbstv.com/911 September 11th Remembered]Images from the filmTribute to Will JimenoExternal links[http://star-talk-live-interview-archive.blogspot.com/2006/08/interview-oliver-stone-cast-world.html Interview with Oliver Stone & the cast of World Trade Center]Category:2006 films Category:American films Category:Disaster films Category:Docudramas Category:English-language films Category:Films based on the September 11 attacks Category:Films set in New York City Category:Clifton, New Jersey Category:Films directed by Oliver Stone Category:Films shot in Super 35 Category:Firefighting films Category:Paramount filmsca:World Trade Center (pel·lícula) da:World Trade Center (film) de:World Trade Center (Film) es:World Trade Center (película) fr:World Trade Center (film) id:World Trade Center (film) it:World Trade Center (film 2006) he:מגדלי התאומים (סרט) hu:World Trade Center (film) nl:World Trade Center (film) ja:ワールド・トレード・センター (映画) no:World Trade Center (film) pl:World Trade Center (film) pt:World Trade Center (filme) fi:World Trade Center (elokuva) sv:World Trade Center (film) tr:World Trade Center (film) zh:世贸中心 (电影)