 VRML (Virtual Reality Modeling Language, pronounced vermal or by its initials, originally — before 1995 — known as the Virtual Reality Markup Language) is a standard file format for representing 3-dimensional (3D) interactive vector graphics, designed particularly with the World Wide Web in mind.FormatVRML is a text file format where, e.g., vertices and edges for a 3D polygon can be specified along with the surface color, UV mapped textures, shininess, transparency, and so on. URLs can be associated with graphical components so that a web browser might fetch a web-page or a new VRML file from the Internet when the user clicks on the specific graphical component. Animations, sounds, lighting, and other aspects of the virtual world can interact with the user or may be triggered by external events such as timers. A special Script Node allows the addition of program code (e.g., written in Java or JavaScript (ECMAScript)) to a VRML file.VRML files are commonly called "worlds" and have the *.wrl extension (for example island.wrl). Although VRML worlds use a text format, they may often be compressed using gzip so that they transfer over the internet more quickly (some gzip compressed files use the *.wrz extension). Many 3D modeling programs can save objects and scenes in VRML format.Example VRML document#VRML V2.0 utf8
WorldInfo 
DEF Sphere1 Shape 
 
 geometry DEF GeoSphere1 Sphere 
StandardizationThe Web3D Consortium has been formed to further the collective development of the format. VRML (and its successor, X3D), have been accepted as international standards by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO).The first version of VRML was specified in November 1994. This version was specified from, and very closely resembled, the API and file format of the Open Inventor software component, originally developed by SGI. The current and functionally complete version is VRML97 (ISO/IEC 14772-1:1997). VRML has now been superseded by X3D (ISO/IEC 19775-1)Emergence, popularity, and rival technical upgradeThe term VRML was coined by Dave Raggett in a paper submitted to The First International Conference on the World-Wide Web in 1994, and first discussed at the WWW94 VRML BOF established by Tim Berners-Lee, where Mark Pesce presented the Labyrinth demo he developed with Tony Parisi & Peter Kennard.In 1997, a new version of the format was finalized, as VRML97 (also known as VRML2 or VRML 2.0), and became an ISO standard. VRML97 was used on the Internet on some personal homepages and sites such as "CyberTown", which offered 3D chat using Blaxxun Software. The format was championed by SGI's Cosmo Software; when SGI restructured in 1998 the division was sold to Platinum Technologies, which was then taken over by Computer Associates, which did not develop or distribute the software. To fill the void a variety of proprietary Web 3D formats emerged over the next few years, including Microsoft Chrome and Adobe Atmosphere, neither of which is supported today. VRML's capabilities remained largely the same while realtime 3D graphics kept improving. The VRML Consortium changed its name to the Web3D Consortium, and began work on the successor to VRML – X3D.H-Anim is a standard for animated Humanoids, which is based around VRML, and later X3D. The initial version 1.0 of the H-Anim standard was scheduled for submission at the end of March 1998.VRML provoked much interest but has never seen much serious widespread use; VRML experimentation was primarily in education and research where an open specification is most valued. It has now been re-engineered as X3D. The MPEG-4 Interactive Profile (ISO/IEC 14496) was based on VRML (now on X3D), and X3D is largely backward-compatible with it. VRML is also widely used as a file format for interchange of 3D models, particularly from CAD systems.CriticismIn a March 1998 ACM essay, "Playfulness in 3D Spaces -- Why Quake is better than VRML, and what it means for software design", Clay Shirky sharply criticised VRML as a "technology in search of a problem", whereas "Quake does something well instead of many things poorly...The VRML community has failed to come up with anything this compelling -- not despite the community's best intentions, but because of them. Every time VRML practitioners approach the problem of how to represent space on the screen, they have no focused reason to make any particular trade-off of detail versus rendering speed, or making objects versus making spaces, because VRML isn't for anything except itself. Many times, having a particular, near-term need to solve brings a project's virtues into sharp focus, and gives it enough clarity to live on its own."Clay Shirky: Playfulness in 3-D SpacesAlternatives3DMLW (3D Markup Language for Web)COLLADAU3DX3D (successor of VRML)See alsoFlux, freely downloadable VRML/X3D editor/browserFreeWRL, free Open Source VRML/X3D browserList of vector graphics markup languagesSeamless3d free Open Source modelling softwareWeb3DExternal links         GeneralVRML and X3D Plugin Detector that determines which VRML and X3D plugins are installed in your web browsercomp.lang.vrml newsgroupVRML at the Open Directory ProjectDocumentationVRML ArchivesVRML Annotated ReferenceVRML ISO/IEC 14772 standard documentVRML and X3D descriptionExtensible 3D: XML Meets VRMLWeb3D ConsortiumH-Anim working groupCategory:Graphics standards Category:ISO standards Category:Virtual reality Category:Graphics file formats Category:3D computer graphics Category:Vector graphics markup languagescs:VRML da:Virtual Reality Modeling Language de:Virtual Reality Modeling Language es:VRML fr:Virtual Reality Markup Language gl:VRML id:VRML it:VRML nl:VRML ja:VRML pl:VRML pt:VRML ru:VRML sl:VRML sr:VRML fi:VRML sv:Virtual reality modeling language th:วีอาร์เอ็มแอล tr:VRML zh:VRML