 ' Huddersfield ' () is a large market town within the Metropolitan Borough of Kirklees, in West Yorkshire, England, 190 miles (306km) north of London, and 10.3 miles (16.48km) south of Bradford, the nearest city.Huddersfield is near the confluence of the River Colne and the River Holme. Located within the historic county boundaries of the West Riding of Yorkshire, it has a total resident population of 146,234. It is the largest urban area in the metropolitan borough of Kirklees and the administrative centre of the borough. The town is well known for its important role in the Industrial Revolution, the birthplace of Rugby League and for being the birthplace of the late British Prime Minister Harold Wilson.Huddersfield today is a town of higher education, the media and sports, being home to the Football League One football team Huddersfield Town F.C., founded in 1908, and the Rugby League team, currently titled Huddersfield Giants, founded in 1895. The town is home to the University of Huddersfield and sixth form Greenhead College.Huddersfield is a town of victorian architecture. Huddersfield railway station is a Grade I listed building and was described by John Betjeman as 'the most splendid station facade in England' second only to St Pancras, London. The station stands in St George's Square, and has been given a £1 million make over and subsequently won the Europa Nostra award for European architecture.HistoryEarly historyThere has been a settlement in the vicinity for over 4,000 years.Kirklees Council Website Castle Hill The remains of a Roman fort were unearthed in the middle of the 18th century at Slack near Outlane, just west of the town.Huddersfield One - Tolson Museum Booklets Castle Hill, a major landmark of the town, was also used as an Iron Age hill fort. Huddersfield itself was noted in the 1086 Domesday Book as a village known as Oderesfelt also as Odresfeld ..]]Huddersfield has been known as a Market town since Saxon times.Industrial RevolutionHuddersfield was a centre of civil unrest during the Industrial Revolution. In a period where Europe was experiencing frequent wars, where trade had slumped and the crops had failed, many local weavers faced losing their means of livelihood due to the introduction of new machinery, which would have condemned them to poverty or even starvation. The Luddites began destroying mills and machinery in response; one of the most notorious attacks was on Cartwright - a Huddersfield mill-owner, who had a reputation for cruelty - and his Rawfords Mill. In his book Rebels Against the Future, Kirkpatrick Sale describes how a large army platoon was stationed at Huddersfield to deal with Luddites; at its peak, there were around a thousand soldiers in Huddersfield and only ten thousand civilians. In response, the Luddites began to focus their attacks on nearby towns and villages, which were less well-protected; the largest act of damage that they ever did was the complete destruction of Foster's Mill at Horbury - a village, which is about ten miles (16 km) east of Huddersfield. (Sale, p.120) The government campaign that eventually crushed the movement was provoked by a murder that took place in Huddersfield. William Horsfall, a mill-owner and a passionate prosecutor of Luddites, was killed in 1812. Although the movement faded out afterwards, Parliament began to increase welfare provision for those out of work, and to introduce regulations to improve conditions in the mills.Political historyHuddersfield had a strong liberal tradition up to the 1950s and this is still reflected in the large number of liberal social clubs in the town. The current Member of Parliament (MP) for the Huddersfield constituency is Barry Sheerman, a member of the Labour party. Kirklees Council was the first in the UK to have a Green Party councillor: Nicholas Harvey who lived in Taylor Hill and represented the Newsome Ward. Nick, a former employee at Huddersfield Rail station, was instrumental in the creation of the protest train against the intended closure of the Settle to Carlisle rail line. He declined to stand for a second term and no longer lives in Huddersfield. He is now a resident of Filey where he is now busy with his own 'Green' railway train.The far-left is well represented in Huddersfield (considering its size), with Revolution, Socialist Workers Party and Socialist Party of England and Wales all having active groups which are involved in campaigns such as Stop the War, Save Huddersfield NHS, Huddersfield Anti-Academies Alliance and Unique Care Workers Support Group, as well as individual members of Workers Power (involved in Revolution and their group in Leeds), the International Socialist Group and Communist Party of Britain. There is also a local leftist fanzine called Rearguard Action which appears regularly and has a group of supporters and contributors.Two Prime ministers have spent part of their childhood in Huddersfield, Harold Wilson and Herbert Asquith. Wilson is commemorated by a statue in front of the Railway Station. There is no memorial to Asquith's briefer connection with the town.GovernanceCivic history]] Huddersfield was incorporated as a municipal borough within the ancient West Riding of Yorkshire in 1868. The borough comprised the parishes of Almondbury, Dalton, Huddersfield, Lindley-cum-Quarmby and Lockwood. When the West Riding County Council was formed in 1889, Huddersfield became a county borough, exempt from county council control. Huddersfield expanded in 1937, including parts of the Golcar, Linthwaite, and South Crosland urban districts. The county borough was abolished in 1974 and its former area was combined with that of other districts to form the Metropolitan Borough of Kirklees in West Yorkshire.Attempts by the local council to gain support for city status were rejected by the town's population in an unofficial referendum held by the local newspaper, the Huddersfield Daily Examiner. The council did not apply for that status in either the 2000 or 2002 competitions. City status is given to districts, so it would have been Kirklees rather than Huddersfield that would have been declared a city.According to the United Kingdom Census 2001 the population of the Huddersfield urban sub-area of the West Yorkshire Urban Area was 146,234, and the population of the former area of the county borough was 121,620. The wider South Kirklees area had a population of 216,011.IndustryHuddersfield is still a manufacturing town, despite the fact that the university is the largest employer. Historically the town produced textiles. The number of people who work in textiles has declined, but those companies which survive produce large quantities of woollen products with little labour. The town is home to textile, chemical and engineering companies; including Cummins Turbo Technologies (turbocharger manufacturers), C & J Antich (textiles), Syngenta AG (agro-chemicals), James Crowther (textiles), Sellers (Textile Machinery), as well as large number of niche manufacturers.GeographyDivisions and suburbsAfter boundary changes in 2004, Huddersfield now covers eight of the twenty-three electoral wards for Kirklees Council. Neighbouring wards in the Colne Valley, Holme Valley, and Kirkburton are often considered to be part of Huddersfield though they are predominantly semi-rural. Huddersfield town centre is located within the Newsome ward. The eight wards that make up Huddersfield proper, with their populations, areas and constituent suburbs are:WardPopulationArea (km²)Population density (/km²)Places coveredAlmondbury&lt;/ref&gt;ReligionHuddersfield is slightly above the English average for those who have no religion and also for the number of Muslims. Conversely, it is below average for its number of Christians.There are a number of churches, mosques and temples covering a wide spectrum of religions in the Huddersfield area. These include the established Christian denominations:- Church of England Anglicanism, Baptist, Methodism, Presbyterianism and the Roman Catholic Church. Plus increasingly religions of other countries:- Buddhism, Hinduism, Islam, Jehovah's Witnesses, Mormon and Sikhism.DenominationPopulationPercentageComparative percentage for EnglandChristian77,84364.071.7Buddhist1330.10.3Hindu5770.51.1Jewish700.10.5Muslim12,14710.03.0Sikh2,2501.90.6Other religions3410.30.3No religion18,69415.414.8Religion not stated9,6047.97.7Landmarks and architectureHuddersfield is notable for its abundance of fine Victorian architecture. It has the third highest number of listed buildings of any town or city in the UK. The most conspicuous landmark in the Huddersfield area is Victoria Tower on Castle Hill. Overlooking the town, the tower was constructed to mark Queen Victoria's 60th Jubilee Year. A picture of the Victoria Tower features on the New Zealand wine Castle Hill.The colonnaded Huddersfield railway station in St George's Square was once described as 'a stately home with trains in it', and by Sir Nikolaus Pevsner as 'one of the best early railway stations in England'. A bronze statue of Huddersfield-born Sir Harold Wilson, Prime Minister 1964-1970 and 1974-1976 stands before the entrance in St George's Square.The Huddersfield parish church (St. Peters Church) was constructed in 1838 and is adjacent to the town centre, on Byram Street, near the Pack Horse Centre.The Pack Horse Centre is a covered pedestrianised shopping area constructed over the former cobblestoned street known as the Pack Horse Walk, named in memory of the beasts of burden, Pack horses which ferried merchandise over the Pennines before the Standedge Tunnels were built. This pedestrian-only link passes from Kirkgate, across King Street and along Victoria Lane, by the Shambles, to the Piazza and the distinctive Market Hall at Queensgate, which was built to replace the old Shambles Market Hall in the early 1970s. Next to the Piazza is the Victorian Town Hall and the 1930s Public Library.A distinctive Art Nouveau clock tower in the village of Lindley (a suburb to the west of the town) was constructed in 1902 by a local mill-owner, so that his workers would have no excuse to be late for work.TransportRoadHuddersfield is well connected to the national motorway network via the M1 and M62 motorways. The M1 passes near the eastern fringes of the town about ten miles (16 km) away. The M62 comes much nearer (about 2½ miles away) and Huddersfield is served by three junctions: Mount (A640, J23 - limited access), Ainley Top (A629, J24) and between Brighouse and Cooper Bridge (A644, J25).The Huddersfield Corporation built an inner ring road (part of the A62) in the 1970s. The area within this ring road has come to define the central business district of the town. The ring road is effective in relieving traffic congestion in the town centre where many roads are now pedestrianised.RailHuddersfield railway station enjoys a comprehensive local and regional rail service. However, there are no Intercity services or a direct service to London, with passengers having to change at either Leeds or Wakefield Westgate. Many services are subsidised by the local-government public transport coordinator, Metro. A frequent express service operates to the nearby principal cities of Leeds and Manchester and a regular service to Newcastle upon Tyne, Sunderland, Darlington, Middlesbrough, Scarborough, York, Hull, Manchester Airport and Liverpool. This is operated by First TransPennine Express. There are also local stopping services operated by Northern Rail which link Huddersfield with Leeds, Dewsbury, Bradford, Halifax, Brighouse, Wakefield, Barnsley and Sheffield.BusHuddersfield Bus Station was opened by the Mayor, Councillor Mernagh on (26 March 1974), despite the fact that it had not actually been completed. Huddersfield One - Huddersfield History since 1940 It is the busiest bus station in West Yorkshire with a daily footfall of almost 35,000. The majority of bus services pass through the bus station. Many services are subsidised by Metro, who are also responsible for the co-ordination, planning and timetabling of services throughout West Yorkshire.Huddersfield's bus operators reflect the national situation; local subsidiaries of three dominant national operators provide most of the services in the area: First Calderdale &amp; Huddersfield who provide most local services across Huddersfield with some services running outside the Kirklees area with destinations including Halifax, Bradford, Brighouse, Oldham and Manchester. Arriva Yorkshire, who provide frequent services along Leeds Road to Dewsbury and Leeds, and Stagecoach Yorkshire through its recently-acquired subsidiary, Yorkshire Traction, who provide almost all services in the south east of the town. Other smaller operators include locally based operators Teamdeck, trading under the name of K-Line' and Stotts Coaches. Centrebus Holdings purchased Teamdeck in May 2008, along with Stagecoach Yorkshire's Huddersfield depot.Huddersfield Examiner report of bus take overs in May 2008In November 2006, a zero-fare town centre bus service, known as Free Town Bus, was launched. Buses run every ten minutes from 7.30am (from the train station) to 7.00 pm Monday to Friday and from 8.30am to 5.30pm on Saturday. Stops on the route include the bus station, University of Huddersfield, Kingsgate, and the indoor market. The service is run by K-Line in partnership with Kirklees Council and Metro.CanalThe Huddersfield Broad Canal, originally the Sir John Ramsden Canal, and the Huddersfield Narrow Canal (both navigable by narrowboat and the former by wider craft also) wind around the south side of the town. To the rear of the YMCA in the Turnbridge section there is an electrically operated road bridge, which is still in use, to raise the road and allow boat traffic to pass. This bridge was originally opened by use of a windlass system.SportsRugby FootballThe splitRugby was first recorded in the town in 1848 and the Huddersfield Athletic Club, the direct progenitors of the current Huddersfield Giants, formed in 1864, playing their first rugby game in 1866. It was in Huddersfield on (29 August 1895) that 22 northern clubs held a meeting in the George Hotel and voted to secede from the Rugby Football Union to set up their own Northern Rugby Football Union. In 1922 this became the Rugby Football League.The Rugby League Heritage Centre is located in the basement of the George Hotel.Rugby league Following the split of 1895 Huddersfield became a focus for rugby league and is currently represented by the Huddersfield Giants in the Superleague, and by Huddersfield Underbank Rangers in National League 3. The Huddersfield Giants (under their original name of Huddersfield Rugby League Club) have won the Rugby League Championship seven times, most recently in 1961-62, and the Challenge Cup six times, the last success being in 1952-53.Rugby unionAfter 1895 rugby in the Huddersfield area was played exclusively under the auspices of the Northern Rugby Football Union until 1909 when Huddersfield Old Boys were formed to play under rugby union rules, nomadically playing at five grounds until buying farmland at Waterloo in 1919 and, in 1946, retitling the club as Huddersfield RUFC.In 1996 the Waterloo junior grounds were sold and a 26 acre, former Bass Brewery estate, at Lockwood Park was purchased for construction of a replacement. With the assistance of a matching £2 million grant from Sport England, the club has transformed the site into a major sports complex, conference centre and business park.HockeyHuddersfield has a number of field hockey teams, many of which train at the Lockwood Park sports complex on the all weather pitch.Association football Huddersfield Town FC is the town's senior association football team, founded in 1908, and currently playing in Coca-Cola League One.In 1921-22 Huddersfield won the FA Cup and between 1923-26 they became the first club to win the League Championship three times in a row, an achievement matched only by three other teams. The club left its ground on Leeds Road in 1994 and now shares the Galpharm Stadium with the Huddersfield Giants rugby league team.Notable ex-players include Scottish international Denis Law, Ray Wilson, a World Cup winner with England in 1966 and Trevor Cherry, England international. Herbert Chapman, Bill Shankly and Neil Warnock are notable former Huddersfield Town managers.MotorsportNotable local people include James Whitham, former 'British Superbike Champion', and former British Stock Car Association (BriSCA) Formula 1 driver, Kev Smith. Motorcycle speedway racing was staged in Huddersfield in the UK pioneer year of 1928. A venue in the town staged four or five meetings.ArtsMusicHuddersfield Choral Society, founded in 1836, claims to be the UK's leading choral society. Its history was chronicled in the book 'And The Glory'http://www.huddersfieldchoral.com/archives.htm, written to commemorate the Society's 150th anniversary in 2001—its title derived from a line in the Hallelujah Chorus featuring in Handel's landmark choral arrangement The Messiah. The author was a choir member for over 35 years.More recently, the town's other main claim to international musical renown is the annual Huddersfield Contemporary Music Festival. It is also home to the Huddersfield Philharmonic Orchestra and the Huddersfield Singers.On Christmas Day 1977, the Sex Pistols played their last two British shows, one of which was a matinee for the children of striking firefighters, at the then 'Ivanhoe's' nightclub venue, before embarking on the ill-fated US tour which saw them collapse into acrimony. In the early-mid 1990s, Flex, the seminal underground Jungle/Drum 'n' Bass record label, was founded in Huddersfield by the musician and future BBC Radio 1Xtra DJ, L Double. In 2000 another independent record label Chocolate Fireguard Records was founded in Huddersfield by singer Pat Fulgoni who also developed the 3 stage Community music event Timeless Festival held in the town's Ravensknowle Park, featuring a range of electronica, hip hop and rock music.There are a number of other annual local music festivals held within the town and surrounding area, examples being the Marsden Jazz Festival, Mrs Sunderland, Janet Beaumont, the Holmfirth Festivals, and the Haydn Wood (Linthwaite). The Haydn Wood and Mrs Sunderland events focus on musical and oratorial performance by the town's younger generations. There are however many other local choirs, both youth and adult, a noted example of the latter being the Honley Male voice choir.http://www.honleymvc.co.uk&lt;/ref&gt;Home-grown musical talent of all kinds is complemented by the student intake to the University of Huddersfield's music department.Further fame was added to the musical history of Huddersfield by the inclusion of the song "The Sheriff of Huddersfield" by the heavy metal band Iron Maiden on the B-side to their 1986 single "Wasted Years". Written about their co-manager Rod Smallwood, leaving his home town of Huddersfield and struggling to settle into life in LA.Huddersfield is home to Thrash metal band Evile. Dance rock outfit Kava Kava (band) and the birthplace of the synthpop musician Billy Currie of (Ultravox and Visage) fame and the hard rock bassist John McCoy who played with (Neo and Gillan).Film and televisual artsVarious long-running television series have been filmed in and around Huddersfield. These include Last of the Summer Wine, which is usually associated with Holmfirth, but uses various locations in both the Holme and Colne valley's; Where the Heart Is, was filmed in the Colne valley around Slaithwaite and finished filming in 2006; Wokenwell, also shot on location in the Colne valley in and around Marsden; and The League of Gentlemen, that also makes extensive use of locations around Marsden.Playing lower-key roles in television production with reputations based on their expert knowledge of their subjects, Huddersfield can claim links with Time Team by way of osteo-archaeologist Alice Roberts and Life on Earth through local teacher Dr Jeff Carr's encyclopaedic knowledge of polar bears.Visual artsKirklees council's cultural services also ensure that the art gallery, which occupies the top floor of the library on Princess Alexandra Walk, offers a balanced schedule, all year round, which showcases local painters and photographers alongside commissioned artists' displays.Cultural eventsHuddersfield Festival of LightThis 'Free festival' takes place annually in November, usually in the town centre adjacent to the railway station. Each year a performance is put on by a different theatre company. The event finale is a firework display. The 2007 show was performed by French company Plasticiens Volants, which saw large inflatable sea creatures paraded through the streets as they told their story of 'Pearl'.Huddersfield Caribbean CarnivalThe carnival, usually in mid July begins with a procession from the Hudawi Cultural Centre in the suburb of Hillhouse, through the town centre to Greenhead Park where troupes display their costumes on stage. West Indian food, fairground rides and various stalls and attractions are available to try. A 'young blud' stage presents Hip Hop, UK garage, RnB and bassline.Huddersfield Carnival WebsiteKirklees Asian MelaThe mela usually follows on the day after the Caribbean carnival, attractions include Asian displays on the stage including Indian/Pakistani dancing, Bhangra and Asian Garage music. Stalls sell an array of Asian foods, Henna designs, jewellery and colourful Sari's. It is usually held in Greenhead Park.The Pink PicnicEach year since 1986 Huddersfield gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgendered community have embarked on a summer celebration and picnic. The event now attracts thousands from miles around and is held as a gay pride event at Castle Hill.Present dayShopping and entertainmentHuddersfield has a large and diverse retail shopping area - mostly enclosed within the town's ring road - compared with other towns of its size. There are three adjacent shopping schemes: Kingsgate, the Packhorse Precinct and the Piazza. The Piazza offers an outdoor shopping mall bordering the Public library, with a partially grassed area, used for relaxation and various events held throughout the year such as entertainment and International Markets. Through the adjacent Market Arcade there is a covered market hall, which has listed building status, due in part to its distinctive roof formed by hyperbolic paraboloids. It is also adjacent to the town hall and public library (see Historical landmarks above). An open market is located next to the Tesco store, on the opposite side of the town centre. Virtual Huddersfield features photographs of nearly 2000 local shops as well as videos of local events, aerial views and live webcams.The town centre is home to several national high street retailers and Chain stores including Woolworth's, House of Fraser, Wilkinsons, Clinton Cards, WH Smith, JD Sports, JJB Sports, HMV, GAME, Gamestation. Fast food outlets include Subway, McDonald's, KFC, Burger King, Wimpy and Pizza Hut. High-street clothing and fashion retail outlets such as British Home Stores, Marks &amp; Spencer, River Island, Topman and Next. Huddersfield has four major supermarket outlets, one Morrisons, two Sainsbury's, one Tesco (excluding the Tesco Expresses found in Marsh and Dalton). Additional smaller supermarkets include: one Asda, one Netto and two Lidl stores. There is also a wide variety of small specialist independent shops, many of them located in the three-storey Byram Arcade.The Lawrence Batley Theatre, opened in 1994, housed in what was once the largest Wesleyan Chapel in the world, and now presents dance, drama, comedy, music and exhibitions. Among other things, it acts as the base for Full Body And The Voice, a company focusing on the integration of disabled people into mainstream theatre.The Galpharm Stadium (formerly the Alfred McAlpine Stadium), is a multi-use sports stadium and provides many sporting activities including a gym, swimming pool, spa and several types of sporting classes. The stadium is home to the local Rugby League team Huddersfield Giants and the Huddersfield Town football team. Adjacent to the stadium is an Odeon cinema, Huddersfield's only major cinema.NightlifeHuddersfield has a good selection of pubs, restaurants and night clubs. One of the venues, Tokyo, is located in the former Huddersfield County Court, which is a 19th century Grade II listed building that had also been used as a Squash club.EducationAs well as a complete range of primary and secondary schools, which cover compulsory and sixth form education for the town's suburbs, Huddersfield is the home to two dedicated sixth form colleges, Huddersfield New College located at Salendine Nook, and Greenhead College located west of the town centre. Huddersfield Grammar School is the only independent school in Huddersfield to offer secondary education, though it does not offer sixth form education. The town centre has one general further education college, Kirklees College which was formed following the merger of Dewsbury College and Huddersfield Technical College. Huddersfield has one establishment of higher education in the University of Huddersfield. The current Chancellor of the University is the actor Patrick Stewart who comes from Mirfield.HospitalsHuddersfield has one main hospital, the Huddersfield Royal Infirmary situated in Lindley, and the smaller St Luke's Hospital at Crosland Moor, formerly a workhouse for the poor before its conversion to a maternity hospital, which currently provides geriatric and psychiatric care. Plus various Physiological testing facilities for the medical Consultants outpatient clinics at the Royal Infirmary, such as Gamma-Irradiation Scanning, Chest X-ray services, Electromyography and Nerve conduction tests. Kirkwood Hospice provides care for the terminally ill, and is dependent on private donations and charitable gifts. Greenhead's Princess Royal Hospital originally provided Huddersfield with its maternity facilities until the risks of not being able to get an ambulance to A&amp;E in the event of complications were judged to outweigh the benefits of specialist service provision. It now functions as a day clinic, family planning consultation centre and GUM Clinic.A decision to move most of the maternity services provided by the Calderdale &amp; Huddersfield NHS Foundation Trust to the Calderdale Royal Hospital changed those facilities in 2007, despite strong opposition from some of the local population. The campaign was led by Save Huddersfield NHS which elected a councillor, Dr Jackie Grunsell in the Crosland Moor ward. St Lukes Hospital is also scheduled to close within the next few years and the land sold for private housing.Future developmentsHuddersfield has seen many new development projects proposed and approved. Some of the schemes include:St George's Quarter scheme, a £50M scheme which includes a 153-bed luxury hotel, retail units, offices, flats and a landscaped public areaQueensgate Revival, a £200M scheme centred on the Piazza, Public Library and Queensgate Market HallThe Waterfront Quarter, a £175M scheme to regenerate land at Chapel HillHuddersfield Media Centre expansionThe Leeds Road corridor, a new £100M economic zoneList of Civic honours and freedomsThirty four people and one military infantry regiment have been granted the Freedom of Huddersfield, between 1889 and 1973.http://www.kirklees.gov.uk/you-kmc/mayor/mayormain.shtml Source information supplied by Sally Greenwood at the Mayors Office (mayors.office@kirklees.gov.uk)Wright Mellor JP DL - (25 September 1889)Henry Frederick Beaumont JP DL - (28 August 1894)Lt Col Sir Albert Kaye Rollit LLD DLC LittD JP DL - (28 August 1894)James Nield Sykes JP - (12 March 1895)Joseph Woodhead JP - (28 October 1898)Sir Joseph Crosland Knt JP DL - (28 October 1898)Major Charles Brook - (23 May 1901)Major Harold Wilson - (23 May 1901)Sir Thomas Brooke Bart JP DL - (25 July 1906)Rev Robert Bruce MA DD - (25 July 1906)William Brooke JP - (15 October 1913)John Sykes JP - (15 October 1913)William Henry Jessop JP - (18 September 1918)Earnest Woodhead MA JP - (18 September 1918)George Thomson JP - (18 September 1918)Benjamin Broadbent CBE MA JP - (18 September 1918)John Arthur Brooke MA JP - (18 September 1918)James Edward Willans JP - (18 September 1918)Admiral of the Fleet Earl Beatty GCB OM GCVO DSO - (24 July 1920)The Rt Hon Herbert Henry Asquith Earl of Oxford and Asquith, and Viscount Asquith - (6 November 1925)Sir William Pick Raynor Knt JP - (17 December 1926)Wilfrid Dawson JP - (25 July 1934)Rowland Mitchell JP - (25 July 1934)James Albert Woolven JP Chevalier de la Legion d’Honneur - (25 July 1934)Sir Bernard Law Montgomery Field-Marshal GCB DSO - (26 October 1945)Joseph Barlow JP - (23 June 1949)Duke of Wellington's Regiment (West Riding) - (2 July 1952)Sidney Kaye LLB - (19 November 1957)Alderman Arthur Gardiner OBE JP - (11 October 1960)Alderman Harry Andrew Bennie Gray CBE JP - (11 October 1960)Sir Malcolm Sargent MusD(Dunelm) MusD(Oxon)(Hons) LLD(Liverpool) Hon RAM Hon FRCO FRCM FRSA - (13 October 1961)The Rt Hon Harold Wilson OBE MP Prime Minister and First Lord of the Treasury - (1 March 1968)Alderman Douglas Graham CBE - (5 March 1973)Alderman Reginald Harmley MBE JP - (5 March 1973)Alderman Clifford Stephenson - (5 March 1973)On (2 July 1952), in recognition of historic ties and links with The Duke of Wellington's Regiment (West Riding), The Huddersfield County Borough had conferred on the regiment the Freedom of the Town. This gave the regiment the right to march through the town with 'flags flying, bands playing and bayonets fixed'. Many of the town and district's male residents had served in the regiment during its long history. This right to march was technically lost when the County Borough itself was merged with Dewsbury to form Kirklees Metropolitan Borough Council though, unofficially, continued as on (25 March 1979), Kirklees Metropolitan Borough Council gave the Freedom of Kirklees to the 3rd battalion of the Yorkshire Volunteers. The 3rd Battalion was the Duke of Wellington's Territorial Army unit.However when the 'Dukes' were amalgamated with the Prince of Wales's Own Regiment of Yorkshire and the Green Howards' to form the Yorkshire Regiment on the (6 June 2006). The right to march was finally ended as the award did not give the right, for the freedom to march, to be passed on to any heirs or successors. The majority of the Yorkshire Regiment is now composed of soldiers from the north and eastern areas of Yorkshire. The Yorkshire Regiment has requested the right to march to be transferred to them. However, the county Borough no longer exists and so there is no authority to do so. The freedom given by Kirklees to the 3rd battalion of the Yorkshire Volunteers did not permit any transfer to heirs or successors and effectively that freedom also ceased when the battalion was amalgamated into the East and West Riding Regiment. The East and West Riding Regiment ceased to exist on (6 June 2006), having been merged into the Yorkshire Regiment as its 4th Battalion.Notable peoplePrime Minister of the United Kingdom 1964-1970 1974-1976]] A number of national and internationally famous people originate from Huddersfield. They cover a range of politicians, sports personalities, athletes, entertainers, business people, scientists and writers of various styles. Some people have also become known through their association with Huddersfield, though were not born there. These include the actor Patrick Stewart, who was born in Mirfield and the inventor Wilf Lunn, who was born in Brighouse.The most widely notable of those born in Huddersfield include (in alphabetical order by surname):- Simon Armitage who is both a poet and an author. Lawrence Batley a British business entrepreneur. Andy Booth a footballer for the local football club:- Huddersfield Town. David Borrow a Member of Parliament for South Ribble. Sir David Brown OBE a very successful British businessman. Roy Castle OBE who was a dancer and entertainer and later a TV presenter. Lord James Hanson was another British and international businessman mainly known for his association with the transport industry. Sir Harold Percival Himsworth was a scientist. George Herbert Hirst was an English test cricketer. Nina Hossain is a Television broadcaster. Derek Ibbotson was an Olympic athlete in the track events. A tower block of social housing accommodation, close to the town's ring road, was named after him Gorden Kaye is mostly known for his comedy acting. Anita Lonsbrough was an Olympic swimmer and commentator. Like Derek Ibbotson a tower block of social housing accommodation was named after her. Zöe Lucker is an actress, known for playing Tanya Turner in the ITV1 Drama Footballers' Wives. Another Huddersfield born celebrity was the great actor of British and American films, James Mason. Wilfred Rhodes is another English test cricketer. John Whitaker MBE has a local stables and is an Olympic equestrian. Whilst probably the most famous of all is Harold Wilson KG OBE who was twice the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom from, 1964 to 1970 and again from 1974 to 1976.Other well known personalities can be located in the Category:People from Huddersfield.See alsoHaddersfield, Jamaica, locally referred to and named for Huddersfield'During the periods 1822 - 1832 the 33rd Regiment of Foot, recruited from West Yorkshire was stationed in Jamaica. At the end of the tour 142 men chose to remain in Jamaica, having married and raised families, some of which may have originated from Huddersfield, thereby originating the name. Over 560 officers and men died and were buried in Jamaica during this period, from endemic diseases. On 18 June 1853 the regiment formally became known as "The 33rd (or The Duke of Wellington's) Regiment". The regiment's second battalion was again posted to Jamaica (Newcastle Camp) from (18 March 1891) to (10 April 1893). Kirklees IncineratorWikitravel - HuddersfieldReferencesFurther readingE.A. Hilary Haigh ed. (1992) Huddersfield: A Most Handsome Town - Aspects of the History and Culture of a West Yorkshire Town. Kirklees MC, Huddersfield, pp704.External linksBBC Voices - Audio recording Huddersfield residents who have roots in Jamaica talk about storytelling traditions and the generation language gap.Aerial views of the town centre,April 2007About HuddersfieldHuddersfield Historywww.geograph.co.uk : photos of Huddersfield and surrounding areaCategory:Geography of Huddersfield Category:Huddersfield Category:Kirklees Category:Towns and cities with limited zero-fare transport Category:Towns in West Yorkshire Category:Market towns in England Category:Articles including recorded pronunciations (UK English)de:Huddersfield es:Huddersfield eo:Huddersfield fr:Huddersfield id:Huddersfield it:Huddersfield lt:Hadersfildas nl:Huddersfield no:Huddersfield nn:Huddersfield pl:Huddersfield pt:Huddersfield ro:Huddersfield simple:Huddersfield fi:Huddersfield sv:Huddersfield zh:哈德斯菲爾德