 Mosque of the Ahmadiyya Muslim Community, London]]  Ahmadiyya ( Ahmadiyya), is a movement that arose out of mainstream Islam towards the end of the 19th century. Originating with the life and teachings of Mirza Ghulam Ahmad (1835-1908) from Qadian, in Punjab, India, it later split into two groups in 1914 that continue as separate groups to date. Mirza Ghulam Ahmad was an important religious figure who claimed to have fulfilled the prophecies about the world reformer of the end times who was to herald the Eschaton as predicted in the traditions of various World religions, the Mujaddid (divine reformer) of the 14th Islamic century, the promised Messiah (“Second Coming of Christ”) and Mahdi.“The Fourteenth-Century's Reformer / Mujaddid”, from the “Call of Islam”, by Maulana Muhammad AliClaims of Hadhrat Ahmad, Chapter TwoReflection of all the ProphetsFuture of Revelation, Part 7The Removal of a MisunderstandingAhmadis consider themselves Muslims and claim to practice the Islam that was taught and practiced by Muhammad and his companions. Mirza Ghulam Ahmad founded the movement in 1889 and termed it the Ahmadiyya Muslim Jamaat (community) envisioning it to be a revitalization of Islam.The original Ahmadiyya Muslim Jamaat split into two separate groups“The Split in the Ahmadiyya Movement” by Maulana Muhammad Ali after the death of Hakim Noor-ud-Din the first successor of Ghulam Ahmad. They are known respectively as the Ahmadiyya Muslim Community and the smaller Lahore Ahmadiyya Movement for the Propagation of Islam (Ahmadiyya Anjuman Ishaat-i-Islam). These groups vary in their specific interpretations of Ahmad's teachings and claims. They also differ in their views on who should have succeeded Mirza Ghulam Ahmad, and how such a successor should be chosen.&quot;Refutation of Maulvi Muhammad Ali's Account of Ahmadiyya Dissensions&quot;The larger faction of the Ahmadiyya Movement, known as the Ahmadiyya Muslim Community is established in 190 countries of the world. The International Headquarters of the Ahmadiyya Muslim Community is currently in London within England on Gressenhall Rd. In addition, they have created a place called ‘Islamabad’ in Tilford, Surrey, the London Mosque and also Western Europe’s largest mosque, the Baitul Futuh “House of Victories” in Morden, south-west London.The smaller faction, known as the Lahore Ahmadiyya Movement is established in 17 countries of the world and out of these 17 countries, is largely apparent in Germany, Australia and Pakistan. The International Headquarters of the Lahore Ahmadiyya Movement is in the town of Lahore, Pakistan in which the Lahore Movement originated. Within Lahore, Pakistan, are the ‘Ahmadiyya Buildings Lahore’ which act as the international administrative headquarters for the Lahore Ahmadiyya Movement.The Ahmadiyya views on certain beliefs in Islam have been controversial to mainstream Muslims since the Movement’s birth. The majority of Muslims have not accepted Mirza Ghulam Ahmad’s claims and do not consider Ahmadis to be Muslims, citing in particular the Ahmadiyya viewpoint on the death and return of Jesus and the Ahmadiyya concept of Jihad and the Ahmadiyya Muslim Community view on the finality of Muhammad with particular reference to interpretation of verse 33:40 of the Qur'an. The members of the Lahore Ahmadiyya Movement are not subject to such criticism as they do not believe in Mirza Ghulam Ahmad as a prophet and are more close to traditional mainstream Islam. Ahmadis (particularly the members of the International Ahmadiyya Muslim Community) argue that their beliefs are in accordance with Islam, and using arguments from the Qur'an, Hadith and opinion of Islamic jurists and theologians, challenge the contention of the groups calling them non-Muslims.HistoryThe Ahmadiyya movement claims to represent the latter day renaissance of the religion of Islam. At the end of the 19th century, Mirza Ghulam Ahmad of Qadian proclaimed himself to be the "Reformer of the age" (Mujaddid), Promised Messiah, Mahdi of the age. (Note that the two sub-sects of the Ahmadiyya interpret this last claim very differently). He claimed to have fulfilled the prophecy of the return of Jesus. He and his followers claimed that his advent was foretold by Muhammad, the prophet of Islam, and also by many other religious scriptures of the world. In 1889, Mirza Ghulam Ahmad laid down the foundation of his community, which was later given the name of "Ahmadiyya Muslim Jama'at". Since its inception, the Ahmadiyya Muslim Jama'at's objective has been the revival of Islam. Soon after the death of the first Caliph, the movement split into two sects over the question of the Finality of Prophethood. The Lahore Ahmadiyya Movement affirmed the traditional Islamic interpretation that there could be no new prophet after Muhammad and viewed itself as a reform movement within the broader Ummah."Ahmadiyya", Encyclopaedia Britannica Online, http://www.britannica.com/ebc/article-9354774?query=jesus%20islam&amp;ct= The International Ahmadiyya Muslim Community, however, claimed that Mirza Ghulam Ahmad had indeed been a prophet (albeit a "non-law-bearing" one) and that mainstream Muslims who rejected his message were guilty of disbelief. The question of “Khilafat” was also an issue in the split of the Ahmadiyya movement. The Lahore Ahmadiyya Movement believes that an "Anjuman" (body of selected people) should be in charge of the Jamaat. The International Ahmadiyya Muslim Community, however, believes that Caliphs are appointed by God through voting are in charge of the Jamaat.Some of the first people to convert to the Ahmadiyya movement were highly educated people from secular and religious circles. These included many doctors e.g. Dr. Syed Muhammad Hussain, civil servants like Sir Muhammad Zafrulla Khan and also from the military, such as Ali Gouhar of the British-Indian Army."The British Archives,http://www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/documentsonline/details-result.asp?queryType=1&amp;resultcount=1&amp;Edoc_Id=1106158 The International Ahmadiyya Muslim Community has established offices in 190 countries and claims to have a population exceeding tens of millions."The Ahmadiyya Movement in Islam An Overview", Al Islam, The official website of the International Ahmadiyya Muslim Community, http://www.alislam.org/introduction/index.html The Lahore Ahmadiyya Movement has branches in 17 countries.World Wide Branches of AAIIL Lahore Ahmadiyya Movement There is no reliable information available regarding the population numbers of the Lahore Ahmadiyya Movement.Overseas Ahmadiyya missionary activities started as early as 1920's. For many modern nations of the world, the Ahmadiyya movement was their first contact with the proclaimants from the Muslim world.http://ethesis.helsinki.fi/julkaisut/hum/aasia/vk/racius/themulti.pdf The Multiple Nature of the Islamic Da'wa, Egdunas Racius Page 158-160. University of Helsinki Ahmadiyya movement is considered by some historians http://books.google.com/books?vid=ISBN0521840953&amp;id=Kzm4-D1-ODQC&amp;pg=RA1-PA253&amp;lpg=RA1-PA253&amp;dq=Ahmadiyya&amp;sig=MASRv579aOkQPr6X1XdzYbqllAk Black Crescent: the experience and legacy of African Muslims in the Americas By Michael Angelo Gomez, Pages 254-256 as one of the precursors to the African-American Civil Rights Movement in America. According to some experts,http://books.google.com/books?vid=ISBN0791423972&amp;id=og_u0Re1uwUC&amp;pg=PA280&amp;lpg=PA280&amp;dq=Ahmadiyya&amp;sig=hkO32Dn7ksOZ0StFHX6kmRc2-Lk America's Alternative Religions By Timothy Miller, Page 280 Ahmadiyya were “arguably the most influential community in African-American Islam” until the 1950s, when Nation of Islam gained support among black communities. Many notable jazz musicians converted to Ahmadiyya Islam. The influence of Ahmadiyya movement was later reduced by the splits among the community caused by Nation of Islam as well as the Sunni scholars during the 1950s.BeliefsAhmadiyya beliefs do not conflict those of Islam in general, including belief in the prophethood of Muhammad, reverence for historical prophets, belief in a single creator God (strong monotheism). They accept the Qur'an as their holy text, face the Kaaba during prayer, accept the authority of Hadiths (reported sayings of and stories about Muhammad) and practice the Sunnah.Distinct Ahmadiyya beliefsAlthough the central values of Islam (prayer, charity, fasting, etc.) and the six articles of belief are shared by Muslims and Ahmadis,Islam distinct Ahmadiyya beliefs include the following:That the prophecies concerning the second coming of Jesus were metaphorical in nature and not literal and that Mirza Ghulam Ahmad fulfilled in his person these prophecies and the second advent of Jesus, that he was the promised Mahdi and Messiah.http://www.ahmadiyya.org/books/f-ahm-mv/ch4.htm Mahdi and Messiah, Chapter 4, "The Founder of the Ahmadiyya Movementby Maulana Muhammad Ali"The continuation of divine revelation. Although the Qur'an is final message of God for mankind He is still able to communicate with his chosen individuals in the same way as he is believed always to have done. All of God's attributes are eternal.That Jesus, contrary to mainstream Islamic belief, was crucified and survived the four hours on the cross. He was later revived from a swoon in the tomb.http://www.alislam.org/topics/jesus/index.php Jesus, a Humble Prophet of God Ahmadis believe that Jesus died in Kashmir of old age whilst seeking the Lost Tribes of Israel."Death of Jesus", by Shahid Aziz, Bulletin October 2001, Ahmadiyya Anjuman Ishaat Islam Lahore (UK), http://www.aaiil.org/uk/newsletters/2001/1001ukbulletin.pdf"Jesus Migrated to India", The Promised Mehdi and Messiah, by Dr. Aziz Ahmad Chaudhry, Islam International Publications Limited, http://www.alislam.org/library/books/promisedmessiah/index.htm?page=50#top Jesus' remains are believed to be entombed in Kashmir under the name Yuz Asaf. Ahmadis believe that Jesus foretold the coming of Muhammad after him, which Christians have misinterpreted.Muhammad in World Scriptures (Vol. 2):by Maulana Abdul Haq Vidyarthi, Advent of Holy Prophet Muhammad Foretold in the Books of the Old Testament of Jews and the New Testament of Christians http://aaiil.org/text/books/others/abdulhaqvidyarthi/muhammadworldscriptures2/muhammadworldscriptures2.shtmlThat Jesus Christ did not bring a new religion or law i.e. was not a law-bearing prophet but was last in the line of Hebrew/Israelite prophets who appeared within the dispensation of Moses akin to that of David, Solomon, Jeremiah, Isaiah etc.That Jihad can only be used to protect against extreme religious persecution.Concept of Jihad and“True Meaning of Jihad”, Compiled by Imam Kalamazad Mohammed; Published by the Muslim Literary Trust, Trinidad, http://www.aaiil.org/text/articles/others/truemeaningjihad.shtmlThat the “Messiah” and the “Imam Mahdi” are the same person, and that it is through his teachings, influence, his prayers and that of his followers that Islam will defeat the Anti-Christ or Dajjal in a period similar to the period of time it took for nascent Christianity to rise (300 years) and that the Dajjal's power will slowly melt away like the melting of snow, heralding the final victory of Islam and age of peace.That the history of religion from the time of the Biblical Adam is split into seven epochs or ages, parallel to the seven days of the week, with periods for light and darkness. That Mirza Ghulam Ahmad appeared as the Promised Messiah at the sixth epoch heralding the seventh and final age of the mankind,Lecture Sialkot&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; as a day in the estimation of God is like a thousand years of man's reckoning22. The Pilgrimage&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; (Quran:22:48). According to Ghulam Ahmad just as the sixth day of the week is reserved for Jumu'ah (congregational prayers) likewise his age is destined for a global gathering or assembly in which the world is to unite under one universal religion which according to him was Islam.The two Ahmadiyya groups have varying beliefs regarding the finality of the Prophethood of Muhammad. The International Ahmadiyya Muslim Community believes that Muhammad brought prophethood to perfection and was the last law-bearing prophet and the apex of man's spiritual evolution. New prophets can come but they must be subordinate to Muhammad and cannot exceed him in excellence nor alter his teaching or bring any new law or religion.“The Question of Finality of Prophethood”, The Promised Mehdi and Messiha, by Dr. Aziz Ahmad Chaudhry, Islam International Publications Limited, http://www.alislam.org/library/books/promisedmessiah/index.htm?page=37#top The Lahore Ahmadiyya Movement believes that Muhammad is the last of the prophets and no prophet, new or old, can come after him.“The Issue of Khatam-un-Nabiyyin”, Lahore Ahmadiyya Movement, http://aaiil.info/misconceptions/khatam/khatam.htmComparisonArticle of faithMainstream IslamLahore Ahmadiyya MovementInternational Ahmadiyya Muslim CommunityReturn of JesusDiffers, but most believe that at the “end of days” Jesus himself will descend from heaven in the flesh.“Islamic View of the Coming/Return of Jesus”, by Dr. Ahmad Shafaat, 2003, Islamic Perspectives, http://www.islamicperspectives.com/ReturnOfJesus.htmReferences to the second coming of Jesus among the Muslims are allegorical in that one was to be born and rise as a prophet within the dispensation of Muhammad who by virtue of his similarity, and affinity with Jesus and the similarity between the Jews of Jesus' time and the Muslims of the time of the promised one (The Mahdi) is called by the same name. The prophecy of the second coming was fulfilled in the person of Mirza Ghulam Ahmad“Hazrat Mirza Ghulam Ahmad Sahib of Qadian never Claimed Prophethood the light of his own writings”, The Lahore Ahmadiyya Movement, http://www.aaiil.org/text/acus/mga/mirzaghulamahmadnotprophet.shtmlReferences to the second coming of Jesus among the Muslims are allegorical in that one was to be born and rise as a prophet within the dispensation of Muhammad who by virtue of his similarity, and affinity with Jesus and the similarity between the Jews of Jesus' time and the Muslims of the time of the promised one (The Mahdi) is called by the same name. The physical coming of Jesus (an old Israelite prophet) would disqualify Muhammad as the final prophet. The prophecy of the second coming was fulfilled in the person of Mirza Ghulam Ahmad.“A Prophet Like Unto Moses”, The Promised Mehdi and Messiha, by Dr. Aziz Ahmad Chaudhry, Islam International Publications Limited, http://www.alislam.org/library/books/promisedmessiah/index.htm?page=63#topStatus ofMirza Ghulam AhmadDiffers, but often considered an apostate. Many mainstream Muslims believe that Mirza Ghulam Ahmad was one of the 30 false claimants to prophethood“Who Was the Impostor of Qadian? Decide for Yourself”, Inter-Islam.org, http://www.inter-islam.org/faith/qadian.htm#30%20Liars about whom the prophet Muhammad warned Muslims 1400 years ago.Mujaddid (Islamic Reformer) of the 14th Islamic century. The promised Mahdi and the second coming of Jesus. Referred to as a prophet in the metaphorical sense only (as other recognized Islamic saints and sufis are similarly referred to). Not a prophet in the technical meaning of the word."The Use of the Terms Nabi & Rasul For Non-prophets", The Lahore Ahmadiyya Movement, http://aaiil.info/misconceptions/nabirasul/nabirasul.htmA prophet (with all the qualities of a prophet like Jesus) but subordinate and deputy to the Prophet Muhammad. The Messiah, Imam Mehdi and Mujaddid of the 14th Islamic century and the second coming of Jesus."A World Reformer", The Promised Mehdi and Messiha, by Dr. Aziz Ahmad Chaudhry, Islam International Publications Limited, http://www.alislam.org/library/books/promisedmessiah/index.htm?page=11Who is a Muslim?Professing the Kalima required to become a Muslim. In Pakistan, Passport Application Form, Government of Pakistan, http://pakistan.gov.pk/forms/pdf/form_a_dip_1_(rev)_for_persons_above_12_years.pdf professing Mirza Ghulam Ahmad to be an apostate is a pre-requisite to be considered a Muslim.Anyone professing the Kalima is a Muslim and cannot be declared a non-Muslim by anyone else.“Who is a Muslim?”, Lahore Ahmadiyya Movement, http://aaiil.info/misconceptions/muslim/whois.htm"Tarjuman al-Quran" by Sayyid Abul Ala Maudoodi, issue for month of Jumadi al-Awwal, 1355 A.H., circa 1936, vol. viii, p. 5Anyone professing the Kalima cannot be declared a disbeliever by anyone else, provided he/she inlcudes Mirza Ghulam Ahmad as a prophet in the meaning of the Kalima which encompasses all prophets. Kalimat-ul-Fasal by Mirza Bashir Ahmad, page 158 http://www.alislam.org/urdu/pdf/Kalma-tul-Fasal.pdf  As Kufr arises from the denial or rejection of even a single prophet(Nabi) and the International Ahmadiyya Muslim Community believes Mirza Ghulam Ahmad to be a prophet, one who does not believe in Mirza Ghulam Ahmad's claims is outside the fold of Islam, even though they may not have heard the name of Mirza Ghulam Ahmad(from the English translation of Mirza Mahmud Ahmad’s book “A’inah-i Sadaqat”, entitled “The Truth About the Split”, pages 55–61, http://www.alislam.org/library/split/part1.html#refute)&lt;/ref&gt;Finality of the Prophethood of MuhammadThe meaning of “Seal of the Prophets” is that Muhammad is the last of the prophets. However, since Jesus already came as a prophet before Muhammad, he would not be considered the last prophet should he return.“Further Similarities and Differences: (between esoteric, exoteric & Sunni/Shia) and (between Islam/Christianity/Judaism)”, Reproduced with permission from Exploring World Religions, © 2001, by Oxford University Press Canadahttp://muslim-canada.org/oxford.htmlThe meaning of “Seal of the Prophets” is that Muhammad is the last of the prophets. No prophet, either new or old can come after him. Mirza Ghulam Ahmad was the Mujaddid (reformer) of the 14th century Hijra and not a true prophet."No Claim To Prophethood: 20 Arguments by Hazrat Mirza Ghulam Ahmad", Lahore Ahmadiyya Movement, http://aaiil.info/misconceptions/twenty/noclaim.htmMuhammad brought prophethood to perfection, he sealed prophethood and religious law, thus being the last law-bearing prophet, new prophets can come but they must be subordinate to Muhammad and cannot exceed him in excellence nor alter his teaching or bring any new law or religion.Jesus, Son of MaryBorn of a miraculous birth“Early History of Islam”, Religion Online, ThinkQuest, Oracle Education Foundation, http://library.thinkquest.org/26756/islam/index.htm from the virgin, Mary. Did not die on the cross but was transported to heaven,"Islam", MSN Encarta Online, http://encarta.msn.com/encyclopedia_761579171_5/Islam.html#p42 where he lives to return in the flesh to this world shortly before Doomsday."Further Similarities and Differences: (between esoteric, exoteric & Sunni/Shia) and (between Islam/Christianity/Judaism)", Reproduced with permission from Exploring World Religions, © 2001, by Oxford University Press Canada http://muslim-canada.org/oxford.html Since Jesus (considered a prophet) came before Muhammad, his return to Earth would not disqualify Muhammad as the “last” prophet. Jesus will come to earth not as a prophet but as a follower of Muhammad and preach the teachings of Muhammad.Similar to International Ahmadiyya Muslim Community belief except that the question of Jesus's virgin birth is not an essential requirement of faith and is left to the individual's personal conviction."The Birth of Jesus", Lahore Ahmadiyya Movement, http://aaiil.info/misconceptions/jesus/birth.htmJesus was born to the Virgin Mary. He survived the crucifixion and did not die an accursed death.“Jesus Did not Die on the Cross”, The Promised Mehdi and Messiha, by Dr. Aziz Ahmad Chaudhry, Islam International Publications Limited, http://www.alislam.org/library/books/promisedmessiah/index.htm?page=34#top Instead he travelled east to India in search of the Lost Tribes of Israel.“Jesus Migrated to India”, The Promised Mehdi and Messiha, by Dr. Aziz Ahmad Chaudhry, Islam International Publications Limited, http://www.alislam.org/library/books/promisedmessiah/index.htm?page=50#top Jesus lived a full life and died on earth, specifically Jesus's tomb lies in Kashmir under the name Yuz Asaf.Armed JihadMany Muslims believe that Jihad becomes an option when there is no other choice left i.e. in self-defense. Some mainstream Muslims hold the view that there are two different types of Jihad: Jihad Al-Akbar, (considered the greater Jihad) is the personal struggle with one's own soul and Jihad Al-Asghar (considered the lesser Jihad) is the external, physical effort, often implying fighting or war.Jihad primarily means to strive or exert to the fullest. On an ongoing basis this refers to striving against the devil, ones low desires (self) and the peaceful propagation of Islam with special emphasis on spreading the true message of Islam by the pen. In special circumstances Jihad could be an armed struggle but only as a defensive war against extreme persecution.Jihad primarily means to strive or exert to the fullest. On an ongoing basis this refers to striving against the evil of ones low desires (self) and the peaceful propagation of Islam with special emphasis on spreading the true message of Islam by the pen. Claim that as per prophecy, the messiah rendered the concept of violent Jihad unnecessary in modern times. They believe that the answer of hate should be given by love. As their khalifas said that 'if anyone attacks us we must not attack him and should treat them with love and kindness' this is called "Jihaad-e-Akbar" (The Greater Jihad).Ahmadiyya Muslim Jamaat Deutschland - Assalamo Aleikum W.W&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Current statusIndiaThe Ahmadiyya population in India is about one million. Most of them live in Orissa, Jammu and Kashmir, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh. In India, Ahmadiyyas consider themselves Muslims. This belief has legal support (Shihabuddin Koya v. Ahammed Koya, A.I.R. 1971 Ker 206).On right to freedom of religion and the plight of Ahmadiyas by Ridwanul Hoque in the Daily Star With this, India remains the only country where Ahmadiyyas are officially recognized as Muslims.PakistanIn Pakistan, parliament has declared Ahmadis to be non-Muslims. In 1974, the government of Pakistan amended its constitution to define a Muslim “as a person who believes in the finality of the Prophet Muhammad”.An Act to amend the Constitution (2nd Amendment) ACT, 1974. An Act to amend the Constitution of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan Gazette of Pakistan, Extraordinary, Part I, [[21 September] 1974] Due to this strong clash of beliefs, Ahmadis have been the target of many attacks led by various religious groups.Persecution of the Ahmadiyya Community in Pakistan: An Analysis Under International Law and International Relations Harvard Human Rights Journal, Vol 16, September 2003&quot;Violent Dhaka rally against sect&quot;, BBC News&quot;Eight die in Pakistan sect attack&quot;, BBC News&quot;Sect offices closed in Pakistan&quot;, BBC News As a result of the cultural implications of the laws and constitutional amendments regarding Ahmadis in Pakistan, persecution and hate-related incidents are constantly reported from different parts of the country. All religious seminaries and madrassahs in Pakistan, belonging to different sects of Islam have prescribed essential reading materials specifically targeted at refuting Ahmadiyya beliefs.http://uoit.ca/sas/Articles/DAW.pdf Denizens of Alien Worlds. T Rahman - Contemporary South Asia, 2004. A Survey of the Education System of Pakistan. By Tariq Rahman. Page 15 In a recent survey in Pakistan, pupils in private schools of Pakistan expressed their opinions on religious tolerance in the country. The figures assembled in the study reflect that even in the educated classes of Pakistan, Ahmadis are considered to be the least deserving minority in terms of equal opportunities and civil rights. In the same study, the teachers in these elite schools showed even lower amount of tolerance towards Ahmadis than their pupils.http://www.thdl.org/texts/reprints/pdsa/pdsa_01_01_04.pdfPeace and Democracy in South Asia, Volume 1, Number 1, January 2005. Passports to Privilege: The English-Medium Schools In Pakistan, Tariq RahmanBangladeshIn Bangladesh, fundamentalist Islamic groups have demanded that Ahmadiyyas be declared “officially” as kafirs. Ahmadiyyas have become a persecuted group, targeted via protests and acts of violence. According to Amnesty International, followers have been subject to “house arrest”, and several have been killed. In late 2003, several large violent marches, lead by Moulana Moahmud Hossain Mumtazi, were directed to occupy an Ahmadiyya mosque. In 2004, all Ahmadiyya publications were banned.http://web.amnesty.org/library/index/engasa130052004 Bangladesh: The Ahmediyya Community - their rights must be protected, Amnesty International IndonesiaIn 2008, many Muslims in Indonesia protested against the Ahmadiyya Movement. With violence and large demonstrations, these religious conservatives put pressure on the government to monitor, and harass the Ahmadiyya community in Indonesia. Many conservative Islamic groups called for an outright ban on Ahmadiyya. In June 2008, a law was passed to curtail “proselytizing” by Ahmadiyya members.http://www.asianews.it/index.php?l=en&amp;art=12466&amp;size=A Indonesia to ban Ahmadi activities, AsiaNews.IT An Ahmadiyya mosque was burned.Anti-Ahmadiyya Mullah Burning Ahmadiyya Mosques - Indonesia, Al Jazeera News Report Human rights groups objected to the restrictions on religious freedom.CanadaThe Ahmadiyya Muslim Community was establised in Canada in 1963. On 17. October 1992 in the presense of Mirza Tahir Ahmad and many members of Parliament the Baitul Islam Mosque in Maple, Ontario (House of Islam) was opend and is now the headquarter of Ahmadiyya Muslim Community Canada with approxematly 20,000 members. The current President of Ahmadiyya Muslim Community, Canada, is Mr. Malik Lal Khan. Missionary Incharge and former president Mr. Naseem Mahdi is a well known figure in Canadian religious circles. Some of the major parts of this organization are divided by regions including AMC Hamilton, AMC Toronto, AMC Burlington, AMC Calgary etc.Views of mainstream MuslimsOrthodox Muslims consider both Ahmadi movements to be heretics and non-Muslims for a number of reasons, chief among them being the question of finality of prophethood,“Five Pillars of Islam”, Islam101.com, http://www.islam101.com/dawah/pillars.html since they believe members of the International Ahmadiyya Muslim Community do not regard the Islamic prophet Muhammad to be the last prophet“The Question of Finality of Prophethood”, The Promised Messiha and Mehdi, by Dr. Aziz Ahmad Chaudhry, Islam International Publications Limited, http://www.alislam.org/library/books/promisedmessiah/index.htm?page=37#top (the Lahore Ahmadiyya Movement does not subscribe to this beliefazrat Mirza Ghulam Ahmad Sahib of Qadian never Claimed Prophethood (in the light of his own writings). The Lahore Ahmadiyya Movement.). Ahmadis claim that this is a result of misinterpreting Mirza Ghulam Ahmad's statements referring to his coming “in the spirit of Muhammed”,Chaudhry, Aziz Ahmad. The Question of Finality of Prophethood, The Promised Messiha and Mehdi. Islam International Publications Limited. (similar to John the Baptist coming in the spirit and power of Elijah“In what way can we harmonize John the Baptist’s claim that he was not Elijah with the statement of the Lord that he was?”, Tony Capoccia, Bible Bulletin Board, http://www.biblebb.com/files/macqa/1301-F-4.htm)). Both Ahmadi movements believe Mirza Ghulam Ahmad to be the Mahdi and promised Messiah,“The Fourteenth-Century's Reformer / Mujaddid”, Lahore Ahmadiyya Movement, http://www.aaiil.org/text/books/mali/callofislam/reformermujaddiddeathjesusmessiahimammahdidajjalggogmagog.shtmlMainstream Muslims do not accept this claim, and do not believe Mirza Ghulam Ahmad to have fulfilled the prophecies about the Promised Messiah and Mahdi. According to mainstream Muslims Ghulam Ahmad's failiure to establish a perfect worldwide Muslim government and the alleged manner of his death invalidate his claim to be the promised Mahdi and Messiah and hence he is seen as a false prophet.Both Ahmadi movements are considered non-Muslims by the Pakistan government, and have this fact recorded on their travel documents. In contrast Ahmadi citizens from Western countries and other moderate Muslim nations perform Hajj and Umra as the Saudi government is not made aware they are Ahmadis when applying for the visa. A court decision has also upheld the right of Ahmadiyyas to identify themselves as Muslims in India.On right to freedom of religion and the plight of Ahmadiyas. Retrieved on April 10, 2007. END --As the Lahore Ahmadiyya Movement’s view regarding Mirza Ghulam Ahmad’s status as a Prophet is closer to traditional Islamic thought, the Literature published by the Lahore Ahmadiyya Movement has found greater acceptability among the Muslim Intelligentsia.Al-Azhar endorses publications by Lahore Ahmadiyya Movement AAIIL, USAMarmaduke Pickthall's (famous British Muslim and a translator of the Quran into English) comments on Lahore Ahmadiyya Literature AAIIL, USASome mainstream Muslims group both Ahmadi movements together and refer to them as "Qadianis", and their beliefs as "Qadianism"“Lies and the Liar who told them!”, www.inter-islam.org, http://www.inter-islam.org/faith/Qadianism.html (after the small town of Qadian in the Gurdaspur District of Punjab in India, where the movement's founder was born). However most, if not all, Ahmadis of both sects dislike this term as it has acquired derogatory connotations over the years and furthermore they prefer to differentiate their two separate movements. Furthermore, mainstream Muslims will not use the term "Muslim" when referring to Ahmadis, even though both sects refer to themselves as such citing the fatwas given by the Islamic scholars. However, as members of Lahore Ahmadiyya Movement deny the prophethood of Mirza Ghulam Ahmad, some orthodox Islamic Scholars consider the Lahore Ahmadiyya as Muslims.Tributes to Maulana Muhammad Ali and The Lahore Ahmadiyya Movement AAIIL Website In earlier times in Pakistan and India, there was widespread persecution of Ahmadis by certain Muslim groups. Sporadic violence as well as persecution of a more subtle nature against Ahmadis continues even today."Pakistan: Killing of Ahmadis continues amid impunity", Amnesty International, Public Statement, AI Index: ASA 33/028/2005 (Public), News Service No: 271, 11 October 2005, http://web.amnesty.org/library/Index/ENGASA330282005Relationship with ChristiansChristian missionaries during the life of Mirza Ghulam Ahmad were actively engaged in debates, prayer duels and written arguments with the Ahmadiyya Movement. The Ahmadiyya Movement considered Christian nations (particularly of the developed world) as being part of the prophesised Dajjal and Gog and Magog. The Ahmadiyya view of death of Jesus has also been a source of ongoing friction with the Christian Church.Abbott Freeland, observed in his book, Islam and Pakistan,http://opac.ide.go.jp/cgi-bin/exec_cgi/ibibdet.cgi?CGILANG=english&amp;U_CHARSET=utf-8&amp;ID=BB20120198Islam and Pakistan by Freeland, Abbot. p. 160-161 The primary significance of the Ahmadiyya Movement lay in its missionary emphasis. Every Muslim believed that Islam was the only religion free from error. The Ahmadis made it part of their principles to show the errors of other religions to their adherents and to proselytize energetically for Islam. In a sense, the Ahmadis represent the Muslims emerging, religiously speaking, from the withdrawal that had begun with the arrival of the British, just as the Muslim League represents the political emergence from that same withdrawal... Although the sect most attacked by Muslims in India and Pakistan, it has also been the one which has worked hardest, in both its branches, to defend and extend Islam against the competition offered by other faiths.Western historians have recorded this effort as one of the features of Ghulam Ahmad's legacy.http://eprints.rhul.ac.uk/archive/00000332/01/oupbrempmus.pdfThe British Empire and the Muslim World Francis Robinson, Page 19-21Chronology with leaders23 March 1889: Ahmadiyya movement founded.1914: Split into two branches, one remaining in Qadian, today known as Ahmadiyya Movement in Islam (Jamaat-i Ahmadiyya), and one being established in Lahore, known as the Lahore Ahmadiyya Movement for the Propagation of Islam (Ahmadiyya Anjuman Ishaat-i-Islam).Only two leaders are recognized by both branches of the sect:23 March 1889 - 26 May 1908: Mirza Ghulam Ahmad, the founding Messiah and Mahdi (b. 1835 - d. 1908)27 May 1908 - 13 March 1914: Maulana Hakeem Noor-ud-Din (b. 1841 - d. 1914), the first Caliph, after whose death the movement was split:Leaders recognized by the International Ahmadiyya Muslim Community (Qadian Branch), referred to as Khalifas ('Successors'):27 May 1908 - 13 March 1914: Maulana Hakeem Noor-ud-Din (b. 1841 - d. 1914)14 March 1914 - 7 November 1965: Mirza Basheer-ud-Din Mahmood Ahmad (b. 1889 - d. 1965)8 November 1965 - 9 June 1982: Mirza Nasir Ahmad (b. 1909 - d. 1982)10 June 1982 - 19 April 2003: Mirza Tahir Ahmad (b. 1928 - d. 2003)22 April 2003 - today: Mirza Masroor Ahmad (b. 1950)Leaders recognized by the Lahore Ahmadiyya Movement (Lahore Branch), referred to as Emirs:27 May 1908 - 13 March 1914: Maulana Hakeem Noor-ud-Din (b. 1841 - d. 1914)(referred to as Khalifa)April 1914 - 13 October 1951: Maulana Muhammad Ali, M.A. LL.B. (b. 1874 - d. 1951)1951 - 15 November 1981: Maulana Sadr-ud-Din, B.A., B.T. (d. 1981)1981 - 15 November 1996: Dr. Saeed Ahmad Khan, M.B.B.S., Director, Health Services, West Pakistan (b. 1900 - d. 1996)1996 - 14 October 2002: Prof. Dr. Asghar Hameed, Ph.D. (Mathematics, Edinburgh, U.K.), Professor at University of Engineering and Technology, Lahore (b. 1919 - d. 2002)3 November 2002 - today: Prof. Dr. Abdul Karim Saeed, M.R.C.P. (U.K.), Head of Department of Medicine, Ayub Medical College, Abbottabad (b. 1945)Some prominent AhmadisMuhammad Zafrulla Khan - First Foreign Minister of Pakistan (1947-54), President of the UN General Assembly (1962-64), President of the International Court of Justice (1970-73)Dr. Abdus Salam - Awarded the Nobel Prize for Physics in 1979Mirza Tahir Ahmad (1928-2003) - Fourth Successor and Imam of the International Ahmadiyya Muslim CommunityHadhrat Mirza Tahir Ahmad | Fourth Caliph of Ahmadiyya Community - Al Islam Online&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Akhtar Hussain Malik - Lieutenant General of the Pakistan Army, 1965 war heroZafar A Chaudhry - Air Marshal and Chief of Air Staff of Pakistan Air Force (1972-74)M M Ahmad - Prominent Civil Servant of Pakistan and former Executive Director and Vice President of the World BankIftikhar Janjua - Major General of the Pakistan Army - 1965 war hero, killed in 1971 warGen Abdul Ali Malik. War Hero of Chawinda, 1965 Indo-Pakistan warKhwaja Kamal-ud-Din - Lawyer, founder of the Woking Muslim Mission in UK, founder of The Islamic Review, companion of Mirza Ghulam AhmadDr. Basharat Ahmad - Prominent religious scholar and author, companion of Mirza Ghulam AhmadNaseer Ahmad Faruqui - Chief Election Commissioner Pakistan, (d. 6 December 1991)Maulana Muhammad Ali - Religious scholar and first Muslim author of an English language translation of the QuranObaidullah Aleem - Famous Urdu PoetMalik Ram - Urdu ScholarYusef Lateef - Jazz musician and Grammy Award winnerMahershalalhashbaz Ali - Well Known Actor, Lead on the USA Network's program The 4400Sahibzada Abdul Latif: Martyr of Ahmadiyya Islam, Afghan king's Abdur Rahman Khan advisor and representative of the Afghan government in formation of the Durand LineThe Afghan Martyrs by B.A. RafiqAdnan Virk : Canadian sports anchor and reporter, currently working for the Canadian sports network, The Score.Ch Rashid Ahmad Sawar :Missionary of Ahmadiyya Islam in Tanzania, East Africa.Maulana A. Wahab Adam :Amir (President) and Missionary-Incharge of the Ahmadiyya Community in Ghana, Africa.Maulana Naseem Mahdi : Former Amir/President, Vice President 1, and Missionary In-Charge of the International Ahmadiyya Muslim Community of about 30,000 in CanadaSee alsoAhmadiyya LiteraturePersecution of AhmadiyyaAhmadiyya Discussion GroupReferencesExternal linksInternational Ahmadiyya Muslim CommunityKhatme Nabuwat &amp; Ahmadiyya Muslim Community Point of ViewOfficial Website of the International Ahmadiyya Muslim CommunityOfficial Website of Jalsa Salana (Annual Convention) of the Ahmadiyya Muslim CommunityAhmadiyya Muslim Community PakistanAhmadiyya Muslim Jama'at AustraliaAhmadiyya Muslim Jama'at AustriaAhmadiyya Muslim Jama'at BangladeshAhmadiyya Muslim Community BelgiumAhmadiyya Muslim Community CanadaAhmadiyya Muslim Jama'at FranceAhmadiyya Muslim Jama'at GermanyAhmadiyya Muslim Community IndonesiaAhmadiyya Muslim Jama'at New ZealandAhmadiyya Muslim Jama'at SwedenAhmadiyya Muslim Jama'at SwitzerlandAhmadiyya Muslim Community UK and IrelandAhmadiyya Muslim Community USAAhmadiyya Muslim Community SpainIslam Ahmadiyyat - Revival of Faith Documentary (2008)Ahmadiyya UK community portalLahore Ahmadiyya Movement for the Propagation of IslamOfficial Website of the Lahore Ahmadiyya Movement for the Propagation of Islam &amp;ndash; Ahmadiyya Anjuman Ishaat-e-Islam LahoreOther linksAhmadiyya LiteratureAhmadiyya Discussion GroupAhmadiyya Video LibraryArticle regarding death of Mirza Ghulam AhmadDawat-e-Lillah Articles'' - Ahmadiyya articles at eSnips both in Urdu and in English languages and as well as in ArabicTopical articles by opponents of the Ahmadiyya SectReplies by Ayatollah Ali Al-Hakim from a Shi'ah Muslims' point of viewThe Qadiani Sect by Yusuf Smith - A Muslim convert's Point of View - Alhafeez.org Anti Ahmadiyya Anti Shia Anti Barelvi, Anti Ismaieli websiteQadiyanism: A Brief Survey - The Institute of Islamic Information and Education, USAAllama Iqbal on Ahmadism - ServantsofAllah.orgSir Muhammad Iqbal and the Ahmadiyya Movement - Iqbal's sympathies and support for the Ahmadiyya MovementThe Problem Of Qadiyanism by Sayyid Abul Ala Maududi - Ummah.com Anti Ahmadiyya Anti Shia Anti Barelvi, Anti Ismaieli websiteMirza Qadiani's Anti-Islamic Claims by Dr. Syed Rashid Ali - IslamicwebFinality of Prophethood by Abul A'la Maududi - youngmuslims.comDarul Ishaat - Learn the truth about IslamAboutAhmadiyya.com - Information about Ahmadiyya movementPersecutionPersecution of Ahmadiyya Muslim CommunityAsian Centre for Human Rights: Pakistan: The Land of Religious Apartheid and Jackboot Justice (Executive summary and recommendations, 2007)Other sites with works critical of the Ahmadiyya Movement- '' Replies to miscellaneous allegations'''' Confession of few facts by severe opponents of Ahmadis like Dr, Israr Ahmad. Positive remarks about Ahmadiyyat and Founder of Ahmadiyyat by Allama Iqbal, Sir Syed Ahmad Khan and bitter opponent of Ahmadiyyat Dr. Israr Ahmad. A video Clip from ARY Digital, A famous satellite TV channel'')Allama Iqbal on Ahmadism - ServantsofAllah.orgKhatm-e-NubuwwatAnti Ahmadiyya MovementExposing the Fraud of AhmadiyyaCategory:Ahmadiyya Category:Indian religious leaders Category:Islam in India Category:Religious organizations established in 1889 Category:Islam in Pakistanar:أحمدية bn:আহ্‌মদি bs:Ahmedije da:Ahmadiyya de:Ahmadiyya el:Αχμαντίγια es:Comunidad Ahmadía eo:Ahmadismo fa:احمدیه fr:Ahmadisme hi:अहमदिय्या धर्म id:Ahmadiyyah it:Ahmadiyya he:אחמדים hu:Ahmadik nl:Ahmadiyya ja:アフマディーヤ nn:Ahmadiyya no:Islams Ahmadiyya Menighet pl:Ahmadija sk:Ahmadíja sl:Ahmadija sv:Ahmadiyya tt:Äxmädiyä tg:Аҳмадӣ zh:阿赫迈底亚