in Lake Resia.]]The Adige (; Venetian: Àdexe; Trentin: Ades; Friulian: Adis; ; Ladin: Adesc, or Adiç; Latin: Athesis, Ancient greek: Athesis, Αθισης) is a river with its source in the Alpine region of Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol near the Italian border with Austria and Switzerland. At  in length, 220 located in the province of Bolzano, it is the second longest river in Italy, after the Po River with .The river flows out of the artificial Alpine Lake Resia, located at the Resia Pass () close to the borders with Austria and Switzerland above the Inn valley. The lake is known for the church tower that marks the site of the former village of Curon Antica (Alt Graun) that was abandoned and flooded in 1953 when the dam was finished. Near Glurns, the Rom River from the Swiss Val Müstair joins.The Adige then runs eastbound through the Vinschgau (Venosta Valley) to Merano where it is met by the Passirio river from the north. South of Bolzano, the Isarco joins the river that is now heading south through a valley that always has been one of the major routes through the Alps, leading to and from the Resia Pass and the Brenner Pass, at  considered the easiest of the main Alpine passes.The Salurner Klause/''Chiusa di Salorno'' narrows at Salorno marks the southern-most part of the German-speaking area. Thus, the Adige was mentioned in the Lied der Deutschen of 1841 as the southern border of the German language area of the time. This song was made the national anthem of Germany in 1922, after Italy took control of all of the Adige.Near Trento, the Avisio, Noce, and Fersina rivers join. The Adige then crosses Trentino and later Veneto, flowing past the city of Verona and the towns of Rovereto and Adria through the Lagarina valley and the north-eastern part of the Po plain into the Adriatic sea. Both the Adige and the Po run parallel in the river delta without properly joining.As a river in the mountains, it is subject to sudden swellings and overflows. It is also connected through artificial underground canals to Lake Garda for flood prevention.External linksEncyclopædia Britannica  on the left and Bolzano on the right.]] * Category:Rivers of Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol Category:Rivers of the Veneto Category:Rivers of the Province of Rovigo Category:Province of Bolzano-Bozen Category:Province of Padua Category:Rivers of Trento Category:Province of Venice Category:Province of Veronaar:نهر أديج bar:Etsch br:Adige ca:Adige cs:Adige da:Adige de:Etsch et:Adige jõgi es:Adigio eo:Adiĝo fr:Adige gl:Río Adige ko:아디제 강 it:Adige he:אדיג'ה la:Athesis lt:Adidžė lmo:Adiss nl:Adige nds-nl:Adige ja:アディジェ川 no:Adige nn:Adige oc:Adige nds:Etsch pl:Adyga pt:Rio Ádige ro:Adige ru:Адидже (река) sl:Adiža fi:Adige sv:Adige uk:Адідже vec:Àdexe zh:阿迪杰河