Merengue is a style of Latin American music and dance with a two-step beat. Partners hold each other in a closed position. The leader holds the follower's waist with his right hand, while holding her right hand with his left hand at the follower's eye level. Partners bend their knees slightly left and right, thus making the hips move left and right. The hips of the leader and follower move in the same direction throughout the song. Partners may walk sideways or circle each other, in small steps. They can switch to a double handhold position and do separate turns without letting go each other's hands or momentarily releasing one hand. During these turns they may twist and tie their handhold into intricate pretzels. Other choreography is possible.Merengue was made the official music and dance of the Dominican Republic by Rafael Trujillo. Some say merengue derived from the "paso de la empalizada" (pole-fence step). There are also legends about a limping war hero (or El Presidente of a banana republic himself, in some versions) who had to step in this way while dancing because of wounds, and polite (or clueless) public imitated him .Although the tempo of the music may be frantic, the upper body is kept majestic and turns are slow, typically four beats/steps per complete turn.In the social dancing of the United States the "empalizada" style is replaced by exaggerated Cuban motion, taught in chain ballroom studios for dances of Latin American origin (Cha-cha-cha, Rumba, Mambo, Salsa).Relation to other dancesMerengue is danced in a similar fashion to other Caribbean music styles like Soca, Compas and Zouk. There is a similarity in patterns between merengue and the Cajun Jig and Zydeco dancing, although the step technique and overall style are quite different.Category:Latin dances Category:Latin American folk dances Category:Ballroom dance Category:dances Category:Merenguebg:Меренге ca:Merengue de:Merengue et:Merengue es:Merengue (género musical) fr:Merengue fur:Merengue it:Merengue he:מרנגה ka:მერენგე ht:Mereng nl:Merengue nds-nl:Merengue no:Merengue pl:Merengue pt:Merengue ru:Меренге fi:Merengue (tanssi) sv:Merengue tr:Merengue uk:Меренге