For large firefighting devices, see Fire monitor.The Water monitor, Varanus salvator is a large species of monitor lizard capable of growing up to 3 meters (9.8 ft) in length, but most adults are 1.5 meters (4.9 ft) long at most, and are close in size to the Komodo Dragon. Maximum weight of Varanus salvator can be over 75 kg, but most are half that size. Their body is muscular with a long powerful tail. Water monitors are perhaps the most common monitor lizards in Asia, and range from Sri Lanka, India, Indochina, the Malay Peninsula and various islands of Indonesia, living in tropical forested areas.Water monitors are very opportunistic in their feeding, eating small mammals (like rats and monkeys), birds, reptiles, fish, insects, and carrion. Large adults can also attack deer.SpeciesThe species has several geographic races:adamanensis: Andaman Islands; Type locality: Port Blair, Andaman Islands.bivittatus: Java, Bali, Lombok, Sumbawa, Flores, Ombai (Alor), Wetar and some neighbouring islands within the Sunda arch, Indonesia; Type locality: Java (designated by Mertens 1959).cumingi: Mindanao, Philippines; Type locality: Mindanao, Philippines.komaini: Thailand. Type locality: Amphoe La-ngu, Satun Prov., Thailand, and Thai-Malaysian border area.marmoratus: Islands of Luzon, Palawan, Calamian and Sulu archipelago, Philippines; Type locality: (restricted by Mertens 1942 to) San Mateo near Manila, Philippines.nuchalis: Philippines (Cebu, Ticao, Negros, Panay and Masbate, Philippines); Type locality: Philippines.salvator: entire range of the species with the exception of the Andaman Islands; Type locality: America (in error); emended to "Ceylon" (= Sri Lanka) by Mertens (1959).togianus: Togian Islands, Sulawesi, Indonesia; Type locality: "Togian-Inseln (Timotto)" IndonesiaBehaviorWater monitors can be aggressive using their tail, claws, and jaws when fighting. They are excellent swimmers, using the raised fin located on their tails to steer through water.ConservationIn Hong Kong, it is a protected species under Wild Animals Protection Ordinance Cap 170. In Malaysia, this species is one of the most common wild animals around with numbers comparable to that of the population of macaques there. Although many fall prey to humans via road kill and animal cruelty, it still thrives in most states of Malaysia especially in the shrubs of the east-coast states such as Pahang and Terengganu. Malay "kampung" boys and young working class malay men often catch and kill water monitors for their own amusement although the widespread population of the species causes the lack of conservation attention.In CultureIn Thailand, the word water monitor or actually local word 'เหี้ย' (hia) is used as an insulting word for bad and evil things including a bad person. Its name is also considered a word bringing a bad luck, so some people prefer to call them 'ตัวเงินตัวทอง' which means 'silver and gold' in Thai to avoid the jinx.A water monitor portrayed a Komodo Dragon in the 1990 movie, The Freshman.Gallery Image:Varanus Salvator ID.jpg|Water monitor Image:Water Monitor.jpg|A water monitor in the Muthurajuwela Marshes in Sri Lanka Image:Water monitor P9240105.JPG|A water monitor Image:Asian water monitor (Varanus salvator salvator).JPG|Asian water monitor (Varanus salvator salvator) Image:WaterMonitor_Penang.jpg|A water monitor in Penang, Malaysia ReferencesBennett, Daniel 1995 The water monitor Varanus salvator Reptilian 3 (8): 15-21Das, Indraneil 1988 New evidence of the occurrence of water monitor (Varanus salvator) in Meghalaya J. Bombay Nat. Hist. Soc. 86: 253-255Deraniyagala, P. E. P. 1944 Four New Races of the Kabaragoya Lizard Varanus salvator. Spolia Zeylanica 24: 59-62Pandav, Bivash 1993 A preliminary survey of the water monitor (Varanus salvator) in Bhitarkanika Wildlife Sanctuary, Orissa Hamadryad 18: 49-51Whitaker, Rom 1981 Bangladesh - Monitors and turtles Hamadryad 6 (3): 7-9External linksAnimal Diversity WebThe New Reptile Databasehttp://itgmv1.fzk.de/www/itg/uetz/herp/photos/Varanus_salvator.jpghttp://itgmv1.fzk.de/www/itg/uetz/herp/photos/Varanus_salvator_cumingi.jpgPhotos - Water Monitor Swimming Category:Monitor lizards Category:Reptiles of Asia Category:Fauna of India Category:Fauna of Southeast Asia Category:Fauna of Bangladesh Category:Fauna of Burma Category:Fauna of Laos Category:Fauna of Vietnam Category:Fauna of Cambodia Category:Fauna of Thailand Category:Fauna of Malaysia Category:Fauna of Brunei Category:Reptiles of Indonesia Category:Reptiles of the Philippinesde:Bindenwaran es:Varanus salvator eo:Akva varano fr:Varan malais hu:Szalagos varánusz ms:Biawak Air nl:Watervaraan ja:ミズオオトカゲ pl:Waran paskowany pt:Varano-malaio sv:Bandvaran th:เหี้ย zh-yue:水巨蜥