The Q code is a standardised collection of three-letter message encodings, all starting with the letter "Q", initially developed for commercial radiotelegraph communication, and later adopted by other radio services, especially amateur radio. Although Q codes were created when radio used Morse code exclusively, they continued to be employed after the introduction of voice transmissions. To avoid confusion, transmitter call signs have often been limited to restrict ones starting with "Q" or having an embedded three-letter Q sequence. The codes in the range QAA-QNZ are reserved for aeronautical use; QOA-QOZ for maritime use, and QRA-QUZ for all services.Early developmentsThe original Q codes were created, circa 1909, by the British government as a "list of abbreviations... prepared for the use of British ships and coast stations licensed by the Postmaster-General". The Q codes facilitated communication between maritime radio operators speaking different languages, so they were soon adopted internationally. A total of forty-five Q codes appeared in the "List of Abbreviations to be used in Radio Communications", which was included in the Service Regulations affixed to the Third International Radiotelegraph Convention. (This Convention, which met in London, was signed on July 5, 1912, and became effective July 1, 1913.)The following table reviews a sample of the all-services Q codes adopted by the 1912 Convention:Abbre-viation.Question.Answer or Notice.+ First Twelve Q Codes Listed in the 1912 International Radiotelegraph Convention RegulationsQRAWhat ship or coast station is that?This is ____.QRBWhat is your distance?My distance is ____.QRCWhat is your true bearing?My true bearing is ____ degrees.QRDWhere are you bound for?I am bound for ____.QRFWhere are you bound from?I am bound from ____.QRGWhat line do you belong to?I belong to the ____ Line.QRHWhat is your wave length in meters?My wave length is ____ meters.QRJHow many words have you to send?I have ____ words to send.QRKHow do you receive me?I am receiving well.QRLAre you receiving badly? Shall I send 20 ...-. for adjustment?I am receiving badly. Send 20 ...-. for adjustment.QRMAre you being interfered with?I am being interfered with.QRNAre the atmospherics strong?Atmospherics are very strong.Later usageOver the years, modifications were made to the original Q codes to reflect changes in radio practice. In the original international list, QSW/QSX stood for "Shall I increase/decrease my spark frequency?", however, spark-gap transmitters were banned in the United States in the 1920s, rendering the original meaning of those Q codes obsolete. Over a hundred Q codes were listed in the 'Post Office Handbook for Radio Operators' in the 1970's and cover subjects such as meteorology, radio direction finding, radio procedures, search & rescue and so on.Some Q codes are also used in aviation, in particular QNH and QFE, referring to certain altimeter settings. These codes are used in radio conversations with air traffic control as unambiguous shorthand, where safety and efficiency are of vital importance. A subset of Q codes is used by the Miami-Dade County, Florida local government for law enforcement and fire rescue communications, one of the few instances where Q codes are used in ground voice communication.Many military and other organizations that use Morse code have adopted additional codes, including the Z code used by most European and NATO countries. The Z code adds commands and questions adapted for military radio transmissions. For example, "ZBW 2" &mdash; change to backup frequency number 2 &mdash; or "ZNB abc" &mdash; my checksum is abc, what is yours?Used in their formal "question/answer" sense, the meaning of a Q code varies depending on whether or not the individual Q code is sent as a question or an answer. For example, the message "QRP?" means "Shall I decrease transmitter power?", and a reply of "QRP" means "Yes, decrease your transmitter power". This structured use of Q codes is fairly rare and now mainly limited to amateur radio and military morse code (CW) traffic networks.Amateur radioSelected Q codes were soon adopted by amateur radio operators. In December, 1915 the American Radio Relay League began publication of a magazine titled QST, named after the Q code for "General call to all stations". In amateur radio, the Q codes were originally used in Morse code transmissions to shorten lengthy phrases and were followed by a Morse code question mark (..--..) if the phrase was a question.Although considered bad operating practice, Q codes are commonly used in voice communications as shorthand nouns, verbs, and adjectives making up phrases. For example, an amateur radio operator will complain about QRM (man-made interference), or tell another operator that there is "QSB on the signal"; "to QSY" is to change your operating frequency.CodeQuestionAnswer or Statement+ Q Codes Commonly Used by Radio AmateursQRGWill you tell me my exact frequency (or that of ...)?Your exact frequency (or that of ... ) is ... kHz (or MHz).QRIHow is the tone of my transmission?The tone of your transmission is (1. Good; 2. Variable; 3. Bad)QRKWhat is the readability of my signals (or those of ...)?The readability of your signals (or those of ...) is ... (1 to 5).QRLAre you busy?I am busy. (or I am busy with ... ) Please do not interfere.QRMAre you being interfered with?I am being interfered with.QRNAre you troubled by static?I am troubled by static.QROShall I increase power?Increase powerQRPShall I decrease power?Decrease powerQRQShall I send faster?Send faster (... wpm)QRSShall I send slower?Send slower (... wpm)QRTShall I stop sending?Stop sending.QRUHave you anything for me?I have nothing for you.QRVAre you ready?I am ready.QRXWill you call me again?I will call you again at ... (hours) on ... kHz (or MHz)QRZWho is calling me?You are being called by ... on ... kHz (or MHz)QSAWhat is the strength of my signals (or those of ... )?The strength of your signals (or those of ...) is ... (1 to 5).QSBAre my signals fading?Your signals are fading.QSDIs my keying defective?Your keying is defective.QSKCan you hear me between your signals?I can hear you between my signals.QSLCan you acknowledge receipt?I am acknowledging receipt.QSMShall I repeat the last telegram (message) which I sent you, or some previous telegram (message)?Repeat the last telegram (message) which you sent me (or telegram(s) (message(s)) numbers(s) ...).QSNDid you hear me (or ... (call sign)) on .. kHz (or MHz)?I did hear you (or ... (call sign)) on ... kHz (or MHz).QSOCan you communicate with ... direct or by relay?I can communicate with ... direct (or by relay through ...).QSXWill you listen to ... (call sign(s) on ... kHz (or MHz))?I am listening to ... (call sign(s) on ... kHz (or MHz))QSYShall I change to transmission on another frequency?Change to transmission on another frequency (or on ... kHz (or MHz)).QTAShall I cancel telegram (message) No. ... as if it had not been sent?Cancel telegram (message) No. ... as if it had not been sent.QTCHow many telegrams (messages) have you to send?I have ... telegrams (messages) for you (or for ...).QTHWhat is your position in latitude and longitude (or according to any other indication)?My position is ... latitude...longitudeQTRWhat is the correct time?The correct time is ... hoursSome of the common usages vary somewhat from their formal, official sense. There are also a few unofficial and humorous codes in use, such as QLF ("try sending with your LEFT foot") and QSC ("send cigarettes", not the official meaning of "this is a cargo vessel"). In the question form, QNB?, is supposed to mean "How many buttons does your radio have?" A reply of the form QNB 45/15 means "45, and I know what 15 of them do." QRK is sometimes used to refer to the cost of something - "I would like an FT9000 but it is too much QRK".QSK - "I can hear you during my transmission" - refers to a particular mode of Morse code operating in which the receiver is enabled during the spaces between dots while transmitting. Some transceivers incorporate this function, sometimes referred to as full break-in as against semi-break-in in which there is a short delay before the transceiver goes to receive.Some ham operators within the USA, particularly those traveling long distances, will monitor the National 2-meter FM calling frequency of 146.520 MHz while in their vehicles. If you see a vehicle on the road with a bumper-sticker, license plate or other sign that says QRZ 52? and a few extra antennas, that is what's happening.AviationAlthough the majority of the Q codes have slipped out of common use, several remain part of the standard ICAO radiotelephony phraseology in aviation.CodeMeaningSample use+ Altimeter SettingsQFEAtmospheric pressure at airfield elevationRunway in use 22 Left, QFE 990QNEAtmospheric pressure at sea level in the International Standard Atmosphere (1013.25 mbar)QNHAtmospheric pressure at mean sea levelRequest QNHCodeMeaningSample use+ Radio NavigationQDMMagnetic bearing to a stationQDM QDM QDM (callsign) request QDMQDRMagnetic bearing from a stationQFURunway in useRunway 22 in use, QFU 22QTETrue bearing from a stationQUJTrue bearing to a stationCodeMeaningSample use+ Radio ProceduresQSYFree-call another frequency (no longer an official part of the standard phraseology, but still heard regularly)Golf Alpha Bravo QSY Doncaster 126.225See alsoACP-131External linksHandbook for Wireless Telegraph Operators, October, 1909.Radio Laws and Regulations of the United States: Edition July 27, 1914. (Includes the 1912 London Radiotelegraphic Convention)ARRL amateur radio Q signalsITU Q code table for the maritime mobile serviceList of Q codesCategory:Amateur radio Category:Encodingsbe:Q-код cs:Q kódy v radioprovozu de:Q-Code es:Código Q de señales eo:Q-kodo fr:Code Q it:Codice Q nl:Q-code ja:Q符号 pl:Kod Q pt:Código Internacional Q ru:Q-коды sk:Q kód fi:Q-koodi sv:Q-förkortningar th:รหัสคิว zh:Q简语