 Murnau am Staffelsee is a market town in the district of Garmisch-Partenkirchen, in the Oberbayern region of Bavaria, Germany.GeographyMurnau is situated on the edge of the Bavarian alps, approx. 70 km south of Munich. Directly to its west is the Staffelsee lake.HistoryMurnau was first mentioned documentary in 1150.It received the right to hold markets from Louis V, Duke of Bavaria, in 1350 and retains the title of "Markt" ("market") until today.The town suffered a major fire in the year of 1835 and was subsequently almost completely rebuilt.During World War II a Nazi POW camp for Polish officers was located there.InfrastructureMurnau is a minor train hub, since it is the place where the Munich-Garmisch-Partenkirchen and the Oberammergau train lines intersect. The first electrical signal box of the Deutsche Bundesbahn was installed here. Also, the A95 motorway and the B 2 Bundesstrasse run through or near Murnau.Another major feature is the Berufsgenossenschaftliche Unfallklinik, a hospital specializing in trauma surgery.Murnau is used as a health resort by many guests and thus features a park and a bath.Notable personsFor such a small town, Murnau has attracted quite a few noteworthy citizens over the years. Gabriele Münter and Wassily Kandinsky of the Blauer Reiter artistic collective lived there for several years. Ödön von Horvath spent a large part of his youth and young adulthood there and based some of his most well-known works (e.g. Jugend ohne Gott, Italienische Nacht) on happenings during the Third Reich in Murnau. Lastly, filmmaker F.W. Murnau probably took his assumed name from the town, though there is no real factual evidence for this. Contemporary luthier Michael Koeberling lives and works in Murnau.External linksOfficial siteMurnau Castle Museum Münterhaus Museum Webcam: Pedestrian Precinct Berufsgenossenschaftliche Unfallklinik MurnauCategory:Garmisch-Partenkirchen districtbar:Murnau de:Murnau am Staffelsee es:Murnau am Staffelsee eo:Murnau am Staffelsee fr:Murnau am Staffelsee id:Murnau am Staffelsee it:Murnau am Staffelsee nl:Murnau am Staffelsee pl:Murnau am Staffelsee ro:Murnau am Staffelsee ru:Мурнау-ам-Штаффельзее sv:Murnau am Staffelsee vo:Murnau am Staffelsee