This article concerns the former religious, catholic-founded secular order of knighthood. For other uses of the name Lazarus, see Lazarus (disambiguation).The Order of St. Lazarus of Jerusalem originated in a leper hospital run by hospitaller brothers, founded in the twelfth century by the crusaders of the Latin Kingdom. It was originally established to treat virulent diseases such as leprosy.Today, the revived organisation has been engaged in a major charitable program to revive Christianity in Eastern Europe: Russia, Ukraine, Armenia, Georgia, and the Near East: Lebanon, Syria, Palestine. Millions of dollars worth of food, clothing, medical equipment and supplies have been distributed in Poland, Hungary, Romania and Croatia. Because of this experience, the European Community commissioned the Order to transport more than 1.5 billion dollars in food to the hungry in Russia.External linksOrganisation's Official Websites:Official International Website of the United Military ans Hospitaller Order of St. Lazarus of Jerusalem - former Malta &amp; Paris ObedienceOfficial International Website of the Military and Hospitaller Order of Saint Lazarus of Jerusalem - MaltaOfficial International Website of the Orleans Paris ObedienceThe Spiritual Protector: Patriarch of Melkite Greek Catholic ChurchDifferent and alternative views on St. Lazarus Order history:The Order of St Lazarus. A Short HistoryThe Order of St Lazarus. Paris Obedience view for historyHeraldry of the St Lazarus Order/Symbol of the OrderThe Order of St Lazarus. Orleans Obedience view for historyThe Order of St. Lazarus by Guy Stair Sainty&quot;Revived&quot; Orders of Chivalry: the case of the Order of Saint Lazarus by François VeldeThe Military and Hospitaller Order of Saint Lazarus of Jerusalem from the book: Orders of Knighthood and Merit : The Pontifical, Religious and Secularised Catholic-founded Orders and their relationship to the Apostolic See by Peter Bander van Buren. (Gerrards Cross : Colin Smythe, 1995)Statement by Gregorios III Patriarch of the Melkite-Greek Catholic Church and Spiritual Protector of the Military and Hospitaller Order of Saint Lazarus of JerusalemBibliographyBelloy, Pierre de, De l'origine et institution des divers ordres de chevalerie tant ecclésiastiques que prophanes, Paris, 1604, 2nd edition Toulouse, 1622Gautier de Sibert, History of The Military and Hospitaller Order of Saint Lazarus of Jerusalem, Paris, 1772Francis Elphinstone, The Opponents of St Lazarus which appeared, The Armorial, vol.III, no.4, November 1962, EdinburghAlgrant y Cañete, James J. / Beaugourdon, Jean de St. Vincent de, Armorial of the Military and Hospitaller Order of St. Lazarus of Jerusalem, Delft, 1983Morris of Balgonie, Stuart H., Ygr., The Insignia and Decorations of the Military and Hospitaller Order of Saint Lazarus of Jerusalem, Perthshire, 1986Francis Elphinstone, The Opponents of St Lazarus, The Armorial, vol.III, no.4, November 1962, EdinburghBander van Duren, Peter, Orders of Knighthood and of Merit-''The Pontifical, Religious and Secularised Catholic-founded Orders and their relationship to the Apostolic See'', Buckinghamshire, 1995, p. 495-513, XLV-XLVIIMontilla Zavalía, Félix Alberto, Las Órdenes de Caballería y las Órdenes Honoríficas Católicas en la actualidad (Una visión histórico-jurídica y política) introduced by Dr. Isidoro J. Ruiz Moreno, Argentinian Lieutenant of the Order of the Holy Sepulchre, Editorial Dunken, Buenos Aires, 2001, p. 16M. Ellul, The Green Eight Pointed Cross, Malta, 2004Charles Savona-Ventura, The Knight Hospitallers of Saint Lazarus, Malta, 2006Category:Crusades Category:Christian orders Category:Leprosy Lazarus Lazarus, Order of Saint Lazarus, Order of Saintcs:Řád svatého Lazara de:Lazarus-Orden es:Caballeros de San Lázaro pl:Zakon Rycerzy św. Łazarza fr:Ordre de Saint-Lazare ja:聖ラザロ騎士団 nl:Orde van Sint-Lazarus ru:Орден Святого Лазаря sr:Ред светог Лазара