  |place of birth=Poissy |date of death= |place of death=Perpignan |place of burial=Initially Narbonne, later Saint Denis Basilica |Philip III (30 April 1245 &ndash; 5 October 1285), called the Bold (French: le Hardi), was the King of France, succeeding his father, Louis IX, and reigning from 1270 to 1285. He was a member of the House of Capet.Born in Poissy, to Louis IX (the later Saint Louis) and Marguerite of Provence, Philip was prior to his accession Count of Orleans. He accompanied his father on the Eighth Crusade to Tunisia in 1270. His father died at Tunis and there Philip was declared king at the age of 25. Philip was indecisive, soft in nature, timid, and apparently crushed by the strong personalities of his parents and dominated by his father's policies. He was called "the Bold" on the basis of his abilities in combat and on horseback and not his character. He was pious, but not cultivated. He followed the dictates of others, first of Pierre de la Broce and then of his uncle Charles I of Sicily.After his succession, he quickly set his uncle on negotiations with the emir to conclude the crusade, while he himself returned to France. A ten-year truce was concluded and Philip was crowned in France on 12 August 1271. On 21 August, his uncle, Alfonso, Count of Poitou, Toulouse, and Auvergne, died returning from the crusade in Italy. Philip inherited his counties and united them to the royal demesne. The portion of the Auvergne which he inherited became the "Terre royale d'Auvergne," later the Duchy of Auvergne. In accordance with Alfonso's wishes, the Comtat Venaissin was granted to the Pope Gregory X in 1274. Several years of negotiations yielded the Treaty of Amiens with Edward I of England in 1279. Thereby Philip restored to the English the Agenais which had fallen to him with the death of Alfonso. In 1284, Philip also inherited the counties of Perche and Alençon from his brother Pierre.Philip all the while supported his uncle's policy in Italy. When, after the Sicilian Vespers of 1282, Peter III of Aragon invaded and took the island of Sicily, the pope, Martin IV, excommunicated the conqueror and declared his kingdom (put under the suzerainty of the pope by Peter II in 1205) forfeit. He granted Aragon to Charles, Count of Valois, Philip's son. Philip intervened in the Navarrese succession after the death of Henry I of Navarre and married his son, Philip the Fair, to the heiress of Navarre, Joan I.In 1284, Philip and his sons entered Roussillon at the head of a large army. This war, called the Aragonese Crusade from its papal sanction, has been labelled "perhaps the most unjust, unnecessary and calamitous enterprise ever undertaken by the Capetian monarchy."Chaytor, p 105. On 26 June 1285, Philip the Bold entrenched himself before Gerona in an attempt to besiege it. The resistance was strong, but the city was taken on 7 September. Philip soon experienced a reversal, however, as the French camp was hit hard by an epidemic of dysentery. Philip himself was afflicted. The French retreated and were handily defeated at the Battle of the Col de Panissars. The king of France himself died at Perpignan, the capital of his ally James II of Majorca, and was buried in Narbonne. He currently lies buried with his wife Isabella of Aragon in Saint Denis Basilica in Paris.In the Divine Comedy, Dante sees Philip's spirit outside the gates of Purgatory with a number of other contemporary European rulers. Dante does not name Philip directly, but refers to him as "the small-nosed" and "the father of the Pest of France."Marriage and childrenOn 28 May 1262, Philip married Isabella of Aragon, daughter of James I of Aragon and his second wife Yolande of Hungary, daughter of Andrew II of Hungary, and had the following children:Louis (1266 – May 1276)Philip IV (1268 – November 29, 1314), successor as kingCharles (March 12, 1270 – December 16, 1325), Count of ValoisAfter Isabella's death, he married on 21 August 1274, Marie de Brabant, daughter of Henry III of Brabant and Adelaide of Burgundy. Their children were:Louis (May 1276 – May 19, 1319), Count of ÉvreuxBlanche (1278 – March 19, 1305, Vienna), married Rudolf III of Austria on May 25, 1300Margaret (1282 – February 14, 1317), married Edward I of EnglandAncestors+'Philip's ancestors in three generations'Philip III of FranceFather:Louis IX of FrancePaternal Grandfather:Louis VIII of FrancePaternal Great-grandfather:Philip II of FrancePaternal Great-grandmother:Isabelle of HainautPaternal Grandmother:Blanche of CastilePaternal Great-grandfather:Alfonso VIII of CastilePaternal Great-grandmother:Leonora of EnglandMother:Marguerite of ProvenceMaternal Grandfather:Ramon Berenguer IV, Count of ProvenceMaternal Great-grandfather:Alfonso II, Count of ProvenceMaternal Great-grandmother:Gersenda II of SabranMaternal Grandmother:Beatrice of SavoyMaternal Great-grandfather:Thomas I of SavoyMaternal Great-grandmother:Marguerite of GenevaNotesSourcesChaytoe, H. J. A History of Aragon and Catalonia. 1933.   |-    |-     Category:French monarchs Category:Roman Catholic monarchs Category:House of Capet Category:People of the Eighth Crusade (Christians) Category:1245 births Category:1285 deathsbs:Filip III, kralj Francuske bg:Филип ІІІ (Франция) ca:Felip III de França cs:Filip III. Francouzský cy:Philippe III, Brenin Ffrainc de:Philipp III. (Frankreich) eo:Filipo la 3-a (Francio) et:Philippe III el:Φίλιππος Γ' της Γαλλίας es:Felipe III de Francia fa:فیلیپ سوم fr:Philippe III de France hr:Filip III., kralj Francuske io:Filip 3ma di Francia it:Filippo III di Francia he:פיליפ השלישי, מלך צרפת ka:ფილიპ III (საფრანგეთი) la:Philippus III (rex Franciae) hu:III. Fülöp francia király nl:Filips III van Frankrijk ja:フィリップ3世 (フランス王) no:Filip III av Frankrike pl:Filip III Śmiały pt:Filipe III de França ru:Филипп III (король Франции) sk:Filip III. (Francúzsko) sr:Филип III Храбри uk:Філіп III (король Франції) fi:Filip III (Ranska) sv:Filip III av Frankrike zh:腓力三世 (法兰西)