, looking south on highway 163 from 13 miles north of the Arizona/Utah State line.]] Monument Valley is located on the southern border of Utah with northern Arizona (around ). The valley lies within the range of the Navajo Nation Reservation, and is accessible from U.S. Highway 163. The Navajo name for the valley is Tsé Bii' Ndzisgaii (Valley of the Rocks).GeologyThe area is part of the Colorado Plateau. The floor is largely Cutler Red siltstone or its sand deposited by the meandering rivers that carved the valley. The valley's vivid red color comes from iron oxide exposed in the weathered siltstone. The darker, blue-gray rocks in the valley get their color from manganese oxide.The buttes are clearly stratified, with three principal layers. The lowest layer is Organ Rock shale, the middle de Chelly sandstone and the top layer is Moenkopi shale capped by Shinarump siltstone. The valley includes large stone structures including the famed Eye of the Sun.Between 1948 and 1967, the southern extent of the Monument Upwarp was mined for uranium, which occurs in scattered areas of the Shinarump siltstone; vanadium and copper are associated with uranium in some deposits (see Uranium mining in Arizona).The Valley in mediaMonument Valley has been featured in many forms of media since the 1930s. Appearances include movies, such as Westerns by Director John Ford, cartoons such as Chip n' Dale's Rescue Rangers and science fiction movies such as Back to the Future III; television appearances as in MacGyver; as well as DVD covers, book covers, and video games such as the Playstation 3 video game Motorstorm.TourismMonument Valley is officially a large area which includes much of the area surrounding Monument Valley Navajo Tribal Park, a Navajo Nation equivalent to a national park. Oljato, for example, is also within the area designated as Monument Valley. At the Park there is a visitor center, and a small convenience/souvenir shop and a restaurant. Visitors can pay an access fee and drive through the park on a 17-mile dirt road (a 2-3 hour trip). Tours are also available, and the fee varies between about $40 and $100 per person depending on the services provided and route. There are parts of Monument Valley which are only accessible by guided tour, such as Mystery Valley and Hunt's Mesa. Horseback rides are also available from various establishments both inside the park and in the general Monument Valley area, and rates vary widely depending on the length of the ride. Rides may be only an hour, or overnight camping trips. . Additionally, hot air balloon flights are available May 1st thru October 31st, and small airplane flights are sometimes available. Monument Valley is part of the Grand Circle, which includes the Grand Canyon, Mesa Verde, Bryce Canyon National Park, Zion Canyon National Park, Capitol Reef, Natural Bridges, Hovenweep, Arches National Park, and many other attractions.LodgingIt is often difficult to find a place to stay near Monument Valley during the peak tourist season (between April and September).http://navajo_nation.tripod.com/lodging.html retrieved July 27, 2008 Places to stay include The View Hotel at the rim of the valley, Goulding's Lodge, located about 10 miles from the park, and Bed and Breakfast establishments such as FireTree Bed and Breakfast, where guests can sleep in a traditionally built Navajo hogan.http://www.utah.com/lodging/monumentvalley.htm Utah.com listing of lodging in Monument Valley, retrieved July 27, 2008 Campgrounds are also available, including Goulding's campground, and a campground near the rim of the Valley operated by Monument Valley Navajo Tribal Park. There are also lodgings further from the park, in Bluff (50 miles), Mexican Hat (22 miles) and Kayenta (about 25 miles). Each small town has several motels, such as the Desert Rose Inn in Bluff, the Holiday Inn and Hampton Inn in Kayenta, and the San Juan Inn in Mexican Hat, located on a ledge above the San Juan River.http://navajonationparks.org/htm/monumentvalley.htm Official Navajo Tribal Parks and Recreation website, retrieved July 27, 2008ReferencesSee alsoAmateur video of Monument Valley (4 minutes, German and English) — documents rock formations and a Navajo hogan with a Native American spinning yarn and weaving cloth.External linksMonument Valley Navajo Tribal Park websiteMap of Monument ValleyAmerican Southwest GuideEnergy Information Administration notes on uranium mining and its decommissioningIMDb list of movies with scenes in Monument ValleyColumn from PopMatters.com on Monument Valley in filmPhoto Gallery of Monument ValleyVideo Montage of Monument ValleyGallery Image:MonumentValley_640px.jpg|East Mitten and West Mitten Buttes Image:John_fords_point_640.jpg|View from John Ford's Point Image:Northern_Window_Monumnet_Valley.jpg|The North Window Image:North_Window_Monument_Valley.jpg|The North Window Image:Monument_Valley_Totem_Pole.jpg|The Totem Pole Image:The_Thumb_(a_spire_in_Monument_Valley).jpg|The Thumb Image:Three_Sisters_(spires_in_Monument_Valley).jpg|Three Sisters Image:MonumentValleyNavajoNation.jpg|View from the Visitor's Center  Category:Colorado Plateau Category:Regions of Arizona Category:Valleys of Arizona Category:Rock formations in Arizona Category:Valleys of Utah Category:Rock formations in Utah Category:Regions of Utahar:مونومنت فالي bg:Долината на паметниците da:Monument Valley de:Monument Valley nv:Tsé Biiʼ Ndzisgaii es:Monument Valley eo:Monument Valley eu:Monument Valley fa:مانیومنت ولی fr:Monument Valley it:Monument Valley he:עמק מונומנט ka:მონუმენტის ხეობა lb:Monument Valley lt:Monumento slėnis nl:Monument Valley ja:モニュメント・バレー pl:Monument Valley pt:Monument Valley ru:Долина монументов fi:Monument Valley sv:Monument Valley th:หุบเขาโมนูเมนต์ tr:Monument Vadisi