   Aniplex   Madman Entertainment    FUNimation | network =  MBS, TBS, Animax | first = April 5 2007 | last = September 28 2007 | episodes = 25 | episode_list = List of Darker than Black episodes     is an anime television series by Tensai Okamura and Bones. It premiered across Japan from April 5 2007 on MBS, TBS, and its affiliated broadcast stations, with its satellite television premiere in Japan on Animax in May 2007. The music for the series is composed by Yoko Kanno. The series has also been adapted into a manga series, which is serialized in ''Monthly Asuka. The anime also was awarded Best Original Anime of The Year by GoGoplex a popular magazine for teens.StoryTen years ago, an inscrutable and abnormal territory known as Hell's Gate appeared in Tokyo and altered the sky and wreaked havoc on the landscape. The heavenly bodies disappeared, replaced by false stars. During this time, people who possess various special abilities emerged. Kept secret from the knowledge of the masses, these individuals, known as Contractors, are able to murder in cold blood. Various nations around the world use Contractors as spies and agents, often resulting in violent battles for information. Each fake star has a corresponding contractor, and they vibrate when their contractor's power is being used. As such, contractors are usually identified by their star's Messier catalogue number. However, their abilities are gained at the edge of their humanity. They are implied to lack human emotions which includes no aversions to murder, and they are regarded as extremely rational and logical in their decision making. Contractors are thus named because of their need to always complete a remuneration or payment each time their power is used (ie. eating flowers, breaking fingers, drinking blood). Contractors usually work for one of various rival Syndicates as spies and assassins.Main characters  The main protagonist and an elite Contractor with the Messier Code BK-201. Hei plays a gentle-hearted student from China named Li Shun Sheng (as shown on his ID card in episode 11) when undercover. He becomes an apathetic and guiltless killer when on his missions. Joining an organization of unknown ambitions known only as a Syndicate, Hei is searching for the whereabouts of his sister Bai, whom he lost several years ago when the South American gate imploded. Hei's contract allows him to generate electricity, and he is hotly pursued by the Japanese government for his involvement in multiple assassinations. He acts as the warrior/spy/assassin of his team. Also, the real Messier object with number 102 (201 backwards) is unidentified and ambiguous, which contributes to the ambiguity that surrounds Hei in the minds of both his own comrades and the police. A supporter in Hei's team. She is an emotionless spirit medium known as a "Doll". Very passive and speaking rarely, she is described as having no emotion and incapable of such processes (however as the series progresses she shows a slight human side with hints of emotion). Her primary function is to locate individuals, usually assassination targets, for the team. For this she uses her ability to see anything near water when she is touching water. Before the appearance of the Gates she lived in Finland as Kirsi (last name unknown) learning to play the piano under the tutelage of famed pianist Eelis Kostinen. Huang's position can be interpreted as that of field supervisor. He is a human and only possesses strategic abilities. He has a general dislike for contractors and voices it regularly in spite of having to work alongside three of them. Huang passes down orders from the Syndicate to the rest of the team. A Contractor who has lost his original body and now resides within that of a black cat. His messier code is HM-432. A very practical character, he is very interested in watching Hei react to situations in an unorthodox manner. He fears the Syndicate's disapproval and on occasion is able to receive direct orders from the top. His contract allows him to possess other animal bodies. The Section-Chief of the Foreign Affairs Division 4 who is investigating matters that concern Contractors. Misaki has long brown hair and glasses and rarely smiles or laughs. She has a strong sense of justice and a sharp intuition. Kirihara became a policewoman in order to protect the weak, has a distaste for smokers due to their smell, and is sensitive about the exposure of her body. She likes eating greasy food but claims to stay fit due to constantly moving around everyday as part of her job. Her father is Superintendent Supervisor Naoyasu Kirihara of the National Police Agency. She also is obsessed with finding the identity of BK-201 (codenamed Hei) whose involvement in all cases are shrouded in mystery and death. She occasionally hints a glint of affection towards Li (unknown to her as BK-201/Hei) whom she sees occasionally throughout the series due to him playing his role as a spy.Terminologyshowing the area affected by the Heaven's Gate.]]A powerful organization of Contractors led by Amber. Their stated goal is to reveal the existence of Contractors to the general public, and to promote their status as a new race/group of humans. Special rights and privileges for Contractors are also on their list of objectives.A mysterious and chaotic area of space that appeared in Tokyo ten years before the start of the series. Its appearance led to the rise of Contractors and Dolls. A massive wall has been constructed around it to keep civilians – or anyone else, for that matter – from entering. Several countries, including Japan, are cautiously conducting research on the Hell's Gate, exemplified by a top-secret research facility built next to the Gate Wall.Another chaotic area of space that appeared in South America and disappeared five years before the beginning of the series, along with everything in a 1500 km radius around it. Its exact nature at this point is unknown in the series. Its appearance apparently started a large-scale war, one that Great Britain and Argentina participated in. It also seems that Amber, Havoc, Hei, and his sister Bai, were involved in the War and were adversely affected by the Heaven's Gate's sudden disappearance. The area where the gate was became inaccessiblePANDORA (Physicalquantity Alternation Natural Deconstruction Organized Research Agency)A UN-operated research facility dedicated to studying the phenomena of Hell's Gate. Located on the edge of the gate within the walls, an international team of scientists examine the properties of the gate via manned and unmanned expeditions within. Paranormal phenomena akin to ghosts are not uncommon here, likely due to the lab's close proximity to the gate. Though run by the UN, it is not impervious to intelligence agencies; both the Syndicate and CIA have infiltrated almost every level of the research center. PANDORA has a heavily armed security force, consisting of armed soldiers possibly of various nationalities and armored vehicles, meant to protect its facilities and personnel.Contractors are individuals who have gained superhuman powers due to the appearance of the Hell's Gate and Heaven's Gate. The existence of Contractors is kept a secret from the general public by most governments around the world, but they are well-known to the higher echelons of society and in the criminal underworld. Contractors possess two other traits that give them a rather sinister reputation: the need to perform remuneration, which is a bizarre, obsessive compulsive "payment" for the use of their powers, and a generally pragmatic, Machiavellian world view. This is described by the Contractors themselves as a lack of emotion in general, but not much evidence exists to verify this claim. Many Contractors exhibit at least some forms of emotion, including love, joy, guilt, and sorrow.Later in the series it is explicitly revealed that Contractors are fully capable of experiencing emotions, but that those feelings do not play a prominent role in their thought processes. They are described as being totally rational, and totally amoral. The general rules seems to be that they feel no guilt, and they cannot form or retain social bonds. A normal Contractor cares, in essence, only about their own well-being, and everything is reduced to a cost/benefit analysis: Any other issues like laws, emotions, or the question of the sanctity of human life are irrelevant to them.Emotionless "mediums" created to mimic the forms of humans. Dolls can form a variety of functions; the most commonly seen in the series is their use of observer spirits, which serve as reconnaissance. Dolls have different mediums through which they can send their observer spirits and must be in contact with this medium while observing; for example, Yin's medium is water, through which she can send her observer spirit anywhere else there is water. A Doll can also act as the perfect sleeper agent. It can be given the memories and personality of another person and assume a person's personality perfectly, mimicking all their habits, dreams, and feelings until the time is right. Interestingly enough, a Doll by the name of Shinoda Chiaki seemed to have some "life" of her own by saving Hei from being killed by another Contractor. This suggests that Dolls, like Chiaki, can go beyond their "set" characteristics and become something else. Other examples include when Huang discovers Yin crying, July expressing confidence in himself and November 11 as a team, and Sakurai, a doll stolen by the yakuza, smiling as she runs away with one of their own.An intermediate between a Contractor and a Doll. Moratoria appear to be people with Contractor powers who do not require remuneration as part of their power. Unlike Contractors, they do not have control of their powers, shifting into a hypnotic state of unconsciousness as they use them. Moratoria also suffer from severe mental trauma as a result of their power. According to Mao, the chance of a Moratorium morphing into a Contractor is near zero, but possible.A Contractor who loses their powers in exchange for a flicker of hope for a normal life. There are very few known Regressors, and the way one becomes a Regressor is also unknown.An object coveted by many intelligence agencies and organizations, and once held at PANDORA. It seems to be connected to the appearance of Hell's Gate, however, PANDORA does not believe that it is of much importance as they had already discovered a similar substance in South America before Heaven's Gate disappeared. Its appearance resembles a large lens, and when inside the Hell's Gate, it displays an as of yet unexplained synchrotron light. The Meteor Fragment was first stolen by Nick for the CIA. It was then stolen by Hei who infiltrated the PANDORA installation by orders from the Syndicate. It was then obtained by Amber, who holds it to this day. This object seems to be able to create illusions of what the user wants to see.True to their names, all Contractors must pay a price for using their powers, whether they wish to or not. Moreover, it seems that the amount of payment required is dependent on how much the Contractor uses his/her power. Although this payment can be delayed, especially in the midst of combat, it is ultimately unavoidable. Each Contractor has a unique remuneration, reflecting the chaotic nature of the Hell's Gate. Remunerations are typically difficult for the Contractor and range in severity from irritating to painful. However, there have been a few contractors who enjoy their remuneration and at least one who uses it in conjunction with his own ability.Known remunerations includeAlteration of age, swiftly growing older or youngerArranging pebblesDrinking various fluids, such as hot milk, beer, or the blood of childrenEarmarking the pages of a bookEating various foods, such as boiled eggsInability to lieIntaking and regurgitating objectsKissing someonePlacing the shoes of the victim upside down on the groundRegaining human feelings for a brief timeSelf-mutilation or injury, including dislocating fingers and wrist-slittingSinging a songSleepingSmokingWriting poetryIt is also possible for a Contractor to fully pay off his Contract, but this is an incredibly rare feat, requiring a drastic and traumatic sacrifice. A good example of this is one of Hei's teammates, Mao. He paid off his Contract, but did so involuntarily at the cost of his body, forcing him to reside in the body of a cat.Anime Darker than Black premiered across Japan from April 5 2007 on MBS, TBS, and its affiliated broadcast stations, with its satellite television premiere in Japan on Animax in May 2007. Created, directed and written by Tensai Okamura, the music for the series is composed by Yoko Kanno. The anime will be released in North America by FUNimation. An OVA has been released on March 26 2008.StaffPlanning: Seiji Takeda (MBS), Masuo Ueda (Aniplex), Masahiko Minami (Bones), Takuo Minegishi (Hakuhodo DYMP)Original Concept: Bones, Tensai OkamuraOriginal Character Design: Yūji IwaharaCharacter Design and Chief Animation Director: Takahiro KomoriArt Design: Tomoaki Okada, Masahiro Satō, Eiji TaguchiDesign Works: Takayuki YanaseArt Director: Takashi Aoi (Green)Color Design: Nobuko MizutaDirector of Photography: Yoshiyuki TakeiEditing: Kyōko Ogino (Jay Film)Music: Yoko KannoSound Director: Kazuhiro Wakabayashi (Fonishia)Sound Effects: Shizuo Kurahashi, Sō Maibara (Soundbox)Sound Tuning: Tetsuya SatakeSound Assistance: Fumie IshikuraSound Studio: TV Tokyo CenterSound Production: FonishiaMusic Producers: Keiichi Tonomura, Toshiaki ŌtaMusic Production/Coordination: Aniplex, Borderline, Myrica MusicProducters: Hirō Maruyama (MBS), Ryō Ōyama (Aniplex), Yoshihiro Ōyabu (Bones), Osamu Hosokawa (Hakuhodo DYMP)Director and Series Composition: Tensai OkamuraAnimation Production: BonesProduction: DTB Production Committee (Aniplex, Bones, Hakuhodo DY Media Partners, Myrica Music, Movic), Mainichi Broadcasting SystemTheme songsOpening theme"Howling (Episode 1~14)"Performance: Abingdon Boys SchoolLabel: Epic Records JapanLyrics: Takanori NishikawaComposition: Hiroshi ShibasakiArrangement: Hiroshi Shibasaki, Shōji Morifuji, Toshiyuki Kishi"Kakusei Heroism ~The Hero Without a &quot;Name&quot;~ (Episode 15~23,25)"Performance: An CafeLabel: Music Ray'nEnding theme: (Episode 1~14)"Performance: Rie fuLabel: Palm Beach Inc.Lyrics and composition: Rie fuArrangement: Tadashi Ueda"Dreams (Episode 15~24)"Performance: High and Mighty ColorLabel: SME RecordsLyrics: Maakii and YuusukeComposition: High and Mighty ColorOriginal SoundtrackThe original soundtrack was composed by Yoko Kanno in 2007 and contents a total of 20 tracks inlcuding the first opening and ending themes performed by Abingdon boys school and Rie fu. Other non-instrumental songs were written by Tim Jensen and performed by Mai Yamane (tracks 8, 10) and James Wendt (tracks 14, 19).Go Dark (3:14)HOWLING - TV size ver. (1:29) (3:28)Tenderly (2:19) (2:04)Was (4:08)''Outside (2:36)No One's Home (2:43)Guy (2:02)ScatCat (2:02) (3:34)Shadow (2:45) (3:38)Deadly Work (3:36) (0:45)BlueCat (3:08) (1:32)Water Forest (2:11)Blend in (3:14) (3:11)Sources: Broadcast stationsBroadcast networkBroadcast termBroadcast day and timings (in JST)Mainichi Broadcasting SystemApril 5 2007～Thursdays 25:25 ~ 25:55Hokkaido BroadcastingThursdays 26:10 ～26:40Chubu-Nippon BroadcastingThursdays 26:55～27:25TBSApril 6 2007～Fridays 25:55～26:25Touhoku Broadcasting CompanyFridays 26:15～26:45Shizuoka Broadcasting SystemFridays 26:15～26:45RCC Broadcasting CompanyApril 7 2007～Saturdays 26:40～27:10RKK Kumamoto BroadcastingApril 8 2007Sundays 26:30～27:00Sanyo BroadcastingApril 9 2007～Mondays 26:25～26:55RKB Mainichi BroadcastingApril 10 2007～Tuesdays 26:28～26:58AnimaxMay 8 2007～May 8 2007～May 9, 2007～23：00～23：30 28:00～28:3014:30～15:00The series replaced the first run of the Sunrise series Code Geass: Lelouch of the Rebellion in MBS's Thursday 25:25pm timeslot. The series is also being aired on a streaming basis on the Japanese Internet website Nifty, with episodes being streamed a week after its initial television airing. MBS's 25:25pm timeslot/TBS's 25:55pm timeslot  Previous series Darker than Black''-Kuro no Keiyakusha-'' Proceeding series  Code Geass: Lelouch of the Rebellion   ProductionAt one point, the show’s production manager ran away with the manuscript.Darker than Black uses product placement as a method of advertising. Logos of companies Pizza Hut, @nifty, and Coca-Cola can be seen throughout the series, and contractor April is often seen drinking Guinness beer for her remuneration.Second seasonAccording to a file anonymously leaked on the website uploader.jp, bones has plans to create a second season for Darker than Black. However in an official statement Masahiko Minami told AnimeNewsNetwork"It hasn't been decided yet. We are interested in doing them. As original science-fiction works, they were extremely fascinating. With these kinds of dramatic story lines, I feel that there's a lot we could do potentially." ReferencesExternal linksOfficial homepage Official homepage (MBS) Animax's official homepage anime@nifty Funimation Official PageCategory:Anime of 2007 Category:Anime of 2008 Category:Anime with original screenplays Category:Aniplex Category:Bones (studio) Category:Darker than Black Category:Funimation Entertainment Category:Shōjo Category:Neo-noir Category:Mystery anime and manga Category:Supernatural anime and mangade:Darker than Black es:Darker than black fr:Darker than Black ko:흑의 계약자 it:Darker than Black nl:Darker than Black (anime) ja:DARKER THAN BLACK -黒の契約者- pl:Darker than Black pt:Darker than Black ru:Darker than Black zh:黑之契約者