John XI (910?&ndash;December, 935) was Pope from March, 931 to December, 935.ParentageThe parentage of John XI is still a matter of dispute. According to Liutprand of Cremona (Antapodosis, ii. c. 48) and the "Liber Pontificalis," he was the natural son of Pope Sergius III (904–911), ("Johannes, natione Romanus ex patre Sergio papa," "Liber Pont." ed. Duchesne, II, 243). Ferdinand Gregorovius,&lt;/ref&gt; [[Ernst Dümmler]], Thomas Greenwood (''Cathedra Petri: A Political History of the great Latin Patriarchate''), [[Philip Schaff]], and Rudolf Baxmann&lt;ref&gt; agree with Liutprand that Pope Sergius III fathered Pope John XI by Marozia. If that is true, John XI would be the only known illegitimate son of a Pope to have become Pope himself. (Silverius was the legitimate son of Pope Hormisdas). On the other hand, Horace Kinder Mann, "Sergius at once declared the ordinations conferred by Formosus null; but that he put his two predecessors to death, and by illicit relations with Marozia had a son, who was afterwards John XI, must be regarded as highly doubtful. These assertions are only made by bitter or ill-informed adversaries, and are inconsistent with what is said of him by respectable contemporaries as [[Flodoard]]."  Reginald L. Poole,&lt;/ref&gt; Peter Llewelyn (''Rome in the Dark Ages''), [[Karl Josef von Hefele]], August Friedrich Gfrörer,&lt;ref&gt; Ludovico Antonio Muratori, and Francis Patrick Kenrick maintain that Pope John XI was sired by Alberic I of Spoleto, Count of Tusculum.PontificateHis mother was the Roman ruler at the time, resulting in his appointment to the Chair of Peter. Marozia was thus allegedly able to exert complete control over the Pope.At the overthrow of Marozia, John XI reportedly became subject to the control of Alberic II (932-954), his younger brother. The only control left to the Pope was the exercise of his purely spiritual duties. All other jurisdiction was exercised through Alberic II. This was not only the case in secular, but also in ecclesiastical affairs.It was at the insistence of Alberic II that the pallium was given to Theophylactus, Patriarch of Constantinople (935), and also to Artold, Archbishop of Reims (933). It was John XI who sat in the Chair of Peter during what some traditional Catholic sources consider its deepest humiliation, but it was also he who granted many privileges to the Congregation of Cluny, which was later on a powerful agent of Church reform.See alsoPornocracyReferencesMaroziaExternal linksJohn XI at Find-A-GraveOpera Omnia by Migne Patrologia Latina with analytical indexes       John 11 John 11 John 11 Category:910 births Category:936 deaths Category:Illegitimate children of Popesaf:Pous Johannes XI ca:Joan XI cs:Jan XI. de:Johannes XI. (Papst) es:Juan XI fr:Jean XI gl:Xoán XI, papa hy:Հովհաննես XI (Հռոմի պապ) ko:교황 요한 11세 id:Paus Yohanes XI it:Papa Giovanni XI jv:Paus Yohanes XI sw:Papa Yohane XI la:Ioannes XI hu:XI. János pápa nl:Paus Johannes XI ja:ヨハネス11世 (ローマ教皇) pl:Papież Jan XI pt:Papa João XI ro:Papa Ioan al XI-lea ru:Иоанн XI (папа римский) fi:Johannes XI sv:Johannes XI tl:Juan XI th:สมเด็จพระสันตะปาปาจอห์นที่ 11 uk:Іоанн XI zh:若望十一世