   Beijing, China | key_people = | industry = Television Broadcasting | products = Television content, Television programming | revenue = | operating_income = | net_income = | num_employees = | parent = State Administration of Radio, Film, and Television | subsid = | homepage = www.cctv.com | footnotes =  China Central Television or Chinese Central Television, commonly abbreviated as CCTV () is the major television broadcaster in Mainland China. Organizationally, it is a statutory agency within the State Administration of Radio, Film, and Television which is subordinate to the State Council of the People's Republic of China. Its editorial independence is subject to government policy considerations. CCTV has a network of 18 channels broadcasting different programming and reaching more than a billion viewers on the Chinese mainland. http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/22/sports/olympics/22cctv.html?_r=1&amp;partner=rssnyt&amp;emc=rss&amp;oref=slogin&lt;/ref&gt;Its news reporting follows policy regulated by the State Administration of Radio, Film, and Television which is directly administered by the Central People's Government and by default the Communist Party of China. Most of its programming, however, is a mix of documentaries, comedy, entertainment and dramatic programming, the majority of which consists of Chinese soap operas and entertainment. Like many media outlets in China, CCTV had its state subsidy reduced dramatically in the 1990s, and hence finds it necessary to balance its role as a government agency with the practical fact that it must attract viewers so that it can sell commercial advertising to become more of a for profit state owned corporation. http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/22/sports/olympics/22cctv.html?_r=1&amp;partner=rssnyt&amp;emc=rss&amp;oref=slogin&lt;/ref&gt;In searching for viewers, CCTV has found itself in competition with local television stations (which are also state run) which have been creating increasingly large media groups in order to compete with CCTV.HistoryCCTV first broadcast on September 2, 1958, under the name Television Chine, after an experimental broadcast on May 1 1958. The name was changed to CCTV on May 1, 1978. In September 2, 2008, the new CCTV Headquarters has open for the CCTV's 50th anniversary.At the end of 1970s, like many other Chinese TV stations, CCTV only had one channel. At that time, it only had evening programs, with the broadcast usually ending at midnight. During the summer and winter time, it occasionally broadcasts during daytime for the students who were on their breaks. But by 1985, CCTV was China's major television network. In 1987, CCTV became famous for its faithful adaption of Dream of the Red Chamber. It was a 36-episode TV series or "Hong Lou Meng" Today that series is available on DVD and is still very popular.Today, CCTV has 16 national channels, most with 24-hour broadcasting, and a High Definition channel; at times airing certain US programs such as CSI: New York, CSI: Miami, 24 and Lost, Documentaries, Movies, and new Chinese television series shot in HD.Programs's CCTV Tower, the tallest building in the city.]]Its thirty-minute evening news, Xinwen Lianbo ("network news", "news relay"), is on the air at 7:00 PM Beijing Time. By far, it is the most known and watched news program in China which mainland Chinese watch to keep up with the government's politics. Although news reform has been a prominent feature of CCTV networks, the Evening News has remained relatively the same since its first appearance in the early 1980s, having mainly focused on leaders receiving foreign guests and going on visits to foreign countries, the CPC's leaders having top meetings or conferences, and stories of courage that are supposed to exemplify one form or another of communism. Many important political news stories are broadcast through that program. This program is uploaded onto YouTube daily by Duowei, a Chinese news network.Its yearly special program of celebrating the Chinese New Year, the CCTV New Year's Gala, is the most watched program. In 2007 research data shows that the Gala was watched by over 800 million people all over the world. It started in the early 1980s. Each year, some singers and comedians become famous because of their single performance that night.Personalities Producing a variety of different programming, China Central Television has a number of different program hosts, news anchors, correspondents, and contributors which appear throughout daily programing on the network.CCTV-1 (National network) anchorsLi Yong (gameshows and CCTV New Year's Gala)Xing Zhibin, Luo Jing - National News (Xinwen lianbo)CCTV-9 (English network) program hostsJames Aitken - Hourly NewsAurora Carlson - Rediscovering ChinaJames Chau - World InsightYin Chen - TravelogueDang Bing - Nature and ScienceLi Dongning (newscaster) - CCTV NewsMarc Edwards (TV) - TravelogueLiang Honn - Asia TodayJennifer Hsiung - Sports SceneEyee Hsu - Up CloseJi Xiao Jun - Culture Express, New FrontiersMichele Lean - Travelogue, Center StageLiu Xin - World Wide WatchEdwin Maher - CCTV NewsMark &quot;Dashan&quot; Rowswell - Communicate in ChineseAlistair Shewring - Sports SceneJa Thamrong - Biz ChinaTian Wei - DialogueYang Rui - "Dialogue"Zhao Bin - DocumentaryZhu Jun - Around ChinaCCTV-9 correspondents and substitute anchorsJennifer Eden - WeatherHalla Mohieddeen - WeatherRosemary Lodge - WeatherChannelsCCTV has 37 different open channels of programming content and competes with television stations run by local governments such as BTV and foreign programming which can be readily received via satellite television. The CCTV channels are listed in sequential order with no discerning descriptions, e.g. CCTV-1, CCTV-2, etc, similar to those channels in Europe and in other places around the world.The eighteen channels are:CCTV-1 PublicCCTV-2 EconomicsCCTV-3 Arts and EntertainmentCCTV-4 International, in ChineseCCTV-5 SportsCCTV-6 FilmsCCTV-7 Military/Agriculture/ChildrenCCTV-8 TV seriesCCTV-9 International, in EnglishCCTV-10 Science and EducationCCTV-11 Chinese Traditional Opera (Including Peking Opera, Kun Qu, etc)CCTV-12 Society and LawCCTV-News -- 24-hour NewsCCTV-Children -- Children's channelCCTV-Music -- Classic and Folk MusicCCTV-E -- in SpanishCCTV-F -- in FrenchCCTV-HD -- High-definition programmingOverseas broadcastingIt is possible to receive channels CCTV-4 (overseas channel targeted at an oversea Chinese audience), CCTV-9 (overseas channel targeted at an English-speaking audience), CCTV-E (overseas channel targeted at Spanish-speaking audiences) and CCTV-F (similar channel for French-speakers) outside China by using a Digital Video Broadcast signal. CCTV has just recently switched from analog to DVB primarily due to better signal quality and the ability to charge for reception (about 10 USD per year subscription). The overseas channels are widely available across many cable and satellite providers.The English language CCTV-9 feed is available in the United States on Dish Network Channel 265. It was previously also televised on DirecTV via channel 455 which ended on Monday, August 25th, 2008. CCTV-9 is also available in the United States on Time Warner Cable, channel 134 and Cox Cable, channel 322 in most areas. In the United Kingdom, CCTV-9 is available on Sky Digital channel 511. In Barbados, CCTV 9 is available via the subscription service Multi-Choice TV on channel 209. CCTV-9 is also available as a live feed from their website. The Spanish service (CCTV E) is available on Dish Network Channel 884, but not from DirecTV at this time. The Chinese language channels CCTV-1, CCTV-3 and CCTV-6 are also available via Dish Network's Great Wall TV Package and Rogers Cable in Canada.Additionally CCTV is broadcasted over a video over the Internet service named Kylin TV.CCTV-4 split into 3 channels beginning April 1, 2007, namely CCTV International Asia, CCTV International Europe, and CCTV International America, in order to improve service for audiences around the world.The CCTV channels 1, 2, 4, 7, 9-12, E and F can be seen live anywhere on CCTV.com for free. However the actual live International Olympics coverage being held in Beijing from 8 August, 2008 is blacked out due to regulations of the International Olympics Committee.See alsoMedia of the People's Republic of ChinaList of Chinese language television channelsCCTV New Year's Gala (中国中央电视台春节联欢晚会)CCTV Headquarters opened in September 2008ReferencesExternal linksCCTV Official Site CCTV CCTV CCTV CCTV-HD Official Site CCTV News Channel Site CCTV-2 site  Category:China Central Television Category:Foreign television channels broadcasting in the United Kingdom Category:Chinese television Category:Publicly funded broadcasters Category:Cable TV of Hong Kongzh-min-nan:Tiong-iong Tiān-sī-tâi de:China Central Television es:China Central Television fr:Télévision centrale de Chine ko:중국중앙방송 id:CCTV it:China Central Television hu:Kínai Központi Televízió ms:Televisyen Pusat China nl:China Central Television ja:中国中央電視台 no:China Central Television nn:China Central Television pl:China Central Television pt:CCTV ru:Центральное телевидение Китая fi:CCTV sv:China Central Television vi:CCTV zh:中国中央电视台