   The Democratic Republic of Vietnam (DRVN), or less commonly, Vietnamese Democratic Republic () was a country on the northern half of Vietnam. It was proclaimed by Hồ Chí Minh in Hà Nội on September 2, 1945 with a declaration of independence, following the August Revolution, as a communist provisional government. It gathered Tonkin and Annam, provinces of the French Indochina. North Vietnam won the Second Indochina War, which is referred to outside the region as the "Vietnam Conflict", the "war in Viet Nam" , or more simply, "Vietnam". The government of North Vietnam took over South Vietnam and it became the larger Vietnam that exists today with the same political system and organization.Partition of Indochina Following the partition of Vietnam in 1954 at the end of the First Indochina War, thousands of Vietnamese migrated to either the North and to the South. For example, an estimated 800,000 Catholics moved south. United Nations High Commission on Refugees. 2000. The State of the World's Refugees 2000: Fifty Years of Humanitarian Action. Oxford University Press. from. The Catholic migration is attributed to perceived persecution of Catholics by the North Vietnamese government, as well as scare campaigns employed by the Saigon government of the Catholic Ngo Dinh Diem.  Truong Nhu Tang. 1986. A Viet Cong Memoir. Vintage. Concurrently, an estimated 130,000 people from South Việtnam who supported the Viet Minh headed for the North with the aid of Polish and Soviet ships.United Nations High Commission on Refugees. 2000. The State of the World's Refugees 2000: Fifty Years of Humanitarian Action. Oxford University Press. from.Between 1953 and 1956, the DRVN government instituted various agrarian reforms, including land redistribution. Large landowners were publicly denounced as landlords (địa chủ), and their land distributed to poor and middle peasants.A literary movement called Nhân văn-Giai phẩm (from the names of the two magazines which started the movement) attempted to encourage the democratization of the country and the free expression of thought.International relationsThe Democratic Republic of Vietnam (North Vietnam) capital was Hà Nội and its government was led by the left-nationalist Vietnam Workers' Party, which had been formed in opposition to foreign (French and Japanese) involvement in the territory of Vietnam.In December 1960, the Vietnam Workers' Party co-initiated and began working within the National Liberation Front of South Vietnam (referred to by the South as the Việt Cộng) which was organized to support reunification and oppose the government of South Vietnam. After August 1964, this was expanded to armed opposition to the military presence and operations of the United States in the southern areas of Vietnam. Truong Nhu Tang. 1986. A Viet Cong Memoir. Vintage. From at least 1965 onwards, both China and the Soviet Union provided aid to North Vietnam in support of its military activities; known in the West as the Vietnam War and in Vietnam as the American War.In June 1969, in the South, the NLF formed a Provisional Revolutionary Government in order to present an organized alternative government to the international community. Truong Nhu Tang. 1986. A Viet Cong Memoir. Vintage.In addition to the NLF, other nationalist insurgencies also operated within neighboring Laos and Cambodia, both formerly part of the French colonial territory of Indochina.The Fall of SaigonWith the fall of Saigon to National Liberation Front and regular North Vietnamese armed forces on April 30, 1975, political authority within South Vietnam was assumed by the Provisional Revolutionary Government of the Republic of South Vietnam. This government merged with Democratic Republic of Vietnam on July 2, 1976, to form a single nation officially called the Democratic Republic of Vietnam (Cộng Hoà Xã Hội Chủ Nghĩa Việt Nam), or more commonly known as Việt Nam.ReferencesSee alsoAugust RevolutionVietnamFlag of North VietnamSouth VietnamIndochina WarsHồ Chí MinhSocialist StatePeople's Army of VietnamNorthern and southern VietnamExternal linksDeclaration of Independence of the Democratic Republic of VietnamCategory:1976 disestablishments Category:Former polities 1945-1991 Category:Vietnam War Vietnam, North Vietnam, North Vietnam, North Category:First Indochina War Category:Indochina Wars Category:Former countries in history of Vietnamar:شمال فيتنام zh-min-nan:Oa̍t-lâm Bîn-chú Kiōng-hô-kok ca:República Democràtica de Vietnam cs:Severní Vietnam da:Nordvietnam de:Nordvietnam es:Vietnam del Norte eo:Nord-Vjetnamio fa:ویتنام شمالی fr:République démocratique du Viêt Nam ko:북베트남 id:Vietnam Utara it:Vietnam del Nord he:צפון וייטנאם sw:Vietnam Kaskazini ms:Vietnam Utara nl:Noord-Vietnam ja:ベトナム民主共和国 no:Nord-Vietnam pl:Wietnam Północny pt:Vietname do Norte ru:Демократическая Республика Вьетнам simple:North Vietnam sl:Severni Vietnam sv:Nordvietnam th:ประเทศเวียดนามเหนือ vi:Việt Nam Dân chủ Cộng hòa zh:越南民主共和国