Ismail Kadare (born January 28, 1936) is a world-renowned Albanian writer. In 1992, he was awarded the Prix mondial Cino Del Duca; in 2005, he won the inaugural Booker International Prize. He has divided his time between Albania and France since 1990. He is a Nobel Prize in Literature candidate.BiographyIsmail Kadare was born in Gjirokastër, Albania in 1936. He first studied at the Faculty of History and Philology at the University of Tirana and later at the Maxim Gorky Literature Institute in Moscow. His wife, Elena Gushi-Kadare, is also an Albanian writer. In the 1960s, his works reflected the Albanian literature of Socialist Realism and post-communist Albania.In 1990, immediately before the fall of communism in Albania, Kadare sought asylum in France. During the ordeal, he stated that "dictatorship and authentic literature are incompatible... The writer is the natural enemy of dictatorship." However, during the dictatorship, he had written extensively about the success of socialism and had been part of the communist propaganda. Kadare played the very delicate game of trying to please both the communist government and its critics. Today he is a controversial figure in Albania, considered by many a great writer and by many others a leftover of the communist regime.DissidenceOpinions differ on whether Kadare was a dissident or a conformist during the communist period. On several occasions, Kadare has denied that he was a dissident. For instance, in an interview in November 2006 on Albanian "TV Klan", Kadare answered as follows:Question from Blendi Fevziu: ''Mister Kadare, have you ever tried to present yourself as dissident, even through others? ''Ismail Kadare answering: Absolutely not. Others have said this, and I could not do anything when foreign journalists wrote "The dissident author Ismail Kadare...".Arguments forOthers believe that some of his works, such as The Palace of Dreams, make strong parallels showing the evil of the communist regime.In a political and literary environment completely and fiercely controlled by the state, Kadare's writing was for many the only window to anything approaching reality, let alone resistance.Having been sentenced to temporary exile, he was forced to produce some works praising the regime and paying lip-service to its "achievements."Yet, in other works, Kadare purported to show that Albania's greatness extended beyond the Communist regime and that life could be beautiful without the (failing) Communist ideal.Kadare himself has been quoted as saying that he never claimed to be a dissident, that "dissidence was a position no one could occupy, even for a few days, without facing the firing squad. On the other hand, my books themselves constitute a very obvious form of resistance."He has referred to The Great Winter as "the price he had to pay for freedom".RecognitionKadare's works have been published in over forty countries. He has been a candidate for the Nobel Prize in Literature and in 2005 he received the inaugural Man Booker International Prize.See alsoAlbanian literatureAlbanian cultureReferencesExternal linksWinning the first Man Booker International Prize, as reported by the BBC.Ismail Kadare -- Photos by Mathieu Bourgois.Ismail Kadare, Novelist From The 'Balkan Fringe,' Receives Top Literary Award - Kadare's interview to RFE/RLBiography at bbc.co.uk.New Yorker article by Ismail KadareInterview (09/1998) Category:1936 births Category:Albanian atheists Category:Former Muslims Category:Albanian writers Category:Living peoplebe-x-old:Ісмаіль Кадарэ bs:Ismail Kadare bg:Исмаил Кадаре ca:Ismail Kadare cs:Ismail Kadare da:Ismail Kadaré de:Ismail Kadare el:Ισμαήλ Κανταρέ es:Ismail Kadare fa:اسماعیل کاداره fr:Ismail Kadare it:Ismail Kadare hu:Ismail Kadare nl:Ismail Kadare ja:イスマイル・カダレ no:Ismail Kadaré pl:Ismail Kadare pt:Ismail Kadaré ro:Ismail Kadare ru:Кадаре, Исмаил sq:Ismail Kadare fi:Ismail Kadare sv:Ismail Kadare tr:İsmail Kadare ur:اسمٰعیل کدارے vo:Ismail Kadare