 | birth_place = Paris, France | death_date =  | death_place = Buenos Aires, Argentina | residence = Buenos Aires, Argentina | citizenship = Argentina | ethnicity = Basque | field = Biochemistry | work_institution =University of Buenos AiresWashington University in St. Louis (1943-1944)Columbia University (1944-1945)Fundación Instituto Campomar (1947-1981)University of Cambridge (1936-1943) | alma_mater = University of Buenos Aires | known_for = galactosemialactose intolerancecarbohydrate metabolism | prizes = Nobel Prize in Chemistry (1970)French Legion of Honor (1982) Luis Federico Leloir (September 6,1906 – December 2, 1987) was an Argentine doctor and biochemist who received the 1970 Nobel Prize in Chemistry. He was the first Spanish-speaking scientist to ever receive the award. Although born in France, Leloir received the majority of his education at the University of Buenos Aires and was director of the private research group Fundación Instituto Campomar until his death in 1987. Although his laboratories were often plagued by lack of financial support and second-rate equipment, his research into sugar nucleotides, carbohydrate metabolism, and renal hypertension has garnered international attention and fame and has led to significant progress in understanding, diagnosing and treating the congenital disease galactosemia. Luis Leloir is buried in La Recoleta Cemetery, Buenos Aires.BiographyEarly yearsLeloir's parents, Federico and Hortensia Aguirre Leloir, traveled from Buenos Aires to Paris in the middle of 1906 with the intention of operating on Federico's illness. However, Federico died in late August, and a week later Luis was born in an old house at 81 Víctor Hugo Road in Paris, a few blocks away from the Arc de TriumphLuis Federico Leloir, &quot;Long Ago and Far Away&quot;. After returning to Argentina in 1908, Leloir lived together with his eight siblings on their family's extensive property El Tuyú that his grandparents had purchased after their immigration from the Basque Country of northern Spain. &lt;/ref&gt;CareerBuenos AiresAfter returning again to Argentina, Leloir obtained his Argentine citizenship and joined the Department of Medicine at the University of Buenos Aires in hopes of receiving his doctorate. However, he got off to a rocky start, requiring four attempts to pass his anatomy exam.Valeria Roman, "A cien años del nacimiento de Luis Federico Leloir" web:http://www.clarin.com/diario/2006/08/27/sociedad/s-01259864.htm&lt;/ref&gt; He finally received his diploma in 1932 and began his residency in the Hospital de Clínicas and his medical internship in Ramos Mejía hospital. After some initial conflicts with colleagues and complications in his method of treating patients, Leloir decided to dedicate himself to research in the laboratory, claiming that "we could do little for our patients... antibiotics, psychoactive drugs, and all the new therapeutic agents were unknown the time".In 1933, he met Bernardo A. Houssay, who pointed Leloir towards investigating in his doctoral thesis the suprarenal glands and carbohydrate metabolism. Houssay happened to be friends with Carlos Bonorino Udaondo, the brother-in-law of Victoria Ocampo, one of Leloir's cousins. Following the recommendation of Udaondo, Leloir began working with Houssay, who in 1947 would later win the Nobel Prize for Physiology or Medicine. The two would develop a close relationship, collaborating on various projects until Houssay's death in 1971; in his lecture after winning the Nobel Prize, Leloir claimed that his "whole research career has been influenced by one person, Prof. Bernardo A. Houssay".Luis Leloir, "Two decades of research on the biosynthesis of saccharides" web:http://nobelprize.org/nobel_prizes/chemistry/laureates/1970/leloir-lecture.html&lt;/ref&gt;CambridgeAfter only two years, Leloir received recognition from the medical department at UBA for having produced the best doctoral thesis. Feeling that his knowledge in fields such as physics, mathematics, chemistry, and biology was lacking, he continued attending classes at the University as a part-time student. In 1936 he traveled to England to begin advanced studies at the University of Cambridge, under the supervision of another Nobel Prize winner, Sir Frederick Gowland Hopkins, who had obtained that distinction in 1929 for his work in physiology and in revealing the critical role of vitamins in maintaining good health. Leloir's research in the Biochemical Laboratory of Cambridge centered around enzymes, more specifically the effects of cyanide and pyrophosphate on succinic dehydrogenase; from this moment Leloir began to specialize in researching carbohydrate metabolism.United StatesLeloir returned to Buenos Aires in 1937 after his brief stay at Cambridge. 1943 saw Leloir marry; Luis Leloir and Amelia Zuberbuhler would later have a daughter also named Amelia. However, his return to Argentina was amidst conflict and strife; Houssay had been expelled from the University of Buenos Aires for signing a public petition opposing the fascist Nazi regime in Germany and the military government led by Pedro Pablo Ramírez. Leloir fled to the United States, where he assumed the position of associate professor in the Department of Pharmacology at Washington University in St. Louis, collaborating with Carl Cori and Gerty Cori and thereafter worked with David E. Green at the College of Pysicians and Surgeons, Columbia University as a research assistant. Leloir would late credit Green with instilling within him the initiative to establish his own research group once back in Argentina.Fundación Instituto CampomarIn 1945 Leloir ended his exile and returned to Argentina to work under Houssay at the Instituto de Investigaciones Bioquímicas de la Fundación Campomar, which Leloir would direct from its creation in 1947 by businessman and patron Jaime Campomar. Initially, the institute was composed of five rooms, a bathroom, central hall, patio, kitchen, and changing room.Ariel Barrios Medina, "Luis Federico Leloir (1906-1987): un esbozo biográfico" web: http://www.houssay.org.ar/hh/bio/leloir.htm&lt;/ref&gt; During the final years of the 1940s, although lacking financial resources and operating with very low-cost teams, Leloir's successful experiments would reveal the chemical origins of sugar synthesis in yeast as well as the oxidation of fatty acids in the liver; together with J. M. Muñoz, he produce an active cell-free system, a first in scientific research. It had initially been assumed that in order to study a cell, scientists could not separate it from its host organism, as oxidation could only occur in intact cells.Nicole Kresge, Robert D. Simoni, and Robert L. Hill, "Luis F. Leloir and Biosynthesis of Saccharides" web:http://www.jbc.org/cgi/content/full/280/19/e16&lt;/ref&gt; Along the way, Muñoz and Leloir, unable to procure the costly centrifuge needed to separate cell contents, improvised by spinning a tire stuffed with salt and ice.Ariel Barrios Medina, "Luis Federico Leloir (1906-1987): un esbozo biográfico" web: http://www.houssay.org.ar/hh/bio/leloir.htm&lt;/ref&gt;By 1947 he had formed a team that included Rawell Caputo, Enrico Cabib, Raúl Trucco, Alejandro Paladini, Carlos Cardini y José Luis Reissig, with whom he investigated and discovered why a malfunctioning kidney and angiotensin helped cause hypertension."The Substance Causing Renal Hypertension"(E. Braun-Menedez, J.C. Fasciolo, L.F. Leloir, J.M. Muñoz)The Journal of Physiology(1940) no.98 pg.283-298 That same year, his colleague Rawell Caputo, in his investigations of the mammary gland, made discoveries regarding carbohydrate storage and its subsequent transformation into a reserve energy form in organisms.. Leloir and his team discovered that in galactosemia, patients lacked the necessary enzyme (Galactose-1-phosphate uridylyltransferase) to convert unusable galactose into usable glucose.]] At the beginning of 1948, Leloir and his team identified the sugar nucleotides that were fundamental to the metabolism of carbohydrates, turning the Instituo Campomar into a biochemistry institution well-known throughout the world. Immediately thereafter, Leloir received the Argentine Scientific Society Prize, one of the many awards he would receive both in Argentina and internationally. During this time, his team dedicated itself to the study of glycoproteins; Leloir and his colleagues elucidated the primary mechanisms of galactose metabolism (now coined the Leloir pathwayHolton JB, Walter JH, and Tyfield LA. “Galactosemia” in The Metabolic and Molecular Bases of Inherited Disease, 8th edition, 2001. Scriver, Beaudet, et al., McGraw-Hill, vol I, chapter 72 , p.1553-1587.) and determined the cause of galactosemia, a serious genetic disorder that resulted in lactose intolerance.The following year, he reached an agreement with Roland Garcia, dean of the Department of Natural Sciences at UBA, which named Leloir, Carlos Eugenio Cardini and Enrico Cabib as titular professors in the University's newly founded Biochemical Institute. The Institute would help develop scientific programs in budding Argentinian universities as well as attract researchers and scholars from the United States, Japan, England, France, Spain, and other Latin American countries.Following Campomar's death in 1957, Leloir and his team applied to the National Institutes of Health in the United States desperate for funding, and surprisingly was accepted. In 1958, the Institute found a new home in a former all-girls school, a donation from the Argentine government. As Leloir and his research gained greater prominence, further research came from the Argentine Research Council, and the Institute would later become associated with the University of Buenos Aires.World of Scientific Discovery, Thomas Gale, Thomson Corporation, 2005-2006Later years1970 after winning the Nobel Prize.]] As his work in the laboratory was coming to an end, Leloir continued his teaching position in the Department of Natural Sciences at the University of Buenos Aires, taking a hiatus only to complete his studies at Cambridge and at the Enzyme Research Laboratory in the United States.In 1983, Leloir became one of the founding members of the Third World Academy of Sciences.Nobel PrizeOn December 2nd, 1970, Leloir received the Nobel Prize for Chemistry from the King of Sweden for his discovery of the metabolic pathways in lactose, becoming only the third Argentine to receive the prestigious honor in any field. In his acceptance speech at Stockholm, he borrowed Winston Churchill's famous 1940 speech to the House of Commons and remarked, "never have I received so much for so little".Nobelprize.org: "Luis Leloir- Banquet Speech" web:http://nobelprize.org/nobel_prizes/chemistry/laureates/1970/leloir-speech.html&lt;/ref&gt; Leloir and his team reportedly celebrated by drinking champagne from test tubes, a rare departure from the humbleness and frugality that characterized the atmosphere of Fundación Instituto Campomar under Leloir's direction. The $80,000 prize money was spent directly on research,Valeria Roman, "A cien años del nacimiento de Luis Federico Leloir" web:http://www.clarin.com/diario/2006/08/27/sociedad/s-01259864.htm&lt;/ref&gt; and when asked about the significance of his achievement, Leloir humbly responded: LegacyLeloir published a short autobiography, entitled "Long Ago and Far Away" in the 1983 Annual Review of Biochemistry. The title, Leloir claims, is derived from one of William Henry Hudson's novels that depicted the country wildlife and scenery of Leloir's childhood.He died in Buenos Aires December 2, 1987 of a heart attack soon after returning to his home from the laboratory, and is buried in La Recoleta Cemetery. Mario Bunge, a friend and colleague of Leloir, claims that his lasting legacy was proving that "scientific research on an international level, although precarious, was possible in an underdeveloped country in the middle of political strife" and credits Leloir's vigilance and will for his ultimate success.Mario Bunge, "Luis F. Leloir" web:http://www.clubdelprogreso.com/index.php?sec=04_05&amp;sid=43&amp;id=2513&lt;/ref&gt; With his research in dire financial straits, Leloir often resorted to homemade gadgets and contraptions to continue his work in the laboratory. In one instance, Leloir reportedly used waterproof cardboard to create makeshift gutters in order to protect his laboratory's library from the rain.World of Scientific Discovery, Thomas Gale, Thomson Corporation, 2005-2006Leloir was known for his humbleness, focus and consistency, described by many as a "true monk in science".Valeria Roman, "A cien años del nacimiento de Luis Federico Leloir" web:http://www.clarin.com/diario/2006/08/27/sociedad/s-01259864.htm&lt;/ref&gt; Every morning his wife Amelia would drive him in their Fiat 600 and drop him off at 1719 Julián Alvarez Street, location of Fundación Instituto Campomar, with Leloir wearing the same worn out, gray overalls. He worked sitting on the same straw seat for decades and encouraged colleagues to eat lunch in the laboratory to save time, bringing enough meat stew to share with everyone.Valeria Roman, "A cien años del nacimiento de Luis Federico Leloir" web:http://www.clarin.com/diario/2006/08/27/sociedad/s-01259864.htm&lt;/ref&gt; Indeed, despite Leloir's frugality and extreme dedication to his research, he was a sociable man, claiming not to like working alone.Ariel Barrios Medina, "Luis Federico Leloir (1906-1987): un esbozo biográfico" web: http://www.houssay.org.ar/hh/bio/leloir.htm&lt;/ref&gt;The Fundación Instituto Campomar has since been renamed Fundación Instituto Leloir, and has grown to become a  building with 20 senior researchers, 42 technicians and administrative personnel, 8 post doctorate fellows, and 20 Ph.D. candidates. The Institute conducts research in a variety of fields, including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and multiple sclerosis.Instituto Leloir, web:http://www.leloir.org.ar/Paginas/Institute.htm&lt;/ref&gt;Awards and distinctionsYearDistinction1943Third National Science Award1958T. Ducett Jones Memorial Award1965Bunge and Born Foundation Award1966Gairdner Foundation Award1967Columbia University's Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize1968Benito Juárez Award1968Honorary Doctorate from Universidad Nacional de Córdoba1968Argentina Chemistry Association's José Jolly Kyle Award1969Honorary member of the English Biochemical Society1970Nobel Prize for Chemistry1971Legion de Honor “Orden de Andrés Bello”1976Bernardo O'Higgins en el Grado de Gran Cruz1982French Legion of HonorPublished works"Suprarrenales y Metabolismo de los hidratos de carbono", (1934)"Farmacología de la hipertensina", (1940)"Hipertensión arterial nefrógena, (1943)"Perspectives in Biology", (1963)"Renal Hipertensión", (1964)"In Vitro Synthesis of Particulate Glycogen", (1965)"Properties of Synthetic and Native liver Glycogen", (1967)"Faraway and Long ago", (1983)"Lipid-bond Saccharides containing glucose and galactose in agrobacterium tumefaciens", (1984)"An Intermediail in Cyclic 1-2 Glucan Biosynthesis", (1985)"Structural correspondence between an oligosaccharide bound to a lipid with the repeating unit of the Rhizobium meliloti" (M. E. Tolmasky, R. J. Staneloni, and L. F. Leloir), Anales de la Asociación Química Argentina (1982) no.70 pg.833-842."N-glycosilation of the proteins" (M. E. Tolmasky, H. K. Takahashi, R. J. Staneloni, and L. F. Leloir), Anales de la Asociación Química Argentina (1982) no.70 pg.405-411."Transfer of oligosaccharide to protein from a lipid intermediate in plants" (R. J. Staneloni, M. E. Tolmasky, C. Petriella, and L. F. Leloir), Plant Physiology (1981) no.68 pg.1175-1179."Presence in a plant of a compund similar to the dolichyl diphosphate oligosaccharide of animal tissue" (R. J. Staneloni, M. E. Tolmasky, C. Petriella, R. A. Ugalde, and L. F. Leloir), Biochemical Journal (1980) no.191 pg.257-260."Lipid bound sugars in Rhizobium meliloti" (M. E. Tolmasky, R. J. Staneloni , R. A. Ugalde, and L. F. Leloir), Archives of Biochemistry and Biophysics (1980) no.203 pg.358-364.BibliographyLorenzano (?), Julio Cesar. Por los caminos de Leloir. Editorial Biblos; 1a edition, July 1994. ISBN 9-5078-6063-0Zuberbuhler de Leloir (?), Amelia. Retrato personal de Leloir. Vol. 8, No. 25, pp. 45-46, 1983.Nachón (?), Carlos Alberto. Luis Federico Leloir: ensayo de una biografía. Bank Foundation of Boston, 1994.See alsoNobel PrizeLouisa Gross Horwitz PrizeUniversity of Buenos AiresBernardo A. HoussayGalactosemiaReferencesExternal linksFundación Instituto LeloirLuis Leloir Biography from Nobelprize.orgThe Official Site of Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Category:1906 births Category:1987 deaths Category:People from Paris Category:Argentine biochemists Category:Argentine scientists Category:Argentine Nobel laureates Category:Nobel laureates in Chemistry Category:Argentines of French descent Category:Washington University in St. Louis facultyar:لويس لولوار ca:Luis Federico Leloir de:Luis Federico Leloir es:Luis Federico Leloir fr:Luis Federico Leloir io:Luis Federico Leloir id:Luis Federico Leloir it:Luis Federico Leloir sw:Luis Leloir lt:Luis Federico Leloir mr:लुइस फेदेरिको लेलवा nl:Luis Federico Leloir ja:ルイ・ルロワール pl:Luis Federico Leloir pt:Luis Federico Leloir ro:Luis Federico Leloir ru:Лелуар, Луис Федерико sk:Luis Federico Leloir fi:Luis Federico Leloir sv:Luis Federico Leloir zh:卢伊斯·弗德里科·莱洛伊尔