Kostis Palamas (;  &mdash; 27 February, 1943Kost&amp;iacute;s Palam&amp;aacute;s -- Britannica Online Encyclopedia&lt;!-- bot-generated title --&gt; at www.britannica.com) was a Greek poet who wrote the words to the Olympic Hymn.BiographyBorn in Patras, he received his primary and secondary education in Missolonghi. In 1880s, he worked as a journalist. He published his first collection of verses, "The Songs of My Fatherland," in 1886. He held a position at the University of Athens between 1897 and 1926. He died during the German occupation of Greece during World War II and his funeral was a major event of the Greek resistance. It ended as a protest of a hundred thousand Greeks against Nazi occupying forces in Athens. Palamas wrote the words to the Olympic Hymn, composed by Spyridon Samaras. It was first performed at the 1896 Summer Olympics, the first modern Olympic Games. The Hymn was then shelved as each host city from then until the 1960 Summer Olympics commissioned an original piece for its edition of the Games, but the version by Samaras and Palamas was declared the official Olympic Anthem in 1958 and has been performed at each edition of the Games since the 1964 Summer Olympics.PoetryHe has been called the "national" poet of Greece and was closely associated with the struggle to rid Modern Greece of the "purist" language and with political liberalism. He dominated literary life for 30 or more years and greatly influenced the entire political-intellectual climate of his time. Romain Rolland considered him the greatest poet of Europe and he was twice nominated for the Nobel prize for poetry but never received it. His most important poem twelve lays (or words) of the gypsyPalamas12.net&lt;!-- bot-generated title --&gt; at www.palamas12.net" (1907) is a poetical-philosophical journey. His "Gypsy" is a free thinking, intellectual rebel. He is a Greek Gypsy, in a post classical, post-Byzantine Greek world. He explores work, love, art, country, history, religion and science, keenly aware of his roots and of the contradictions between his classical and Christian heritage.NotesCategory:1896 Summer Olympics Category:1859 births Category:1943 deaths Category:Modern Greek poets Category:People from West Greece Category:People from Peloponnesede:Kostis Palamas el:Κωστής Παλαμάς es:Kostis Palamas fr:Kostís Palamás nl:Kostís Palamás pl:Kostis Palamas