, St. Petersburg).]]Ilya Yefimovich Repin (, , (, Chuhuiv, Russian Empire (now in Ukraine) &ndash; September 29 1930, Kuokkala, Finland) was a leading RussianIlya Yefimovich Repin - Britannica Online Encyclopedia&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; painter and sculptor of the Peredvizhniki artistic school. An important part of his work is dedicated to his native country, Ukraine.V Marcadé - Art d'Ukraine , edition l'Age de l'Homme, 1990 Lausanne Switzerland , p151 - 163 His realistic works often expressed great psychological depth and exposed the tensions within the existing social order. Beginning in the late 1920s, detailed works on him were published in the USSR, where a Repin cult developed about a decade later, and where he was held up as a model "progressive" and "realist" to be imitated by "Socialist Realist" artists in the Soviet Union.==Life and work==, Belarus.]]Repin was born in the town of Chuguev near Kharkov in the heart of the historical region called Sloboda Ukraine. His parents were Russian military settlers. In 1866, after apprenticeship with a local icon painter named Bunakov and preliminary study of portrait painting, he went to Saint Petersburg and was shortly admitted to the Imperial Academy of Arts as a student. From 1873 to 1876 on the Academy's allowance, Repin sojourned in Italy and lived in Paris, where he was exposed to French Impressionist painting, which had a lasting effect upon his use of light and colour. Nevertheless, his style was to remain closer to that of the old European masters, especially Rembrandt, and he never became an impressionist himself. Throughout his career, he was drawn to the common people from whom he himself traced his origins, and he frequently painted country folk, both Ukrainian and Russian, though in later years he also painted members of the Imperial Russian elite, the intelligentsia, and the aristocracy, including Tsar Nicholas II.The itinerantsIn 1878, Repin joined the free-thinking "Association of Peredvizhniki Artists", generally called "the Wanderers" or "The Itinerants" in English, who, at about the time of Repin's arrival in the capital, rebelled against the academic formalism of the official Academy. His fame was established by his painting of the "Volga Barge Haulers", a work which portrayed the hard lot of these poor folk but which was not without hope for the youth of Russia. From 1882 he lived in Saint Petersburg but did visit his Ukrainian homeland and on occasion made tours abroad., Moscow).]]Historical and contemporary subjectsBeginning shortly before the assassination of Tsar Alexander II in 1881, he painted a series of pictures dealing with the theme of the Russian revolutionary movement: "Refusal to Confess", "Arrest of a Propagandist", "The Meeting", and "They did not Expect Him", the last of which is undoubtedly his masterpiece on the subject, mixing contrasting psychological moods and Russian and Ukrainian national motifs. His large-scale "Religious Procession in the Province of Kursk" is sometimes considered an archetype of the "Russian national style" displaying various social classes and the tensions among them set within the context of a traditional religious practice and united by a slow but relentless forward movement.In 1885, Repin completed one of his most psychologically intense paintings, Ivan the Terrible and his Son. This canvas displayed a horrified Ivan embracing his dying son, whom he had just struck and mortally wounded in an uncontrolled fit of rage. The visage of terrified Ivan is in marked contrast with that of his calm, almost Christlike son. '', 1880-91 (State Russian Museum).]]One of Repin's most complex paintings, Reply of the Zaporozhian Cossacks to Sultan Mehmed IV of the Ottoman Empire occupied many years of his life. He conceived this painting as a study in laughter, but also believed that it involved the ideals of liberty, equality, and fraternity; in short, Cossack republicanism. Begun in the late 1870s, it was only completed in 1891, and, ironically, was immediately purchased by the Tsar. The Tsar paid 35,000 rubles for the painting, an enormous amount for that time.During his maturity, Repin painted many of his most celebrated compatriots, including the novelist Leo Tolstoy, the scientist Dmitri Mendeleev, the imperial official Pobedonostsev, the composer Mussorgsky, the philanthropist Pavel Tretyakov, and the Ukrainian poet and painter, Taras Shevchenko.In 1903, he was commissioned by the Russian government to paint his most grandiose design, a 400x877&nbsp;cm canvas representing a ceremonial session of the State Council of Imperial Russia.Later lifeRepin himself designed his home Penaty (literally, "the Penates") or the Roman "Household Gods", located just to the north of Saint Petersburg in Kuokkala, Grand Duchy of Finland. After the 1917 October Revolution, Finland declared independence. He was invited by various Soviet institutions to come back to his homeland but refused the invitation giving the excuse that he was too old to make the journey. During this period, Repin devoted much time to painting religious subjects, though his treatment of these was usually innovative and not traditional. With the exception of a portrait of Provisional Government head, Alexander Kerensky, he never painted anything substantial on the subject of the 1917 revolutions or the Soviet experiment that followed. His last painting, a joyous and exuberant canvas called "The Hopak", was on a Ukrainian Cossack theme. In 1930, he died in Kuokkala, Finland. After the Continuation War Kuokkala was ceded to the Soviet Union and was renamed Repino (Leningrad Oblast). The Penates are part of the World Heritage Site Saint Petersburg and Related Groups of Monuments.Historic Centre of Saint Petersburg and Related Groups of Monuments - UNESCO World Heritage Centre&lt;!-- bot-generated title --&gt; at whc.unesco.org In 1940, Penaty was opened for the public as a house museum. Alexander Glazunov's Oriental Rhapsody, Op. 29 (1889) is dedicated to Ilya Repin.Gallery Image:REPIN Ivan Terrible&Ivan.jpg|''Ivan the Terrible and his son Ivan on Friday, November 16, 1581'', 1870-1873 (Tretyakov Gallery, Moscow) Image:Ilia Efimovich Repin (1844-1930) - Volga Boatmen (1870-1873).jpg|''Burlaks on Volga'', 1870-73 (State Russian Museum, St. Petersburg) Image:Sadko.jpg|''Sadko in the Underwater Kingdom'', 1876 (State Russian Museum) Image:Ilja Jefimowitsch Repin 002.jpg|''Apples and Leaves'', 1879 (State Russian Museum) Image:Ilja Jefimowitsch Repin 001.jpg|Party 1883 Image:Grand Duke's bride by Repin.jpg|Grand Duke Choosing His Bride 1885 Image:Ilya Efimovich Repin (1844-1930) - Portrait of Leo Tolstoy (1887).jpg|Portrait of Leo Tolstoy 1887 Image:Ilja Jefimowitsch Repin 005.jpg|St Nicholas of Myra in Lycia 1889 Image:Medeleeff by repin.jpg|Portrait of Mendeleev Image:Ilja Jefimowitsch Repin 004.jpg|Portrait of Leo Tolstoy 1893 Image:Zhirkiewicz1894.jpg|Portrait of writer Alexander Zhirkevich 1894 Image:RepinIE VenchNikolayaII GRM.jpg|Wedding of Nicholas II and Alexandra Fyodorovna, 1894 Image:Repin state council2.jpg|Ceremonial session of the State Council 1900 Image:RepinMussorgsky.jpg|Composer Modest Mussorgsky Image:Rubinstein repin.jpg|Anton Rubinstein Image:RepinPaintersDaughter.jpg|Painter's daughter Image:Pobedonostsev by repin.jpg|Konstantin Pobedonostsev (sketch) Image:Sofiarepin.jpg|Sophia Alekseyevna Image:Fet by Repin.jpg|Afanasy Fet Image:Ilja Jefimowitsch Repin 012.jpg|Vladimir Stasov Image:Ilja Jefimowitsch Repin 011.jpg|Pavel Mikhailovich Tretyakov Image:Pisemsky by Repin.jpg|Aleksey Pisemsky Image:Pushkin derzhavin.jpg|Pushkin Reciting His Poem Before Old Derzhavin (1911) Image:Repin 17October.jpg|''17 October 1905'', 1906-1911 Image:Nicolas II of Russia by Iliya Repin.jpg|Emperor Nicholas II (sketch) Image:Archdeacon by Repin.jpg|''Protodeacon'', 1877 (Tretyakov Gallery) Image:Professor Ivanov by Repin.jpg|Portrait of Professor Ivanov 1882 FootnotesReferencesИлья Репин. Картины и биографияРепин Илья ЕфимовичШишанов В.А. К истории коллекции работ Репина в Витебском областном краеведческом музееШишанов В.А.РЕПИН И БЕЛАРУСЬХудожественно-мемориальный музей И.Е. Репина (г.Чугуев)Валерий Шишанов ЗДРАВНЁВО: ПОСЛЕ ОКТЯБРЯ 1917Репин и Здравнёво. Библиографический указательБурлаки на Волге (1870-1873)Bibliography Repeats the standard Soviet interpretation of Repin's life and work. Standard Soviet treatment, but well illustrated. Critical non-Soviet treatment with much fresh information, but geared primarily toward academics.External linksIlya Repin at Olga's GalleryRepin's paintings at The Russian Art GalleryPenaty, currently a museumIlya Yefimovich Repin on postage stamps Category:1844 births Category:1930 deaths Category:Russian-speaking Finns Category:Russian painters Category:Ukrainian painters Category:Realist painters Category:People from Chuhuivbg:Иля Репин cs:Ilja Repin da:Ilya Repine de:Ilja Jefimowitsch Repin et:Ilja Repin es:Iliá Repin eo:Ilja Jefimoviĉ Repin fr:Ilya Repine hr:Ilja Jefimovič Rjepin it:Il'ja Efimovič Repin ka:ილია რეპინი hu:Ilja Jefimovics Repin mk:Илја Репин mr:इल्या रेपिन nl:Ilja Repin ja:イリヤ・レーピン no:Ilja Repin pl:Ilja Riepin pt:Ilya Yefimovich Repin ru:Репин, Илья Ефимович sk:Iľja Jefimovič Repin sl:Ilja Jefimovič Repin sr:Иља Рјепин fi:Ilja Repin sv:Ilja Repin tr:İlya Repin uk:Рєпін Ілля Юхимович zh:伊利亚·列宾