 Action directe (AD) was a French armed group which committed a series of assassinations and violent attacks in France between 1979 and 1987. Members of Action directe considered themselves libertarian communist who had formed an "urban guerrilla organisation". The French government banned the group.FoundingAction directe was set up in 1977 by two other groups, GARI (Groupes d'Action Révolutionnaire Internationalistes, revolutionary internationalist action groups) and NAPAP (Noyaux Armés pour l'Autonomie Populaire, armed core groups for popular autonomy), as the "military-political co-ordination of the autonomous movement". In 1979 it was transformed into an "urban guerrilla organisation" and carried out violent attacks under the banner of "anti-imperialism" and "proletarian defence." The group was banned by the French government in August 1982. In 1984 Action directe allied itself with the German Red Army Faction.AttacksAction directe carried out some fifty attacks, including a machine gun assault on the employers' federation headquarters on May 1 1979 as well as attacks on French government buildings, property management agencies, French army buildings, companies in the military-industrial complex, and the state of Israel. They carried out robberies or "proletarian expropriation" actions, and assassinations, killing Engineer General René Audran, the manager of French arms sales, in 1985. They were also accused of Georges Besse's 1986 murder, an execution allegedly justified because he was the former head of the French automaker Renault. However, they denied it during their trial. Besse was also former president of Eurodif nuclear company, in which Iran had a 10% share.ArrestsOn 21 February 1987, the main Action directe members, Jean-Marc Rouillan, Nathalie Ménigon, Joëlle Aubron, and Georges Cipriani, were arrested. They were later sentenced to life imprisonment. Régis Schleicher had already been arrested in 1984. Joëlle Aubron was released in June 2004 for health reasons and died of lung cancer on March 1, 2006. There is an ongoing campaign by some sections of the French far-left that the Action directe members still imprisoned, who consider themselves political prisoners, should be paroled. In December 2007, Rouillan was allowed a state of "semi-liberty", able to leave prison for extended periods. In September 2008, a Parisian court called for the revoking of this status after he declared in an interview with l’Express that "I remain convinced that armed struggle is recessary at certain moments of the revolutionary process.".Le parquet demande la révocation de la semi-liberté de Rouillan, Liberation, 1 October 2008.The full quote is :«Il faut clarifier les choses: le processus de lutte armée tel qu’il est né dans l’après-68, dans ce formidable élan d’émancipation, n’existe plus (...) Mais, en tant que communiste, je reste convaincu que la lutte armée est nécessaire à un moment du processus révolutionnaire.»See alsoAutonomismRed Army FactionRed BrigadesGroupes d'action révolutionnaire internationalistesReferencesMichael Y. Dartnell: "Action Directe: Ultra Left Terrorism in France 1979-1987", Frank Cass Publishers 1995, ISBN 0-7146-4212-6France: Government must apply international standards to Action Directe four Amnesty International, 31 January 2001External linksSites campaigning for the release of the Action Direct convicts:www.action-directe.net (in French)Campaign for the release of Action Directe prisoners (in French)Category:Communism Category:Far-left politics in France Category:Terrorism in France Category:Guerrilla organizationsaf:Action Directe ar:العمل المباشر br:Action Directe ca:Acció Directa (grup) da:Action Directe de:Action Directe (Untergrundorganisation) es:Acción Directa (grupo) fr:Action directe it:Action directe hu:Action directe nl:Action Directe ja:直接行動 (テロ組織) no:Action Directe pl:Action directe fi:Action directe sv:Action Directe (organisation)