  The National Football Conference (NFC) is one of the two conferences of the National Football League (NFL). The NFC was created after the league merged with the American Football League (AFL) in 1970. The NFC had 13 teams that year, all of which played in the NFL before the merger. Meanwhile, all of the former AFL teams along with the NFL's Cleveland Browns, Pittsburgh Steelers, and Baltimore Colts formed the American Football Conference (AFC).There were five alignment plans for the NFC. The plan that was selected was picked out of a glass bowl. Plan 3 was selected: Plan 1Eastern - New York Giants, Washington, Philadelphia, Atlanta, MinnesotaCentral - Chicago, Green Bay, Detroit, New OrleansWestern - San Francisco, Los Angeles Rams, Dallas, St. Louis CardinalsPlan 2Eastern - New York Giants, Washington, Philadelphia, MinnesotaCentral - Dallas, St. Louis Cardinals, New Orleans , AtlantaWestern - San Francisco, Los Angeles Rams, Chicago, Green Bay, DetroitPlan 3Eastern - Dallas, New York Giants, Philadelphia, St. Louis Cardinals, WashingtonCentral - Chicago, Detroit, Green Bay, MinnesotaWestern - Atlanta, Los Angeles Rams, New Orleans, San FranciscoPlan 4Eastern - New York Giants, Washington, Philadelphia, St. Louis Cardinals, MinnesotaCentral - Chicago, Green Bay, Detroit , AtlantaWestern - San Francisco, Los Angeles Rams, Dallas, New OrleansPlan 5Eastern - New York Giants, Washington, Philadelphia, Detroit, MinnesotaCentral - Chicago, Green Bay, Dallas, St. Louis CardinalsWestern - San Francisco, Los Angeles Rams, Atlanta, New OrleansSince the merger, three expansion teams have joined the NFC, thus making the current total 16. When the Seattle Seahawks and the Tampa Bay Buccaneers joined the league in 1976, they were temporarily placed in the NFC and AFC, respectively, for one season before they switched conferences. The Seahawks returned to the NFC as a result of the 2002 realignment. The Carolina Panthers joined the NFC in 1995.These 16 teams are organized into four divisions (North, South, East, and West) of four teams each. Each team plays the other teams in their division twice (home and away) during the regular season in addition to 10 other games/teams assigned to their schedule by the NFL in the April before. Two of these games are assigned on the basis of the teams' final record in the previous season. The remaining 8 games are split between the roster of two other NFL divisions. This assignment shifts each year. For instance, in the 2007 regular season, each team in the NFC West will play a game apiece against each team in both the AFC North and the NFC South. In this way division competition consists of common opponents, with the exception of the 2 games assigned on the strength of the each team's prior season record.At the end of each season, a series of playoff games are contested among the top six teams in the NFC, consisting of the four division champions (by place standing) and the two other teams ("wild cards") with the best win-loss records. The NFC playoffs culminate in the NFC Championship Game for the George Halas Trophy. The NFC Champion plays the AFC Champion in the Super Bowl.Category:National Football League Category:1970 establishmentsbs:National Football Conference da:National Football Conference de:National Football Conference es:Conferencia Nacional (NFL) eo:National Football Conference fr:National Football Conference ko:내셔널 풋볼 콘퍼런스 hr:National Football Conference is:Þjóðardeildin (NFL) it:National Football Conference hu:National Football Conference nl:National Football Conference ja:ナショナル・フットボール・カンファレンス pl:National Football Conference pt:National Football Conference ru:Национальная футбольная конференция sh:National Football Conference fi:National Football Conference zh:國家美式足球聯會