 | familia = Hippopotamidae | familia_authority = Gray, 1821 | subdivision_ranks = Subtaxa | subdivision = †''Trilobophorous afarensis'' Geze, 1985Hippopotaminae Gray, 1821HippopotamusChoeropsis†''Hexaprotodon''†''Archaeopotamus''†''Saotherium''†Kenyapotaminae Pickford, 1983†''Kenyapotamus''†''PalaeopotamusHippopotamuses (colloquially also "Hippopotami") are the members of the family Hippopotamidae. They are the only extant artiodactyls which walk on four toes on each foot.CharacteristicsHippopotamids are large mammals, with short, stumpy legs, and barrel-shaped bodies. They have large heads, with broad mouths, and nostrils placed at the top of the snout. Like pigs, they have four toes, but unlike pigs, all of the toes are used in walking. Hippopotamids are unguligrade, although, unlike most other such animals, they have no hooves, instead using a pad of tough connective tissue. Their stomach has three chambers, but they are not true ruminants.The living species are both smooth-skinned, and lack both sebaceous glands and sweat glands. The outer epidermis is relatively thin, so that hippos dehydrate rapidly in dry environments.Both the incisors and canines are large and tusk-like, although the canine tusks are by far the largest. The tusks grow throughout life. The postcanine teeth are large and complex, suited for chewing the plant matter that composes their diet. The number of incisors varies even within the same species, but the general dental formula is:EvolutionThe hippopotamids are descended from the anthracotheres, a family of semi-aquatic artiodactyls that appeared sometime during the late Eocene, and are popularly thought to have resembled small- or narrow-headed hippos. More specifically, the hippos split off from the anthracotheres some time during the Miocene. After the appearance of the true hippopotamids, the anthracotheres went into a decline brought about by a combination of climatic change and competition with their descendants, until the last genus, Merycopotamus, died out in the early Pliocene of Africa.There were once many species of hippopotamid, but only two survive today: Hippopotamus amphibius, and Choeropsis liberiensis. They are the last survivors of two major evolutionary lineages, the hippos proper and the pygmy hippos, respectively; these lineages could arguably be considered subfamilies but their relationships to each other - apart from being fairly distant relatives - are not well resolved.The enigmatic Miocene Kenyapotamus is insufficiently known to be assigned a place in the hippo phylogeny with any degree of certainty. In addition, the genus Hexaprotodon, in a sense now restricted to an extinct group of animals once living around the northern and northeastern Indian Ocean, which formerly included most ancient hippos, turned out to be paraphyletic.SpeciesThe systematics and taxonomy used here mostly follows the review of Boisserie (2005)Boisserie identifies the species Hippopotamus minor as Phanourios minutus, but this genus is not widely recognized..Genus ''Hippopotamus'' - true hippopotamiHippopotamus amphibius - HippopotamusHippopotamus antiquus - European Hippopotamus (prehistoric)Hippopotamus creutzburgi - Cretan Dwarf Hippopotamus (prehistoric)Hippopotamus minor - Cyprus Dwarf Hippopotamus (prehistoric)Hippopotamus melitensis - Maltese Hippopotamus (prehistoric)Hippopotamus pentlandi - Sicilian Hippopotamus (prehistoric)Hippopotamus lemerlei - Lemerle's Hippopotamus or Madagascan Dwarf Hippopotamus (prehistoric)Hippopotamus laloumena - Lesser Madagascar Hippopotamus (prehistoric)Hippopotamus gorgops - Gorgon-eyed Hippopotamus (fossil)Tentatively placed into Hippopotamus:Hippopotamus karumensis (fossil)Hippopotamus aethiopicus (fossil)Hippopotamus protamphibius (fossil)Hippopotamus coryndoni (fossil)Hippopotamus afarensis (fossil) - formerly genus TrilobophorusGenus ''Hexaprotodon'' - hexaprotodons or Asian hippopotamiHexaprotodon palaeindicus - Indian Hippopotamus (fossil)Hexaprotodon namadicus - Lesser Indian Hippopotamus (fossil) - possibly same as H. palaeindicusHexaprotodon bruneti - Afar Hexaprotodon (fossil)Hexaprotodon sivalensis - Sivalik Hippopotamus (fossil)Hexaprotodon sp. - Myanmar Hippopotamus (fossil)and some Indonesian species from the PleistoceneGenus ''Archaeopotamus'' - formerly included in HexaprotodonArchaeopotamus harvardi (fossil)Archaeopotamus lothagamensis (fossil)and 1-2 undescribed speciesGenus ''Choeropsis'' - pygmy hippopotamiChoeropsis liberiensis - Pygmy HippopotamusChoeropsis madagascariensis - Madagascan Pygmy Hippopotamus (prehistoric)Genus ''Saotherium'' - formerly included in HexaprotodonSaotherium mingoz (fossil)References and NotesBoisserie, Jean-Renaud (2005): The phylogeny and taxonomy of Hippopotamidae (Mammalia: Artiodactyla): a review based on morphology and cladistic analysis. Zool. J. Linn. Soc. 143(1): 1-26.  (HTML abstract)Petronio, C. (1995): Note on the taxonomy of Pleistocene hippopotamuses. Ibex 3: 53-55. PDF fulltext Category:Hippopotamuses Category:Even-toed ungulateszh-min-nan:Hô-bé-kho bg:Хипопотамови ca:Hipopotàmid cs:Hrochovití da:Flodheste de:Flusspferde es:Hippopotamidae eu:Hipopotamido fr:Hippopotamidae ko:하마과 hr:Vodenkonji it:Hippopotamidae he:היפופוטמיים ka:ბეჰემოთისებრნი lt:Hipopotaminiai hu:Vízilófélék nl:Nijlpaarden ja:カバ科 no:Flodhester oc:Hippopotamidae pl:Hipopotamowate pt:Hippopotamidae ru:Бегемотовые simple:Hippopotamidae fi:Virtahevot sv:Flodhästar tr:Su aygırıgiller zh:河马科