 | location = Southampton, England | deathdate =  | deathplace =Kensington, London, England | nationality = | field = Painting, Drawing, Printmaking | training = Royal Academy of Art | movement = Pre-Raphaelite | works = Ophelia; Christ In The House Of His Parents; A Huguenot. | patrons = | awards = Sir John Everett Millais, 1st Baronet, PRA (June 8, 1829 &ndash; August 13, 1896) was an English painter and illustrator and one of the founders of the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood.Early lifeMillais (pronounced Mih-lay) was born in Southampton, England in 1829, of a prominent Jersey-based family. His prodigious artistic talent won him a place at the Royal Academy schools at the unprecedented age of eleven. While there, he met William Holman Hunt and Dante Gabriel Rossetti with whom he formed the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood (known as the "PRB") in September 1848 in his family home on Gower Street, off Bedford Square.Pre-Raphaelite worksMillais' Christ In The House Of His Parents (1850) was highly controversial because of its realistic portrayal of a working class Holy Family labouring in a messy carpentry workshop. Later works were also controversial, though less so. Millais achieved popular success with A Huguenot (1852), which depicts a young couple about to be separated because of religious conflicts. He repeated this theme in many later works.All these early works were painted with great attention to detail, often concentrating on the beauty and complexity of the natural world. In paintings such as Ophelia (1852) Millais created dense and elaborate pictorial surfaces based on the integration of naturalistic elements. This approach has been described as a kind of "pictorial eco-system".This style was promoted by the critic John Ruskin, who had defended the Pre-Raphaelites against their critics. Millais' friendship with Ruskin introduced him to Ruskin's wife Effie. Soon after they met she modelled for his painting The Order of Release. As Millais painted Effie they fell in love. Despite having been married to Ruskin for several years, Effie was still a virgin. Her parents realized something was wrong and she filed for an annulment. In 1856, after her marriage to Ruskin was annulled, Effie and John Millais married. He and Effie eventually had eight children including John Guille Millais, a notable naturalist and wildlife artist.Later worksAfter his marriage, Millais began to paint in a broader style, which was condemned by Ruskin as "a catastrophe". It has been argued that this change of style resulted from Millais' need to increase his output to support his growing family. Unsympathetic critics such as William Morris accused him of "selling out" to achieve popularity and wealth. His admirers, in contrast, pointed to the artist's connections with Whistler and Albert Moore, and influence on John Singer Sargent. Millais himself argued that as he grew more confident as an artist, he could paint with greater boldness. In his article "Thoughts on our art of Today" (1888) he recommended Velázquez and Rembrandt as models for artists to follow.(1878)]]  Paintings such as The Eve of St. Agnes and The Somnambulist clearly show an ongoing dialogue between the artist and Whistler, whose work Millais strongly supported. Other paintings of the late 1850s and 1860s can be interpreted as anticipating aspects of the Aesthetic Movement. Many deploy broad blocks of harmoniously arranged colour and are symbolic rather than narratival.Later works, from the 1870s onwards demonstrate Millais' reverence for old masters such as Joshua Reynolds and Velázquez. Many of these paintings were of an historical theme and were further examples of Millais' talent. Notable among these are The Two Princes Edward and Richard in the Tower (1878) depicting the Princes in the Tower, The Northwest Passage (1874) and the Boyhood of Raleigh (1871). Such paintings indicate Millais' interest in subjects connected to Britain's history and expanding empire.His last project was to be a painting depicting a white hunter lying dead in the African veldt, his body contemplated by two indifferent Africans. This fascination with wild and bleak locations is also evident in his many landscape paintings of this period, which usually depict difficult or dangerous terrain. The first of these, Chill October (1870) was painted in Perth, near his wife's family home. Many others were painted elsewhere in Perthshire, near Dunkeld and Birnam, where Millais rented grand houses each autumn in order to hunt and fish. Millais also achieved great popularity with his paintings of children, notably Bubbles (1886) &ndash; famous, or perhaps notorious, for being used in the advertising of Pears soap &ndash; and Cherry Ripe.IllustrationsMillais was also very successful as a book illustrator, notably for the works of Anthony Trollope and the poems of Tennyson. His complex illustrations of the parables of Jesus were published in 1864. His father-in-law commissioned stained-glass windows based on them for Kinnoull parish church, Perth. He also provided illustrations for magazines such as Good Words. In 1869 he was recruited as an artist for the newly founded weekly newspaper The Graphic.Academic careerMillias was elected as an associate member of the Royal Academy of Arts in 1853, and was soon elected as a full member of the Academy, in which he was a prominent and active participant. He was granted a baronetcy in 1885, the first artist to be honoured with a hereditary title. After the death of Frederic Leighton in 1896, Millais was elected President of the Royal Academy, but he died later in the same year from throat cancer. He was buried in St Paul's Cathedral.Memorial statueat Tate Britain]] When Millais died in 1896, the Prince of Wales (later to become King Edward VII) chaired a memorial committee, which commissioned a statue of the artist.Birchall, Heather. &quot;Sir Thomas Brock 1847-1922&quot;, Tate online, February 2002. Retrieved 5 April 2008. This was installed at the front of the National Gallery of British Art (now Tate Britain) in the garden on the east side in 1905. On 23 November that year, the Pall Mall Gazette called it "a breezy statue, representing the man in the characteristic attitude in which we all knew him".In 1953, Tate Director, Sir Norman Reid, attempted to have it replaced by Auguste Rodin's John the Baptist, and in 1962 again proposed its removal, calling its presence "positively harmful". His efforts were frustrated by the statue's owner, the Ministry of Works. Ownership was transferred from the Ministry to English Heritage in 1996, and by them in turn to the Tate.  In 2000, under Sir Nicholas Serota's directorship, the statue was removed to the rear of the building. Selected works in museumsThe Blind Girl: Birmingham Museum &amp; Art GalleryPizarro Seizing the Inca of Peru: Victoria &amp; Albert MuseumThe Two Princes Edward and Richard in the Tower: Picture Gallery of Royal Holloway CollegeGallery Image:Isabellamillais.jpg|1) - Isabella (1849) Image:Huguenot.jpg|2) - A Huguenot on St Bartholomew's Day (1852) Image:Millais-christ-in-the-house-of-his-parents.jpg|3) - Christ In The House Of His Parents (1850) Image:Millais ferdy.jpg|4) - Ferdinand Lured by Ariel (1852) Image:Millais order.jpg|5) - The Order of Release (1853) Image:Royalist.jpg|6) - The Proscribed Royalist, 1651 (1853) Image:Rescue-Millais-L.jpg|7) - The Rescue (1855) Image:Peace concluded.jpg|8) - Peace Concluded, 1856 (1856) Image:Millais leaves.jpg|9) - Autumn Leaves (1856) Image:Blind Girl.jpg|10) - The Blind Girl (1856) Image:ISUMBRAS.jpg|11) - Sir Isumbras at the Ford (1857) Image:Eve of St Agnes.jpg|12) - The Eve of Saint Agnes (1863) image:esthermillais.jpg|13) - Esther (1865) Image:Jephtha.jpg|14) - Jephthah (1867) Image:Vanessa.jpg|15) - Vanessa (1868) Image:Lorne.jpg|16)- Portrait of the Marquess of Lorne. Image:VictoryOLord.JPG|17) - Victory O Lord! (1871) Image:EFFIE.jpg|18) - Portrait of Effie Millais (1873) Image:Millais - Überfahrt nach Nordwest.jpg|19) - The Northwest Passage (1878) Image:CherryRipe1879 by John Everett Millais.jpg|20) - Cherry Ripe (1879) Image:Bubblesmillais.jpg|21) - Bubbles (1886) Image:RoseberyMillais.gif|22)- Portrait of Archibald Primrose, 5th Earl of Rosebery Image:Lillie Langtry by Millais.jpg|23) - A Jersey Lily: Portrait of Lillie Langtry Image:Grey lady.JPG|24) - The Grey Lady (1888) Image:Pearl of great price.jpg|25) - The Pearl of Great Price, illustration from The Parables of Our Lord Image:Effie Deans.jpg|26) - Effie Deans See alsoList of Pre-Raphaelite paintings - including John Everett MillaisEnglish school of paintingBritish artList of British paintersNotes and referencesSourcesFurther readingExternal linksClassic Reproductions Oil-on-canvas reproductionsArtRenewal.org galleryNational Museums Liverpool important Millais collectionEdward Platt on MillaisKathleen Jamie on MillaisMillais's Ophelia in focus on Tate OnlineJohn Everett Millais in the &quot;History of Art&quot;[http://smarthistory.org/blog/89/two-paintings-by-the-pre-raphaelite-john-everett-millais smARThistory: Christ in the House of His Parents and Ophelia] &ndash; Short video podcasts about the paintings     Category:Baronets in the Baronetage of the United Kingdom Category:English painters Category:English illustrators Category:People from Southampton Category:British people of Huguenot descent Category:Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood Category:Royal Academicians Category:Burials at St Paul's Cathedral Category:Deaths from throat cancer Category:Member of Artists Rifles Category:Cancer deaths in Englandbg:Джон Миле da:John Everett Millais de:John Everett Millais es:John Everett Millais fr:John Everett Millais it:John Everett Millais he:ג'ון אוורט מיליי nl:John Everett Millais ja:ジョン・エヴァレット・ミレー no:John Everett Millais nrm:John Everett Millais pl:John Everett Millais pt:John Everett Millais ru:Милле, Джон Эверетт sr:Џон Еверет Миле fi:John Everett Millais sv:John Everett Millais tr:John Everett Millais zh:約翰·艾佛雷特·米萊