and Ajax play a board game with knucklebones on this late 6th-century lekythos, a type of oil-storing vessel associated with funeral rites]]"Aias" redirects here. For other uses of this name, see AIAS and Ajax.Ajax or Aias (Greek: ) was a mythological Greek hero, the son of Telamon and Periboea and king of Salamis&quot;Salamis The Island&quot; Salamis The Island -- Salamina Municipality - Greek Island. He plays an important role in Homer's Iliad and in the Epic Cycle, a series of epic poems about the Trojan War. To distinguish him from Ajax, son of Oileus, he is called "Telamonian Ajax," "Greater Ajax," or "Ajax the Great". In Etruscan mythology, he is known as Aivas Tlamunus.Ajax the GreatIn Homer's Iliad he is described as of great stature and colossal frame, the tallest and strongest of all the Achaeans, second only to his cousin Achilles in skill-at-arms, and Diomedes to whom he lost a sparring competition as well as the 'bulwark of the Achaeans'. He was trained by the centaur Chiron (who had also trained his father, Telamon, and Achilles' father Peleus), at the same time as Achilles. Aside from Achilles, Ajax is the most valuable warrior in Agamemnon's army (along with Diomedes), though he is not as cunning as Nestor, Diomedes, Idomeneus, or Odysseus. He commands his army wielding a huge shield made of seven ox-hides with a layer of bronze. He is not wounded in any of the battles described in the Iliad.Trojan WarIn the Iliad, Ajax is notable for his abundant strength and courage, seen particularly in two fights with Hector. In Book 7, Ajax is chosen by lot to meet Hector in a duel which lasts most of a whole day. Ajax at first gets the better of the encounter, wounding Hector with his spear and knocking him down with a large stone, but Hector fights on until the heralds, acting at the direction of Zeus, call a draw: the action ends without a winner and with the two combatants exchanging gifts.The second fight between Ajax and Hector occurs when the latter breaks into the Achaean camp, and fights with the Greeks among the ships. In Book 14, Ajax throws a giant rock at Hector which almost kills him. In Book 15, Hector is restored to his strength by Apollo and returns to attack the ships. Ajax, wielding an enormous spear as a weapon and leaping from ship to ship, holds off the Trojan armies virtually single-handedly. In Book 16, Hector is able to disarm Ajax (although Ajax is not hurt) and Ajax is forced to retreat, seeing that Zeus is clearly favoring Hector. Hector and the Trojans succeed in burning one Greek ship, the culmination of an assault that almost finishes the war. Ajax manages to kill many of the other Trojan lords, including Phorkys.Achilles was absent during these encounters because of his feud with Agamemnon. In Book 9, Agamemnon and the other Greek chiefs send Ajax, Odysseus and Phoenix to the tent of Achilles in an attempt to reconcile with the great warrior and induce him to return to the fight. Although Ajax speaks earnestly and is well received, he does not succeed in convincing Achilles.When Patroclus is killed, Hector tries to steal his body. Ajax is the man who fights to protect the body, and he takes it back safely to Achilles at the camp. Ajax, assisted by Menelaus, succeeds in fighting off the Trojans and taking the body back with his chariot; of course, the Trojans had already stolen the armor and left the body naked. Ajax's prayer to Zeus to remove the fog that has descended on the battle to allow them to fight or die in the light of day has become proverbial.Like most of the other Greek leaders, Ajax is alive and well as the Iliad comes to a close. Later, when Achilles dies, killed by Paris (with help from Apollo), Ajax and Odysseus are the heroes that fight against the Trojans to get the body and bury it next to his dear friend, Patroclus. Ajax, with his great hammer of war, manages to drive off the Trojans, while Odysseus pulls the body to his chariot, and rides away with it to safety. After the burial, both claim the armor for themselves, as recognition for their efforts. After several days of competition, Odysseus and Ajax are tied for the ownership of the magical armour which was forged in Mount Olympus by the god Hephaestus himself. It is then that a competition is derived to see who is a more elegant speaker. Odysseus proves the better, and is given the armor. Ajax is furious about it, and falls to the ground, exhausted. When he wakes up, he is under the influence of a spell from Athena. He goes to a flock of sheep and slaughters them, imagining they are the Achaean leaders, including Odysseus and Agamemnon. When he comes to his senses, covered in blood, and realizes what he did, with diminished honor he decides that he prefers to kill himself rather than to live in shame. He did it with the same sword Hector had given him when they exchanged presents. (Iliad, 7.303). From his blood sprang a red flower, as at the death of Hyacinthus, which bore on its leaves the initial letters of his name Ai, also expressive of lament (Pausanias 1.35.4). His ashes were deposited in a golden urn on the Rhoetean promontory at the entrance of the Hellespont. This account of his death is from the play, Ajax (Sophocles); in Pindar's Nemean, 7; and in Ovid's Metamorphoses, 13.1. Homer is somewhat vague about the precise manner of Ajax's death but does ascribe it to his loss in the dispute over Achilles's shield: when Odysseus visits Hades, he begs the soul of Ajax to speak to him, but Ajax, still resentful over the old quarrel, refuses and descends silently back into Erebus.Like Achilles, he is represented (although not by Homer) as living after his death in the island of Leuke at the mouth of the Danube (Pausanias 3.19.11). Ajax, who in the post-Homeric legend is described as the grandson of Aeacus and the great-grandson of Zeus, was the tutelary hero of the island of Salamis, where he had a temple and an image, and where a festival called Aianteia was celebrated in his honour (Pausanias 1.35). At this festival a couch was set up, on which the panoply of the hero was placed, a practice which recalls the Roman Lectisternium. The identification of Ajax with the family of Aeacus was chiefly a matter which concerned the Athenians, after Salamis had come into their possession, on which occasion Solon is said to have inserted a line in the Iliad (2.557-558), for the purpose of supporting the Athenian claim to the island. Ajax then became an Attic hero; he was worshipped at Athens, where he had a statue in the market-place, and the tribe Aiantis was named after him. Pausanias also relates that a gigantic skeleton, its kneecap  in diameter, appeared on the beach near Sigeum, on the Trojan coast; these bones were identified as those of Ajax.FamilyAjax is the son of Telamon, who was the son of Aeacus and grandson of Zeus, and his first wife Periboea. He is the cousin of Achilles, the most remembered Greek warrior, and elder half-brother of Teucer. Many illustrious Athenians, including Cimon, Miltiades, Alcibiades and the historian Thucydides, traced their descent from Ajax.PalaceIn 2001, Yannos Lolos began excavating a Mycenaean palace on the island of Salamis which he supposed to be the home of the mythological Aiacid dynasty. The ruins have been excavated at a site near the village of Kanakia of Salamis, a few miles off the coast of Athens. The multi-story structure covers 750 m² (8,000 sq ft) and had perhaps 30 rooms. The Trojan War (if indeed a real event) is widely supposed to have occurred at the height of the Mycenaean civilization, roughly the point at which this palace appears to have been abandoned.John Carr - &quot;Palace of Homer's hero rises out of the myths&quot; Times Online (28 March 2006)The Philoctetes Project The Philoctetes Project dramatizes the interaction of the suffering soldier and the conflicted caregiver with readings from adaptations of Sophocles' plays about Ajax and Philoctetes.Popular referencesFootball (soccer) clubs, AFC Ajax, Ajax Cape Town and Ajax America, are named after Ajax.The laundry detergent brand Ajax's slogan is "Stronger than dirt", presumably in the mythological reference.Several ships of the Royal Navy were called HMS Ajax after him, but none are currently operational.The town of Ajax, Ontario (pop. 90,000), was named after one of the above-mentioned ships, and thereby indirectly after the hero.Several United States Navy ships called USS Ajax were named for his valor.Ajax is the name given to one of the most ferocious Titans in Brian Herbert and Kevin J. Anderson's prequel book trilogy, Dune: The Butlerian Jihad, to Frank Herbert's classic sci-fi epic Dune, as well as to a spice harvester in Dune itself.In the first Baldur's Gate I game there is one NPC, called Ajantis Ilvastarr - a Paladin, worshiper of Helm. He features in the second game too, as he is disciple of Keldorn Firecam - a joinable NPC from the second game Baldur's Gate II: Shadows of Amn. The player kills him due to an unavoidable accident in which Ajantis, along with a group of other paladins, has an illusion cast over him, making them look like monsters. The same goes for the player's party as well, as Ajantis' group attacks the players on sight. He can be recognized only by Keldorn, if he is in the party. This is a reference to Ajax's own death, also brought about by an illusion spell.Ajax appears as one of the main characters in the computer game Age of Mythology and is a good friend to the main character Arkantos and Odysseus.In the 2004 film Troy, Ajax was played by wrestler Tyler Mane and in great contrast to the story, was killed in battle by Hector. He also introduces himself to Achilles as a stranger even though the two are cousins.Ajax is a character in the 1979 film The Warriors; played by James Remar, the character exhibits similar traits to the mythological Ajax.Ajax appears in Dan Simmons' sci-fi novels Ilium and its sequel Olympos as himself in a massive recreation of Homer's Iliad on an alternate Earth.Ajax the Greater and the Lesser both appear in the novel Celestial Matters in a vision to the main character Aias. In the vision, they ponder what gift to give their namesake, and decide that rather than giving him the glory of a hero's death, they shall give him the pain of a hero's life.In the 1970 film Patton screenwriter Francis Ford Coppola has General Patton praying for good weather in battle, borrowed from Ajax's prayer to Zeus.ReferencesSourcesHomer. Iliad, 7.181-312.Homer. Odyssey 11.543-67.Apollodorus. Epitome III, 11-V, 7.Ovid. Metamorphoses 12.620-13.398.Friedrich Schiller, Das Siegerfest.External linksAjax Projects   Category:Characters in the Iliad Category:Characters in the Odyssey Category:Mythological kings Category:People of the Trojan War Category:Tutelary Category:Greek mythologyar:أجاكس (ميثولوجيا) br:Aias Telamonios bg:Аякс Теламонид ca:Àiax el Gran cs:Aiás da:Ajax de:Ajax der Große es:Áyax el Grande fa:آیاس fr:Ajax fils de Télamon gl:Áiax o Grande is:Ajas Telamonsson it:Aiace Telamonio he:איאס lt:Ajaksas hu:Aiasz (Telamón fia) nl:Ajax (mythologie) ja:大アイアース no:Ajax (mytologi) pl:Ajaks Wielki pt:Ájax ro:Aiax din Salamina ru:Аякс Великий simple:Ajax the Great sh:Ajant fi:Aias sv:Ajax (mytologi) th:อาแจ็กซ์ tr:Aias uk:Аякс Теламонід zh:大埃阿斯