) | company_slogan = "...and you're done" | foundation = 1994 | founder = Jeffrey P. Bezos | location_city = Seattle, Washington | location_country = USA | area_served = Worldwide | key_people = Jeffrey P. Bezos(Chairman), (CEO) & (President) | num_employees = 17,000 (2008) | industry = Retail | market cap = US$ 32.94 Billion (2008) | revenue =  US$ 14.8350 Billion (2007) | operating_income =  US$ 655 Million (2007) | net_income =  US$ 476 Million (2007) | assets =  US$ 6.485 Billion (2007) | equity =  US$ 1.197 Billion (2007) | products = Amazon.comA9.comAlexa InternetIMDb | url = Amazon.com | website_type = e-commerce | language = English, Chinese, French, German & Japanese | alexa =   While company lore says Bezos wrote the business plan while he and his wife drove from New York to Seattle, WashingtonTop Executive Profiles - Jeffrey P. Bezos - Portfolio.com&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;, that account appears to be apocryphal.NYTimes, [[July 10], 2005: "A Retail Revolution Turns 10"]The company began as an online bookstore named "Cadabra.com", a name quickly abandoned for sounding like "cadaver"; while the largest brick-and-mortar bookstores and mail-order catalogs for books might offer 200,000 titles, an on-line bookstore could offer more. Bezos renamed the company "Amazon" after the world's biggest river. Since 2000, Amazon's logotype is an arrow leading from A to Z, representing the desire to sell many products.Amazon.com Introduces New Logo; New Design Communicates Customer Satisfaction and A-to-Z SelectionIn 1994, the company incorporated in the state of Washington, beginning service in July 1995, and was reincorporated in 1996 in Delaware. The first book Amazon.com sold was Douglas Hofstadter's Fluid Concepts and Creative Analogies: Computer Models of the Fundamental Mechanisms of Thought.Amazon.com's company timeline Amazon.com issued its initial public offering of stock on May 15, 1997, trading under the NASDAQ stock exchange symbol AMZN, at an IPO price of US$18.00 per share (U.S. $1.50 after three stock splits in the late 1990s).Amazon's initial business plan was unusual: the company did not expect a profit for four to five years; the strategy was effective. Amazon grew steadily in the late 1990s while other Internet companies grew blindingly fast. Amazon's "slow" growth provoked stockholder complaints: that the company was not reaching profitability fast enough. When the dot-com bubble burst, and many e-companies went out of business, Amazon persevered, and, finally, turned its first profit in the fourth quarter of 2001: U.S. $5 million, just 1¢ per share, on revenues of more than U.S. $1 billion, but the profit was symbolically important.The company remains profitable: 2003 net income was U.S.$35.3 million, U.S.$588.50 million in 2004, U.S.$359 million in 2005, and U.S.$190 million in 2006 (including a U.S.$662 million charge for R&amp;D in 2006), nevertheless, the firm's cumulative profits remain negative. As of September 2007, the accumulated deficit stood at U.S.$1.58 billion. Revenues increased thanks to product diversification and an international presence: US$3.9 billion in 2002, U.S.$5.3 billion in 2003, U.S.$6.9 billion in 2004, U.S.$8.5 billion in 2005, and U.S.$10.7 billion in 2006. On November 21, 2005, Amazon entered the S&amp;P 500 index, replacing AT&amp;T after it merged with SBC Communications.In 1999, Time Magazine named Bezos Person of the Year, recognizing the company's success in popularizing on-line shopping.Merchant partnershipsThe Web site CDNOW (cdnow.com) is powered and hosted by Amazon. Until June 30, 2006, typing ToysRUs.com into a browser would similarly bring up Amazon.com's Toys & Games tab; however, this relationship was terminated as the result of a lawsuit.E-Commerce Times: Toys 'R' Us wins right to end amazon partnership., March 3, 2006Amazon.com powers and operates retail web sites for Target, Sears Canada, Benefit Cosmetics, Bebe Stores, Timex Corporation, Marks &amp; Spencer, Mothercare and Lacoste. For a growing number of enterprise clients, currently including the UK merchants Marks & Spencer, Benefit Cosmetics' UK entity and Mothercare, Amazon provides a unified multichannel platform from whence a customer can interchangeably interact with the retail website, standalone in-store terminals, and phone-based customer service agents. Amazon Web Services also powers AOL's Shop@AOL.LocationsHeadquartersThe company's global headquarters is located on Seattle, Washington's Beacon Hill. It has offices throughout other parts of greater Seattle including Union Station and The Columbia Center.Amazon has announced plans to move its headquarters to the South Lake Union neighborhood of Seattle beginning in mid-2010, with full occupancy by 2011. This move will consolidate all Seattle employees onto the new 11-building campus.&quot;Amazon to set up shop in South Lake Union&quot;. Accessed online 15 July 2008.Software development centersThe company employs software developers in medium- to large-sized centers across the globe. International locations include:Slough (England)Edinburgh (Scotland)Dublin(Ireland)Bangalore, Chennai, and Hyderabad (India)Cape Town (South Africa)Iaşi (Romania)Shibuya (Tokyo, Japan) (closed in 2005)Beijing (China)Fulfillment and warehousingFulfillment centers are located in the following cities, often near airports:North America:Arizona, USA: PhoenixDelaware, USA: New CastleIndiana, USA: Whitestown, MunsterKansas, USA: CoffeyvilleKentucky, USA: Campbellsville, Hebron (near CVG), Lexington, and LouisvilleNevada, USA: Fernley and Red Rock (near 4SD)Pennsylvania, USA: Carlisle, Chambersburg, Hazleton, and LewisberryTexas, USA: Dallas/Fort WorthOntario, Canada: Mississauga (a Canada Post facility)Europe:Munster, Ireland: CorkBedfordshire, England, UK: Marston GateInverclyde, Scotland, UK: GourockFife, Scotland, UK: GlenrothesNeath Port Talbot, Wales, UK: Crymlyn BurrowsBBC NEWS | Wales | Jobs boost as web warehouse opens&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Loiret, France: Orléans-Boigny (2000),Loiret, France: Orléans-Saran (2007),Hesse, Germany: Bad HersfeldSaxony, Germany: LeipzigAsia:Chiba, JapanGuangzhou, ChinaShanghai, ChinaBeijing, ChinaProduct linesAmazon has steadily branched into retail sales of music CDs, videotapes and DVDs, software, consumer electronics, kitchen items, tools, lawn and garden items, toys & games, baby products, apparel, sporting goods, gourmet food, jewelry, watches, health and personal-care items, beauty products, musical instruments, clothing, industrial & scientific supplies, groceries, and more.The company launched Amazon.com Auctions, its own Web auctions service, in March 1999. However it failed to chip away at industry pioneer eBay's juggernaut growth. Amazon Auctions was followed by the launch of a fixed-price marketplace business called zShops in September 1999, and a failed Sotheby's/Amazon partnership called sothebys.amazon.com in November.Amazon no longer mentions either Auctions or zShops on its main pages and the help page for sellers now only mentions the Marketplace.amazon.com money-home-page Old links to zShop (http://zshops.amazon.com) now simply redirect to the Amazon home page, while old links to Auctions (http://auctions.amazon.com) take users to a transactions history page. New product listings are no longer possible for either service.Although zShops failed to live up to its expectations, it laid the groundwork for the hugely successful Amazon Marketplace service launched in 2001 that let customers sell used books, CDs, DVDs, and other products alongside new items. Today, Amazon Marketplace's main rival is eBay's Half.com service.Beginning August 2005,U.S. Trademark registrations numbered 3216667 and 3266840/3266847, issued March 6, 2007 and July 17, 2007 Amazon began selling products under its own private label, "Pinzon"; the initial trademark applications suggested the company intended to focus on textiles, kitchen utensils, and other household goods. In March 2007, the company applied to expand the trademark to cover a larger and more diverse list of goods, and to register a new design consisting of the "word PINZON in stylized letters with a notched letter O whose space appears at the "one o'clock" position.".Trademark Electronic Search System from the USPTO, supplying "PINZON" as the search term The list of products registered for coverage by the trademark grew to include items such as paints, carpets, wallpaper, hair accessories, clothing, footwear, headgear, cleaning products, and jewelry.On May 16, 2007 Amazon announced its intention to launch its own online music store. The store launched in the US in public beta September 25, 2007, selling downloads exclusively in MP3 format without digital rights management.Amazon.com-News Release&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;.In August 2007, Amazon announced AmazonFresh, a grocery service offering perishable and nonperishable foods. Customers can have orders delivered to their homes at dawn or during a specified daytime window. Delivery was initially restricted to residents of Mercer Island, Washington, and was later expanded to several ZIP codes in Seattle proper.Remember Webvan? So Does Amazon&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; AmazonFresh also operated pick-up locations in the suburbs of Bellevue and Kirkland from summer 2007 through early 2008.In 2008 Amazon expanded into film production and is currently funding the film The Stolen Child with 20th Century Fox. Amazon, Fox nursing 'Stolen Child'Review and recommendation featureAmazon.com is known for its candid reviews and its capabilities for recommending products to its customers. The customer reviews are monitored for all negative or indecent comments that are directed at anything, or anyone, but the product itself. In regards to the reviews lacking relative restrictions, Robert Spector who is the author of the book Amazon.com, describes how “when publishers and authors asked Bezos why Amazon.com would publish negative reviews, he defended the practice by claiming that Amazon.com was ‘taking a different approach...we want to make every book available – the good, the bad, and the ugly...to let truth loose’” (Spector 132).WebsiteThe domain amazon.com attracted at least 615 million visitors annually by 2008 according to a Compete.com survey. This was twice the numbers of walmart.com.Compete.com: SnapShot of amazon.com, walmart.com. Retrieved April 12, 2008.A popular feature of Amazon is the ability for users to submit reviews to the web page of each product. As part of their review, users must rate the product on a rating scale from one to five stars. Such rating scales provide a basic idea of the popularity and dependability of a product.The review feature is an important and highly influential function for customers and one of the main reasons for amazon.com’s success at selling books. As with book reviews anywhere, the buyer must beware that all reviewers have bias. Under normal circumstances, reviews give the reader at least a modest basis for evaluating a given book.Because it is an open forum, the reader can benefit from a variety of perspectives. However, the anonymity of web reviewers increases the chances of abuse in the form of self-praise, praise from friends, or malicious criticism. This situation was confirmed in 2004 when the origin of reviews was accidentally made public on an amazon site, and some authors openly confirmed their glowing reviews of their own books.Additionally, Amazon created a feature in recent years that allowed users to comment on reviews. This has been met with a mixed reaction, since a few of the high-profile sellers have been getting "spammed" in these forums, regardless of the quality of the reviews. Amazon has done little to enforce the rules of these forums, but did recently add an "ignore" button feature to help counteract the spamming. Nonetheless, at least one critic in the top 50 quit writing for Amazon and began contributing to another site due to the spam issues and Amazon's inability to enforce the rules.amazon.com: Amazon.com: Profile for Taylor X. Retrieved April 25, 2008.Amazon provides an optional badging option for reviewers, e.g., to indicate the “real name” of the reviewer (based on a credit card) or to indicate that the reviewer is one of the “top” (most popular) reviewers. Some books have well over one thousand reviews (e.g. Ayn Rand’s Atlas Shrugged), but many books, especially new ones, have none.The U.S. site generally has the most reviews, but other country sites offer the perspectives of other reviewers. A review posted on one site is not necessarily visible on another site.Search Inside the Book is a feature which allows customers to search for keywords in the full text of many books in the catalog.[http://www.amazon.com/gp/reader/1427600708 Amazon.com's online reader Search Inside reference][http://www.amazon.com/gp/reader/0385720327?v=search-inside&amp;keywords=boinus&amp;go=Go%21# Amazon.com Search Inside reference] The feature started with 120,000 titles (or 33 million pages of text) on October 23, 2003. There are currently about 250,000 books in the program. Amazon has cooperated with around 130 publishers to allow users to perform these searches.To avoid copyright violations, Amazon.com does not return the computer-readable text of the book but rather a picture of the matching page, disables printing, and puts limits on the number of pages in a book a single user can access. One author observed that his entire book could be read online by searching a few wordsThe Tiltboys: How to Read a Book for Free on Amazon&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;. Amazon is planning to launch Search Inside the Book internationally. Additionally, customers can purchase access to the entire book online via the Amazon Upgrade program, although the selection of books eligible for this service is currently limited.According to information in Amazon.com discussion forums, Amazon derives about 40% of its sales from affiliates whom they call "Associates", and third party sellers who list and sell products on the Amazon website(s).An Associate is an independent seller or business that receives a commission for referring customers to the Amazon.com site. Associates do this by placing links on their websites to the Amazon homepage or to specific products. If a referral results in a sale, the Associate receives a commission from Amazon. Worldwide, Amazon has "over 900,000 members" in its affiliate programs.Amazon.co.uk Associates: The web's most popular and successful Affiliate Program&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; Associates can access the Amazon catalog directly on their websites by using the Amazon Web Services (AWS) XML service.Amazon was one of the first online businesses to set up an affiliate marketing program.History of Affiliate Marketing - ClickZ&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; AStore is a new affiliate product that allows Associates to embed a subset of Amazon products within, or linked to from, another website.Amazon reported over 1.3 million sellers sold products through Amazon's worldwide web sites in 2007. Selling on Amazon has become more popular as Amazon expanded into a variety of categories beyond media, and built a variety of features to support volume selling. Unlike eBay/Paypal, Amazon sellers do not have to maintain separate payment accounts - all payments and payment security are handled by Amazon itself.According to the Internet audience measurement website Compete.com, Amazon attracts approximately 50 million U.S. consumers to its website on a monthly basis.SnapShot of amazon.com (rank #11) - Compete&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Acquisitions and spinoffsIn April 1998, Amazon bought the Internet Movie Database (IMDb).In August 1998, Amazon bought Cambridge, Massachusetts-based PlanetAll for 800,000 shares of Amazon stock. PlanetAll operated a web-based address book, calendar, and reminder service. In the same deal, Amazon acquired Sunnyvale-based Junglee, an XML-based data mining startup for 1.6 million shares of Amazon stock. The two deals together were valued at about US$280 million at the time.In June 1999, Amazon bought Alexa Internet, Accept.com and Exchange.com in a set of stock deals worth approximately US$645 million.In 2004, Amazon purchased Joyo.com, a Chinese e-commerce website. It also debuted A9.com, a company focused on researching and building innovative technology.In March 2005, Amazon acquired BookSurge, a print on demand company, and Mobipocket.com, an eBook software company.In July 2005, Amazon purchased CreateSpace (formerly CustomFlix), a Scotts Valley, CA-based distributor of on-demand DVDs. Since the acquisition, CreateSpace has expanded its on-line services to include on-demand books and CDs, as well as video downloads. On July 30, 2007, the National Archives announced that it would make thousands of historic films available for purchase through CreateSpace.&lt;/ref&gt;In February 2006, Amazon acquired Shopbop, a Madison, Wisconsin-based retailer of designer clothing and accessories for women.Wisconsin Technology Network: &quot;Amazon acquires Madison-based Shopbop&quot;In May 2007, Amazon acquired dpreview.com, a London-based digital photography review website created by Phil Askey as his personal hobby website and Brilliance Audio, the largest independent publisher of audiobooks in the United States.In January 2008, Amazon announced that it would acquire audiobook provider Audible.com for $300 million in cash.In August 2008, Amazon announced it had an agreement to purchase Victoria, B.C. based Abebooks, seller of new, used, out of print and rare books.Amazon looks to fill niche with AbeBooks purchaseIn late August 2008, Amazon announced that it would acquire Seattle-based Shelfari, a book-based social network site, for an undisclosed sum. http://www.informationweek.com/news/internet/retail/showArticle.jhtml?articleID=210200911&lt;/ref&gt; The move comes less than a month after Amazon’s acquisition of AbeBooks, As part of that acquisition Amazon also got a stake in Shelfari’s competitor LibraryThing, which AbeBooks had previously purchased a 40% stake in.Noteworthy eventsIn 2002, Amazon became the exclusive retailer for the much-hyped Segway Human Transporter. Bezos was an early supporter of the Segway before its details were made public.In 2003, Amazon purchased the rival online music retalier CD Now, which was founded in 1994.On June 21, 2003, Amazon coordinated what was at the time one of the largest sales and distribution events in e-commerce history with the sale of over 1.3 million copies of Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, since beaten by Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows with a sale of over 2 million copies preordered in 2007.On July 16, 2005, Amazon celebrated its 10th anniversary by telecasting a worldwide live concert hosted by Bill Maher and artists such as Bob Dylan and Norah Jones.On December 13, 2007, Amazon paid £1,950,000 for a hand written copy of The Tales of Beedle the Bard by J. K. Rowling.In December 2007, Amazon was fined €100,000 by The Tribunal de Grande Instance in France for offering free shipping. The 1981 Lang Law prohibits companies from discounting books by more than 5%.France Fines Amazon for Free ShippingProducts and servicesAmazon.com has incorporated a number of products and services into its shopping model, either through development or acquisition.2001Honor System and donations: The Honor System was originally launched in 2001 to allow customers to make donations or buy digital content, with Amazon collecting 2.9 percent of the payment plus a flat fee of $0.30 USD.2002Web Services:Amazon launched Amazon Web Services (AWS) in 2002. The service provides programmatic access to many features leveraged behind the scenes on its website.2004Amazon also created "channels" to benefit certain causes. In 2004, Amazon's "Presidential Candidates" allowed customers to donate US$5-200 to the campaigns of 2004 U.S. presidential hopefuls. Amazon has periodically reactivated a Red Cross donation channel after such tragedies as 9/11 and Hurricane Katrina. After the 2004 earthquake and tsunami in the Indian Ocean, Amazon set up an online donation channel to the American Red Cross, waiving its processing fee. As of January 2005, over 162,000 individuals had donated over US$13.1 million. Similar channels were set up for the British, Canadian, French, German and Japanese Red Cross organizations. Over 7,000 Britons donated more than US$350,000; 900 Canadians over US$56,000; 660 French over US$23,000; 2,900 Germans over US$145,000; and 1,900 Japanese over US$66,000.2005Prime:Amazon Prime offers customers unlimited expedited shipping with no minimum purchase amount for a flat annual fee. The service also offers discounted priority shipping rates. Amazon launched the program in the continental United States in 2005, in Japan in June 2007, in the United Kingdom and Germany in November 2007, and in France (as "Amazon Premium") in October 2008.Shorts:Launched in 2005, Amazon Shorts offers exclusive short form content, including short stories and non-fiction pieces from best-selling authors, all available for immediate download at US$.49. As of June 2007, the program has over 1,700 pieces and is adding about 50 new pieces per week.Mechanical Turk: In November 2005, Amazon.com began testing Amazon Mechanical Turk, an application programming interface (API) allowing programs to dispatch tasks to human processors.2006S3:In March 2006, Amazon launched an online storage service called Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3). An unlimited number of data objects, from 1&nbsp;byte to 5&nbsp;gigabytes in size, can be stored in S3 and distributed via HTTP or BitTorrent. The service charges monthly fees for data stored and for data transferred.Discussion boards: In August 2006, Amazon launched product wikis (later folded into Amapedia) and discussion forums for certain products using guidelines that follow standard message board conventions.EC2:In August 2006, Amazon introduced Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2), a virtual site farm, allowing users to use the Amazon infrastructure with its high reliability to run diverse applications ranging from running simulations to web hosting.2007Amapedia:In January 2007 Amazon launched Amapedia, a collaborative wiki for user-generated content to replace ProductWiki.Unbox:In March 2007, Amazon launched an online video on demand service, which has been criticized for its use of digital rights management (DRM).MP3 downloads: In September 2007, Amazon launched a new music store (currently in beta) called Amazon MP3, which sells downloadable tracks, all in the MP3 format and most recorded at 256 kilobits per second variable bitrate (VBR).  Amazon's terms of use agreements legally restrict use of the music, but Amazon does not use DRM to enforce those terms.Amazon MP3 Frequently Asked QuestionsAmazon MP3 is selling music from the Big 4 record labels, EMI, Universal, Warner Bros. Records, and Sony BMG, as well as many independents; as of January 2008 they are the only store to sell DRM-free music from all Big 4 labels.Amazon.com Launches Public Beta of Amazon MP3 Previous to the launch of this service, Amazon made an investment in Amie Street, a similar music store with a variable pricing model based on demand.Vine:In August 2007 Amazon launched Amazon Vine, which allows top product reviewers free access to pre-release products from vendors participating in the program. Reviewers may either return the used product to Amazon, or post a review and keep the product, within a few months of receipt.FPS:In August 2007 Amazon launched a payment service specifically targeted at developers. Amazon FPS has facilities for developing many different charging models including micro-payments. The service also gives developers easy access to Amazon customers.Kindle:In November 2007, Amazon launched Amazon Kindle, an e-book reader which downloads content over "Whispernet," a free EV-DO wireless service on the Sprint Nextel network. Initial offerings included approximately 115,000 books, newspapers, magazines and blogs. The screen uses E Ink technology to reduce battery consumption. In 2008 Amazon claimed its library had grown to 170,000 titles.SimpleDB:In December 2007, Amazon introduced SimpleDB, a database system, allowing users of its other infrastructure to utilize a high reliability high performance database system.2008Amazon MP3: In January 2008 Amazon announced they would be rolling out their Amazon MP3 service to their subsidiary websites worldwide throughout the year. UndatedConnect:Amazon Connect enables authors to post remarks on their book pages and to customers who have bought their books.WebStore:WebStore by Amazon allows businesses to create e-commerce websites using Amazon technology. Merchants can customize their sites using their own photos and branding. Sellers pay a commission of 7 percent, which includes credit-card processing fees and fraud protection, and a subscription fee of $59.95/month for an unlimited number of webstores and listings.ControversiesTrademark infringementIn 1999 the Amazon Bookstore Cooperative of Minneapolis, Minnesota sued Amazon.com for trademark infringement. The cooperative had been using the name "Amazon" since 1970, but reached an out-of-court agreement to share the name with the on-line retailer.Patent useThe company has been controversial for its alleged use of patents as a competitive hindrance. The "1-click patent" is perhaps the best-known example of this. Amazon's use of the one-click patent against competitor Barnes and Noble's website led the Free Software Foundation to announce a boycott on Amazon in December 1999. The boycott was discontinued in September 2002.From the FSF site: amazon philosophy.On February 22, 2000, the company was granted a patent covering an internet-based customer referral system, or what is commonly called an "affiliate program". Reaction was swift and negative. Industry leaders Tim O'Reilly and Charlie Jackson spoke out against the patent,Linux Journal Talking Patents and O'Reilly published an open letterhttp://oreilly.com/amazon_patent/amazon_patent.comments.htm&lt;/ref&gt; to Bezos protesting the 1-click patent and the affiliate program patent, and petitioning him to "avoid any attempts to limit the further development of internet commerce".O'Reilly collected 10,000 signatureshttp://oreilly.com/amazon_patent/amazon_patent.comments.html 10,000 signatures with this petition. Bezos responded with his own open letter.An Open Letter to Jeff Bezos&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; The protest ended with O'Reilly and Bezos visiting Washington D.C. to lobby for patent reform.On February 25, 2003, the company was granted a patent titled "Method and system for conducting a discussion relating to an item on Internet discussion boards".On May 12, 2006, the USPTO ordered a reexaminationsmh.com.au Kiwi actor v Amazon.com of the "One-Click" patent, based on a request filed by Peter Calveley, who cited as prior art an earlier e-commerce patent and the Digicash electronic cash system.igdmlgd blogspot&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Canadian operationsAmazon has a Canadian site in both English and French, but is prevented from operating any headquarters, servers, fulfillment centers or call centers in Canada due to that country's legal restrictions on foreign-owned booksellers. Instead, Amazon's Canadian site originates in the United States, and Amazon has an agreement with Canada Post to handle distribution within Canada and for the use of the Crown corporation's Mississauga, Ontario shipping facility. The launch of Amazon.ca generated controversy in Canada. In 2002, the Canadian Booksellers Association and Indigo Books and Music sought a court ruling that Amazon's partnership with Canada Post represented an attempt to circumvent Canadian law, but the litigation was dropped in 2004.Customer serviceAmazon.com previously did not publish its toll-free customer service number on its own web site. However, customers can now submit written customer service requests (which are answered by e-mail), call a toll-free number, or use a click-to-call service to be connected by phone to an available service representative.Amazon.com Click-to-Call feature: https://www.amazon.com/gp/help/contact-us/call-me.html/?skip=true&lt;/ref&gt;Before Amazon published its phone number, numerous web pages existed solely to publish the Amazon.com customer service phone numbers. One such page received in excess of 23,000 visits in December 2004 alone.&quot;The Amazon.com Customer Service Phone Number&quot; Despite the perceived difficulty in reaching customer service by phone, Amazon.com "remains the leader among e-tailers" in customer satisfaction according to the American Customer Satisfaction Index's fourth-quarter 2007 survey.ACSI Quarterly Commentaries Q4 2007Labor relationsAmazon has opposed efforts by trades unions to organize in both the United States and the United Kingdom.In 2001, 850 employees in Seattle were laid off by Amazon.com after an unionisation drive. The Washington Alliance of Technological Workers (WashTech) accused the company of violating union laws, and claimed Amazon managers subjected them to intimidation and heavy propaganda. Amazon denies any link between the unionisation effort and the lay-offs.Short shrift for unions in Amazon's silicon jungleAlso in 2001, Amazon.co.uk hired a US union-busting organization, The Burke Group, to assist in defeating a union recognition campaign by the Graphical, Paper and Media Union (GPMU, now part of Amicus) to achieve recognition in the Milton Keynes distribution depot. It was alleged that the company victimised or sacked four union members during the 2001 recognition drive and held a series of captive meetings with employees.Divide and rule Union Busting at Amazon.com in Britain by Dr Gregor GallSome employees of Amazon in the United Kingdom are required to submit to drug tests and can have their employment terminated on a positive test. However, the reliability of the tests has been called into question, as in the case of an Amazon worker who won a tribunal case against the company.The Humane Society of the United States v. Amazon.com, Inc., et al.Amazon at one time carried two cockfighting magazines and two dog fighting videos although the Humane Society of the United States (HSUS) contends that the sale of these materials is a violation of U.S. Federal law. The Humane Society of the United States has filed a lawsuit against Amazon.The HSUS v. Amazon.com, Inc., et al. (Animal fighting materials) | The Humane Society of the United States&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; A campaign to boycott Amazon purchases gained momentum in August 2007 after the much publicized dog fighting case involving NFL quarterback Michael Vick.On May 21, 2008, Marburger Publishing agreed to settle with the Humane Society by requesting that Amazon stop offering their magazine The Gamecock for subscription. The second magazine named in the Humane Society lawsuit, The Feathered Warrior, remains available.Reader reviews credibilityA 2004 glitch in Amazon.ca's review system revealed that many well-established authors were anonymously giving themselves glowing reviews, with some revealed to be anonymously giving "rival" authors terrible reviews. The glitch in the system was fixed and those reviews have since been removed or made non anonymous.CNN.com - Report: Glitch IDs anonymous Amazon reviewers - [[February 14], 2004]Amazon Glitch Unmasks War Of ReviewersBookSurgeIn March 2008, sales representatives of Amazon's BookSurge division started contacting publishers of print on demand titles to inform them that for Amazon to continue selling their POD-produced books, they would need to sign agreements with Amazon's own BookSurge POD company. Publishers were told that eventually, the only POD titles that Amazon would be selling would be those printed by their own company, BookSurge. Some publishers felt that this ultimatum amounted to monopoly abuse, and questioned the ethics of the move and its legality under anti-trust law.Interfering with publishers' direct salesIn 2008, Amazon UK came under criticism for attempting to prevent publishers from direct selling at discount from their own websites. Amazon's argument was that they should be able to pay the publishers based on the lower prices offered on their websites, rather than on the full RRP.Dispute with Hachette Livre UKIn June 2008 Amazon UK drew criticism in the British publishing community following their withdrawal from sale of key titles published by Hachette Livre UK. The withdrawal is apparently intended to put pressure on the publisher to provide levels of discount described by the trade as unreasonable. Curtis Brown's managing director Jonathan Lloyd was quoted in The Bookseller magazine as saying: “I think the entire industry of publishers, authors and agents are 100% behind Hachette. Someone has to draw a line in the sand. Publishers have given 1% a year away to retailers, so where does it stop? Using authors as a financial football is disgraceful.”Easter eggsTwo easter eggs exist on Amazon.com's website. They are reached by invisible links at the center of the page below the last line of text.An invisible link at the very bottom of the "Directory of All Stores" page leads to a February 2002 tribute to retiring Amazon.com Senior Vice President David Risher, "Amazon.com's favorite site surfer".At the very bottom of Amazon.com's Sports &amp; Outdoors store, an invisible link leads to a November 2007 tribute to retiring Chief Information Officer Rick Dalzell, "Amazon.com's favorite fisherman."Additionally, at the bottom of the source code for the main page the word 'MEOW' is written in a comment.See alsoAmazon Standard Identification Number (ASIN)Statistically Improbable Phrases: Amazon.com's phrase extraction technique for indexing books.Amazon Breakthrough Novel AwardAmazon MP3Amazon Web ServicesOnline shoppingReferencesFurther readingJakob Nielsen, &quot;Amazon: No longer the role model for e-commerce design&quot;, Useit.com, July 25, 2005.&quot;A conversation with Werner Vogels&quot;, ACM Queue, May 2006.External linksAmazon.com.Amazon.co.ukWebStore by AmazonList of International WebsitesAmazon.com Organizational Chart    Category:Amazon.com Category:Book websites Category:American websites Category:Bookstores of the United States Category:Commerce websites Category:Companies based in Seattle, Washington Category:Companies listed on NASDAQ Category:Online music stores Category:Online retail companies of the United States Category:Review websites Category:Companies established in 1994 Category:Publicly traded companies Category:Cloud computing providersar:أمازون.كوم be-x-old:Amazon.com bs:Amazon.com ca:Amazon.com cs:Amazon da:Amazon.com de:Amazon.com es:Amazon.com fa:آمازون (وب‌گاه) fr:Amazon.com gl:Amazon.com ko:아마존 닷컴 id:Amazon.com is:Amazon.com it:Amazon.com he:אמזון hu:Amazon.com ml:ആമസോണ്‍.കോം nl:Amazon.com ja:Amazon.com no:Amazon.com nn:Amazon.com pl:Amazon.com pt:Amazon ro:Amazon.com ru:Amazon.com simple:Amazon.com fi:Amazon.com sv:Amazon.com ta:அமேசான்.வணி tr:Amazon.com zh:Amazon.com