IG Farben (short for Interessen-Gemeinschaft Farbenindustrie AG, "syndicate of dyestuff corporations", and also called I.G. Farbenfabriken) was a German conglomerate of chemical companies. It was founded in 1925, though the major companies that formed it had been working together closely since World War I.The company was founded by Carl Duisberg and Hermann HummelBayer Company History. Initially many of these companies produced dyes, but they soon began research into other areas of chemistry. IG Farben held a near monopoly on chemical production. During the Nazi era, they began manufacturing Zyklon B, which was a poison commonly used at the time for delousing. During the Holocaust, it was used as the lethal agent in the gas chambers of the death camps of Auschwitz and Majdanek. The company was a major user of slave labour.The IG Farben Building, headquarters for the conglomerate in Frankfurt am Main, Germany, was completed in 1931.ConglomerationIG Farben consisted of the following major companies and several smaller ones.AGFA (Aktien-Gesellschaft für Anilin-Fabrikation), BerlinCassella, FrankfurtBASF (Badische Anilin und Soda Fabrik), Ludwigshafen (nominal survivor)Bayer, LeverkusenFarbwerke Hoechst (now Sanofi-Aventis), HöchstChemische Werke Hüls, Marl (founded in 1938)Chemische Fabrik Kalle, BiebrichWorld War II]]During the planning of the invasion of Czechoslovakia and Poland, IG Farben cooperated closely with Nazi officials and directed which chemical plants should be secured and delivered to IG Farben.Profit Over Life | The Nuremberg Pharma Tribunal | www.pharma-over-life.org&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;In 1941, an investigation exposed a "marriage" cartel between United States-based Standard Oil Co. and I.G. Farben.Trading With the Enemy (1983), Charles Higham: Delacorte Press, New York NY; Pp. 32 - 62 ISBN 0-440-09064-4[http://reformed-theology.org/html/books/wall_street/ Wall Street and the Rise of Hitler] (2000) By Antony C. Sutton] (seeFacts and Fascism (1943) by George Seldes andThe Senate Military Affairs Subcommittee on War Mobilization (Kilgore Committee), headed by Senator Harley M. Kilgore, held several hearings throughout the second half of 1945 that focused on German economic penetration of neutral countries, elimination of German resources for war, German's resources for a third world war, etc. Archives are at NARA's Center for Legislative Archives in the Archives I building. See the National Archives finding aid for Holocaust research.) It also brought new evidence concerning complex price and marketing agreements between DuPont, a major investor in and producer of leaded gasoline, U.S. Industrial Alcohol Co. and their subsidiary, Cuba Distilling Co. The investigation was eventually dropped, like dozens of others in many different kinds of industries, due to the need to enlist industry support in the war effort. However, the top directors of many oil companies agreed to resign and oil industry stocks in molasses companies were sold off as part of a compromise worked out. (seeWorld Without Cancer: The Story of Vitamin B17 (Laetrile) (1974-1975) by G. Edward GriffenI.G. Farben (1947) by Richard Sasuly but see[http://reformed-theology.org/html/books/wall_street/ Wall Street and the Rise of Hitler (2000) By Antony C. Sutton], a book that describes in detail the money trail from its roots to the bank accounts of the Nazi SS.)IG Farben built a factory (named Buna Chemical Plant) for producing synthetic oil and rubber (from coal) in Auschwitz, which was the beginning of SS activity and camps in this location during the Holocaust. At its peak in 1944, this factory made use of 83,000 slave laborers.http://www.profit-over-life.org/rolls.php?roll=97&amp;pageID=760&amp;expand=no IG Farben Trial Documents The pesticide Zyklon B, for which IG Farben held the patent, was manufactured by Degesch (Deutsche Gesellschaft für Schädlingsbekämpfung), which IG Farben owned 42.2 percent of (in shares) and which had IG Farben managers in its Managing Committee.Of the 24 directors of IG Farben indicted in the so-called IG Farben Trial (1947-1948) before a U.S. military tribunal at the subsequent Nuremberg Trials, 13 were sentenced to prison terms between one and eight years. Some of those indicted in the trial were subsequently made leaders of the post-war companies that split off from IG Farben, including those who were sentenced at Nuremberg.Break-up and liquidationDue to the severity of the war crimes committed by IG Farben during World War II, the company was considered to be too corrupt to be allowed to continue to exist. The Soviet Union seized most of IG Farben's assets located in the Soviet occupation zone (see Morgenthau Plan), as part of their reparation payments. The Western Allies however, in 1951, split the company up into its original constituent companies. The four largest quickly bought the smaller ones, and today only Agfa, BASF, and Bayer remain, while Hoechst merged with the French Rhône-Poulenc Rorer to form Aventis, now based in Strasbourg, France.Even though the company was officially liquidated in 1952, it continued to be traded on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange as a trust, holding a few real estate assets until it was finally wound up on November 10, 2003 by its liquidators. It had contributed 500,000 DM (£160,000 or €255,646) towards a foundation for former captive laborers under the Nazi regime. The remaining property, worth DM 21 million (£6.7 million or €10.7 million), went to a buyer. During this lengthy period, the holding company had been continually criticized for failing to pay any compensation to the former laborers, which was the stated reason for its continued existence after 1952. The company, in turn, blamed the ongoing legal disputes with the former captive laborers as being the reason it could not be legally dissolved and the remaining assets distributed as reparations. Nevertheless, it refused to join a national compensation fund that was set up in 2001 to pay people who had suffered.Former Zyklon-B maker goes bust BBC News Online November 10, 2003. Accessed March 27, 2008. Each year, the company's annual meeting in Frankfurt was the site of demonstrations by hundreds of protesters.IG Farben to be dissolved BBC News Online September 17, 2001. Accessed March 27, 2008.Holocaust Memorial controversyIn 2003 Degussa (now known as Evonik), a company closely associated with IG Farben during the Nazi period, was involved in a major controversy surrounding its involvement in the construction of the Memorial to the Murdered Jews of Europe ("Holocaust Memorial") in Berlin. Degussa produced the anti-graffiti substance Protectosil used to cover the stelae which are the major element in the memorial. The dispute arose mainly because Degussa had also owned 42.2 percent of the shares in Degesch (a subsidiary), at the time when that company was producing Zyklon B. The board of trustees of the memorial ultimately decided that, given the cost of eliminating Degussa's role in the project at that relatively late stage, the use of Protectosil ought to continue, despite protests from many Jewish groups.IG Farben in fictionDer Rat der Götter "The Council of the Gods" (DEFA 1951, director Kurt Maetzig) is an East German film about IG Farben's role in World War II and the subsequent trial. See: I.G. Farben plays a major part in Thomas Pynchon's novel Gravity's Rainbow.I.G. Farben plays a part in Alfred Hitchcock's ''Notorious.I.G. Farben is a character played by Dennis Hopper in the film Straight to Hell (1987).I.G. Farben is the name on the business card that Bud (played by Harry Dean Stanton) gives out to Mr. Pakman in the 1984 film Repo Man.I.G. Farben is one of Germany's most skilled research teams in the computer strategy game Hearts of Iron II.In William Styron's novel Sophie's Choice, the protagonist meets a fictionalized I.G. Farben executive in pre-war Poland and during her internment at Auschwitz.I.G. Farben of Germany was mentioned to have taken over Du Pont in Kurt Vonnegut's Hocus Pocus.Correspondence from I.G. Farben to the Commandant of Auschwitz requesting female prisoners to test a drug on is included in David Markson's novel Vanishing Point.The I.G. Farben trial is mentioned at the end of Judgment at Nuremberg (1961) as having lenient judgments for the German defendents.See alsoIG Farben BuildingNerve agentMemorial to the Murdered Jews of EuropeWiedergutmachungReferencesNotesFurther readingCategory:Companies established in 1925 Category:IG Farben Category:Chemical companies of Germany Category:Defunct companies of Germany Category:Frankfurt Category:Nazi war crimes Category:The Holocaustcs:IG Farben da:I.G. Farben de:I.G. Farben el:IG Farben es:IG Farben fr:Interessengemeinschaft Farbenindustrie it:IG Farben he:אי גה פארבן nl:IG Farben ja:イーゲー・ファルベン社 no:IG Farben pl:IG Farben pt:IG Farben ru:IG Farben simple:IG Farben sv:IG Farben zh:法本公司