 Oryx is one of three or four large antelope species of the genus Oryx, typically having long straight almost upright or swept back horns. Two or three of the species are native to Africa, with a fourth native to the Arabian Peninsula. Small populations of several oryx species, such as the "Scimitar Oryx", exist in Texas and New Mexico, USA as captive populations on wild game ranches.SpeciesThe Arabian Oryx (Oryx leucoryx), the smallest species, became extinct in the wild in 1972 from the Arabian Peninsula. It was reintroduced in 1982 in Oman but poaching has had negative effects. Further populations have been reintroduced in Qatar, Bahrain, Israel and Saudi Arabia, with a total population in the wild of about 886 in 2003http://www.animalinfo.org/species/artiperi/oryxleuc.htm. About 600 more are in captivity.The Scimitar Oryx, also called Scimitar-horned Oryx (Oryx dammah) of North Africa is now possibly extinct in the wild. However, there are unconfirmed reports of surviving populations in central Niger and Chad, and a population currently inhabiting a fenced nature reserve in Tunisia is being expanded for reintroduction to the wild in that countryhttp://www.iht.com/articles/ap/2007/01/02/america/NA_GEN_US_Reviving_a_Breed.php.The East African Oryx inhabits eastern Africa, and the closely-related Gemsbok inhabits all of eastern and southern Africa. Both are considered threatened species. Between 1969 and 1977, the New Mexico Department of Game and Fish released 93 Gemsbok into the White Sands Missile Range in New Mexico and that population is now estimated at about 1,700 animalshttp://www.wsmr.army.mil/pao/whatsUp/wu32.htm. The classification of these two animals varies between experts. One system has the Gemsbok as one species (Oryx gazella), and the East African Oryx as another (Oryx beisa) with two subspecies of its own, the East African Oryx "proper" (Oryx beisa beisa) and the Fringe-eared oryx (Oryx beisa calliotis). The other system has one Oryx gazella species, with three subspecies: Oryx gazella gazella, Oryx gazella beisa, and Oryx gazella calliotis.EcologyAll oryx species prefer near-desert conditions and can survive without water for long periods. They live in herds of up to 600 animals. Newborn calves are able to run with the herd immediately after birth. Both males and females possess permanent horns. The horns are narrow, and straight except in the scimitar oryx, where they curve backwards like a scimitar. The horns are lethal—the oryx has been known to kill lions with them—and oryxes are thus sometimes called the sabre antelope. The horns also make the animals a prized game trophy, which has led to the near-extinction of the two northern species.In cultureThe profile of an oryx with perfectly symmetrical horns, especially viewed in silhouette, appears to have only a single horn, which has led to speculation that it may be the source of Unicorn myths.An Arabian Oryx named 'Orry' served as an unofficial mascot of the 2006 Asian Games held at Doha.Oryx eyes are considered beautiful by Arabs of Arabia and are usually used to describe the beauty of women's eyes.In popular culture, a skit on Sesame Street shows six oryx walking by while a group of kids apparently count them.In an episode of Planet Earth, oryxes are trying to chase lions away.In Margaret Atwood's dystopian novel "Oryx and Crake," one of the primary characters names herself after the animal.Oryx, along with Lions, Zebras, Leopards, Ostriches, Capuchin Monkeys and an Elephant, can be seen in Shawn Levy's children's movie Night at the Museum, wherein taxidermic models of them at the Museum of Natural History are brought to life each night by an ancient Egyptian curse.ClassificationFAMILY BOVIDAESubfamily HippotraginaeGenus ''Hippotragus''Genus ''Oryx''Scimitar Oryx, Oryx dammahGemsbok, Oryx gazellaEast African Oryx, Oryx beisa (or subspecies of O. gazella)Fringe-eared Oryx, Oryx callotisArabian Oryx, Oryx leucoryxGenus ''Addax''Addax, Addax nasomaculatusExternal linksOryx:Wildlife summary from the African Wildlife Foundationhttp://www.iucnredlist.com/search/details.php/15570/allCategory:Grazing antelopes Category:Mammals of Africaar:مها de:Oryxantilopen es:Oryx fr:Oryx it:Oryx he:ראם ms:Oryx nl:Oryxen ja:オリックス属 pl:Oryks pt:Órix ru:Сернобыки sv:Oryx tr:Oriks