 "Els Segadors" (The Reapers) is the national anthem of Catalonia, an autonomous community within Spain. It has been an unofficial anthem of the Catalan people since the late 19th century, and the official one since 1993.The song is based on the events of 1639 and 1640 when Catalans fought against The Count-Duke of Olivares, the chief minister of King Philip IV of Spain: the Guerra dels Segadors or Reapers' War.HistoryThe modern lyrics are by Emili Guanyavents and were written in 1899; the music was by Francesc Alió and was written in 1892, based on an old popular song.The Catalan government made "Els Segadors" its national anthem in 1993.Lyrics   Catalunya triomfant, tornarà a ser rica i plena. Endarrera aquesta gent tan ufana i tan superba. Catalonia triumphant Shall once again be rich and bountiful, Drive them back, those people So conceited and so arrogant. Bon cop de falç, Bon cop de falç, Defensors de la terra! Bon cop de falç!  A good blow with the sickle, A good blow with the sickle, Defenders of the land! A good blow with the sickle! Ara és hora, segadors. Ara és hora d'estar alerta. Per quan vingui un altre juny esmolem ben bé les eines. Now is the time, reapers, Now is the time to be alert. For when another June comes, Let us sharpen our tools well. Bon cop de falç, Bon cop de falç, Defensors de la terra! Bon cop de falç!  A good blow with the sickle, A good blow with the sickle, Defenders of the land! A good blow with the sickle! Que tremoli l'enemic en veient la nostra ensenya. Com fem caure espigues d'or, quan convé seguem cadenes. Let the enemy tremble On seeing our banner. Just as we cut down golden stalks of wheat, When the time is right, we shall reap chains.The verb in the Catalan original—''seguem''—is from the same root as segadors; that is, they will cut the chains as they cut the crops. Bon cop de falç, Bon cop de falç, Defensors de la terra! Bon cop de falç!  A good blow with the sickle, A good blow with the sickle, Defenders of the land! A good blow with the sickle! See alsoCataloniaReapers' WarNotesExternal links and referencesGeneralitat de Catalunya: The National Anthem (official page in English, with lyrics translation, music sheet and official version recordings in mp3 and oog formats)History of the anthemLink to the mp3 recording of Els SegadorsLink to the midi version of the songEls Segadors Category:Catalonia Category:Catalan folklore Category:Catalan music Category:Catalan-language songsca:Els Segadors de:Els Segadors es:Els Segadors eo:Els Segadors eu:Els Segadors fr:Els Segadors gl:Els Segadors jv:Els Segadors nl:Els Segadors no:Els Segadors oc:Els Segadors pl:Hymn Katalonii pt:Hino da Catalunha ro:Els Segadors tr:Katalonya Ulusal Marşı uk:Гімн Каталонії wa:Els Segadors zh:收割者