 | Topographic map = | Type= Stratovolcano | Age= | Last eruption= 2008 (ongoing)Global Volcanism ProgramLengai 2007 (through November) News Archive, Website maintained by Frederick A. Belton, Middle Tennessee State University. | First ascent= | Easiest route= Scramble  Ol Doinyo Lengai is a volcano located in the north of Tanzania and is part of the volcanic system of the Great Rift Valley in Eastern Africa. It is located in the eastern Rift Valley, south of both Lake Natron and Kenya. It is unique among active volcanoes in that it produces natrocarbonatite lava, a unique occurrence of volcanic carbonatite, which means its lava is only 510 degrees Celcius (or 950 degrees Fahrenheit). A few older extinct carbonatite volcanoes are located nearby, including Homa Mountain.Whereas most lavas are rich in silicate minerals, the lava of Ol Doinyo Lengai is rich in the rare sodium and potassium carbonates, nyerereite and gregoryite. Due to this unusual composition, the lava is erupted at relatively low temperatures (approximately 500-600 degrees Celsius). This temperature is so low that the molten lava appears black in sunlight, rather than having the red glow common to most lavas. It is also much more fluid than silicate lavas. The sodium and potassium carbonate minerals of the lavas formed by Ol Doinyo Lengai are unstable at the Earth's surface and susceptible to rapid weathering, quickly turning from black to grey in color. The resulting volcanic landscape is different from any other in the world. The chemical makeup of the lava has been compared to dish soap."Ol Doinyo Lengai" means "Mountain of God" in the language of the native Maasai people.Northern Tanzania with Kilimanjaro and Zanzibar by Phillip Briggs 2006 page 194 ISBN -10: 1 84162 146 3   The record of constant eruptions in the mountain goes way back to 1883, and that similar flows were recorded between 1904 and 1910 and again between 1913 and 1915. A major eruption took place in June 1917, which resulted in volcanic ash being deposited about 48 kilometres away.A similar eruption took place for several months in 1926 and between July and December of 1940, resulting in the ash being deposited as far as Loliondo, which is 100 kilometres away. Several minor eruptions of lava were observed in 1954, 1955, 1958 the early 1960s.In modern times, Ol donyo Lengai erupted on August 14, 1966. Two geologists — J B Dawson and G C Clark — who visited the crater a week later, reported seeing “a thick column of black ash” that rose for approximately three thousand feet above the volcano and drifted away northwards towards Lake Natron. When the two climbed the cone-shaped vent, they reported seeing a continuous discharge of gas and whitish-grey ash and dust from the centre of the pit.Volcanic activity in the mountain has caused daily earth tremors in Kenya and Tanzania beginning on the July 12, 2007. The latest to hit parts of Nairobi city was recorded on July 18, 2007 at 8.30pm (Kenyan Time). The strongest tremor has measured 6.0 on the Richter scale. Geologists suspect that the sudden increase of tremors is indicative of the movement of magma through the Ol Doinyo Lengai. The volcano finally erupted on September 4, 2007, sending a plume of ash and steam at least 18 kilometers downwind and covering the north and west flanks in fresh lava flows. The eruption has continued intermittently into 2008, as of the end of February it was reported that the eruption appeared to be gathering strength, with a major outburst taking place on March 5. During April periods of inactivity have been followed by eruptions on April 8 and 17. Latest news at Lengai, Website maintained by Frederick A. Belton, Middle Tennessee State University..Ascent RoutesThe ascent of Lengai is demanding on account of the day time heat, lack of water, steep slopes of ash and crumbly rocks and considerable height gain, 1600 m. (5300ft). Starting at midnight from a camp near Lake Natron it is just possible to reach the summit by dawn at a gentle pace (a 4x4 vehicle is required to reach the trackhead). Although shorts and a warm jacket are suitable for the ascent, long trousers might be more pleasant as the summit just before dawn can be cold. The most popular access route from the north-west allows an early descent to be made from the summit in the morning shade.An ascent from the east involves much less driving but involves the much hotter eastern slopes.Account of an ascentReferencesExternal linksOl Doinyo Lengai at nationalgeographic.comGlobal Volcanism ProgramOl Doinyo Lengai at Stromboli OnlineOl Doinyo Lengai at Volcano World[http://it.stlawu.edu/~cnya/ St Lawrence University Oldoinyo Lengai][http://www.mtsu.edu/~fbelton/lengai.html Middle Tennessee State Univ. Mountain of God][http://www.earlham.edu/~graveti/oldoinyolengai.htm Earlham College Ol Doinyo Lengai][http://www.volcanodiscovery.com/volcano-tours/news/tanzania/lengai_volcano.html Volcano Discovery Ol Doinyo Lengai volcano, Tanzania]Nation Media6.0 Earthquake shakes Northern Tanzania - not working 1.2.2008Earthquake Panic Grips Kenya and Tanzania - subscription required 1.2.2008Category:Stratovolcanoes Category:Volcanoes of the Great Rift Valley Category:Volcanoes of Tanzania Category:Mountains of Tanzania Category:Active volcanoescs:Ol Doinyo Lengai de:Ol Doinyo Lengai et:Ol Doinyo Lengai es:Ol Doinyo Lengai fr:Ol Doinyo Lengaï it:Ol Doinyo Lengai sw:Ol Doinyo Lengai lt:Ol Doinyo Lengai nl:Ol Doinyo Lengai pl:Ol Doinyo Lengai sk:Ol Doinyo Lengai