Nikolay Nikolayevich Semyonov () (April 15 (April 3, Old Style), 1896 – September 25, 1986) was a Russian/Soviet physicist and chemist. Semyonov was awarded the 1956 Nobel Prize in chemistry for his work on the mechanism of chemical transformation.LifeSemyonov was born in Saratov and graduated from the department of physics of Petrograd University (1913&ndash;1917), where he was a student of Abram Fyodorovich Ioffe. In 1918, he moved to Samara, where he was enlisted into Kolchak's White Army during Russian Civil War.In 1920, he returned to Petrograd and took charge of the electron phenomena laboratory of the Petrograd Physico-Technical Institute. He also became he vice-director of the intstitute. In 1921, he married philologist Maria Boreishe-Liverovsky (student of Zhirmunsky). She died two years later. In 1923, Nikolay married Maria's niece Natalia Nikolayevna Burtseva. She brought Nikolay a son (Yuri) and a daughter (Lyudmila).During that difficult time, Semyonov, together with Pyotr Kapitsa, discovered a way to measure the magnetic field of an atomic nucleus (1922). Later the experimental setup was improved by Otto Stern and Walther Gerlach and became known as Stern-Gerlach experiment.In 1925, Semyonov, together with Yakov Frenkel, studied kinetics of condensation and adsorbtion of vapors. In 1927, he studied ionisation in gases and published an important book, Chemistry of the Electron. In 1928, he, together with Vladimir Fock, created a theory of thermal disruptive discharge of dielectrics.He lectured at the Petrograd Polytechnical Institute and was appointed Professor in 1928. In 1931, he organized the Institute of Chemical Physics of the U.S.S.R. Academy of Sciences (which has moved to Chernogolovka in 1943) and became its first director. In 1932, he became a full member of the Soviet Academy of Sciences.Significant worksSemyonov's outstanding work on the mechanism of chemical transformation includes an exhaustive analysis of the application of the chain theory to varied reactions (1934&ndash;1954) and, more significantly, to combustion processes. He proposed a theory of degenerate branching, which led to a better understanding of the phenomena associated with the induction periods of oxidation processes.Semyonov wrote two important books outlining his work. Chemical Kinetics and Chain Reactions was published in 1934 with an English edition in 1935. It was the first book in the U.S.S.R. to develop a detailed theory of unbranched and branched chain reactions in chemistry. Some Problems of Chemical Kinetics and Reactivity, first published in 1954, was revised in 1958; there are also English, American, German, and Chinese editions.In 1956, he was awarded the Nobel Prize in Chemistry (together with Sir Cyril Norman Hinshelwood) for this work. Semyonov also became a Hero of Socialist Labor twice, received two Stalin Prizes, five Orders of Lenin, and many other awards.References Biography of Nikolay Semyonov at NobelPrize.org. Semyonov's Nobel Lecture. Semyonov's Biography. Another Semyonov's Biography.External linksSemyonov's Nobel Foundation biographySemyonov's Nobel Lecture Some Problems Relating to Chain Reactions and to the Theory of CombustionN.N. Semenov Institute of Chemical Physics Category:1896 births Category:1986 deaths Category:Saint Petersburg State University alumni Category:Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology faculty Category:Heroes of Socialist Labor Category:Members of the Russian Academy of Sciences Category:Nobel laureates in Chemistry Category:Russian chemists Category:Russian Nobel laureates Category:Russian physicists Category:Soviet chemists Category:Soviet physicists Category:Stalin Prize winnersar:نيكولاي سيميونوف ca:Nikolai Semenov de:Nikolai Nikolajewitsch Semjonow es:Nikolái Semiónov fr:Nikolaï Semionov id:Nikolai Nikolayevich Semyonov it:Nikolaj Nikolaevič Semënov he:ניקולאי סמיונוב sw:Nikolay Semyonov ht:Nikolay Semyonov nl:Nikolaj Semjonov ja:ニコライ・セミョーノフ oc:Nikolay Nikolaevich Semenov pl:Nikołaj Siemionow pt:Nikolay Nikolayevich Semyonov ro:Nikolai Semionov ru:Семёнов, Николай Николаевич sl:Nikolaj Nikolajevič Semjonov fi:Nikolai Semjonov sv:Nikolaj Semenov uk:Семенов Микола Миколайович zh:尼古拉·谢苗诺夫