 New Amsterdam or Île Amsterdam  (meaning Amsterdam island after the Dutch capital) is a French island in the Indian Ocean located at . It is part of the French Southern and Antarctic Lands.DescriptionThe island is volcanic but has been inactive since 1792. It has an area of 55&nbsp;km² (21&nbsp;mi²), measuring 21&nbsp;km (13&nbsp;mi) on its longest side, and reaches as high as 867&nbsp;m (2844&nbsp;ft) at the Mont de la Dives.The island is part of the French Southern and Antarctic Lands (Terres australes et antarctiques françaises; TAAF), and together with neighboring Île Saint-Paul (85&nbsp;km to the South) forms one of the five districts of the territory. Its base, Martin-de-Viviès, formerly called La Roche Gódon, is the capital of the territory.Unlike most parts of TAAF, Île Amsterdam has a mild, oceanic climate, with a mean annual temperature of 13°C (55°F, rainfall of 1,100&nbsp;mm, persistent westerly winds and high levels of humidity.http://www.ndsu.edu/subantarctic/ile_amsterdam.htmÎle Amsterdam is one of only three islands which are land antipodes of the continental United States. It corresponds to an area near La Junta, Colorado. The other two antipodes are île Saint-Paul and Kerguelen Island.Flora and faunaThe island has Phylica arborea trees, which are also found on Tristan da Cunha.The island is home to the Amsterdam Albatross, which breeds only on the Plateau des Tourbières on Île Amsterdam. The island is also home to other rare species, such as the Great Skua, the Antarctic Tern, the Gentoo penguin, the Subantarctic Fur Seal and the Elephant seal.The only existing herd of completely wild cattle also lives on the island.HistoryThis island was discovered by the Spanish explorer Juan Sebastián Elcano on March 18, 1522, along his first world circumnavigation. Elcano did not name the island, however.Having found the island unnamed, the Dutch captain Anthonie van Diemen named it Nieuw Amsterdam (Dutch for New Amsterdam) after his ship in 1633. French Captain François Péron, was marooned three years on this island. Péron had been on the French ship Emélie, which wrecked on New Amsterdam in 1792. He was rescued and taken to Australia in 1795. Peron's Memoires, in which he describes his survival alone on New Amsterdam, were published in a limited edition and are now an expensive collectors' item.The islands of Île Amsterdam and Île Saint-Paul were attached to Madagascar in 1924 and hence became a French colony.The first French base in New Amsterdam was erected in 1949, and was originally called Camp Heurtin. The Global Atmosphere Watch still has a research station on Île Amsterdam.See alsoList of volcanoes in French Southern and Antarctic LandsFrench overseas departments and territoriesAdministrative divisions of FranceIslands controlled by France in the Indian and Pacific oceansBooksPÉRON, Pierre François. Mémoires du Capitaine Péron, sur ses Voyages aux Côtes d’Afrique, en Arabie, a l’Île d’Amsterdam, aux Îles d’Anjouan et de Mayotte, aux Côtes Nord-Oeust de l’Amérique, aux Îles Sandwich, a la Chine, etc. Paris 1824External linksphotos of Ile Amsterdam and St.Paul (French site)Ile Amsterdam visit (photos from a tourist's recent visit)http://www.discoverfrance.net/Colonies/St-Paul_Amsterdam.shtmlFrench Southern and Antarctic Lands at the CIA World FactbookSouth Atlantic &amp; Subantarctic Islands site, Amsterdam Island page   Category:Dependent territories Category:French Southern and Antarctic Lands Category:Volcanoes of France Category:Volcanoes of the Southern Ocean Category:Volcanoes of the Indian Ocean af:Amsterdameiland de:Amsterdam (Insel) el:Νήσος Άμστερνταμ es:Islas de San Pablo y Amsterdam fr:Amsterdam (île) hr:Otok Amsterdam it:Isola Amsterdam lv:Amsterdama (sala) lij:Isoa d'Amsterdam nl:Amsterdam (Indische Oceaan) ja:アムステルダム島 pl:Amsterdam (wyspa) pt:Île Amsterdam ro:Insula Amsterdam ru:Амстердам (остров) sk:Nový Amsterdam (ostrov) sr:Острво Амстердам fi:Amsterdamsaari sv:Amsterdamön, Indiska oceanen uk:Амстердам (острів) zh:阿姆斯特丹岛