Powdered milk is a manufactured dairy product made by evaporating milk to dryness. The purpose in drying milk is to preserve it - milk powder has a far longer shelf life than liquid milk and does not need to be refrigerated, due to its low moisture content - and to reduce its bulk for economy of transportation. Available as Dry Whole Milk (DWM), it is most commonly produced as Non-Fat Dry Milk (NFDM), also known as Dried Skim Milk (DSM).History and ManufactureWhile Marco Polo wrote of Mongolian Tatar troops in the time of Kublai Kahn carrying sun-dried skimmed milk as "a kind of paste"p 262 in "The Book of Ser Marco Polo, Book 1" translated by Sir Henry Yule (3rd edition), Charles Scrabner's Sons, New York, 1903, the first usable commercial process to produce dried milk was invented by T.S. Grimwade and patented in 1855p 277 in "Condensed Milk and Milk Powder, 3rd edition" authored and published by O.F. Hunziker, 1920, though a William Newton had patented a vacuum drying process as early as 1837p 318 in "Foods: Their Composition and Analysis: A Manual for the Use of Analytical Chemists and Others" by A.W. Blyth, published by C. Griffin, 1896. Today, powdered milk is usually made by spray drying"Milk Powder" by K.N. Pearce, Food Science Section, New Zealand Dairy Research Institute.http://www.nzic.org.nz/ChemProcesses/dairy/3C.pdf nonfat skim milk or whole milk. Pasteurized milk is first concentrated in an evaporator to about 50% milk solids. The resulting concentrated milk is sprayed into a heated chamber where the water almost instantly evaporates, leaving fine particles of powdered milk solids.Alternatively, the milk can be dried by drum drying. Milk is applied as a thin film to the surface of a heated drum, and the dried milk solids are then scraped off. Powdered milk made this way tends to have a cooked flavor, due to caramelization caused by greater heat exposure.Another process is freeze drying, which preserves many nutrients in milk, compared to drum drying. http://nl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vriesdrogen_%28conservering%29The drying method and the heat treatment of the milk as it is processed alters the properties of the milk powder (for example, solubility in cold water, flavor, bulk density).UsesPowdered milk is frequently used in manufacture of infant formula, confectionery such as chocolate and caramel, baked goods, in recipes where adding liquid milk would render the product too thin to be used. Powdered milk is also widely used in various sweets such as the famous Indian milk sweet balls known as Gulab jamun.It is also a common in UN food aid supplies, fallout shelters, warehouses and wherever fresh milk is not a viable option. It is widely used in many developing countries because of reduced transport and storage costs (reduced bulk and weight, no refrigerated vehicles). As with other dry foods, it is considered nonperishable and is favored by survivalists, hikers and others needing of nonperishable, easy to prepare food.Reconstituting 1 cup of milk from powdered milk requires 1 cup of potable water and 1/3 cup of powdered milk.Powdered milk is also used in Western blots as a blocking buffer to prevent nonspecific protein interactionsp 82 in "Lab Ref, Volume 2: A Handbook of Recipes, Reagents, and Other Reference Tools for Use at the Bench" by A.S. Mellick and L. Rodgers, CSHL Press, 2002, ISBN 978-0879696306, and is referred to as Blotto.Food and healthNutritional valueMilk powders contain all twenty standard amino acids (the building blocks of proteins) and are high in soluble vitamins and mineralsMilk Powder Nutritional Information, US Dairy Export Council http://www.usdec.org/Products/content.cfm?ItemNumber=82658&amp;navItemNumber=82273. According to USAIDUSAID Comodities Reference Guide, Non Fat Dry Milk (Jan 2006)http://www.usaid.gov/our_work/humanitarian_assistance/ffp/crg/fsnfdrymilk.htm the typical average amounts of major nutrients in the unreconstituted milk are (by weight) 36% protein, 52% carbohydrates (predominantly lactose), calcium 1.3%, potassium 1.8%. Their milk powder is fortified with Vitamin A and D, 3000IU and 600IU respectively per 100g. Inappropriate storage conditions (high relative humidity and high ambient temperature) can significantly degrade the nutritive value of milk powderM. Okamoto and R. Hayashi (1985) "Chemical and Nutritional Changes of Milk Powder Proteins under Various Water Activities" Agric. Biol. Chem., Vol.49 (6), pp 1683-1687..OxysterolsCommercial milk powders are reported to contain, in general, very low levels of oxysterols (OS)p 655 in "Advanced Dairy Chemistry: Volume 2 - Lipids" by P.F. Fox and P. McSweeney, Birkhäuser, 2006 ISBN 978-0387263649. However, compared to fresh milk (trace levels), powdered milk is higher in oxysterols (oxidized cholesterol), up to 30μg/g, yet significantly lower than powdered eggs (200μg/g)p 296 in "Toxins in Food" by W.M. Dabrowski and Z.E. Sikorski, CRC Press, 2004, ISBN 978-0849319044. The OS free radicals have been suspected of being initiators of atherosclerotic plaquesR.W. Hubbard, Y.Ono and A. Sanchez (1989) Prog Food Nutr Sci. Vol.13(1) pp 17-44. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/2678267?dopt=AbstractPlus.AdulterationIn the 2008 baby milk scandal in China, melamine adulterant was found in Sanlu infant formula, added to fool tests into reporting higher protein content. Thousands became ill and some children died after consuming the product.See alsoBaked milkCondensed milkEvaporated milkScalded milkCoconut milk powderReferencesCategory:Granular materials Category:Milk Category:Dried foods Category:Dairy productsde:Milchpulver es:Leche en polvo eo:Laktopulvoro fr:Lait en poudre id:Susu bubuk it:Latte in polvere he:אבקת חלב lt:Pieno milteliai nl:Melkpoeder ja:粉ミルク pl:Mleko w proszku pt:Leite em pó ru:Сухое молоко simple:Milk powder fi:Maitojauhe sv:Mjölkpulver zh-yue:奶粉 zh:奶粉