 Marvin Bernard, better known by his stage name Tony Yayo, is a rapper who is part of the rap group G-Unit.BiographyG-Unit50 Cent was soon granted his own record label by Dr. Dre and released the album Get Rich or Die Tryin. Soon after the group had established their own record label, G-Unit Records, G-Unit released their first official group album Beg for Mercy in November 2003, which went on to be certified 2x Platinum. Lamy, Jonathan (December 18 2003). 2003 Ends With a Bang!. RIAA. Accessed July 10 2007. 50 Cent Biography: Contemporary Musicians. eNotes. Accessed July 18 2007.Free YayoOn December 31 2002, nearly a year before the release of G-Unit's highly anticipated album, Beg for Mercy, Tony Yayo was arrested along with 50 Cent on weapons-possession charges. During a background check, police discovered Yayo had an outstanding warrant for a previous weapons-possession charge. In early 2003, he was sentenced for bail jumping and would remain in jail until the beginning of 2004. As a result, he was unable to record for the album and was therefore only featured on two tracks that had been recorded before.During Tony Yayo's imprisonment, G-Unit became increasingly popular. They started a campaign called "Free Yayo". Many G-Unit videos featured the group's members wearing "Free Yayo" t-shirts, but Yayo himself was unaware of the attention he was receiving. The prison inmates that Yayo shared a television with preferred watching sports rather than music videos. When Eminem and 50 Cent were scheduled to make an appearance during the Grammy Awards, he convinced everyone to change the channel. It was the first time he saw a "Free Yayo" shirt-this time worn by Eminem.Eminem wearing ‘Free Yayo’ T-Shirt. Accessed July 29 2007. Inspired by the shirt, he started working extra hard on his rhymes while keeping in touch with the G-Unit crew who were letting him know that he would get his chance once he was a free man.On January 8 2004, Tony Yayo was released from prison, but after presenting a forged passport to his parole officer a day later, he was imprisoned again for a few weeks. Upon release, Tony Yayo was finally able to start work on his debut album. Whilst working on his album, he was also recording on the G-Unit Radio mixtape series in which he announced his return on the street level.AlbumsWhile his appearances on mixtapes announced his return on the street level, his summer hit "So Seductive" let the rest of the world know. In August, while his single was dominating urban radio, MTV, and BET, Tony Yayo released his debut, Thoughts of a Predicate Felon.Tony Yayo-Thoughts Of A Predicate Felon-Release. Accessed July 29 2007. The other singles that were released from this album were: "Curious", "Pimpin'", "Drama Setter", and "I Know You Don’t Love Me".Tony Yayo has confirmed that work is in progress for his second studio album.Steve Raze (November 5 2007). Lloyd Banks &amp; Tony Yayo: Shooters, Part 2. AllHipHop. Accessed November 6 2007. The album was originally called Godfather of the Ghetto, then I Am 50's Tax Write-off, finally leaving Tony Yayo undecided on a title.DefSounds. May 22 2008. G-Unit Q&amp;A Session Part 2. DefSounds. Accessed May 24 2008.ControversyThe Game Tony Yayo willingly involves himself in the G-Unit and The Game feud. He has been known to denounce The Game's street credibility in various interviews and diss songs. On his mixtape G-Unit Radio Pt.23: Finally Off Papers, Tony Yayo made some hits towards The Game in the track Mo Money, Mo Problems by poking fun about his album sales being considerably less without the help of 50 Cent or G-Unit. At the end of the track, he finished by calling The Game a "faggot". In an interview with MTV, Tony Yayo aired his feeling towards many rappers who he "doesn’t believe". He said Czar EntertainmentOn March 24 2007, Tony Yayo was arrested for allegedly assaulting the 14 year-old son of The Game's manager, Jimmy "Henchmen" Rosemond. Tony Yayo and 50 Cent were accused of approaching the child, with members of their entourage, and pushing him against a nearby wall. This was when Tony Yayo reportedly slapped the boy several times and said "Fuck Czar Entertainment". Tony Yayo has pleaded "not guilty" and 50 Cent has since proven his innocence with video footage showing him at his Connecticut mansion at the time of the alleged incident.Rich Rock (March 24 2007). Tony Yayo Arrested For Teen Assault, Young Buck Release Distracted. SOHH. Accessed July 29 2007.Tony Yayo made his first court appearance on the morning of April 25 2007 in New York. The case was adjourned to July 24. Tony Yayo’s Lawyer has expressed his belief that Yayo is innocent and commented on the situation in an interview with MTV: On April 18 2007, the house of Tony Yayo’s mother was "sprayed with bullets". The attack is believed to be in connection with Tony Yayo’s recent arrest. Tony Yayo’s Mother’s House Attacked. Accessed July 29 2007. The Game later released a "diss" track on his mixtape You Know What It Is Vol. 4: Murda Game Chronicles, titled "Body Bags".On July 24 2007, Tony Yayo attended a court hearing regarding his alleged assault. The prosecution offered him a nine-month prison sentence if he pleaded guilty which he rejected. His lawyer, Scott Leemon, said: One of the men from Tony Yayo's entourage, a co-defendant, admitted that it was him, not Yayo who slapped Henchmen Junior on January 10, 2008.[http://www.hhworlds.com/f11/01-10-08-tony-yayo-s-co-defendant-reveals-he-slapped-jimmy-henchman-s-son-11220.html HHWorlds.com - Tony Yayo's Co-Defendant Reveals He Slapped Jimmy Henchman's Son (January 10, 2008)]Cam’ronTony Yayo openly involves himself in 50 Cent's Feuds. The most recent example of this would be the 50 Cent Vs Cam’ron Feud. Although Tony Yayo hasn’t released a direct diss track towards Cam’ron he has voiced his opinion through interviews. In an interview with MTV, Tony Yayo commented on what he thinks of the situation:Jim JonesThis feud took off when Tony Yayo yelled "boring" instead of "balling" (a reference to "We Fly High") backstage at a show where both G-Unit and Dipset were performing.Tony Yayo confirms that he yelled ‘Boring’ at Jim Jones Jim Jones responded in an interview on a radio station by saying that Tony Yayo was an immigrant. Jim Jones said:Tony Yayo took a shot at Jim Jones on Shade 45, claiming that Jim Jones was trash, and that he was disrespecting Haitians.Tony Yayo Dissing Jim Jones On Shade 45. Accessed July 29 2007. Tony Yayo stated that Jim Jones tried to phone him, but Tony Yayo refused to take the call. He said: Tony Yayo later addressed Jim Jones on his mixtape Finally Off Papers (G-Unit Radio Pt. 23) on the track "Mo Money, Mo Problems".Tony Yayo-“Mo Money Mo Problems”-Game and Jim Jones Diss track He yells "Boring!" in the background to mock Jim Jones as well as shouting other insults towards him at the end of the track. StopNetBanging. (March 2 2007). Tony Yayo–Mo Money Mo Problems (Jim Jones And Game Diss). Def Sounds. Accessed July 29 2007.Tony Yayo and Jim Jones have settled their feud and have even performed together. They also both appeared on BET's "Rap City" which 50 Cent was hosting.Jayson Rodriguez (September 14 2007). 50 Cent Joins Forces With Jim Jones, Covers Kanye West at First of Five NYC Shows. MTV. Accessed October 15 2007.DiscographyThoughts of a Predicate Felon (2005)ReferencesExternal linksOfficial website   Category:1978 births Category:Living people Category:G-Unit members Category:Haitian musicians Category:People from Queens Category:Dumout Records artists Category:G-Unit Records artists Category:Haitian hip hop musicians Category:Haitian Americans da:Tony Yayo de:Tony Yayo es:Tony Yayo fr:Tony Yayo ko:토니 야요 it:Tony Yayo he:טוני יאיו ka:ტონი იეიო ku:Tony Yayo hu:Tony Yayo nl:Tony Yayo ja:トニー・イエイヨー no:Tony Yayo pl:Tony Yayo pt:Tony Yayo fi:Tony Yayo sv:Tony Yayo uk:Tony Yayo