 , ) |company_slogan = Thinking new perspectives |founder = Alfred Escher |foundation = 1856 |location =  Zürich, Switzerland |key_people = Brady Dougan (CEO) Oswald Grübel (Former CEO) |num_employees = 48,000 Facts&amp;Figures, accessed 2008-02-16 |industry = Finance |products = Financial services |revenue = CHF 36.13 billion CREDIT SUISSE Results 2007 |net_income = CHF 8.549 billion  |company_slogan = Thinking new perspectives. |homepage = www.credit-suisse.com The Credit Suisse Group (, ) is a financial services company, headquartered in Zurich, Switzerland. Credit Suisse was founded by Alfred Escher in 1856 under the name Schweizerische Kreditanstalt (SKA, Swiss Credit Institution). The bank is organized into three divisions, Investment Banking, Private Banking, and Asset Management. Shared Services, which includes functions such as IT and legal/compliance, encompasses all three major areas.In 1942, it opened its first branch outside of Switzerland, in New York City. In 1988, it gained a controlling stake in The First Boston Corporation, hence the long-time name of its investment banking unit Credit Suisse First Boston. In 1993, Credit Suisse Group bought Schweizerische Volksbank (People's Bank of Switzerland). In 1996 the two retail banks were merged and renamed Credit Suisse. In 2000, it acquired the investment bank Donaldson, Lufkin &amp; Jenrette (DLJ) and, with it, an e-commerce software portfolio, including DLJ Direct, that it later sold to the Bank of Montreal.StructureThe Credit Suisse Group is structured in three divisions, Investment Banking, Private Banking and Asset Management . On January 16, 2006, Credit Suisse First Boston (CSFB), now the Investment Banking division, Credit Suisse Asset Management (CSAM), and Credit Suisse Private Banking (CSPB), re-branded themselves, becoming collectively known as Credit Suisse. This move was initiated to better leverage each others' resources and capabilities to create a "One Bank" brand and effort.Credit SuisseThe Credit Suisse business unit is a provider of wide-ranging financial services in Europe and other selected markets. It offers investment products, private banking and financial advisory services for private and corporate clients. Credit Suisse was founded by Alfred Escher.Private Banking - Credit Suisse is one of the world’s largest private banking organizations with branches in Switzerland and numerous international markets. Private Banking specializes in providing personal investment counseling and professional asset management to affluent individuals.Corporate & Retail Banking - In Corporate & Retail Banking, Credit Suisse occupies a leading position in the Swiss market. It provides a wide range of high-quality banking services for private and corporate clients in Switzerland. In addition, it offers clients user-friendly and innovative online banking services.Financial Institutions - Expert to expert banking. Professional advice and tailor-made solutions for banks and financial institutions all around the world.Credit Suisse First Boston (Renamed Credit Suisse, Investment Banking Division)Credit Suisse First Boston (Renamed Credit Suisse) is active in investment banking, capital markets and financial services. It is a member of the prestigious bulge bracket of securities firms.Institutional Securities - Securities serves the broad needs of institutional clients with expertise in Equities, Fixed Income, Prime Services and Research. Investment Banking serves corporate clients' needs through Mergers and Acquisitions, Equity Capital Markets, Debt Capital Markets, Private Placements and Leveraged Finance services.Credit Suisse Private Banking CSPB (Renamed Credit Suisse Private Banking Division)Within the Private Banking sector Credit Suisse provides comprehensive advice and delivers a broad range of investment products and services tailored to the complex needs of high-net-worth individuals globally. Credit Suisse’s structured advisory process encompasses both asset and liability management. Furthermore, Credit Suisse is a leading provider of innovative alternative investment products. Wealth management solutions include tax planning; pension planning; life insurance solutions; wealth and inheritance advice, trusts and foundations. Credit Suisse offers multiple booking platforms and global execution capabilities. In Switzerland, Credit Suisse supplies banking products and services to private banking clients as well as to business and retail clients.Asset ManagementIn its asset management business, Credit Suisse offers products across the full spectrum of investment classes, ranging from equities, fixed income and multiple-asset class products, to alternative investments such as real estate, hedge funds, private equity and volatility management. Credit Suisse’s asset management business manages portfolios, mutual funds, and other investment vehicles for a broad spectrum of clients ranging from governments, institutions and corporations to private individuals. With offices focused on asset management in 18 countries, Credit Suisse’s asset management business is operated as a globally integrated network to deliver the bank’s best investment ideas and capabilities to clients around the globe.Shared ServicesIn Shared Services, Credit Suisse provides services to support the divisions, while improving independent controls. The Shared Services divisions include CFO, COO, CRO, General Counsel, and IT division.Winterthur was divested from Credit Suisse on June 14, 2006. AXA acquired the leading Swiss insurance company from Credit Suisse Group for about 8 billion Euros. Credit Suisse Group sells Winterthur to AXAUnitsThe company has three operating units as of 2004.Credit Suisse, private bankCredit Suisse First Boston, investment bank (renamed Credit Suisse 1/16/2006)Credit Suisse Asset Management, asset management.History1856 - Credit Suisse founded1905 - First branch (in Basel)1940 - First branch outside Switzerland (in New York)1978 - Start of co-operation with The First Boston Corporation1988 - Controlling stake in The First Boston Corporation, which is renamed CS First Boston1989 - CS Holding became parent company of the Group1990 - Acquisition of Bank Leu1993 - Acquisition of Swiss Volksbank1994 - Strategic alliance with Swiss Re1995 - Strategic alliance with Winterthur Group1996 - CS Holding becomes Credit Suisse Group; investment banking business named Credit Suisse First Boston (CSFB)1997 - Merger with Winterthur Group2000 - Acquisition of Donaldson, Lufkin &amp; Jenrette (DLJ)2001 - Sponsorship for the Sauber Petronas Team (now BMW Sauber F1 Team)2002 - Streamlining of the Group's organizational structure into two business units: Credit Suisse Financial Services and Credit Suisse First Boston2004 - Focusing the Group's organizational structure on three business units:Credit Suisse, Credit Suisse First Boston and Winterthur2006 - Credit Suisse undergoes a rebranding and structural shift to the "One Bank" model. It divests Winterthur to AXA and the newly reorganized Investment Bank replaces the old CSFB. The First Boston affiliation is retired.2008 - Credit Suisse suspends some of its traders in connection with the overvaluation of assets by $2.85 billion.Credit Suisse writes down $2.85BMergers &amp; AcquisitionsCSFB USA is a wholly owned subsidiary of Credit Suisse First Boston Inc., which is, in turn, a wholly owned subsidiary of CS. CS is a wholly owned subsidiary of CSG. CSFB USA was created through the merger with DLJ, which was completed on Nov. 3, 2000. CSFB LLC, CSFB's principal U.S. registered broker-dealer subsidiary, became a subsidiary of DLJ, and DLJ changed its name to CSFB USA.Prior to the DLJ Merger, the Credit Suisse Group (CS) purchased First Boston in 1988 creating CS First Boston. The firm's bulge bracket status came after the merger with Donaldson, Lufkin &amp; Jenrette (DLJ).http://www.credit-suisse.com/en/csgn/pdf/sp-csfb_usa_20050726-research.pdfHoldingsCredit Suisse has a holding in London City Airport, which it purchased in 2006 along with other investors.CriticismsIn 2007, Credit Suisse was criticised for coordinating the listing of the Malaysian logging corporation Samling at the Hong Kong stock exchange. Environmentalists accuse Samling of rainforest destruction and illegal logging. Credit Suisse maintains that Samling was critically assessed prior to its initial public offering by experts from the banks that participated in the listing and by an independent agency. The conclusion was that the company meets all relevant national and international standards on sustainable forestry.Bruno Manser Fonds: Rainforest NGOs launch campaign against Samling stock exchange listingProtest against the Samling involvement (in German)Media release of Samling, May 9, 2007In an article published by Reuters on Feb 23, 2008, Brazilian public prosecutor Karen Kahn announced that several employees of Credit Suisse as well as others from UBS, Clariden Leu and AIG were under investigation by federal authorities.Des banques Suisses contournent nos règles Brésiliennes from LeTemps.ch (French)  In 2007, police arrested 20 people, including bankers at UBS, Credit Suisse unit Clariden and AIG Private Bank after the discovery of illegal activities including money laundering, tax evasion, fraudulent banking and operating without a banking license.UBS and Credit Suisse bankers arrested in Brazil tax probe from Reuters 23 April 2008 During the course of Operation Switzerland in 2008, Christian Peter Weiss and 13 other employees of Credit Suisse were arrested in Rio de Janeiro for helping operate an illegal money transfer scheme.London City Airport, co-owned by Credit Suisse since 2006, has been critisied for putting in a planning application to increase flights from 80,000 to 120,000 per year. Campaigners claim that London City is under pressure from Credit Suisse for profits. The airport is located in a sensitive residental area, so an increase in flights will affect many residents. Campaigners say the airport is breaking promises to residents that it will only fly smaller quieter planes and limit the number of flights. A report says 11,000 homes will be affected by aircraft noise. Climate change Campaigners say Credit Suisse contradicts itself, by telling employees not to fly, but at the same time expanding airport operation.Fight the FlightsQuick factsFrank Quattrone was poached from Deutsche Bank and helped CS jump to the top of the tech and Internet advisory league tables in the late '90s. He was later caught up in a lawsuit regarding the illegal deletion of data relating to Mergers and acquisitions deals and was subsequently sacked by the firm. Quattrone was finally cleared in 2006 after reaching a deal with prosecutors when his planned retrial ultimately collapsed.CS was ranked #2 in the total volume of high-yield bond issuance and #1 in high-yield transactions in 2004 (mainly with the high-yield team acquired through the DLJ merger), it also held the #3 position in global IPO underwriting in 2004.CS was awarded the Best Foreign Investment Bank in Indonesia in 2005.Credit Suisse First Boston (CSFB) and Morgan Stanley were principal underwriters of the 2004 Google IPO.First Boston along with Salomon Brothers were the original creators of the collateralized mortgage obligation, invented in June 1983. Along with junk bonds, the CMO is considered one of the most important financial innovations of the 1980s. These securities, more widely known as mortgage-backed securities, were the main catalyst for the credit crisis starting in 2007 when the fundamentals of the underlying mortgages began to weaken.Winterthur Group was divested to AXA, the French insurance company for approximately $10B on July 14th, 2006.The firm's High Yield/Distress Trading Desk is consistently ranked the best group on Wall Street for both bonds and bank debt. The Leverage Finance division's strength originates from the acquisition of DLJAustin Healey the former English rugby union footballer, who played as a utility back for Leicester Tigers, and has represented England and the British Lions now works for Credit Suisse.Sir John Major the former British Prime Minister acts as an advisor to the firmFollowing the merger with DLJ, CSFB led the M&A League tables in number of deals from 2000-2002.League Tables&lt;!--Bot-generated title--&gt; As of Q3 2007, Credit Suisse ranks 6th in worldwide completed M&A by imputed fees, 7th for worldwide announced M&A by rank value and 6th in worldwide completed M&A by rank value for the year 2007. In the U.S., CS ranks 4th in completed M&A by imputed fees, 7th for announced M&A by rank value and 7th in completed M&A by rank value for the year 2007.Thomson Reuters&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Credit Suisse was recognized as the "Global Investment Bank of the Year" in The Banker magazine's annual Global Investment Banking Awards published in the October 2007 editionPRESS RELEASE October 15, 2007: Credit Suisse Named Global Investment Bank of the Year by The Banker Magazine&lt;!--Bot-generated title--&gt;. Credit Suisse also won three prestigious house awards, including Best Leveraged Finance HouseLeveraged Finance House Of The Year: Credit Suisse - The Banker&lt;!--Bot-generated title--&gt;, Best High Yield Bond HouseHigh Yield Bond House Of The Year: Credit Suisse - The Banker&lt;!--Bot-generated title--&gt; and Best Convertibles HouseConvertibles House Of The Year: Credit Suisse - The Banker&lt;!--Bot-generated title--&gt;.See alsoEuropean Financial Services RoundtableREFF Wall StreetMain competitorsABN AMROBarclays CapitalBank of America Securities LLCBNP ParibasCitigroupDeutsche BankDresdner KleinwortGoldman SachsHSBCJP Morgan ChaseLazardMacquarie BankMerrill LynchMorgan StanleyN M Rothschild &amp; SonsUBSRBC Capital MarketsWachoviaNotes and referencesCompany timelineExternal linksOfficial siteCompany dataYahoo! - Credit Suisse Group Company ProfileCredit Suisse stock quote &amp; chart at Gstock   Category:Banks of Switzerland Category:Companies established in 1856 Category:Investment banks Category:Entities involved in United States housing bubbleda:Credit Suisse de:Credit Suisse es:Credit Suisse Group fr:Credit Suisse Group id:Credit Suisse it:Credit Suisse lt:Credit Suisse Group nl:Credit Suisse ja:クレディ・スイス no:Credit Suisse pl:Credit Suisse pt:Credit Suisse ro:Credit Suisse ru:Credit Suisse fi:Credit Suisse sv:Credit Suisse tr:Credit Suisse