  | birth_place = Buenos Aires, Argentina | death_date =  | death_place = Buenos Aires, Argentina | order = 4th Commander in Chief of the Army of the North | term_start = March 26, 1812 | term_end = January 30, 1814 | predecessor = Juan Martín de Pueyrredón | successor = José de San Martín | order2 = 8th Commander in Chief of the Army of the North | term_start2 = August 7, 1816 | term_end2 = December 11 1819 | predecessor2 = José Rondeau | successor2 = Francisco Fernández de la Cruz | profession = Lawyer Manuel José Joaquín del Corazón de Jesús Belgrano, usually referred to as Manuel Belgrano (June 3, 1770 &ndash; June 20, 1820) was an Argentine economist, lawyer, politician, and military leader, born in Buenos Aires.During the last years of the Viceroyalty of the River Plate, Belgrano occupied the seat of Secretary of Economy of Buenos Aires consulate, a new born local institution which dealt with commercial and industrial issues in the name of the crown. He founded the Escuela de Naútica (School of Navigation) in 1799.After the Spanish rule was overthrown in 1810, Belgrano was appointed general by the first autonomous government of Argentina. Shortly after his assignment, Belgrano led an ill-fated military campaign to Paraguay, still held by Spanish loyalists. The Argentine expedition, although beaten off, eventually prompted the Paraguayan declaration of independence on May 1811. In 1812, he created the national flag of Argentina; it was raised for the first time on February 27 of that year, on an island in the Paraná River, opposite the city of Rosario. He also led the Jujuy Exodus (Éxodo Jujeño), which prepared the ground for victories of the Argentine War of Independence in the northwest of the country.Belgrano was one of the leaders of the Argentine Declaration of Independence, promulgated on July 9, 1816. He proposed that Argentina should have a constitutional monarchy led by an Inca descendant, but this idea did not gain support. Belgrano's health suffered greatly during his multiple expeditions and campaigns, held in generally bad conditions. At the age of 50 he died of dropsy, very poor and practically forgotten by the national government that he had served.Commemoration A monument complex (Monumento Nacional a la Bandera, National Flag Memorial) was built in 1957 in honor of the flag, in Rosario. The Flag Memorial and the park that surrounds it are the seat of national celebrations every Flag Day, on June 20, the anniversary of Belgrano's death.The warship ARA General Belgrano, which was sunk during the Falklands War, was named after him. A small town in the province of Córdoba, Argentina, Villa General Belgrano, is also named after him, as well as "Avenida Belgrano" in the City of Buenos Aires, and part of the avenue that leads to the Flag Memorial in Rosario (Avenida Belgrano). Additionally, there is a northern barrio within Buenos Aires proper that carries the name Belgrano. Category:1770 births Category:1820 deaths Category:Argentine generals Category:Argentine lawyers Category:Argentine politicians Category:People from Buenos Aires Category:Argentine military personnel Category:People of South American wars of independence Category:Vexillographers Category:People of the Argentine War of Independence Category:Argentine generals Category:Argentine monarchistsCategory:Argentines of Italian descent Category:Argentines of Spanish descent External linksVirtual Visit to the Flag Memorialde:Manuel Belgrano es:Manuel Belgrano eo:Manuel Belgrano fr:Manuel Belgrano it:Manuel Belgrano lt:Manuel Belgrano lij:Manuel Belgrano nl:Manuel Belgrano pl:Manuel Belgrano pt:Manuel Belgrano sl:Manuel Belgrano sr:Мануел Белграно sv:Manuel Belgrano