  Papa Roach is a four-piece rock band from Atlanta, Georgia. They broke into the mainstream with their three times platinum major-label debut album Infest (2000). The group's success continued with later releases Lovehatetragedy (2002) and Getting Away with Murder (2004). The group's fourth major album, The Paramour Sessions, was released on September 12, 2006. Their new album, Metamorphosis, will be released in February 2009.Band historyPapa Roach's early yearsThe formation of Papa Roach began in January of 1993, when Jacoby Shaddix (vocals) and Dave Buckner (drums) met on the Vacaville High School football field during an intense match, where the two ended up talking about music. They were later joined by Will James (bass) and Ben Luther (trombone) completing Papa Roach’s first ever line-up. They decided to enter the school's talent show, where they performed a cover version of Jimi Hendrix's famous song, Fire. They ultimately didn't win the contest. The band's name comes from Shaddix's step-grandfather, Howard William Roatch, who was nicknamed Papa Roach. Roatch committed suicide in 2006. The band pay homage to him with The Paramour Sessions and during live performances of the song "Roses On My Grave".Papa Roach&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Papa does preach&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; Ben Luther was replaced by Robert Delorenzi (guitar) from nearby Vanden High School. Jerry was introduced to the band through his girlfriend, who was a fan. By this time, Papa Roach were practicing everyday in Dave's garage and trying to secure local gigs.In 1994, Papa Roach recorded their first 7 track EP titled Potatoes For Christmas. David Buckner was temporarily replaced by Ryan Brown, as Buckner was spending the year in Seattle studying art. One year later, they recorded a 2 track promo at Sound Farm Studios titled Caca Bonita. By this time Dave Buckner was back. To keep progressing as a band, they replaced Will James, who had become heavily involved in a church summer camp, by Tobin Esperance, because James' absence would limit the band's summer practicing and touring. As Esperance had been with the band as a roadie for a while, the transition was an easy one.In 1997, the band produced their first full-length album, entitled Old Friends from Young Years. Still touring heavily, they supported bands such as Incubus, Powerman 5000, Hed PE, Snot, Far and Static-X.In 1998, they released a 5 track EP titled 5 Tracks Deep. It sold more than 1,000 copies in its first month of release. One year later, they produced another EP, which would end up being their last independent release, titled Let 'Em Know. This was seen to be Papa Roach's best independent effort as a band, highlighting their distinctive sound. Its success caught the attention of Warner Brothers, who financed the production of a 5 track promo/demo CD. The unreleased disc included the songs "Infest", "Last Resort", "Broken Home", "Dead Cell", and "She Loves Me Not" - the first four would later feature on their Infest album, and the last on Lovehatetragedy. In the end, Warner Brothers elected not to sign them, based on a perceived lack of talent presented in their earlier musical efforts. Soon after, Shaddix was contacted by Dreamworks Records offering the band a recording contract. Papa Roach made it into the mainstream on the back of their major label debut album, Infest, and the hit single, "Last Resort".Breakthrough and mainstream successAfter signing with Dreamworks Records in October 1999, they immediately hit the studio to record their debut major label album titled Infest. The album included old songs from their independent releases, these being "Infest", "Last Resort", "Broken Home", "Dead Cell" from the Warner Brothers promo/demo CD; "Revenge In Japanese" as "Revenge" and "Thrown Away" from their 5 Tracks Deep EP; and "Legacy", "Binge", "Snakes", and a softer version of the originally heavier "Tightrope" track from the Let 'Em Know EP; which were re-recorded, and three additional newly written songs: "Between Angels and Insects", "Blood Brothers", and "Never Enough". Infest was released in the United States on April 25, 2000, and sold 30,000 copies in its first week of release. With their debut album released, and the music video for "Last Resort" recorded, they hit the Vans Warped Tour and numerous other large tours.In late 2000, they even toured the United Kingdom, highlighting how quickly their popularity had spread worldwide. In 2001, the band toured Ozzfest, where they performed on the prestigious main stage, on both the United States and United Kingdom tours.After enormous amounts of touring worldwide, most notably in the United States, United Kingdom and Japan, the band hit the studio again to record their second album titled Lovehatetragedy. The album was released in the United States on June 18, 2002, and though it didn't outsell Infest, it managed to chart higher in both the United States and United Kingdom album charts. The album marked their first change in sound.In late 2003, Papa Roach hit the studio again to write and record their third major album, which was tentatively titled Dancing In the Ashes. However, the name was soon to be replaced by Getting Away With Murder. The band worked with well-recognized producer Howard Benson, writing such songs as "Take Me" and "Scars". After completion, the band filmed the video for the title track, "Getting Away With Murder", and went on a small summer club tour to warm-up for the new album and tours to follow. Some long time fans of the band criticized Getting Away With Murder for its softer sound, compared to their previous albums. Regardless of the perceived backlash, Getting Away With Murder outsold Lovehatetragedy, mainly due to the enormous popularity of the album's second single, "Scars". Currently, the album has sold more than 1 million copies and has been certified platinum.In 2005, the band spent a large proportion of the year on tour. This included a full United States and European tour alongside bands such as Slipknot, Dead Poetic, Trust Company, Chronic Future, Skindred, 311 and Unwritten Law.''The Paramour Sessions''On September 12, 2006 Papa Roach released their 4th major-label album The Paramour Sessions. The band chose the title in respect to the recording location, the Paramour Mansion. The band was given the idea of doing an album in a mansion (while they were recording Getting Away With Murder) by Slipknot, who were recording their Vol. 3: (The Subliminal Verses) album in the Houdini Mansion and told the band it was the "only way to make an album". "To Be Loved" was the first single from the album and is currently being used as the theme song for the WWE Monday Night RAW. That album marked a more alternative rock/Pop rock-based sound compared to earlier efforts but still contained the softer ballads akin to Getting Away With Murder. The album debuted at #16 on the Billboard 200 Charts.The band started touring their new album in August 2006, with an American tour followed by one in Europe. On October 2006, Papa Roach toured with bands such as Guns N' Roses, during the Chinese Democracy tour, and Deftones through-out the United States, having major success. They were also the special guest band during the Zippo Hot Tour with Hed Pe and Eyes Set to Kill."Forever" is the 2nd single from The Paramour Sessions and was in heavy rotation across America.On May 23, 2007, more than 4 months after Forever had impacted radio, the band shot the official video for "Forever" in the Los Angeles area, directed by Meiert Avis. Dave Buckner was in the video and had returned at that time. On June 15, 2007 the video made it's official debut on AOL. http://music.aol.com/video/forever/papa-roach/1846159"Time Is Running Out" was announced as the CD's 3rd single in mid/late 2007.Other albums and releasesOn October 10, 2006 a String Quartet tribute album entitled Perfect Murder: Strung Out on Papa Roach was released by Vitamin Records.Vitamin Records&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;The band originally planned to release a compilation of acoustic recordings for their songs, such as "Forever", "Scars", and "Not Coming Home" (all 3 recorded in Scotland). "Not Coming Home" was recorded for KROQ's charity Christmas album, entitled Kevin and Bean's Super Christmas. The acoustic compilation has since been put on hold until the future. In an interview with billboard.com, Jacoby Shaddix, has stated that he doesn't think his fans are quite ready for the acoustic direction.Papa Roach Going Acoustic, Just Not Yet&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;The departure of Dave BucknerOn April 25, 2007 it was announced that drummer Dave Buckner would be sitting out the band's current tour. A statement issued by the group's record label said, "Buckner has taken time off from touring with the band due to personal matters." He was expected to rejoin the group at a later date. Jacoby Shaddix later confirmed in an interview with Launch Radio Networks that Dave had checked himself into rehab, stating "Dave, he went to rehab and went to go clean his act up 'cause he was out of his mind." Unwritten Law drummer, Tony Palermo filled in on drums for touring duties.On January 28, 2008 Jacoby announced on Papa Roach's MySpace that Buckner would officially be parting ways with Papa Roach for good. He states that Dave is still trying to get his life back together. Jacoby also mentioned that Papa Roach is going back to the Paramour Mansion for the next month to begin on their 5th studio album. Tony Palermo will continue drumming with the band for their upcoming album and for their tour in support of the album.Metamorphosis and ToursIn an interview in February 2008 with 99.7 The Blitz, a rock radio station in Columbus, OH, Jacoby Shaddix stated that the band is currently working on their new album, which was to be titled Days of War, Nights of Love, but for different reasons it was renamed Metamorphosis. On April 15, 2008, Papa Roach announced they would be touring as part of Motley Crue's Cruefest, along with Sixx:A.M., Buckcherry and Trapt. The tour is set to begin July 1 in West Palm Beach, Florida.Concert Announcement: Cruefest with Motley Crue, STLtoday.com The release date for the album was confirmed as March 2009 during Cruefest. They also went on tour with Seether and Staind later in the year. Some songs that will be on the album are called "Lifeline","I Almost Told You That I Loved You" and "Change Or Die". They all have been played at concerts recently as well.Music styleIn an interview in February 2008 with 99.7 The Blitz, a rock radio station in Columbus, OH, Jacoby Shaddix stated that the band is currently working on their new album, which was to be titled Days of War, Nights of Love, but for different reasons it was renamed Metamorphosis. On April 15, 2008, Papa Roach announced they would be touring as part of Motley Crue's Cruefest, along with Sixx:A.M., Buckcherry and Trapt. The tour is set to begin July 1 in West Palm Beach, Florida.5 The release date for the album was confirmed as March 2009 during Cruefest. They also went on tour with Seether and Staind later in the year. Some songs that will be on the album are called "Lifeline","I Almost Told You That I Loved You", "Hollywood Whore", and "Change Or Die". They all have been played at concerts recently as well.Frontman Jacoby Shaddix said the following in an interview with the Dallas Music Guide regarding the band no longer using rapping in their music: "...the rapping's gone! I don't feel like rapping. I'm just over that...I just want to be a rocker. It's what I wanted to be when I was a kid".http://www.musicdesktop.com/interviews/19.htm&lt;/ref&gt;Shaddix has added this remark in a recent interview: "We’re a band that tries to walk that line between metal, hardcore, punk rock and pop music, and we do our best at trying to make it all tasteful".Papa Roach : Biography&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;To many fans' surprise, "...To Be Loved" from their most recent album The Paramour Sessions features glimpses of the old nu metal sound, with what many would consider rapping in the beginning and end verses. The lyrics "I'm taking it back to a hardcore level" may mean they're regressing to their nu metal roots. "Roses On My Grave" is the only song featuring orchestral instruments, giving it a different flavour compared to the rest of The Paramour Sessions.Band membersCurrentJacoby Sx – Lead-Vocals, Primary LyricistJerry Horton – Lead-Guitar, Backing VocalsTobin Esperance – Bass Guitar, Piano, Backing Vocals, Primary Composer, Rhythm-Guitar (studio sets only)Tony Palermo - drums, percussionFormerDave Buckner - Drummer from 1993-2008 recording on all of the band's official releases with the exception of 1994's Potatoes for Christmas. According to a report on harddriveradio.com, Buckner left the band due to substance abuse issues that stemmed from his recently collapsed marriage.Former Session MembersAndrew Saturley – Trombonist who was replaced by Jerry Horton in 1993, while the band was still in its initial formation process.Will James – Bassist who featured on the band's first record Potatoes for Christmas.Ryan Brown – Drummer who temporarily filled in for Dave Buckner on the Potatoes for Christmas recording, who was studying art in Seattle.Mike Doherty - Second guitarist during the Lovehatetragedy tour in 2002.DiscographyYearAlbumUSUKLabelUS Sales1997Old Friends From Young Years--Onion Hardcore-2000Infest#5#9Dreamworks Records3x Platinum2002Lovehatetragedy#2#4Dreamworks RecordsGold2004Getting Away with Murder#17#30Geffen RecordsPlatinum2006The Paramour Sessions#16#61Geffen Records400,000+2009''Metamorphosis--Geffen Records-VideographyPapa Roach: Live &amp; Murderous In Chicago (2005)Papa Roach: Live at Rock am Ring (2005)NotesSee alsoFight the SkyExternal linksOfficial siteOfficial Fan Club siteGeffen Records pagePapa Roach Unit: The Next Step For A Real FanCategory:1990s music groups Category:2000s music groups Category:American rock music groups Category:California musical groups Category:Alternative musical groups Category:Musical groups established in 1993 be-x-old:Papa Roach cs:Papa Roach da:Papa Roach de:Papa Roach es:Papa Roach eu:Papa Roach fa:پاپا روچ fr:Papa Roach ko:파파 로치 hr:Papa Roach id:Papa Roach is:Papa Roach it:Papa Roach he:פאפא רוץ' lt:Papa Roach hu:Papa Roach nl:Papa Roach ja:パパ・ローチ no:Papa Roach uz:Papa Roach pl:Papa Roach pt:Papa Roach ru:Papa Roach sk:Papa Roach sr:Papa rouč fi:Papa Roach sv:Papa Roach tr:Papa Roach zh:蟑螂老爹