A metronome is any device that produces a regulated aural, visual or tactile pulse to establish a steady tempo in the performance of music. It is a useful practice tool for musicians that dates back to the early 19th century.EtymologyThe word metronome first appeared in English c.1815 and is Greek in origin:metron = measure, nomos = regulatingHistoryAccording to Lynn Townsend White, Jr., the Andalusian inventor, Abbas Ibn Firnas (810-887), made the earliest attempt at creating some sort of metronome.Lynn Townsend White, Jr. (Spring, 1961). "Eilmer of Malmesbury, an Eleventh Century Aviator: A Case Study of Technological Innovation, Its Context and Tradition", Technology and Culture 2 (2), p. 97-111 100: "Ibn Firnas was a polymath: a physician, a rather bad poet, the first to make glass from stones (quartz), a student of music, and inventor of some sort of metronome."The mechanical metronome was invented by Dietrich Nikolaus Winkel in Amsterdam in 1812. Johann Mälzel copied several of Winkel's construction ideas and received the patent for the portable metronome in 1816. Ludwig van Beethoven was the first notable composer to indicate specific metronome markings in his music, in 1817.UsageMetronomes may be used by musicians when practicing in order to maintain a constant tempo; by adjusting the metronome, facility can be achieved at varying tempi. Even in pieces that do not require a strictly constant tempo (such as in the case of rubato), a metronome "marking" is sometimes given by the composer to give an indication of the general tempo intended, found in the score at the beginning of a piece or movement thereof.Tempo is always measured in beats per minute (BPM); metronomes can be set to variable tempi, usually ranging from 40 to 200 BPM.Types of metronomes  The following samples are generated by a click track, but give a close approximation of the sound of a metronome.    Mechanical metronomesOne common type of metronome is the mechanical metronome which uses an adjustable weight on the end of a pendulum (also known as a double-weighted pendulum) rod to control the tempo: The weight is slid up the pendulum rod to decrease tempo, or down to increase tempo. The pendulum swings back and forth in tempo, while a mechanism inside the metronome produce a clicking sound with each oscillation.Electronic metronomesMost modern metronomes are electronic and use a quartz crystal to maintain accuracy, comparable to those used in wristwatches. The simplest electronic metronomes have a dial or buttons to control the tempo; some also produce tuning notes, usually around the range of A440 (440 hertz). Sophisticated metronomes can produce two or more distinct sounds. Tones can differ in pitch, volume, and/or timbre to demarcate downbeats from other beats, as well as compound and complex time signatures.Many electronic musical keyboards have built-in metronome functions.Software metronomesMetronomes now exist in software form, either as stand alone applications or often in music sequencing and audio multitrack software packages. In recording studio applications, such as film scoring, a software metronome is often used to generate a click track to synchronize musicians.Use of the metronome as an instrumentCriticism of metronome useWhile the metronome is a useful tool for musicians, it does have its limitations. In many cases, the notation of music is only one part of the method of communication between musicians, the other being oral tradition.Ian D. Bent, et al. "Notation." In Grove Music Online. Oxford Music Online, (accessed July 28, 2008). Thus, the metronome markings in a score may not accurately communicate the pulse, swing, or groove of music, which is not necessarily regular.Justin London. "Pulse." In Grove Music Online. Oxford Music Online, (accessed July 28, 2008)A style of performance that is unfailingly regular rhythmically may be criticized as being "metronomic." Many notable composers, including Felix Mendelssohn, Richard Wagner, Giuseppe Verdi and Johannes Brahms, have weighed in on the use of the metronome: Quotes from Beethoven, Berlioz, and Liszt are referenced here. |Ludvig van Beethoven |Hector Berlioz |Franz LisztFrom a performance perspective: |Brinton Smith, in a thesis of a recording of Emanuel Feuermann |Pedro BatistaReferencesFurther readingMetronome Techniques, by Frederick Franz, New Haven, Connecticut, 1988See alsoRhythmPoème Symphonique for 100 metronomesBeatCategory:Pendulums Category:Rhythmcs:Metronom da:Metronom de:Metronom et:Metronoom es:Metrónomo fr:Métronome ko:메트로놈 it:Metronomo he:מטרונום ka:მეტრონომი nl:Metronoom nds-nl:Metronoom ja:メトロノーム no:Metronom nn:Metronom pl:Metronom pt:Metrônomo ru:Метроном simple:Metronome sk:Metronóm sl:Metronom sr:Метроном fi:Metronomi sv:Metronom tr:Metronom uk:Метроном zh-yue:拍節機 zh:節拍器