 The Rough-toothed Dolphin (Steno bredanensis) is a fairly large dolphin that can be found in deep warm and tropical waters around the world.Naming and discoveryThe species was first described by Georges Cuvier in 1823. The genus name Steno, of which this species is the only member, comes from the Greek for 'narrow', referring to the animal's beak - which is a diagnostic characteristic of the species. The specific name honours van Breda, who studied Cuvier's writings. The common name refers to the thin lines of enamel that run vertically down the dolphin's teeth.Physical descriptionThe characteristic feature of this dolphin is its conical head and slender nose. The flippers are set back further along the body than in other similar dolphins (at sea this dolphin may be confused with the Spinner, Spotted and Bottlenose Dolphins.) The dorsal fin is pronounced.The lips, throat and belly are pinky-white. The flanks are a light grey and the back and dorsal fin a much darker grey. The dolphin grows up to about 2.5m in length and weighs about 150kg.The species is social. Group sizes are commonly as large as fifty and groups as large as 100 have been reported. The dolphin has not been observed to bow-ride but does "skim" - swim with their heads and chin above the surface of the water.Population and distributionThe distribution and population of the Rough-toothed Dolphin is poorly understood. Most of the research activity concerning the dolphin has been directed in the eastern Pacific Ocean where a population estimate of 150,000 has been obtained. There have been numerous reports from other warm seas, usually as a result of by-catches. Populations of unknown sizes exist in the Mediterranean and Caribbean Seas and the Atlantic, Indian and Pacific Oceans. Live sightings are almost universally made far off-shore beyond the continental shelf.ConservationThe population is not believed to be threatened by human activities. A small number of individuals have been harpooned by Japanese whalers. Others have been caught in seine nets by trawlers fishing for tuna.References Database entry includes justification for why this species is listed as data deficientSteno bredanensis pp. 269-280, by J Maigret in Handbuch der Säugetiere Europas. Band 6: Meeressäuger Teil 1A: Wale und Delphine 1 Niethammer J, Krapp F, (Eds.) (1995).External linksWhale &amp; Dolphin Conservation Society (WDCS)Rough-toothed Dolphins in HawaiiCategory:Oceanic dolphins Category:Mammals of Europe Category:Mammals of Africa Category:Mammals of Asia Category:Mammals of Pakistan Category:Fauna of Southeast Asia Category:Fauna of Thailand Category:Cetaceans of Australia Category:Megafauna da:Rutandet delfin de:Rauzahndelfin es:Steno bredanensis eo:Steno fr:Steno bredanensis it:Steno bredanensis he:סטנו תלום שן nl:Snaveldolfijn ja:シワハイルカ pl:Delfin długonosy pt:Golfinho-de-dentes-rugosos simple:Rough-toothed Dolphin