  The term acquis communautaire, or (EU) acquis (), is used in European Union law to refer to the total body of EU law accumulated thus far. The term is French: acquis means "that which has been acquired", and communautaire means "of the community".Chapters of the acquisDuring the process of the enlargement of the European Union, the acquis was divided into 31 chapters for the purpose of negotiation between the EU and the candidate member states for the fifth enlargement (the ten that joined in 2004 plus Romania and Bulgaria which joined in 2007). These chapters were:For the negotiations with Croatia and Turkey, the acquis was split up into 35 chapters instead, with the purpose of better balancing between the chapters: dividing the most difficult ones into separate chapters for easier negotiation, uniting some easier chapters, moving some policies between chapters, as well as renaming a few of them in the process:Correspondence between chapters of the 5th and the 6th Enlargement:5th Enlargement6th Enlargement1. Free movement of goods1. Free movement of goods&nbsp;7. Intellectual property law&nbsp;2. Free movement of persons2. Freedom of movement for workers&nbsp;3. Right of establishment and freedom to provide services&nbsp;3. Freedom to provide services3. Right of establishment and freedom to provide services&nbsp;9. Financial services&nbsp;4. Free movement of capital4. Free movement of capital&nbsp;5. Company law6. Company law&nbsp;6. Competition policy8. Competition policy&nbsp;5. Public procurement&nbsp;7. Agriculture11. Agriculture and rural development&nbsp;12. Food safety, veterinary and phytosanitary policy&nbsp;8. Fisheries13. Fisheries&nbsp;9. Transport policy14. Transport policy&nbsp;21. Trans-European networks (one half of it)&nbsp;10. Taxation16. Taxation&nbsp;11. Economic and Monetary Union17. Economic and monetary policy&nbsp;12. Statistics18. Statistics&nbsp;13. Social policy and employment14. Energy15. Energy&nbsp;21. Trans-European networks (one half of it)&nbsp;15. Industrial policy20. Enterprise and industrial policy&nbsp;16. Small and medium-sized enterprises&nbsp;17. Science and research25. Science and research&nbsp;18. Education and training26. Education and culture10. Information society and media&nbsp;19. Telecommunication and information technologies&nbsp;20. Culture and audio-visual policy&nbsp;21. Regional policy and coordination of structural instruments22. Regional policy and coordination of structural instruments&nbsp;22. Environment27. Environment&nbsp;23. Consumer and health protection28. Consumer and health protection&nbsp;24. Cooperation in the field of Justice and Home Affairs23. Judiciary and fundamental rights&nbsp;24. Justice, freedom and security&nbsp;25. Customs union29. Customs union&nbsp;26. External relations30. External relations&nbsp;27. Common Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP)31. Foreign, security and defence policy&nbsp;28. Financial control32. Financial control&nbsp;29. Financial and budgetary provisions33. Financial and budgetary provisions&nbsp;30. Institutions34. Institutions&nbsp;31. Others35. Other issues&nbsp;Such negotiations usually involved agreeing transitional periods before new member states needed to implement the laws of the European Union fully and before they and their citizens acquired full rights under the acquis.Other usesThe term is also used to describe laws adopted under the Schengen treaty, prior to its integration into the European Union legal order by the Treaty of Amsterdam, in which case one speaks of the Schengen acquis.The term acquis has been borrowed by the World Trade Organization Appellate Body, in the case Japan - Taxes on Alcoholic Beverages, to refer to the accumulation of General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) and WTO law ("acquis gattien"), though this usage is not well established.It has been used to describe the achievements of the Council of Europe (an international organisation unconnected with the European Union):Section 12, Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe Resolution 1290The Council of Europe’s acquis in standard setting activities in the fields of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental human rights and freedoms should be considered as milestones towards the great European political project, and the European Court of Human Rights should be recognised as the pre-eminent judicial pillar of any future architecture.It has also been applied to the body of "principles, norms and commitments" of the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE):Intervention by Ambassador Aleksi Härkönen, Permanent Representative of Finland to the OSCE, Annual Security Review Conference. Another question under debate has been how the Partners and others could implement the OSCE acquis, in other words its principles, norms and commitments on a voluntary basis.The OECD introduced the concept of the OECD Acquis in its "Strategy for enlargement and outreach", May 2004.ReferencesExternal linksEUR-Lex: European Union Law.JRC-Acquis, Aligned multilingual parallel corpus: 23,000 Acquis-related texts per language, available in 22 languages. Total size: 1 Billion words.Translation Memory of the EU-Acquis: Up to 1 Million translation units each, for 231 language pairs.Category:European Union law Category:French words and phrasescs:Acquis communautaire de:Acquis communautaire es:Acervo comunitario fr:Acquis communautaire hr:Pravna stečevina Europske unije it:Acquis comunitario hu:Acquis communautaire nl:Gemeenschapsrecht ja:アキ・コミュノテール pl:Acquis communautaire pt:Adquirido comunitário tr:Avrupa Birliği müktesebatı uk:Доробок спільноти