   Bukkake (Japanese: ブッカケ)  (1: IPA: /bu:̜ˈkake̞/ 2: IPA: /bʊˈkæke/) is a sexual practice that features a person being ejaculated on by multiple men.    The term has been used more recently, courtesy of the explosive growth in pornographic films, more expansively to include one or more subjects - either male or female, and ejaculation on any part of the body (not just on the face) or into various types of containers for the purpose of ingestion. (See Gokkun.)EtymologyBukkake is the noun form of the Japanese verb bukkakeru (打っ掛ける, to dash water), and means simply "splash". The compound verb can be decomposed into two verbs: butsu (ぶつ) and kakeru (掛ける). Butsu literally means to hit, but in this usage it appears to be an intensive prefix as in buttamageru (ぶったまげる, "completely astonished") or butchigiri (ぶっちぎり, "overwhelming win"). Kakeru in this context means to shower or pour. The word bukkake is often used in Japanese to describe pouring out water with sufficient momentum to cause splashing or spilling. Indeed, bukkake is used in Japan to describe a type of dish where the toppings are poured on top of noodles, as in bukkake-udon and bukkake-soba.A significant factor in the development of bukkake as a pornographic form was the mandatory censorship of genitalia in Japan. Since the directors could not show penetration they sought other ways to depict sex acts without violating Japanese law. Semen was not required to be censored, thus creating a loophole for harder sex scenes.HistoryThe first known recorded and publicly released act of bukkake in Japanese pornography was in the movie  starring Matsuoka Aiko, released in December 1986. The act being previously known simply as SociologySome feminists have described bukkake as a fetish culture beyond sex. Others describe bukkake as symbolic group rape, and its primary purpose as the humiliation, degradation and objectification of women,  and that the use of ejaculation is part of a humiliation ritual and generally does not involve any of the female characters experiencing orgasm.See alsoFacialGokkunOrgyPornography in JapanSnowballingReferencesExternal linksDictionary of Japan Sex&quot;Pornography, Rape and Sex Crimes in Japan&quot;, by Milton Diamond, Ayako Uchiyama. International Journal of Law and Psychiatry 22(1): 1–22. 1999.Category:Bukkake Category:Group sex Category:Japanese pornography Category:Japanese sex terms Category:Japanese words and phrases Category:Sexual acts Category:Sexuality in Japan Category:Sexuality and societyca:Bukkake cs:Bukkake da:Bukkake de:Bukkake es:Bukkake eo:Bukako fa:بوکاکی fr:Bukkake id:Bukkake it:Bukkake ja:顔射#.E3.81.B6.E3.81.A3.E3.81.8B.E3.81.91 ka:ბუკაკე nl:Bukkake no:Bukkake pl:Bukkake pt:Bukkake ru:Буккакэ simple:Bukkake fi:Bukkake sv:Bukkake zh:颜射