 The flag of El Salvador was adopted on May 17, 1912. It is based on the flag of the United Provinces of Central America, inspired in the Argentine flag, and was initially adopted in 1822, abandoned in 1865, reinstated in 1912, and last confirmed in 1972. Just like most Central American countries, the flag of El Salvador is blue and white to honor the Central American federation. The flag of Central America was used as the national flag until 1865,when a flag based on the Stars and Stripes was adopted, with blue and white stripes and a red canton containing 9 stars. In 1912 the original design was readopted, with the arms of El Salvador in the center. The coat of arms is similar to those of the United Provinces of Central America. The emblem is based on the Masonic triangle representing equality and depicts the 5 original provinces with 5 volcanoes. and the glowing freedom cap representing the first Central American country that rang the bells of liberty the remaining Central American countries follow soon after. Around the triangle are 5 national flags and a wreath, tied in the national colors. Above the volcanoes is the Cap of Liberty. The motto of Central America- Dios, Union, Libertad meaning "God, Union, Liberty" is on the lower gold scroll. The entire arms is surrounded by the country's name in gold letters- Republica de El Salvador en la America Central, "Republic of El Salvador in Central America".There are two versions of the flag, one containing the National Coat of Arms and the other the words "DIOS UNION LIBERTAD" (). The one bearing the Coat of Arms is used by the government or state organizations. The other version is used for civil purposes. Both flags have a 3:5 aspect ratio.From 1865 to 1912, a different flag was in use, based on the flag of the United States, with a field of alternating blue and white stripes and a red canton containing white stars.  External links Category:National symbols of El Salvador El Salvadorbs:Zastava Salvadora cs:Salvadorská vlajka cy:Baner El Salvador de:Flagge El Salvadors el:Σημαία του Ελ Σαλβαδόρ es:Bandera de El Salvador fr:Drapeau du Salvador ko:엘살바도르의 국기 hr:Zastava Salvadora bpy:এল সালভাদরর ফিরালহান id:Bendera El Salvador it:Bandiera di El Salvador he:דגל אל סלוודור lt:Salvadoro vėliava hu:Salvador zászlaja nl:Vlag van El Salvador ja:エルサルバドルの国旗 no:El Salvadors flagg pl:Flaga Salwadoru pt:Bandeira de El Salvador ru:Флаг Сальвадора sq:Flamuri i Salvadorit sk:Vlajka Salvádoru sr:Застава Ел Салвадора sh:Zastava Salvadora fi:El Salvadorin lippu sv:El Salvadors flagga th:ธงชาติเอลซัลวาดอร์ zh:薩爾瓦多國旗