 The Codex Alimentarius (Latin for "food code" or "food book") is a collection of internationally recognized standards, codes of practice, guidelines and other recommendations relating to foods, food production and food safety. These texts are developed and maintained by the Codex Alimentarius Commission, a body that was established in 1963 by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) and the World Health Organization (WHO). The Commission's main aims are stated as being to protect the health of consumers and ensure fair practices in the international food trade. The Codex Alimentarius is recognized by the World Trade Organization as an international reference point for the resolution of disputes concerning food safety and consumer protection.Agreement on the Application of Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures World Trade Organization. Accessed 3 September, 2008.Understanding the Codex Alimentarius Preface. Third Edition. Published in 2006 by the World Health Organization and the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations. Accessed 3 September, 2008..ScopeThe Codex Alimentarius officially covers all foods, whether processed, semi-processed or raw, but far more attention has been given to foods that are marketed directly to consumers. In addition to standards for specific foods, the Codex Alimentarius contains general standards covering matters such as food labeling, food hygiene, food additives and pesticide residues, and procedures for assessing the safety of foods derived from modern biotechnology. It also contains guidelines for the management of official (i.e., governmental) import and export inspection and certification systems for foods.The Codex Alimentarius is published in Arabic, Chinese, English, French and Spanish. Not all texts are available in all languages.General textsFood labelling (general standard, guidelines on nutrition labelling, guidelines on labelling claims)Food additives (general standard including authorized uses, specifications for food grade chemicals)Contaminants in foods (general standard, tolerances for specific contaminants including radionuclides, aflatoxins and other mycotoxins)Pesticide and veterinary chemical residues in foods (maximum residue limits)Risk assessment procedures for determining the safety of foods derived from biotechnology (DNA-modified plants, DNA-modified micro-organisms, allergens)Food hygiene (general principles, codes of hygienic practice in specific industries or food handling establishments, guidelines for the use of the Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point or “HACCP” system)Methods of analysis and samplingSpecific standardsMeat products (fresh, frozen, processed meats and poultry)Fish and fishery products (marine, fresh water and aquaculture)Milk and milk productsFoods for special dietary uses (including infant formulae and baby foods)Fresh and processed vegetables, fruits, and fruit juicesCereals and derived products, dried legumesFats, oils and derived products such as margarineMiscellaneous food products (chocolate, sugar, honey, mineral water)ControversyThe controversy over the Codex Alimentarius relates to a perception that it is a mandatory standard for food - including vitamin and mineral supplement - safety. Supporters of the Codex Alimentarius say that it is a voluntary reference standard for food and that there is no obligation on countries to adopt Codex standards as a member of either Codex or any other international trade organization. From the point of view of its opponents, however, one of the main causes of concern is that the Codex Alimentarius is recognized by the World Trade Organization as an international reference standard for the resolution of disputes concerning food safety and consumer protection.Agreement on the Application of Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures World Trade Organization. Accessed 3 September, 2008.Understanding the Codex Alimentarius Preface. Third Edition. Published in 2006 by the World Health Organization and the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations. Accessed 3 September, 2008.. However, the use of Codex Alimentarius during international disputes does not exclude the use of other references or scientific studies as evidence of food safety and consumer protection. Nevertheless, although countries are not excluded from using other references or scientific studies as evidence of food safety and consumer protection, opponents claim that developing countries in particular are unlikely to have alternative references. Much of the controversy relates to the way in which the Codex Alimentarius treats vitamin and mineral food supplements. Some countries categorize vitamin and mineral supplements as foods. Others, however, categorize them as drugs. Meanwhile, some countries, such as Canada, have created separate non-drug categories for these products. Opponents of the Codex Alimentarius Commission claim that it is unduly influenced by pharmaceutical companies, and that its guidelines for vitamin and mineral food supplements are unnecessarily restrictive.Also, it is reported that in 1996 the German delegation put forward a proposal that no herb, vitamin or mineral should be sold for preventive or therapeutic reasons, and that supplements should be reclassified as drugs. 'Health supplements: R.I.P.'. The Guardian newspaper, UK. Published 14 September 2002. Accessed 2 August 2008 The proposal was agreed, but protests halted its implementation.'Health supplements: R.I.P.'. The Guardian newspaper, UK. Published 14 September 2002. Accessed 2 August 2008 The 28th Session of the Codex Alimentarius Commission was subsequently held July 4 - July 9, 2005. Codex Alimentarius Commission 28th Session, FAO Headquarters, Rome, Italy, 4-9 July, 2005. Official report. Among the many issues discussed were the "Guidelines for Vitamin and Mineral Food Supplements"Codex Guidelines for Vitamin and Mineral Food Supplements, which were adopted during the meeting as a voluntary reference standard. This text has been the subject of considerable controversy, in part because many member countries may choose to regulate dietary supplements as therapeutic goods or pharmaceuticals or by some other category. The text does not seek to ban supplements, but to subject them to labeling and packaging requirements and to ensure that safety and efficacy are considered when determining the ingredient source.The Guidelines have attracted concern from both consumers and industry due to a perception that there may be restrictions on vitamins and minerals as dietary supplements. The health freedom movement has pointed to greater concerns related to restrictions on dietary supplement ingredients in Europe 'Vitamin controls backed by Europe'. BBC News. Published 12 July 2005. Accessed 27 December 2007 via the European Union's Food Supplements Directive European Union Food Supplements Directive (which utilizes approved lists of ingredients and ingredient forms) and potentially restrictive dosage limits to be based on a Codex model via the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) and World Health Organization (WHO) Nutrient Risk Assessment Project. FAO/WHO Nutrient Risk Assessment ProjectTexas Republican Rep. Ron Paul meanwhile has said that the Central American Free Trade Agreement "increases the possibility that Codex regulations will be imposed on the American public." 'The vitamin police', by ALAN BOCK, Sr. editorial writer, The Orange County Register. Published 14 August 2005. Accessed 2 September 2008.See alsoCodex Alimentarius AustriacusFood Chemicals CodexReferencesExternal linksCodex Alimentarius Commission - official website'Understanding the Codex Alimentarius' Published in 2005 by the World Health Organization and the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations. Accessed 4 May 2007.&quot;Authority and Legitimacy in Global Governance: Deliberation, Institutional Differentiation, and the Codex Alimentarius&quot; Michael Livermore, 81 NYU Law Review 766 (2006)Category:Food safety Category:Food science Category:International law Category:Pharmaceuticals policyde:Codex Alimentarius es:Codex Alimentarius fr:Codex alimentarius gl:Codex alimentarius it:Codex Alimentarius nl:Codex Alimentarius ja:国際食品規格委員会 pl:Codex Alimentarius uk:Кодекс Аліментаріус