Southern ItalyRegional statisticsLargest cityNaplesRegions of ItalyApulia, Abruzzo, Basilicata, Calabria, Campania, and Molise. Sicily is sometimes included.Area&nbsp;- Total47,504 mi² (123,036 km²)Languages&nbsp;Italian]] (official); Neapolitan, Sicilian, and Italian dialects; minorities of Griko and pockets of Franco-Provençal, Occitan and Arbëresh.Density]]&nbsp;20,755,621Demo-Geodemo. - Maps, Population, Demography of ISTAT - Italian Institute of Statistics&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;168.6 people/km²GDP (nom.)&nbsp;- Total&nbsp;&nbsp;- Per capitaRelative prices and exchange rates]$0.369 trillion (17h)$17,924 (26th)GDP]] (PPP)'''&nbsp;- Total&nbsp;&nbsp;- Per capita2003 estimates$0.365 trillion (24th)$17,724 (32th)Southern Italy (Italian: Italia Meridionale), or Mezzogiorno, generally refers to the southern portion of the continental Italian peninsula historically forming the Kingdom of Naples. It encompasses the modern regions of Basilicata, Campania, Calabria, Apulia and Molise, which lie in Italy's south, and Abruzzo which is located in central Italy. Some would also include the most southern parts of Lazio (Sora, Cassino and Gaeta districts), which historically were part of the southern kingdom.Sicily is often included due to its historical political and cultural connections. Nonetheless, the Istituto Nazionale di Statistica (ISTAT) uses the term Southern Italy but excludes Sicily, which it groups with Sardinia as Insular Italy; this is the same grouping used for European parliament elections.The term Mezzogiorno (Midday) first came into use in the 18th century and is an Italian rendition of meridies (Latin for 'south', because of the sun's position at midday in the northern hemisphere). "Mezzogiorno" was popularised by Giuseppe Garibaldi and the term came into vogue after Italy's unification. It was sometimes associated with notions of poverty, illiteracy, and crime: stereotypes of the South that often persist to this day.Darkest Italy: The Nation and Stereotypes of the Mezzogiorno, 1860-1900 (Hardcover) by John Dickie Category: Italy - History ISBN 9780312221683 ISBN10: 0312221681 Published: Palgrave Macmillan Publish Date: 1999-11-01 Pages: 209GeographySouthern Italy forms the lower "boot" of the Italian peninsula, containing the ankle (Abruzzo and Molise and southern Lazio), the toe (Calabria), and the heel (Apulia). Separating the two is the Gulf of Taranto, named after the city of Taranto, which sits at the angle between the heel and the boot itself. It is an arm of the Ionian Sea. The rest of the southern third of the Italian peninsula is studded with smaller gulfs and inlets.On the eastern coast is the Adriatic Sea, leading into the rest of the Mediterranean through the Strait of Otranto (named after the largest city on the tip of the heel). On the Adriatic, south of the "spur" of the boot, the peninsula of Monte Gargano (Policastro), the Gulf of Salerno, the Gulf of Naples, and the Gulf of Gaeta are each named after a large coastal city. Along the northern coast of the Salernitan gulf, on the south of the Sorrentine peninsula, runs the famous Amalfi Coast. Off the tip of the peninsula there is the world famous isle of Capri.The climate is classic Mediterranean (Köppen climate classification Csa), except at the highest elevations (Dsa, Dsb) and the semi-arid eastern stretches in Apulia, along the Ionian Sea in Calabria, and the southern stretches of Sicily (BSw).The largest city of Southern Italy is Naples, a title it has historically maintained for centuries. Bari, Taranto, Reggio Calabria, Foggia and Salerno are the next largest cities in the area. Palermo would be the second largest city if one includes Sicily as part of southern Italy.History Ever since the Greeks colonised Magna Graecia in the eighth and seventh centuries BC, the south of Italy has, in many respects, followed a distinct history from the north. After Pyrrhus of Epirus failed in his attempt to stop the spread of Roman hegemony in 282 BC, the south fell under Roman domination and remained in such a position well into the barbarian invasions (the Gladiator War is a notable suspension of imperial control). It was held by the Byzantine Empire after the fall of Rome in the West and even the Lombards failed to consolidate it, though the centre of the south was theirs from Zotto's conquest in the final quarter of the 6th century. Amalfi, an independent republic from the 7th century until 1075, and to a lesser extent Gaeta, Molfetta, and Trani, rivalled other Italian maritime republics in their domestic prosperity and maritime importance.in 1154. The borders remained virtually unchanged for the next 700 years.]]From then to the Norman conquest of the 11th century, the south of the peninsula was constantly plunged into wars between Greek, Lombard, and the Caliphate. The Norman conquest of southern Italy completely subjugated the Lombard principalities, and overwhelmed the Byzantines from all but Naples, which ultimately gave in to Roger II in 1127. He raised the south to kingdom status in 1130, calling it the Kingdom of Sicily. The Normans retained harmonious control of their territory, and ran the kingdom of Sicily efficiently. However, it lasted only 64 years before the Holy Roman Emperors long-held designs on the region came to fruition. The Hohenstaufen rule ended in defeat, but the conquering French of Charles of Anjou were themselves forcibly pushed out in the event immortalized as the Sicilian Vespers. Hereafter, until the union in Spain, the kingdom was split between the principalities of Naples on the mainland and of Sicily over the island. The Aragonese rule left its impression on Italy and the Renaissance through such figures as Alfonso the Magnanimous and the Borgia clan. With the unification of the crowns of Castile and Aragon in the late 15th century, southern Italy and Sicily ceased to have a local monarch and were ruled by viceroys appointed by the Spanish crown.The region remained a part of Spain until the War of the Spanish Succession, when Duke Victor Amadeus II of Sardinia took Sicily. It was soon exchanged with Austria for Sardinia. It became an independent kingdom for Charles of Bourbon and experienced a period of enlightenment with a local, flourishing royal court. In 1798 the French revolutionaries captured southern Italy and created the short-lived Parthenopaean Republic. Eventually, France created the Kingdom of Naples for the benefit of Napoleon's marshal Joachim Murat. An object of irredentism and the Risorgimento, the land was conquered by Giuseppe Garibaldi and the Redshirts in 1861 and, with the north, formed the modern state of Italy.Garibaldi’s Redshirts were supported by nearly all southern Italians, who wanted the ideals of Unification to improve their still feudal regions. However, to those supporting the Bourbons the "northern regime" of Victor Emanuel II was "a hostile invasion which looted the treasury of the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies, devastated the heavily protected local industries, and reduced Naples from the fourth largest city in Europe and the capital of a kingdom to a provincial town".Southern Italy at the Millennium: The Outlook for Southern Italy in the Year 2000, by Clark N. EllisThe transition to a united Kingdom of Italy was not smooth for the South. The Southern economy was much more agrarian and feudal than the industrial northern economy (still Salerno, "the Manchester of the two Sicilies", could count in 1877 something like 10000 textile workers, more than twice the textile labour of widely-known productive centers like Turin). Poverty and organized crime, though were persistent problems in Southern Italy as well. Because of this, the South experienced great economic difficulties resulting in massive emigration leading to a worldwide Southern Italian diaspora. Many natives also relocated to the industrial cities in northern Italy, such as Genoa, Milan and Turin. A relative process of industrialization has developed in some areas of the "Mezzogiorno" after WWII.Today, the South remains considerably less economically developed than the North, which enjoyed an "economic miracle" in the fifties and sixties. Some Southern Italian secession movements have developed, but have gained little, if any, significant influence.North-South Divide]] Although in recent history southern Italy has been less affluent than the North, in the past (mainly before the Renaissance) southern Italy was often a prosperous and advanced area, culturally and economically more wealthy than northern or central Italy, and a leader in European cultural and political affairs.The Norman Kingdom of Sicily was prosperous and politically powerful, becoming one of the wealthiest states in all of Europe.&lt;/ref&gt; In the 11th and 12th centuries, Sicily and the Kingdom of Naples played a major role in European affairs and exhibited many signs of prosperity. Some historians say, however, that by the middle of the 13th century, due to fiscal policies that prevented the growth of a strong merchant class, the region became economically backward compared to the northern Italian states.Benedetto Croce, History of the Kingdom of Naples, 1970. Unlike the rest of Italy, which experienced the rise of many small, independent and prosperous city states, all enterprise in the comparatively large kingdom centred on the capital city of Naples. The outlying areas, cursed with generally poor agricultural conditions, fell further behind. Sicily's trade fell primarily under Catalan control and by the 14th C. finances of the kingdom fell primarily into Tuscan hands. In spite of economic repression, Southern Italy did experience periods of cultural flowering. With the Spanish conquest, however, the kingdom continued to be repressed and exploited by foreign rule until the late 18th century and even when Bourbon rule meant a native court and a time of enlightenment for some sectors of the society.According to some historians, during the time of the Bourbons the area around Naples became highly productive. It was the first place in all of Italy to build a railway and the local manufacturing base was growing. Following the unification with the rest of Italian peninsula in 1861, factory technology (which the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies had gained from the British) was taken away to Piemonte, Lombardy and Liguria. The kingdom of the Two Sicilies had 80 million ducats taken from the banks as a contribution to the new Italian treasury, while other former states in the Italian unification were forced to pay far less.With Italian unification southern Italy (mainly because of the huge demographic increase in population due to the improved sanitary conditions done by the Savoia regime) suffered mass emigration, especially between 1892 and 1921.Dennis Mack Smith (1997). Modern Italy; A Political History. Ann Arbor: The University of Michigan Press. ISBN 0472108956, pp. 209-210. Corruption was such a large problem that Giovanni Giolitti admitted that there were places "where the law does not operate at all".(Smith (1997), pp. 199.) One study released in 1910 examined tax rates in north, central and southern Italy indicated that northern Italy with 48% of the nation's wealth paid 40% of the nation's taxes, while the south with 27% of the nation's wealth paid 32% of the nation's taxes.(Smith (1997), pp. 211.) There were also several natural disasters (earthquakes and landslides) during this period, often killing hundreds of people with each disaster. Giolitti's poor response to a major earthquake in Messina in 1908 was blamed for the high number of deaths. The management of the aftermath of the Messina earthquake infuriated southern Italians who claimed that Giolitti favoured the rich north over them.With the introduction of Italian Fascism, the government of Benito Mussolini succeeded in defeating nearly all the illicit crime organisations, which had risen because of the lack of governmental control since Spanish times. Mussolini and the Fascists also made a genuine attempt to bring Italy forward as a nation and even began developing some southern and central areas. Fascist policy was toward the creation of an Italian empire and southern Italian ports were the "base" for all the commerce toward the colonies. This was a moment when "Italianism" seemed a reality to some Southerners, instead of medieval regionalism: Naples enjoyed an urbanization rebirth mainly with the King Victor Emmanuel III, who was born there.During the 1950s, the regional policy the Cassa per il Mezzogiorno was set up to help raise the living standards in the South to those of the North. The Cassa aimed to do this in two ways: by land reforms creating 120,000 new small farms, and through the "Growth Pole Strategy" whereby 60% of all government investment would go to the South, thus boosting the Southern economy by attracting new capital, stimulating local firms, and providing employment. As a result the South became increasingly subsidized and dependent, incapable of generating growth itself.Today, in spite of increased affluence and a much improved economy, the regional disparities persist. Southern Italy continues to be the least prosperous area of Italy. Problems continue to include corruption, organized crime and relatively high unemploymentT. Astarita, Between Salt Water and Holy Water: A History of Southern Italy, 2005. Southern Italy includes 37% of Italy's population, occupies 40% of its land area, but only produces 24% of its gross domestic product. This does not, however, include the large underground informal economy, reported to be as high as 30% of GDP. If the southern Italian economy of some regions (i.e. Campania and Apulia) were calculated with the informal economy (economia sommersa), the GDP would be similar to the one of central Italy.After being suppressed during the 1920s and 1930s, the organised crime networks were "set free" by the United States who claimed to think they were genuine "anti-fascist movements" and they grew to a level they had never done before; since this time, as the majority of Italy's political groups have been leftist and completely unable to control corruption, or on the other hand the political groups were actively involved with corruption, it has remained today, mostly visibly in the form of a landfill management problem.Even though the standard of living is still below that of northern and central Italy, there are districts with substantial economic production. On the whole, Southern Italy's per capita income has improved to the point where it is nearing the European Union median.Culture]] The regions of Southern Italy were exposed to some different historical influences than the rest of the peninsula, starting most notably with Greek colonization. Greek influence in the South was dominant until Latinization was completed by the time of the Roman Principate. Greek influences returned by the late Roman Empire, especially following the reconquests of Justinian and the Byzantine Empire.Sicily, a cultural crossroads throughout the Middle Ages, was captured by Muslims and turned into an Emirate for a period, and via Sicily elements of progressive Islamic culture, architecture and science were introduced to Italy and Europe. The rest of the mainland was subject to a struggle of power among the Byzantines, Lombards, and Franks. In addition, the Venetians established outposts as trade with Byzantium and the Near East increased.Until the Norman conquests of the 11th and 12th centuries much of the South followed Eastern rite (Greek) Christianity. The Normans and other northern rulers of the Middle Ages significantly impacted the architecture, religion and high culture of the region. Later, Southern Italy was subjected to rule by the new European nation states, first Aragon, then Spain and Austria. The Spanish had a major impact on the culture of the South, having ruled it for over three centuries.In recent years, Southern Italy has experienced a revival of its traditions and music, such as Neapolitan song and the Tarantella.See alsoItalian NUTS level 1 regionsCentral ItalyInsular ItalyNorthern ItalyReferencesCategory:Geography of Italy Category:Italian societyde:Süditalien es:Mezzogiorno fr:Mezzogiorno id:Mezzogiorno it:Mezzogiorno he:המצוג'ורנו la:Italia meridiana lt:Pietų Italija hu:Dél-Olaszország nl:Mezzogiorno ja:南イタリア nn:Mezzogiorno pl:Mezzogiorno pt:Mezzogiorno ru:Южная Италия scn:Italia miridiunali sh:Južna Italija sv:Mezzogiorno zh:意大利南部