 | birthplace = Hartford, Connecticut, United States | deathdate = | deathplace = | occupation = Novelist | nationality = | period = | genre = Fantasy, Romance, Young Adult | subject = | movement = | influences = Orson Scott Card, Jane Austen, William Shakespeare, Maeve Binchy, Brontë sisters, Daphne du Maurier, L. M. Montgomery, Louisa May Alcott, Eva Ibbotson, William Goldman, Douglas Adams, Janet Evanovich | influenced = | signature = | website = http://www.stepheniemeyer.com/ Stephenie Morgan Meyer (born December 24, 1973) is an American author. She is the author of the popular books The Host and Twilight, along with Twilight's sequels New Moon, Eclipse, and the recently released Breaking Dawn. A film adaptation of Twilight will be released on November 21, 2008. She has also written a partial draft of Midnight Sun, a companion novel in the series. However, Meyer has postponed writing this book after excerpts of it were illegally leaked on the Internet. Personal historyStephenie Meyer was born in Hartford, Connecticut to Stephen and Candy Morgan. She is named after her father. She grew up in Phoenix, Arizona with a large family. She has five siblings: Seth, Emily, Jacob, Paul,and Heidi. She attended Chaparral High School in Scottsdale, AZ. Meyer attended Brigham Young University in Provo, Utah, where she received a B.A. in English in 1995. She met her husband Christiaan, nicknamed "Pancho", when she was growing up in Arizona, and married him in 1994. Together they have three sons, Gabe, Seth, and Eli. Meyer is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.Meyer says that the idea for Twilight came to her in a dream on June 2, 2003 about a human girl and a vampire, who was in love with her but thirsted for her blood. Based on this dream, Meyer wrote the transcript of what is now Chapter 13 of the book. She had not written anything much before the dream, but in a matter of three months her first novel was finished.Time Magazine Interview with Stephenie Meyer After writing and editing the novel, she signed a three-book deal with Little, Brown and Company for $750,000.The sequel to Twilight, New Moon, had an unintentional staggered release all over North America, beginning in early August 2006. Stephenie Meyer initially wrote an alternative sequel to Twilight, called Forever Dawn, which she then used as an outline for the remainder of the series. She has stated that the novel will never be published, as it doesn't fall into the genre of young adult.StephenieMeyer.com | Twilight Series | Twilight FAQ The third book in the series, Eclipse, was released on August 7, 2007. The fourth book, Breaking Dawn, was released on August 2, 2008 in the United States and Canada and on August 4, 2008 outside of North America. Meyer revealed that Breaking Dawn will be the last book written from Bella Swan's perspective.StephenieMeyer.com | Twilight Series | Breaking Dawn Meyer has also stated that her other novel, Midnight Sun, will be more of a companion piece to the series than a genuine sequel, as it will describe Twilight from the view of Edward Cullen.StephenieMeyer.com | Twilight Series | Midnight Sun A rough first chapter of Midnight Sun was posted on Meyer's website, though she stated that it would be edited and otherwise changed before being released as part of the novel.StephenieMeyer.com | Twilight Series | Midnight Sun Preview However, the novel has been indefinitely put on hold due to a recent leak of the transcript. In response, Meyer has made a rough draft of the first 12 chapters available on her website.Bands included in her playlists include Muse, Blue October, Coldplay, and Linkin Park.StephenieMeyer.com | Twilight Series | Twilight | Playlist&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Published worksMeyer's first novel, Twilight, was published in October 2005. By November, Twilight had reached #5 on the ''New York Times'' Best Seller list for young adult chapter books.Meyer soon published the sequel to Twilight, New Moon, in August 2006. In its first week of release, it debuted at the number 5 position on the New York Times Best Seller List for Children's Chapter Books. In its second week it rose to the number 1 position, where it remained for the next eleven weeks. In total, it spent over 50 weeks on the list.Children's Books: Best Sellers from The New York Times, August 2007One of Meyer's stories was published in Prom Nights from Hell, a collection of stories about bad prom nights with supernatural effects. Other authors who contributed to this collection are Meg Cabot, Kim Harrison, Michele Jaffe, and Lauren Myracle. Prom Nights from Hell was released April 10, 2007.On May 5, 2007, the special edition of New Moon was released. It included New Moon temporary tattoos, an Eclipse poster, and the first chapter of Eclipse.On August 7, 2007, Eclipse, the third book in the Twilight series, was released. In total, the three books have spent a combined 143 weeks on the New York Times Best Seller list.[http://www.time.com/time/magazine/article/0,9171,1734838,00.html Stephenie Meyer: A New J.K. Rowling? | Time magazine]On May 6, 2008, Meyer's adult sci-fi novel, The Host, was released by the adult division of Little, Brown and Company; it follows the story of Melanie Stryder and Wanderer, a young woman and an invading "soul", who are forced to work as one in order to find Jamie and Jared, Melanie's little brother and the love of Melanie's life respectively.On May 31, 2008, the special edition of Eclipse was released. It contains the cover art and first chapter of Breaking Dawn as well as "Team Edward" and "Team Jacob" t-shirt transfers.On August 2, 2008, the fourth installment of the Twilight series, Breaking Dawn, was released. 3.7 million copies were printed of the 754-page book, with over 1.3 million copies being sold on the first day alone.Critical receptionTwilight quickly gained recognition and won numerous honors, including:A New York Times Editor's ChoiceA Publishers Weekly Best Book of the YearAn Amazon.com "Best Book of the Decade...So Far"A Teen People "Hot List" pickAn American Library Association "Top Ten Best Book for Young Adults" and "Top Ten Books for Reluctant Readers”Translation into 20 languages StephenieMeyer.com | Official BioHowever, critical reception has been mixed. Booklist wrote, "There are some flaws here&mdash;a plot that could have been tightened, an overreliance on adjectives and adverbs to bolster dialogue&mdash;but this dark romance seeps into the soul."Booklist review cited on amazon.com Kirkus wrote: "[Twilight] is far from perfect: Edward's portrayal as monstrous tragic hero is overly Byronic, and Bella's appeal is based on magic rather than character. Nonetheless, the portrayal of dangerous lovers hits the spot; fans of dark romance will find it hard to resist."Kirkus Reviews cited on bn.comFan followingMeyer has gained a following among young adult readers for her Twilight novels, which are set in the small town of Forks on the Olympic Peninsula in Washington state. Forks has thus received an unusual amount of attention, and celebrates "Stephenie Meyer Day" on September 13, the date of character Bella Swan's birthday, in honor of the author. City of Forks, Washington: Stephenie Meyer DayFans express themselves in other ways: "They dress up like her characters. They write their own stories about them and post their tales on the Internet. When she appears at a bookstore, 3,000 people go to meet her. There are Twilight-themed rock bands."Stephenie Meyer: A New J.K. Rowling?Completed and upcoming worksYearBook2005Twilight]]''2006New Moon]]''2007Prom Nights From Hell2007Eclipse]]''2008The Host]]''2008Breaking Dawn2008 (forthcoming)Twillight Saga Official Guide(forthcoming)The Soul(forthcoming)The SeekerMeyer had hoped to have Midnight Sun, a retelling of the events of Twilight written from Edward Cullen's perspective, published some time after the release of Breaking Dawn, but due to recent online leak of its rough draft, she has halted its progress indefinitely.She is also "almost done" writing a possible sequel to The Host, entitled The Soul.More From Berlin | Twilight Lexicon&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; If she were to continue the series, the third book would be called The Seeker.'Twilight' Writer Stephenie Meyer Wants Matt Damon For 'Host' Movie - Movie News Story | MTV Movie News&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;She mentions having several other book ideas on file, including a ghost story titled Summer House and a novel involving time travel,Stephenie Meyer's vampire empire | Stephenie Meyer | Cover Story | Books | Entertainment Weekly | 4&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; as well as another about mermaids.Twilight series offers young people a twist on vampire fiction - CBC Arts | Books&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;The Twilight Saga: The Official Guide, which will give further information on the world of the Twilight series, is slated for release on December 30, 2008.On August 28, 2008, it was revealed that Meyer had written the treatment for the new Jack's Mannequin music video, "The Resolution", which she directed the following week.http://www.mtv.com/news/articles/1593776/20080828/jacks_mannequin.jhtml&lt;/ref&gt;Film adaptationSummit Entertainment optioned Twilight in April 2007. The film version is currently categorized as "Coming Soon" on Summit Entertainment's website.Summit Entertainment&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; Catherine Hardwicke has signed on to direct, with a script by Melissa Rosenberg.Fleming, Michael Hardwicke to direct Meyer's 'Twilight', Variety (October 2, 2007) It will star Kristen Stewart as Bella Swan and Robert Pattinson as Edward Cullen.StephenieMeyer.com | Twilight Series | Twilight | Twilight the Movie&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; The movie is set to be released on November 21, 2008.A Strategic Move? Twilight moves release date to November 21! - The Movie-FanaticReferencesExternal links Stephenie Meyer's official websiteThe Twilight Series's official websiteExclusive Stephenie Meyer video &amp; interviewInterview with Stephenie MeyerStephenie Meyer eBooks Category:1973 births Category:Living people Category:American fantasy writers Category:American Latter Day Saints Category:American science fiction writers Category:Arizona writers Category:Brigham Young University alumni Category:People from Hartford, Connecticut Category:People from Phoenix, Arizonacs:Stephenie Meyerová da:Stephenie Meyer de:Stephenie Meyer es:Stephenie Meyer fr:Stephenie Meyer hr:Stephenie Meyer it:Stephenie Meyer nl:Stephenie Meyer no:Stephenie Meyer pl:Stephenie Meyer pt:Stephenie Meyer ru:Майер, Стефани simple:Stephenie Meyer fi:Stephenie Meyer sv:Stephenie Meyer zh:史蒂芬妮·梅爾