United States | Instrument = Guitar, Vocals, drums | Genre = Punk rockPop punkSkate punkAlternative rock | Occupation = Musician, Songwriter, Vocalist | Years_active = 1984 - Present | Label = Nitro RecordsEpitaph RecordsSony BMG Music EntertainmentColumbia Records | Associated_acts = The Offspring  Bryan Keith Holland, (born December 29, 1966)Some sources claim that Dexter Holland was born in 1966. See the article on age disputes and discrepancies for details., better known under his pseudonym of '''Dexter Holland', is the singer and rhythm guitarist for the Californian punk rock band The Offspring, who are best known for their hit singles, such as "Come Out and Play", "Self Esteem", "Pretty Fly (For a White Guy)", "Why Don't You Get a Job?", "Want You Bad" and others. He is also the owner of the independent record label Nitro Records.BiographyCareer with The OffspringAfter failing to get into a Social Distortion show in 1984, he decided to form a band with friend and fellow cross-country teammate Greg Kriesel. That band, "Manic Subsidal," would eventually become The Offspring. After recording a demo in 1988,The Offspring at NIPP, obtained November 10, 2007. The Offspring signed a deal with a small-time label, Nemesis Records, for whom they recorded their first full length album, entitled The Offspring, in March 1989. This album would eventually be re-issued on November 21, 1995 by Holland's own record label, Nitro Records.In 1991, the band signed with Epitaph Records (home of Bad Religion, L7, NOFX, Pennywise and other similar bands). The band's first album on Epitaph was Ignition, which was released in 1992. The band's last album for that label was 1994's Smash, which still holds the world record for most sales of an album on an Indie Label. The band then signed with Columbia Records in 1996 (although Dexter claims that Brett Gurewitz, owner of Epitaph, sold the contract to Columbia), for whom they have released Ixnay on the Hombre (1997), Americana (1998), Conspiracy of One (2000), Splinter (2003) and Rise and Fall, Rage and Grace (2008).Dexter often communicates with fans of The Offspring by way of the band's internet journal.Holland was recently ranked 73rd in the March 2007 Edition of Kerrang! 100 Stars Who Rock Your World List.Personal lifeHolland was the class valedictorian at Pacifica High School in Garden Grove, California and was a Ph.D. candidateDexter Holland's Opus by Jonathan Slowik, Daily Trojan, April 12, 2004 in Molecular Biology from the University of Southern California; however, he abandoned his Ph.D. in favor of focusing on The Offspring. He has a Bachelor's degree in Biology and a Master's degree in Molecular Biology, both from the University of Southern California.Holland married hairstylist Kristine Luna, who co-wrote the Offspring song "Session," on August 12, 1995IMDb.com They married - August 12th 1995.He has one daughter, Alexa Holland.Holland is also a licensed Airline Transport Pilot and has made a solo trip around the world in 10 days.He also participated in the 2006 Los Angeles Marathon; his charity of choice was the Innocence Project, a non-profit legal clinic that handles legal cases where post-conviction DNA testing of evidence can yield conclusive proof of innocence. Holland finishedhttp://www.athlinks.com/myresults.aspx?rid=5846712 7900th with a time of 5:01. Afterward, Holland signed his shoes and donated them to charity.Dexter has his own brand of hot sauce, Gringo Bandito. According to the Arts & Music section of the Los Angeles Times (newspaper), Holland's Hot Sauce is bottled in a Newport Beach facility that distributes 120 gallons a week. Holland says that Albertsons has started carrying his hot sauce, which he reports is "huge for us".Why don't you get a job? by Geoff Boucher, LA Times, June 15, 2008Musical equipmentAll of Hollands Ibanez RG's bodies are made out of basswood and fitted with DiMarzio Super Distortion bridge pickups, except for the diamond plated ones which are made out of mahogany and equipped with DiMarzio Super 3 pickups.http://www.bebo.com/Blog.jsp?MemberId=2076034809&lt;/ref&gt;&lt;ref&gt;http://offspring.ru.ru/members/dex_e.html&lt;/ref&gt; During their latest reocrdings holland used a vintage Gibson for much of the recordings.http://www.ultimate-guitar.com/interviews/interviews/offsprings_noodles_i_dont_care_to_argue_how_punk_i_am.html&lt;/ref&gt;Ibanez Custom RG - Tiger print finish used during Smash era.Ibanez Custom RG - Root beer finish used during Smash to the Conspiracy of One era.Ibanez Custom RG - Purple finish used during the Conspiracy of One era.Ibanez Custom RG - Silver diamond plate used from Splinter and onwards.Ibanez Custom RG - Black diamond plate used from Cant repeat and onwards.Fender Stratocaster - Black finish and white pickquard.Gibson SG - Cherry finish with a P-90 pickup used on Rise and Fall, Rage and Grace.Sony Wireless SystemDR 10 Gauge StringsFurman PL-8 Power ConverterSabine RT-1601 Rack TunerWhirlwind Line SelectorMesa Boogie Amplifiers - Used in live performances.VHT Pitbull Amplifiers - Used in live performances.Marshall JCM2000 - Used during recordings.VOX AC-30 - Used during recordings.Notes and ReferencesExternal linksDexter Holland's Opus Category:1965 births Category:American male singers Category:American punk rock singers Category:California musicians Category:Living people Category:The Offspring members Category:University of Southern California alumnide:Dexter Holland es:Dexter Holland fr:Dexter Holland ko:덱스터 홀랜드 it:Dexter Holland hu:Dexter Holland nl:Dexter Holland ja:デクスター・ホーランド no:Dexter Holland pl:Dexter Holland pt:Dexter Holland ru:Холланд, Декстер fi:Dexter Holland sv:Dexter Holland tr:Dexter Holland