 Thun () is a municipality in the district of Thun in the canton of Berne in Switzerland with about 42,136 inhabitants (1 January 2006).It is located where the River Aare flows out of Lake Thun (Thunersee), 30 km south of Bern. Besides tourism, machine and apparatus engineering, the largest garrison of the country, the food industry and publishing are of economic importance to Thun.HistoryThe area of what is now Thun was inhabited since the Neolithic age (mid-3rd millennium BC). The name of the city derives from the Celtic term Dunum, meaning "fortified city". It fell to Rome in 58 BC, when Roman legions conquered almost all Switzerland, and soon became one of the main centres of Roman administration in the region.The Romans were driven off from Thun, along with the whole of Switzerland, by the Burgundians around 400 AD. The Aare became the frontier between the Christian Burgundians and the Pagan, German-speaking Alemanni, who lived north. Thun was mentioned for the first time during the 7th century, in the chronicle of Frankish monk Fredgar.The region of Thun became a part of the Holy Roman Empire in 1033, when Conrad II gained the title of King of Burgundy. The emperors entrusted the Zähringen family, centred in Bern, to subdue the unruly nobles of central Switzerland. Around 1190 Duke Bertold V of Zähringen, built a castle in Thun and expanded the city. After Bertold's death in 1218, his territories went to Ulrich III von Kyburg.In 1264 Thun received state rights and in 1384 the town was bought by the canton of Bern. Thun was the capital of the Oberland canton of the Helvetic Republic.In 1819 a Military School was founded in the city, which later developed in the main military school in Switzerland. Thun was connected to the railway network of Switzerland in 1859 and telephone access made available in 1888..]]Main sightsThe Castle (twelfth century) with a history museum. This has several sections about medieval armors and weaponry and rural life.The Rathaus (townhall), erected in the sixteenth centuryLake Thun and the view of the AlpsThe Wocher Panorama, the oldest remaining panorama drawing in the world.The Kunstmuseum ThunSportsSoccer: FC Thun plays in the Swiss Challenge League. Their home ground is the Lachen stadium. On 23 August, 2005 FC Thun qualified for the group stages of the UEFA Champions League.Orienteering: Thun hosted the 1981 World Orienteering Championships.In fictionAn important scene in the spy novel Smiley's People by John le Carré is set here.Notable residentsTanja Frieden, Olympic gold medalist 2006 (Snowboard Cross)Niklaus Gerber (1850-1914), Dairy chemist and industrialistGallery Image:IMGP7329.jpg|View of the city Image:Thun castle.jpg|The Castle of Schadau in an early 20th century image Image:Thun1.jpg|View of city from main station Image:Thun_from_lake.jpg|View of city from Lake Thun Image:4284 - Thun - Stadtkirche, Obere Schleuse.JPG|Surfing in the wake of the Upper Sluice External linksThun.ch  Official city websiteTourist informationCity livecam with archive since 2005Category:Cities in Switzerland Category:Municipalities of Berne Category:Castles in Switzerlandbg:Тун cv:Тун cy:Thun da:Thun de:Thun es:Thun eo:Thun fr:Thoune id:Thun it:Thun he:תון lb:Thun nl:Thun (stad) ja:トゥーン no:Thun pms:Thun pl:Thun pt:Thun ro:Thun rm:Thun ru:Тун scn:Thun sr:Тун sv:Thun (kommun) vo:Thun zh:图恩