 | Flower = White Magnolia | Tree = Pine | Bird = Korean Magpie | OtherSymbol1 = | OtherSymbol1Value = | OtherSymbol2 = | OtherSymbol2Value = | Emblem = Daejeon symbol.gif | Map = Daejeon SK.png 'Daejeon '() is a capital city of Chungcheongnamdo Province and metropolitan city in the center of South Korea. It is the fifth largest city of South Korea, with a population of 1,442,856 at the end of 2005. It is at the crossroads of Gyeongbu railway, Honam railway, Gyeongbu highway, and Honam highway. Within the city limits lies Daedeok Science Town, an area with more than 200 research institutions.HistoryThe Daejeon area was historically known as Hanbat (한밭), a native Korean term for "large field", during the Joseon Dynasty. The term "Daejeon" simply means the same thing in Hanja.Historically, Daejeon was a small village without many residents. However, in 1905, the Gyeongbu railway began operations from Seoul to Busan, opening a station at Daejeon. Soon after, in 1926, under rule of the Japanese government, the Honam railway was built between Daejeon and Mokpo, transforming the latter into a major transportation hub. Because of its geographical location and proximity to means of transportation, Daejeon grew quickly.In 1932, the capital of Chungnam province moved from Gongju to Daejeon. After numerous changes were made to the city boundaries, among them one that effectively made the nearby town of Daedeok a part of the city in 1983, Daejeon became a metropolitan city in 1995.In 1997, the Daejeon Government Complex was constructed in order to decentralize the population of South Korea from Seoul. The population of Daejeon increased dramatically as a result.Today, Daejeon's population growth is the second highest in the country, after Seoul, resulting in a large number of new apartment complex projects and hi-tech industries in Yuseong-gu.GeographyDaejeon lies between latitudes N36°10'50" to N36°29'47" and longitudes E127°14'54" to E127°33'21" near the middle of South Korea. It is 167.3 km from Seoul, 294 km from Busan and 169 km from Gwangju. Sejong City, which is planned to be the new administrative capital of South Korea, will also be close by. The city is surrounded by several mountains, and Gyeryongsan National Park straddles the city border to the west. Three streams which eventually join with Geum River, called Gapcheon (갑천), Yudeungcheon (유등천), and Daejeoncheon (대전천), flow through the city from south to north.Administrative divisionsDaejeon is divided into 5 wards ("Gu"):Daedeok-gu (대덕구; 大德區)Dong-gu (동구; 東區)Jung-gu (중구; 中區)Seo-gu (서구; 西區)Yuseong-gu (유성구; 儒城區)Central business districtDaejeon has become the recipient of the country's effort to decentralize certain ministries of the national government. The middle of the city or the new central business district called Dunsan is where the effort has manifested itself. Newer apartment complexes, albeit structurally similar to that of the rest of the city, sprung up around the new government structures being constructed concurrently in just a few short years starting from the mid-1990s. Newer municipal buildings including the city's courts and the province's main parliamentary building soon followed. The result is a several square mile neighbourhood full of restaurants, standard Korean western-type bars and coffee shops. The area is a place for the workers of the new Daejeon to live close to their offices, most able to walk to work, and dine and shop in a new urban environment.EducationBeing known as the Silicon Valley of Korea, Daejeon is home of various private and public Research Institutes, Centers and Science parks (i.e. R&D centers of Samsung, LG, Korea University of Science and Technology & others are located within Daedeok Science Town in Yuseong-gu.The Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology is an institution of higher education focused on research in science and technology, and was ranked as the best Asian science and technology school by Asiaweek in 2000. It is also home to the Information and Communications University, which specializes in research in information technology, and Daejeon Science High School, which is a selective high school focused on teaching science. High schools in South Korea usually do not require special entrance exams.Chungnam National University, a major national university established for the South Chungcheong province, and Pai Chai University, which is one of the oldest private universities in South Korea, are also located within the city.Research and DevelopmentDaejeon features twenty-three research institutes. Best known among them are the Korea Research Institute of Bioscience and Biotechnology (KRIBB), the Korea Atomic Energy Research Institute (KAERI), a leader in nuclear power, the Electronic and Telecommunications Research Institute (ETRI) whose WiBro technology has been adopted as the international standard for 3G wireless communication, the Korea Aerospace Research Institute (KARI), developer of the KOMPSTAT satellite program and the National Fusion Research Institute which just unveiled the KSTAR nuclear fusion reactor.CultureParksIn 1993, an international exposition (Expo '93) was held at Daejeon. Several landmarks such as the Hanbat Tower and the Expo Bridge were built at this time. After the exposition ended, the grounds were refurbished as Expo Science Park. Next to the park is the National Science Museum, which had moved to its current location in 1990.There are not too many sight seeing locations in Daejeon. Most of the cultural centres and sight seeing places are located in Yuseong-gu district with the exception of Ppun park and Daejeon Zoo.ArtsThe Daejeon Museum of Art, located in Dunsan Grand Park, is an art museum focused on the convergence of art and technology. Since it was established in 1998, numerous exhibitions on contemporary art have been held. Other cultural landmarks include the Daejeon Philharmonic Orchestra, which recently began touring internationally as a cultural symbol of the city.SportsThe Daejeon World Cup Stadium was constructed in preparation for the 2002 FIFA World Cup. Several games have been held there, including the South Korea vs. Italy match in the second round. It is also the current home for the K-League football club Daejeon Citizen, and National League side Daejeon Hydro &amp; Nuclear Power FC. Daejeon also hosts amateur football club Daejeon de la Cuba, which plays in the Super Sunday Football League.The city is home to LPGA golfers Se Ri Pak and Jang Jeong, as well as the South Korean actor Kwon Sang-woo. Daejeon is also the hometown of former New York Mets left-handed reliever Dae-Sung Koo.MediaDaejeon is a provincial center for the television, newspaper and publishing industries.In Daejeon, major television broadcasting companies such as KBS, MBC have branches. TJB is a local television broadcaster based in Daejeon. In most apartments, cable TV services are available. 8 channels of Mobile TV are provided with the digital radio channels. Several FM radio stations provide news and music on the air. KBS, MBC, TJB has their FM radio channels and there are Christian radio channels, FEBC and CBS, and traffic news channel TBN.Daejeon ilbo is a local newspaper which covers South Chungcheong province.TransportationDaejeon is a center of transportation in South Korea, where two major expressways, Gyeongbu highway and Honam highway, and two major railways, Gyeongbu railway and Honam railway, are joined. Travel time between Daejeon and Seoul using the high-speed railway system, otherwise known as KTX, is about fifty minutes. The nearest airport to Daejeon is Cheongju Airport, about a thirty-minute drive north of Daejeon.SubwayA subway system with five lines is undergoing planning and construction in Daejeon. The first part of this system, Daejeon Subway Line 1 began operation on March 16, 2006, and entire line was operating as of April 17, 2007. It is notably different from the system used in Seoul in its smaller car width; lack of doors between cars; fewer number of cars, use of four cars to a train instead of ten; and free space under the seats. The subway also uses round tokens instead of flat magnetic tickets as is the case with Seoul - the tokens are pressed into a sensor when passing the turnstiles, and inserted into a slot on the other side when getting out. The nature of the tokens allows them to be used for advertising as well. Platform screen doors are installed in the subway stations.Sister cities Oda, Japan &mdash; 1987 Seattle, United States &mdash; 1989 Budapest, Hungary &mdash; 1994 Nanjing, China &mdash; 1994 Calgary, Canada &mdash; 1996 Guadalajara, Mexico &mdash; 1997 Uppsala, Sweden &mdash; 1999 Novosibirsk, Russia &mdash; 2001 Brisbane, Australia &mdash; 2002 Binh Duong, Vietnam &mdash; 2005 Wuxi, China &mdash; 2006See alsoList of cities in South KoreaList of Korea-related topicsReferencesExternal linksDaejeon Metropolitan GovernmentDaejeon TourYuseong-gu District WebsiteSeo-gu District WebsiteDaedeok-gu District WebsiteDong-gu District Website  Category:Cities, towns and villages in South Korea Category:Daejeonbg:Теджън ca:Daejeon da:Daejeon de:Daejeon et:Taejŏn es:Daejeon eo:Deĝon fr:Daejeon zh-classical:大田廣域市 ko:대전광역시 io:Daejon id:Daejeon ia:Daejeon it:Daejeon lt:Tedžonas mr:दैजोन nl:Daejeon ja:大田広域市 no:Daejeon uz:Daejeon pl:Taejŏn pt:Daejeon ro:Daejeon ru:Тэджон fi:Daejeon sv:Daejeon vi:Daejeon wuu:大田广域市 zh:大田广域市