    The Roots are an American hip-hop band from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. They are famed for a having a jazzy, eclectic approach to hip-hop which includes live instrumentation. Their debut album was released in 1993 and they have collaborated with a wide range of artists from different genres, including Roy Ayers and Cody Chesnutt. The Roots have garnered critical acclaim and influenced many rap and R&B acts.HistoryOrigins and ''Organix''The group's original lineup was formed in Philadelphia around 1987. They began to do shows around Philly and in 1992 or 1993 left to perform in Europe. They rented out a flat in London and performed in Europe for approximately one year. In order to sustain themselves financially, The Roots released what would be known as their debut album: Organix. The album went on to sell about 150,000 copies. Following the release of Organix, several major record labels offered deals and the band signed with DGC Records, which at the time was better known for its grunge music releases. With their new record deal, the quintet headed back to the states.''Do You Want More?!!!??!''Ignored by the hip-hop fanbase, The Roots' first album for DGC, Do You Want More?!!!??! , was nonetheless a moderate hit among alternative music fans, due in part to the group's appearance at Lollapalooza. Also lauded for its jazziness, the album was equal parts jazz improv/instrumentation and beat box. It featured the songs "Distortion to Static" and "Proceed".''Illadelph Halflife''The 1996 release Illadelph Halflife was the group's first album to crack the Top 40 on the Billboard 200 chart, spurred in part by MTV's airplay of the video for "What They Do" (a parody of rap video clichés) and "Clones," which was their first single to reach the top five on the rap charts. "What They Do" was also the group's first single to hit the Top 40 of Billboard's charts, reaching a peak of #34. While continuing on the path of live instrumentation, the album's sound was somewhat darker. It was also The Roots' first album to include prominent guests, such as Common on "UNIverse At War", D'Angelo and Erykah Badu on "Hypnotic" and Q-Tip on "Ital (The Universal Side)."''Things Fall Apart''The group released ''Things Fall Apart'' in 1999 (named after Things Fall Apart, a novel by Chinua Achebe, which in turn was named after a line from The Second Coming by W.B. Yeats). This was their breakthrough album, peaking at #4 on the Billboard 200 charts and earning a gold record, signifying U.S. sales of at least 500,000 units. The track "You Got Me," duet with R&amp;B singer Erykah Badu and Eve peaked inside the top 40 on the Billboard Hot 100 charts and earned them a Grammy award for Best Performance By A Duo Or Group.Like "Illadelph Halflife", TFA was not quite as jazzy as previous works, instead incorporating more neo soul influences. First-time cameos on TFA for Philly natives Beanie Sigel and Eve helped to earn them major record deals later (with Roc-A-Fella and Ruff Ryders, respectively). After this album, Dice Raw left the collective to record his solo debut album, Reclaiming the Dead.The group's popularity continued to rise through the album. With a Grammy under their belts, they were able to perform an extended set at the now infamous "Woodstock '99".''Phrenology''A hectic time ensued for The Roots; several members left; including long time member Malik B. Their popularity increased with their sales and a spot backing Jay-Z for his live MTV Unplugged album. With heightened popularity came mounting pressure. The Roots released Phrenology (named after the pseudoscience of Phrenology) in 2002. Despite not charting as high as Things Fall Apart, reaching a peak of #28 on the charts, Phrenology was commercially successful, eventually going gold, and earning a Grammy nomination for Best Album. At the time, however, there came rumors that the Roots were losing interest in their signing with MCA.During this time the band also backed Jay-Z for his 2003 farewell concert in Madison Square Garden, and appeared in the accompanying "Fade to Black" DVD.''Tipping Point''After Phrenology, Ben Kenney and Scratch both left the group. Their major label deal with Geffen began to sour as pressures were mounted on the group to sell more records. This culminated with the release of 2004's The Tipping Point, which took its name from a 2000 book The Tipping Point by Malcolm Gladwell. The album earned two more Grammy nominations: one for Best Urban/Alternative Performance for the track "Star" and another for Best Rap Performance By A Duo Or Group for the track "Don't Say Nuthin'."It debuted at #4 on the Billboard album chart, selling over 100,000 copies in its first week of release, just shy of going gold. Subsequently, the group left the label after the album's release. Contractual obligations resulted in the release of Home Grown! The Beginner's Guide To Understanding The Roots, Volumes 1 & 2 in 2005, a two-disc compilation album.''Game Theory''Game Theory was released August 29, 2006, on Def Jam records. ?uestlove describes the album as being very dark and reflective of the political state in America. The first single from the album, "Don't Feel Right", appeared on the internet in May 2006, and is available for free download on several web sites. Various guest appearances had been rumored, but Scratch Magazine confirmed only two: Peedi Peedi and Malik B. The late J Dilla also produced one song on the album. The album's first video, titled "The Don't Feel Right Trilogy", premiered on August 21, 2006, and features three songs, "In the Music", "Here I Come" and "Don't Feel Right". It earned an 83 on Metacritic and 2 Grammy Nominations.''Rising Down''The Roots' eighth studio album (10th overall), Rising Down, was released on April 29, 2008, the 16-year anniversary of the Rodney King riots of 1992.In the weeks before the album's release, the original first single "Birthday Girl", a radio-friendly collaboration with Fall Out Boy's Patrick Stump was removed from the album reportedly because it didn't fit in with the album's tone. It remained as a digital download available from iTunes as a bonus track, as well as on international releases.Picking up where Game Theory left off, the album maintains a dark and political tone, with Black Thought and several guests venting about the ills of society today. The album's guests include Chrisette Michele, Common, Mos Def, Saigon, Styles P, Talib Kweli, and Wale; it also features Philly favorites Dice Raw, DJ Jazzy Jeff, Peedi Crakk, P.O.R.N., and Truck North, as well as former member Malik B. Rising Down features the Roots incorporating a more electronic and synth-heavy feel into their sound. Rising Down was released to critical acclaim, garnering an overall score of 80 on Metacritic.The album's first single was "Rising Up" featuring Chrisette Michele and D.C. rapper Wale.MembersThe Roots' original lineup included Tariq "Black Thought" Trotter (MC) and Ahmir "?uestlove" Thompson (drums), who were classmates at the Philadelphia High School for Creative and Performing Arts. As they began to play at school and on the streets, they added a bassist named Josh "The Rubberband" Abrams, who went on to form the jazz group The Josh Abrams Quartet. They later added another MC named Malik Abdul Basit-Smart ("Malik B."), a new bassist Leonard Nelson Hubbard ("Hub"), and a keyboardist named Scott Storch. Another MC, Kenyatta "Kid Crumbs" Warren, was a part of the group for their first album, Organix, but did not appear on any later albums. Yet another MC, Dice Raw, joined on for cameos in later albums. Scott Storch also left to pursue a producing career following the Do You Want More?!!!??! album. The split, however, was on amicable terms: Storch continues to produce tracks for Roots albums to this day. The Roots filled his void with another keyboardist, Kamal Gray, who is still a member.  A beatboxer named Rahzel also joined the group and contributed from 1995 - 1999. Alongside Rahzel was vocal turntablist Scratch, who DJ'd for them during live concerts. He abruptly left in 2003. Malik B. left the group in 1999 due to drug problems but continued to record, making occasional cameos on future albums. A guitarist, Ben Kenney, had a short stint with the group and contributed to their Phrenology album, but left to join Incubus as their bassist. A percussionist, F Knuckles, was added in 2002 and guitarist, Kirk Douglas (a.k.a. "Captain Kirk"), replaced Kenney. A vocalist, Martin Luther, toured with The Roots in 2003 and 2004 and contributed to their Tipping Point album. The group announced in August 2007, to the dismay of fans, that longtime bassist, Leonard Hubbard, was leaving the group. "One of our partners is leaving us tonight, ladies and gentlemen, Leonard Hubbard" (Black Thought @ moe.down 8/31/07). The current members of The Roots are Black Thought (MC), ?uestlove (drums), Kamal (keyboard), F Knuckles (percussion), and Captain Kirk (guitar). Recently, they have toured with sousaphonist Damon &quot;Tuba Gooding Jr.&quot; Bryson and Game Theory producer and current bassist Owen Biddle.All members have worked with PETA to promote compassion for animals and the vegetarian lifestyle.Chronologically Numbered TracksThe Roots' albums starting from Organix have, consistently, to their most recent album released (Rising Down), featured the track listings on the back of their CDs and LPs in a continuous order. Organix the Roots' debut album lists tracks 1-17 followed by Do You Want More?!!!??! listing tracks 18-33 and the Roots' third album, Illadelph Halflife, lists tracks 34-53.The Roots' fourth album Things Fall Apart lists tracks 54-70 and was the first to contain a hidden track. This hidden track is number 71, Act Fore...The End. Thus the tracks listed on the outside of Things Fall Apart number to 70, with track 71 being alluded to underneath the disc hub. This track is located at approximately 7:10 into track 70 Return to Innocence Lost.A five track EP entitled The Legendary contains numbered tracks 72-76. It contains no hidden track.The complete tracks 77-86 can only be found on the Roots Limited Edition 2 disc pressing of their first live album to date entitled The Roots Come Alive. Disc 2 is no longer in print and contains tracks 81-86. Track 80 is a hidden track and appears on Disc 1 after You Got Me(lasting approximately until 8:50) and Encore (8:51-13:48) track 80 appears at approximately 14:24, it completes Disc 1.The Roots' 2002 album, Phrenology, lists tracks 87-100. It contains two hidden tracks. 101. Rhymes and Ammo which appears after 2 :20 soundless tracks are played. The disc then counts backwards with 101 beginning at -7:19. Track 102, Thirsty, appears at -2:46. Thirsty is the last track on Phrenology.The Tipping Point lists tracks 103-112. Tracks 113 is a hidden track fading in at approximately 4:38.Game Theory contains tracks 114-127. Track 127 Bread and Butter is only available on iTunes and the Japanese CD edition.Rising Down was released on April 29, 2008 containing tracks 128-141. Track 142 is a hidden track. The Pow Wow 2.Notes:The two volumes of Homegrown! count from a negative number and reach 0. A CD entitled The Roots Best of Mixtape mixed by DJ J. Period does not follow the chronologically numbered tracks and is numbered 1-50. This album was a promotional mixtape put out to promote Game Theory in 2006.Tracks that appear in the live performance on The Roots Come Alive that were from previous albums retain their original numbers. The earliest being track 10. Essaywhuman?!! (Originally on Organix, performed live) and most recent a live performance of The Legendary's "the Ultimate" track number 74.Touring and Other WorkThe band tours extensively, and their live sets are frequently hailed as the best in the genre. Recently, the band played a concert in NYC's Radio City Music Hall with Common, Nas, Talib Kweli and Big Daddy Kane. They also backed Jay-Z a third time, for his Reasonable Doubt Concert, a celebration of the 10-year anniversary of the release of his first album.The Roots have been featured in four movies: Dave Chappelle's Block Party; both performing album songs and playing as a backing band for other artists, Spike Lee's Bamboozled, and Marc Levin's Brooklyn Babylon, in which Black Thought plays the protagonist, Solomon, and former band member Rahzel narrates, and Chasing Liberty; starring Mandy Moore. Black Thought and ?uestlove were both featured in the movie "Brown Sugar," Black Thought also made an appearance in the film "Love Rome" as Tariq Trotter, and ?uestlove currently appears in the 2008 documentary movie about TBC Brass Band called [http://www.fromthemouthpieceonback.com From the Mouthpiece on Back], which lists The Roots as one of the executive producers of the movie.The band guest performed on August 25 and August 26 with the Dave Matthews Band during their 2007 summer tour. Members of The Roots played in various forms as well as a whole band on DMB's back to back concerts at Alpine Valley Music Theatre in East Troy, Wisconsin.The group hosts a highly-anticipated Jam Session every year the night before the Grammys. The Roots Jam Session, produced by Okayplayer, Goodtime Girl Entertainment and Keldof, has been attended by everyone from Jay Z, Beyonce and Tom Cruise to Don Cheadle, Jeremy Piven and Prince with impromptu performances from Snoop Dogg and Corrine Bailey Rae to Queen Latifah, Matisyahu and Dave Chappelle.Billed as The Roots, ?uestlove, Kirk and Owen made an appearance on The Colbert Report on April 15, 2008 when Stephen Colbert spent a week in Philadelphia prior to the 2008 Pennsylvania Democratic primary. During the appearance, they performed the intro song to the show, and closed the episode with a rendition of the Star Spangled Banner.The song 'Here I Come' was featured in the movies Superbad and Hancock.AwardsGrammy awards** 1999: Won for Best Rap Performance By A Duo Or Group for "You Got Me" (featuring Erykah Badu and Eve)2002: Nominated for Best Rap Album for Phrenology2004: Nominated for Best Urban/Alternative Performance for "Star;" nominated for Best Rap Performance By A Duo Or Group for "Don't Say Nuthin'."2007: Nominated for Best Rap Album for Game Theory; nominated for Best Rap Performance By A Duo Or Group for "Don't Feel Right."MTV Video Music Awards2003: Nominated for MTV2 award for "The Seed 2.0"mtvU Woodie Awards2004: Nominated for Road Woodie and Welcome Back WoodieBET Awards2005: Nominated for Best GroupNAACP Image Awards2005: Nominated for Outstanding Duo or Group** 2007: Won for Outstanding Duo or GroupNamed one of the "twenty greatest live acts in the world" by Rolling Stone in 2003Won a "Heroes Award" from the Philadelphia chapter of the Recording Academy in 2004First Hip-Hop group to perform at Lincoln Center in January, 2002**2007: Won for Max Stevenson International Hip-Hop Award for 'Game Theory' albumDiscographyExternal linksThe Roots' Official WebsiteTheRoots.comThe Roots Jam SessionThe Roots video interview at Hydro Connect Festival August 2008Okayplayer.comThe Roots at www.Allmusic.comTheRootsArchive.comRahzel A former member of The RootsRetrospective of The Roots @ DefJamFree Live Performance Videos/MP3's @ TheRootsLive.comThe Roots @ BonnarooLollapalooza 2007 Live Performance VideoThe Roots on VelvetpandaReferencesRoots, The Category:Culture of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Roots, The Roots, The Roots, The Roots, The Roots, The Roots, The Roots, The Roots, The Roots, The Category:Rap acts performing with live bandbg:The Roots de:The Roots es:The Roots fr:The Roots it:The Roots hu:The Roots nl:The Roots ja:ザ・ルーツ pl:The Roots fi:The Roots sv:The Roots