 linkRolling Stone  linkThe Washington Post link| Artist = Queen | Last album = A Day at the Races(1976) | This album = News of the World(1977) | Next album = Jazz(1978) | Misc =  News of the World is the sixth studio album by English rock band Queen, released in 1977.Containing hit songs "We Will Rock You" and "We Are the Champions" and "Spread Your Wings", the album went platinum in the United Kingdom, four times platinum in the United States and achieved high certifications elsewhere throughout the world also.Despite being a distinct departure from the band's progressive sound, the album is considered one of Queen's strongest albums. It received mixed reviews from both critics and fans upon its release, but today it is considered to be a milestone album in the development of arena rock.News of the World was the second album to be produced solely by the band (the first being A Day at the Races) and was recorded at Sarm West and Wessex Studios, England and co-produced and engineered by Mike Stone.BackgroundAfter releasing A Day at the Races, Queen's self-producing debut and followup to A Night at the Opera which featured their magnum opus "Bohemian Rhapsody", having received some criticism that Races was a "boring" album, Queen decided to shift their musical focus towards the mainstream, but remaining as the producers of the next album. After completing the A Day at the Races Tour, the quartet re-entered the studio to begin work on their sixth studio offering in July 1977, enlisting Mike Stone as assistant producer at the Basing Street Studios in Wessex, London. The group completed recording and production of the album two months later in September and released the album on 28 October. Initially, the album's critical response was mixed, and some was rather negative commenting that the group had again produced a "bland" album; however as the singles for the album were released, the reviews' favourability improved, and sales quickly improved.During the recording of the album, the Sex Pistols were recording their album Never Mind the Bollocks, Here's the Sex Pistols in the next studio and Johnny Rotten was eager to meet Mercury, so he crawled on all fours through Queen's studio, up to the side of the piano where Mercury was playing, and said "Hello, Freddie!" before crawling out.Brian May describes News of the World as being a "rootsier" album than previous Queen records, partly due to the punk scene breaking at that time, which inspired Queen to record a more "back to basics" rock album. News of the World is a less finely polished production than their previous offerings. The complex vocal harmonies and guitar orchestrations that are used heavily in earlier Queen albums are used much more sparingly and subtly on this album.Track listingSide one"We Will Rock You" (Brian May) – 2:01"We Are the Champions" (Freddie Mercury) – 2:59"Sheer Heart Attack" (Roger Taylor) – 3:26"All Dead, All Dead" (May) – 3:09"Spread Your Wings" (John Deacon) – 4:32"Fight from the Inside" (Taylor) – 3:03Side two"Get Down, Make Love" (Mercury) – 3:51"Sleeping on the Sidewalk" (May) – 3:07"Who Needs You" (Deacon) – 3:07"It's Late" (May) – 6:27"My Melancholy Blues" (Mercury) – 3:29Bonus track (1991 Hollywood Records CD reissue)"We Will Rock You" (1991 Remix by Rick Rubin) (May) – 4:47Song informationWe Will Rock You "We Will Rock You" () was released in the UK as a B-side to "We Are the Champions", and became one of Queen's biggest songs worldwide. A staple of arena and stadium sports everywhere, it was a conscious decision by Brian May to make the song simple and anthemic ("stomp, stomp, clap, pause" in a 4/4 metre), so that their live audience could be more directly involved in the show. Elektra Records in the US recommended putting "We Will Rock You" and "We Are the Champions" together as a single, and the double A-side reached #4 in the US in 1978. In the video for "We Will Rock You" and "Spread Your Wings", May used a copy of his guitar. He supposedly didn't want to commit his Red Special to outside conditions, as the videos for these songs featured the band performing in the snow at Taylor's garden.We Are the Champions According to Freddie Mercury, "We Are the Champions" had been already written in 1975 but it wasn't recorded until 1977.A Night at the Opera DVD commentary. Mercury was thinking about football when he wrote it and was surprised that nobody composed anything to overtake it as a sports anthem. "We Are the Champions" was the first promotional video for which fan club members were invited to participate in the filming. The video was filmed at the New London Theatre October 6, 1977. Everyone got a single and Queen did a free concert after the shoot.Sheer Heart Attack"Sheer Heart Attack" was half-finished at the time of the eponymous album. Roger Taylor sang lead on the demo but for the definitive version the band decided Mercury should sing lead vocals (probably based on the fact that May had already sung two songs and Taylor one). Guitars and bass were played by Taylor, apart from some guitar "screams" by May during the instrumental section.During this time, the punk rock movement went into full effect, and this song was viewed as something of a jab at the musicians who felt bands like Queen were too self-indulgent. Of note is the lyric "I feel so inarticulate", and the fact that Taylor stated in interviews that he thought many of the 1970s punk bands had very little talent.German Heavy metal band Helloween covered the song. The cover can be heard as a B-side for their single "Just a Little Sign".All Dead, All Dead"All Dead, All Dead" was written and sung by May, and features Mercury on backing vocals; May also plays piano. Lyrically, the song deals with May's experiences following the death of his childhood pet cat.Spread Your Wings "Spread Your Wings" () was written by John Deacon. The piano is played by Mercury, although Deacon mimes it in the music video. Guitarist Brian May is seen playing a copy of his Red Special due to the cold weather conditions where the video was filmed. Also, drummer Roger Taylor can be seen singing in the video despite there being no backing vocals in the entire song. It was the first Queen single without harmony vocals.Fight from the Inside"Fight from the Inside" was written and sung by Roger Taylor. In addition to the drums, Taylor also plays rhythm and bass guitar, the latter borrowed from Deacon himself.The track is built around a jangly guitar riff and is amongst the first in the Queen catalogue to focus predominantly on the drums and bass, as opposed to the lead guitars. Lyrically, the song can be interpreted as an expression of scorn directed at punk rock fans which at the time had lambasted Queen (http://www.queenwords.com/lyrics/songs/sng06_06.shtml).Get Down, Make Love"Get Down, Make Love", written by Mercury, is among the most sexual-oriented songs in the Queen catalogue.The distinctive 'psychedelic' sound effects heard in the song were not produced on a synthesizer, but on May's Red Special and an Electroharmonix Frequency Analyzer pedal, which he would often do live. These sound effects, together with Mercury's moans and groans, were expanded upon during live renditions of the song, presenting the band an opportunity to show off the full potential of their stage lights and effects.The song was later covered by Nine Inch Nails, appearing on their "Sin" single.Sleeping on the Sidewalk"Sleeping On The Sidewalk", written and sung by May, was inspired by Eric Clapton. It was recorded in one take. On close inspection, John Deacon can be heard playing the wrong notes in some bass parts. Brian May can also be heard laughing at the end of the song. Lyrically, it deals with an aspiring trumpet player's career, delivered in a "rags-to-riches" fashion. May sings with an American accent, providing some near-authentic blues credibility to the jam, and measures the aforementioned trumpet player's success by "bucks" (as opposed to pounds). It is also one of the few Queen songs that does not feature Mercury.The reason the song is so aloof is because the band was not aware they were being recorded at the time and were simply practicing, while the engineer had turned on the recording.&lt;/ref&gt;Who Needs You"Who Needs You" was written by Deacon, who, along with May, also plays Spanish guitar (also heard on "Innuendo"). May also plays maracas and Mercury plays a cowbell. The song is fairly similar to Deacon's earlier song "Misfire", in terms of music.It's Late "It's Late", written by May, was the author's idea of treating a song as a three-act theatrical play. It makes use of the tapping technique before Eddie Van Halen of rock group Van Halen brought the technique into the mainstream.My Melancholy Blues"My Melancholy Blues" was composed by Mercury. There are no backing vocals or guitars. Despite the title, the track is more related to jazz. Deacon played fretless bass on stage during this song but used a regular fretted bass on the record.We Will Rock You 1991 remixIn 1991, record producer Rick Rubin was enlisted to remaster News of the World, along with several others of the Queen discography. In doing this, Rubin selected one to three songs from each to remix. From News of the World, he selected the album's lead track "We Will Rock You", which has also been one of Queen's most successful songs of their career. Originally, the song was 2:01 in length, however it faded out in the middle of a guitar solo by Brian May. With his remix, Rubin re-instated the rest of the guitar solo, however several error occurred and the band was dissatisfied with the remix and rejected it. Hollywood Records supported its inclusion of the remastered version of the album, so upon the insistence of the band, in its placing on the track listing on the rear cover, it noted "1991 Bonus Remix Ruined by Rick Rubin". This version was more than twice as long as the original version, as it was 4:47 long. This version featured addition drum and bass parts, provided by longtime Rubin associates Chad Smith and Flea of the Red Hot Chili Peppers. It was also heavily electronic, featuring record scratching, as well as Brian May's original solo from the Queen song "Stone Cold Crazy" at the very end of the song. By contrast, the original version was recorded employing more modest recording facilities.Cover'', October 1953]] The album's cover was a painting by award-winning American sci-fi artist Frank Kelly Freas. Taylor had an issue of Astounding Science Fiction (October 1953) whose cover-art depicted a giant intelligent robot holding the dead body of a man. The caption read: "Please... fix it, Daddy?" to illustrate the story "The Gulf Between" by Tom Godwin. The robot killing the man was likened to a child injuring a bug and looking up at his parents saying "what have I done?". The painting inspired the band to contact Freas, who agreed to alter the painting for their album cover, by replacing the single dead man with the four "dead" band members (Taylor and Deacon falling to the ground). The original painting (also called The Gulf Between) features on the cover of Freas's collection of art As He Sees It (Paper Tiger, 2000).Brian May confirmed the cover was Roger Taylor's idea on an episode of the US radio show In the Studio with Redbeard, which devoted an episode to the making of News of the World.Singles"We Are the Champions" released 7 October, 1977 in the UK as the first single where it reached #2. In the US, it was released as a Double A-side with "We Will Rock You" where it reached #4."Spread Your Wings" followed as the second single from the album. Written by John Deacon and released in the UK on 10 February, 1978, it reached #34."It's Late" is the last single from the album and was only released as a single in the United States, Canada, Japan and New Zealand in 1978. Only reached #74 in the US, failing to chart everywhere else.ReceptionCritical responseNews of the World initially received mixed reviews, mostly reflecting on the differences to the previously predominantly progressive rock sound produced by Queen, and this album's vast shift towards a more pop-rock oriented sound. Following the immense success of singles "We Will Rock You" and "We Are the Champions", the critical reception shifted towards a more positive stance, as it became evident that the band was displaying another field of their musical ability.ChartsCountryChartsSalesPeak positionWeeksCertificationUnits soldCanada13xPlatinum600,000France1Gold560,000Netherlands13xPlatinum250,000Portugal1Silver10,000Japan3150,000United States3364x Platinum4,500,000Norway421United Kingdom4202x Platinum600,000Germany5Platinum700,000Austria928Sweden98SwissPlatinum70.000PersonnelFreddie Mercury: Lead vocals, piano, backing vocals, percussion.Brian May: Electric guitars, acoustic guitar, lead vocals, backing vocals, percussion.Roger Taylor: Drums, electric guitar, bass guitar, lead vocals, backing vocals, percussion.John Deacon: Bass guitar, acoustic guitar,Spanish guitar,percussion,programming.ReferencesCategory:1977 albums Category:Queen (band) albums Category:Elektra Records albums Category:Parlophone albums Category:Hollywood Records albumsbs:News Of The World cs:News of the World da:News of the World de:News of the World (Queen) es:News of the World (álbum) eo:News of the World (Queen) fr:News of the World (album) hr:News of the World (album) it:News of the World he:News of the World (אלבום) lv:News of the World hu:News of the World (album) nl:News Of The World ja:世界に捧ぐ no:News of the World (plate) pl:News of the World pt:News of the World ru:News of the World simple:News of The World (album) sk:News of the World (album) fi:News of the World (albumi) sv:News of the World (musikalbum)