 | |birth_place = Rudkøbing, Denmark |death_date =  |death_place = Copenhagen, Denmark |residence = |citizenship = |nationality = |ethnicity = |field = physicschemistry |work_institutions = |alma_mater = |doctoral_advisor = |doctoral_students = |known_for = electromagnetism |author_abbrev_bot = |author_abbrev_zoo = |influences = |influenced = |prizes = |religion = |footnotes = |signature = Hans Christian Ørsted (August 14, 1777 &ndash; March 9, 1851) was a Danish physicist and chemist. He shaped post-Kantian philosophy and advances in science throughout the late nineteenth century.Brian, R.M. & Cohen, R.S. (2007). Hans Christian Ørsted and the Romantic Legacy in Science, Boston Studies in the Philosophy of Science, Vol. 241. He is best known for discovering the relationship between electricity and magnetism known as electromagnetism. He was also the first modern thinker to explicitly describe and name the thought experiment.Early life and studiesØrsted developed his interest in science while working as a young boy for his father, Søren Christian Ørsted, who owned a pharmacy. He and his brother, Anders Sandøe Ørsted, received most of their early education through self-study at home, leaving home for Copenhagen in 1793 to take entrance exams for the University of Copenhagen. The brothers passed and distinguished themselves academically at the University. By 1796, Ørsted received honours for his papers in both aesthetics and physics.In 1801, Hans received a travel scholarship and public grant that enabled him to spend three years traveling in Europe. In Germany, he met Johann Wilhelm Ritter, a physicist who believed there was a connection between electricity and magnetism. The connection made sense to Ørsted since he believed in the unity of nature, and, therefore, that a relationship must exist between most natural phenomena.Their conversations drew Ørsted into the study of physics. He became a professor at the University of Copenhagen in 1806 and continued his research with electric currents and acoustics. Under his guidance, the University developed a comprehensive physics and chemistry program and established new laboratories.ElectromagnetismWhile preparing for an evening lecture on 21 April 1820, Ørsted developed an experiment which provided evidence that surprised him. As he was setting up his materials, he noticed a compass needle deflected from magnetic north when the electric current from the battery he was using was switched on and off. This deflection convinced him that magnetic fields radiate from all sides of a wire carrying an electric current, just as light and heat do, and that it confirmed a direct relationship between electricity and magnetism.At the time of discovery, Ørsted did not suggest any satisfactory explanation of the phenomenon, nor did he try to represent the phenomenon in a mathematical framework. However, three months later he began more intensive investigations. Soon thereafter he published his findings, proving that an electric current produces a magnetic field as it flows through a wire. The CGS unit of magnetic induction (oersted) is named in honor of his contributions to the field of electromagnetism.His findings resulted in intensive research throughout the scientific community in electrodynamics. The findings influenced French physicist André-Marie Ampère's developments of a single mathematical form to represent the magnetic forces between current-carrying conductors. Ørsted's discovery also represented a major step toward a unified concept of energy.AluminiumIn 1825, Ørsted made a significant contribution to chemistry by producing aluminium for the first time.PoetryØrsted was also a published writer and poet. His poetry series Luftskibet ("Airship") was inspired by the balloon flights of fellow physicist Étienne-Gaspard Robert.National Museum of Denmark. "The Soul in Nature: 1802". Accessed 30 July 2007.Death and legacy− Danish banknote from 1970 featuring Ørsted]]Ørsted died in 1851, and was buried in the Assistens Cemetery in Copenhagen.The 100 danske kroner note issued from 1950 to 1970 features an engraving of Ørsted.Today, the buildings which are home to the Department of Chemistry and the Institute for Mathematical Sciences at the University of Copenhagen, are named The H.C. Ørsted Institute in his honor. Also, the first Danish satellite, launched 1999, was named Ørsted in his honor.See alsoJames Clerk MaxwellThought experimentReferencesDibner, Bern, Oersted and the discovery of electromagnetism, New York, Blaisdell (1962).Ole Immanuel Franksen, H. C. Ørsted - a man of the two cultures, Strandbergs Forlag, Birkerød, Denmark (1981). (Note: Both the original Latin version and the English translation of his 1820 paper "Experiments on the effect of a current of electricity on the magnetic needle" can be found in this book.)     External linksInteractive Java Tutorial on Oersted's Compass Experiment National High Magnetic Field Laboratory  Category:1777 births Category:1851 deaths Category:Danish chemists Category:Danish physicists Category:Discoverers of chemical elements Category:Gentleman scientists Category:Recipients of the Copley Medal Category:University of Copenhagen alumni Category:People associated with electricityaf:Hans Christian Oersted ar:هانز كريستيان أورستد ast:Hans Christian Ørsted zh-min-nan:Hans Christian Ørsted bs:Hans Christian Oersted bg:Ханс Кристиан Оерстед ca:Hans Christian Ørsted cs:Hans Christian Ørsted da:Hans Christian Ørsted de:Hans Christian Ørsted el:Χανς Κρίστιαν Έρστεντ es:Hans Christian Ørsted eo:Hans Christian Ørsted eu:Hans Christian Ørsted fa:هانس کریستین اورستد fr:Hans Christian Ørsted gl:Hans Christian Ørsted ko:한스 크리스티안 외르스테드 hr:Hans Christian Ørsted id:Hans Christian Oersted is:Hans Christian Ørsted it:Hans Christian Ørsted he:הנס כריסטיאן אורסטד jv:Hans Christian Oersted ht:Hans Christian Orsted hu:Hans Christian Ørsted nl:Hans Christian Ørsted ja:ハンス・クリスティアン・エルステッド no:Hans Christian Ørsted pl:Hans Christian Ørsted pt:Hans Christian Ørsted ro:Hans Christian Oersted ru:Эрстед, Ганс Христиан sa:हान्स कृस्टियन ओर्स्टेड sco:Hans Christian Ørsted simple:Hans Christian Ørsted sk:Hans Christian Ørsted sl:Hans Christian Ørsted sr:Ханс Кристијан Ерстед sh:Hans Christian Oersted fi:Hans Christian Ørsted sv:Hans Christian Ørsted tl:Hans Christian Ørsted th:ฮันส์ คริสเทียน เออร์สเตด vi:Hans Christian Ørsted tr:Hans Christian Ørsted uk:Ерстед Ганс Крістіан vo:Hans Christian Ørsted zh:汉斯·克里斯蒂安·奥斯特