  | birth_place = Ruhango, South Province, Rwanda | dead = | death_date = | death_place = | spouse = Jeannette Nyiramongi | party = FPR | religion = Roman Catholichttp://www.cwnews.com/news/viewstory.cfm?recnum=43261  Paul Kagame (born October 23, 1957) came to prominence as the leader of the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF), whose invasion of Rwanda is often cited as the primary reason the Rwandan Genocide came to a close. The RPF's victory over the incumbent government in July 1994 effectively ended the genocide. In 2003, he became the first democratically elected President of Rwanda following the genocide.Official Website for H.E. Paul Kagame&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Early lifeKagame was born to a Tutsi family in Ruhango, Rwanda in October 1957 to Deogratius and Asteria Rutagambwa. In November 1959, an increasingly restive Hutu population, encouraged by the Belgian Military, sparked a revolt, eventually resulting in the overthrow of Mwami Kigeri V Ndahindurwa in 1961. During the 1959 revolt and its aftermath, more than 150,000 people were killed in the fighting, with the Tutsis suffering the greatest losses. Several thousand moved to neighbouring countries including Burundi and Uganda. In all, some 20,000 Tutsis were killed. In 1960 Kagame left with his family at the age of three and moved to Uganda with many other Tutsis. In 1962 they settled in the Gahunge refugee camp, Toro, where Kagame spent the rest of his childhood years. He attended Ntare Secondary School in Uganda.Military serviceHis military career started in 1979, when he joined Yoweri Museveni's National Resistance Army (NRA) and spent years fighting as a guerrilla against the government of Milton Obote in what is commonly known in Uganda as the bush war.On July 27, 1985, Milton Obote was ousted in a military coup led by Tito Okello. In 1986 the NRA succeeded in overthrowing Okello and the NRA leader Yoweri Museveni became President of Uganda.  in the Oval Office in the White House.]]This same year, Kagame was instrumental in forming, along with his close friend Fred Rwigema, the Rwandese Patriotic Front (RPF), which was composed mainly of expatriate Rwandan Tutsi soldiers that had also fought with the NRA; the RPF was also based in Uganda.In 1986, Kagame became the head of military intelligence in the NRA, and was regarded as one of Museveni's closest allies. He also joined the official Ugandan military.== Rwandan invasions and genocide ==  In October 1990, while Kagame was participating in a military training program at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, the RPF invaded Rwanda in the struggle for the liberation of Rwanda's minority ethnic group Tutsi. Only two days into the invasion, Rwigema was killed, making Kagame the military commander of the RPF. Despite initial successes, a force of French, Belgian, Rwandan, and Zairean soldiers forced the RPF to retreat. A renewed invasion was attempted in late 1991, but also had limited success.The invasion increased ethnic tension throughout the region, including in neighbouring Burundi where similar tensions existed. Peace talks between the RPF and the Rwandese government resulted in the Arusha accords, including political participation of the RPF in Rwanda. Despite the agreement, ethnic tensions still flared dangerously.On 6 April 1994, a plane carrying both the Rwandan President Juvénal Habyarimana and Burundian President Cyprien Ntaryamira was shot down by a surface-to-air missile as it approached Kigali airport. All on board were killed. The deaths immediately sparked the Rwandan Genocide and an estimated 1,000,000 Rwandans were killed. Under the Arusha accords, the RPF had a small contingent of troops present in Kigali at the time. The outbreak of genocide ended what vestiges remained of the cease fire. The climax of the war was reached on the 4th July 1994 when RPF, under the leadership of General Paul Kagame, took control of the whole country and rooted out the self-appointed genocidal government of Jean Kambanda, which was fuelling the killings.Because French citizens died during the crash of the plane, an investigation was carried out by Jean-Louis Bruguière, a French judge, who controversially concluded that the shooting of the plane was ordered by Kagame. In November 2006 Jean-Louis Bruguière signed international indictments against nine of President Kagame's senior aides and accused Kagame of ordering the assassination of two African presidents (Rwandan president Juvénal Habyarimana and his counterpart Cyprien Ntaryamira of Burundi). Kagame could not be indicted under French law (as a head-of-state he has immunity from prosecution). The indictments have failed to produce any arrests due to the perceived partiality and controversial motives behind their issuance.The indictment was based upon declarations by fugitives and disgruntled former lower rank RPF members stating that the RPF was the only organization with the missiles that were used in the assassination. It failed however to explain the contradictory fact that at the time of the shooting of the plane, the french military was in control of Kigali Airport. and corroborated by several witnesses including former intelligence RPF members, the most publicly known being Abdul Ruzibiza. The Association des Avocats de la Defence has also released a statement backing Jean-Louis Bruguière allegations.The former chief prosecutor for Yugoslavia and Rwanda, Judge Richard Goldstone, stated that "Well I don't think that case has been made at all. It's a very political judgement and I don't believe that it's borne out by the evidence." . Thus expressing the widely held view that the indictments were being used as a political weapon by the French establishment, as way of discrediting the RPF and shifting the blame for the genocide that was conducted by the former government that had received strong financial and military backing from Paris.In a 2007 interview with the BBC, Mr Kagame said he would co-operate with an impartial inquiry.The Second Congo War  Kagame was part of the cabinet of President Pasteur Bizimungu, who came to power in the aftermath of the genocide. Kagame was made Vice President of Rwanda and Defense Minister. Bizimungu was also a member of the RPF, and as its military leader, Kagame was viewed as the power behind the throne, and eventually became President when Bizimungu was deposed in March 2000.In 1998, Rwanda got heavily involved in the Second Congo War, supporting a well-armed rebel group in Congo, the Congolese Rally for Democracy. Together with Uganda, Rwandan forces invaded the mineral-rich north and east of Democratic Republic of Congo, citing Congolese anti-Tutsi policies and historical Rwandan heritage in the area. The government of Congo soon found itself supported by several other African nations, and mounted a counter attack, with limited success.An April 2001 United Nations report alleged "mass scale looting" of Congolese mineral resources. The report claimed that senior members of the Rwandan government had made hundreds of millions of dollars from illegal mineral trading, and that:A June 2001 Amnesty International report implicated Rwandan and Rwandan-backed forces (amongst others) in the deliberate killing of thousands of Congolese civilians.Although the Rwandan and Ugandan governments claim to have withdrawn their forces from Congo, there are consistent reports of ongoing Rwandan involvement in support of rebel fighters trying to protect local Tutsi minorities against remnants of the Interahamwe, the militia involved in the 1994 Rwanda Genocide. However, in September 2007, the Rwanda government has strongly denied any involvement in the current Congo fighting.Critics allege that the Rwandan occupation of the Eastern Congo has been motivated chiefly by a desire to exploit Congolese mineral resources. Paul Kagame has, in turn, claimed that these criticisms are based on Hutu-extremist propaganda, and that Rwanda's sole reason for occupying the Congo has been to defeat the remnants of the Hutu-extremist militia who fled there from Rwanda after the 1994 genocide.A 2002 United Nations report elaborated on the allegations of illegal profiteering by Rwandan and Ugandan forces in Congohttp://wwww.reliefweb.int/rw/rwb.nsf/AllDocsByUNID/706b89b947e5993dc1256c590052b353 United Nations, October 2002: Final report of the Panel of Experts on the Illegal Exploitation of Natural Resources and Other Forms of Wealth of DR Congo:President Kagame, Thabo Mbeki, and George W. Bush]] Paul Kagame became President of Rwanda in March 2000, after Bizimungu was deposed. Three and a half years later, on August 25, 2003, he won a landslide victory in the first national elections since his government took power in 1994 winning 94% of the votes..Kagame is highly critical of the United Nations and its role in the 1994 genocide. In March 2004, his public criticism of France for its role in the genocide and its lack of preventative actions caused a diplomatic row. In November 2006, Rwanda severed all diplomatic ties with France and ordered all its diplomatic staff out of Rwanda within 24 hours following Judge Bruguiere issuing warrants accusing nine high ranking Rwandans of plotting the downing of President Juvenal Habyarimana's airplane in 1994 and also accusing Kagame of ordering the plane shot down.In recent years, Kagame has stated that it is Rwanda's role to play a part in the prevention of Genocide in Africa and elsewhere. As such, the Rwanda Defense Forces have become one of the major contributors of African peace keeping in Darfur, as well as the newly created hybrid AU-UN force. In June 2008, Kagame criticized the authoritarian regime of President Mugabe in Zimbabwe.Zimbabwe:A total failure says KagameHuman rights Regarding human rights under the current government of President Paul Kagame, Human Rights Watch has accused Rwandan police of several instances of extra-judicial killings and deaths in custody.&quot;Rwanda: Police Killings Tarnish Rule of Law&quot;, Human Rights Watch, July 24, 2007 &quot;“There Will Be No Trial”: Police Killings of Detainees and the Imposition of Collective Punishments&quot;, Human Rights Watch, July 2007 In June 2006, the International Federation of Human Rights and Human Rights Watch described what they called "serious violations of international humanitarian law committed by the Rwanda Patriotic Army".&quot;ICTR Should Address Serious Violations of International Humanitarian Law Committed by the RPA&quot;, Human Rights Watch, June 2, 2006According to The Economist, Kagame "allows less political space and press freedom at home than Robert Mugabe does in Zimbabwe", and "anyone who poses the slightest political threat to the regime is dealt with ruthlessly".&quot;A flawed hero&quot;, The Economist, August 21, 2008The United States' government in 2006 described the human rights record of the Kagame government as "mediocre", citing the "disappearances" of political dissidents, as well as abitrary arrests and acts of violence, torture and murders committed by police. US authorities listed human rights problems including the existence of political prisoners and limited freedom of the press, freedom of assembly and freedom of religion.&quot;Human Rights Reports: Rwanda&quot;, embassy of the United States in RwandaReporters Without Borders listed Rwanda in 147th place out of 169 for freedom of the press in 2007&quot;Eritrea ranked last for first time while G8 members, except Russia, recover lost ground&quot;, Reporters Without Borders, and reported that "Rwandan journalists suffer permanent hostility from their government and surveillance by the security services". It cited cases of journalists being threatened, harassed and arrested for criticising the government. According to Reporters Without Borders, "President Paul Kagame and his government have never accepted that the press should be guaranteed genuine freedom."&quot;Rwanda - Annual Report 2007&quot;, Reporters Without BordersQuotesWe cannot turn the clock back nor can we undo the harm caused, but we have the power to determine the future and to ensure that what happened never happens again. You kept quiet... When these victims wanted your help to survive, you kept quiet. It is the first time in the history of Rwanda that political change in the highest leadership of the country has taken place in peace and security. Such problems are not solved in one day but there is a great step toward peace and security in the region. There are some who are scared by unity and by building a country on the basis of ideas.In Africa today, we recognise that trade and investment, and not aid, are pillars of development. Honors and accolades Kagame was in March 2003 awarded the 2003 Global Leadership Award by the Young Presidents' Organization (YPO). He received the award in recognition of his "commitment and tireless work to address crises, to foster understanding, unity, and peace to benefit all people. YPO regard his role in reconciling the Tutsi and the Hutu differences in Rwanda and in developing a peaceful solution to the conflict in the Democratic Republic of Congo as a benchmark of great leadership, uncommon inspiration and remarkable achievement.In April 2005, Kagame was awarded an Honorary Degree of Doctor Laws by the University of the Pacific in the United States.In September 2005, Kagame was awarded the Andrew Young Medal for Capitalism and Social Progress by Georgia State University in the United States.In September 2005, Kagame was awarded the African National Achievement Award by the Africa America Institute in the USA.In April 2006, Kagame was awarded an Honorary Doctorate by Oklahoma Christian University in the USA.In May 2006, Kagame was given the 2006 ICT Africa Award, an award that is designed to recognize and reward organizations and individuals that have demonstrated excellence in promoting the use of ICTs for the overall development of the African continent.In September 2006, Rwanda is listed as a Top-10 reformer on the Ease of doing business index by the World Bank.In August 2007, Kagame was given the Hands Off Cain Award for his role in ending the death penalty in his country.In November 2007, Kagame was awarded an Honorary Degree of Doctor in Law by the University of Glasgow in Scotland.In December 2007, Kagame was given the African Gender Award in Dakar, Senegal for his role in promoting gender equality in Rwanda.      ReferencesSee alsoTokyo International Conference on African Development (TICAD-IV), 2008.External linksBBC Biography of Paul KagamePaul Kagame - a BiographyA PBS Timeline of the GenocideThe 1994 GenocideBBC News, October 2003 - Rwandan ruling party wins electionUnited Nations, April 2001: Report of the Panel of Experts on the Illegal Exploitation of Natural Resources and Other Forms of Wealth of the Democratic Republic of the CongoAmnesty International, June 2001: Democratic Republic of Congo - Rwandese-Controlled East - Devastating Human Death TollBBC News, UN boosts DR Congo border forceGendercide Watch, Case Study: Genocide in Rwanda, 1994George Monbiot, The Guardian, April 2004: &quot;The Victim's License&quot;Freedom House entry on Rwanda, 2005Rwanda: Kagame Addresses Japanese SenateOfficial biographyBBC News, Rwanda leader defiant on killing claim, January 30, 2007See alsoMilitary of RwandaHistory of Rwanda Category:Presidents of Rwanda Category:Current national leaders Category:Rwandan soldiers Category:Rebels Category:1957 births Category:Living people Category:Non-U.S. alumni of the Command and General Staff College Category:People of the Rwandan Genocide Category:Tutsi peoplecs:Paul Kagame da:Paul Kagame de:Paul Kagame et:Paul Kagame el:Πολ Καγκάμε es:Paul Kagame fr:Paul Kagame gl:Paul Kagame ko:폴 카가메 id:Paul Kagame it:Paul Kagame he:פול קגאמה jv:Paul Kagame rw:Paul Kagame lt:Paul Kagame nl:Paul Kagame ja:ポール・カガメ no:Paul Kagame pl:Paul Kagame pt:Paul Kagame ru:Кагаме, Поль simple:Paul Kagame fi:Paul Kagame sv:Paul Kagame yo:Paul Kagame zh:保罗·卡加梅