     The English Cocker Spaniel is a breed of gun dog. There are 2 varieties of English Cocker Spaniels, the "field" or "working" cocker and "show" cocker.[http://www.trainpetdog.com/English-Cocker-Spaniel/about-english-cocker-spaniel.html English Cocker Spaniel: Training, Temperament, Exercise, Health] It is one of several varieties of spaniel and somewhat resembles its American cousin, the American Cocker Spaniel, although it's closer to the working-dog form of the Field Spaniel and the Springer Spaniel. Outside the US, the breed is usually known simply as the Cocker Spaniel, as is the American Cocker Spaniel within the US. Due to the breed's happy disposition and continuously wagging tail, it has been given the nickname "merry cocker".DescriptionAppearanceThe Cocker is a sturdy, compact, well-balanced dog. It has a characteristic expression showing intelligence and alertness. Its eyes should be dark and its lobular ears should reach the tip of the nose when pulled forward. Today, a significant difference in appearance exists between field-bred and conformation show-bred dogs. The Cocker's tail is customarily docked in North America. In countries where docking is legal, the tail is generally docked at about 4&ndash;5&nbsp;inch (10&ndash;13&nbsp;cm) in field-bred dogs while show dogs generally are docked closer to the body. Docking is now not allowed in the UK.Height at withers:Males: 15&ndash;17 inches (38&ndash;43 cm)Females: 15&ndash;16 inches (38&ndash;41 cm)Weight:Males: 28&ndash;34 lb (13&ndash;15 kg)Females: 27&ndash;32 lb (12&ndash;15 kg)ColourBreed standards restrict dogs to certain colours for the purposes of conformation showing (dependent on country), whereas working Cockers can be any of a wide variety of colours.They come in solid (or "self"), where white is restricted to only the chest, parti-colour, and roan.The colours in the breed consist of black, black and tan, black and white, black white and tan, blue roan, blue tick, blue roan and tan, silver, chocolate, chocolate and tan, chocolate and white, chocolate white and tan, chocolate roan, chocolate roan and tan, sable, copper red, red, gold, buff, red roan, red and white, apricot, orange, orange and white, orange roan, lemon, lemon and white, lemon roan.Although field-bred and conformation dogs are found in largely the same colours, some hunters prefer to have white in the coat to make the dog more visible to gunners.TemperamentCockers are renowned for their friendly, faithful, playful, quiet, and affectionate natures. They are easily trained and make a good medium-sized family pet. English Cockers have a loving temperament and make excellent family pets. They will often bond to one person in a family. They have a "go do it now" attitude.Scientists have known for some time that there is a link between coat colour and temperament. This link is probably the colour pigment melanin, which is bio chemically similar to chemicals that act as transmitters in the brain. Cocker Spaniel behaviour has been studied in more detail than any other breed.According to a study made by the University of Cambridge involving over 1,000 Cocker Spaniel households throughout Britain – concluded that solid colour Cockers were more likely to be aggressive in 12 out of 13 situations. Red/golden Cockers were shown to be the most aggressive of all, in situations involving strangers, family members, while being disciplined, and sometimes for no apparent reason. Podberscek AL & Serpell J A (1996) The English Cocker Spaniel: preliminary findings on aggressive behaviour. Applied Animal Behaviour Science 47: 75-89 cited by A red cocker’s temperament can be controlled through early basic training.HealthSome times cocker spaniels can get "rage syndrome", although; only a small number of Cocker Spaniels are affected.When a Cocker Spaniel is born with this condition; they are usually born with poor eye sight or no sight at all.MortalityEnglish Cocker Spaniels in UK and USA/Canada have an average lifespan of 11 to 12 years,http://users.pullman.com/lostriver/breeddata.htm Dog Longevity Web Site, Breed Data page. Compiled by K. M. Cassidy. Retrieved July 8, 2007 which is a typical longevity for purebred dogs, but a little less than most other breeds of their size.http://users.pullman.com/lostriver/weight_and_lifespan.htm Dog Longevity Web Site, Weight and Longevity page. Compiled by K. M. Cassidy. Retrieved July 5, 2007 The English Cocker Spaniel typically lives about a year longer than the smaller American Cocker Spaniel.In a 2004 UK Kennel Club survey, the most common causes of death were cancer (30%), old age (17%), cardiac (9%), and "combinations" (7%).http://www.thekennelclub.org.uk/item/570 Kennel Club/British Small Animal Veterinary Association Scientific Committee. 2004. Purebred Dog Health Survey. Retrieved July 5, 2007  In 1998 and 2002 USA/Canada Health Surveys, the leading causes of death were old age (40%) and cancer (22%). http://www.ecsca.org/98healthsur.html Slater, M. R. 1998. English Cocker Spaniel Health Survey, final report. December 16, 1998. English Cocker Spaniel Club of America. Retrieved July 8, 2007  http://www.ecsca.org/healthsurvey02.html Slater, M. R. 2004. The 2002 English Cocker Spaniel Health Survey Report.MorbidityCommon health issues with English Cockers are bite problems, skin allergies, shyness, cataracts, deafness, aggression towards other dogs, and benign tumours.  Some uncommon health issues that can also have an effect on English Cocker Spaniels include canine hip dysplasia, patellar lunation, canine dilated cardiomyopathy, and heart murmurs. Hip dysplasia is an abnormal formation of the hip joint. Patellar Lunation, also known as luxating patella, refers to the dislocation of the kneecap. Canine dilated cardiomyopathy involves heart failure. http://www.powerscourt-cockers.co.uk/advice_pages/other_health_issues_cockers.htm Retrieved December 1, 2007 SkillsA field-bred cocker spaniel is first and foremost an upland flushing dog. In performing this task there are some skills the dog must be trained to perform.Hup This is the traditional command to sit and stay. To be an effective hunter the dog must comply with this command absolutely. When hupped the dog can be given direction called to the handler. The ability to hup a dog actively working a running bird allow the handler and any gunners to keep up without having to run.Retrieve to Hand The majority of hunters and all hunt test or field trial judges require that a dog deliver a bird to hand, meaning that a dog will hold the bird until told to give it to the hunter directly.Quarter Dogs must work in a pattern in front of the hunter seeking upland game birds. The dog must be taught to stay within gun range to avoid flushing a bird outside of shooting distance.Follow Hand Signals Upland hunting involves pursuing wild game in its native habitat. Gun dogs must investigate likely covers for upland game birds. The dog must be responsive to hand signals in order for the hunter to be able to direct the dog into areas of particular interest.Steady When hunting upland birds, a flushing dog should be steady to wing and shot, meaning that he sits when a bird rises or a gun is fired. He does this in order to mark the fall and to avoid flushing other birds when pursuing a missed bird.HistorySpaniel type dogs have been found in art and literature for almost 500 years.&lt;/ref&gt; Initially, spaniels in England were divided among land spaniels and water spaniels. The differentiation among the spaniels that led to the breeds that we see today did not begin until the mid 1800’s. During this time, the land spaniels became a bit more specialized and divisions among the types were made based upon weight. According to the 1840 Encyclopedia of Rural Sports, Cockers were 12&ndash;20&nbsp;lb (5.5&ndash;9&nbsp;kg). At this time it was not uncommon for Cockers and Springers to come from the same litter. Even a puppy from a “Toy” sized lineage could grow to be a springer.There is no indication from these early sources that spaniels were used to retrieve game. Rather they were used to drive the game toward the guns.During the 1850s and 1860s other dogs types of Cockers were recorded. There were Welsh Cockers and Devonshire Cockers. Additionally, small dogs from Sussex Spaniel litters were called Cockers. In 1874 the first stud books were published by the newly formed kennel club. Any spaniel under 25&nbsp;lb (11&nbsp;kg) was placed in the Cocker breeding pool, however the Welsh Cocker was reclassified as a Springer in 1903 due to its larger size and shorter ear. "...in those days only those dogs up to a hard day’s work and sensible specimens were allowed to live, as absolute sporting purposes were about their only enjoyment and dog shows were hardly heard of...".The sport of conformation showing began in earnest among spaniels after the Spaniel Club was formed in 1885. When showing, the new Springer and Cocker, both were in the same class until The Spaniel Club created breed standards for each of the types. The Kennel Club separated the two types eight years later. Since then, the Springer and Cocker enthusiasts have bred in the separate traits that they desired. Today, the breed differ in more ways than weight alone.In America, the American Cocker Spaniel type was forming. As a result, the English Cocker lost favour. The two Cocker Spaniels were shown together until 1936, when the English Cocker received status as a separate breed. The American Kennel Club granted a separate breed designation for the English Cocker Spaniel in 1946.Famous Cocker Spaniel OwnersFamous people who owned English Cocker spaniels include Robert Kennedy, former U.S. President Richard Nixon,poet Elizabeth Barrett Browning.http://www.learnwithdogs.co.uk/factSheets/fsenglishcockerspaniel.pdf&lt;/ref&gt;, and Maritza DominguezWorking Cockers This breed, like many others with origins as working dogs, has some genetic lines that focus on working-dog skills and other lines that focus on ensuring that the dog's appearance conforms to a breed standard; these are referred to as the "working" (or "field-bred") and "conformation" strains, respectively.After World War II, Cocker Spaniels bred for pets and for the sport of conformation showing increased enormously in popular appeal, and, for a while, was the most numerous Kennel Club registered breed. This popularity increased the view that all Cockers were useless as working dogs. However, for many dogs this is untrue, as even some show-bred Cockers have retained their working instinct.Today, this breed is experiencing a resurgence in usage as a working and hunting dog. Dogs from working lines are noticeably distinct in appearance. As is the case with the English Springer Spaniel, the working type has been bred exclusively to perform in the field as a hunting companion. Their coat is shorter and ears less pendulous than the show-bred type. Although registered as the same breed, the two strains have diverged significantly enough that they are rarely crossed. The dogs that have dominated the hunt test, field trial and hunting scene in the United States are field-bred dogs from recently imported British lines.&lt;/ref&gt;Working-dog lines often have physical characteristics that would prevent them from winning in the show ring. This is a result of selecting for different traits than those selected by show breeders. The longer coat and ears, selected for the show ring, are an impediment in the field.Cuban authorities train and use English Cocker Spaniels as sniffer dogs to check for drugs or food products in passengers' baggage at Cuban airports.See alsoAmerican Cocker SpanielEnglish Springer SpanielWelsh Springer SpanielReferencesFurther readingRoettger, Anthony. Urban Gun Dogs: Training Flushing Dogs for Home and Field, The Writer's Collective, 2004. ISBN 1-59411-050-6Grainger, Alexandra. Training your Cocker...Whilst Playing with Children. Complete Owner's Guide.Fergus, Charles. Gun Dog Breeds, A Guide to Spaniels, Retrievers, and Pointing Dogs, The Lyons Press, 2002. ISBN 1-58574-618-5Fogle, Dr. Bruce. Cocker Spaniel English and American, Dorling Kindersley Limited, 1996.External links     Category:Dog breeds Category:Spaniels Category:Sporting dogs Category:Dog breeds originating in the United Kingdombg:Английски кокер шпаньол cs:Anglický kokršpaněl cy:Cocker Spaniel da:Cockerspaniel de:English Cocker Spaniel es:Cocker Spaniel Inglés eo:Skolopa spanielo fr:Cocker Spaniel anglais is:Enskur cocker spaniel it:Cocker Spaniel inglese he:קוקר ספאנייל nl:Engelse cockerspaniël ja:イングリッシュ・コッカー・スパニエル no:Cocker spaniel pl:Cocker spaniel angielski pt:Cocker Spaniel Inglês ru:Кокер-спаниель sk:Anglický kokeršpaniel sr:Енглески кокер шпанијел fi:Cockerspanieli sv:Engelsk cocker spaniel zh-yue:英國曲架