Ivan Yakovlevich Bilibin (Иван Яковлевич Билибин) (August 16, 1876-February 7,1942) was one of the most influential 20th-century illustrators and stage designers who took part in the Mir iskusstva and contributed to the Ballets Russes. Throughout his career, he was strongly inspired by Slavic folklore.Ivan Bilibin was born in a suburb of St. Petersburg. He studied under Ilya Repin and furthered his education in Munich. In 1902-1904 Bilibin travelled in the Russian North, where he became fascinated with old wooden architecture and Russian folklore. He published his findings in the monograph Folk Arts of the Russian North in 1904. Another major influence on his art was traditional Japanese prints.Bilibin gained renown in 1899, when he released his innovative illustrations of Russian fairy tales. During the Russian Revolution of 1905, he executed revolutionary cartoons. He was also the designer for the 1909 première production of Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov's The Golden Cockerel. The October Revolution, however, proved alien to him. After brief stints in Cairo and Alexandria, he settled in Paris in 1925. There he took to decorating private mansions and Orthodox churches. He still longed for his homeland and, after decorating the Soviet Embassy in 1936, he returned to Soviet Russia. He delivered lectures in the Soviet Academy of Arts until 1941. Bilibin died during the Siege of Leningrad.Selected works Image:Bilibin3 saltan.jpg|The merchants visit Tsar Saltan 1905 Image:Bilibin stage.jpg|Stage-set for the opera The Golden Cockerel 1909 Image:Dadon shemakha.jpg|Tsar Dadon meets the Shemakha queen (illustration to The Tale of the Golden Cockerel, 1906) Image:Biliwar.jpg|The Tale of Igor's Campaign Image:Bilibin. Baba Yaga.jpg|Baba Yaga from Vassilisa the Beautiful 1899 Image:Redsun.jpg|Red Horseman from Vasilisa the Beautiful 1899 Image:Firebird.jpg|Ivan Tsarevich catching the Firebird's feather 1899 Image:Morozko.gif|Morozko Image:Ivanbilibin.jpg|Island Buyan 1905 Image:Dobryna.jpg|Dobrynya Nikitich rescues Zabava from the Gorynych Image:Solovej.jpg|Ilya Muromets and Nightingale the Robber Image:Bilibin yaroslav.jpg|Yaroslav the Wise Image:Bilibin Alkonost.JPG|Alkonost Image:bilibin_justice.jpg|Justice of the Rus Image:Bilitower.jpg|Sadko Image:Zmey.jpg|Dobrynya Nikitich slaying the Dragon Zmey Gorynych External linksIvan Bilibin Online&lt;!-- bot-generated title --&gt; at www.artcyclopedia.comIvan Yakovlevich Bilibin&lt;!-- bot-generated title --&gt; at www.scumdog.demon.co.ukSurLaLune Fairy Tale Pages: Fairy Tale Illustrations of Ivan Bilibin Category:Russian illustrators Category:Russian painters Category:Opera designers Category:Illustrators of fairy tales Category:People from Saint Petersburg Category:1876 births Category:1942 deathsbe:Іван Якаўлевіч Білібін cy:Ivan Bilibin de:Iwan Jakowlewitsch Bilibin es:Iván Bilibin fr:Ivan Bilibine it:Ivan Jakovlevič Bilibin nl:Ivan Bilibin ja:イヴァン・ビリビン no:Ivan Bilibin pl:Iwan Bilibin ru:Билибин, Иван Яковлевич fi:Ivan Bilibin tg:Иван Билибин tr:İvan Bilibin uk:Білібін Іван Якович