 linkQ  linkRobert Christgau (A-) linkRolling Stone  link| Last album = Bad(1987) | This album = Dangerous(1991) | Next album = HIStory(1995) | Misc = Dangerous was the first album Michael Jackson released in the 1990s (and his eighth), on November 22, 1991. It became his second to debut at #1 on the Billboard 200 album chart, where it spent the next four consecutive weeks. The album sold over 30 million copies worldwide, and shipped seven million copies in the United States; its sales were higher than Bad's,&lt;/ref&gt;&lt;ref name=&quot;New jack swing&quot;&gt;&lt;/ref&gt; making it his second-best selling album, behind ''[[Thriller (album)|Thriller]]''.ProjectRecording sessions began in Los Angeles at Ocean Way/Record One Studio 2 on June 25, 1990 and ended at Larrabee North and Ocean Way Studio on October 29, 1991 (according to the sleeve notes of the Special Edition of the album), being the most extensive recording project of Jackson's career until that time (over sixteen months compared to the usual six months spent in the recording of his previous three studio albums).In March 1991, Jackson signed a 15 year, 6 album deal to Sony Music. The press reported that Sony actually handed over $1 billion to Jackson, but that was not the case. At the time, Sony estimated that if the albums Jackson released under the new contract sold at the same level they currently sold, it would generate over $1 billion in profits for them. Additionally, Jackson was awarded the highest royalty rate in the business. By the time the contract expired in March 2006, Michael would have been paid $45 million from Sony ($1 million a year, plus $5 million per album delivered). This does not include money he would have also earned from sales of albums, singles, videos etc. Under this contract, Jackson is estimated to have earned $175 million from album sales alone.At this point, Dangerous was already in the making, under the producing talents of (Quincy Jones recommended) 22 year old New Jack Swing inventor Teddy Riley and Grammy-winner Bill Bottrell. The previous album, Bad, was Jackson's last designed for the LP industry, conforming to the usual 10-song within 50-minute format, whereas Dangerous was a 77-minute, 14-track compilation, which almost dared the capacity of early Nineties compact discs. Consequently, the record was released as a double album in vinyl.The album was initially released in a large box with a picture of Jackson's eyes, which folded open to reveal the normal cover (painted by pop surrealist Mark Ryden), in pop-up card, with the CD and booklet in the bottom. Dangerous was greatly anticipated, as shown by an incident at the Los Angeles International Airport, where a group of armed robbers stole 30,000 copies before its official release.Commercial receptionThe album was released on November 22, 1991 and early sales were record-breaking, becoming Jackson's fastest-selling ever in the U.S. with 4 million shipped in under 2 months, beating Bad's 4 million in 4 months. It debuted at #1 on the Billboard Hot 200 album charts, with 326,500 copies sold within one week of release. The album spent four weeks straight at #1, and spent its first 17 weeks inside the ''Billboard'' 200 top 10. The album managed to spend another week inside the top 10 in its 65th week in the charts, reaching #10, after Jackson received the Grammy Legend Award at the 1993 Grammy Awards. The album saw a huge boost in sales during early 1993 when he also performed at the Super Bowl and conducted his famous interview with Oprah Winfrey. In all, Dangerous spent 117 weeks inside the Billboard 200, 30 weeks more than Bad. The RIAA certified Dangerous 7x Platinum, for shipping 7 million copies.In the UK the album was even more successful. It also debuted at #1, holding off the top-spot-big-contender, U2's Achtung Baby. However, in its second week it was replaced by Queen's Greatest Hits II, in the aftermath of Freddie Mercury's death. There it spent 23 weeks inside the top 10 (the last being its 69th week, enjoying an amazing staying power) and a total of 96 weeks inside the top 75. The sales of the album stand at 2.1 million, making Dangerous one of the UK's best-selling albums of the nineties.In terms of worldwide sales, in the UK and U.S., Bad's sales were 48% of the total worldwide sales. For Dangerous this figure is just 33%, making the album a more successful product internationally. However, the singles released from Dangerous were mostly bigger hits in Europe and Australia this time around, and more were released, than the singles from Bad. There were spectacular sales compared to Bad and Thriller in many European countries and Australia. Also Dangerous sold very well in the new emerging and growing record markets of Asia and South America.The first single released from the album, "Black or White" was produced and co-written by Bill Bottrell and it was an instant success, Jackson's biggest hit single since "Billie Jean". Successive singles also enjoyed success. The album produced a total of 9 singles around the world (the title track was planned as a single for the end of 1993 but was cancelled), the same number as Bad. All of them were released in the UK, seven of them reaching the top 10, an achievement never before made by Jackson. The major hits released from the album were "Black or White", "Remember the Time", "In the Closet", "Heal the World", "Who Is It", and "Will You Be There". In the U.S., the singles didn't perform as well as those from Thriller or even Bad, with Dangerous producing four top 10 hits out of 7 singles released there (Bad had six top 10 singles, of which the first five were all #1 hits - Dangerous's only #1 single was "Black or White").Jackson supported the album with the Dangerous World Tour. Jackson would not release another full LP of new songs for a decade, with Invincible in 2001. The double-disc HIStory, released in 1995, contained a second disc of new material, coupled with a greatest hits as the first disc.Music videosAs was becoming the standard for Jackson, the album's music videos were among the most costly and innovative of their time. Several of the music videos taken from the Dangerous album had complex storylines and dance sequences, and featured cameo appearances by celebrities. The video for "Jam", directed by David Kellogg, showed Jackson and Michael Jordan playing basketball and dancing together, while "Remember the Time" was set in an Ancient Egyptian palace, and starred Eddie Murphy and Iman as the pharaoh and his queen. The video also featured a cameo by NBA player Magic Johnson. "In the Closet" featured Jackson and supermodel Naomi Campbell as lovers. The director of the video was photographer Herb Ritts, who also photographed Jackson in a series of promotional shots for the release of the Dangerous album. The video clip for "Who Is It" is notable as it was directed by David Fincher who later went on direct a number of films including Se7en, Fight Club and Zodiac."Black or White" was originally over ten minutes long, premiering simultaneously on November 14, 1991 on MTV, VH1, BET, and FOX. The video featured one of the earliest examples of computer-generated morphing. The last four minutes of the video also induced much controversy, as it depicted Jackson smashing store windows and destroying a car with a crowbar. However, this destructive behaviour was intended to imply a message of anti-racism and racist graffiti was added in later versions to make the violence more understandable. The music video was also controversial because of Jackson's sexually suggestive dance, which included the crotch grab as well as zipping up his pants. MTV and the other music video networks decided to excise the last four minutes of the "Black or White" video for all subsequent airings, and Jackson issued a statement apologizing to anyone who had been offended, and explaining that he tried to interpret the animal instinct of panthers into a dance. The video featured Macaulay Culkin and an appearance during the morphing scene by young Tyra Banks and was directed by John Landis, also the director of the "Thriller" short film.Special editionsAlternative editions of the albums became very rare, products almost exclusive for record collectors. The most notable was an edition released in 1992 that folded out to become a diorama.An international re-release of the album (entitled Dangerous - Special Edition) had place on October 16, 2001, just two weeks before the release of Jackson's studio album Invincible. Simultaneously, Special Editions of Off the Wall, Thriller and Bad were also released. For the occasion, Dangerous was digitally remastered and included a slipcase and a brand new 24-page colorful booklet with revised artwork and previously-unseen photos. The new edition managed to reached #108 in the UK charts (the only one of those four re-releases that didn't enter the Top 75 there). Because of the constraints of Dangerous' running time, previously unreleased songs were not included, however many of them were eventually leaked onto the internet along with various demos of other tracks that appeared on the album. In 2004, some of these leaked tracks were officially released on Michael Jackson: The Ultimate Collection (namely the "Dangerous" demo and "Monkey Business").Music awardsAmerican Music Awards:Best Pop/Rock Album, "Dangerous"Best Soul/R&B Single, "Remember The Time"Special International Artist Award for record sales and humanitarian efforts around the worldBMI Awards:Two of the Most Performed Songs of the Year, "Black or White" and "Remember The Time"Grammy Awards: Living Legend Award Guinness Book Of World Records:25th Silver Anniversary Entertainer of the Year AwardOutstanding Music Video, "Black or White"Soul Train Awards:Best R&B Single, "Remember The Time"Best R&B Album, "Dangerous"World Music Awards:Best Selling American ArtistWorld's Best Selling Pop Artist Michael Jackson Awards&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Track listingCD"Jam" (René Moore, Bruce Swedien, Michael Jackson, Teddy Riley) – 5:39"Why You Wanna Trip on Me" (Teddy Riley, Bernard Belle) – 5:24"In the Closet" (Michael Jackson, Teddy Riley) – 6:31"She Drives Me Wild" (Michael Jackson, Teddy Riley. Rap lyrics by Aquil Davidson) – 3:41"Remember the Time" (Teddy Riley, Michael Jackson, Bernard Belle) – 4:00"Can't Let Her Get Away" (Michael Jackson, Teddy Riley) – 4:58"Heal the World" (Michael Jackson) – 6:24"Black or White" (Michael Jackson. Rap lyrics by Bill Bottrell; features guitarist Slash) – 4:15"Who Is It" (Michael Jackson) – 6:34"Give In to Me" (Michael Jackson, Bill Bottrell; features guitarist Slash) – 5:29"Will You Be There" (Michael Jackson) – 7:40"Keep the Faith" (Glen Ballard, Siedah Garrett, Michael Jackson) – 5:57"Gone Too Soon" (Larry Grossman, Buz Kohan) – 3:26"Dangerous" (Michael Jackson, Bill Bottrell, Teddy Riley) – 6:57LPSide One"Jam" (René Moore, Bruce Swedien, Michael Jackson, Teddy Riley) – 5:39"Why You Wanna Trip on Me" (Teddy Riley, Bernard Belle) – 5:24"In the Closet" (Michael Jackson, Teddy Riley) – 6:31Side Two"She Drives Me Wild" (Michael Jackson, Teddy Riley. Rap lyrics by Aquil Davidson) – 3:41"Remember the Time" (Teddy Riley, Michael Jackson, Bernard Belle) – 4:00"Can't Let Her Get Away" (Michael Jackson, Teddy Riley) – 4:58"Heal the World" (Michael Jackson) – 6:24Side Three"Black or White" (Michael Jackson. Rap lyrics by Bill Bottrell; features guitarist Slash) – 4:15"Who Is It" (Michael Jackson) – 6:34"Give In to Me" (Michael Jackson, Bill Bottrell; features guitarist Slash) – 5:29Side Four"Will You Be There" (Michael Jackson) – 7:40"Keep the Faith" (Glen Ballard, Siedah Garrett, Michael Jackson) – 5:57"Gone Too Soon" (Larry Grossman, Buz Kohan) – 3:26"Dangerous" (Michael Jackson, Bill Bottrell, Teddy Riley) – 6:57SinglesOctober 1991 - "Black or White" U.S. #1 / UK #1January 1992 - "Remember the Time" U.S. #3 / UK #3April 1992 - "In the Closet" U.S. #6 / UK #8July 1992 (U.S.); September 1992 (UK) - "Jam" U.S. #26 / UK #12August 1992 (Europe); February 1993 (U.S.) - "Who Is It" U.S. #14 / UK #10October 1992 - "Heal the World" U.S. #27 / UK #2February 1993 - "Give In to Me" UK #2 (Europe only single)May 1993 - "Will You Be There" U.S. #7 / UK #8November 1993 - "Gone Too Soon" UK #33 (UK only single)CertificationsCountryCertificationSalesAustralia9x Platinum630,000 http://www.mjinf.co.uk/Dangerous/Dangerous.htmAustria4x Platinum80,000 IFPI Austria - Verband der Ã–sterreichischen Musikwirtschaft&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Brazil4x Platinum500,000 Canada6x Platinum600,000 Canadian Recording Industry Association (CRIA): Certification Results&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;France2x Diamond2,000,000 Germany10x Platinum2,000,000 Japan3x Platinum825,000 Spain8x Platinum640,000 Switzerland8x Platinum240,000UK7x Platinum2,100,000 U.S.7x Platinum7,000,000 Chart positionsYearChartPosition1991Billboard 2001Norwegian Albums ChartARIA]] Albums Chart1992Billboard 200Norwegian Albums ChartAustralian ARIA Albums ChartReferencesSee alsoDangerous World Tour    Category:Epic Records albums Category:Michael Jackson albums Category:1991 albums Category:Albums produced by Bill Bottrell Category:Albums produced by Teddy Rileyaz:Dangerous (albom) cs:Dangerous (album) da:Dangerous de:Dangerous es:Dangerous (álbum) fr:Dangerous (album) it:Dangerous he:Dangerous hu:Dangerous nl:Dangerous (album) ja:デンジャラス (アルバム) pl:Dangerous (album Michaela Jacksona) pt:Dangerous sr:Dangerous (album) fi:Dangerous sv:Dangerous (album av Michael Jackson)