majesty|consortname = Paola Ruffo di Calabriatitle = Queen consort of the Belgiansimage = HM Queen Paola, Princess of Belgium.jpgcaption =reign = August 9, 1993 - presentAlbert II]]issue = Prince Philippe, Duke of BrabantPrincess Astrid, Archduchess of Austria-Este  Prince Laurent of Belgiumroyal house = House of Saxe-Coburg-Gothatitles = HM The Queen of The BelgiansHRH The Princess of LiègeDonna Paola Princess Ruffo di Calabriafull name = Paola Margherita Maria Antonia ConsigliaFulco, Prince Ruffo di Calabria]]Luisa Gazelli dei conti di Rossana]]1937|9|11place of birth =date of death =place of death = Paola, Queen of the Belgians, born Princess Donna Paola Margherita Maria Antonia Consiglia Ruffo di Calabria (born 11 September, 1937, Forte dei Marmi, Italy), is the queen consort of Albert II of Belgium. She is the seventh and youngest child of Fulco, Prince Ruffo di Calabria, 6th Duke of Guardia Lombarda  (1884-1946).  Her mother was Countess Luisa Gazelli di Rossana e di Sebastiano (1896-1989), a matrilineal descendant of Gilbert du Motier, marquis de Lafayette. She is of Italian and Belgian ancestry and was hailed as one of the leading beauties of Europe in her youth.The family of the Queen Paola, the princes Ruffo di Calabria are one of the most ancient linages of Italy. The first ancester proved of this House is Giordano who was grand marechal of the Royaume of Sicilia at the beginning of the year 1200. The Ruffo´s were divided into two branches after the XIV century: the Ruffo princes of the Scaletta and the Ruffo di Calabria, to which branch Queen Paola belongs. Her brother, the prince Fabrizio Ruffo di Calabria, the current head of the family, bears the titles of Prince of Scilla, Prince of Palazzolo, Patrician of Naples, Duke of Guardia Lombarda, Count of Sinopoli, Marquis of Licodia, Count of Nicotera and Baron of Calanna and of Crispano. Among her ancestors figure Gilbert du Motier, marquis de Lafayette the hero of American Independence.Princess Paola Ruffo di Calabria married HRH Prince Albert, Prince of Liège, in Brussels, Belgium, on July 2, 1959. The couple have three children:Philippe, Duke of Brabant who married Countess Mathilde d'Udekem d'AcozAstrid who married Lorenz, Archduke of Austria-Este;Laurent, who married Claire Louise Coombs.Queen Paola speaks fluent Italian, French, English and German. Some people criticize her inability to speak Dutch, the mother tongue of nearly 60% of Belgians.TitlesDonna Paola Princess Ruffo di Calabria (1937-1959)  She was Princess Ruffo di Calabria prior to marriage. Her father had received the title of prince in the Italian nobility in 1928 from King Victor Emmanuel III. http://www.monarchie.be/en/family/paola/cv.html&lt;/ref&gt;Her Royal Highness The Princess of Liège (1959-1993)Her Majesty The Queen of The Belgians (1993-present)Gallery  Image:20050221-1 p44490-159webjpg-515h.jpg|Queen Paola with George W. Bush, Albert II of Belgium, and Laura Bush Image:George_W._Bush_John_Paul_II_funeral.jpg|Queen Paola with Albert II of Belgium, Prince Henrik of Denmark, Bernadette Chirac, President Jorge Sampaio of Portugal, George W. Bush and Laura Bush, President Arnold Rüütel of Estonia, and President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo of the Philippines at the funeral of John Paul II. See alsoQueen Paola FoundationThe Queen's CharitiesReferences and notesExternal linksPrincely House of RuffoRoyal House of BelgiumHer Majesty's official homepage (In English).Her Majesty's paternal ancestry: Ruffo di Scilla (in Italian).     Category:Current queens consort Paola Category:Italian nobility Category:1937 births Category:Living peopleCategory:Belgians of Italian descent Category:Knights Grand Cross of the Royal Norwegian Order of St. Olav Paola of Belgium, Queenar:الملكة باولا من بلجيكا bs:Paola, kraljica Belgijanaca ca:Paola Ruffo di Calàbria cs:Královna Paola de:Paola Ruffo di Calabria et:Paola (Belgia kuninganna) es:Paola Ruffo di Calabria fr:Paola Ruffo di Calabria it:Paola Ruffo di Calabria hu:Paula belga királyné nl:Paola Ruffo di Calabria ja:パオラ・ルッフォ・ディ・カラブリア no:Paola Ruffo di Calabria pl:Paola (królowa Belgii) pt:Paola da Bélgica sv:Paola av Belgien