Article 2 Agenda of meetings 1.
The items to appear on the provisional agenda shall be those for which documentation has been transmitted to the Secretariat of the Council in time to be forwarded to the members of the Council and to the members of the ACP-EC Committee of Ambassadors, hereinafter referred to as the "Committee", at least 21 days before the beginning of the meeting. 2.
The provisional agenda may be divided into Part A, Part B and Part C.
Items entered in Part B are those matters which need to be discussed by the Council before they are approved.
Article 3 Proceedings 1.
Article 4 Written procedures The Council may decide to take decisions by correspondence on urgent matters.
Article 5 Committees and Working Parties The Council may set up committees or working parties to carry out work it considers necessary, and in particular to prepare its proceedings where appropriate on areas of cooperation or specific aspects of the Partnership.
Article 6 Ministerial subgroups Without prejudice to the provisions of Article 5, the Council may, in the course of its meetings, delegate the preparation of its proceedings and conclusions on specific items on the agenda to subgroups of ministers composed on a parity basis.
Article 7 Ministerial Committees 1.
In accordance with Article 83 of the ACP-EC Agreement, the ACP-EC Development Finance Cooperation Committee is hereby set up.
The Council shall examine trade policy issues and reports by the Joint ACP-EC Ministerial Trade Committee set up by Article 38 of the ACP-EC Agreement.
Article 8 States attending with observer status 1.
They may in this case be authorised to take part in Council debates. 2.
Article 9 Confidentiality and official publications 1.
Access to meetings of the Council shall require a pass. 2.
Article 10 Dialogue with non-governmental actors 1.
Article 11 Regional and sub-regional organisations ACP regional and sub-regional organisations may be represented at meetings of the Council and the Committee as observers, subject to prior agreement by the Council.
Article 13 Documentation Unless decided otherwise, the Council shall conduct its deliberations on the basis of documents drafted in the official languages of the parties.
Article 14 Form of acts 1.
Article 15 Presidency The Office of President of the Council shall be held alternately as follows: - from 1 April to 30 September by a member of the Government of an ACP State, - from 1 October to 31 March by a member of the Council of the European Union.
Article 16 The Committee 1.
The Council may delegate some of its powers to the Committee in accordance with Article 15(4) of the ACP-EC Agreement. 2.
Article 17 Participation in the Joint Parliamentary Assembly When the Council attends meetings of the Joint Parliamentary Assembly it shall be represented by its President.
Article 18 Consistency in Community policies and impact on the implementation of the ACP-EC Agreement 1.
When the ACP States request consultations pursuant to Article 12 of the ACP-EC Agreement, such consultations shall be held promptly, as a general rule within 15 days of the request. 2.
Article 19 Secretariat The Secretariat of the Council and of the Committee, shall be run jointly by two secretaries.
Correspondence intended for the Council shall be sent to the President thereof at the seat of the Council Secretariat.
Done at Brussels, 8 March 2005.
For the ACP-EC Council of Ministers The President J.
