SECTION I READMISSION OBLIGATIONS BY SRI LANKA Article 2 Readmission of own nationals 1.
If Sri Lanka has not acknowledged receipt of the request of a Member State within 30 calendar days, it shall be deemed to accept the use of the common provisional travel document for return purposes, which is attached as Annex 7 to this Agreement.
Article 3 Readmission of third-country nationals and stateless persons 1.
If Sri Lanka has not acknowledged receipt of the request of a Member State within 30 calendar days, it shall be deemed to accept the use of the common provisional travel document for return purposes, which is attached as Annex 7 to this Agreement.
SECTION II READMISSION OBLIGATIONS BY THE COMMUNITY Article 4 Readmission of own nationals 1.
If the Member State concerned has not acknowledged receipt of the request of Sri Lanka within 30 calendar days, it shall be deemed to accept the use of the common provisional travel document for return purposes, which is attached as Annex 7 to this Agreement.
Article 5 Readmission of third-country nationals and stateless persons 1.
A person comes directly from the territory of the requested Member State within the meaning of this subparagraph if he or she arrived in Sri Lanka by air or ship without having entered another country in-between. 2.
The readmission obligation in paragraph 1 shall not apply if: (a) the third country national or stateless person has only been in airside transit via an international airport of the requested Member State; or (b) Sri Lanka has issued, to the third country national or stateless person, a visa or residence authorisation before or after entering its territory, unless that person is in possession of a visa or residence permit, issued by the requested Member State, which has a longer period of validity. 3.
If two or more Member States issued a visa or residence authorisation, the readmission obligation in paragraph 1 is for the Member State that issued the document with a longer period of validity or, if one or several of them have already expired, the document that is still valid.
If the Member State concerned has not acknowledged receipt of the request of Sri Lanka within 30 calendar days, it shall be deemed to accept the use of the common provisional travel document for return purposes, which is attached as Annex 7 to this Agreement.
SECTION III READMISSION PROCEDURE Article 6 Principle 1.
Subject to paragraph 2, any transfer of a person to be readmitted on the basis of one of the obligations contained in Articles 2 to 5 shall require the submission of a readmission application to the competent authority of the requested State. 2.
Article 7 Readmission application 1.
A common form to be used for readmission applications is attached as Annex 5 to this Agreement.
Article 8 Means of evidence regarding nationality 1.
Proof of nationality pursuant to Articles 2(1) and 4(1) can, in particular, be provided through the documents listed in Annex 1 to this Agreement, even if their period of validity has expired.
Prima facie evidence of nationality pursuant to Articles 2(1) and 4(1) can, in particular, be provided through the documents listed in Annex 2 to this Agreement, even if their period of validity has expired.
Save in the case of availability of authentic documents as listed in Annex 1, the competent diplomatic representation of Sri Lanka or the Member State concerned may, whenever necessary and upon request, make arrangements to interview the person to be readmitted without undue delay in order to establish his or her nationality.
Article 9 Means of evidence regarding third-country nationals and stateless persons 1.
Article 10 Time limits 1.
Article 11 Transfer modalities and modes of transportation 1.
SECTION IV TRANSIT OPERATIONS Article 12 Principles 1.
Article 13 Transit procedure 1.
A common form to be used for transit applications is attached as Annex 6 to this Agreement. 2.
SECTION V COSTS Article 14 Transport and transit costs Without prejudice to the right of the competent authorities to recover the costs associated with the readmission from the person to be readmitted or third parties, all transport costs incurred in connection with readmission and transit operations pursuant to this Agreement as far as the border of the State of final destination shall be borne by the requesting State.
SECTION VI DATA PROTECTION AND NON-AFFECTION CLAUSE Article 15 Data protection The communication of personal data shall only take place if such communication is necessary for the implementation of this Agreement by the competent authorities of Sri Lanka or a Member State as the case may be.
Article 16 Non-affection clause 1.
SECTION VII IMPLEMENTATION AND APPLICATION Article 17 Joint Readmission Committee 1.
Article 18 Implementing Protocols 1.
Sri Lanka and a Member State may draw up implementing Protocols which shall cover rules on: (a) the designation of the competent authorities, the border crossing points and the exchange of contact points; (b) the conditions for escorted returns, including the transit of third-country nationals and stateless persons under escort; (c) means and documents additional to those listed in the Annexes 1 to 4 to this Agreement. 2.
The implementing Protocols referred to in paragraph 1 will enter into force only after the Joint Readmission Committee (Article 17) has been notified. 3.
Article 19 Relation to bilateral readmission agreements or arrangements of Member States The provisions of this Agreement shall take precedence over the provisions of any bilateral agreement or arrangement on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation which have been or may, under Article 18, be concluded between individual Member States and Sri Lanka, in so far as the provisions of the latter are incompatible with those of this Agreement.
SECTION VIII FINAL PROVISIONS Article 20 Territorial application 1.
Subject to paragraph 2, this Agreement shall apply to the territory in which the Treaty establishing the European Community is applicable and to the territory of Sri Lanka. 2.
Article 21 Entry into force, duration and termination 1.
This Agreement shall be ratified or approved by the Contracting Parties in accordance with their respective procedures. 2.
This Agreement is concluded for an unlimited period. 4.
Article 22 Annexes Annexes 1 to 7 shall form an integral part of this Agreement.
In such circumstances it is considered appropriate that Sri Lanka and Denmark should conclude a readmission agreement on the same terms as this Agreement. -------------------------------------------------- JOINT DECLARATION CONCERNING ICELAND AND NORWAY The Contracting Parties take note of the close relationship between the European Community and Iceland and Norway, particularly by virtue of the Agreement of 18 May 1999 concerning the association of these countries with the implementation, application and development of the Schengen acquis.
