TITLE II CUSTOMS COOPERATION Article 2 Scope of the cooperation 1.
Article 3 Technical assistance to third countries The Contracting Parties shall, where appropriate, inform each other on actions undertaken, or to be undertaken, with third countries in relation to technical assistance in the customs field, with the aim of improving these actions.
Article 4 Simplification and harmonization The Contracting Parties agree to strive for simplification and harmonisation of their customs procedures, taking into account the work done in this connection by international organisations.
Article 5 Exchange of personnel The customs authorities may exchange personnel when mutually beneficial, for the purpose of advancing their understanding of each other's customs techniques and procedures, and computerised systems.
Article 6 Computerization The Contracting Parties shall cooperate in the computerization of customs procedures and formalities, with the aim of facilitating trade between them.
TITLE III MUTUAL ASSISTANCE Article 7 Scope of assistance 1.
Article 8 Information on methods, trends and operations 1.
Article 10 Spontaneous assistance In serious cases that could involve substantial damage to the economy, public health, public security or any other vital interest of one Contracting Party, the customs authority of the other Contracting Party shall, to the extent possible, supply information on its own initiative.
Article 12 Experts and witnesses 1.
Requests pursuant to paragraph 1 must indicate specifically on what matters and by virtue of what title or qualification the official will be questioned.
Article 13 Communication of requests 1.
Article 14 Execution of requests 1.
Article 15 Duties of officials 1.
Article 16 Confidentiality of information 1.
Paragraph 2 shall not impede the use of information in any judicial or administrative proceedings subsequently instituted for failure to comply with customs legislation.
Article 17 Exceptions to the obligation to provide assistance 1.
Article 18 Costs 1.
TITLE IV FINAL PROVISIONS Article 19 Implementation of the Agreement 1.
The customs authorities shall decide on detailed arrangements to facilitate the implementation of this Agreement. 4.
Article 20 Joint Customs Cooperation Committee 1.
Article 21 Obligations imposed under other agreements 1.
Article 22 Territorial application This Agreement shall apply, on the one hand, to the territories in which the Treaty establishing the European Community is applied and under the conditions laid down in that Treaty and, on the other hand, to the territory of Canada under the conditions laid down in Canadian law.
Article 23 Future developments The Contracting Parties may by mutual consent expand this Agreement with a view to increasing the levels of customs cooperation and supplementing them, in accordance with their respective customs legislation, by means of agreements on specific sectors or matters.
Article 24 Entry into force and termination 1.
Por la Comunidad Europea For Det Europæiske Fællesskab Für die Europäische Gemeinschaft Ãéá ôçí ÅõñùðáúêÞ Êïéíüôçôá For the European Community Pour la Communauté européenne Per la Comunità europea Voor de Europese Gemeenschap Pela Comunidade Europeia Euroopan yhteisön puolesta På Europeiska gemenskapens vägnar %gt%REFERENCE TO A FILM%gt% For the Government of Canada Pour le gouvernement du Canada %gt%REFERENCE TO A FILM%gt%
