International Natural Rubber Agreement, 1995 INTERNATIONAL NATURAL RUBBER AGREEMENT, 1995 (Translation) INTERNATIONAL NATURAL RUBBER AGREEMENT, 1995 CONTENTS Page Preamble . 6 CHAPTER I OBJECTIVES . 6 Article 1 Objectives . 6 CHAPTER II DEFINITIONS . 7 Article 2 Definitions . 7 CHAPTER III ORGANIZATION AND ADMINISTRATION . 8 Article 3 Establishment, headquarters and structure of the International Natural Rubber Organization. 8 Article 4 Membership in the Organization . 8 Article 5 Membership by intergovernmental organizations . 8 CHAPTER IV THE INTERNATIONAL NATURAL RUBBER COUNCIL . 8 Article 6 Composition of the International Natural Rubber Council . 8 Article 7 Powers and functions of the Council . 8 Article 8 Delegation of powers . 9 Article 9 Cooperation with other organizations . 9 Article 10 Admission of observers . 9 Article 11 Chairman and Vice-Chairman . 9 Article 12 Executive Director, Deputy Executive Director, Buffer Stock, Manager and other staff . 9 Article 13 Sessions . 10 Article 14 Distribution of votes . 10 Article 15 Voting procedure . 11 Article 16 Quorum . 11 Article 17 Decisions . 11 Article 18 Establishment of committees . 11 Article 19 Panel of experts . 11 CHAPTER V PRIVILEGES AND IMMUNITIES . 12 Article 20 Privileges and immunities . 12 CHAPTER VI ACCOUNTS AND AUDIT . 12 Article 21 Financial accounts . 12 Article 22 Form of payment . 12 Article 23 Audit . 12 CHAPTER VII THE ADMINISTRATIVE ACCOUNT . 13 Article 24 Approval of the administrative budget and assessment of contributions . 13 Article 25 Payment of contributions to the administrative budget . 13 CHAPTER VIII THE BUFFER STOCK . 14 Article 26 Size of the Buffer Stock . 14 Article 27 Financing of the Buffer Stock . 14 Article 28 Payment of contributions to the Buffer Stock Account . 14 Article 29 Price range . 15 Article 30 Operation of the Buffer Stock . 15 Article 31 Review and revision of the price range . 16 Article 32 Market indicator price . 17 Article 33 Composition of Buffer Stocks . 18 Article 34 Location of Buffer Stocks . 18 Article 35 Maintaining the quality of the Buffer Stocks . 18 Article 36 Restriction or suspension of Buffer Stock operations . 18 Article 37 Penalties relating to Contributions to the Buffer Stock Account . 19 Article 38 Adjustment of contributions to the Buffer Stock Account . 19 Article 39 The Buffer Stock and changes in exchange rates . 20 Article 40 Liquidation procedures for the Buffer Stock Account . 20 CHAPTER IX RELATIONSHIP WITH THE COMMON FUND FOR COMMODITIES . 21 Article 41 Relationship with the Common Fund for Commodities . 21 CHAPTER X SUPPLY AND MARKET ACCESS AND OTHER MEASURES . 22 Article 42 Supply and market access . 22 Article 43 Other measures . 22 CHAPTER XI CONSULTATION ON DOMESTIC POLICIES . 22 Article 44 Consultation . 22 CHAPTER XII STATISTICS, STUDIES AND INFORMATION . 23 Article 45 Statistics and information . 23 Article 46 Annual assessment, estimates and studies . 23 Article 47 Annual review . 23 CHAPTER XIII MISCELLANEOUS . 23 Article 48 General obligations and liabilities of members . 23 Article 49 Obstacles to trade . 24 Article 50 Transportation and market structure of natural rubber . 24 Article 51 Differential and remedial measures . 24 Article 52 Relief from obligations . 24 Article 53 Fair labour standards . 24 Article 54 Environmental aspects . 24 CHAPTER XIV COMPLAINTS AND DISPUTES . 24 Article 55 Complaints . 24 Article 56 Disputes . 25 CHAPTER XV FINAL PROVISIONS . 25 Article 57 Signature . 25 Article 58 Depositary . 25 Article 59 Ratification, acceptance and approval . 25 Article 60 Notification of provisional application . 25 Article 61 Entry into force . 26 Article 62 Accession . 26 Article 63 Amendments . 26 Article 64 Withdrawal . 27 Article 65 Exclusion . 27 Article 66 Settlement of accounts with withdrawing or excluded members or members unable to accept an amendment . 27 Article 67 Duration, extension and termination . 28 Article 68 Reservations . 28 ANNEXES ANNEX A Shares of individual exporting countries in total net exports of countries, as established for the purposes of Article 61 . 29 ANNEX B Shares of individual importing countries and groups of countries in total net imports of countries, as established for the purposes of Article 61. 30 ANNEX C Cost of the Buffer Stock as estimated by the President of the United Nations Conference on Natural Rubber, 1994 . 31 PREAMBLE THE CONTRACTING PARTIES, RECALLING the Declaration and the Programme of Action on the Establishment of a New International Economic Order (1), RECOGNIZING in particular the importance of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development resolutions 93 (IV) and 124 (V) and resolution 155 (VI) on the Integrated Programme for Commodities; the Cartagena Commitment and the relevant objectives contained in 'The Spirit of Cartagena` adopted by the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, RECOGNIZING the importance of natural rubber to the economies of members, particularly to the exports of exporting members and to supply requirements of importing members, RECOGNIZING further that the stabilization of natural rubber prices is in the interests of producers, consumers and natural rubber markets, and that an international natural rubber agreement can significantly assist the growth and development of the natural rubber industry to the benefit of both producers and consumers, HAVE AGREED AS FOLLOWS: CHAPTER I OBJECTIVES Article 1 Objectives The objectives of the International Natural Rubber Agreement, 1995 (hereinafter referred to as 'this Agreement`), in the light of the resolution 93 (IV) of the 'New Partnership for Development: the Cartagena Commitment`, and the relevant objectives contained in 'The Spirit of Cartagena` adopted by the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, are inter alia as follows: (a) To achieve a balanced growth between the supply of and demand for natural rubber, thereby helping to alleviate the serious difficulties arising from surpluses or shortages of natural rubber; (b) To achieve stable conditions in natural rubber trade through avoiding excessive natural rubber price fluctuations, which adversely affect the long-term interests of both producers and consumers, and stabilizing these prices without distorting long-term market trends, in the interests of producers and consumers; (c) To help stabilize the export earnings from natural rubber of exporting members, and to increase their earnings based on expanding natural rubber export volumes at fair and remunerative prices, thereby helping to provide the necessary incentives for a dynamic and rising rate of production and the resources for accelerated economic growth and social development; (d) To seek to ensure adequate supplies of natural rubber to meet the requirements of importing members at fair and reasonable prices and to improve the reliability and continuity of these supplies; (e) To take feasible steps in the event of a surplus or shortage of natural rubber to mitigate the economic difficulties that members might encounter; (f) To seek to expand international trade in and to improve market access for natural rubber and processed products thereof; (g) To improve the competitiveness of natural rubber by encouraging research and development on the problems of natural rubber; (h) To encourage the efficient development of the natural rubber economy by seeking to facilitate and promote improvements in the processing, marketing and distribution of raw natural rubber; and (i) To further international cooperation in and consultations on natural rubber matters affecting supply and demand, and to facilitate promotion and coordination of natural rubber research, assistance and other programmes.
CHAPTER II DEFINITIONS Article 2 Definitions For the purposes of this Agreement: 1. 'natural rubber` means the unvulcanized elastomer, whether in solid or liquid forms, from Hevea brasiliensis and any other plant which the Council may decide for the purposes of this Agreement; 2. 'contracting party` means a Government, or an intergovernmental organization referred to in Article 5, which has consented to be bound by this Agreement provisionally or definitively; 3. 'Member` means a contracting party as defined in definition 2 above; 4. 'exporting member` means a member which exports natural rubber and has declared itself to be an exporting member, subject to the agreement of the Council; 5. 'importing member` means a member which imports natural rubber and has declared itself to be an importing member, subject to the agreement of the Council; 6. 'Organization` means the International Natural Rubber Organization referred to in Article 3; 7. 'Council` means the International Natural Rubber Council, referred to in Article 6; 8. 'special vote` means a vote requiring at least two-thirds of the votes cast by exporting members present and voting and at least two-thirds of the votes cast by importing members present and voting, counted separately, on condition that these votes are cast by at least half the members in each category present and voting; 9. 'exports of natural rubber` means any natural rubber which leaves the customs territory of any member, and 'imports of natural rubber` means any natural rubber which enters the domestic commerce in the customs territory of any member, provided that for the purposes of these definitions, customs territory shall, in the case of a member which comprises more than one customs territory, be deemed to refer to the combined customs territories of that member; 10. 'distributed simple majority vote` means a vote requiring more than half of the total votes of exporting members present and voting and more than half of the total votes of importing members present and voting, counted separately; 11. 'freely usable currencies` means the Deutsche mark, the French franc, the Japanese yen, the pound sterling, and the United States dollar; 12. 'financial year` means the period from 1 January to 31 December inclusive; 13. 'entry into force` means the date on which this Agreement enters into force provisionally or definitively in accordance with Article 61; 14. 'tonne` means a metric ton, i.e. 1 000 kilogrammes; 15. 'Malaysian/Singapore cent` means the average of the Malaysian sen and the Singapore cent at the prevailing rates of exchange; 16. 'time-weighted net contribution of a member` means its net cash contributions weighted by the number of days during which the constituent parts of the net cash contribution have stayed at the disposition of the Buffer Stock.
CHAPTER III ORGANIZATION AND ADMINISTRATION Article 3 Establishment, headquarters and structure of the International Natural Rubber Organization 1.
The Organization shall function through the International Natural Rubber Council, its Executive Director and its staff, and such other bodies as are provided for in this Agreement. 3.
Subject to the requirement in paragraph 4 of this Article, the headquarters of the Organization shall be in Kuala Lumpur, unless the Council, by special vote, decides otherwise. 4.
Article 4 Membership in the Organization 1.
Each contracting party shall constitute a single member of the Organization.
Article 5 Membership by intergovernmental organizations 1.
CHAPTER IV THE INTERNATIONAL NATURAL RUBBER COUNCIL Article 6 Composition of the International Natural Rubber Council 1.
Article 7 Powers and functions of the Council 1.
In particular, it shall not have the capacity to borrow money, without, however, limiting the application of Article 41, nor shall it enter into any trading contract for natural rubber, except as provided for specifically in paragraph 5 of Article 30.
Article 8 Delegation of powers 1.
The Council may, by special vote, delegate to any committee established under Article 18 the exercise of any or all of its powers which, in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, do not require a special vote of the Council.
The Council may, by special vote, revoke any power delegated to a committee.
Article 9 Cooperation with other organizations 1.
Article 10 Admission of observers The Council may invite any non-member Government, or any of the organizations referred to in Article 9, to attend as an observer any of the meetings of the Council or of any committee established under Article 18.
Article 11 Chairman and Vice-Chairman 1.
Neither the Chairman nor any other officer presiding at a meeting of the Council shall vote at that meeting.
The voting rights of the member he represents may, however, be exercised in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3 of Article 6, or paragraphs 2 and 3 of Article 15.
Article 12 Executive Director, Deputy Executive Director, Buffer Stock Manager and other staff 1.
The Deputy Executive Director shall at all times be responsible to the Executive Director.
The Deputy Executive Director shall be involved in all matters pertaining to the Agreement. 5.
The staff shall be responsible to the Executive Director. 7.
As a general rule, the Council shall hold one regular session in each half of the year. 2.
In addition to sessions in circumstances specifically provided for in this Agreement, the Council shall also meet in special session whenever it so decides or at the request of: (a) the Chairman of the Council; (b) the Executive Director; (c) a majority of the exporting members; (d) a majority of the importing members; (e) an exporting member or exporting members holding at least 200 votes; or (f) an importing member or importing members holding at least 200 votes. 3.
Sessions shall be held at the headquarters of the Organization, unless the Council, by special vote, decides otherwise.
Article 14 Distribution of votes 1.
The exporting members shall together hold 1 000 votes and the importing members shall together hold 1 000 votes. 2.
Each exporting member shall receive one initial vote out of the 1 000 votes except that in the case of an exporting member with net exports of less than 10 000 tonnes annually the initial vote shall not apply.
For the purposes of paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Article, paragraphs 2 and 3 of Article 27 relating to contributions of importing members, and Article 38, the Council shall, at its first session, establish a table of net exports of exporting members and a table of net imports of importing members which shall be revised annually in accordance with this Article. 5.
Such distribution shall remain in effect until the first regular session of the following year, except as provided for in paragraph 7 of this Article. 7.
In the event of the exclusion of a member pursuant to Article 65, or the withdrawal of a member pursuant to Article 64 or Article 63, resulting in the reduction of the total trade share of those members remaining in either category below 80 per cent, the Council shall meet and decide on the terms, conditions and future of this Agreement, including in particular the need to maintain effective buffer stock operations without causing undue financial burden to the remaining members.
Article 15 Voting procedure 1.
The quorum for any meeting of the Council shall be the presence of a majority of exporting members and a majority of importing members, provided that such members hold at least two-thirds of the total votes in their respective categories. 2.
If there is no quorum in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Article on the day fixed for the meeting and on the following day, the quorum on the third day and thereafter shall be the presence of a majority of exporting members and a majority of importing members, provided that such members hold a majority of the total votes in their respective categories. 3.
Article 17 Decisions 1.
All decisions of the Council shall be taken and all recommendations shall be made by distributed simple majority vote, unless otherwise provided for in this Agreement. 2.
Where a member avails itself of the provisions of Article 15 and its votes are cast at a meeting of the Council, such member shall, for the purposes of paragraph 1 of this Article, be considered as present and voting.
Article 18 Establishment of committees 1.
The following committees established by the International Natural Rubber Agreement, 1979, shall continue in being: (a) Committee on Administration; (b) Committee on Buffer Stock Operations; (c) Committee on Statistics; and (d) Committee on Other Measures.
Additional committees may also be established by special vote of the Council. 2.
Article 19 Panel of experts 1.
CHAPTER V PRIVILEGES AND IMMUNITIES Article 20 Privileges and immunities 1.
In particular, but without prejudice to the provisions of paragraph 4 of Article 48, the Organization shall have the capacity to contract, to acquire and dispose of movable and immovable property, and to institute legal proceedings. 2.
The Headquarters Agreement shall be independent of this Agreement.
CHAPTER VI ACCOUNTS AND AUDIT Article 21 Financial accounts 1.
Article 22 Form of payment Payments to the Administrative and Buffer Stock Accounts shall be made in freely usable currencies or currencies which are convertible in the major foreign exchange markets into freely usable currencies, and shall be exempt from foreign exchange restrictions.
The Council shall assess the contribution of each member to that budget in accordance with paragraph 2 of this Article. 2.
Article 25 Payment of contribution to the administrative budget 1.
Contributions to subsequent administrative budgets shall become due by 28 February in each financial year.
The initial contribution of a Government which becomes a member after the entry into force of this Agreement, assessed in accordance with paragraph 3 of Article 24, shall, for the financial year concerned, become due 60 days after the date on which it becomes a member. 2.
If a member has not paid its full contribution to the administrative budget within two months after such contribution becomes due in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Article, the Executive Director shall request that member to make payment as quickly as possible.
If a member has still not paid its contribution within four months after such request by the Executive Director, all rights of that member under this Agreement shall be suspended by the Council, unless the Council, by special vote, decides otherwise. 3.
The Council may waive such penalty charge up to 31 March of the same financial year on request from a member if, because of its internal laws and regulations, it is not able to pay the contributions to the administrative budget by the due date, in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Article. 4.
The Buffer Stock shall comprise: (a) the normal Buffer Stock of 400 000 tonnes; and (b) the contingency Buffer Stock of 150 000 tonnes.
Article 27 Financing of the Buffer Stock 1.
Members commit themselves to finance the total cost of the international Buffer Stock of 550 000 tonnes established under Article 26, it being understood that shares in the Buffer Stock Account of the International Natural Rubber Agreement, 1987, of those members of the International Natural Rubber Agreement, 1987, which became members of this Agreement shall, with the consent of each member, be carried over to the Buffer Stock Account under this Agreement in accordance with the procedures determined under the provisions of paragraph 3 of Article 40 of the International Natural Rubber Agreement, 1987. 2.
Contributions of members to the Buffer Stock Account shall be apportioned according to their shares of the votes in the Council, except as provided for in paragraphs 3 and 4 of this Article. 3.
Any importing member whose share of total net imports as set out in the table to be established by the Council under paragraph 4 of Article 14 represents 0,1 per cent or less of total net imports shall contribute to the Buffer Stock Account as follows: (a) if its share of total net imports is less than or equal to 0,1 per cent but more than 0,05 per cent, such member shall contribute an amount assessed on the basis of its actual share of total net imports; (b) if its share of total net imports is 0,05 per cent or less, such member shall contribute an amount assessed on the basis of a share of 0,05 per cent of total net imports. 4.
During any period in which this Agreement is in force provisionally either under paragraph 2 or subparagraph (b) of paragraph 4 of Article 61, the financial commitment of each exporting or importing member to the Buffer Stock Account shall not in total exceed that member's contribution, calculated on the basis of the number of votes corresponding to the percentage shares set out in the tables to be established by the Council under paragraph 4 of Article 14, of the totals of 275 000 tonnes falling to the exporting and importing categories of members respectively.
The financial obligations of members when this Agreement is in force provisionally shall be shared equally by exporting and importing categories of members.
At any time when the aggregate commitment of one category exceeds that of the other, the larger of the two aggregates shall be brought equal to the smaller of the two aggregates, each member's vote in that aggregate being reduced in proportion to the shares of votes derived from the tables to be established by the Council under paragraph 4 of Article 14.
Notwithstanding the provisions of this paragraph and of paragraph 1 of Article 28, a member's contribution may not exceed 125 per cent of the amount of its total contribution calculated on the basis of its share in world trade as indicated in Annex A or Annex B to this Agreement. 5.
The total costs of the normal and contingency Buffer Stock of 550 000 tonnes shall be financed by contributions by members in cash to the Buffer Stock Account.
Such costs shall include all expenses involved in acquiring and operating the 550 000-tonne international Buffer Stock.
Article 28 Payment of contributions to the Buffer Stock Account 1.
There shall be an initial contribution in cash to the Buffer Stock Account equivalent to 70 million Malaysian ringgit.
This amount, which represents a working capital reserve for Buffer Stock operations, shall be apportioned among all members according to their percentage shares of votes, taking into consideration paragraph 3 of Article 27, and shall be due within 60 days after the first Council session after the entry into force of this Agreement.
The Executive Director may at any time, and independently of the arrangements in paragraph 1 of this Article, call for contributions provided that the Buffer Stock Manager has certified that the Buffer Stock Account may require such funds in the next four months. 3.
Contributions called up for the normal and the contingency Buffer Stock shall be valued at the lower trigger action price in effect at the time such contributions are called. 5.
The call up of contributions to the contingency Buffer Stock shall be handled as follows: (a) at the 300 000-tonne review provided for in Article 31, the Council shall make all financial and other arrangements which may be necessary for the prompt implementation of the contingency Buffer Stock including call up of funds if necessary; (b) if the Council by special vote under Article 30, paragraph 2 decides to bring the contingency Buffer Stock into operation, then the Council shall ensure that: (i) all members have made all necessary arrangements for financing their respective shares of the contingency Buffer Stock; and (ii) the contingency Buffer Stock has been invoked and is fully primed for action in accordance with the terms of Article 30.
Article 29 Price range 1.
There shall be an upper intervention price and a lower intervention price calculated respectively at plus and minus 15 per cent of the reference price, unless the Council, by special vote, decides otherwise. 4.
There shall be an upper trigger action price and a lower trigger action price calculated respectively at plus and minus 20 per cent of the reference price, unless the Council, by special vote, decides otherwise. 5.
Article 30 Operation of the Buffer Stock 1.
If, in relation to the price range provided for in Article 29, or as subsequently revised in accordance with the provisions of Articles 31 and 39, the market indicator price provided for in Article 32 is: (a) at or above the upper trigger action price, the Buffer Stock Manager shall defend the upper trigger action price by offering natural rubber for sale until the market indicator price falls below the upper trigger action price; (b) above the upper intervention price, the Buffer Stock Manager may sell natural rubber in defence of the upper trigger action price; (c) at the upper or lower intervention price, or between them, the Buffer Stock Manager shall neither buy nor sell natural rubber, except in order to carry out his responsibilities for rotation under Article 35; (d) below the lower intervention price, the Buffer Stock Manager may buy natural rubber in defence of the lower trigger action price; (e) at or below the lower trigger action price, the Buffer Stock Manager shall defend the lower trigger action price by offering to buy natural rubber until the market indicator price exceeds the lower trigger action price. 2.
Sales and purchases by the Buffer Stock Manager shall be effected through established commercial markets at prevailing prices, and all his transactions shall be in physical rubber available for shipment not later than one month after the end of the first quoted month in the market concerned, or for delivery in a consuming market during the delivery month or months normally corresponding to such shipment months in that market.
The information on the Buffer Stock Account's financial position shall also include interest rates on and terms and conditions of deposits, the currencies operated in and other relevant information on the items referred to in paragraph 2 of Article 21.
Article 31 Review and revision of the price range A.
Reference price 1.
Any review or revision of the reference price, including those following net changes in the Buffer Stock under paragraph 2 of this Article, shall be based on market trends.
Following a net change to the Buffer Stock of 100 000 tonnes since the last regular session of the Council, the Executive Director shall convene a special session of the Council to assess the situation.
The Council may, by special vote, decide to take appropriate measures which may include: (a) suspension of buffer stock operations; (b) change in the rate of buffer stock purchases or sales; and (c) revision of the reference price. 3.
If net buffer stock purchases or sales amounting to 300 000 tonnes have taken place since (a) the last revision under paragraph 3 of Article 31 of the International Natural Rubber Agreement, 1987, (b) the last revision under this paragraph, or (c) the last revision under paragraph 2 of this Article, whichever is most recent, the reference price shall be lowered or raised, respectively, by 3 per cent of its current level unless the Council, by special vote, decides to lower or raise it, respectively, by a higher percentage amount. 4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 29, paragraph 4, revision of the reference price shall not result in the trigger action price breaching the indicative price. 5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 31, paragraph 1 and Article 31, paragraph 3, revision of the reference price shall not result in the intervention price breaching the level at which the contingency Buffer Stock will be brought into operation under Article 30, paragraph 3.
Indicative prices 6.
The lower and upper indicative prices shall be reviewed: (a) 24 months after the last review pursuant to paragraph 7 (a) of Article 31 of the International Natural Rubber Agreement, 1987, or in the event that this Agreement enters into force after 1 May 1996, at the first session of the Council under this Agreement, and every 24 months thereafter; (b) In exceptional circumstances, at the request of a member or members accounting for 200 or more votes in the Council; and (c) When the reference price has been revised (i) downwards since the last revision of the lower indicative price or the entry into force of the International Natural Rubber Agreement, 1987, or (ii) upwards since the last revision of the upper indicative price or the entry into force of the International Natural Rubber Agreement, 1987, by at least 3 per cent under paragraph 3 of this Article and at least 5 per cent under paragraph 1 of this Article, or by at least this amount under paragraphs 1, 2 and/or 3 of this Article, provided that the average of the daily market indicator price for the 60 days subsequent to the last revision of the reference price is either below the lower intervention price or above the upper intervention price, respectively. 9.
Notwithstanding paragraphs 6, 7 and 8 of this Article, there shall be no upward revision in the lower or upper indicative price if the average of the daily market indicator prices over the six-month period prior to a review of the price range under this Article is below the reference price.
Similarly, there shall be no downward revision in the lower or upper indicative price if the average of the daily market indicator prices over the six-month period prior to a review of the price range under this Article is above the reference price.
Article 32 Market indicator price 1.
There shall be established a daily market indicator price which shall be a composite, weighted average - reflecting the market in natural rubber - of daily official prices as defined by the Council on the Kuala Lumpur, London, New York and Singapore markets, and such other established commercial markets as the Council may decide.
Article 34 Location of Buffer Stocks 1.
Article 36 Restriction or suspension of Buffer Stock operations 1.
Notwithstanding the provisions af Article 30, the Council, if in session, may, by special vote, restrict or suspend the operations of the Buffer Stock, if in its opinion the discharge of the obligations laid upon the Buffer Stock Manager by that Article will not achieve the objectives of this Agreement. 2.
If the Council is not in session, the Executive Director may, after consultation with the Chairman, restrict or suspend the operations of the Buffer Stock, if in his opinion the discharge of the obligations laid upon the Buffer Stock Manager by Article 30 will not achieve the objectives of this Agreement. 3.
Immediately after a decision to restrict or suspend the operations of the Buffer Stock under paragraph 2 of this Article, the Executive Director shall convene a session of the Council to review such decision.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4 of Article 13, the Council shall meet within 10 days after the date of restriction or suspension and shall, by special vote, confirm or cancel such restriction or suspension.
Article 37 Penalties relating to contributions to the Buffer Stock Account 1.
A member in arrears for 60 days or more shall not count as a member for the purpose of voting on matters covered in paragraph 2 of this Article. 2.
The voting and other rights in the Council of a member in arrears for 60 days or more under paragraph 1 of this Article shall be suspended, unless the Council, by special vote, decides otherwise. 3.
When the default has been remedied to the satisfaction of the Council, the voting and other rights of the member in arrears for 60 days or more shall be restored.
Article 38 Adjustment of contributions to the Buffer Stock Account 1.
If the Council, having regard to paragraphs 2 and 3 of Article 28, decides that there are net cash contributions in excess of funds required to support Buffer Stock operations within the next four months, the Council shall refund such excess net cash contributions less initial contributions unless it decides, by special vote, either to make no such refund or to refund a smaller amount.
If a member requests that its refund be retained in the Buffer Stock Account, this amount shall be credited against any additional contribution requested in accordance with Article 28.
Such payments by members or refunds to members shall be made within 60 days from the date the Executive Director issues such notification. 5.
In the event that the amount of cash in the Buffer Stock Account exceeds the value of total net cash contributions of members, such surplus funds shall be distributed upon termination of this Agreement.
Article 39 The Buffer Stock and changes in exchange rates 1.
Each member's share in the Buffer Stock Account shall be calculated as follows: (a) the value of the Buffer Stock shall be the value of the total quantity of natural rubber of each type/grade therein, calculated at the lowest of the current prices of the respective types/grades on markets referred to in Article 32 during the 30 market days preceding the date of termination of this Agreement; (b) the value of the Buffer Stock Account shall be the value of the Buffer Stock plus the cash assets of the Buffer Stock Account on the date of the termination of this Agreement less any amount reserved under paragraph 1 of this Article; (c) each member's net cash contribution shall be the sum of its contributions paid throughout the duration of this Agreement less all refunds made under Article 38; penalty interest on arrears paid in accordance with paragraph 3 of Article 37 shall not constitute a contribution to the Buffer Stock Account; (d) if the value of the Buffer Stock Account is either greater or less than total net cash contributions, the surplus shall be allocated among members in proportion to each member's time-weighted net contribution share under this Agreement.
If this Agreement terminates without being replaced by a new international natural rubber agreement which provides for a buffer stock, the Council shall, by special vote, adopt procedures to govern orderly disposal of the Buffer Stock within the maximum period specified in paragraph 6 of Article 67, subject to the following constraints: (a) no further purchases of natural rubber shall be made; (b) the Organization shall incur no new expenses except those necessary to dispose of the Buffer Stock. 5.
Subject to an election by any member to take natural rubber in accordance with paragraph 6 of this Article, any cash which remains in the Buffer Stock Account shall be forthwith distributed to members in proportion to their shares as determined in paragraph 2 of this Article. 6.
This adjustment shall account for: (a) any discrepancy between the price of natural rubber specified in subparagraph (a) of paragraph 2 of this Article and the prices at which part or all of the Buffer Stock is sold pursuant to procedures for disposal of the Buffer Stock; and (b) the difference between estimated and actual liquidation expenses. 8.
CHAPTER IX RELATIONSHIP WITH THE COMMON FUND FOR COMMODITIES Article 41 Relationship with the Common Fund for Commodities 1.
Article 43 Other measures 1.
CHAPTER XI CONSULTATION ON DOMESTIC POLICIES Article 44 Consultation The Council shall consult, at the request of any member, on government natural rubber policies directly affecting supply or demand.
CHAPTER XII STATISTICS, STUDIES AND INFORMATION Article 45 Statistics and information 1.
Article 46 Annual assessment, estimates and studies 1.
Article 47 Annual review The Council shall each year review the operation of this Agreement including conformity to its spirit and promotion of its objectives.
CHAPTER XIII MISCELLANEOUS Article 48 General obligations and liabilities of members 1.
Article 49 Obstacles to trade 1.
Article 50 Transportation and market structure of natural rubber The Council should encourage and facilitate the promotion of reasonable and equitable freight rates and improvements in the transport system, so as to provide regular supplies to markets and to effect savings in the cost of the products marketed.
Article 51 Differential and remedial measures Developing importing members, and least developed countries which are members, whose interests are adversely affected by measures taken under this Agreement, may apply to the Council for appropriate differential and remedial measures.
The Council shall consider taking such appropriate measures in accordance with paragraphs 3 and 4 of Section III of resolution 93 (IV) of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development.
Article 52 Relief from obligations 1.
Article 53 Fair labour standards Members declare that they will endeavour to maintain labour standards designed to improve the levels of living of workers in their respective natural rubber sectors.
Article 54 Environmental aspects Members shall endeavour to pay due attention to environmental aspects as agreed at the eighth session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development and the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, held in 1992.
CHAPTER XIV COMPLAINTS AND DISPUTES Article 55 Complaints 1.
Any decision by the Council that a member is in breach of its obligations under this Agreement shall specify the nature of the breach. 3.
Whenever the Council, whether as the result of a complaint or otherwise, finds that a member has committed a breach of this Agreement, it may, by special vote, and without prejudice to such other measures as are specifically provided for in other Articles of this Agreement: (a) suspend that member's voting rights in the Council and, if it deems necessary, suspend any other rights of such member, including those of holding office in the Council or in any committee established under Article 18 and of being eligible for membership of such committees, until it has fulfilled its obligations; or (b) take action under Article 65, if such breach significantly impairs the operation of this Agreement.
Article 56 Disputes 1.
CHAPTER XV FINAL PROVISIONS Article 57 Signature This Agreement shall be open for signature at United Nations Headquarters from 3 April 1995 to 28 December 1995 inclusive by the Governments invited to the United Nations Conference on Natural Rubber, 1994.
Article 58 Depositary The Secretary-General of the United Nations is hereby designated as the depositary of this Agreement.
Article 59 Ratification, acceptance and approval 1.
Each Government depositing an instrument of ratification, acceptance or approval shall, at the time of such deposit, declare itself to be an exporting member or an importing member.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article, a Government may provide in its notification of provisional application that it will apply this Agreement only within the limitations of its constitutional and/or legislative procedures and its domestic laws and regulations.
The provisional membership of a Government which notifies in this manner shall not exceed 12 months from the provisional entry into force of this Agreement, unless the Council decides otherwise pursuant to paragraph 2 of Article 59.
Article 61 Entry into force 1.
This Agreement shall enter into force definitively on 29 December 1995 or on any date thereafter, if by that date Governments accounting for at least 80 per cent of net exports as set out in Annex A to this Agreement, and Governments accounting for at least 80 per cent of net imports as set out in Annex B to this Agreement, have deposited their instruments of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession, or have assumed full financial commitment to this Agreement. 2.
This Agreement shall enter into force provisionally on 29 December 1995, or on any date before 1 January 1997, if Governments accounting for at least 75 per cent of net exports as set out in Annex A to this Agreement, and Governments accounting for at least 75 per cent of net imports as set out in Annex B to this Agreement, have deposited their instruments of ratification, acceptance or approval, or have notified the depositary under paragraph 1 of Article 60 that they will apply this Agreement provisionally and assume full financial commitment to this Agreement.
The Agreement shall remain in force provisionally up to a maximum of 12 months, unless it enters into force definitively under paragraph 1 of this Article or the Council decides otherwise in accordance with paragraph 4 of this Article. 3.
If this Agreement does not come into force provisionally under paragraph 2 of this Article by 1 January 1997, the Secretary-General of the United Nations shall invite, at the earliest time he considers practicable after that date, the Governments which have deposited instruments of ratification, acceptance or approval or have notified him that they will apply this Agreement provisionally, to meet with a view to recommending whether or not such Governments should take the necessary steps to put this Agreement provisionally or definitively into force among themselves in whole or in part.
If the requirements for definitive entry into force of this Agreement under paragraph 1 of this Article have not been met within 12 calendar months of the provisional entry into force of this Agreement under paragraph 2 of this Article, the Council shall, not later than one month before the end of the 12-month period mentioned above, review the future of this Agreement and, subject to paragraph 1 of this Article, by special vote, decide: (a) to put this Agreement definitively into force among the current members in whole or in part; (b) to keep this Agreement provisionally in force among the current members in whole or in part for an additional year; or (c) to renegotiate this Agreement.
Article 62 Accession 1.
Article 63 Amendments 1.
The Council may, by special vote, recommend amendments of this Agreement to the members. 2.
After the depositary informs the Council that the requirements for the amendment to become effective have been met, and notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Article relating to the date fixed by the Council, a member may still notify the depositary of its acceptance of the amendment, provided that such notification is made before the amendment becomes effective. 5.
If the requirements for the amendment to become effective have not been met by the date fixed by the Council in accordance with paragraph 2 of this Article, the amendment shall be considered withdrawn.
Article 64 Withdrawal 1.
Article 65 Exclusion If the Council decides that any member is in breach of its obligations under this Agreement and decides further that such breach significantly impairs the operation of this Agreement, it may, by special vote, exclude that member from this Agreement.
Article 66 Settlement of accounts with withdrawing or excluded members or members unable to accept an amendment 1.
In the event that the Buffer Stock Account is unable to settle the payment in cash due under subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of paragraph 3 of this Article without either undermining the viability of the Buffer Stock Account or leading to a call up of additional contributions from members to cover such refunds, payment shall be deferred until the requisite amount of natural rubber in the Buffer Stock can be sold at or above the upper intervention price.
Article 67 Duration, extension and termination 1.
This Agreement shall remain in force for a period of four years after its entry into force, unless extended under paragraph 3 or terminated under paragraph 4 or paragraph 5 of this Article. 2.
Before the expiry of the four-year period referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, the Council may, by special vote, decide to renegotiate this Agreement. 3.
The Council may, by special vote, extend this Agreement by a period or periods not exceeding two years in all, commencing from the date of expiry of the four year period specified in paragraph 1 of this Article. 4.
If a new international natural rubber agreement is negotiated and enters into force during any period of extension of this Agreement pursuant to paragraph 3 of this Article, this Agreement, as extended, shall terminate upon the entry into force of the new agreement. 5.
The Council may at any time, by special vote, decide to terminate this Agreement with effect from such date as it may determine. 6.
Notwithstanding the termination of this Agreement, the Council shall continue in being for a period not exceeding three years to carry out the liquidation of the Organization, including the settlement of accounts, and the disposal of assets in accordance with the provisions of Article 40 and subject to relevant decisions to be taken by special vote, and shall have during that period such powers and functions as may be necessary for these purposes. 7.
Article 68 Reservations No reservations may be made with respect to any of the provisions of this Agreement.
