Article 2 Status of personnel 1.
The status of personnel seconded to EUPOL "Proxima" by the Kingdom of Norway shall be governed by the agreement concluded on 11 December 2003 between the EU and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia on the status and activities of EUPOL "Proxima" in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. 2.
Article 3 Classified information 1.
Article 4 Personnel seconded to EUPOL "Proxima" 1.
The Kingdom of Norway shall ensure that its personnel seconded to EUPOL "Proxima" undertake their mission in conformity with: - the provisions of Joint Action 2003/681/CFSP and subsequent amendments as referred to in Article 1(1) of this Agreement; - the Operation Plan; - Implementing measures. 2.
Personnel seconded to EUPOL "Proxima" shall undergo a medical examination, vaccination and be certified medically fit for duty by a competent authority from the Kingdom of Norway.
Personnel seconded to EUPOL "Proxima" shall produce a copy of this certification. 4.
Personnel seconded by the Kingdom of Norway shall carry out their duties and conduct themselves solely with the interests of EUPOL "Proxima" in mind. 2.
National authorities shall transfer Operational Control (OPCON) to EUPOL "Proxima" Head of Mission/Police Commissioner, who shall exercise that command and control through a hierarchical structure of command and control. 4.
The Head of Mission/Police Commissioner shall lead EUPOL "Proxima" and assume its day-to-day management. 5.
EUPOL "Proxima" Head of Mission/Police Commissioner shall be responsible for disciplinary control over operation personnel.
NPCs shall report to the EUPOL "Proxima" Head of Mission/Police Commissioner on national matters and shall be responsible for day-to-day contingent discipline. 8.
Article 6 Financial aspects 1.
Article 7 Non-compliance Should one of the Parties fail to comply with its obligations laid down in the previous Articles, the other Party shall have the right to terminate this agreement by serving a notice of one month.
Article 8 Dispute settlement Disputes concerning the interpretation or application of this Agreement shall be settled by diplomatic means between the Parties.
Article 9 Entry into force 1.
Done at Brussels, 9 September 2004 in the English language in four copies.
For the European Union For the Kingdom of Norway -------------------------------------------------- [1] OJ L 249, 1.10.2003, p. 66. [2] OJ L 16, 23.1.2004, p. 65. [3] OJ L 101, 11.4.2001, p. 1.
