Agreement relating to the implementation of part XI of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea of 10 December 1982 /* Montego Bay Convention */ AGREEMENT relating to the implementation of Part XI of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea of 10 December 1982 THE STATES PARTIES TO THIS AGREEMENT, RECOGNISING the important contribution of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea of 10 December 1982 (hereinafter referred to as 'the Convention`) to the maintenance of peace, justice and progress for all peoples of the world, REAFFIRMING that the seabed and ocean floor and subsoil thereof, beyond the limits of national jurisdiction (hereinafter referred to as 'the area`), as well the resources of the area, are the common heritage of mankind, MINDFUL of the importance of the Convention for the protection and preservation of the marine environment and of the growing concern for the global environment, HAVING CONSIDERED the report of the Secretary-General of the United Nations on the results of the informal consultations among States held from 1990 to 1994 on outstanding issues relating to Part XI and related provisions of the Convention (hereinafter referred to as 'Part XI`), NOTING the political and economic changes, including market-oriented approaches, affecting the implementation of Part XI, WISHING to facilitate universal participation in the Convention, CONSIDERING that an agreement relating to the implementation of Part XI would best meet that objective, HAVE AGREED as follows: Article 1 Implementation of Part XI 1.
The States Parties to this Agreement undertake to implement Part XI in accordance with this Agreement. 2.
Article 2 Relationship between this Agreement and Part XI 1.
Articles 309 to 319 of the Convention shall apply to this Agreement as they apply to the Convention.
A State or entity referred to in Article 3 may express its consent to be bound by this Agreement by: (a) signature not subject to ratification, formal confirmation or the procedure set out in Article 5; (b) signature subject to ratification or formal confirmation, followed by ratification or formal confirmation; (c) signature subject to the procedure set out in Article 5; or (d) accession. 4.
Formal confirmation by the entities referred to in Article 305(1)(f) of the Convention shall be in accordance with Annex IX of the Convention. 5.
A State or entity which has deposited before the date of adoption of this Agreement an instrument of ratification or formal confirmation of or accession to the Convention and which has signed this Agreement in accordance with Article 4(3)(c) shall be considered to have established its consent to be bound by this Agreement 12 months after the date of its adoption, unless that State or entity notifies the depository in writing before that date that it is not availing itself of the simplified procedure set out in this article. 2.
Article 6 Entry into force 1.
If these conditions for entry into force are fulfilled before 16 November 1994, this Agreement shall enter into force on 16 November 1994. 2.
Article 7 Provisional application 1.
If, on 16 November 1994, this Agreement has not entered into force, it shall be applied provisionally pending its entry into force by: (a) States which have consented to its adoption in the General Assembly of the United Nations, except any such State which before 16 November 1994 notifies the depositary in writing either that it will not so apply this Agreement or that it will consent to such application only on subsequent signature or notification in writing; (b) States and entities which sign this Agreement, except any such State or entity which notifies the depositary in writing at the time of signature that it will not so apply this Agreement; (c) States and entities which consent to its provisional application by so notifying the depositary in writing; (d) States which accede to this Agreement. 2.
All such States and entities shall apply this Agreement provisionally in accordance with their national or internal laws and regulations, with effect from 16 November 1994 or the date of signature, notification of consent or accession, if later. 3.
In any event, provisional application shall terminate on 16 November 1998 if at that date the requirement in Article 6(1) of consent to be bound by this Agreement by at least seven of the States (of which at least five must be developed States) referred to in paragraph 1(a) of Resolution II has not been fulfilled.
Article 9 Depositary The Secretary-General of the United Nations shall be the depositary of this Agreement.
Article 10 Authentic texts The original of this Agreement, of which the Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian and Spanish texts are equally authentic, shall be deposited with the Secretary-General of the United Nations.
The processing of an application for approval of a plan of work for exploration shall be in accordance with the provisions of the Convention, including Annex III thereof, and this Agreement, and subject to the following: (i) a plan of work for exploration submitted on behalf of a State or entity, or any component of such entity, referred to in Resolution II(1)(a)(ii) or (iii), other than a registered pioneer investor, which had already undertaken substantial activities in the area prior to the entry into force of the Convention, or its success in interest, shall be considered to have met the financial and technical qualifications necessary for approval of a plan of work it the sponsoring State or States certify that the applicant has expended an amount equivalent to at least USD 30 million in research and exploration activities and has expended no less than 10 % of that amount in the location, survey and evaluation of the area referred to in the plan of work.
Section 3(11) of this Annex shall be interpreted and applied accordingly; (iii) in accordance with the principle of non-discrimination, a contract with a State or entity or any component of such entity referred to in subparagraph (a)(i) shall include arrangements which shall be similar to and no less favourable than those agreed with any registered pioneer investor referred to in subparagraph (a)(ii).
Designation of a reserved area for the Authority in accordance with Annex III, Article 8, of the Convention shall take place in connection with approval of an application for a plan of work for exploration or approval of an application for a plan of work for exploration and exploitation. 11.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 9, an approved plan of work for exploration which is sponsored by at least one State provisionally applying this Agreement shall terminate if such a State ceases to apply this Agreement provisionally and has not become a member on a provisional basis in accordance with paragraph 12 or has not become a State Party. 12.
On the entry into force of this Agreement, States and entities referred to in Article 3 of this Agreement which have been applying it provisionally in accordance with Article 7 and for which it is not in force may continue to be members of the Authority on a provisional basis pending its entry into force for such States and entities, in accordance with the following subparagraphs: (a) if this Agreement enters into force before 16 November 1996, such States and entities shall be entitled to continue to participate as members of the Authority on a provisional basis on notification to the depository of the Agreement by such a State or entity of its intention to participate as a member on a provisional basis.
Such membership shall terminate either on 16 November 1996 or on the entry into force of this Agreement and the Convention for such member, whichever is earlier.
The Council may, on the request of the State or entity concerned, extend such membership beyond 16 November 1996 for a further period or periods not exceeding a total of two years provided that the Council is satisfied that the State or entity concerned has been making efforts in good faith to become a party to the Agreement and the Convention; (b) if this Agreement enters into force after 15 November 1996, such States and entities may request the Council to grant continued membership in the Authority on a provisional basis for a period or periods not extending beyond 16 November 1998.
In the case of entities whose components are natural or juridical persons possessing the nationality of more than one State, a plan of work for exploration shall not be approved unless all the States whose natural or juridical persons comprise those entities are States Parties or members on a provisional basis; (d) notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 9, an approved plan of work in the form of a contract for exploration which was sponsored pursuant to subparagraph (c)(ii) by a State which was a member on a provisional basis shall terminate if such membership ceases and the State or entity has not become a State Party; (e) if such a member has failed to make its assessed contributions or otherwise failed to comply with its obligations in accordance with this paragraph, its membership on a provisional basis shall be terminated. 13.
The reference in Annex III, Article 10, of the Convention to performance which has not been satisfactory shall be interpreted to mean that the contractor has failed to comply with the requirements of an approved plan of work in spite of a written warning or warnings from the Authority to the contractor to comply therewith. 14.
The Authority shall elaborate and adopt, in accordance with Article 162(2)(o)(ii) of the Convention, rules, regulations and procedures based on the principles contained in Sections 2, 5, 6, 7 and 8 of this Annex, as well as any additional rules, regulations and procedures necessary to facilitate the approval of plans of work for exploration or exploitation, in accordance with the following subparagraphs: (a) the Council may undertake such elaboration any time it deems that all or any of such rules, regulations or procedures are required for the conduct of activities in the Area, or when it determines that commercial exploitation is imminent, or at the request of a State whose national intends to apply for approval of a plan of work for exploitation; (b) if a request is made by a State referred to in subparagraph (a) the Council shall, in accordance with Article 162(2)(o) of the Convention, complete the adoption of such rules, regulations and procedures within two years of the request; (c) if the Council has not completed the elaboration of the rules, regulations and procedures relating to exploitation within the prescribed time and an application for approval of a plan of work for exploitation is pending, it shall nonetheless consider and provisionally approve such plan of work based on the provisions of the Convention and any rules, regulations and procedures that the Council may have adopted provisionally, or on the basis of the norms contained in the Convention and the terms and principles contained in this Annex as well as the principle of non-discrimination among contractors. 16.
The draft rules, regulations and procedures and any recommendations relating to the provisions of Part XI, as contained in the reports and recommendations of the Preparatory Commission, shall be taken into account by the Authority in the adoption of rules, regulations and procedures in accordance with Part XI and this Agreement. 17.
The relevant provisions of Part XI, Section 4, of the Convention shall be interpreted and applied in accordance with this Agreement.
SECTION 2 The enterprise 1.
If the enterprise does not submit an application for a plan of work for activities in respect of such a reserved area within 15 years of the commencement of its functions independent of the secretariat of the Authority or within 15 years of the date on which that area is reserved for the Authority, whichever is the later, the contractor which contributed the area shall be entitled to apply for a plan of work for that area provided it offers in good faith to include the enterprise as a joint-venture partner. 6.
SECTION 3 Decision-making 1.
If all efforts to reach a decision by consensus have been exhausted, decisions by voting in the Council on questions of procedure shall be taken by a majority of members present and voting, and decisions on questions of substance, except where the Convention provides for decisions by consensus in the Council, shall be taken by a two-thirds majority of members present and voting, provided that such decisions are not opposed by a majority in any one of the chambers referred to in paragraph 9.
Each group of States in paragraph 15(a) to (d) shall be represented in the Council by those members nominated by that group.
Decisions by voting in the Legal and Technical Commission shall be by a majority of members present and voting. 14.
SECTION 5 Transfer of technology 1.
In addition to the provisions of Article 144 of the Convention, transfer of technology for the purposes of Part XI shall be governed by the following principles: (a) the enterprise, and developing States wishing to obtain deep sea-bed mining technology, shall seek to obtain such technology on fair reasonable commercial terms and conditions on the open market, or through joint-venture arrangements; (b) if the enterprise or developing States are unable to obtain deep sea-bed mining technology, the Authority may request all or any of the contractors and their respective sponsoring State or States to cooperate with it in facilitating the acquisition of deep sea-bed mining technology by the enterprise or its joint venture, or by a developing State or States seeking to acquire such technology on fair and reasonable commercial terms and conditions, consistent with the effective protection of intellectual property rights.
The provisions of Annex III, Article 5, of the Convention shall not apply.
There shall be no preferential access to markets for such minerals or for imports of commodities produced from such minerals, in particular: (i) by the use of tariff or non-tariff barriers, and (ii) given by States Parties to such minerals or commodities produced by their State enterprises or by natural or juridical persons which possess their nationality or are controlled by them or their nationals; (e) the plan of work for exploitation approved by the Authority in respect of each mining area shall indicate an anticipated production schedule which shall include the estimated maximum amounts of minerals that would be produced per year under the plan of work; (f) the following shall apply to the settlement of disputes concerning the provisions of the agreements referred to in subparagraph (b): (i) where the States Parties concerned are parties to such agreements, they shall have recourse to the dispute settlement procedures of those agreements; (ii) where one or more of the State Parties concerned are not parties to such agreements, they shall have recourse to the dispute settlement procedures set out in the Convention; (g) in circumstances where a determination is made under the agreements referred to in subparagraph (b) that a State Party has engaged in subsidisation which is prohibited or has resulted in adverse effects on the interest of another State Party and appropriate steps have not been taken by the relevant State Party or States Parties, a State Party may request the Council to take appropriate measures. 2.
Any State Party which has reason to believe that there has been a breach of the requirements of paragraph 1(b) to (d) or paragraph 3 may initiate dispute settlement procedures in conformity with paragraph 1(f) or (g). 5.
SECTION 7 Economic assistance 1.
SECTION 8 Financial terms of contracts 1.
The provisions of Annex III, Article 13(3) to (10), of the Convention shall not apply. 3.
SECTION 9 The Finance Committee 1.
ANNEX II THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITY'S INSTRUMENT OF FORMAL CONFIRMATION The European Community presents its compliments to the Secretary-General of the United Nations and has the honour of depositing its instrument of formal confirmation of the United Nations Convention of 10 December 1982 on the Law of the Sea and the Agreement adopted by the United Nations General Assembly on 28 July 1994 relating to the implementation of Part XI of the United Nations Convention of 10 December 1982 on the Law of the Sea.
The declaration concerning competence provided for in Article 5(1) of Annex IX to the Convention is attached.
The Community also wishes to declare, in accordance with Article 310 of the Convention, its objection to any declaration or position excluding or amending the legal scope of the provisions of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, and in particular those relating to fishing activities.
DECLARATION CONCERNING THE COMPETENCE OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITY WITH REGARD TO MATTERS GOVERNED BY THE UNITED NATIONS CONVENTION ON THE LAW OF THE SEA OF 10 DECEMBER 1982 AND THE AGREEMENT OF 28 JULY 1994 RELATING TO THE IMPLEMENTATION OF PART XI OF THE CONVENTION (Declaration made pursuant to Article 5(1) of Annex IX to the Convention and to Article 4(4) of the Agreement) Article 5(1) of Annex IX of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea provides that the instrument of formal confirmation of an international organisation shall contain a declaration specifying the matters governed by the Convention in respect of which competence has been transferred to the organisation by its Member States which are Parties to the Convention (1).
Article 4(4) of the Agreement relating to the implementation of Part XI of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea of 10 December 1982 (2) provides that formal confirmation by an international organisation shall be in accordance with Annex IX of the Convention.
They have been amended by the Treaty on European Union, which was signed in Maastricht on 7 February 1992 and entered into force, after being ratified by the Signatory States, on 1 November 1993, and most recently by the Accession Treaty signed in Corfu on 24 June 1994, which entered into force on 1 January 1995 (3).
Community law also provides for administrative sanctions, - by virtue of its commercial and customs policy, the Community has competence in respect of those provisions of Parts X and XI of the Convention and of the Agreement of 28 July 1994 which are related to international trade. 2.
Matters for which the Community shares competence with its Member States - With regard to fisheries, for a certain number of matters that are not directly related to the conservation and management of sea fishing resources, for example research and technological development and development cooperation, there is shared competence, - with regard to the provisions on maritime transport, safety of shipping and the prevention of marine pollution contained, inter alia, in Parts II, III, V, VII and XII of the Convention, the Community has exclusive competence only to the extent that such provisions of the Convention or legal instruments adopted in implementation thereof affect common rules established by the Community.
These policies may also have some relevance to the Convention and the Agreement, in particular with regard to certain provisions of Parts VI and XI of the Convention. (1) When it signed the Convention, the Community made the requisite declaration, in accordance with Article 2 of Annex IX, in which it specified the matters dealt with by the Convention for which competence had been transferred to it by its Member States. (2) Signed by the Community on 29 July 1994 and applied by it provisionally with effect from 16 November 1994. (3) The Treaty of Paris establishing the European Coal and Steel Community was registered with the Secretariat of the United Nations on 15 March 1957 under No 3729; the Treaties of Rome establishing the European Economic Community and the European Atomic Energy Community (Euratom) were registered on 21 April and 24 April 1958 respectively under Nos 4300 and 4301.
the preparation of the declarations provided for in Articles 287 and 310 of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea; 4.
