Article 2 The Dublin II Regulation and the Eurodac Regulation 1.
The provisions of the Dublin II Regulation which is annexed to this Agreement and forms part thereof, together with its implementing measures adopted pursuant to Article 27(2) of the Dublin II Regulation and — in respect of implementing measures adopted after the entry into force of this Agreement — implemented by Denmark as referred to in Article 4 of this Agreement, shall under international law apply to the relations between the Community and Denmark. 2.
The provisions of the Eurodac Regulation which is annexed to this Agreement and forms part thereof, together with its implementing measures adopted pursuant to Article 22 or 23(2) of the Eurodac Regulation and — in respect of implementing measures adopted after the entry into force of this Agreement — implemented by Denmark as referred to in Article 4 of this Agreement, shall under international law apply to the relations between the Community and Denmark. 3.
The date of entry into force of this Agreement shall apply instead of the date referred to in Article 29 of the Dublin II Regulation, and Article 27 of the Eurodac Regulation.
Article 3 Amendments to the Dublin II Regulation and to the Eurodac Regulation 1.
Denmark shall not take part in the adoption of amendments to the Dublin II Regulation and the Eurodac Regulation and no such amendments shall be binding upon or applicable in Denmark. 2.
A Danish notification that the content of the amendments have been implemented in Denmark, according to paragraph 4 or 5, creates mutual obligations under international law between Denmark and the Community.
In case: (a) Denmark notifies its decision not to implement the content of the amendments, or (b) Denmark does not make a notification within the 30 days time limit set out in paragraph 2; or (c) legislative measures in Denmark do not enter into force within the time limits set out in paragraph 5, this Agreement shall be considered terminated unless within 90 days the parties decide otherwise or, in the situation referred to under (c), legislative measures in Denmark enter into force within the same period.
Requests that have been transmitted in accordance with the Dublin II Regulation before the date of termination of the Agreement as set out in paragraph 7 are not affected hereby.
Article 4 Implementing measures 1.
Denmark shall not take part in the adoption of opinions by the Committee referred to Article 27(2) of the Dublin II Regulation and Article 23(2) of the Eurodac Regulation or in the adoption of implementing measures adopted pursuant to Article 22 of the Eurodac Regulation.
Implementing measures adopted pursuant to Article 27(2) of the Dublin II Regulation or pursuant to 23(2) of the Eurodac Regulation and implementing measures adopted pursuant to Article 22 of the Eurodac Regulation shall not be binding upon and shall not be applicable in Denmark. 2.
Whenever implementing measures are adopted pursuant to Article 27(2) of the Dublin II Regulation and pursuant to Article 22 or 23(2) of the Eurodac Regulation, the implementing measures shall be communicated to Denmark.
Requests that have been transmitted in accordance with the "Dublin II Regulation" before the date of termination of the Agreement as set out in paragraph 5 are not affected hereby. 7.
Article 5 International agreements which affect the Dublin II Regulation and the Eurodac Regulation 1.
Article 6 Jurisdiction of the Court of Justice of the European Communities in relation to the interpretation of the Agreement 1.
Requests that have been transmitted in accordance with the Dublin II Regulation before the date of termination of the Agreement as set out in paragraph 6 are not affected hereby.
Article 7 Jurisdiction of the Court of Justice of the European Communities in relation to compliance with the Agreement 1.
Article 8 Territorial application This Agreement shall apply to the territories referred to in Article 299 of the Treaty establishing the European Community and in accordance with Article 26 of the "Eurodac Regulation" and Article 26 of the "Dublin II Regulation".
Article 9 Financial contributions regarding Eurodac As far as administrative and operational costs linked to the installation and operation of the Central Unit of Eurodac are concerned, Denmark shall contribute to the annual budget of the EU an annual sum, calculated on the basis of the budgetary appropriations allocated for that purpose, in accordance with the percentage of the Danish gross national product in relation to the overall gross national product of all participating States.
Article 10 Termination of the Agreement 1.
This Agreement shall terminate if Denmark informs the other Member States that it no longer wishes to avail itself of the provisions of Part I of the Protocol on the position of Denmark, under Article 7 of that Protocol. 2.
Requests that have been transmitted before the date of termination of the Agreement as set out in paragraph 1 or 2 are not affected hereby.
Article 11 Entry into force 1.
