Additional Protocol to the Agreement between the European Community and its Member States,of the one part, and the Republic of Chile, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Czech Republic, the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Cyprus,the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Republic of Poland, the Republic of Slovenia,and the Slovak Republic to the European Union Additional Protocol to the Agreement between the European Community and its Member States,of the one part, and the Republic of Chile, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Czech Republic, the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Cyprus,the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Republic of Poland, the Republic of Slovenia,and the Slovak Republic to the European Union THE KINGDOM OF BELGIUM, THE CZECH REPUBLIC, THE KINGDOM OF DENMARK, THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY, THE HELLENIC REPUBLIC, THE REPUBLIC OF ESTONIA, THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN, THE FRENCH REPUBLIC, IRELAND, THE ITALIAN REPUBLIC, THE REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS, THE REPUBLIC OF LATVIA, THE REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA, THE GRAND DUCHY OF LUXEMBOURG, THE REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY, THE REPUBLIC OF MALTA, THE KINGDOM OF THE NETHERLANDS, THE REPUBLIC OF AUSTRIA, THE REPUBLIC OF POLAND, THE PORTUGUESE REPUBLIC, THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA, THE SLOVAK REPUBLIC, THE REPUBLIC OF FINLAND, THE KINGDOM OF SWEDEN, THE UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN AND NORTHERN IRELAND, hereinafter referred to as the "Member States", THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITY, hereinafter referred to as the "Community", and THE REPUBLIC OF CHILE, hereinafter referred to as "Chile", WHEREAS the Agreement establishing an association between the Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Chile, of the other part, hereinafter referred to as "the Agreement", was signed in Brussels on 18 November 2002 and some of its provisions have been applied pursuant to Article 198(3) thereof since 1 February 2003; WHEREAS the Treaty concerning the accession of the Czech Republic, the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Republic of Poland, the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovak Republic (hereinafter referred to as the new Member States) to the European Union (hereinafter referred to as Treaty of Accession) was signed in Athens on 16 April 2003 and entered into force on 1 May 2004, HAVE AGREED AS FOLLOWS: SECTION I CONTRACTING PARTIES Article 1 The Czech Republic, the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Republic of Poland, the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovak Republic hereby become Contracting Parties to the Agreement.
SECTION II TRADE IN GOODS Article 2 Annex I to the Agreement is hereby amended in accordance with the provisions contained in Annex I to this Protocol, in order to add the tariff quotas indicated in Section 1 of Annex I to the Agreement.
SECTION III RULES OF ORIGIN Article 3 Articles 17(4) and 18(2) of Annex III to the Agreement are hereby amended in accordance with the provisions of Annex II to this Protocol.
Article 4 Appendix III of Annex III to the Agreement shall be replaced by Annex III to this Protocol.
The provisions of the Agreement shall be applied to goods exported from either Chile to one of the new Member States or from one of the new Member States to Chile, which comply with the provisions of Annex III to the Agreement and that on the date of accession are either en route or in temporary storage, in a customs warehouse or in a free zone in Chile or in such new Member State. 2.
SECTION IV TRADE IN SERVICES AND ESTABLISHMENT Article 7 Part A of Annex VII to the Agreement shall be replaced by the provisions of Annex V to this Protocol.
Article 8 Part A of Annex VIII to the Agreement shall be replaced by the provisions of Annex VI to this Protocol.
Article 9 Part A of Annex IX to the Agreement shall be replaced by the information provided in Annex VII to this Protocol.
Article 10 Part A of Annex X to the Agreement shall be replaced by the provisions of Annex VIII to this Protocol.
SECTION V GOVERNMENT PROCUREMENT Article 11 1.
The entities of the new Member States listed in Annex IX to this Protocol shall be added to the relevant sections of Annex XI to the Agreement. 2.
The list of publication means of the new Member States listed in Annex X to this Protocol, shall be added to Appendix 2 of Annex XIII to the Agreement.
SECTION VI WTO Article 12 Chile undertakes not to make any claim, request or referral nor to modify or withdraw any concession pursuant to GATT 1994 Articles XXIV.6 and XXVIII or GATS Article XXI in relation to the accession of the new Member States to the European Union.
SECTION VII GENERAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS Article 13 1.
Notwithstanding paragraph 2, the Community and Chile agree to apply provisionally Articles 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 11 and 12 of this Protocol, from the date of signature of this Protocol.
Article 14 This Protocol shall be drawn up in duplicate in the Czech, Danish, Dutch, English, Estonian, Finnish, French, German, Greek, Hungarian, Italian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Maltese, Polish, Portuguese, Slovak, Slovenian, Spanish and Swedish languages, each of these texts being equally authentic.
Artilce 15 This Protocol shall form an integral part of the Agreement.
Article 17(4) shall be amended to read: (...) Movement certificates EUR.1 issued retrospectively must be endorsed with one of the following phrases: ES "EXPEDIDO A POSTERIORI" CS "VYSTAVENO DODATEČNĚ" DA "UDSTEDT EFTERFØLGENDE" DE "NACHTRÄGLICH AUSGESTELLT" ET "VÄLJA ANTUD TAGASIULATUVALT" EL "ΕΚΔΟΘΕΝ ΕΚ ΤΩΝ ΥΣΤΕΡΩΝ" EN "ISSUED RETROSPECTIVELY" FR "DÉLIVRÉ A POSTERIORI" IT "RILASCIATO A POSTERIORI" LV "IZSNIEGTS RETROSPEKTĪVI" LT "RETROSPEKTYVUSIS IŠDAVIMAS" HU "KIADVA VISSZAMENŐLEGES HATÁLLYAL" MT "MAHRUG RETROSPETTIVAMENT" NL "AFGEGEVEN A POSTERIORI" PL "WYSTAWIONE RETROSPEKTYWNIE" PT "EMITIDO A POSTERIORI" SL "IZDANO NAKNADNO" SK "VYDANÉ DODATOČNE" FI "ANNETTU JÄLKIKÄTEEN" SV "UTFÄRDAT I EFTERHAND" 2.
Article 18(2) shall be amended to read: (...) The duplicate issued in this way must be endorsed with one of the following words: ES "DUPLICADO" CS "DUPLIKÁT" DA "DUPLIKAT" DE "DUPLIKAT" ET "DUPLIKAAT" EL "ΑΝΤΙΓΡΑΦΟ" EN "DUPLICATE" FR "DUPLICATA" IT "DUPLICATO" LV "DUBLIKĀTS" LT "DUBLIKATAS" HU "MÁSODLAT" MT "DUPLIKAT" NL "DUPLICAAT" PL "DUPLIKAT" PT "SEGUNDA VIA" SL "DVOJNIK" SK "DUPLIKÁT" FI "KAKSOISKAPPALE" SV "DUPLIKAT" -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX III "Appendix III Specimen of movement certificate eur.1.
The paper used must be white, sized for writing, not containing mechanical pulp and weighing not less than 25 g/m2.
Country, group of countries or territory of destination 6.
Transport details (Optional) 7.
Gross mass (kg) or other measure (litres, m3, etc.) 10.
Invoices (Optional) 11.
Country, group of countries or territory of destination 6.
Transport details (Optional) 7.
Gross mass (kg) or other measure (litres, m3, etc.) 10.
English version The exporter of the products covered by this document (customs or competent governmental authorisation No ... [1]) declares that, except where otherwise clearly indicated, these products are of ...
Spanish version El exportador de los productos incluidos en el presente documento (autorización aduanera o de la autoridad gubernamental competente no ... [1]) declara que, salvo indicación en sentido contrario, estos productos gozan de un origen preferencial ... [2].
Danish version Eksportøren af varer, der er omfattet af nærværende dokument, (toldmyndighedernes eller den kompetente offentlige myndigheds tilladelse nr. ... [1] erklærer, at varerne, medmindre andet tydeligt er angivet, har præferenceoprindelse i ... [2].
German version Der Ausführer (Ermächtigter Ausführer; Bewillingung der Zollbehörde oder der zuständigen Regierungsbehörde Nr. … [1]) der Waren, auf die sich dieses Handelspapier bezieht, erklärt, dass diese Waren, soweit nichts anderes angegeben, präferenzbegünstigte Ursprungswaren ... [2] sind.
Greek version Ο εξαγωγέας των προϊόντων που καλύπτονται από το παρόν έγγραφο (άδεια τελωνείου ή της καθύλην αρμόδιας αρχής, υπ'αριθ. ... [1]) δηλώνει ότι, εκτός εάν δηλώνεται σαφώς άλλως, τα προϊόντα αυτά είναι προτιμησιακής καταγωγής ... [2].
French version L'exportateur des produits couverts par le présent document (autorisation douanière ou de l'autorité gouvernementale compétente no … [1]) déclare que, sauf indication claire du contraire, ces produits ont l'origine préférentielle ... [2].
Italian version L'esportatore delle merci contemplate nel presente documento (autorizzazione doganale o dell'autorità governativa competente n. … [1]) dichiara che, salvo indicazione contraria, le merci sono di origine preferenziale ... [2].
Dutch version De exporteur van de goederen waarop dit document van toepassing is (douanevergunning of vergunning van de competente overheidsinstantie nr. … [1]) verklaart dat, behoudens uitdrukkelijke andersluidende vermelding, deze goederen van preferentiële ...
Portuguese version O abaixo assinado, exportador dos produtos cobertos pelo presente documento (autorização aduaneira ou da autoridade governamental competente no… [1]) declara que, salvo expressamente indicado em contrário, estes produtos são de origem preferencial ... [2].
Estonian version Käesoleva dokumendiga hõlmatud toodete eksportija (tolliameti või pädeva valitsusasutuse luba nr. ... [1]) deklareerib, et need tooted on ... [2] sooduspäritoluga, välja arvatud juhul kui on selgelt näidatud teisiti.
Latvian version Eksportētājs produktiem, kuri ietverti šajā dokumentā (muitas vai kompetentu valsts iestāžu pilnvara Nr. … [1]), deklarē, ka, iznemot tur, kur ir citādi skaidri noteikts, šiem produktiem ir priekšrocību izcelsme no … [2].
Lithuanian version Šiame dokumente išvardintų prekių eksportuotojas (muitinės arba kompetentingos vyriausybinės institucijos liudijimo Nr. … [1]) deklaruoja, kad, jeigu kitaip nenurodyta, tai yra … [2]preferencinės kilmės prekės.
Hungarian version A jelen okmányban szereplő áruk exportőre (vámfelhatalmazási szám: … [1]vagy az illetékes kormányzati szerv által kiadott engedély száma: …) kijelentem, hogy eltérő jelzs hiányában az áruk kedvezményes … származásúak [2].
Maltese version L-esportatur tal-prodotti koperti b'dan id-dokument (awtorizzazzjoni kompetenti tal-gvern jew tad-dwana nru. … [1]) jiddikjara li, hlief fejn indikat b'mod car li mhux hekk, dawn il-prodotti huma ta' origini preferenzjali … [2].
Polish version Eksporter produktów objętych tym dokumentem (upoważnienie władz celnych lub upoważnienie właściwych władz nr … [1]) deklaruje, że z wyjątkiem gdzie jest to wyraźnie określone, produkty te mają … [2] preferencyjne pochodzenie.
Slovene version Izvoznik blaga, zajetega s tem dokumentom, (pooblastilo carinskih ali pristojnih državnih organov št. ... [1]) izjavlja, da, razen če ni drugače jasno navedeno, ima to blago preferencialno... [2] poreklo.
Slovak version Vývozca výrobkov uvedených v tomto dokumente (číslo povolenia colnej správy alebo príslušného vládneho povolenia … [1]) vyhlasuje, že okrem zreteľne označených, majú tieto výrobky preferenčný pôvod v … [2]. …..…….…............................. [3] (Place and date) ….………............................... [4] (Signature of the exporter; in addition, the name of the person.
AT Austria BE Belgium CY Cyprus CZ Czech Republic DE Germany DK Denmark ES Spain EE Estonia FR France FI Finland EL Greece HU Hungary IT Italy IE Ireland LU Luxembourg LT Lithuania LV Latvia MT Malta NL The Netherlands PT Portugal PL Poland SE Sweden SI Slovenia SK Slovak Republic UK UK United Kingdom 3.
I.HORIZONTAL COMMITMENTS | All sectors included in this schedule | | | | | 3.In all Member States [1] services considered as public utilities at a national or local level may be subject to public monopolies or to exclusive rights granted to private operators [2]. | 3.(a)Treatment accorded to subsidiaries (of Chilean companies) formed in accordance with the law of a Member State and having their registered office, central administration or principal place of business within the Community is not extended to branches or agencies established in a Member State by a Chilean company.
However, this does not prevent a Member State from extending this treatment to branches or agencies established in another Member State by a Chilean company or firm, as regards their operation in the first Member State's territory, unless such extension is explicitly prohibited by Community law. | | | | (b)Treatment less favourable may be accorded to subsidiaries (of Chilean companies) formed in accordance with the law of a Member State which have only their registered office or central administration in the territory of the Community, unless it can be shown that they possess an effective and continuous link with the economy of one of the Member States. | | | HU: Commercial presence should take the form of limited liability company, joint-stock company, branch or representative office. | Formation of Legal entity 3.SE: A limited liability company (joint stock company) may be established by one or several founders.
Corresponding conditions prevail for establishment of all other types of legal entities. | | | Law on foreign companies' branches 3.SE: A foreign company (which has not established a legal entity in Sweden) shall conduct its commercial operations through a branch, established in Sweden with independent management and separate accounts.SE: Building projects with a duration of less than a year are exempted from the requirements of establishing a branch or appointing a resident representative.PL: Unbound with respect to branches. | Law on foreign companies' branches 3.SE: The managing director and at least 50 % of the members of the board shall reside within the EEA (European Economic Area).SE: The managing director of a branch shall reside within the EEA (European Economic Area) [3].SE: Foreign or Swedish citizens not residing in Sweden, who wishes to conduct commercial operations in Sweden, shall appoint and register with the local authority a resident representative responsible for such activities.SI: The establishment of branches by foreign companies is conditioned with the registration of the parent company in a court register in the country of origin for at least one year. | | | Legal entities: 3.FI: Acquisition of shares by foreign owners giving more than one third of the voting rights of a major Finnish company or a major business undertaking (with more than 1000 employees or with a turnover exceeding 1 000 million Finnish markka or with a balance sheet total exceeding EUR 167 million) is subject to confirmation by the Finnish authorities; the confirmation may be denied only if an important national interest would be jeopardised.FI: At least half of the founders of a limited company need to be resident either in Finland or in one of the other EEA (European Economic Area) countries.
Company exemptions may, however, be granted.PL: The establishment by foreign service suppliers may only take the form of limited partnership, limited liability company or joint stock company | FI: A foreigner living outside the European Economic Area and carrying on a trade as a private entrepreneur or as a partner in a Finnish limited or general partnership needs a trade permit.
FI: If at least half of the members of the board or the Managing Director are resident outside the European Economic Area, permission is required.
SK: A foreign natural person whose name is to be registered in the Commercial Register as a person authorised to act on behalf of the entrepreneur is required to submit a residence permit for the Slovak Republic | | | Real estate purchases: DK: Limitations on real estate purchase by non-resident physical and legal entities.
Limitations on agricultural estate purchased by foreign physical and legal entities.
LT: Unbound for the acquisition of land by juridical and natural persons.
LV: Unbound in relation to acquisition of land by juridical persons.
Ownership of real estate in the border areas of 10 km by companies in which majority of capital or voting rights belongs directly or indirectly to juridical persons or nationals of another Member State is subject to special permission.
SK: None except for land (for modes 3 and 4) | Real estate purchases: AT: The acquisition, purchase as well as rent or lease of real estate by foreign natural persons and legal persons requires an authorisation by the competent regional authorities (Länder) which will consider whether important economic, social or cultural interests are affected or not.
IE: Prior written consent of the Land Commission is necessary for the acquisition of any interest in Irish land by domestic or foreign companies or foreign nationals.
CZ: Limitations on real estate acquisition by foreign natural and legal entities.
Foreign entities may acquire real property through establishment of the Czech legal entities or participation in joint ventures.
LV: Unbound in relation to acquisition of land by juridical persons.
Foreign entities may acquire real property through establishment of Slovak legal entities or participation in joint ventures.
FI (Åland Islands): Restrictions on the right of establishment and the right to provide services by natural persons who do not enjoy regional citizenship in Åland, or by any legal person, without permission by the competent authorities of the Åland Islands. | | | Investments: FR: Foreign purchases exceeding 33,33 % of the shares of capital or voting rights in existing French enterprise, or 20 % in publicly quoted French companies, are subject to the following regulation: after a period of one month following prior notification, authorisation is tacitly granted unless the Minister of Economic Affairs has, in exceptional circumstances, exercised its right to postpone the investment.FR: Foreign participation in newly privatised companies may be limited to a variable amount, determined by the government of France on a case by case basis, of the equity offered to the public.
FR: For establishing in certain [5] commercial, industrial or artisanal activities, a specific authorisation is needed if the managing director is not holder of a permanent residence permit. | Investments: CY: Entities with foreign participation must have paid up capital commensurate with their finance requirements and non-residents must finance their contribution through the importation of foreign exchange.
In case the non-resident participation exceeds 24 %, any additional financing for working capital requirements or otherwise should be raised from local and foreign sources in proportion to the participation of residents and non-residents in the entity's equity.
MT: Companies with the participation of non-resident legal or natural persons are subject to the same capital requirement applicable to companies that are fully owned by residents as follows: private companies — Lm 500 (with a minimum of 20 % as paid up capital); public companies — Lm 20000 (with a minimum of 25 % paid up capital).
Foreign participation in all sectors/subsectors included in the Schedule of Commitments is normally limited up to 49 %.
The decision of the authorities to grant permission for foreign participation is based on an economic needs test, for which the following criteria are used in general: (a)provision of services which are new to Cyprus;(b)promotion of the export orientation of the economy with development of existing and new markets;(c)transfer of modern technology, know-how and new management techniques;(d)improvement either of the productive structure of the economy or of the quality of existing products and services;(e)complementary impact on existing units or activities;(f)viability of proposed project;(g)creation of new job opportunities for scientists, qualitative improvement and training of local staffIn exceptional cases, in which a proposed investment satisfies most of the economic needs test criteria to a large extent, permission for foreign participation exceeding 49 % may be granted.
In Mutual Funds the extent of allowable foreign ownership is 40 %.
PL: Authorisation of the establishment of a company with foreign equity is required in the case of establishment of company, purchase or acquiring of shares or stocks in an existing company; extending of the activity of the company when the scope of activity embraces at least one of the following areas:management of seaports and airports,dealing in real estate or acting as intermediary in real estate transactions,supply to defence industry that is not covered by other licensing requirements,wholesale trade in imported consumer goods,provision of legal advisory services,establishment of a joint-venture company with a foreign equity in which the Polish party is a State legal person and is contributing non-pecuniary assets as initial capital,arranging a contract, that includes right to use of State property for more than six months or decides on acquisition of such property.SI: For financial services, authorisation is issued by the authorities indicated in sector specific commitments and according to conditions indicated in sector specific commitments.
In relation to capital payments, foreign exchange authorisation required for acceptance of financial credits from foreign subjects, direct capital investments abroad, acquisition of real estate abroad and purchase of foreign securities. | Exchange regime [9] 4.CY: Under the Exchange Control Law, non-residents are not normally permitted to borrow from local sources | | | 4.Unbound except for measures concerning the entry into and temporary stay [10] within a Member State, without requiring compliance with an economic needs test [11], of the following categories of natural persons providing services: | 4.Unbound except for measures concerning the categories of natural persons referred to in the Market Access column. | | | (i)the temporary presence, as intra-corporate transferee [12], of natural persons in the following categories, provided that the service supplier is a legal person and that the persons concerned have been employed by it or have been partners in it (other than as majority shareholders), for at least the year immediately preceding such movement | Community directives on mutual recognition of diplomas do not apply to nationals of third countries.
The right to practise a regulated professional service in one Member State does not grant the right to practise in another Member State. | | | (a)Persons working in a senior position within a legal person, who primarily direct the management of the establishment, receiving general supervision or direction principally from the board of directors or stockholders of the business or their equivalent, including:directing the establishment or a department or subdivision of the establishment,supervising and controlling the work of other supervisory, professional or managerial employees,having the authority personally to hire and fire or recommend hiring, firing or other personnel actions. | Residency requirements AT: Managing directors of branches and legal persons have to be resident in Austria; natural persons responsible within a legal person or a branch for the observance of the Austrian Trade Act must be resident in Austria.
In assessing such knowledge, account will be taken not only of knowledge specific to the establishment, but also of whether the person has a high level of qualification referring to a type of work or trade requiring specific technical knowledge, including membership of an accredited profession; | | | | (ii)the temporary presence of natural persons in the following categories: | | | | (a)persons not residing in the territory of a Member State to which the EC treaties apply, who are representatives of a service supplier and are seeking temporary entry for the purpose of negotiating for the sale of services or entering into agreements to sell services for that service provider, where those representatives will not be engaged in making direct sales to the general public or in supplying services themselves (in addition, for EE, HU, LV, SI: or on their own behalf receive remuneration from a source located within the Member State concerned); | | | | (b)persons working in a senior position, as defined in (i)(a) above, within a legal person, who are responsible for setting up in a Member State a commercial presence of a service provider of Chile when: | | | | the representatives are not engaged in making direct sale or supplying services (in addition, for EE, HU, LV, SI: or on their own behalf receive remuneration from a source located within the Member State concerned), and | | | | the service provider has its principal place of business in the territory of Chile and has no other representative, office, branch or subsidiary in that Member State. | | | | FR: The managing director of an industrial, commercial or artisanal activity [5], if not holder of a residence permit, needs specific authorisation. | | | | IT: Access to industrial, commercial and artisanal activities is subject to a residence permit and specific authorisation to pursue the activity. | | | | (iii)Unbound except for measures concerning the entry into and temporary stay within a Member State of the following category of natural persons without requiring compliance with an economic needs test except where indicated for a specific subsector.
For CPC 861 other than CPC 86190, commercial presence is restricted to sole proprietorships or to law firms with limited liability, in which cases permission is needed from the Bar Association (Advokatuur).
For CPC 861 other than consultancy on home country and public international law, licence issued by the Ministry of Justice and knowledge of Latvian language required.
Sworn solicitors and sworn notaries have to be at least 25 years old, having knowledge of Latvian language, graduated from University of Latvia or from another university recognised as equivalent by the Faculty of Law, University of Latvia, and having practical experience.
Unbound for CPC 861 other than CPC 86190.
LU: Host country law and international law [16] subject to registration as "avocat" at the Luxembourg Bar | SE: When appearing under the title "Advokat" (lawyer, solicitor/barrister) membership in Swedish Bar Association is required.
Swedish citizenship and residency are required for such membership.CY, MT: Unbound | | | LV: For CPC 861 other than consultancy on home country and public international law, licence issued by the Ministry of Justice and knowledge of Latvian language required.
Sworn solicitors and sworn notaries have to be at least 25 years old, having knowledge of Latvian language, graduated form University of Latvia or from another university recognised as equivalent by the Faculty of Law, University of Latvia, and having practical experience.
Sworn notaries have to pass an examination in accordance with the order set up by the Minister of Justice in cooperation with the Council of Sworn Notaries. | | | | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES, SE and UK as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii), subject to the above conditions and the following specific limitations: BE, DE, DK, ES, SE and UK: University degree and professional qualifications and three years' professional experience in the sector.
Professional association (no incorporation) among natural persons permitted.AT: Foreign accountants' (who must be authorised according to the law of their home country) equity participation and shares in the operating results of any Austrian legal entity may not exceed 25 %; this applies only to non-members of the Austrian Professional Body.CY: Access is restricted to natural persons who have obtained authorisation from the Minister of Finance.
Sworn auditors can be persons no younger than 25 years and:(a)having a high school degree in economics or in other specialities, if an examination on basic economics is passed;(b)having at least 3 years experience in auditing recognised by the Latvian Association of Sworn Auditors;(c)which have passed qualification examination and acquired licence of sworn auditor in accordance with requirements of Latvian Association of Sworn Auditors;(d)having excellent reputationSI: Limitations on natural persons employed by juridical persons only | 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:DK, IT: Residence requirement.SI: Unbound except as indicated in the Market Access column. | | | Unbound except for AT, BE, DE, DK, ES, LU, NL, UK, SE as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the above conditions and the following specific limitations: AT, BE, DE, DK, ES, NL, UK, SE: University degree and professional qualifications and three years' experience in the sector.
LV: The owner of shares or the head of a firm should be qualified as a sworn auditor in Latvia.
In case of juridical persons, at least 60 % of capital share or voting rights are reserved for Czech nationals. | | | | LV: The owner of shares or the head of a firm should be qualified as a sworn auditor in Latvia.
Sworn auditors can be persons no younger than 25 years and: (a)having a high school degree in economics or in other specialities, if an examination on basic economics is passed;(b)having at least three years experience in auditing recognised by the Latvian Association of Sworn Auditors;(c)who have passed a qualification examination and acquired licence of sworn auditor in accordance with requirements of Latvian Association of Sworn Auditors;(d)having excellent reputation | | | | LT: None, except not less than 75 % of shares should belong to auditors or auditing companies.
In case of juridical persons at least 60 % of capital share or voting rights are reserved for Slovak nationals. | | | | 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:DK: Residence condition, unless otherwise provided by the Danish Commerce and Companies Agency.ES: Residency requirement.EL: Conditions of nationality for statutory auditors.ES: Audit companies: administrators, directors and partners of companies other than those covered by the eighth EEC Directive on company law, must fulfil a residency condition. | 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:DK: Residence requirement.IT, PT: Residence requirement for individual auditors.SE: Residency within the EEA (European Economic Area) and Swedish exam required [20].SI: Unbound except as indicated in the Market Access column | | | IT: Residency requirement for "Ragionieri-Periti commerciali".
LV: The owner of shares or the head of a firm should be qualified as a sworn auditor in Latvia.
Sworn auditors can be persons no younger than 25 years and: (a)having a high school degree in economics or in other specialities, if an examination on basic economics is passed;(b)having at least three years experience in auditing recognised by the Latvian Association of Sworn Auditors;(c)who have passed a qualification examination and acquired a licence of sworn auditor in accordance with requirements of the Latvian Association of Sworn Auditors; (d) (d)having an excellent reputation. | | | | PL: Nationality requirement.
SI: Limitations on natural persons employed by juridical persons only. | | | | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the above conditions and the following specific limitations: BE, DE, DK, ES: University degree and professional qualifications and three years' professional experience in the sector.
DE: Unbound for activities reserved by law in the "Wirtschaftsprüfer". | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) | | (b)Bookkeeping services(CPC 86220) | 1.CY, FR, HU, IT, MT, SI: Unbound2.None. | 1.FR, IT, MT, SI: UnboundAT: No representation before competent authorities2.None. | | | 3.FR: Provision through a SEL (anonyme, à responsabilité limitée ou en commandite par actions) or SCP only.IT: Access for natural persons only.
Professional association (no incorporation) among natural persons permitted.AT: Foreign bookkeepers' (who must be authorised according to the law of their home country) equity participation and shares in the operating results of any Austrian legal entity may not exceed 25 %; this applies only to non-members of the Austrian Professional Body.CY: Access is restricted to natural persons who have obtained authorisation from the Minister of Finance.
Sworn auditors may be persons no younger than 25 years and: (a)having a high school degree in economics or in other specialities, if an examination on basic economics is passed;(b)having at least three years experience in auditing recognised by the Latvian Association of Sworn Auditors;(c)who have passed a qualification examination and acquired a licence of sworn auditor in accordance with requirements of the Latvian Association of Sworn Auditors; (d) (d)having an excellent reputation.
Sworn auditors can be persons no younger than 25 years and:(a)having a high school degree in economics or in other specialities, if an examination on basic economics is passed;(b)having at least three years experience in auditing recognised by the Latvian Association of Sworn Auditors;(c)who have passed a qualification examination and acquired a licence of sworn auditor in accordance with requirements of the Latvian Association of Sworn Auditors; (d) (d)having an excellent reputation.SI: Limitations on natural persons employed by juridical persons only. | 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:IT: Residence requirement for "Ragionieri-Periti commerciali".PT: Residence requirement. | | | Unbound except for AT, BE, DE, DK, ES, LU, NL, UK, SE where: as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the following specific limitations: AT, BE, DE, DK, ES, NL, UK, SE: University degree and professional qualifications and three years' experience in the sector.
DE: Unbound for activities reserved by law in the "Wirtschaftsprüfer". | Unbound except for AT, BE, DE, DK, ES, LU, NL, UK, SE as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) | | (c)Taxation Advisory Services(CPC 863 excluding representation in Court/tribunals) | 1.FR: Unbound for the drafting of legal documents.CY: Tax agents must be duly authorised by the Minister of Finance.
Professional association (no incorporation) among natural persons permitted.FR: Provision through SEL (anonyme, à responsabilité limitée ou en commandite par actions) or SCP only.AT: Foreign tax advisors' (who must be authorised according to the law of their home country) equity participation and shares in the operating results of any Austrian legal entity may not exceed 25 per cent; this applies only to non-members of the Austrian Professional Body.CY: Access is restricted to natural persons who have obtained authorisation from the Minister of Finance.
HU: Permanent residency requirement | | | | Unbound except for AT, BE, DE, DK, ES, LU, NL, UK, SE where: as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the following specific limitations: AT, BE, DK, ES, NL, UK, SE: University degree and professional qualifications and three years' experience in the sector.
DE: Unbound except for consulting services related to foreign tax law, where: university degree and professional, qualifications and three years' professional experience in the sector. | Unbound except for AT, BE, DE, DK, ES, LU, NL, UK, SE where: as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) | | (d)Architectural Services (CPC 8671) | 1.BE, CY, EL, IT, MT, PT, PL, SI: Unbound. | 1.BE, CY, EL, IT, MT, PT, PL: Unbound.DE: Application of the national rules on fees and emoluments for all services which are performed from abroad.AT: None for pure planning services | | | 2.None3.ES: Access is restricted to natural persons.FR: Provision through SEL (anonyme, à responsabilité limitée ou en commandite par actions) or SCP only.IT, PT: Access is restricted to natural persons.
Condition of nationality and residence is required, however exceptions might be considered | | | | 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:EL: Condition of nationality.HU: Permanent residency requirement | 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:BE, DE: Use by third country qualified professionals of the professional title is only possible on the basis of mutual recognition agreements or for BE, with special authorisation by Royal Decree.IT: Residence requirement. | | | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES, EE, LU, NL, UK, SE where: as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the following specific limitations: BE, DE, DK, NL, UK, SE: University degree and professional qualifications and three years' professional experience in the sector.
EE: A university degree and five years of working experience in a related field.
Unbound for CPC 86713, 86714, 86719. | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES, EE, LU, NL, UK, SE where: as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the following conditions: DE: Use by third country qualified professionals of the professional title is only possible on the basis of mutual recognition agreements.
DE: Application of the national rules on fees and emoluments for all services which are performed from abroad. | | (e)Engineering services(CPC 8672) | 1.CY, EL, IT, MT, PT: Unbound.2.None3.ES: Access is restricted to natural persons.IT, PT: Access is restricted to natural persons.
UK: Compliance with an economic needs test is required.
HU: Permanent residency requirement | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES, EE, NL, UK, SE as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) | | (f)Integrated Engineering Services(CPC 8673) | 1.CY, EL, IT, MT, PT: Unbound.2.None3.ES: Access is restricted to natural persons.IT, PT: Access is restricted to natural persons.
UK: Compliance with an economic needs test is required | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES, EE, NL, UK, SE as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) | | (g)Urban Planning and Landscape Architectural Services(CPC 8674) | 1.BE, CY, EL, IT, MT, PT, PL, SI: Unbound.HU: Unbound for Landscape Architectural Services | 1.BE, CY, EL, IT, MT, PT, PL, SI: Unbound.AT: None for pure planning servicesDE: Application of the national rules on fees and emoluments for all services which are performed from abroad.HU: Unbound for Landscape Architectural Services | | | 2.HU: Unbound for Landscape Architectural Services | 2.HU: Unbound for Landscape Architectural Services | | | 3.IT, PT: Access is restricted to natural persons.
Unbound for Landscape Architectural Services | 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:BE, DE: Use by third country qualified professionals of the professional title is only possible on the basis of mutual recognition agreements or, for BE, with special authorisation by Royal Decree.IT: Residence requirement.HU: Unbound for Landscape Architectural Services | | | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES, EE, NL, UK, SE where: as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the following specific limitations: BE, DE, DK, ES, NL, UK, SE: University degree and professional qualifications and three years' professional experience in the sector.
UK: Compliance with an economic needs test is required | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES, EE, NL, UK, SE where: as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the following conditions: DE: Use by third country qualified professionals of the professional title is only possible on the basis of mutual recognition agreements.
DE: Application of the national rules on fees and emoluments for all services which are performed from abroad | | (h)Medical, dental and Midwifery services(CPC 9312, 93191 [21]) | 1.All Member States except CZ, HU, LV, LT, PL, SE, SI: UnboundPL, SE: NoneCZ, HU, LV, LT, SI: Unbound for midwifery services.2.CY, FI, MT: Unbound.CZ, EE, HU, SI, SK: Unbound for midwifery services | 1.All Member States except CZ, HU, LV, LT, PL, SE, SI: UnboundCZ, HU, LV, LT, SI: Unbound for midwifery services.PL, SE: None2.CY, FI, MT: Unbound.CZ, EE, HU, SI, SK: Unbound for midwifery services | | | 3.AT: Unbound for medical and dental services; for midwives: access restricted to natural persons only.DE: Access restricted to natural persons only.
Professional association (no incorporation) among natural persons permitted.
IE: Access through partnership or natural persons only.
FR: Provision through SEL (anonyme, à responsabilité limitée ou en commandite par actions) or SCP only.
LV: None for midwifery services.
For medical and dental services, nationality requirement.
Unbound for midwives servicesEE, HU, SI: Unbound for Midwives ServicesLV, PL: Foreign medical doctors have limited election rights within the professional chambersLT: Foreigners must pass additional qualification exam | | | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES, as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the above conditions and the following specific limitations: BE, DE, DK, ES: University degree and professional qualifications and three years' professional experience in the sector.
DE: Condition of nationality for doctors and dentists which can be waived on an exceptional basis in cases of public health interest. | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES, as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) | | (i)Veterinary services(CPC 932) | 1.All Member States except FI, LU, LT, PL, SE, UK: UnboundFI, LU, LT, PL, SE: None.UK: unbound except for veterinary laboratory and technical services supplied to veterinary surgeons, general advice, guidance and information e.g.: nutritional, behavioural and pet-care2.CY, EE, HU, MT, SI: Unbound | 1.All Member States except FI, LU, LT, PL, SE, UK: UnboundFI, LU, LT, PL, SE: None.UK: unbound except for veterinary laboratory and technical services supplied to veterinary surgeons, general advice, guidance and information e.g.: nutritional, behavioural and pet-care2.CY, EE, HU, MT, SI: Unbound | | | 3.AT, CY, EE, HU, MT, SI: Unbound.DE, DK, ES, PT: Access restricted to natural persons.IT: Access restricted to natural persons.
Professional associations (no incorporation) among natural persons permitted.IE, UK: Access through partnership or natural persons only.FR: Provision through SEL (anonyme, à responsabilité limitée ou en commandite par actions) or SCP only.CZ, SK: Access is restricted to natural persons only.
Foreign persons may apply for permission to practiceAT, CY, EE, HU, MT, SI: Unbound. | 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:AT, CY, EE, HU, MT, SI: Unbound.IT, CZ, SK: Residence requirement.LT: Foreigners must pass additional qualification exam. | | | Unbound except for BE, DK, ES, as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the following specific limitations: BE, DK, ES: University degree and professional qualifications and three years' professional experience in the sector.
BE: Economic Needs Test is required if the gross annual salary of the natural person is below the threshold of 30 000 Euro. | Unbound except for BE, DK, ES, as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) | | (j)Services provided by nurses, physiotherapists and paramedical personnel(CPC 93191 [23], except for AT where the following activities of CPC 9319 are covered: nurses, physiotherapists, occupational therapists, logotherapists, dieticians and nutricians, psychologists and psychotherapists) | 1.Unbound except for FI, LU, PL and SE: None2.CY, CZ, EE, HU, MT, SI, SK: Unbound3.CY, CZ, EE, HU, MT, SI, SK: UnboundES, PT: Nurses — access restricted to natural persons.IT: Nurses — access restricted to natural persons.
Professional associations (no incorporation) among natural persons permitted.FR: Provision through a SEL (anonyme, à responsabilité limitée, ou en commandite par actions) or SCP only.AT: Access restricted to natural persons only except for psychologists and psychotherapists: none.SE: Needs test applied to decide the number of private practices to be subsidised through the public insurance scheme.LT: Access limited to sole proprietorship only.
BE: Economic Needs Test is required if the gross annual salary of the natural person is below the threshold of EUR 30000. | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES, as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) | | Pharmacists (retail distribution of pharmaceutical goods - part of CPC 63211) | 1.Unbound2.AT, CY, CZ, EE, FI, HU, LT, LV, MT, PL, SE, SI, SK: Unbound | 1.Unbound2.AT, CY, CZ, EE, FI, HU, LT, LV, MT, PL, SE, SI, SK: Unbound | | | 3. [24] AT, CY, CZ, EE, FI, HU, LV, LT, MT, PL, SE, SI, SK: UnboundDE, DK, ES, EL, IT [25], LU, NL, PT: Access restricted to natural persons only.BE, DK, ES, FR, EL, IT, LU, PT: Degree of pharmacist required.BE, DE, DK, ES, FR, IT, IE, PT: Economic needs test applied.FR: On a national treatment basis access through a SEL (anonyme, à responsabilité limitée ou en commandite par actions) SNC and SARL only. | 3.AT, CY, CZ, EE, FI, HU, LT, MT, PL, SE, SI, SK: Unbound | | | 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the specific conditions:AT, CY, CZ, EE, FI, HU, LV, LT, MT, PL, SE, SI, SK: UnboundFR: Condition of nationality.
However, within established quotas, access for third country nationals is possible provided the service provider holds the French degree in pharmacy.DE, EL: Condition of nationality. | 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the specific conditionsAT, CY, CZ, EE, FI, HU, LV, LT, MT, PL, SE, SI, SK: UnboundIT, PT: Residence requirement | | | Unbound except for BE, DK, ES as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the following specific limitations: BE, DK, ES: University degree and professional qualifications and three years' professional experience in the sector.
BE: Economic Needs Test is required if the gross annual salary of the natural person is below the threshold of 30000 Euro. | Unbound except for BE, DK, ES as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) | | B.Computer and Related Services | | | | (a)Consultancy Services related to the Installation of Computer Hardware(CPC 841)(b)Software Implementation Services(CPC 842)(c)Data Processing Services (CPC 843)(d)Data Base Services(CPC 844) Maintenance and Repair (CPC 845)(e)Other Computer Services (CPC 849 | 1.None2.None3.None4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | 1.None2.None3.None4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | | | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES, EL, IT, LU, NL, SE where: as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the following specific limitations: IT, NL: Unbound, except for computer scientists, systems analysts, programmers, software document analysts and field engineers where: university degree and three years' professional experience in the sector.
IT: Compliance with an economic needs test is required.
FR: The researchers are in possession of an employment contract from a research body.The work permit is delivered for a period not exceeding nine months renewable for the duration of the contract.Compliance with an economic needs test is required.The research body must pay a tax to the International Migration Office. | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES and FR where concerning the temporary entry of researchers as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) | | | For HU only: Personalities of internationally recognized reputation who have been invited by scientific research institutes for the duration of the invitation. | | | (b)R %amp% D services on social sciences and humanities(CPC 852) | 1.None2.None3.IT: Access to the profession of psychologist is restricted to natural persons only.
Professional association (no incorporation) among natural persons is permitted.PT: Access to the profession of psychologist is restricted to natural persons only. | 1.None2.None3.None | | | 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:IT, PT: Residence requirement for psychologists | | | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES, FR and LU where concerning the temporary entry of researchers as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the following specific limitations: BE, DE, DK, ES: University degree or equivalent technical qualification demonstrating knowledge, and three years professional experience in the sector.
Unauthorised estate agent: Residence requirement unless waived by the Danish Commerce and Companies Agency. | 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:CY, CZ, EE, HU, LV, LT, MT, PL, SK, SI: UnboundDK: Authorised and unauthorised estate agent: Residence requirement unless waived by the Danish Commerce and Companies Agency.IT, PT: Residence requirement. | | E.Rental/leasing services without operators(a)Relating to ships(CPC 83103) | 1.FR: Chartering of all ships is subject to prior notification.CY, HU, MT, PL: Unbound2.CY, MT, PL: UnboundFR: Chartering of all ships is subject to prior notification.3.CY, MT, PL: UnboundFR: Chartering of all ships is subject to prior notification.SE: To fly the Swedish flag proof of dominating Swedish operating influence must be shown in case of foreign ownership interests in ships.LT: Ships must be owned by Lithuanian natural persons or companies established in Lithuania | 1.CY, MT, PL: Unbound2.CY, MT, PL: Unbound3.CY, MT, PL: Unbound | | | 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:CY, MT, PL: Unbound | 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:CY, MT, PL: Unbound | | (b)Relating to aircraft(CPC 83104) | 1.CY, CZ, HU, LV, MT, PL, SK: Unbound2.All Member States except CY, CZ, LV, MT, PL, SK: Aircraft used by Community air carriers have to be registered in the Member State licensing the air carrier or elsewhere in the Community.
IT, UK: Compliance with an economic needs test is required.
IT, UK: Compliance with an economic needs test is required. | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES, EE, IT, LU, LV, UK, SE as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) | | (e)Technical testing and analysis services(CPC 8676) | 1.IT: Unbound for the profession of biologist and chemical analyst.CY, CZ, MT, PL, SK, SE: Unbound2.CY, CZ, MT, PL, SK, SE: Unbound | 1.IT: Unbound for the profession of biologist and chemical analyst.CY, CZ, MT, PL, SK, SE: Unbound2.CY, CZ, MT, PL, SK, SE: Unbound | | | 3.ES: Access for chemical analysis through natural persons only.IT: Access for the profession of biologist and chemical analyst through natural persons only.
Professional association (no incorporation) among natural persons is permitted.PT: Access for the profession of biologist and chemical analyst through natural persons only.CY, CZ, MT, PL, SK, SE: Unbound | 3.CY, CZ, MT, PL, SK, SE: Unbound | | | 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:CY, CZ, MT, PL, SK, SE: Unbound | 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:IT, PT: Residence requirements for biologist and chemical analyst.CY, CZ, MT, PL, SK: Unbound | | | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES, EE, LU, UK, SE as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the following specific limitations: BE, DE, DK, ES, UK, SE: University degree or technical qualifications demonstrating knowledge and three years' professional experience.
UK: Compliance with an economic needs test is required | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES, EE, LU, UK, SE as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) | | (f)Advisory and consulting services relating to agriculture, hunting and forestry (SE: excluding hunting)HU: part of CPC 881LV, LT, PL: services incidental to agriculture, hunting and forestry (CPC 881) | 1.IT: Unbound for activities reserved to agronomist and "periti agrari".2.None3.ES: Access for agronomist and engineers in forestry is restricted to natural persons.PT: Access for agronomist is restricted to natural persons | 1.IT: Unbound for activities reserved to agronomist and "periti agrari".2.None3.None | | | IT: Access for agronomist and "periti agrari" restricted to natural persons.
Professional association (no incorporation) among natural persons is permitted. | | | | 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:IT, PT: Residence requirement for agronomists | | | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK and ES as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the above conditions and the following specific limitations: BE, DE, DK, ES: University degree or equivalent technical qualification demonstrating knowledge and three years' professional experience in the sector.
Exemptions to the residency-requirement are granted by the Ministry of Trade and Industry.LT: Unbound | 1.None2.None3.LT: Unbound4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:PT: Residence requirementLT: Unbound | | | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK and ES as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the above conditions and the following specific limitations: BE, DE, DK, ES: University degree or equivalent technical qualification demonstrating knowledge and three years' professional experience in the sector.
All Member States except HU, LV, LT, SI: Unbound HU, LV, LT, SI: None 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:All Member States except HU, LV, LT, SI: UnboundHU, LT and SI: Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal sectionLV: None | | LT: Covers consultancy services related to the transmission and distribution on a fee basis of electricity, gaseous fuels, steam and hot water to household, industrial, commercial and other users - CPC 887 [28] SI: Services Incidental to energy distribution - for gas only [29] — part of CPC 887) | | | | (k)Placement and supply services of personnelExecutive search services(CPC 87201) | 1.AT, DE, ES, FI, IE, PT, SE, CY, CZ, EE, LV, LT, MT, PL, SK, SI: Unbound.2.AT, FI, CY, CZ, EE, LV, LT, MT, PL, SK, SI Unbound3.AT, DE, FI, PT, CY, CZ, EE, LV, LT, MT, PL, SK, SI: UnboundES: State monopoly.4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:AT, CY, CZ, EE, FI, LV, LT, MT, PL, SK, SI: Unbound | 1.AT, DE, ES, FI, IE, PT, SE, CY, CZ, EE, LV, LT, MT, PL, SK, SI: Unbound.2.AT, FI, CY, CZ, EE, LV, LT, MT, PL, SK, SI Unbound3.AT, DE, FI, PT, CY, CZ, EE, LV, LT, MT, PL, SK, SI: Unbound4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:AT, CY, CZ, EE, FI, LV, LT, MT, PL, SK, SI: Unbound | | Placement services (CPC 87202) | 1.All Member States except HU: UnboundHU: None2.AT, CY, CZ, EE, FI, LV, LT, MT, PL, SK: Unbound3.AT, CY, CZ, EE, FI, LV, LT, MT, PL, PT, SK: UnboundDE: Subject to a mandate given to the service supplier by the competent authority.
The mandate will be granted in function of the situation and development of the labour market.BE, FR, ES, IT: State monopoly.4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:AT, CY, CZ, EE, FI, LV, LT, MT, PL, SK: Unbound | 1.All Member States except HU: UnboundHU: None2.AT, CY, CZ, EE, FI, LV, LT, MT, PL, SK: Unbound3.AT, CY, CZ, EE, FI, LV, LT, MT, PL, PT, SK: Unbound4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:AT, CY, CZ, EE, FI, LV, LT, MT, PL, SK: Unbound | | Supply services of office support personnel (CPC 87203) | 1.AT DE, FR, IT, IE, NL, PT, SK: Unbound.2.AT, FI, SK: Unbound3.AT, DE, FI, PT, SK: UnboundIT: State monopoly.4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:AT, FI, SK: Unbound | 1.AT, DE, FR, IT, IE, NL, PT, SK: Unbound.2.AT, FI, SK: Unbound3.AT, DE, FI, PT, SK: Unbound4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:AT, FI, SK: Unbound | | l.Security services(CPC 87302, 87303, 87304, 87305) | 1.BE, CY, CZ, ES, EE, FR, IT, LV, LT, MT, PT, PL, SI, SK: Unbound.2.CY, CZ, EE, LV, LT, MT, PL, SI, SK: Unbound3.CY, CZ, EE, LV, LT, MT, PL, SI, SK: Unbound.ES: Access through Sociedades Anonimas, Sociedades de Responsabilidad Limitada, Sociedades Anonimas Laborales and Sociedades Cooperativas only.
Residence requirement for managers.BE: Residence requirement for management personnel.IT: Residence requirement in order to obtain necessary authorisation for security guard services and the transport of valuables.CY, CZ, EE, LV, LT, MT, PL, SI, SK: Unbound | | (m)Related scientific and technical consulting services [30] (CPC 8675) | 1.None except FR: Unbound for exploration services.2.None | 1.FR: Unbound for exploration services.DE: Application of the national rules on fees and emoluments for all surveying services which are performed from abroad.2.None | | | 3.FR: "Surveying": Access through a SEL (anonyme, à responsabilité limitée ou en commandite par actions), SCP, SA and SARL only.IT: For certain exploration services activities related to mining (minerals, oil, gas, etc.), exclusive rights may exist.ES: Access to profession of surveyors and geologists through natural persons only.PT: Access restricted to natural persons.IT: Access to profession of surveyors and geologists through natural persons only.
Professional association (no incorporation) among natural persons permitted | 3.FR: "Exploration and prospection services" subject to authorisation. | | | 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:DE: Conditions of nationality for publicly appointed surveyors.FR: "Surveying" — operations relating to the establishment of property rights and to land law are reserved for EC "experts-géomètres". | 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:IT, PT: Residence requirement. | | | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES, EE as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the above conditions and the following specific limitations: BE, DE, DK, ES: University degree and professional qualifications and three years' professional experience in the sector.
BE: Economic needs test is required if the gross annual salary of the natural person is below the threshold of EUR 30000. | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK and ES as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) | | (t)Other | | | | Translation Services (CPC 87905) (HU: except official translation.
IT, IE, SE, UK: Relevant qualifications and three years' professional experience.
IT, UK: Compliance with an economic needs test is required. | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES, EL, IT, IE, UK, SE as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) | | Interior design services (CPC 87907) [33] | 1.None2.None3.None4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | 1.DE: Application of the national rules on fees and emoluments for all services which are performed from abroad.2.None3.None4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | | II.SECTOR-SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS | 2.Communication services | | | | Postal and courier services [34] Services relating to the handling [35] of postal items [36] according to the following list of sub-sectors, whether for domestic or foreign destinations.
CY, HU, LV, MT, SI: Unbound.
FR: Unbound except for measures concerning the temporary entry of technicians under the following conditions: the technician is an employee of a legal person within the territory of Chile and is transferred to a commercial presence in FR who has a contract with that legal person;the work permit is delivered for a period not exceeding six months;the technician presents a work certificate from the commercial presence in FR and a letter from the legal person within the territory of Chile demonstrating its agreement to the transfer;compliance with an economic needs test is required;the commercial presence body must pay a tax to the International Migration Office. | Unbound except for BE, DK, ES, FR and NL where: as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) | | | Unbound except for DE, SE and UK where as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii), only for CPC 5111, and subject to the following specific limitations: SE, UK: University degree and professional qualifications and three years' professional experience in the sector.
UK: Compliance with an economic needs test is required.
EE: Compulsory primary education services) | 1.FR: Condition of nationality.
However, third country nationals may obtain authorisation from competent authorities to establish and direct an education institution and to teach.CY, FI, MT, SE, SI: Unbound.2.CY, FI, MT, SE, SI: Unbound.3.CY, FI, MT, SE, SI: Unbound.CZ: Foreign nationals may obtain authorisation from competent authorities to establish and direct an education institution and to teach.
However, third country nationals may obtain authorisation from competent authorities to establish and direct an education institution and to teach. | 1.CY, FI, MT, SE, SI: Unbound.2.CY, FI, MT, SE, SI: Unbound.3.CY, FI, MT, SE, SI: Unbound.CZ: None other than: majority of members of the Board must be of Czech nationality.LT: None, except for permit issued by the Ministry of Education and Science for the State recognised teaching institutions required.SK: None other than: majority of members of the Board have to be of Slovak citizenship.4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:CY, FI, MT, SE, SI: Unbound | | B.Secondary education services(All Member States except EE: CPC 922.
LV: Excluding CPC 9224) | 1.CY, FI, MT, SE: Unbound.FR: Condition of nationality.
However, third country nationals may obtain authorisation from competent authorities to establish and direct an education institution and to teach.2.CY, FI, MT, SE: Unbound.3.CY, FI, MT, SE: Unbound.CZ: Foreign nationals may obtain authorisation from competent authorities to establish and direct an education institution and to teach.
However, third country nationals may obtain authorisation from competent authorities to establish and direct an education institution and to teach. | 1.CY, FI, MT, SE: Unbound2.CY, FI, MT, SE: Unbound3.CY, FI, MT, SE: Unbound.LT: None, except for permit issued by the Ministry of Education and Science for the State recognised teaching institutions required.SI: None other than: majority of the Board must be of Slovenian nationalitySK: None other than: majority of members of the Board have to be of Slovak citizenship.4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:CY, FI, MT, SE: Unbound. | | C.Higher Education Services(All Member States except CZ and SK: CPC 923.
CZ and SK: Only CPC 92310) | 1.FR: Condition of nationality.
However, third country nationals may obtain authorisation from competent authorities to establish and direct an education institution and to teach. | 1.AT, CY, FI, MT, SE: Unbound2.AT, CY, FI, MT, SE: Unbound3.AT, CY, FI, MT, SE: UnboundSI: None other than: majority of the Board must be of Slovenian nationalitySK: None other than: majority of members of the Board have to be of Slovak citizenship.4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:AT, CY, FI, MT, SE: Unbound | | | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES, FR and LU concerning the temporary entry of professors where: as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the following specific limitations: BE, DE, DK, ES: University degree or equivalent technical qualification demonstrating knowledge, and three years professional experience in the sector.
FR: The professors have obtained an employment contract from a university or other higher education institution.The work permit is delivered for a period not exceeding nine months renewable for the duration of the contract.Compliance with an economic needs test is required unless those professors are designated directly by the Minister in charge of higher education.The recruiting institution must pay a tax to the International Migration Office. | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES, FR and LU as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) | | | For HU only: Personalities of internationally recognized reputation who have been invited by higher education institutions for the duration of the invitation. | | | D.Adult education services (CPC 924; for AT CPC 9240 except education services for adults by means of radio or television broadcasting.
BE: Economic Needs Test is required if the gross annual salary of the natural person is below the threshold of EUR 30000. | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) | | II.SECTOR-SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS | 6.Environmental services [53] | | | | (SE: the offer does not include public works functions whether owned and operated by municipalities, state or federal governments or contracted out by these governments) | | | | A.Water for human use and wastewater managementWater collection, purification and distribution services through mains, except steam %amp% hot water. | 1.Unbound [54]2.None except CY, CZ, EE, HU, LV, LT, MT, PL, SI, SK: unbound.3.None except AT, DE, UK, CY, CZ, EE, HU, LV, LT, MT, PL, SI, SK: Unbound4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:CY, CZ, EE, HU, LV, LT, MT, PL, SI, SK: Unbound | 1.Unbound [54]2.None except CY, CZ, EE, HU, LV, LT, MT, PL, SI, SK: Unbound.3.None except AT, DE, UK, CY, CZ, EE, HU, LV, LT, MT, PL, SI, SK: Unbound4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:CY, CZ, EE, HU, LV, LT, MT, PL, SI, SK: Unbound | | | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the following specific limitations: BE, DE, DK, ES: University degree or equivalent technical qualification demonstrating knowledge and three years' professional experience in the sector.
PL: excluding CPC 643)(excluding catering in transport services sector except in PL) | 1.Unbound except for catering: none2.None3.IT: Local economic needs test on opening of new bars, cafés and restaurants. | 1.Unbound except for catering: none2.None3.None | | | 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | | B.Travel Agencies and Tour Operators Services (including tour managers)(CPC 7471) | 1.HU: UnboundPL: Commercial presence required.2.None3.PT: Requirement of constitution of a commercial company having its corporate base in Portugal.IT: Economic needs test.FI: A permission from the National Consumer Administration is required.CZ: Economic needs test based on population criterion. | 1.PL: Commercial presence required.2.None3.None | | | 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | | | Unbound except for AT, BE, DE, DK, ES, IT, FI, IE, SE where: as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the following specific limitations: AT, FI, IT, IE, SE: Unbound except for tour managers (persons whose function is to accompany a tour group of a minimum of 10 persons, without acting as guides in specific locations) where for AT, IT, IE, SE: professional certificate and three years' professional experience.
BE, DE, DK, ES: University degree or equivalent technical qualification and three years professional experience.
IT: Compliance with an economic needs test is required | Unbound except for AT, BE, DE, DK, ES, IT, FI, IE, SE where: as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) | | C.Tourist guides services (CPC 7472) | 1.CY, HU, IT, LT, MT, PT, PL, SI: Unbound.2.CY, HU, LT, MT, PL, SI: Unbound3.CY, HU, LT, MT, PL, SI: Unbound4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:ES, IT: The right to exercise the profession is reserved for the local organisations of tourist guides.EL, ES, IT, PT: Access to the activity is subject to condition of nationality.CY, HU, LT, MT, PL, SI: Unbound | 1.CY, HU, LT, MT, PL, SI: Unbound2.CY, HU, LT, MT, PL, SI: Unbound3.CY, HU, LT, MT, PL, SI: Unbound4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:CY, HU, LT, MT, PL, SI: Unbound | | | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, SE as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the above conditions and the following specific limitations: BE, DE, DK: University degree or equivalent technical qualification demonstrating knowledge and three years' professional experience in the sector.
BE: Economic Needs Test is required if the gross annual salary of the natural person is below the threshold of EUR 30000. | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, SE as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) | | II.SECTOR-SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS | 9.Recreational, cultural and sporting services (other than audio-visual services) | | | | A.Entertainment services(including theatre, live bands and circus services)(CPC 9619) | 1.Unbound2.CY, CZ, EE, FI, LT, LV, PL, SI, SK: Unbound3.CY, CZ, EE, FI, LV, PL, SI, SK: UnboundLT: None, except prohibition to establish and maintain gambling houses, to organise gambling games [56].4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:CY, CZ, EE, FI, LT, LV, PL, SI, SK: UnboundIT: Economic needs test. | 1.All Member States except HU: Unbound.HU: None2.CY, CZ, EE, FI, LT, LV, PL, SI, SK: Unbound3.CY, CZ, FI, LV, PL, SI, SK: UnboundFR, IT: Unbound for subsidies and any other forms of direct and indirect support.SE: Targeted financial support to specific local, regional or national activities.LT: None, except:(a)as indicated under market access (also exception indicated in Part I regarding prohibition of foreign investments to lotteries); and (b)Unbound for subsidies as regards cinema operation theatre (CPC 96199**).4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:CY, CZ, EE, FI, LT, LV, PL, SI, SK: Unbound | | | Unbound except for AT, BE, DE, DK, ES and FR concerning the temporary entry of artist where as indicated under the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the following specific limitations: BE, DE, DK: University degree or equivalent technical qualification demonstrating knowledge and three years' professional experience in the sector. | Unbound except for AT, BE, DE, DK, ES and FR concerning the temporary entry of artist where as indicated under the horizontal section under (iii) | | | BE: Economic Needs Test is required if the gross annual salary of the natural person is below the threshold of EUR 30000.
Foreign companies may not control publishing or broadcasting companies: foreign equity participation limited to 49 %.HU: UnboundPT: News companies, incorporated in Portugal in legal form of "Sociedade Anónima", must have the social capital in the form of nominal stock.SK: foreign suppliers of news and press agency services must be accredited at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Slovak Republic.
The official press agency of the Slovak Republic (TASR) is subject of state financing.4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | 2.None3.HU: Unbound4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | | | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the above conditions following specific limitations: BE, DE, DK, ES: University degree or equivalent technical qualification demonstrating knowledge and three years' professional experience in the sector.
BE: Economic Needs Test is required if the gross annual salary of the natural person is below the threshold of EUR 30000. | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) | | C.Libraries, archives, museums and other cultural services (CPC 963) | 1.Unbound except in AT: none2.Unbound except in AT, EE: none3.Unbound except in AT, LTAT: NoneLT: Licenses for researching, reservation and restoration of the immovable cultural values, for preparation of the conditions, programmes and projects of such works, for preservation and restoration of movable cultural values are necessary.4.Unbound except in AT, EE: unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | 1.Unbound except in AT: none2.Unbound except in AT, EE: none3.Unbound except in AT, LTAT: NoneLT: None except under market access4.Unbound except in AT, EE, LT: unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | | D.Sporting and Other Recreational Services other than Gambling and Betting Services(CPC 9641, 96491.
All Member States except PL: Unbound PL: None 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:All Member States except PL: UnboundPL: None | | (d)Maintenance and repair of aircraft and parts thereof | 1.All Member States except EE, HU, LV, PL: UnboundEE, HU, LV, PL: None2.None3.CZ: Corporate seat required in the Czech RepublicSK: Corporate seat is required in the Slovak Republic4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | 1.All Member States except EE, HU, LV, PL: UnboundEE, HU, LV, PL: None2.None3.CZ: Corporate seat required in the Czech RepublicSK: Corporate seat is required in the Slovak Republic4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | | Sales and marketing | 1.None2.None3.None4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | 1.For distribution through CRS of air transport services provided by CRS parent carrier: unbound.2.None3.For distribution through CRS of air transport services provided by CRS parent carrier: unbound.4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | | Computer reservations system | 1.None2.None3.None4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | 1.For obligations of parent or participating carriers in respect of a CRS controlled by an air carrier of one or more third countries: unbound.2.None3.For obligations of parent or participating carriers in respect of a CRS controlled by an air carrier of one or more third countries: unbound.4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | | E.Rail transport services | | | | (a)Passenger transportation | 1.All Member States: Unbound2.All Member States except HU: UnboundHU: None3.All Member States except HU: UnboundHU: Services may be provided through a Contract of Concession granted by the state or the local authority4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:All Member States except HU: UnboundHU: Unbound except as indicated in horizontal section. | 1, 2 and 3.
Limitations on the use of leased vehicles for such operations.For 7122:ES: Economic needs test. | 1.Unbound2.None except, CY, CZ, EE, HU, MT, PL, SI, SK: Unbound.3.Unbound for transport within a Member State (cabotage), by a carrier established outside that Member State.AT, HU, MT, PL, SK: UnboundLV, SE: Requirement on established entities to use vehicles with national registration. | | | For 71221 (taxi services):All Member States except in SE: economic needs test [66],plus | | | | DK: Access for natural persons only, and local establishment requirement.
IT: Access for natural persons only. | | | | For 71222 (limousine services): DK: Access for natural persons only, and local establishment requirement.
FI: Authorisation required, not extended to foreign registered vehicles.
IT: Access for natural persons only, and economic needs test.
PT: Economic needs test.
For 71213 (Intercity bussing services) [67]IT, ES, IE: Economic needs test.FR: Unbound.FI: Authorisation required, not extended to foreign registered vehicles.DK: Economic needs testLV: Authorisation required (licence and special permit), not extended to foreign registered vehicles.PT: Access through incorporation only.For 71223:LV: Authorisation required (licence), not extended to foreign registered vehicles. | | | | 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:AT, CY, CZ, EE, HU, MT, PL, SI, SK: UnboundPT: Nationality requirement for specialist personnel. | 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:AT, CY, CZ, EE, HU, MT, LV PL, SI, SK: UnboundDK: Residence requirement for managers | | (b)Freight Transportation(CPC 7123) | 1.Unbound2.None except CY, CZ, EE, HU, MT, PL, SI, SK: Unbound3.For transport within a Member State by a carrier established in another Member State: unbound.AT, CY, CZ, ES, EE, HU, MT, PL, SI, SK: UnboundIT: For transport within the country, licensing subject to an economic needs test.FI: Authorisation required, not extended to foreign registered vehicles.SE: Authorisation required for commercial land transport service operations.
Limitations on the use of leased vehicles for such operations.4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:AT, CY, CZ, EE, HU, MT, PL, SI and SK: Unbound | 1.Unbound2.HU, MT, PL, SK: unbound3.Unbound for transport within a Member State by a carrier established in another Member State.AT, ES, HU, PL, MT, SK: Unbound.SE: Requirement on established utilities to use vehicles with national registration.4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:AT, CY, CZ, EE, HU, LV, MT, PL, SI, SK: Unbound | | (d)Maintenance and Repair of Road Transport Equipment(All Member States except CZ, EE, FI, HU, SI and SK: CPC 6112.CZ, EE, HU and SK: 6112+8867.FI 6112 and parts of 88.
It does not relate to telecommunications and financial services. [6] CZ: Non-discriminatory system of foreign exchange control is applied consisting of:(a)limitation on acquisition of foreign exchange by resident nationals for personal purposes;(b)foreign exchange authorisation in case of Czech residents for acceptance of financial credits from foreign subjects, direct capital investment abroad, acquisition of real estate abroad and purchases of foreign securities. [7] PL: There is non-discriminatory system of foreign exchange controls relating to limitations in foreign exchange turnover and to system of foreign exchange permits (general and individual) among others limitations of capital flows and currency payments.
The following foreign exchange transactions require authorisation:transfer of foreign exchange out of the country,transfer of Polish currency into the country,ownership transfer of the right to monetary assets between domestic and foreign persons,granting and drawing of loans and credits by domestic persons in foreign exchange transactions,fixing or executing payments in foreign currencies within Poland for acquired goods, real estate, property rights, services or labour;opening and possessing of a banking account in a bank situated abroad,acquiring and holding foreign securities and acquiring real estate abroad,undertaking other obligations abroad of similar effect. [8] SK: Entries being listed for transparency reasons. [9] PL: The footnote under market access is also applicable for national treatment. [10] The duration of "temporary stay" is defined by the Member States and, where they exist, Community laws and regulations regarding entry, stay and work.
These criteria are applied on a national treatment basis except for F. [25] Additional commitment: in I, professional association (no incorporation) among natural persons is permitted. [26] The Service involved relates to the profession of real estate agents and does not affect any rights and/or restrictions on natural and legal persons purchasing real estate. [27] The service specified constitutes only a part of the total range of activities covered by the CPC concordance. [28] LV: Service specified constitutes only a part of the total range of activities covered by the CPC concordance. [29] SI: Public utility exist; concession rights can be granted to the private operators established in the Republic of Slovenia. [30] The service involved excludes operation of mines. [31] A commitment on this mode of supply is not feasible. [32] A commitment on this mode of supply is not feasible. [33] Indicates that the service specified constitutes only a part of the total range of activities covered by the CPC concordance. [34] The commitment is listed according to the proposed classification that has been notified to WTO by the EC and its Member States on 23 March 2001 (WTO document S/CSS/W/61). [35] The term "handling" should be taken to include clearance, sorting, transport and delivery. [36] "Postal item" refers to items handled by any type of commercial operator, whether public or private. [37] "Items of correspondence": a communication in written form on any kind of physical medium to be conveyed and delivered at the address indicated by the sender on the item itself or on its wrapping.
I.HORIZONTAL COMMITMENTS | All sectors included in this schedule | | | | | 3.In all Member States [1] services considered as public utilities at a national or local level may be subject to public monopolies or to exclusive rights granted to private operators [2]. | 3.a)Treatment accorded to subsidiaries (of Chilean companies) formed in accordance with the law of a Member State and having their registered office, central administration or principal place of business within the Community is not extended to branches or agencies established in a Member State by a Chilean company.
However, this does not prevent a Member State from extending this treatment to branches or agencies established in another Member State by a Chilean company or firm, as regards their operation in the first Member State's territory, unless such extension is explicitly prohibited by Community law.b)Less favourable reatment may be accorded to subsidiaries (of Chilean companies) formed in accordance with the law of a Member State which have only their registered office or central administration in the territory of the Community, unless it can be shown that they possess an effective and continuous link with the economy of one of the Member States. | | | HU: Commercial presence should take the form of limited liability company, joint-stock company, or representative office.
Corresponding conditions prevail for establishment of all other types of legal entities. | | | Law on foreign companies' branches 3.SE: A foreign company (which has not established a legal entity in Sweden) shall conduct its commercial operations through a branch, established in Sweden with independent management and separate accounts.SE: Building projects with a duration of less than a year are exempted from the requirements of establishing a branch or appointing a resident representative. | Law on foreign companies' branches 3.SE: The managing director and at least 50 % of the members of the board shall reside within the EEA (European Economic Area).SE: The managing director of a branch shall reside within the EEA (European Economic Area) [3].SE: Foreign or Swedish citizens not residing in Sweden, who wishes to conduct commercial operations in Sweden, shall appoint and register with the local authority a resident representative responsible for such activities.SI: The establishment of branches by foreign companies is conditioned with the registration of the parent company in a court register in the country of origin for at least one year. | | | Legal Entities: 3.FI: Acquisition of shares by foreign owners giving more than one third of the voting rights of a major Finnish company or a major business undertaking (with more than 1000 employees or with a turnover exceeding Finnish markka 1000 million or with a balance sheet total exceeding EUR 167 million) is subject to confirmation by the Finnish authorities; the confirmation may be denied only if an important national interest would be jeopardised.FI: At least half of the founders of a limited company need to be resident either in Finland or in one of the other EEA (European Economic Area) countries.
Company exemptions may, however, be granted.PL: The establishment by foreign service suppliers may only take the form of limited partnership, limited liability company or joint stock company. | FI: A foreigner living outside the European Economic Area and carrying on a trade as a private entrepreneur or as a partner in a Finnish limited or general partnership needs a trade permit.
SK: A foreign natural person whose name is to be registered in the Commercial Register as a person authorised to act on behalf of the entrepreneur is required to submit residence permit for the Slovak Republic. | | | Real estate purchases: DK: Limitations on real estate purchase by non-resident physical and legal entities.
Limitations on agricultural estate purchased by foreign physical and legal entities.
LT: Unbound for the acquisition of land by juridical and natural persons.
LV: Unbound in relation to acquisition of land by juridical persons.
Ownership of real estate in the border areas of 10 km by companies in which majority of capital or voting rights belongs directly or indirectly to juridical persons or nationals of another Member is subject to special permission. | Real estate purchases: AT: The acquisition, purchase as well as rent or lease of real estate by foreign natural persons and legal persons requires an authorisation by the competent regional authorities (Länder) which will consider whether important economic, social or cultural interests are affected or not.
IE: Prior written consent of the Land Commission is necessary for the acquisition of any interest in Irish land by domestic or foreign companies or foreign nationals.
CZ: Limitations on real estate acquisition by foreign natural and legal entities.
Foreign entities may acquire real property through establishment of the Czech legal entities or participation in joint ventures.
LV: Unbound in relation to acquisition of land by juridical persons.
PL: Acquisition of real estate, direct and indirect, by foreigners and foreign legal persons requires permission | | | SK: None except for land (for modes 3 and 4) | SK: Limitations on real estate acquisition by foreign physical and legal entities.
Foreign entities may acquire real property through establishment of Slovak legal entities or participation in joint ventures.
FI (Åland Islands): Restrictions on the right of establishment and the right to provide services by natural persons who do not enjoy regional citizenship in Åland, or by any legal person, without permission by the competent authorities of the Åland Islands. | | | Investments: FR: Foreign purchases exceeding 33,33 % of the shares of capital or voting rights in existing French enterprise, or 20 % in publicly quoted French companies, are subject to the following regulation:after a period of one month following prior notification, authorisation is tacitly granted unless the Minister of Economic Affairs has, in exceptional circumstances, exercised its right to postpone the investment.FR: Foreign participation in newly privatised companies may be limited to a variable amount, determined by the government of France on a case by case basis, of the equity offered to the public.ES: Investment in Spain by foreign government and foreign public entities (which tends to imply, besides economic, also non-economic interests to entity's part), directly or through companies or other entities controlled directly or indirectly by foreign governments, need prior authorisation by the government.PT: Foreign participation in newly privatised companies may be limited to a variable amount, determined by the Government of Portugal on a case-by-case basis, of the equity offered to the public. | Investments: CY: Entities with foreign participation must have paid up capital commensurate with their finance requirements and non-residents must finance their contribution through the importation of foreign exchange.
In case the non-resident participation exceeds 24 per cent, any additional financing for working capital requirements or otherwise should be raised from local and foreign sources in proportion to the participation of residents and non-residents in the entity's equity.
FR: For establishing in certain [5] commercial, industrial or artisanal activities, a specific authorisation is needed if the managing director is not holder of a permanent residence permit. | MT: Companies with the participation of non-resident legal or natural persons are subject to the same capital requirement applicable to companies that are fully owned by residents as follows: private companies — Lm500 (with a minimum of 20 % as paid up capital); public companies — Lm20000 (with a minimum of 25 % paid up capital).
Foreign participation in all sectors/subsectors included in the Schedule of Commitments is normally limited up to 49 %.
The decision of the authorities to grant permission for foreign participation is based on an economic needs test, for which the following criteria are used in general:(a)Provision of services which are new to Cyprus(b)Promotion of the export orientation of the economy with development of existing and new markets(c)Transfer of modern technology, know-how and new management techniques(d)Improvement either of the productive structure of the economy or of the quality of existing products and services(e)Complementary impact on existing units or activities(f)Viability of proposed project(g)Creation of new job opportunities for scientists, qualitative improvement and training of local staff.In exceptional cases, in which a proposed investment satisfies most of the economic needs test criteria to a large extent, permission for foreign participation exceeding 49 % may be granted. | Subsidies Eligibility for subsidies from the Community or Member States may be limited to legal persons established within the territory of a Member State or a particular geographical sub-division thereof.
To the extent that any subsidies are made available to natural persons, their availability may be limited to nationals of a Member State. | | | In the case of public companies, foreign equity participation is normally allowed to the extent of up to 30 per cent.
In Mutual Funds the extent of allowable foreign ownership is 40 %.
MT: The Companies Act (Cap.386) regulating the supply of services by non-residents through the registration of a local company and the External Transactions Act (Cap. 233) which regulates the issue, acquisition, sale and redemption of securities not listed on the Malta Stock Exchange shall continue to apply. | | | | PL: Authorisation of the establishment of a company with foreign equity is required in the case of:establishment of company, purchase or acquiring of shares or stocks in an existing company; extending of the activity of the company when the scope of activity embraces at least one of the following areas: management of seaports and airports,dealing in real estate or acting as intermediary in real estate transactions,supply to defence industry that is not covered by other licensing requirements,wholesale trade in imported consumer goods,provision of legal advisory services,establishment of a joint-venture company with a foreign equity in which the Polish party is a state legal person and is contributing non-pecuniary assets as initial capital,arranging a contract, that includes right to use of state property for more than six months or decides on acquiring of such property.
In relation to capital payments, foreign exchange authorisation required for acceptance of financial credits from foreign subjects, direct capital investments abroad, acquisition of real estate abroad and purchase of foreign securities. | Exchange regime [9] 4.CY: Under the Exchange Control Law, non-residents are not normally permitted to borrow from local sources | | | 4.Unbound except for measures concerning the entry into and temporary stay [10] within a Member State, without requiring compliance with an economic needs test [11], of the following categories of natural persons providing services: | 4.Unbound except for measures concerning the categories of natural persons referred to in the Market Access column. | | | (i)the temporary presence, as intra-corporate transferee [12], of natural persons in the following categories, provided that the service supplier is a legal person and that the persons concerned have been employed by it or have been partners in it (other than as majority shareholders), for at least the year immediately preceding such movement: | Community directives on mutual recognition of diplomas do not apply to nationals of third countries.
In assessing such knowledge, account will be taken not only of knowledge specific to the establishment, but also of whether the person has a high level of qualification referring to a type of work or trade requiring specific technical knowledge, including membership of an accredited profession. | | | | (ii)the temporary presence of natural persons in the following categories: | | | | (a)Persons not residing in the territory of a Member State to which the EC treaties apply, who are representatives of a service supplier and are seeking temporary entry for the purpose of negotiating for the sale of services or entering into agreements to sell services for that service provider, where those representatives will not be engaged in making direct sales to the general public or in supplying services themselves (in addition, for EE, HU, LV, SI: or on their own behalf receive remuneration from a source located within the Member State concerned). | | | | (b)Persons working in a senior position, as defined in i) a) above, within a legal person, who are responsible for setting up in a Member State a commercial presence of a service provider of Chile when:the representatives are not engaged in making direct sale or supplying services (in addition, for EE, HU, LV, SI: or on their own behalf receive remuneration from a source located within the Member State concerned), andthe service provider has its principal place of business in the territory of Chile and has no other representative, office, branch or subsidiary in that Member State. | | | | FR: The managing director of an industrial, commercial or artisanal activity [13], if not holder of a residence permit, needs a specific authorisation. | | | | IT: Access to industrial, commercial and artisanal activities is subject to a residence permit and specific authorisation to pursue the activity. | | | II.1.FINANCIAL SERVICES-SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS (first part) [14] | 1.Part of the EC (AT, BE, CZ, DK, DE, ES, FI, FR, EL, HU, IE, IT, LU, NL, PT, SK, SE, UK) undertakes commitments on Financial Services in accordance with the provisions of the "Understanding on Commitments in Financial Services" attached (hereinafter referred to as the Understanding).
Commitments on Financial Services of the other part of the EC (CY, EE, LV, LT, MT, PL, SI) are not based on the Understanding and are in a second section.2.These commitments are subject to the limitations on market access and national treatment in the "all sectors" section of this schedule and to those relating to the subsectors listed below.3.The market access commitments in respect of modes 1 and 2 apply only to the transactions indicated in paragraphs B.3 and B.4 of the market access section of the Understanding respectively, except for Hungary, for which they apply only to the transactions indicated in paragraphs B.3 (a) and (b) and B.4 (a) and (b) respectively.4.Notwithstanding note 1 above, the market access and national treatment commitments in respect of mode (4) on financial services are those in the "all sectors" section of this schedule, except for the Czech Republic, Hungary, the Slovak Republic, and Sweden, in which case commitments are made in accordance with the Understanding.5.The admission to the market of new financial services or products may be subject to the existence of, and consistency with, a regulatory framework aimed at achieving the objectives indicated in Article 121.6.As a general rule and in a non-discriminatory manner, financial institutions incorporated in a Member State of the Community must adopt a specific legal form.7.HU: Insurance, banking, securities and collective investment management services should be performed by legally separate and independently capitalised suppliers of financial services, although banks may be authorised to provide services in the securities field as well.8.HU: It is intended to bind direct branching once it is bound in the GATS, and under the conditions set therein.9.HU: The board of a financial institution should include at least two members, who are Hungarian citizens, residents in the meaning of the relevant foreign exchange regulations and have permanent residency in Hungary for at least one year. | II.1.FINANCIAL SERVICES-SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS (first part) | A.Insurance and insurance-related services1.CZ: Compulsory motor third party liability insurance is provided by an exclusive supplier [15].
Fund pension insurance schemes and sickness insurance are confined to the Social Insurance Company. | | 1.AT: Promotional activity and intermediation on behalf of a subsidiary not established in the Community or of a branch not established in Austria (except for reinsurance and retrocession) are prohibited.AT: Compulsory air insurance can be underwritten only by a subsidiary established in the Community or by a branch established in Austria.
Exception from the higher tax can be granted. | Part of the EC (AT, BE, DK, DE, ES, FI, FR, EL, IE, IT, LU, NL, PT, SE, UK) undertakes additional commitments as contained in the "Additional commitments by part of the EC" attached. | | Authorisation is required for the intermediary in case of its intermediation activity to be exercised for a branch with registered office in the Czech Republic. | | | | DK: Compulsory air transport insurance can be underwritten only by firms established in the Community.
DK: No persons or companies (including insurance companies) may for business purposes in Denmark assist in effecting direct insurance for persons resident in Denmark, for Danish ships or for property in Denmark, other than insurance companies licensed by Danish law or by Danish competent authorities. | | | | DE: Compulsory air insurance policies can be underwritten only by a subsidiary established in the Community or by a branch established in Germany. | | | | DE: If a foreign insurance company has established a branch in Germany, it may conclude insurance contracts in Germany relating to international transport only through the branch established in Germany.
FR: Insurance of risks relating to ground transport may be carried out only by insurance firms established in the Community. | | | | IT: Transport insurance of goods, insurance of vehicles as such and liability insurance regarding risks located in Italy may be underwritten only by insurance companies established in the Community.
SE: The supply of direct insurance is allowed only through an insurance service supplier authorised in Sweden, provided that the foreign service supplier and the Swedish insurance company belong to the same group of companies or have an agreement of cooperation between them. | | | | 2.AT: Promotional activity and intermediation on behalf of a subsidiary not established in the Community or of a branch not established in Austria (except for reinsurance and retrocession) are prohibited.AT: Compulsory air insurance can be underwritten only by a subsidiary established in the Community or by a branch established in Austria. | 2.AT: Higher premium tax is due for insurance contracts (except for contracts on reinsurance and retrocession) which are written by a subsidiary not established in the Community or by a branch not established in Austria.
DK: No persons or companies (including insurance companies) may, for business purposes in Denmark, assist in effecting direct insurance for persons resident in Denmark, for Danish ships or for property in Denmark, other than insurance companies licensed by Danish law or by Danish competent authorities.
DE: Compulsory air insurance policies can be underwritten only by a subsidiary established in the Community or by a branch established in Germany. | | | | DE: If a foreign insurance company has established a branch in Germany, it may conclude insurance contracts in Germany relating to international transport only through the branch established in Germany.
FR: Insurance of risks relating to ground transport may be carried out only by insurance firms established in the Community.
IT: Transport insurance of goods, insurance of vehicles as such and liability insurance regarding risks located in Italy may be underwritten only by insurance companies established in the Community.
SK: Insurance services covered by mode 1, except insurance of air and maritime transport, covering goods, aircraft, hull and liability above may not be purchased abroad. | | | | 3.AT: The licence for branch offices of foreign insurers has to be denied if the insurer, in the home country, does not have a legal form corresponding or comparable to a joint stock company or a mutual insurance association.CZ: None other than: Foreign financial services suppliers may establish an insurance company with the seat in the Czech Republic in the form of a joint stock company or may exercise insurance activity through their branches with registered office in the Czech Republic under the conditions established in the Insurance Industry Act.Commercial presence and authorisation is required for the provider of insurance services:to provide such services including reinsurance, andto conclude intermediation contract with an intermediary aimed at the conclusion of insurance contract between the provider of insurance services and third party. | 3.SK: The majority of the management board of an insurance company has to be domiciled in the Slovak Republic.SE: Non-life insurance undertakings not incorporated in Sweden conducting business in Sweden are - instead of being taxed according to the net result - subject to taxation based on the premium income from direct insurance operations.
SE: A founder of an insurance company shall be a natural person resident in the European Economic Area or a legal entity incorporated in the European Economic Area. | | | Authorisation is required for the intermediary in case of its intermediation activity to be exercised for a branch with registered office in the Czech Republic. | | | | FI: The managing director, at least one auditor and at least one half of the promoters and members of the board of directors and the supervisory board of an insurance company shall have their place of residence in the European Economic Area, unless the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has granted an exemption.
Professional associations (no incorporation) among natural persons permitted.
Insurance business means insurance activity including brokerage and reinsurance activity. | | | | Intermediation activity aimed at the conclusion of an insurance contract between third party and the insurance company may be provided by natural or juridical persons who are domiciled in the Slovak Republic for the benefit of the insurance company having the license of the Insurance Supervisory Authority. | | | | Intermediation contract aimed at conclusion of an insurance contract by third party with the insurance company may be concluded by domestic or foreign insurance company only after a licence had been granted by the Insurance Supervisory Authority | | | | The financial resources of specific insurance funds of licensed insurance operators derived from insuring or reinsuring policy holders with residence or registered office in the Slovak Republic must be deposited in a resident bank in the Slovak Republic and may not be transferred abroad. | | | | SE: Insurance broking undertakings not incorporated in Sweden may establish a commercial presence only through a branch. | | | II.1.FINANCIAL SERVICES-SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS (first part) | | 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:EL: A majority of the members of the board of directors of a company established in Greece shall be nationals of one of the Member States of the Community. | 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:AT: The management of a branch office must consist of two natural persons resident in Austria.
Residents can trade on the RM-System Slovakia without any limitation and non-residents only through security dealers. | | | | (iii)Non-cash cross-border payments may be effected only by authorised domestic banks and branches of foreign banks in the Slovak Republic. | | | | (iv)Foreign exchange licence issued by the National Bank of Slovakia is required for:(a)opening an account abroad by a Slovak non-bank resident, except for the natural persons during their stay abroad;(b)capital payments abroad;(c)obtaining financial credit from a foreign exchange non-resident; except credits from abroad accepted by residents with a repayment period of more than three years and loans granted between natural persons for non-business activities. | | | | (v)Export and import of the Slovak currency and foreign exchange in cash exceeding value of SKK 150 000 and bullion, is subject to reporting requirement. | | | | (vi)Foreign exchange permission or licence granted by foreign exchange authorities is required for a deposit of financial assets by resident abroad. | | | | (vii)Only foreign exchange entities established in the Slovak Republic can grant and obtain guarantees and liabilities according to determined limit and provisions of the National Bank of Slovakia. | | | | 2. [17] CZ: Unbound for asset management.None other than: Only Czech established banks and branches of foreign banks having a corresponding licence may: | 2.None. | | | provide deposit servicestrade in foreign exchange assets;effect non-cash cross-border payments. | | | | Foreign exchange permit issued by the Czech National Bank or Ministry of Finance is required in case of Czech non-bank residents for: | | | | (a)opening and funding of an account abroad by Czech residents(b)capital payments abroad (except FDI)(c)granting financial credits and guarantees | | | | (d)operations in financial derivates(e)purchase of foreign securities except for the cases as described by the Foreign Exchange Act | | | | (f)issue of foreign securities for public and non-public trade in the Czech Republic or their introduction on the domestic market. | | | | FI: Payments from governmental entities (expenses) shall be transmitted through the Sampo Bank Ltd.
SK: Unbound for asset management. | | | | None other than: (i)Deposit services are confined to the domestic banks and branches of foreign banks in the Slovak Republic. | | | | (ii)Only authorised domestic banks, branches of foreign banks in the Slovak Republic and persons possessing a foreign exchange license may trade in foreign exchange assets.
Residents can trade on the RM-System Slovakia without any limitation and non-residents only through security dealers. | | | | (iii)Non-cash cross-border payments may be effected only by authorised domestic banks and branches of foreign banks in the Slovak Republic. | | | | (iv)Foreign exchange licence issued by the National Bank of Slovakia is required for:(a)opening an account abroad by a Slovak non-bank resident, except for the natural persons during their stay abroad;(b)capital payments abroad;(c)obtaining financial credit from a foreign exchange non-resident; except credits from abroad accepted by residents with a repayment period of more than 3 years and loans granted between natural persons for non-business activities. | | | | (v)Export and import of the Slovak currency and foreign exchange in cash exceeding value of SKK 150000 and bullion, is subject to reporting requirement. | | | | (vi)Foreign exchange permission or licence granted by foreign exchange authorities is required for a deposit of financial assets by resident abroad | | | | (vii)Only foreign exchange entities established in the Slovak Republic can grant and obtain guarantees and liabilities according to determined limit and provisions of the National Bank of Slovakia. | | | | 3.All Member States:The establishment of a specialised management company is required to perform the activities of management of unit trusts and investment companies.Only firms having their registered office in the Community can act as depositories of the assets of investment funds. | 3.SE: A founder of a banking company shall be a natural person resident in the European Economic Area or a foreign bank.
IT: Centralised deposit, custody and administration services can be provided only by entities duly authorised and supervised by the Consob in agreement with the Bank of Italy. | | | | IT: In the case of collective investment schemes other than harmonised UCITS under the directive 85/611/EEC, the trustee/depositary is required to be incorporated in Italy or in another Member State of the European Community, being established through a branch in Italy.
In the case of an investment limited partnership, at least one general partner must be incorporated in Ireland. | | | | IE: To become a member of a stock exchange in Ireland, an entity must either (i) be authorised in Ireland, which requires that it be incorporated or be a partnership, with a head/registered office in Ireland, or (ii) be authorised in another Member State in accordance with the EC Investment Services Directive.
IE: The provision of investment services or investment advice requires either (i) authorisation in Ireland, which normally requires that the entity be incorporated or be a partnership or a sole trader, in each case with a head/registered office in Ireland (the supervisory authority may also authorise branches of third country entities), or (ii) authorisation in another Member State in accordance with the EC Investment Services Directive.
Life insurance, non-life insurance (except marine, aviation and transport insurance), and reinsurance and retrocession: Unbound. | | | LV: Life insurance, non-life insurance and insurance intermediation: Unbound.
SI: Marine, aviation and transport insurance: Insurance activities provided by mutual insurance institutions are limited to incorporated companies established in the Republic of Slovenia. | 2.CY, EE, LV, LT: None.MT: Life insurance, non-life insurance, and reinsurance and retrocession: None.
Insurance intermediation and services auxiliary to insurance: For sole proprietors a residence in the Republic of Slovenia is required. | | | EE, LV, LT: None | | | | PL: Establishment in a form of joint stock company or a branch after obtaining a licence. | | | | No more than 5 % of insurance funds can be invested abroad.
Foreign persons can establish an insurance company only as a joint-venture with domestic person, where participation of foreign persons is limited up to 99 %. | | | | The limitation on the maximum foreign ownership shall be abolished with the adoption of the new Law on Insurance Companies. | | | | A foreign person may acquire or increase shares in a domestic insurance company subject to a prior approval of the Ministry of Finance. | | | | Ministry of Finance, when issuing a licence or approval of acquiring shares in a domestic insurance company, takes into account the following criteria:the dispersion of ownership of shares and the existence of shareholders from different countries,the supply of new insurance products and the transfer of related know how, if the foreign investor is an insurance company. | | | | Unbound for foreign participation in insurance company under privatisation. | | | | Membership of the mutual insurance institution is limited to companies established in the Republic of Slovenia and domestic natural persons | | | | Reinsurance and retrocession: Foreign participation in reinsurance company is limited up to a controlling share of the capital. (None, except for branches, upon the adoption of the new law on Insurance companies).
LV, PL: None. | | II.2.FINANCIAL SERVICES-SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS (second part) | B.Banking and other financial services (excluding insurance).1.CY: Direct or indirect ownership or voting rights in a bank by a person and his/her associates may not exceed 10 % unless with the prior written approval of the Central Bank.2.CY: Further to the above, in the three existing local banks listed in the stock exchange, direct or indirect shareholding or acquisition of stake in their capital by foreign persons is restricted to 0,5 % per individual or organisation and 6,0 % collectively.3.LV: Mode 4: Manager of a branch and a subsidiary of a foreign bank shall be a Latvian tax payer (resident).
MT: Subsectors (v) and (vi): None.
PL: Unbound, except for: Subsector (xv): None. | | (ix)Guarantees and commitments MT: Not committed.
MT: Subsectors (v) and (vi): None.
SI: None for subsector (xv) and (xvi).
SI: Excluding pension fund management. | SI: None for subsectors (xv) and (xvi).
An Authorised Management Company is established solely for the purpose of managing the authorised investment companies. | | | | Foreign persons may directly or indirectly acquire a maximum up to 10 % of shares or voting rights of Authorised (privatisation) Management Companies; for a larger percentage an approval of the Securities Market Agency is required with the consent of the Ministry of Economic Relations and Development. | | | | Investments of the Investments Funds into securities of foreign issuers are limited to 10 % of the investments of the Investments Funds.
Such securities shall be listed on those stock exchanges previously determined by the Securities Market Agency. | | | | Foreign persons may become shareholders or partners in a stock broking company up to 24 % of the capital of the stock broking company by prior approval of the Securities Market Agency. (Remark: this provision shall be abolished upon the adoption of the new Law on Securities Market). | | | | Securities of a foreign issuer which have not yet been offered in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia may only be offered by a stock broking company or a bank licensed to carry out such transactions.
Other financial services (a) In application of the relevant EC Directives, these Member States will make their best endeavours to consider within 12 months complete applications for licences to conduct banking activities, through the establishment in a Member State of a subsidiary in accordance with the legislation of that Member State, by an undertaking governed by the laws of Chile.
Commercial presence 3.
The Community shall grant financial service suppliers of Chile the right to establish or expand within its territory, including through the acquisition of existing enterprises, a commercial presence. 4.
Non-discriminatory measures 6.
When membership or participation in, or access to, any self-regulatory body, securities or futures exchange or market, clearing agency, or any other organisation or association, is required by the Community in order for financial service suppliers of Chile to supply financial services on an equal basis with financial service suppliers of the Community, or when the Community provides directly or indirectly such entities, privileges or advantages in supplying financial services, the Community shall ensure that such entities accord national treatment to Chilean financial service suppliers resident in its territory.
The following foreign exchange transactions require authorisation: - transfer of foreign exchange out of the country, - transfer of Polish currency into the country, - ownership transfer of the right to monetary assets between domestic and foreign persons, - granting and drawing of loans and credits by domestic persons in foreign exchange transactions, - fixing or executing payments in foreign currencies within Poland for acquired goods, real estate, property rights, services or labour, - opening and possessing of a banking account in a bank situated abroad, - acquiring and holding foreign securities and acquiring real estate abroad, - undertaking other obligations abroad of similar effect. [8] SK: Entries being listed for transparency reasons. [9] PL: The footnote under market access is also applicable for national treatment. [10] The duration of "temporary stay" is defined by the Member States and, where they exist, Community laws and regulations regarding entry, stay and work.
For category (ii), the length of stay is limited in the following Member States as follows: EE — 90 days per six month period; PL — three months; LT — three months a year; HU, LV, SI — 90 days. [11] All other requirements of Community and Member States' laws and regulations regarding entry, stay, work and social security measures shall continue to apply, including regulations concerning period of stay, minimum wages as well as collective wage agreements. [12] An "intra-corporate transferee" is defined as a natural person working within a legal person, other than a non-profit making organisation, established in the territory of Chile, and being temporarily transferred in the context of the provision of a service through commercial presence in the territory of a Member State; the legal persons concerned must have their principal place of business in the territory of Chile and the transfer must be to an establishment (office, branch or subsidiary) of that legal person, effectively providing like services in the territory of a Member State to which the EC Treaty applies. [13] Commercial, industrial or artisanal activities relate to sectors such as: other business services, construction, distribution and tourism services.
Member States may apply the restrictions indicated in this schedule only with regard to the direct establishment from Chilean of a commercial presence or to the provision of cross-border services from Chile; consequently, a Member State may not apply these restrictions, including those concerning establishment, to Chilean subsidiaries established in other Member States of the Community, unless these restrictions can also be applied to companies or nationals of other Member States in conformity with Community law. [15] CZ: When monopoly rights concerning compulsory motor third party liability insurance are removed, providing this service will be open on a non-discriminatory basis to Czech established service providers. [16] IT: Provision and transfer of financial information and financial data processing entailing trading of financial instruments may be prohibited where the protection of investors is likely to be seriously prejudiced.
Advisory activity should not include asset management. [17] IT: Authorised persons enabled to conduct collective asset management are deemed responsible for any investment activity conducted by their delegated advisers (Collective asset management, excluding UCITS). -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX VII AUTHORITIES RESPONSIBLE FOR FINANCIAL SERVICES Part A - For the Community and its Member States European Commission | DG Trade DG Internal Market | B-1049 Brussels | Austria | Ministry of Finance | Directorate Economic Policy and Financial Markets Himmelpfortgasse 4-8 Postfach 2 A-1015 Vienna | Belgium | Ministry of Economy | Rue de Bréderode 7 B-1000 Brussels | | Ministry of Finance | Rue de la Loi 12 B-1000 Brussels | Cyprus | Ministry of Finance | CY-1439 Nicosia | Czech Republic | Ministry of Finance | Letenská 15 CZ-118 10 Prague | Denmark | Ministry of Economic Affairs | Ved Stranden 8 DK-1061 Copenhagen K | Estonia | Ministry of Finance | Suur-Ameerika 1 EE-15006 Tallinn | Finland | Ministry of Finance | PO Box 28 FIN-00023 Helsinki | France | Ministry of Economy, Finance and Industry | Ministère de l'économie, des finances et de l'industrie 139, rue de Bercy F-75572 Paris | Germany | Ministry of Finance | Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht Graurheindorfer Str. 108 D-53117 Bonn | Greece | Bank of Greece | Panepistimiou Street, 21 GR-10563 Athens | Hungary | Ministry of Finance | Pénzügyminisztérium Postafiók 481 HU-1369 Budapest | Ireland | Irish Financial Services Regulatory Authority | PO Box 9138 College Green Dublin 2 Ireland | Italy | Ministry of Treasury | Ministero del Tesoro Via XX Settembre 97 I-00187 Rome | Latvia | Financial and Capital Market Commission | Kungu Street 1 LV-1050 Riga | Lithuania | Ministry of Finance | Vaizganto 8a/2, LT-01512 Vilnius | Luxembourg | Ministry of Finance | Ministère des Finances 3, rue de la Congrégation L-2931 Luxembourg | Malta | Financial Services Authority | Notabile Road MT-Attard | Netherlands | Ministry of Finance | Financial Markets Policy Directorate Postbus 20201 2500 EE The Hague The Netherlands | Poland | Ministry of Finance | ul. Świętokrzyska 12 PL-00-916 Warsaw | Portugal | Ministry of Finance | Direcção Geral dos Assuntos Europeus e Relações Internacionais Av.
Sector or subsector | Limitations on national treatment to establishment | 1.HORIZONTAL COMMITMENTS | All sectors included in this schedule | | | (a)Treatment accorded to subsidiaries (of Chilean companies) formed in accordance with the law of a Member State and having their registered office, central administration or principal place of business within the Community is not extended to branches or agencies established in a Member State by a Chilean company.
However, this does not prevent a Member State from extending this treatment to branches or agencies established in another Member State by a Chilean company or firm, as regards their operation in the first Member State's territory, unless such extension is explicitly prohibited by Community law | | (b)Treatment less favourable may be accorded to subsidiaries (of Chilean companies) formed in accordance with the law of a Member State which have only their registered office or central administration in the territory of the Community, unless it can be shown that they possess an effective and continuous link with the economy of one of the Member States. | | Formation of Legal Entity AT: Without prejudice to existing treaties, foreign natural persons may exercise a business on equal terms as Austrian nationals.
The managing director and at least 50 % of the members of the board shall reside within the EEA (European Economic Area).
SE: The managing director of a branch shall reside within the EEA (European Economic Area) [1].
SE: Foreign or Swedish citizens not residing in Sweden, who wish to conduct commercial operations in Sweden, shall appoint and register with the local authority a resident representative responsible for such activities.
An agency is required to be registered and run separate accountancy. | | SI: The establishment of branches by foreign companies is conditioned with the registration of the parent company in a court register in the country of origin for at least one year. | | Legal entities: AT: Only Austrian nationals or legal entities and enterprises having their seat in Austria may be shareholders of the Oesterreichische Nationalbank (Austrian National Bank).
FI: Acquisition of shares by foreign owners giving more than one third of the voting rights of a major Finnish company or a major business undertaking (with more than 1000 employees or with a turnover exceeding EUR 167 million or with a balance sheet total exceeding EUR 167 million) is subject to confirmation by the Finnish authorities; the confirmation may be denied only if an important national interest would be jeopardised.
If a foreign organisation or foundation is established under the laws of and has its registered office in an EEA-country no permit is required for carrying on a business or trade by establishing a branch in Finland. | | Real estate purchases: AT: The acquisition, purchase as well as rent or lease of real estate by foreign natural persons and juridical persons requires an authorisation by the competent regional authorities (Länder) which will consider whether important economic, social or cultural interests are affected or not.
CZ: The real estate can be acquired solely by natural persons having their permanent residence, and legal persons with their seat or branch in the territory of the Czech Republic.
DK: Limitations on real estate purchase by non-resident physical and legal entities.
Limitations on agricultural estate purchased by foreign physical and legal entities.
EL: According to Law No 1892/90, as amended by Law No 1969/91, acquisition of real estate in the border regions either directly or through equity participation in a company which is not listed in the Greek Stock Exchange and which owns real estate in those regions or any change in the persons of the stockholders of such company are subject to a permit issued by the competent authorities (Ministry of Defence in the case of non-EU natural or legal persons).
IE: Prior written consent of the Land Commission is necessary for the acquisition of any interest in Irish land by domestic or foreign companies or foreign nationals.
LT: Unbound in relation to acquisition of land by foreign subjects (natural and legal persons), however they may manage or use such property in accordance with the procedure established by Lithuanian laws.
LV: Unbound in relation to acquisition of land by juridical persons.
Ownership of real estate in the border areas of 10 km by companies in which majority of capital or voting rights belongs directly or indirectly to juridical persons or nationals of another Member is subject to special permission.
SK: Limitations on real estate acquisition by foreign physical and legal entities.
Foreign entities may acquire real property through establishment of Slovak legal entities or participation in joint ventures.
FI (Åland Islands): Restrictions on the right for natural persons who do not enjoy regional citizenship in Åland, and for legal persons, to acquire and hold real property on the Åland Islands without permission by the competent authorities of the islands.
FI (Åland Islands): Restrictions on the right of establishment and the right to provide services by natural persons who do not enjoy regional citizenship in Åland, or by any legal person, without permission by the competent authorities of the Åland Islands.
PL: Unbound, except for: buying independent apartment or buying real estate by a foreign national living in Poland at least for 5 years after obtaining the permanent residence card; buying by a legal person with a corporate seat in Poland and controlled directly or indirectly by a foreign natural person or a foreign legal person with a corporate seat abroad, for statutory objectives, of real estate without buildings, whose total area in Poland does not exceed 0,4 ha in urban area. | | Investments: CY: Portfolio investment: Investors from non-EU countries may invest only up to 49 % of the share capital of Cypriot companies listed on the Cyprus Stock Exchange.
In case the non-resident participation exceeds 24 %, any additional financing for working capital requirements or otherwise should be raised from local and foreign sources in proportion to the participation of residents and non-residents in the entity's equity.
FR: Foreign purchases exceeding 33,33 % of the shares of capital or voting rights in existing French enterprise, or 20 % in publicly quoted French companies, are subject to the following regulations: after a period of one month following prior notification, authorisation is tacitly granted for other investments unless the Minister of Economic Affairs has, in exceptional circumstances, exercised its right to postpone the investment.FR: Foreign participation in newly privatised companies may be limited to a variable amount, determined by the government of France on a case by case basis, of the equity offered to the public.
MT: Companies with the participation of non-resident legal or natural persons are subject to the same capital requirement applicable to companies that are fully owned by residents, as follows: private companies — Lm500 (with a minimum of 20 % as paid up capital); public companies — Lm200 (with a minimum of 25 % paid up capital).
PT: Foreign participation in newly privatised companies may be limited to a variable amount, determined by the Government of Portugal on a case by case basis, of the equity offered to the public. | | PL: Authorisation of the establishment of a company with foreign equity is required in the case of: establishment of company, purchase or acquiring of shares or stocks in an existing company; extending of the activity of the company when the scope of activity embraces at least one of the following areas:management of seaports and airports;dealing in real estate or acting as intermediary in real estate transactions;supply to defence industry that is not covered by other licensing requirements;wholesale trade in imported consumer goods;provision of legal advisory services.establishment of a joint-venture company with a foreign equity in which the Polish party is a state legal person and is contributing non-pecuniary assets as initial capital;arranging a contract, that includes right to use of state property for more than six months or decides on acquiring of such property. | | Exchange regime [3], [4], [5] CY: Under the Exchange Control Law, non-residents are not normally permitted to borrow from local sources.
Investors who furnish proof that they hold at least 25 % in a partnership (Personengesellschaft) or a public limited company (Gesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftung) and that they exert a decisive influence on that company are exempted from the Foreign Labour Act.
SK: Reservation on the acquisition of land for agricultural purposes and other land as set in the Foreign Exchange Act, unless an authorisation is granted. | B.Fishing | | 5.Fishing, operation of fish hatcheries and fish farms; excluding services. | AT: acquisition of 25 % or more of vessels registered in Austria.
BE: Reservation on the acquisition of Belgian flag vessels by shipping companies not having their principal office in Belgium.
F: reservation on the ownership after acquisition of more than 50 % of a French flag vessel, unless the vessel concerned is entirely owned by enterprises having their principal office in France.
EL: ownership of a vessel under the Greek flag is limited to 49 % for non-EU natural or legal persons.
PT: reservation on the ownership of Portuguese flag vessels other than through an enterprise incorporated in Portugal.
SE: reservation on the acquisition of 50 % or more of Swedish flag vessels, except through an enterprise incorporated in Sweden; establishment of, or acquisition of 50 % or more of shares in firms engaged in commercial fishing activities in Swedish waters, unless an authorisation is granted.
SK: Reservation on the ownership of Slovak flag vessels except through an enterprise incorporated in the Slovak Republic.
UK: Reservation on the acquisition of UK flagged vessels, unless the investment is at least 75 % owned by British citizens and/or by companies which are at least 75 % owned by British citizens, in all cases resident and domiciled in the UK.
The government can limit import and export of electricity and gas in the following cases: rights and obligations of producers and purchasers of electricity and gas are not similar or beyond to rights and obligations of producers and purchasers in the Slovak Republicthe precautions of individual producers relating to the protection of environment are not similar or beyond to the protection of environment carried out in the Slovak Republicthe import or export of electricity limits the use of electricity from renewable sources or from domestic coal sources. | [1] Exceptions from these requirements may be granted, if it can be proved that residency is not necessary [2] SI: According to the Law on Commercial Companies, a branch established in the Republic of Slovenia is not considered a juridical person, but as regards their operation, their treatment is equal to a subsidiary. [3] CZ: Non-discriminatory system of foreign exchange control is applied consisting of:(a) limitation on acquisition of foreign exchange by resident nationals for personal purposes,(b) foreign exchange authorisation in case of Czech residents for acceptance of financial credits from foreign subjects, direct capital investment abroad, acquisition of real estate abroad and purchases of foreign securities. [4] PL: There is non-discriminatory system of foreign exchange controls relating to limitations in foreign exchange turnover and to system of foreign exchange permits (general and individual) among others limitations of capital flows and currency payments.
The following foreign exchange transactions require authorisation:transfer of foreign exchange out of the country,transfer of Polish currency into the country,ownership transfer of the right to monetary assets between domestic and foreign persons,granting and drawing of loans and credits by domestic persons in foreign exchange transactions,fixing or executing payments in foreign currencies within Poland for acquired goods, real estate, property rights, services or labour,opening and possessing of a banking account in a bank situated abroad,acquiring and holding foreign securities and acquiring real estate abroad,undertaking other obligations abroad of similar effect. [5] SK: Entries being listed for transparency reasons. -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX IX COMMUNITY'S COVERAGE ON GOVERNMENT PROCUREMENT (referred to in Article 137 of the Association Agreement) Appendix 1 ENTITIES AT CENTRAL LEVEL ENTITIES WHICH PROCURE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF THIS TITLE SECTION 2 Contracting authorities of the State CZECH REPUBLIC 1.
Prokuratūra un tās pārraudzībā esošās iestādes (Prosecutor's Office and institutions under its supervision) LITHUANIA 1.
Ministeru għaż-Żgħażagħ u l-Kultura (Ministry for Youth and the Arts) POLAND 1.
Agencja Mienia Wojskowego (Agency for Military Property) [1] SLOVENIA 1.
Upravne enote (Local Administration Units) SLOVAKIA 1.
CZECH REPUBLIC: - Fond národního majetku (National Property Fund) - Pozemkový fond (Land Fund) - Other State funds - Česká národní banka (Czech National Bank) - Česká televize (Czech Television) - Český rozhlas (Czech Radio) - Rada pro rozhlasové a televizní vysílání (Council for Radio and Television Broadcasting) - Česká konsolidační agentura (Czech Consolidation Agency) - Health insurance agencies - Universities - Other legal entities established by a special Act which for their operation and in compliance with budget regulations use money from the State budget, State funds, contributions of international institutions, district authority budget, or budgets of self-governing territorial divisions.
ESTONIA: Bodies: - Eesti Kunstiakadeemia (Estonian Academy of Arts) - Eesti Liikluskindlustuse Fond (Estonian Traffic Insurance Foundation) - Eesti Muusikaakadeemia (Estonian Academy of Music) - Eesti Põllumajandusülikool (Estonian Agricultural University) - Eesti Raadio (Estonian Radio) - Eesti Teaduste Akadeemia (Estonian Academy of Sciences) - Eesti Televisioon (Estonian Television) - Hoiuste Tagamise Fond (Deposit Guarantee Fund) - Hüvitusfond (Compensation Fund) - Kaitseliidu Peastaap (Defence League Headquarters) - Keemilise ja Bioloogilise Füüsika Instituut (National Institute of Chemical Physics and Biophysics) - Keskhaigekassa (Central Health Insurance Fund) - Kultuurkapital (Cultural Endowment of Estonia) - Notarite Koda (The Chamber of Notaries) - Rahvusooper Estonia (Estonian National Opera) - Rahvusraamatukogu (National Library of Estonia) - Tallinna Pedagoogikaülikool (Tallinn Pedagogical University) - Tallinna Tehnikaülikool (Tallinn Technical University) - Tartu Ülikool (University of Tartu) Categories: - Other legal persons governed by public law whose public works contracts are subject to State control XVIII.
LATVIA: Categories: - Bezpeļņas organizācijas, kuras nodibinājusi valsts vai pašvaldība un kuras tiek finansētas no valsts vai pašvaldības budžeta (Non-profit-making organisations established by the State or a local government and which the State budget or a local government budget finances) - Specializētie bērnu sociālās aprūpes centri (Specialised social care centres for children) - Specializētie valsts sociālās aprūpes pansionāti (Specialised State social care homes for old people) - Specializētie valsts sociālās aprūpes un rehabilitācijas centri (Specialised State social care and rehabilitation centres) - Valsts bibliotēkas (State libraries) - Valsts muzeji (State museums) - Valsts teātri (State theatres) - Valsts un pašvaldību aģentūras (State and local government agencies) - Valsts un pašvaldību pirmsskolas izglītības iestādes, kuras reģistrētas Izglītības un zinātnes ministrijas izglītības iestāžu reģistrā (State and local government pre-school education institutions registered in the Register of Education Institutions at the Ministry of Education and Science) - Valsts un pašvaldību interešu izglītības iestādes, kuras reģistrētas Izglītības un zinātnes ministrijas izglītības iestāžu reģistrā (State and local government institutions of hobby/interest education registered in the Register of Education Institutions at the Ministry of Education and Science) - Valsts un pašvaldību profesionālās ievirzes izglītības iestādes, kuras reģistrētas Izglītības un zinātnes ministrijas izglītības iestāžu reģistrā (State and local government vocational education institutions registered in the Register of Education Institutions at the Ministry of Education and Science) - Valsts un pašvaldību vispārējās izglītības iestādes, kuras reģistrētas Izglītības un zinātnes ministrijas izglītības iestāžu reģistrā (State and local government general education institutions registered in the Register of Education Institutions at the Ministry of Education and Science) - Valsts un pašvaldību pamata un vidējās profesionālās izglītības iestādes un koledžas, kuras reģistrētas Izglītības un zinātnes ministrijas izglītības iestāžu reģistrā (State and local government basic and secondary vocational education institutions and colleges (first level higher professional education institutions) registered in the Register of Education Institutions at the Ministry of Education and Science) - Valsts un pašvaldību augstākās izglītības iestādes, kuras reģistrētas Izglītības un zinātnes ministrijas izglītības iestāžu reģistrā (State and local government higher education institutions registered in the Register of Education Institutions at the Ministry of Education and Science) - Valsts zinātniskās institūcijas (State scientific reasearch entities) - Valsts veselības aprūpes iestādes (State health care establishments) - Citi publisko tiesību subjekti, kuru darbība nav saistīta ar komercdarbību (Other bodies governed by public law not having a commercial character) XX.
Categories: - egyes központi és önkormányzati költségvetési szervek (certain budgetary organs) - alapítvány (foundation), társadalmi szervezet (civil society organisations), közhasznú társaság (public benefit company), biztosító egyesület (insurance association), víziközmű-társulat (public utility water works association) - business organisations established for the purpose of meeting needs in the general interest and controlled by public entities or financed mainly from the public budget.
SLOVENIA: - občine (local communities) - javni zavodi s področja vzgoje, izobraževanja ter športa (public institutes in the area of child care, education and sport) - javni zavodi s področja zdravstva (public institutes in the area of health care) - javni zavodi s področja socialnega varstva (public institutes in the area of security) - javni zavodi s področja kulture (public institutes in the area of culture) - javni zavodi s področja raziskovalne dejavnosti (public institutes in the area of science and research) - javni zavodi s področja kmetijstva in gozdarstva (public institutes in the area of agriculture and forestry) - javni zavodi s področja okolja in prostora (public institutes in the area of environment and spatial planning) - javni zavodi s področja gospodarskih dejavnosti (public institutes in the area of economic activities) - javni zavodi s področja malega gospodarstva in turizma (public institutes in the area of small enterprises and tourism) - javni zavodi s področja javnega reda in varnosti (public institutes in the area of public order and security) - agencije (agencies) - skladi socialnega zavarovanja (social security funds) - javni skladi na ravni države in na ravni občin (public funds at the level of the central government and local communities) - Družba za avtoceste v RS (Motorway Company in the Republic of Slovenia) - Pošta Slovenije (The Post Office of Slovenia) XXV.
ESTONIA Entities operating pursuant to Article 5 of the Public Procurement Act (RT I 2001, 40, 224) and Article 14 of the Competition Act (RT I 2001, 56332).
CYPRUS The Cyprus Ports Authority established by the Cyprus Ports Authority Law of 1973 (Η Αρχή Λιμένων Κύπρου, που εγκαθιδρύθηκε από τον περί Αρχής Λιμένων Κύπρου Νόμο του 1973).
LATVIA Authorities, which govern ports in accordance with the law "Likums par ostām": Rīgas brīvostas pārvalde (Rīga free port authority) Ventspils brīvostas pārvalde (Ventspils free port authority) Liepājas ostas pārvalde (Liepāja port authority) Salacgrīvas ostas pārvalde (Salacgrīva port authority) Skultes ostas pārvalde (Skulte port authority) Lielupes ostas pārvalde (Lielupe port authority) Engures ostas pārvalde (Engure port authority) Mērsraga ostas pārvalde (Mērsrags port authority) Pāvilostas pārvalde (Pāvilosta port authority) Rojas ostas pārvalde (Roja port authority).
LITHUANIA Valstybės įmonė "Klaipėdos valstybinio jūrų uosto direkcija" (State enterprise Klaipėda State Seaport Authority) operating pursuant to the Lietuvos Respublikos Klaipėdos valstybinio jūrų uosto įstatymas (Žin., 1996, No 53-1245).
Valstybės įmonė "Vidaus vandens kelių direkcija" (State enterprise Inland Waterways Administration) operating pursuant to the Lietuvos Respublikos vidaus vandenų transporto kodeksas (Žin., 1996, No 105-2393).
Other entities operating in the field of maritime or inland port or other terminal facilities and being in compliance with the provisions of Lietuvos Respublikos viešųjų pirkimų įstatymas (Žin., 2002, No 118-5296).
HUNGARY Public ports operated fully or partially by the State pursuant to Act XLII of 2000 on water transport (2000. évi XLII.
ESTONIA Entities operating pursuant to Article 5 of the Public Procurement Act (RT I 2001, 40, 224) and Article 14 of the Competition Act (RT I 2001, 56332).
LATVIA Valsts akciju sabiedrība "Latvijas gaisa satiksme" (State public limited liability company Latvijas gaisa satiksme).
Valsts akciju sabiedrība "Starptautiskā lidosta Rīga" (State public limited liability company International airport Rīga).
LITHUANIA Airports operating pursuant to the Lietuvos Respublikos aviacijos įstatymas (Žin., 2000, No 94-2918) and Lietuvos Respublikos civilinės aviacijos įstatymas (Žin., 2000, No 66-1983).
Other entities operating in the field of airport facilities and being in compliance with the provisions of Lietuvos Respublikos viešųjų pirkimų įstatymas (Žin., 2002, No 118-5296).
HUNGARY Airports operating on the basis of an authorisation pursuant to Act XCVII of 1995 on air traffic (1995. évi XCVII.
törvény a koncesszióról), Act XCVII of 1995 on air traffic (1995. évi XCVII.
törvény a légiközlekedésről), Decree No 45/2001. (XII. 20.) KöViM of the Minister of Transport and Water Management on winding-up the Air Traffic and Airport Administration and establishing HungaroControl Hungarian Air Navigation Services (45/2001. (XII. 20.) KöViM rendelet a Légiforgalmi és Repülőtéri Igazgatóság megszüntetéséről és a HungaroControl Magyar Légiforgalmi Szolgálat létrehozásáról).
MALTA L-Ajruport Internazzjonali ta Malta (Malta International Airport).
POLAND Przedsiębiorstwo Państwowe "Porty Lotnicze" (the State enterprise Polish Airports).
SLOVENIA Javna civilna letališča, skladno z Zakonom o letalstvu (Uradni list RS, 18/01).
Public civil airports that operate in accordance with Civil Aviation Act (Official Gazette of the Republic of Slovenia, No 18/01).
Airports — Letisko M.R. Štefánika, Letisko Košice — Barca, Letisko Poprad — Tatry, Letisko Sliač, Letisko Piešťany — managed by Slovenská správa letísk/Slovak Airports Administration/and operating on the basis of a licence issued by Ministry of Transport, Posts and Telecommunications of the Slovak Republic pursuant to paragraph 32 Act No 143/1998 Z.
