Article 2 Objectives The objectives of this Agreement are to ensure the long-term conservation and sustainable use of the fishery resources in the Area through cooperation among the Contracting Parties, and to promote the sustainable development of fisheries in the Area, taking into account the needs of developing States bordering the Area that are Contracting Parties to this Agreement, and in particular the least developed among them and small-island developing States.
Article 3 Area of application 1.
Where for the purpose of this Agreement it is necessary to determine the position on the surface of the Earth of a point, line or area, that position shall be determined by reference to the International Terrestrial Reference System maintained by the International Earth Rotation Service, which for most practical purposes is equivalent to the World Geodetic System 1984 (WGS84).
Article 5 Meeting of the parties 1.
Article 6 Functions of the meeting of the parties 1.
Article 7 Subsidiary bodies 1.
Article 8 Decision making 1.
Decisions on matters other than those referred to in paragraph 1 shall be taken by a simple majority of the Contracting Parties present and voting. 3.
Article 10 Contracting party duties 1.
Article 11 Flag state duties 1.
Article 12 Port State duties 1.
Article 13 Special requirements of developing States 1.
Article 14 Transparency 1.
Article 15 Fishing entities 1.
Articles 1 to 18 and 20.2 apply, mutatis mutandis, to such a fishing entity.
Article 16 Cooperation with other organizations The Contracting Parties, acting jointly under this Agreement, shall cooperate closely with other international fisheries and related organizations in matters of mutual interest, in particular with the South West Indian Ocean Fisheries Commission and any other regional fisheries management organization with competence over high seas waters adjacent to the Area.
Article 17 Non-Contracting Parties 1.
Contracting Parties shall take measures consistent with this Agreement, the 1995 Agreement and international law to deter the activities of vessels flying the flags of non-Contracting Parties to this Agreement which undermine the effectiveness of conservation and management measures adopted by the Meeting of the Parties or the attainment of the objectives of this Agreement. 2.
Article 18 Good faith and abuse of right Each Contracting Party shall fulfil in good faith the obligations assumed under this Agreement and shall exercise the rights recognized in this Agreement in a manner which would not constitute an abuse of right.
Article 20 Interpretation and settlement of disputes 1.
The relevant part of the 1982 Convention and the 1995 Agreement shall apply whether or not the parties to the dispute are also parties to either of these instruments. 2.
Article 21 Amendments 1.
The Depositary shall circulate a copy of this text to all other Contracting Parties promptly. 2.
Article 22 Signature ratification, acceptance and approval 1.
Article 23 Accession 1.
Article 24 Entry into force 1.
Article 25 The Depositary 1.
The Depositary shall transmit certified copies of this Agreement to all signatories and shall register this Agreement with the Secretary-General of the United Nations pursuant to Article 102 of the Charter of the United Nations. 2.
Article 26 Withdrawal Any Contracting Party may withdraw from this Agreement at any time after the expiration of two years from the date upon which the Agreement entered into force with respect to that Contracting Party, by giving written notice of such withdrawal to the Depositary who shall immediately inform all the Contracting Parties of such withdrawal.
Article 27 Termination This Agreement shall be automatically terminated if and when, as the result of withdrawals, the number of Contracting Parties drops below three.
Article 28 Reservations 1.
Nothing in paragraph 1 shall prevent a State or a regional economic integration organization on behalf of a State from making a reservation with regard to membership acquired through territories and surrounding maritime areas over which the State asserts its rights to exercise sovereignty or territorial and maritime jurisdiction.
DONE at … on this … day of …, … in English and French, both texts being equally authentic. --------------------------------------------------
