To this end, under the conditions laid down in this Agreement, non-State actors and local decentralised authorities shall, where appropriate:". 2.
The objectives of the dialogue shall also include preventing situations arising in which one Party might deem it necessary to have recourse to the consultation procedures envisaged in Articles 96 and 97."; (b) paragraph 6 shall be replaced by the following: "6.
The Parties agree that this provision constitutes an essential element of this Agreement. 2.
The consultations shall be conducted at the level and in the form considered most appropriate for finding a solution.
The consultations shall begin no later than 30 days after the invitation and shall continue for a period established by mutual agreement, depending on the nature and gravity of the violation.
In no case shall the dialogue under the consultation procedure last longer than 120 days. 6.
The following entities or bodies shall be eligible for financial support provided under this Agreement: (a) ACP States; (b) regional or inter-State bodies to which one or more ACP States belong, including bodies with non-ACP State members, which are authorised by those ACP States; and (c) joint bodies set up by the ACP States and the Community to pursue certain specific objectives. 2.
In this context, the least developed, landlocked and island, post-conflict and post natural disaster ACP States shall receive more favourable treatment.". 15.
Article 96 shall be amended as follows: (a) The following paragraph shall be inserted: "1a.
The consultations shall begin no later than 30 days after the invitation and shall continue for a period established by mutual agreement, depending on the nature and gravity of the violation.
These measures shall be revoked as soon as the reasons for taking them no longer prevail.". 17.
Annexes Ia, II, III, IV and VI may be revised, reviewed and/or amended by the Council of Ministers on the basis of a recommendation from the ACP-EC Development Finance Cooperation Committee.
By derogation from Article 58 of this Agreement, an amount of EUR 90 million shall be transferred to the intra ACP envelope under the 9th EDF.
For the purposes set out in this Agreement and for a period beginning on 1 March 2005, a multiannual financial framework of cooperation shall cover commitments beginning on 1 January 2008 for a period of five or six years. 2.
Annex II shall be amended as follows: (a) Article 2 shall be amended as follows: (i) paragraph 7 shall be replaced by the following: "7.
In such cases, the interest rate of the loan will be reduced by 3 %; (aa) for infrastructure projects by commercially-run public entities, that are prerequisites for private sector development in countries subject to restrictive borrowing conditions under the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) initiative or another internationally agreed debt sustainability framework.
However, the interest rate subsidy shall not be higher than 3 %.
The final rate of loans falling under (a) or (b) shall, in any case, never be less than 50 % of the reference rate."; (ii) paragraph 9 shall be replaced by the following: "9.
In addition, account shall be taken of the particular difficulties of countries dealing with the aftermath of conflict or natural disaster; and"; (ii) the following paragraph shall be added: "5.
Without prejudice to Article 5(7) concerning reviews, the Community may, in order to take account of special needs or exceptional performance, increase a country's allocation."; (b) Article 4 shall be amended as follows: (i) paragraph 1 shall be replaced by the following: "1.
The draft indicative programme shall contain: (a) the focal sector, sectors or areas on which support should be concentrated; (b) the most appropriate measures and operations for attaining the objectives and targets in the focal sector, sectors or areas; (c) the resources reserved for programmes and projects outside the focal sector(s) and/or the broad outlines of such activities, as well as an indication of the resources to be deployed for each of these elements; (d) the types of non-State actors eligible for funding, in accordance with the criteria laid down by the Council of Ministers, the resources allocated for non-State actors and the type of activities to be supported, which must be not-for-profit; (e) proposals for regional programmes and projects; and (f) a reserve for insurance against possible claims and to cover cost increases and contingencies."; (ii) paragraph 3 shall be replaced by the following: "3.
This indicative programme shall be annexed to the CSS and shall in addition contain: (a) specific and clearly identified operations, especially those that can be committed before the next review; (b) a timetable for implementation and review of the indicative programme, including commitments and disbursements of resources; and (c) the parameters and criteria for the reviews."; (iii) the following paragraph shall be added: "5.
The Commission and the ACP State concerned shall revert to normal implementation and normal management procedures as soon as the authorities responsible for managing cooperation are able to do so once more."; (c) Article 5 shall be amended as follows: (i) throughout this article, the term "Head of Delegation" shall be replaced by the term "Commission"; (ii) in paragraph 4, point (b) shall be replaced by the following: "(b) programmes and projects outside the focal sector(s);"; (iii) paragraph 7 shall be replaced by the following: "7.
Following the completion of the mid-term and end-of-term reviews, the Commission may, on behalf of the Community, revise the resource allocation in the light of current needs and performance of the ACP State concerned."; (d) In Article 6, paragraph 1 shall be replaced by the following: "1.
Regional cooperation shall cover operations benefiting and involving: (a) two or more or all ACP States as well as any non-ACP developing countries participating in these operations, and/or (b) a regional body of which at least two ACP States are members, including those with members which are non-ACP countries."; (e) Article 9 shall be replaced by the following: "Article 9 Resource allocation 1.
The Community may, in order to take account of new needs for increasing the impact of intra-ACP activities, increase the allocation for intra-ACP cooperation.".; (h) Article 13 shall be replaced by the following: "Article 13 Requests for financing 1.
Requests for financing of intra-ACP programmes shall be submitted by: (a) at least three duly mandated regional bodies or organisations belonging to different geographic regions, or at least two ACP States from each of the three regions; or (b) the ACP Council of Ministers, or the ACP Committee of Ambassadors; or (c) international organisations carrying out operations that contribute to the objectives of regional cooperation and integration, such as the African Union, subject to prior approval by the ACP Committee of Ambassadors."; (i) Article 14 shall be replaced by the following: "Article 14 Procedures for implementation 1. (deleted) 2. (deleted) 3.
Account being taken of the objectives and inherent characteristics of regional cooperation, including intra-ACP cooperation, operations undertaken in this sphere shall be governed by the procedures established for development finance cooperation where applicable. 4.
In particular and subject to paragraphs 5 and 6, any regional programme or project financed from the Fund shall give rise to: (a) either, in accordance with Article 17, a financing agreement drawn up between the Commission and one of the bodies mentioned in Article 13; in such cases, the relevant body shall designate a Regional Authorising Officer whose duties correspond mutatis mutandis with those of the National Authorising Officer; (b) or a grant contract as defined in Article 19a drawn up between the Commission and one of the bodies mentioned in Article 13, depending on the nature of the action and where the relevant body, other than an ACP State, is responsible for carrying out the programme or project. 5.
Programmes and projects financed from the Fund and for which requests for financing have been presented by international organisations in accordance with Article 13(2)(c) shall give rise to the drawing up of a grant contract. 6.
Programmes and projects financed from the Fund for which requests for financing have been presented by the ACP Council of Ministers or Committee of Ambassadors shall be implemented either by the ACP Secretariat, in which case a financing agreement shall be drawn up between the Commission and the Secretariat in accordance with Article 17, or by the Commission, depending on the nature of the action."; (j) In Chapter 3, the title shall be replaced by the following: "APPRAISAL AND FINANCING"; (k) Article 15 shall be replaced by the following: "Article 15 Identification, preparation and appraisal of programmes and projects 1.
Programmes and projects that have been presented by the ACP State concerned shall be subject to joint appraisal.
It shall also take into account the specific characteristics and constraints of each ACP State. 4.
The Commission, through the Head of Delegation, shall inform the National Authorising Officer of such allocated grants."; (l) Article 16 shall be replaced by the following: "Article 16 Financing proposal and decision 1.
The conclusions of the appraisal shall be summarised in a financing proposal, the final version of which shall be drawn up by the Commission in close collaboration with the ACP State concerned. 2. (deleted) 3. (deleted) 4.
Where the financing proposal is not adopted by the Commission on behalf of the Community, the ACP State concerned shall be informed immediately of the reasons for that decision.
Before any decision is taken, the ACP State concerned may forward to the Commission any facts which may appear necessary to supplement the information available to it."; (m) Article 17 shall be replaced by the following: "Article 17 Financing Agreement 1.
Save as otherwise provided for in this Agreement, for any programme or project financed from the Fund, a financing agreement shall be drawn up between the Commission and the ACP State concerned. 2.
The financing agreement shall be drawn up between the Commission and the ACP State concerned within 60 days of the decision taken by the Commission on behalf of the Community.
Any unexpended balance left upon closure of the accounts of programmes and projects shall accrue to the ACP State or States concerned."; (n) Article 18 shall be replaced by the following: "Article 18 Overrun 1.
If it is not possible to reduce the scale of the programme or project or to cover the over-runs with other resources, the Commission, acting on behalf of the Community, may, on the basis of a reasoned request from the National Authorising Officer, take an additional financing decision on resources from the indicative programme."; (o) Article 19 shall be replaced by the following: "Article 19 Retroactive financing 1.
Any expenditure referred to in paragraph 1 shall be mentioned in the financing proposal and shall be without prejudice to the financing decision taken by the Commission on behalf of the Community. 3.
The same rules apply for supplies and materials."; (s) Article 22 shall be replaced by the following: "Article 22 Derogations 1.
In exceptional duly substantiated circumstances, natural or legal persons from third countries not eligible under Article 20 may be authorised to participate in procedures for the awarding of procurement contracts or grants financed by the Community at the justified request of the ACP States concerned.
In the case of projects financed from the Investment Facility, the procurement rules of the Bank shall apply."; (t) Article 24 shall be replaced by the following: "Article 24 Implementation by direct labour 1.
Programme estimates implementing direct-labour operations must comply with the Community rules, procedures and standard documents laid down by the Commission, as applicable at the time of approval of the programme estimates."; (u) Article 26 shall be replaced by the following: "Article 26 Preferences 1.
Where two tenders are acknowledged to be equivalent on the basis of the criteria stated above, preference shall be given: (a) to the tenderer of an ACP State; or (b) if no such tender is forthcoming, to the tenderer who: (i) allows for the best possible use of the physical and human resources of the ACP States; (ii) offers the greatest subcontracting possibilities for ACP companies, firms or natural persons; or (iii) is a consortium of natural persons, companies and firms from ACP States and the Community."; (v) In Chapter 6, the title shall be replaced by the following: "FUND-RESOURCE MANAGEMENT AND EXECUTING AGENTS"; (w) Article 34 shall be replaced by the following: "Article 34 The Commission 1.
The Commission shall inform the ACP States and the ACP-EC Development Finance Cooperation Committee of this delegation of tasks."; (x) Article 35 shall be replaced by the following: "Article 35 National Authorising Officer 1.
The Head of Delegation shall be the main contact for ACP States and bodies or organisations eligible for financial support under the Agreement.
On a regular basis, the Head of Delegation shall inform the national authorities of Community activities which may directly concern cooperation between the Community and the ACP States."; (z) Article 37 shall be replaced by the following: "Article 37 Payments 1.
The consultations envisaged in Article 96(2)(a) will take place, except in cases of special urgency, after exhaustive political dialogue as envisaged in Article 8 and Article 9(4) of the Agreement. 2.
Article 2 Intensified Political Dialogue preceding consultations under Article 96 of the Agreement 1.
Political dialogue concerning respect for human rights, democratic principles and the rule of law shall be conducted pursuant to Article 8 and Article 9(4) of the Agreement and within the parameters of internationally recognised standards and norms.
Except for cases of special urgency as defined in Article 96(2)(b) of the Agreement, consultations under Article 96 may also go ahead without preceding intensified political dialogue, when there is persistent lack of compliance with commitments taken by one of the Parties during an earlier dialogue, or by a failure to engage in dialogue in good faith. 5.
Political dialogue under Article 8 of the Agreement shall also be utilised between the Parties to assist countries subject to appropriate measures under Article 96 of the Agreement, to normalise the relationship.
The Parties shall strive to promote equality in the level of representation during consultations under Article 96 of the Agreement. 2.
The Parties acknowledge the need for structured and continuous consultations under Article 96 of the Agreement.
