Article 2 Definitions For the purposes of this Agreement, the Protocol and the Annex: (a) "Moroccan fishing zone" means the waters falling within the sovereignty or jurisdiction of the Kingdom of Morocco; (b) "Moroccan authorities" means the Ministry of Agriculture, Rural Development and Sea Fisheries — Sea Fisheries Department; (c) "Community authorities" means the European Commission; (d) "Community vessel" means a fishing vessel flying the flag of a Member State of the Community and registered in the Community; (e) "Joint Committee" means a committee made up of representatives of the Community and Morocco whose functions are described in Article 10 of this Agreement.
Article 3 Principles and objectives underlying this Agreement 1.
Article 4 Scientific cooperation 1.
Based on the conclusions of the annual scientific meeting and the best available scientific advice, the parties shall consult each other within the Joint Committee provided for in Article 10 and, where necessary and by mutual agreement, take measures to ensure the sustainable management of fisheries resources. 3.
Article 5 Access by Community vessels to fisheries in Moroccan fishing zones 1.
Article 6 Conditions governing fishing activities 1.
The exercise of fishing activities by Community vessels shall be subject to the holding of a licence issued by the competent Moroccan authorities at the request of the competent Community authorities. 2.
Article 7 Financial contribution 1.
This contribution shall be composed of two related elements, namely: (a) a financial contribution for access by Community vessels to Moroccan fishing zones, without prejudice to the fees due by Community vessels for the licence fee; (b) Community financial support for introducing a national fisheries policy based on responsible fishing and on the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources in Moroccan waters. 2.
Article 8 Promoting cooperation among economic operators 1.
The parties shall encourage, in particular, the promotion of investments in their mutual interest, in compliance with Moroccan and Community law in force.
Article 9 Administrative cooperation The contracting parties, desirous of ensuring the effectiveness of the measures for the development and conservation of fishery resources, shall: - develop administrative cooperation with a view to ensuring that their vessels comply with the provisions of this Agreement and with Moroccan sea fisheries rules, each on its own behalf, - cooperate to prevent and combat illegal fishing, in particular through the exchange of information and close administrative cooperation.
Article 10 Joint Committee 1.
Article 11 Area of application This Agreement shall apply, on the one hand, to the territories in which the Treaty establishing the European Community applies, under the conditions laid down in that Treaty and, on the other, to the territory of Morocco and to the waters under Moroccan jurisdiction.
Article 13 Settlement of disputes The contracting parties shall consult each other on any dispute concerning the interpretation or application of this Agreement.
Article 14 Termination 1.
The Party concerned shall notify the other Party of its intention to withdraw from the Agreement in writing at least six months before the date of expiry of the initial period or each additional period. 3.
Dispatch of the notification referred to in paragraph 2 shall open consultations by the parties. 4.
Payment of the financial contribution referred to in Article 7 for the year in which the termination takes effect shall be reduced proportionately and pro rata temporis.
Payment of the financial contribution referred to in Article 7 shall be reduced proportionately and pro rata temporis to the duration of the suspension, without prejudice to Article 7(4) of the Protocol.
Article 16 The Protocol and the Annex and appendices thereto shall form an integral part of this Agreement.
Paragraph 1 shall apply subject to Articles 4 and 5 of this Protocol. 3.
Under Article 6 of the Agreement, vessels flying the flag of a Member State of the European Community may engage in fishing activities in Moroccan fishing zones only if they are in possession of a fishing licence issued under this Protocol in accordance with the Annex hereto.
Article 2 Financial contribution — Methods of payment For the period referred to in Article 1, the financial contribution referred to in Article 7 of the Agreement shall be EUR 144400000 [1]. 2.
Paragraph 1 shall apply subject to Articles 4, 5, 6 and 10 of this Protocol. 3.
The Community shall pay the financial contribution referred to in paragraph 1 at the rate of EUR 36100000 per year during the period of application of this Protocol. 4.
The Community shall pay the financial contribution no later than 30 June 2006 in the first year and no later than 1 March in the following years. 5.
Subject to Article 6 of this Protocol, the Moroccan authorities shall have full discretion regarding the use to which this financial contribution is put.
Article 3 Scientific coordination 1.
Based on the conclusions of the annual scientific meeting and the best available scientific advice, the parties shall consult each other within the Joint Committee provided for in Article 10 of the Agreement and, where necessary and by mutual agreement, take measures to ensure the sustainable management of fisheries resources.
Article 4 Review of fishing opportunities 1.
The fishing opportunities referred to in Article 1 may be increased by mutual agreement provided that the conclusions of the scientific meeting referred to in Article 3(2) confirm that such an increase will not endanger the sustainable management of Morocco's resources.
In this case the financial contribution referred to in Article 2(1) shall be increased proportionately and pro rata temporis.
However, the total amount of the financial contribution paid by the European Community shall not be more than twice the amount indicated in Article 2(1). 2.
Conversely, if the parties agree to adopt measures as referred to in Article 3(3) resulting in a reduction in the fishing opportunities provided for in Article 1, the financial contribution shall be reduced proportionally and pro rata temporis.
Without prejudice to Article 6 of this Protocol, this financial contribution could be suspended by the Community if the fishing effort laid down in this Protocol cannot be used in its entirety. 3.
The adjustments of fishing opportunities provided for in paragraph 1, the first sentence of paragraph 2, and paragraph 3 shall be decided by mutual agreement between the two parties in the Joint Committee provided for in Article 10 of the Agreement.
Article 6 Contribution of the Partnership Agreement to the introduction of a sectoral fisheries policy in Morocco 1.
EUR 13500000 per year of the amount of the financial contribution referred to in Article 2(1) of this Protocol shall be put towards defining and implementing a sectoral fisheries policy in Morocco with a view to introducing responsible fishing in its waters.
Of this amount, a total of EUR 10050000 per year shall be allocated by the Community as support as provided for in Article 7(1)(b) of the Agreement. 2.
Without prejudice to the identification of these objectives by the two parties and in accordance with the current priorities of Moroccan fisheries policy with a view to ensuring a sustainable and responsible management of the sector: (a) at least EUR 4,75 million per year of the amount provided for in paragraph 1 shall be allocated by Morocco to the modernisation and upgrading of the coastal fleet; (b) a sum of EUR 1,25 million per year shall be allocated to the programme to abolish driftnets; (c) the remainder shall be allocated by Morocco to the other elements of its fisheries policy, in particular: - scientific research, - restructuring of small-scale fishing, - upgrading of marketing channels and promotion of domestic consumption, - mechanisation of methods of landing and handling fish, - training, - support for professional organisations.
Article 7 Implementation of the support for the introduction of responsible fishing 1.
On a proposal from Morocco and for the purposes of implementing Article 6 of this Protocol, the Community and Morocco shall agree within the Joint Committee provided for in Article 10 of the Agreement, from the entry into force of the Protocol and no later than three months following its entry into force: (a) the annual and multiannual guidelines steering the implementation of the priorities of Moroccan fisheries policy aiming to introduce responsible fishing, and in particular those referred to in Article 6(2); (b) the annual and multiannual objectives to be achieved and the criteria and indicators to be used to permit an evaluation of the results obtained, on an annual basis. 2.
For each of the following years, Morocco shall notify the Community of this allocation no later than 30 September of the previous year. 4.
If evaluation of the results achieved at the mid-term of the Protocol so warrant, after consultation within the Joint Committee, the Community may request an adjustment of a maximum 50 % of the amount referred to in Article 6(1) of the Protocol so as to adapt the amount allocated by Morocco to the actual results achieved in terms of implementing its fisheries policy.
Article 8 Economic integration of Community operators in the Moroccan fisheries sector 1.
The two parties shall undertake to promote the economic integration of Community operators into the fishing industry in Morocco as a whole. 2.
Moreover, as an incentive, Morocco shall grant Community operators landing fish in Moroccan ports, in particular for the purposes of sales to local industries themselves, adding value to these products in Morocco or transporting catches made in Moroccan fishing zones by land, a reduction in the amount of fees, in accordance with the Annex. 4.
Article 9 Disputes — Suspension of application of the Protocol 1.
Any dispute between the parties over the interpretation of this Protocol or its application shall be the subject of consultations between the parties within the Joint Committee provided for in Article 10 of the Agreement, in a special meeting if necessary. 2.
Application of the Protocol may be suspended at the initiative of one party if the dispute between the two parties is deemed to be serious and if the consultations held within the Joint Committee under paragraph 1 have not resulted in an amicable settlement. 3.
Article 11 National law The activities of vessels operating under this Protocol and its Annex, in particular transhipment, the use of port services and the purchase of supplies, etc., shall be governed by the applicable national laws of Morocco.
Article 12 Entry into force This Protocol with its Annex shall enter into force on the date of the entry into force of the Agreement.
Table 1: Fishing opportunities Type of fishing | Small-scale fishing | Demersal fishing | Industrial pelagic fishing | Pelagic fishing/north: seine nets | Small-scale fishing/south: lines, poles, traps | Small-scale fishing/north: bottom longliners | Small-scale tuna fishing: pole-and-line vessels | Bottom longliners and bottom trawls, and deep-water multifilament fixed gillnets | C stock | | | | | | Tonnage 60000 tonnes | 20 vessels | 20 vessels | 30 vessels | 27 vessels | 22 vessels | | [1] To this amount are added the following resources: - within the framework of the MEDA programmes currently under way (business support programme, programme of support for professional associations, programme of support for the implementation of the Association Agreement), an overall sum of around EUR 3 million (over a period of four years) will be allocated to accompanying measures for operators in the fisheries sector (advice to enterprises and associations, access to loans for SMEs, etc.) and adaptation of the institutional and legislative framework, in partnership with the institutions and administrations of the Member States, - the amount of the fees due by shipowners in point 4 of Chapter I of the Annex, paid directly to Morocco into the account provided for in point 5 of Chapter I of the Annex, which is estimated at around EUR 3 400 000 per year. -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX Conditions governing fishing activities by community vessels in moroccan fishing zones CHAPTER I APPLICATION FOR AND ISSUE OF LICENCES 1.
Licence applications 1.
The relevant Community authorities shall submit to the Ministry of Agriculture, Rural Development and Sea Fisheries — Sea Fisheries Department (the Department) the lists of vessels applying to engage in fishing activities within the limits laid down in the datasheets annexed to the Protocol at least 20 days before the date of commencement of the validity of the licences requested. 4.
Individual applications shall be submitted to the Department on a form drawn up in accordance with the specimen in Appendix I. 6.
All licence applications shall be accompanied by the following documents: - a copy of the tonnage certificate, duly certified by the flag Member State, giving the tonnage of the vessel; - a recent, certified colour photograph, of at least 15 cm × 10 cm, showing a side view of the vessel in its current state; - proof of payment of fishing licence fees, other fees and the costs of observers; - any other documents or certificates required under the specific rules applicable to the type of vessel concerned under this Protocol. 2.
The periods of validity of the licences shall be as follows: - first period: from entry into force until 31 December 2006 - second period: from 1 January 2007 to 31 December 2007 - third period: from 1 January 2008 to 31 December 2008 - fourth period: from 1 January 2009 to 31 December 2009 - fifth period: from 1 January 2010 to the date of expiry of the Protocol. 2.
Annual fees for fishing licences shall be fixed by Moroccan legislation in force. 2.
Methods of payment Fishing licence fees, other fees and the costs of observers shall be payable, in the name of the Treasurer-General of Morocco, into bank account number 290 130 0065 A at the Bank Al Maghrib (Morocco) before the fishing licences are issued.
The fee for catches by pelagic trawlers shall be paid in quarterly instalments, at the end of the quarter following that in which those catches were made.
The fee shall be EUR 25 per tonne caught within Morocco's fishing zones. 2.
Licences shall be issued for one calendar year following payment of an advance of EUR 5000 per vessel. 3.
Masters of vessels holding licences for the fishing of highly migratory species shall keep an up-to-date logbook in line with the model in Appendix 6 of the Annex. 5.
They shall also forward a copy of that logbook to their competent authorities no later than 15 days before the end of the third month following the month to which it relates.
By 30 April each year the Delegation shall submit to the Department a statement of fees due for the previous fishing year on the basis of the catch declarations made by each shipowner and confirmed by the scientific institutes responsible for verifying catch data in the Member States, such as the IRD (Institut de recherche pour le développement), the IEO (Instituto Español de Oceanografía), the INIAP (Instituto Nacional de Investigação Agrária e das Pescas) and the INRH (Institut national de recherche halieutique). 7.
Payment, made out in euro in the name of the Treasurer-General of Morocco into the account mentioned in point 5 of Chapter I, shall be sent to the Department by the Delegation no later than one and a half months after that notification. 9.
Shipowners shall take all the necessary steps to ensure that the copies of the logbook are sent and any additional payments made within the deadlines given in points 6 and 7. 11.
Failure by the shipowner to comply with the obligations provided for in points 6 and 7 shall entail automatic suspension of the fishing licence until such obligations have been met.
CHAPTER III FISHING ZONES The fishing zones for each type of fishery in Morocco's Atlantic zone are defined in the datasheets (Appendix 2).
All fishing vessels with an overall length exceeding 15 metres operating under this Agreement shall be tracked by satellite when fishing in Moroccan fishing zones. 2.
The parties shall exchange information on X.25 addresses and the specifications for electronic data transmission between their Control Centres in accordance with points 5 to 7.
The position of vessels shall be determined with a margin of error of less than 500 metres and a confidence interval of 99 %. 5.
The messages specified in point 5 shall be transmitted electronically in X.25 format, or any other secure protocol.
They shall be communicated in real time in the format set out in Table II. 7.
Where the continuous satellite-tracking equipment installed on board a fishing vessel develops a technical fault or breaks down, the master of the vessel shall transmit the information specified in point 5 to the Control Centre of the flag State and to Morocco's FMC by fax in good time.
This global position report shall include the position reports as recorded by the master of the vessel on a two-hourly basis in accordance with the requirements laid down in point 5.
If the Moroccan FMC establishes that the flag State is not transmitting the information specified in point 5, the competent European Commission departments shall be informed immediately. 10.
Masters shall ensure that: - data are not altered in any way, - the antenna or antennas connected to the satellite-tracking equipment are not obstructed in any way, - the power supply of the satellite-tracking equipment is not interrupted in any way; and - the satellite-tracking equipment is not removed from the vessel. 12.
Any dispute over the interpretation or application of these provisions shall be the subject of consultation between the parties within the Joint Committee provided for in Article 10 of the Agreement. 14.
The parties agree to amend, if necessary, these provisions within the Joint Committee provided for in Article 10 of the Agreement.
CHAPTER VI CATCH REPORTING (1) Logbook 1.
Shipowners shall send a copy of the logbook to their competent authorities no later than 15 days before the end of the third month following the month to which it relates.
Failure by shipowners to comply with the obligations provided for in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall entail automatic suspension of the fishing licence until such obligations have been met. (2) Quarterly catch declarations 1.
This data shall also be sent to the Department in a computer file in a format compatible with software used by the Ministry. (3) Reliability of data The information in the documents referred to in points 1 and 2 above must reflect the actual fishing situation in order to constitute one of the bases for monitoring changes in stocks.
CHAPTER VII EMBARKING MOROCCAN SEAMEN 1.
Shipowners with fishing licences under this Agreement shall take on board, for the entire period of their presence in Moroccan waters, Moroccan seamen as follows: (a) pelagic trawlers - of less than 150 GT: voluntary embarkation of Moroccan seamen, - of less than 5000 GT: six seamen, - equal to or greater than 5000 GT: eight seamen.
Moroccan seamen's wages shall be paid by the shipowners.
Where no Moroccan seamen are taken on board for reasons other than that specified to in the previous point, shipowners shall be obliged to pay as soon as possible a flat-rate amount of EUR 20 per day of fishing in the Moroccan fishing zone per seaman within a maximum of three months.
CHAPTER VIII MONITORING AND OBSERVATION OF FISHING A.
Observation of fishing 1.
Industrial pelagic vessels shall take a scientific observer on board for the entire period of activity in Moroccan waters. 1.3.
Other Community fishing vessels of a tonnage not exceeding 100 GT shall be observed during a maximum of ten trips per year and per category of fishing. 1.4.
The Department shall inform the shipowners concerned, through the Delegation, of the name of the observer appointed to be taken on board their vessel at the time the licence is issued, or no later than 15 days before the observer's planned embarkation date. 2.
Observers shall be on board pelagic trawlers on a permanent basis.
The conditions under which observers are taken on board shall be agreed between shipowners or their agents and the Moroccan authorities. 4.
verify the position of vessels engaged in fishing operations; 9.3.
verify the catch data for Moroccan waters recorded in the logbook; 9.6.
report fishing data by fax or by radio, including the quantity of catches and by-catches on board. 10.
Failure by the shipowner to comply with the obligations laid down in point 4 shall result in automatic suspension of the fishing licence until such obligations have been met.
The practical arrangements for these operations will be laid down by mutual agreement between the competent authorities of the two parties.
CHAPTER IX MONITORING 1.
Technical inspection 2.1.
Once a year and after any alteration in tonnage or changes to the fishing category necessitating the use of a different type of gear, Community vessels covered by point 1 above shall report to the Moroccan port to undergo the inspections required by the legislation in force.
Failure by the shipowner to comply with points 2.1 and 2.2 above shall result in automatic suspension of the fishing licence until such obligations have been met. 3.
Control procedures 4.1.
Masters of Community fishing vessels engaged in fishing activities in Moroccan waters shall allow and facilitate boarding and the discharge of their duties by any Moroccan official responsible for the inspection and control of fishing activities. 4.2.
Settlement of boarding 7.1.
However, Community pelagic trawlers wishing to tranship catches in Moroccan waters shall do so in a Moroccan port or other place designated by the competent Moroccan authorities, after authorisation by the Department.
Before any transhipment, the owners of these vessels must notify the following information to the Department at least 24 hours in advance: - the names of the transhipping fishing vessels; - the names of the cargo vessels, their flags, registration numbers and call signs; - the tonnage by species to be transhipped; - the destination of catches; - the date and day of transhipment.
CHAPTER X LANDING OF CATCHES The contracting parties, aware of the benefits of increased integration with a view to joint development of their respective fisheries sectors, have agreed to adopt the following provisions concerning landing a proportion of the catches made by Community vessels in Moroccan waters in Moroccan ports.
Financial incentives: 1.
Community tuna vessels which opt to land their catches in a Moroccan port shall benefit from a reduction on the fee indicated on datasheet No 5 of EUR 2,50 per tonne fished in Moroccan waters.
This mechanism shall apply, for all Community vessels, up to a maximum 50 % of the final statement of catches (as defined in Chapter II of the Annex) from the first year of this Protocol.
Community pelagic vessels which choose to land a quantity above the 25 % of compulsory catches laid down in datasheet No 6 in a Moroccan port shall benefit from a reduction of 10 % of the fee for each tonne landed on a voluntary basis. 2.
Fishing datasheet No 3 Small-scale fishing/south Number of vessels authorised | 20 | Authorised gear | Line, pole and traps, limited to a maximum two types of gear per vessel.
Fishing datasheet No 6 Industrial pelagic fishing Authorised gear | Pelagic or semi-pelagic | Quota allocated | 60000 tonnes per year, maximum 10000 tonnes per month | Type of vessel: | Industrial pelagic trawler | Number of vessels authorised | Maximum: five to six vessels [1] over 3000 GT/vesseltwo to 3 vessels between 150-3000 GT/vessel10 vessels under 150 GT/vessel | Authorised total tonnage of vessels | Maximum: | Geographical limit | South of 29o N, beyond 15 nautical miles from the coasts calculated from the low-water line | Target species | Sardine, sardinella, mackerel, horse mackerel and anchovy | Landing requirement | Each vessel must land 25 % of their catches in Morocco | Biological recovery | Authorised fishing vessels must observe all biological recovery periods laid down by the Ministry in the authorised fishing zone and stop any fishing activity there.
The Moroccan authorities will notify this decision to the Commission in advance, specifying the period or periods for which there is a prohibition on fishing, and the areas concerned. | Authorised net | The minimum size of the stretched mesh of the pelagic or semi-pelagic trawl is 40 mm.
The bag of the pelagic or semi-pelagic trawl may be strengthened with a piece of netting with a minimum mesh size of 400 mm of stretched mesh and by straps placed at least 1,5 metres apart, except for the strap at the back of the trawl which may not be placed less than 2 metres from the window in the bag.
However, damaged or spoiled fish and the waste resulting from handling catches may be processed into fishmeal or fish oil without exceeding the maximum threshold of 5 % of total allowable catches. | Comments | The vessels fall into three categories: Category 1: gross tonnage not exceeding 3000 GT, ceiling of 12500 tonnes per year per vessel; Category 2: gross tonnage exceeding 3000 GT but not exceeding 5000 GT, ceiling of 17500 tonnes per year and per vessel; Category 3: gross tonnage exceeding 5000 GT, ceiling of 25000 tonnes per year and per vessel. | Number of vessels/fees: | Maximum number of vessels authorised to fish at the same time: 18.
Shipowner's fees per tonne of allowable catch: EUR 20 per tonne.
Shipowner's fees per tonne in excess of allowable catch: EUR 50 per tonne. | The fishing conditions for each category shall be agreed each year before the issue of licences.
Appendix 3 COMMUNICATION OF VMS MESSAGES TO MOROCCO POSITION REPORT Character set.
Data element | Code | Mandatory/optional | Comments | Start record | SR | M | System detail — indicates start of record | Recipient | AD | M | Message detail — destination party.
Alpha 3 ISO country code | From | FR | M | Message detail — sender.
FMC Fax Address X25 = X25 not used Declaration of entries/exits: via radio station (Appendix 8) Appendix 6 ICCAT LOGBOOK FOR TUNA FISHERY +++++ TIFF +++++ Appendix 7 FISHING LOG +++++ TIFF +++++ Appendix 8 DETAILS OF THE SEA FISHERIES DEPARTMENT RADIO STATION MMSI: | 242069000 | Call sign: | CNA 39 37 | Location: | Rabat | Frequency range: | 1,6 to 30 MHz | Class of transmission: | SSB-AIA-J2B | Transmission power: | 800 W | Working frequencies Bands | Channels | Transmission | Reception | Band 8 | 831 | 8285 kHz | 8809 kHz | Band 12 | 1206 | 12245 kHz | 13092 kHz | Band 16 | 1612 | 16393 kHz | 17275 kHz | Station operating hours Period | Times | Working days | from 08.30 to 16.30 | Saturday, Sunday and public holidays | from 09.30 to 14.00 | VHF: | Channel 16 | Channel 70 ASN | Radio Telex: | | | | Type: | DP-5 | | Class of transmission: | ARQ-FEC | | Number: | 31356 | Fax: | | | | Numbers | 212 37 68 82 13/45 | [1] This figure regarding the number of vessels may only be amended by agreement between the two parties.
Industrial pelagic fishing is managed by limiting the number of vessels fishing simultaneously. --------------------------------------------------
