Done at Brussels, 14 March 2003.
For the EEA Joint Committee The President P.
Westerlund (1) No constitutional requirements indicated.
ANNEX TO EEA JOINT COMMITTEE DECISION No 38/2003 %quot%PROTOCOL 4 ON RULES OF ORIGIN TABLE OF CONTENTS %gt%TABLE%gt% TITLE I GENERAL PROVISIONS Article 1 Definitions For the purposes of this Protocol: (a) %quot%manufacture%quot% means any kind of working or processing including assembly or specific operations; (b) %quot%material%quot% means any ingredient, raw material, component or part, etc., used in the manufacture of the product; (c) %quot%product%quot% means the product being manufactured, even if it is intended for later use in another manufacturing operation; (d) %quot%goods%quot% means both materials and products; (e) %quot%customs value%quot% means the value as determined in accordance with the 1994 Agreement on implementation of Article VII of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (WTO Agreement on customs valuation); (f) %quot%ex-works price%quot% means the price paid for the product ex works to the manufacturer in the EEA in whose undertaking the last working or processing is carried out, provided the price includes the value of all the materials used, minus any internal taxes which are, or may be, repaid when the product obtained is exported; (g) %quot%value of materials%quot% means the customs value at the time of importation of the non-originating materials used, or, if this is not known and cannot be ascertained, the first ascertainable price paid for the materials in the EEA; (h) %quot%value of originating materials%quot% means the value of such materials as defined in (g) applied mutatis mutandis; (i) %quot%value added%quot% shall be taken to be the ex-works price minus the customs value of each of the materials incorporated which originate in the countries referred to in Article 3 or, where the customs value is not known or cannot be ascertained, the first ascertainable price paid for the materials in the EEA; (j) %quot%chapters%quot% and %quot%headings%quot% mean the chapters and the headings (four-digit codes) used in the nomenclature which makes up the Harmonised Commodity Description and Coding System, referred to in this Protocol as %quot%the Harmonised System%quot% or %quot%HS%quot%; (k) %quot%classified%quot% refers to the classification of a product or material under a particular heading; (l) %quot%consignment%quot% means products which are either sent simultaneously from one exporter to one consignee or covered by a single transport document covering their shipment from the exporter to the consignee or, in the absence of such a document, by a single invoice; (m) %quot%territories%quot% includes territorial waters.
TITLE II DEFINITION OF THE CONCEPT OF %quot%ORIGINATING PRODUCTS%quot% Article 2 General requirements 1.
Notwithstanding paragraph 1, the territory of the Principality of Liechtenstein shall, until 1 January 2005, be excluded from that of the EEA, for the purpose of determining the origin of the products referred to in Tables I and II of Protocol 3 and such products shall be considered to be originating in the EEA only if they have been either wholly obtained or sufficiently worked or processed in the territories of the other Contracting Parties.
Article 3 Diagonal cumulation of origin 1.
Without prejudice to the provisions of Article 2, products shall be considered as originating in the EEA if such products are obtained there, incorporating materials originating in Bulgaria, Switzerland (including Liechtenstein)(1), the Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Iceland, Lithuania, Latvia, Norway, Poland, Romania, Slovenia, the Slovak Republic, Turkey(2) or in the Community in accordance with the provisions of the Protocol on rules of origin annexed to the Agreements between the Contracting Parties and each of these countries, provided that the working or processing carried out in the EEA goes beyond the operations referred to in Article 6.
It shall not be necessary that such materials have undergone sufficient working or processing. 2.
Where the working or processing carried out in the EEA does not go beyond the operations referred to in Article 6, the product obtained shall be considered as originating in the EEA only where the value added there is greater than the value of the materials used originating in any one of the countries referred to in paragraph 1.
If this is not so, the product obtained shall be considered as originating in the country which accounts for the highest value of originating materials used in the manufacture in the EEA. 3.
Products, originating in one of the countries referred to in paragraph 1, which do not undergo any working or processing in the EEA, retain their origin if exported into one of these countries. 4.
Article 4 Wholly obtained products 1.
The terms %quot%their vessels%quot% and %quot%their factory ships%quot% in paragraph 1(f) and (g) shall apply only to vessels and factory ships: (a) which are registered or recorded in a Member State of the Community or in an EFTA State; (b) which sail under the flag of a Member State of the Community or of an EFTA State; (c) which are owned to an extent of at least 50 % by nationals of a Member State of the Community or of an EFTA State, or by a company with its head office in one of these States, of which the manager or managers, Chairman of the Board of Directors or the Supervisory Board, and the majority of the members of such boards are nationals of a Member State of the Community or of an EFTA State and of which, in addition, in the case of partnerships or limited companies, at least half the capital belongs to those States or to public bodies or nationals of the said States; (d) of which the master and officers are nationals of a Member State of the Community or of an EFTA State; (e) of which at least 75 % of the crew are nationals of a Member State of the Community or of an EFTA State.
Article 5 Sufficiently worked or processed products 1.
For the purposes of Article 2, products which are not wholly obtained are considered to be sufficiently worked or processed when the conditions set out in the list in Annex II are fulfilled.
Notwithstanding paragraph 1, non-originating materials which, according to the conditions set out in the list, should not be used in the manufacture of a product may nevertheless be used, provided that: (a) their total value does not exceed 10 % of the ex-works price of the product; (b) any of the percentages given in the list for the maximum value of non-originating materials are not exceeded through the application of this paragraph.
This paragraph shall not apply to products falling within Chapters 50 to 63 of the Harmonised System. 3.
Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall apply subject to the provisions of Article 6.
Article 6 Insufficient working or processing 1.
Article 8 Accessories, spare parts and tools Accessories, spare parts and tools dispatched with a piece of equipment, machine, apparatus or vehicle, which are part of the normal equipment and included in the price thereof or which are not separately invoiced, shall be regarded as one with the piece of equipment, machine, apparatus or vehicle in question.
Article 9 Sets Sets, as defined in General Rule 3 of the Harmonised System, shall be regarded as originating when all component products are originating.
Nevertheless, when a set is composed of originating and non-originating products, the set as a whole shall be regarded as originating, provided that the value of the non-originating products does not exceed 15 % of the ex-works price of the set.
Article 10 Neutral elements In order to determine whether a product originates, it shall not be necessary to determine the origin of the following which might be used in its manufacture: (a) energy and fuel; (b) plant and equipment; (c) machines and tools; (d) goods which do not enter and which are not intended to enter into the final composition of the product.
TITLE III TERRITORIAL REQUIREMENTS Article 11 Principle of territoriality 1.
Except as provided for in Article 3, where originating goods exported from the EEA to another country return, they must be considered as non-originating, unless it can be demonstrated to the satisfaction of the customs authorities that: (a) the returning goods are the same as those exported; (b) they have not undergone any operation beyond that necessary to preserve them in good condition while in that country or while being exported. 3.
The acquisition of originating status in accordance with the conditions set out in Title II shall not be affected by working or processing done outside the EEA on materials exported from the EEA and subsequently reimported there, provided: (a) the said materials are wholly obtained in the EEA or have undergone working or processing beyond the operations referred to in Article 6 prior to being exported; (b) it can be demonstrated to the satisfaction of the customs authorities that: (i) the reimported goods have been obtained by working or processing the exported materials; (ii) the total added value acquired outside the EEA by applying the provisions of this Article does not exceed 10 % of the ex-works price of the end product for which originating status is claimed. 4.
For the purposes of paragraph 3, the conditions for acquiring originating status set out in Title II shall not apply to working or processing done outside the EEA.
But where, in the list in Annex II, a rule setting a maximum value for all the non-originating materials incorporated is applied in determining the originating status of the end product, the total value of the non-originating materials incorporated in the EEA, taken together with the total added value acquired outside the EEA by applying the provisions of this Article, shall not exceed the stated percentage. 5.
For the purposes of applying the provisions of paragraphs 3 and 4, %quot%total added value%quot% shall be taken to mean all costs arising outside the EEA, including the value of the materials incorporated there. 6.
The provisions of paragraphs 3 and 4 shall not apply to products which do not fulfil the conditions set out in the list in Annex II or which can be considered sufficiently worked or processed only if the general tolerance fixed in Article 5(2) is applied. 7.
The provisions of paragraphs 3 and 4 shall not apply to products of Chapters 50 to 63 of the Harmonised System. 8.
Article 12 Direct transport 1.
However, products constituting one single consignment may be transported through other territories with, should the occasion arise, trans-shipment or temporary warehousing in such territories, provided that they remain under the surveillance of the customs authorities in the country of transit or warehousing and do not undergo operations other than unloading, reloading or any operation designed to preserve them in good condition.
Article 13 Exhibitions 1.
Originating products, sent for exhibition in a country other than those referred to in Article 3 and sold after the exhibition for importation in the EEA shall benefit on importation from the provisions of the Agreement provided it is shown to the satisfaction of the customs authorities that: (a) an exporter has consigned these products from one of the Contracting Parties to the country in which the exhibition is held and has exhibited them there; (b) the products have been sold or otherwise disposed of by that exporter to a person in another Contracting Party; (c) the products have been consigned during the exhibition or immediately thereafter in the state in which they were sent for exhibition; (d) the products have not, since they were consigned for exhibition, been used for any purpose other than demonstration at the exhibition. 2.
Non-originating materials used in the manufacture of products originating in the EEA or in one of the countries referred to in Article 3 for which a proof of origin is issued or made out in accordance with the provisions of Title V shall not be subject in any of the Contracting Parties to drawback of, or exemption from, customs duties of whatever kind. 2.
The exporter of products covered by a proof of origin shall be prepared to submit at any time, upon request from the customs authorities, all appropriate documents proving that no drawback has been obtained in respect of the non-originating materials used in the manufacture of the products concerned and that all customs duties or charges having equivalent effect applicable to such materials have actually been paid. 4.
The provisions of paragraphs 1 to 3 shall also apply in respect of packaging within the meaning of Article 7(2), accessories, spare parts and tools within the meaning of Article 8 and products in a set within the meaning of Article 9 when such items are non-originating. 5.
TITLE V PROOF OF ORIGIN Article 15 General requirements 1.
Notwithstanding paragraph 1, originating products within the meaning of this Protocol shall, in the cases specified in Article 25, benefit from the Agreement without it being necessary to submit any of the documents referred to above.
Article 16 Procedure for the issue of a movement certificate EUR.1 1.
The exporter applying for the issue of a movement certificate EUR.1 shall be prepared to submit at any time, at the request of the customs authorities of the exporting country where the movement certificate EUR.1 is issued, all appropriate documents proving the originating status of the products concerned as well as the fulfilment of the other requirements of this Protocol. 4.
A movement certificate EUR.1 shall be issued by the customs authorities of a Member State of the Community or of an EFTA State if the products concerned can be considered as products originating in the EEA or in one of the countries referred to in Article 3 and fulfil the other requirements of this Protocol. 5.
The date of issue of the movement certificate EUR.1 shall be indicated in Box 11 of the certificate. 7.
Article 17 Movement certificates EUR.1 issued retrospectively 1.
Notwithstanding Article 16(7), a movement certificate EUR.1 may exceptionally be issued after exportation of the products to which it relates if: (a) it was not issued at the time of exportation because of errors or involuntary omissions or special circumstances; (b) it is demonstrated to the satisfaction of the customs authorities that a movement certificate EUR.1 was issued but was not accepted at importation for technical reasons. 2.
The customs authorities may issue a movement certificate EUR.1 retrospectively only after verifying that the information supplied in the exporter's application agrees with that in the corresponding file. 4. %gt%TABLE%gt% 5.
The endorsement referred to in paragraph 4 shall be inserted in the %quot%Remarks%quot% box of the movement certificate EUR.1.
Article 18 Issue of a duplicate movement certificate EUR.1 1.
The endorsement referred to in paragraph 2 shall be inserted in the %quot%Remarks%quot% box of the duplicate movement certificate EUR.1. 4.
The replacement movement certificate(s) EUR.1 shall be issued by the customs office under whose control the products are placed.
Article 19a Accounting segregation 1.
Article 20 Conditions for making out an invoice declaration 1.
An invoice declaration may be made out if the products concerned can be considered as products originating in the EEA or in one of the countries referred to in Article 3 and fulfil the other requirements of this Protocol. 3.
The exporter making out an invoice declaration shall be prepared to submit at any time, at the request of the customs authorities of the exporting country, all appropriate documents proving the originating status of the products concerned as well as the fulfilment of the other requirements of this Protocol. 4.
An invoice declaration shall be made out by the exporter by typing, stamping or printing on the invoice, the delivery note or another commercial document, the declaration, the text of which appears in Annex IV, using one of the linguistic versions set out in that Annex and in accordance with the provisions of the domestic law of the exporting country.
Article 21 Approved exporter 1.
The customs authorities shall monitor the use of the authorisation by the approved exporter. 5.
They shall do so where the approved exporter no longer offers the guarantees referred to in paragraph 1, no longer fulfils the conditions referred to in paragraph 2 or otherwise makes an incorrect use of the authorisation.
Article 22 Validity of proof of origin 1.
Article 23 Submission of proof of origin Proofs of origin shall be submitted to the customs authorities of the importing country in accordance with the procedures applicable in that country.
Article 24 Importation by instalments Where, at the request of the importer and on the conditions laid down by the customs authorities of the importing country, dismantled or non-assembled products within the meaning of General Rule 2(a) of the Harmonised System falling within Sections XVI and XVII or headings 7308 and 9406 of the Harmonised System are imported by instalments, a single proof of origin for such products shall be submitted to the customs authorities upon importation of the first instalment.
Article 25 Exemptions from proof of origin 1.
Furthermore, the total value of these products shall not exceed EUR 500 in the case of small packages or EUR 1200 in the case of products forming part of travellers' personal luggage.
Article 26 Supplier's declaration 1.
When a movement certificate EUR.1 is issued, or an invoice declaration is made out, in one of the Contracting Parties for originating products, in the manufacture of which goods coming from other Contracting Parties which have undergone working or processing in the EEA without having obtained preferential originating status have been used, account shall be taken of supplier's declaration given for these goods in accordance with this Article. 2.
A separate supplier's declaration shall, except in cases provided in paragraph 4, be made out by the supplier for each consignment of goods in the form prescribed in Annex V on a sheet of paper annexed to the invoice, the delivery note or any other commercial document describing the goods concerned in sufficient detail to enable them to be identified. 4.
The supplier shall inform his customer immediately in the long-term supplier's declaration is no longer applicable to the goods supplied. 5.
The supplier making out a declaration must be prepared to submit at any time, at the request of the customs authorities of the country where the declaration is made out, all appropriate documents proving that the information given on this declaration is correct.
Article 27 Supporting documents The documents referred to in Articles 16(3), 20(3) and 26(6) used for the purpose of proving that products covered by a movement certificate EUR.1 or an invoice declaration can be considered as products originating in the EEA or in one of the countries referred to in Article 3 and fulfil the other requirements of this Protocol may consist inter alia of the following: (a) direct evidence of the processes carried out by the exporter or supplier to obtain the goods concerned, contained for example in his accounts or internal bookkeeping; (b) documents proving the originating status of materials used, issued or made out in the Contracting Party where these documents are used in accordance with domestic law; (c) documents proving the working or processing of materials in the EEA, issued or made out in the Contracting Party, where these documents are used in accordance with domestic law; (d) movement certificates EUR.1 or invoice declarations proving the originating status of materials used, issued or made out in other Contracting Parties in accordance with this Protocol, or in one of the countries referred to in Article 3, in accordance with rules of origin which are identical to the rules in this Protocol; (e) suppliers' declaration proving the working or processing undergone in the EEA by materials used, made out in other Contracting Parties in accordance with this Protocol; (f) appropriate evidence concerning working or processing undergone outside the EEA by application of Article 11, proving that the requirements of that Article have been satisfied.
Article 28 Preservation of proof of origin, supplier's declaration and supporting documents 1.
The exporter applying for the issue of a movement certificate EUR.1 shall keep for at least three years the documents referred to in Article 16(3). 2.
The supplier making out a long-term supplier's declaration shall keep for at least three years copies of the declaration and of all the invoices, delivery notes or other commercial documents concerning goods covered by that declaration sent to the customer concerned, as well as the documents referred to in Article 26(6).
Article 29 Discrepancies and formal errors 1.
The discovery of slight discrepancies between the statements made in the proof of origin and those made in the documents submitted to the customs office for the purpose of carrying out the formalities for importing the products shall not ipso facto render the proof of origin null and void if it is duly established that this document does correspond to the products submitted. 2.
Article 30 Amounts expressed in euro 1.
For the application of the provisions of Article 20(1)(b) and Article 25(3) in cases where products are invoiced in a currency other than euro, amounts in the national currencies of the Member States of the Community and of the countries referred to in Article 3 equivalent to the amounts expressed in euro shall be fixed annually by each of the countries concerned. 2.
The rounded-off amount may not differ from the amount resulting from the conversion by more than 5 %.
A country may retain unchanged its national currency equivalent of an amount expressed in euro if, at the time of the annual adjustment provided for in paragraph 3, the conversion of that amount, prior to any rounding-off, results in an increase of less than 15 % in the national currency equivalent.
TITLE VI ARRANGEMENTS FOR ADMINISTRATIVE COOPERATION Article 31 Mutual assistance 1.
Article 32 Verification of proofs of origin 1.
Subsequent verifications of proofs of origin shall be carried out at random or whenever the customs authorities of the importing country have reasonable doubts as to the authenticity of such documents, the originating status of the products concerned or the fulfilment of the other requirements of this Protocol. 2.
These results must indicate clearly whether the documents are authentic and whether the products concerned can be considered as products originating in the EEA or in one of the countries referred to in Article 3 and fulfil the other requirements of this Protocol. 6.
Article 33 Verification of supplier's declaration 1.
Subsequent verifications of supplier's declarations or long-term supplier's declarations may be carried out at random or whenever the customs authorities of the country where such declaration have been taken into account to issue a movement certificate EUR.1 or to make out an invoice declaration have reasonable doubts as to the authenticity of the document or the correctness of the information given in this document. 2.
Article 34 Dispute settlement 1.
Where disputes arise in relation to the verification procedures of Articles 32 and 33 which cannot be settled between the customs authorities requesting a verification and the customs authorities responsible for carrying out this verification or where they raise a question as to the interpretation of this Protocol, they shall be submitted to the EEA Joint Committee. 2.
Article 35 Penalties Penalties shall be imposed on any person who draws up, or causes to be drawn up, a document which contains incorrect information for the purpose of obtaining a preferential treatment for products.
Article 36 Free zones 1.
By means of an exemption to the provisions contained in paragraph 1, when products originating in the EEA are imported into a free zone under cover of a proof of origin and undergo treatment or processing, the authorities concerned shall issue a new movement certificate EUR.1 at the exporter's request, if the treatment or processing undergone is in conformity with the provisions of this Protocol.
TITLE VII CEUTA AND MELILLA Article 37 Application of the Protocol 1.
The term EEA used in this Protocol does not cover Ceuta and Melilla.
The term %quot%products originating in the EEA%quot% does not cover products originating in Ceuta and Melilla. 2.
For the purpose of the application of Protocol 49 concerning products originating in Ceuta and Melilla, this Protocol shall apply mutatis mutandis subject to the special conditions set out in Article 38.
Article 38 Special conditions 1.
Ceuta and Melilla shall be considered as a single territory. 3.
The exporter or his authorised representative shall enter %quot%EEA%quot% and %quot%Ceuta and Melilla%quot% in Box 2 of movement certificates EUR.1 or on invoice declarations.
In addition, in the case of products originating in Ceuta and Melilla, this shall be indicated in Box 4 of movement certificates EUR.1 or on invoice declarations. 4.
The Spanish customs authorities shall be responsible for the application of this Protocol in Ceuta and Melilla. (1) The Principality of Liechtenstein has a customs union with Switzerland, and is a Contracting Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area. (2) Cumulation as provided for in this Article does not apply to materials originating in Turkey which are mentioned in the list at Annex VII.
Annex I Introductory notes to the list in Annex II Note 1: The list sets out the conditions required for all products to be considered as sufficiently worked or processed within the meaning of Article 5 of the Protocol.
Where, in some cases, the entry in the first column is preceded by an %quot%ex%quot%, this signifies that the rules in column 3 or 4 apply only to the part of that heading as described in column 2. 2.2.
Where there are different rules in the list applying to different products within a heading, each indent contains the description of that part of the heading covered by the adjacent rules in column 3 or 4. 2.4.
The provisions of Article 5 of the Protocol, concerning products having acquired originating status which are used in the manufacture of other products, shall apply, regardless of whether this status has been acquired inside the factory where these products are used or in another factory in the same country or another EEA country.
Example: An engine of heading 8407, for which the rule states that the value of the non-originating materials which may be incorporated may not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price, is made from %quot%other alloy steel roughly shaped by forging%quot% of heading ex 7224.
However, the expression %quot%Manufacture from materials of any heading, including other materials of heading ...%quot% or %quot%Manufacture from materials of any heading, including other materials of the same heading as the product%quot% means that materials of any heading(s) may be used, except those of the same description as the product as given in column 2 of the list. 3.4.
Example: The rule for fabrics of headings 5208 to 5212 provides that natural fibres may be used and that chemical materials, among other materials, may also be used.
Where a rule in the list specifies that a product must be manufactured from a particular material, the condition obviously does not prevent the use of other materials which, because of their inherent nature, cannot satisfy the rule. (See also Note 6.2 below in relation to textiles).
In other words, the maximum value of all the non-originating materials used may never exceed the higher of the percentages given.
The term %quot%natural fibres%quot% includes horsehair of heading 0503, silk of headings 5002 and 5003, as well as wool-fibres and fine or coarse animal hair of headings 5101 to 5105, cotton fibres of headings 5201 to 5203, and other vegetable fibres of headings 5301 to 5305. 4.3.
The term %quot%man-made staple fibres%quot% is used in the list to refer to synthetic or artificial filament tow, staple fibres or waste, of headings 5501 to 5507.
Where, for a given product in the list, reference is made to this Note, the conditions set out in column 3 shall not be applied to any basic textile materials used in the manufacture of this product and which, taken together, represent 10 % or less of the total weight of all the basic textile materials used. (See also Notes 5.3 and 5.4 below.) 5.2.
The following are the basic textile materials: - silk, - wool, - coarse animal hair, - fine animal hair, - horsehair, - cotton, - paper-making materials and paper, - flax, - true hemp, - jute and other textile bast fibres, - sisal and other textile fibres of the genus Agave, - coconut, abaca, ramie and other vegetable textile fibres, - synthetic man-made filaments, - artificial man-made filaments, - current-conducting filaments, - synthetic man-made staple fibres of polypropylene, - synthetic man-made staple fibres of polyester, - synthetic man-made staple fibres of polyamide, - synthetic man-made staple fibres of polyacrylonitrile, - synthetic man-made staple fibres of polyimide, - synthetic man-made staple fibres of polytetrafluoroethylene, - synthetic man-made staple fibres of poly(phenylene sulphide), - synthetic man-made staple fibres of poly(vinyl chloride), - other synthetic man-made staple fibres, - artificial man-made staple fibres of viscose, - other artificial man-made staple fibres, - yarn made of polyurethane segmented with flexible segments of polyether, whether or not gimped, - yarn made of polyurethane segmented with flexible segments of polyester, whether or not gimped, - products of heading 5605 (metallised yarn) incorporating strip consisting of a core of aluminium foil or of a core of plastic film whether or not coated with aluminium powder, of a width not exceeding 5 mm, sandwiched by means of a transparent or coloured adhesive between two layers of plastic film, - other products of heading 5605.
Example: A yarn, of heading 5205, made from cotton fibres of heading 5203 and synthetic staple fibres of heading 5506, is a mixed yarn.
Example: A woollen fabric, of heading 5112, made from woollen yarn of heading 5107 and synthetic yarn of staple fibres of heading 5509, is a mixed fabric.
Example: If the tufted textile fabric concerned had been made from cotton yarn of heading 5205 and synthetic fabric of heading 5407, then, obviously, the yarns used are two separate basic textile materials and the tufted textile fabric is, accordingly, a mixed product. 5.3.
In the case of products incorporating %quot%yarn made of polyurethane segmented with flexible segments of polyether, whether or not gimped%quot%, this tolerance is 20 % in respect of this yarn. 5.4.
In the case of products incorporating %quot%strip consisting of a core of aluminium foil or of a core of plastic film whether or not coated with aluminium powder, of a width not exceeding 5 mm, sandwiched by means of a transparent or coloured adhesive between two layers of plastic film%quot%, this tolerance is 30 % in respect of this strip.
Where, in the list, reference is made to this Note, textile materials (with the exception of linings and interlinings), which do not satisfy the rule set out in the list in column 3 for the made-up product concerned, may be used, provided that they are classified in a heading other than that of the product and that their value does not exceed 8 % of the ex-works price of the product. 6.2.
Without prejudice to Note 6.3, materials, which are not classified within Chapters 50 to 63, may be used freely in the manufacture of textile products, whether or not they contain textiles.
Example: If a rule in the list provides that, for a particular textile item (such as trousers), yarn must be used, this does not prevent the use of metal items, such as buttons, because buttons are not classified within Chapters 50 to 63.
Where a percentage-rule applies, the value of materials which are not classified within Chapters 50 to 63 must be taken into account when calculating the value of the non-originating materials incorporated.
For the purposes of headings ex 2707, 2713 to 2715, ex 2901, ex 2902 and ex 3403, the %quot%specific processes%quot% are the following: (a) vacuum-distillation; (b) redistillation by a very thorough fractionation-process; (c) cracking; (d) reforming; (e) extraction by means of selective solvents; (f) the process comprising all of the following operations: processing with concentrated sulphuric acid, oleum or sulphuric anhydride; neutralisation with alkaline agents; decolourisation and purification with naturally-active earth, activated earth, activated charcoal or bauxite; (g) polymerisation; (h) alkylation; (i) isomerisation. 7.2.
For the purposes of headings 2710, 2711 and 2712, the %quot%specific processes%quot% are the following: (a) vacuum-distillation; (b) redistillation by a very thorough fractionation-process; (c) cracking; (d) reforming; (e) extraction by means of selective solvents; (f) the process comprising all of the following operations: processing with concentrated sulphuric acid, oleum or sulphuric anhydride; neutralisation with alkaline agents; decolourisation and purification with naturally-active earth, activated earth, activated charcoal or bauxite; (g) polymerisation; (h) alkylation; (ij) isomerisation; (k) in respect of heavy oils of heading ex 2710 only, desulphurisation with hydrogen, resulting in a reduction of at least 85 % of the sulphur-content of the products processed (ASTM D 1266-59 T method); (l) in respect of products of heading 2710 only, deparaffining by a process other than filtering; (m) in respect of heavy oils of heading ex 2710 only, treatment with hydrogen, at a pressure of more than 20 bar and a temperature of more than 250 °C, with the use of a catalyst, other than to effect desulphurisation, when the hydrogen constitutes an active element in a chemical reaction.
For the purposes of headings ex 2707, 2713 to 2715, ex 2901, ex 2902 and ex 3403, simple operations, such as cleaning, decanting, desalting, water-separation, filtering, colouring, marking, obtaining a sulphur-content as a result of mixing products with different sulphur-contents, or any combination of these operations or like operations, do not confer origin.
Annex II List of working or processing required to be carried out on non-originating materials in order that the product manufactured can obtain originating status The products mentioned in the list may not be all covered by the Agreement.
It is, therefore, necessary to consult the other parts of the Agreement. %gt%TABLE%gt% Annex III Specimens of movement certificate EUR.1 and application for a movement certificate EUR.1 Printing instructions 1.
The paper used must be white, sized for writing, not containing mechanical pulp and weighing not less than 25 g/m2.
Greek version Ο εξαγωγέας των προϊόντων που καλύπτονται από το παρόν έγγραφο (άδεια τελωνείου υπ' αριθ. ...(9)) δηλώνει ότι, εκτός εάν δηλώνεται σαφώς άλλως, τα προϊόντα αυτά είναι προτιμησιακής καταγωγής ...(10).
Italian version L'esportatore delle merci contemplate nel presente documento (autorizzazione doganale n. ...(13)) dichiara che, salvo indicazione contraria, le merci sono di origine preferenziale ...(14).
Dutch version De exporteur van de goederen waarop dit document van toepassing is (douanevergunning nr. ...(15)), verklaart dat, behoudens uitdrukkelijke andersluidende vermelding, deze goederen van preferentiële ...
Portuguese version O abaixo assinado, exportador dos produtos cobertos pelo presente documento (autorização aduaneira n°. ...(17)), declara que, salvo expressamente indicado em contrário, estes produtos são de origem preferencial ...(18).
Finnish version Tässä asiakirjassa mainittujen tuotteiden viejä (tullin lupa n:o ...(19)) ilmoittaa, että nämä tuotteet ovat, ellei toisin ole selvästi merkitty, etuuskohteluun oikeutettuja ...
Swedish version Exportören av de varor som omfattas av detta dokument (tullmyndighetens tillstånd nr. ...(21)) försäkrar att dessa varor, om inte annat tydligt markerats, har förmånsberättigande ...
Icelandic version Útflytjandi framleiðsluvara sem skjal Þetta tekur til (leyfi tollyfirvalda nr...(23)), lýsir Því yfir að vörurnar séu, ef annars er ekki greinilega getið, af...
Norwegian version Eksportøren av produktene omfattet av dette dokument (tollmyndighetenes autorisasjonsnr...(25)) erklærer at disse produktene, unntatt hvor annet er tydelig angitt, har ...
When the invoice declaration relates in whole or in part, to products originating in Ceuta and Mellila, the exporter must clearly indicate them in the document on which the declaration is made out by means of the symbol %quot%CM%quot%. (3) When the invoice declaration is made out by an approved exporter, the authorisation number of the approved exporter must be enter in this space.
When the invoice declaration relates in whole or in part, to products originating in Ceuta and Mellila, the exporter must clearly indicate them in the document on which the declaration is made out by means of the symbol %quot%CM%quot%. (5) When the invoice declaration is made out by an approved exporter, the authorisation number of the approved exporter must be enter in this space.
When the invoice declaration relates in whole or in part, to products originating in Ceuta and Mellila, the exporter must clearly indicate them in the document on which the declaration is made out by means of the symbol %quot%CM%quot%. (7) When the invoice declaration is made out by an approved exporter, the authorisation number of the approved exporter must be enter in this space.
When the invoice declaration relates in whole or in part, to products originating in Ceuta and Mellila, the exporter must clearly indicate them in the document on which the declaration is made out by means of the symbol %quot%CM%quot%. (9) When the invoice declaration is made out by an approved exporter, the authorisation number of the approved exporter must be enter in this space.
When the invoice declaration relates in whole or in part, to products originating in Ceuta and Mellila, the exporter must clearly indicate them in the document on which the declaration is made out by means of the symbol %quot%CM%quot%. (11) When the invoice declaration is made out by an approved exporter, the authorisation number of the approved exporter must be enter in this space.
When the invoice declaration relates in whole or in part, to products originating in Ceuta and Mellila, the exporter must clearly indicate them in the document on which the declaration is made out by means of the symbol %quot%CM%quot%. (13) When the invoice declaration is made out by an approved exporter, the authorisation number of the approved exporter must be enter in this space.
When the invoice declaration relates in whole or in part, to products originating in Ceuta and Mellila, the exporter must clearly indicate them in the document on which the declaration is made out by means of the symbol %quot%CM%quot%. (15) When the invoice declaration is made out by an approved exporter, the authorisation number of the approved exporter must be enter in this space.
When the invoice declaration relates in whole or in part, to products originating in Ceuta and Mellila, the exporter must clearly indicate them in the document on which the declaration is made out by means of the symbol %quot%CM%quot%. (17) When the invoice declaration is made out by an approved exporter, the authorisation number of the approved exporter must be enter in this space.
When the invoice declaration relates in whole or in part, to products originating in Ceuta and Mellila, the exporter must clearly indicate them in the document on which the declaration is made out by means of the symbol %quot%CM%quot%. (19) When the invoice declaration is made out by an approved exporter, the authorisation number of the approved exporter must be enter in this space.
When the invoice declaration relates in whole or in part, to products originating in Ceuta and Mellila, the exporter must clearly indicate them in the document on which the declaration is made out by means of the symbol %quot%CM%quot%. (21) When the invoice declaration is made out by an approved exporter, the authorisation number of the approved exporter must be enter in this space.
When the invoice declaration relates in whole or in part, to products originating in Ceuta and Mellila, the exporter must clearly indicate them in the document on which the declaration is made out by means of the symbol %quot%CM%quot%. (23) When the invoice declaration is made out by an approved exporter, the authorisation number of the approved exporter must be enter in this space.
When the invoice declaration relates in whole or in part, to products originating in Ceuta and Mellila, the exporter must clearly indicate them in the document on which the declaration is made out by means of the symbol %quot%CM%quot%. (25) When the invoice declaration is made out by an approved exporter, the authorisation number of the approved exporter must be enter in this space.
Proofs of origin issued within the framework of the agreements referred to in Article 3 of Protocol 4 for products originating in the Community, Iceland or Norway shall be accepted for the purpose of granting preferential treatment provided for by the EEA Agreement. 2.
It shall not be necessary for such materials to have undergone sufficient processing or transformation. 3.
JOINT DECLARATION concerning the Principality of Andorra 1.
Products originating in the Principality of Andorra falling within Chapters 25 to 97 of the Harmonised System shall be accepted by Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway as originating in the EEA within the meaning of this Agreement. 2.
Protocol 4 shall apply mutatis mutandis for the purpose of defining the originating status of the abovementioned products.
JOINT DECLARATION concerning the Republic of San Marino 1.
Products originating in the Republic of San Marino shall be accepted by Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway as originating in the EEA within the meaning of this Agreement. 2.
Protocol 4 shall apply mutatis mutandis for the purpose of defining the originating status of the abovementioned products.
