Tanzania shall permit fishing by Community vessels in Tanzania's fishing zone in accordance with this Agreement. 2.
These fishing activities shall be subject to the laws of Tanzania.
Fishing activities by Community vessels in Tanzania's fishing zone under the present Agreement shall be subject to possession of a valid fishing licence. 2.
Article 5 The Parties undertake to coordinate action, either directly or within international organizations, to ensure the management and conservation of the living resources in the Indian Ocean, particularly in respect of highly migratory species, and to facilitate the relevant scientific research.
Article 6 Vessels authorized to fish in Tanzania's fishing zone under this Agreement shall be obliged to communicate to the Tanzanian authorities statements of catch and other relevant information in accordance with the provisions of the Annex.
The parties shall consult at least 30 days in advance regarding the date and agenda for meetings of the joint committee. 3.
Article 10 Nothing in this Agreement shall affect or prejudice in any manner the view of either Party with respect to any matter relating to the Law of the Sea.
Article 11 This Agreement shall apply, on the one hand, to the territories in which the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community is applied and under the conditions laid down in that Treaty and, on the other hand, to the territory of the United Republic of Tanzania.
Article 12 The Annex and the Protocol attached to this Agreement form an integral part of the Agreement and, unless otherwise specified, a reference to the Agreement shall also constitute a reference to them.
Article 14 This Agreement, drawn up in duplicate in the Danish, Dutch, English, French, German, Greek, Italian, Portuguese and Spanish languages, each of these texts being equally authentic, shall enter into force on the date of its signature.
Licence application and issuing formalities (a) The Commission of the European Communities shall present to the Tanzanian Ministry responsible for Fisheries via the Delegation of the Commission of the European Communities in Tanzania an application, made by the shipowner, for each vessel that wishes to fish under this Agreement, at least 30 days before the date of commencement of the period of validity requested.
They are renewable. (b) The fees shall be set at ECU 20 per tonne caught within Tanzania's fishing zone.
Licences shall be issued following advance payment to Tanzania of a lump sum of ECU 1 000 a year for each tuna seiner, equivalent to the fees for 50 tonnes of tuna caught within Tanzania's fishing zone per year and a lump sum of ECU 200 a year for each surface longliner equivalent to the fees for 10 tonnes of tuna and other migratory species caught within Tanzania's fishing zone per year.
Radio communications While they are engaged in fishing activities in Tanzania's fishing zone, vessels shall communicate their position and catches every three days.
Fishing zones Community vessels shall have access to all of Tanzania's fishing zone. 6.
Appendix 1 APPLICATION FOR LICENCE TO FISH FOR TUNA IN THE WATERS OF TANZANIA PART A 1.
Name of owner: ...... 2.
Nationality of owner: ...... 3.
PART B (To be completed for vessel) 1.
Period of validity: ...... 2.
Name of vessel: ...... 3.
Year of acquisition: ...... 7.
Port and Registration number: ...... 8.
Fishing method: ...... 9.
Radio call signal: ...... 11.
Overall length (m): ...... 12.
Depth (m): ...... 14.
Construction material of the hull: ...... 15.
Speed (knots): ...... 17.
Cabin capacity: ...... 18.
Fuel tanks capacity (m続): ...... 19.
Colour of the hull: ...... 21.
I certify that the above particulars are correct. ...... (Date:) ...... (Signature:) Appendice 2 CATCH AND EFFORT RECORD %gt%TABLE%gt% PROTOCOL setting out the fishing opportunities and financial payments provided for under the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the United Republic of Tanzania on fishing off Tanzania Article 1 1.
Pursuant to Article 2 of the Agreement, and for a period of three years from the date of its entry into force, the following fishing possibilities shall be accorded: - for ocean-going tuna seiners: licences for 46 vessels, - for surface longliners fishing for tuna and other migratory species: licences for eight vessels. 2.
In addition, consideration will be given, at the first or at a subsequent meeting of the joint committee referred to in Article 8 of the Agreement, to granting authorization for fishing possibilities for demersal and crustacean species on terms to be established by that committee including the corresponding Community financial compensation.
The financial compensation referred to in Article 7 of the Agreement should be set at ECU 1 050 000 for the duration of this Protocol, to be paid in three equal annual instalments. 2.
This amount shall cover the fishing activities referred to in Article 1 of the Agreement up to a catch-weight in Tanzania's fishing zone of 7 000 tonnes of tuna and other migratory species fished per year.
If the annual amount caught by Community vessels in Tanzania's fishing zone exceeds this quantity, the abovementioned compensations shall be increased by ECU 50 for each additional tonne caught. 3.
The Community shall also pay, during the period referred to in Article 1, a contribution of ECU 430 000 towards the financing of scientific and technical programmes (including equipment, infrastructure, etc.) in order to improve knowledge of fish stocks in Tanzania's fishing zone and the purchase and/or maintenance of equipment to improve the administrative structure relating to fisheries in Tanzania.
Of this amount, up to ECU 130 000 may be used, at the request of the Tanzanian authorities to cover Tanzania's contribution to international organizations responsible for fisheries management and/or research in the Indian Ocean. 2.
Of this amount, up to ECU 50 000 may be used, at the request of the Tanzanian authorities, to cover the cost of attending international meetings to fisheries.
