Article 3 Identity and place of residence of beneficial owners 1.
Article 5 Definition of competent authority For the purposes of this Agreement, the Contracting Parties’ "competent authorities" are those listed in Annex 1.
As regards paragraph 1(d), when a paying agent has no information concerning the percentage of the assets invested in debt claims or in shares or units as defined in that paragraph, that percentage shall be considered to be above 40 %.
Income from undertakings or entities that have invested no more than 15 % of their assets in the debt claims referred to in paragraph 1(a) shall not be considered an interest payment within the meaning of paragraph 1(c) and (d). 5.
After 31 December 2010 the percentage referred to in paragraph 1(d) and paragraph 3 shall be 25 %. 6.
The percentage referred to in paragraph 1(d) and in paragraph 5 shall be determined by reference to the investment policy laid down in the fund rules or instruments of incorporation of the undertakings or entities concerned or, failing that, by reference to the actual composition of the assets of the undertakings or entities concerned.
Article 7 Withholding tax 1.
Where the beneficial owner is resident in a Member State of the European Community, the Principality of Monaco shall levy a withholding tax at a rate of 15 % for the first three years from the date specified in Article 17, subject to the application of Article 14(2), a rate of 20 % for the subsequent three years and a rate of 35 % thereafter. 2.
Article 8 Sharing withholding tax 1.
The Principality of Monaco shall retain 25 % of the revenue generated by the withholding tax levied in accordance with Article 7 and transfer 75 % to the Member State of the European Community in which the beneficial owner of the interest is resident in accordance with Article 3(2)(b). 2.
Article 9 Voluntary disclosure 1.
The Principality of Monaco shall lay down a procedure allowing a beneficial owner within the meaning of Article 2 to avoid the withholding tax provided for in Article 7 by expressly authorising his paying agent established in the Principality of Monaco to disclose interest payments to the competent authority of the Principality of Monaco.
Article 10 Elimination of double taxation and/or repayment of withholding tax 1.
Article 12 Transmission of information on request 1.
In response to a duly substantiated request in accordance with paragraph 3, the requested State shall provide information on cases in which the requesting State has initiated administrative, civil or criminal proceedings in respect of the above acts, confining that information to savings income taxable in the requesting State.
Article 13 Consultation and review 1.
Consultations shall be held within one month of the request or as soon as possible in urgent cases. 5.
Article 14 Application and suspension of application 1.
The Contracting Parties shall decide, by common accord, at least six months before the date referred to in Article 17, whether the conditions set out in paragraph 1 are met with regard to the dates of entry into force of the relevant measures in the Member States of the European Community, the third countries and dependent or associated territories concerned.
Notwithstanding its institutional arrangements and subject to the above provisions, the Principality of Monaco shall implement this Agreement on the date referred to in Article 17 and notify this measure to the European Community. 4.
Article 18 Claims and final provisions 1.
Article 19 Territorial application This Agreement shall apply, on the one hand, to the territories in which the Treaty establishing the European Community applies and under the conditions laid down in that Treaty and, on the other hand, to the territory of the Principality of Monaco.
Article 21 Languages 1.
