This Agreement shall not have the effect of modifying the obligation to respect fundamental rights and fundamental legal principles as enshrined in the European Convention on Human Rights, or, in case of execution by the judicial authority of a Member State, of the principles referred to in Article 6 of the Treaty on European Union. 4.
Article 3 Scope 1.
Without prejudice to paragraphs 3 and 4, surrender shall be subject to the condition that the acts for which the arrest warrant has been issued constitute an offence under the law of the executing State, whatever the constituent elements or however it is described. 3.
Subject to Articles 4, 5(1)(b) to (g), 6, 7 and 8, in no case shall a State refuse to execute an arrest warrant issued in relation to the behaviour of any person who contributes to the commission by a group of persons acting with a common purpose of one or more offences in the field of terrorism referred to in Articles 1 and 2 of the European Convention on the Suppression of Terrorism and Articles 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the Framework Decision of 13 June 2002 on combating terrorism, illicit trafficking in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, or murder, grievous bodily injury, kidnapping, illegal restraint, hostage-taking and rape, punishable by deprivation of liberty or a detention order of a maximum of at least 12 months, even where that person does not take part in the actual execution of the offence or offences concerned; such contribution shall be intentional and made with the further knowledge that his or her participation will contribute to the achievement of the organisation's criminal activities. 4.
Norway and Iceland, on the one hand, and the EU, on behalf of any of its Member States, on the other hand may make a declaration to the effect that, on the basis of reciprocity, the condition of double criminality referred to in paragraph 2 shall not be applied under the conditions set out hereafter.
The following offences, if they are punishable in the issuing State by a custodial sentence or a detention order for a maximum period of at least three years and as they are defined by the law of the issuing State, shall, under the terms of this Agreement and without verification of the double criminality of the act, give rise to surrender pursuant to an arrest warrant: - participation in a criminal organisation, - terrorism, - trafficking in human beings, - sexual exploitation of children and child pornography, - illicit trafficking in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, - illicit trafficking in weapons, munitions and explosives, - corruption, - fraud, including that affecting the financial interests of the European Communities within the meaning of the Convention of 26 July 1995 on the protection of the European Communities' financial interests, - laundering of the proceeds of crime, - counterfeiting currency, including of the euro, - computer-related crime, - environmental crime, including illicit trafficking in endangered animal species and in endangered plant species and varieties, - facilitation of unauthorised entry and residence, - murder, grievous bodily injury, - illicit trade in human organs and tissue, - kidnapping, illegal restraint and hostage-taking, - racism and xenophobia, - organised or armed robbery, - illicit trafficking in cultural goods, including antiques and works of art, - swindling, - racketeering and extortion, - counterfeiting and piracy of products, - forgery of administrative documents and trafficking therein, - forgery of means of payment, - illicit trafficking in hormonal substances and other growth promoters, - illicit trafficking in nuclear or radioactive materials, - trafficking in stolen vehicles, - rape, - arson, - crimes within the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court, - unlawful seizure of aircraft/ships, - sabotage.
Article 5 Other grounds for non-execution of the arrest warrant 1.
Article 6 Political offence exception 1.
Norway and Iceland, on the one hand, and the European Union, on behalf of any of its Member States, on the other hand, may make, however, a declaration to the effect that paragraph 1 will be applied only in relation to: (a) the offences referred to in Articles 1 and 2 of the European Convention on the Suppression of Terrorism; (b) offences of conspiracy or association — which correspond to the description of behaviour referred to in Article 3(3) — to commit one or more of the offences referred to in Articles 1 and 2 of the European Convention on the Suppression of Terrorism; and (c) Articles 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the Framework Decision of 13 June 2002 on combating terrorism. 3.
Article 7 Nationality exception 1.
Article 9 Determination of the competent judicial authorities 1.
The issuing judicial authority shall be the judicial authority of the issuing State which is competent to issue an arrest warrant by virtue of the law of that State. 2.
Article 10 Recourse to the central authority 1.
Article 11 Content and form of the arrest warrant 1.
The arrest warrant shall contain the following information set out in accordance with the form contained in the Annex to this Agreement: (a) the identity and nationality of the requested person; (b) the name, address, telephone and fax numbers and e-mail address of the issuing judicial authority; (c) evidence of an enforceable judgement, an arrest warrant or any other enforceable judicial decision having the same effect, coming within the scope of Articles 2 and 3; (d) the nature and legal classification of the offence, particularly in respect of Article 3; (e) a description of the circumstances in which the offence was committed, including the time, place and degree of participation in the offence by the requested person; (f) the penalty imposed, if there is a final judgment, or the prescribed scale of penalties for the offence under the law of the issuing State; (g) if possible, other consequences of the offence. 2.
CHAPTER 2 SURRENDER PROCEDURE Article 12 Transmission of an arrest warrant 1.
The issuing judicial authority may, in any event, decide to issue an alert for the requested person in the Schengen Information System (SIS).
Article 13 Detailed procedures for transmitting an arrest warrant 1.
Article 14 Rights of a requested person 1.
Article 15 Keeping the person in detention When a person is arrested on the basis of an arrest warrant, the executing judicial authority shall take a decision on whether the requested person should remain in detention, in accordance with the law of the executing State.
Article 16 Consent to surrender 1.
Article 17 Hearing of the requested person Where the arrested person does not consent to his or her surrender as referred to in Article 16, he or she shall be entitled to be heard by the executing judicial authority, in accordance with the law of the executing State.
Article 18 Surrender decision 1.
If the executing judicial authority finds the information communicated by the issuing State to be insufficient to allow it to decide on surrender, it shall request that the necessary supplementary information, in particular with respect to Articles 4 to 6, 8 and 11, be furnished as a matter of urgency and may fix a time limit for the receipt thereof, taking into account the need to observe the time limits set in Article 20. 3.
The issuing judicial authority may at any time forward any additional useful information to the executing judicial authority.
Article 19 Decision in the event of multiple requests 1.
In the event of a conflict between an arrest warrant and a request for extradition presented by a third State, the decision as to whether the arrest warrant or the extradition request takes precedence shall be taken by the competent authority of the executing State with due consideration of all the circumstances, in particular those referred to in paragraph 1 and those mentioned in the applicable convention. 4.
Article 20 Time limits and procedures for the decision to execute the arrest warrant 1.
Where in specific cases the arrest warrant cannot be executed within the time limits laid down in paragraphs 2 or 3, the executing judicial authority shall immediately inform the issuing judicial authority thereof, giving the reasons for the delay.
Article 21 Situation pending the decision 1.
Article 22 Hearing the person pending the decision 1.
Article 23 Privileges and immunities 1.
Where the requested person enjoys a privilege or immunity regarding jurisdiction or execution in the executing State, the time limits referred to in Article 20 shall not start running unless, and counting from the day when, the executing judicial authority is informed of the fact that the privilege or immunity has been waived. 2.
Article 24 Competing international obligations This Agreement shall not prejudice the obligations of the executing State where the requested person has been extradited to that State from a third State and where that person is protected by provisions of the arrangement under which he or she was extradited concerning speciality.
The time limits referred to in Article 20 shall not start running until the day on which these speciality rules cease to apply.
Article 25 Notification of the decision The executing judicial authority shall notify the issuing judicial authority immediately of the decision on the action to be taken on the arrest warrant.
Article 26 Time limits for surrender of the person 1.
He or she shall be surrendered no later than 10 days after the final decision on the execution of the arrest warrant. 3.
Article 27 Postponed or conditional surrender 1.
The Contracting Parties shall notify each other of the authority designated for each State responsible for receiving transit requests and the necessary documents, as well as any other official correspondence relating to transit requests. 3.
The transit request and the information set out in paragraph 1 may be addressed to the authority designated pursuant to paragraph 2 by any means capable of producing a written record.
The State of transit shall notify its decision by the same procedure. 4.
However, if an unscheduled landing occurs, the issuing State shall provide the authority designated pursuant to paragraph 2 with the information provided for in paragraph 1. 5.
CHAPTER 3 EFFECTS OF THE SURRENDER Article 29 Deduction of the period of detention served in the executing State 1.
Article 30 Possible prosecution for other offences 1.
Except in the cases referred to in paragraphs 1 and 3, a person surrendered may not be prosecuted, sentenced or otherwise deprived of his or her liberty for an offence committed prior to his or her surrender other than that for which he or she was surrendered. 3.
A request for consent shall be submitted to the executing judicial authority, accompanied by the information mentioned in Article 11(1) and a translation as referred to in Article 11(2).
Consent shall be refused on the grounds referred to in Article 4 and otherwise may be refused only on the grounds referred to in Articles 5, or 6(2) and 7(2).
Article 31 Surrender or subsequent extradition 1.
Norway and Iceland, on the one hand, and the European Union, on behalf of any of its Member States, on the other hand, may notify each other that, for relations of States with other States to which the same notification applies, the consent for the surrender of a person to a State other than the executing State pursuant to an arrest warrant issued for an offence committed prior to his or her surrender is presumed to have been given, unless in a particular case the executing judicial authority states otherwise in its decision on surrender. 2.
In any case, a person who has been surrendered to the issuing State pursuant to an arrest warrant may, without the consent of the executing State, be surrendered to a State other than the executing State pursuant to an arrest warrant issued for any offence committed prior to his or her surrender in the following cases: (a) where the requested person, having had an opportunity to leave the territory of the State to which he or she has been surrendered, has not done so within 45 days of his final discharge, or has returned to that territory after leaving it; (b) where the requested person consents to be surrendered to a State other than the executing State pursuant to an arrest warrant.
For the situations referred to in Article 8, the issuing State must give the guarantees provided for therein. 4.
Notwithstanding paragraph 1, a person who has been surrendered pursuant to an arrest warrant shall not be extradited to a third State without the consent of the competent authority of the State which surrendered the person.
The property referred to in paragraph 1 shall be handed over even if the arrest warrant cannot be carried out owing to the death or escape of the requested person. 3.
If the property referred to in paragraph 1 is liable to seizure or confiscation in the territory of the executing State, the latter may, if the property is needed in connection with pending criminal proceedings, temporarily retain it or hand it over to the issuing State, on condition that it is returned. 4.
Article 33 Expenses 1.
CHAPTER 4 GENERAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS Article 34 Relation to other legal instruments 1.
Without prejudice to their application in relations between States and third States, this Agreement shall, from its entry into force, replace the corresponding provisions of the following conventions applicable in the field of extradition in relations between Norway and Iceland, on the one hand, and Member States, on the other hand: (a) the European Convention on Extradition of 13 December 1957, its additional protocol of 15 October 1975, its second additional protocol of 17 March 1978, and the European Convention on the suppression of terrorism of 27 January 1977 as far as extradition is concerned as amended by the 2003 Protocol once it will enter into force; (b) Title III, Chapter 4 of the Convention of 19 June 1990 implementing the Schengen Agreement of 14 June 1985 on the gradual abolition of checks at common borders; (c) Schengen-relevant provisions of the 1995 and 1996 EU Extradition Conventions to the extent that they are in force. 2.
The Contracting Parties shall notify each other of any such agreements or arrangements. 3.
States may conclude bilateral or multilateral agreements or arrangements after this Agreement has come into force in so far as such agreements or arrangements allow the prescriptions of this Agreement to be extended or enlarged and help to simplify or facilitate further the procedures for surrender of persons who are the subject of an arrest warrant, in particular by fixing time limits shorter than those fixed in Article 20, by extending the list of offences laid down in Article 3(4), by further limiting the grounds for refusal set out in Articles 4 and 5, or by lowering the threshold provided for in Article 3(1) or (4).
The Contracting Parties shall also notify each other of any such new agreement or arrangement as referred to in the first subparagraph, within three months of signing it. 4.
Where the conventions or agreements referred to in paragraph 1 apply to the territories of States or to territories for whose external relations a State is responsible to which this Agreement does not apply, these instruments shall continue to govern the relations existing between those territories and the other States.
Article 35 Transitional provision 1.
Article 36 Dispute settlement Any dispute between either Iceland or Norway and a Member State of the European Union regarding the interpretation or the application of this Agreement may be referred by a party to the dispute to a meeting of representatives of the governments of the Member States of the European Union and of Iceland and Norway, with a view to its settlement within six months.
Article 37 Case law The Contracting Parties, in order to achieve the objective of arriving at as uniform an application and interpretation as possible of the provisions of this Agreement, shall keep under constant review the development of the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Communities, as well as the development of the case law of the competent courts of Iceland and Norway relating to these provisions and to those of similar surrender instruments.
Article 38 Notifications, declarations, entry into force 1.
The Contracting Parties shall notify each other of the completion of the procedures required to express their consent to be bound by this Agreement. 2.
The declarations or notifications referred to in Articles 3(4), 10(1) and 11(2) may be made at any time.
Article 39 Accession Accession by new Member States to the European Union shall create rights and obligations under the present Agreement between those new Member States and Iceland and Norway.
Article 40 Common review The Contracting Parties agree to carry out a common review of this Agreement no later than five years after its entry into force, and in particular of the declarations made under Articles 3(4), 6(2), 7(2) and 20(5) of this Agreement.
Article 41 Termination 1.
Termination of this Agreement pursuant to paragraph 1 shall take effect six months after the deposit of the notification of termination.
Article 42 Depository 1.
The Secretary General of the Council of the European Union shall act as the depository of this Agreement. 2.
The depository shall make public information on any notification or declaration made concerning this Agreement.
