Article 2 Contracting Parties and consultative status 2.1.
Countries that are members of the Economic Commission for Europe (UN/ECE), regional economic integration organisations that are set up by ECE member countries and countries that are admitted to the ECE in a consultative capacity in accordance with paragraph 8 of the ECE's Terms of Reference, may become Contracting Parties to this Agreement. 2.2.
Countries that are members of the United Nations and that participate in certain activities of the ECE in accordance with paragraph 11 of the ECE's Terms of Reference, and regional economic integration organisations set up by such countries, may become Contracting Parties to this Agreement. 2.3.
Article 3 Eexecutive Committee 3.1.
Article 4 Criteria for technical regulations 4.1.
To be listed under Article 5 or established under Article 6, a technical regulation shall meet the following criteria: 4.1.1.
include: 4.1.3.1.
Article 5 Compendium of Candidate global technical regulations 5.1.
The request specified in paragraph 5.2 shall contain: 5.2.1.1.
The Executive Committee shall consider all requests that satisfy the requirements of Article 4 and paragraph 5.2.1 of this Article.
The technical regulation shall be listed in the Compendium of Candidates if supported by an affirmative vote in accordance with paragraph 7.1 of Article 7 of Annex B.
upon the establishment in the Global Registry of a global technical regulation embodying product requirements addressing the same elements of performance or design characteristics as the listed technical regulation; 5.3.2.
at the end of the five-year period following the regulation's listing under this Article, and at the end of each subsequent five-year period, unless the Executive Committee reaffirms, by an affirmative vote in accordance with paragraph 7.1 of Article 7 of Annex B, the listing of the technical regulation in the Compendium of Candidates; or 5.3.3.
Article 6 Registry of global technical regulations 6.1.
Establishing global technical regulations in the Global Registry through harmonisation of existing regulations A Contracting Party may submit a proposal to develop a harmonised global technical regulation concerning elements of performance or design characteristics addressed either by technical regulations listed in the Compendium of Candidates, or by any UN/ECE Regulations, or both. 6.2.1.
The proposal specified in paragraph 6.2 shall contain: 6.2.1.1.
a narrative description or, if available, the draft text of the proposed global technical regulation; 6.2.1.3.
available documentation that may facilitate the analysis of the issues to be addressed in the report required by paragraph 6.2.4.2.1 of this Article; 6.2.1.4.
a list of all technical regulations in the Compendium of Candidates, and any UN/ECE Regulations, that address the same elements of performance or design characteristics to be addressed by the proposed global technical regulation; and 6.2.1.5.
Each proposal specified in paragraph 6.2.1 of this Article shall be submitted to the Executive Committee. 6.2.3.
The Executive Committee shall not refer to any working party any proposal that it determines does not satisfy the requirements of Article 4 and paragraph 6.2.1 of this Article.
It may refer all other proposals to an appropriate working party. 6.2.4.
verifying whether the global technical regulation under development satisfies the stated objective of the regulation and the criteria in Article 4; and 6.2.4.1.6.
consider the establishment of a recommended global technical regulation in accordance with the procedures set forth in paragraph 7.2 of Article 7 of Annex B.
The Secretariat shall, upon the establishment of a global technical regulation by the Executive Committee, append copies of all relevant documentation, including the proposal submitted pursuant to paragraph 6.2.1 of this Article and the recommendations and report required by paragraph 6.2.4.2.1 of this Article, to that regulation. 6.3.
Establishing new global technical regulations in the Global Registry A Contracting Party may submit a proposal to develop a new global technical regulation concerning elements of performance or design characteristics not addressed by technical regulations in the Compendium of Candidates or UN/ECE Regulations. 6.3.1.
The proposal specified in paragraph 6.3 shall contain: 6.3.1.1.
any available documentation that may facilitate the analysis of the issues to be addressed in the report required by paragraph 6.3.4.2.1 of this Article; and 6.3.1.4.
Each proposal specified in paragraph 6.3.1 of this Article shall be submitted to the Executive Committee. 6.3.3.
The Executive Committee shall not refer to any working party any proposal that it determines does not satisfy the requirements of Article 4 and paragraph 6.3.1.
giving consideration to the objective of the proposed new global technical regulation and the need for establishing alternative levels of stringency or performance; 6.3.4.1.2.
verifying whether the new global technical regulation under development satisfies the stated objective of the Regulation and the criteria in Article 4; and 6.3.4.1.7.
a written report that presents its recommendation regarding the new global technical regulation, includes all technical data and information that were considered in the development of its recommendation, describes its consideration of the information specified in paragraph 6.3.4.1 of this Article, and sets forth the rationale for its recommendations, including an explanation for rejecting any alternative regulatory requirements and approaches considered; and 6.3.4.2.2.
consider the establishment of a recommended new global technical regulation in accordance with the procedures set forth in paragraph 7.2 of Article 7 of Annex B.
The Secretariat shall, upon the establishment of a new global technical regulation by the Executive Committee, append copies of all relevant documentation, including the proposal submitted pursuant to paragraph 6.3.1 of this Article and the recommendations and report required by paragraph 6.3.4.2.1 of this Article, to that Regulation. 6.4.
Amending established global technical regulations The process for amending any global technical regulation established in the Global Registry under this Article shall be the procedures specified in paragraph 6.3 of this Article for establishing a new global technical regulation in the Global Registry. 6.5.
Article 7 Adoption, and notification of application, of established global technical regulations 7.1.
A Contracting Party that votes in favour of establishing a global technical regulation under Article 6 of this Agreement shall be obligated to submit the technical regulation to the process used by that Contracting Party to adopt such a technical regulation into its own laws or regulations and shall seek to make a final decision expeditiously. 7.2.
If the established global technical regulation contains more than one level of stringency or performance, the notification shall specify which of those levels of stringency or performance is selected by the Contracting Party. 7.3.
The notification shall be provided within 60 days after its decision. 7.4.
A Contracting Party that is specified in paragraph 7.1 of this Article and that has not, by the end of the one-year period after the date of the establishment of the regulation in the Global Registry, either adopted that technical regulation or decided not to adopt the regulation into its own laws or regulations, shall provide a report on the status of the regulation in its domestic process.
A Contracting Party that accepts products that comply with an established global technical regulation without adopting that Regulation into its own laws or regulations shall notify the Secretary-General in writing of the date on which it began to accept such products.
The Contracting Party shall provide the notification within 60 days after the beginning of such acceptance.
If the established global technical regulation contains more than one level of stringency or performance, the notification shall specify which of those levels of stringency or performance is selected by the Contracting Party. 7.6.
A Contracting Party that has adopted into its own laws or regulations an established global technical regulation may decide to rescind or amend the adopted Regulation.
The Contracting Party shall notify the Secretary-General of its decision to adopt any amended or new regulation within 60 days after that decision.
Article 8 Issue resolution 8.1.
Where this process fails to resolve the issues, the Contracting Parties concerned may agree to request the Executive Committee to resolve the issue as provided in paragraph 7.3 of Article 7 of Annex B.
Article 9 Becoming a Contracting Party 9.1.
Countries and regional economic integration organisations specified in Article 2 may become Contracting Parties to this Agreement by either: 9.1.1.
after this Agreement has entered into force, each country or regional integration organisation shall give notification in accordance with Article 7 as to which, if any, global technical regulations) established pursuant to Article 6 it will adopt, and as to any decision to accept products that comply with any of those global technical regulations, without adopting those Regulations into its own laws or regulations.
If the established global technical regulation contains more than one level of stringency or performance, the notification shall specify which of those levels of stringency or performance is adopted or accepted by the Contracting Party. 9.3.2.
Regional economic integration organisations that are Contracting Parties shall cease being Contracting Parties when they lose the powers declared in accordance with paragraph 9.3.2 of this Article and shall inform the Secretary-General thereof.
This Agreement shall be open for signature beginning 25 June 1998. 10.2.
Article 11 Entry into force 11.1.
For any country or regional economic integration organisation that becomes a Contracting Party to the Agreement after its entry into force, this Agreement shall enter into force 60 days after the date that such country or regional economic integration organisation deposits its instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession.
Article 12 Withdrawal from Agreement 12.1.
A Contracting Party may withdraw from this Agreement by notifying the Secretary-General in writing. 12.2.
Article 13 Amendment of Agreement 13.1.
If there is a consensus vote in favour of the amendment by the Contracting Parties present and voting, it shall be communicated by the Executive Committee to the Secretary-General who shall then circulate the amendment to all Contracting Parties. 13.4.
Article 14 Depositary The Depository of this Agreement shall be the Secretary-General of the United Nations.
notifications received in accordance with Article 7. 14.4.
signatures, acceptances, and accessions in accordance with Articles 9 and 10. 14.5.
notifications received in accordance with Article 9. 14.6.
notifications received in accordance with Article 15 regarding territories.
Article 15 Extension of Agreement to territories 15.1.
Annex B Composition and rules of procedure of the executive committee Article 1 Membership in the Executive Committee shall be limited to Contracting Parties.
Article 2 All Contracting Parties shall be members of the Executive Committee.
If a regional economic integration organisation and one or more of its Member States are Contracting Parties to this Agreement, the regional economic integration organisation shall, in matters within its competence, exercice its right to vote with a numbr of votes equal to the number of its Member States that are Contracting Parties to this Agreement.
For purposes of determining a quorum under this Article, and determining the number of Contracting Parties needed to constitute one-third of the Contracting Parties present and voting under paragraph 7.1 of Article 7 of this Annex, a regional economic integration organisation and its Member States shall be counted as one Contracting Party.
The Chairman and Vice-Chairman shall be elected by a two-thirds affirmative vote of all Contracting Parties present and voting. 6.2.
Neither the Chairman, nor the Vice-Chairman, shall come from the same Contracting Party more than years in succession.
Article 8 Contracting Parties that abstain from voting are considered as not voting.
Article 9 The Executive Secretary shall convene the Executive Committee whenever a vote is required to be taken under Article 5, 6 or 13 of this Agreement or whenever necessary to conduct activities under this Agreement.
ANNEX II The European Community declares in matters within its competence that its Member States have transferred powers to it in fields covered by this Agreement, including the power to make binding decisions on them.
The Commission shall represent the Community in the Executive Committee as set up by Article 3 of the Parallel Agreement.
