Article 2 Means of cooperation 1.
Article 3 Enhancement of cooperation 1.
Article 4 Management of the AgreementEC-Egypt Joint Scientific and Technological Cooperation Committee 1.
Article 5 Financing The reciprocal participations in research activities under this Agreement shall be set according to the conditions defined in Annex I and shall be subject to legislation, regulations, policies and conditions of implementation of the programmes in force on the territory of each Party.
Article 6 Dissemination and use of the results and information The dissemination and use of the achieved and/or exchanged results as well as those of information, management, allocation and exercise of intellectual property rights resulting from the research activities undertaken under this Agreement shall be subject to the conditions provided for in Annex II.
Article 7 Final provisions 1.
Annexes I and II shall form an integral part of this Agreement.
Por la Comunidad Europea For Det Europæiske Fællesskab Für die Europäische Gemeinschaft Για την Ευρωπαϊκή Κοινότητα For the European Community Pour la Communauté européenne Per la Comunità europea Voor de Europese Gemeenschap Pela Comunidade Europeia Euroopan yhteisön puolesta För Europeiska gemenskapen Por el Gobierno de la República Árabe de Egipto På vegne af Den Arabiske Republik Egyptens regering Für die Regierung der Arabischen Republik Ägypten Για την Κυβέρνηση της Αραβικής Δημοκρατίας της Αιγύπτου For the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt Pour le gouvernement de la République arabe d’Égypte Per il Governo della Repubblica araba di Egitto Voor de regering van de Arabische Republiek Egypte Pelo Governo da República Árabe do Egipto Egyptin arabitasavallan hallituksen puolesta För Arabrepubliken Egyptens regering [1] OJ L 232, 29.8.2002, p. 1.
Participation of legal entities established in Egypt in indirect actions of the EC Framework programme shall follow the conditions laid down by the European Parliament and the Council according to Article 167 of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
In addition, legal entities established in Egypt may participate in indirect actions undertaken according to Article 164 of the Treaty establishing the European Community. 2.
The Community may grant funding to legal entities established in Egypt participating in indirect actions referred to in paragraph 1 under the terms and conditions laid down by the decision taken by the European Parliament and the Council according to Article 167 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, the European Community’s Financial Regulations and any other applicable Community legislation. 3.
Subject to paragraph 1 and to Annex II, the rights and obligations of legal entities established in the Community participating in Egyptian research projects within research and development programmes, and the terms and conditions applicable for the submission and evaluation of proposals and for the granting and conclusion of contracts in such projects shall be subject to Egyptian laws, regulations and government directives governing the operation of research and development programmes, as applicable to Egyptian legal entities and assuring equitable treatment, taking into account the nature of the cooperation between Egypt and the Community in this field.
APPLICATION For the purposes of this Agreement, "intellectual property" shall have the meaning given in Article 2 of the Convention establishing the World Intellectual Property Organisation, done at Stockholm on 14 July 1967.
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS OF LEGAL ENTITIES OF THE PARTIES 1.
Legal entities established in Egypt participating in an indirect action of the EC Framework programme shall have the same rights and obligations on intellectual property as those of legal entities established in the Community, under the conditions laid down by the decision taken by the European Parliament and the Council according to Article 167 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in the contract concluded with the Community accordingly, such rights and obligations being in compliance with paragraph 1. 3.
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS OF THE PARTIES 1.
