The rate of retention shall be 15 % during the first three years from the date of application of this Agreement, 20 % for the subsequent three years and 35 % thereafter. 2.
However, in case Switzerland reduces the rate of its anticipatory tax on Swiss source interest payments to individuals resident in Member States below 35 %, it shall levy a retention on such interest payments.
The rate of such retention shall be the difference between the rate of retention provided for in paragraph 1 and the new rate of anticipatory tax.
Paragraph 2 shall not apply to interest paid by Swiss investment funds which at the time of the entry into force of this Agreement or at a later date are exempted from Swiss anticipatory tax on their payments to individuals who are residents of a Member State. 5.
Article 2 Voluntary disclosure 1.
The Swiss competent authority shall communicate the information referred to in paragraph 2 to the competent authority of the Member State of residence of the beneficial owner.
Article 3 Basis of assessment for retention 1.
For the purposes of paragraph 1, the retention shall be deducted on a pro rata basis for the period during which the beneficial owner holds a debt-claim.
Paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 are without prejudice to Article 1(2).
Article 4 Definition of beneficial owner 1.
An individual is not deemed to be the beneficial owner when he or she: (a) acts as a paying agent within the meaning of Article 6; or (b) acts on behalf of a legal person, an investment fund or a comparable or equivalent body for common investments in securities; or (c) acts on behalf of another individual who is the beneficial owner and who discloses to the paying agent his or her identity and State of residence. 2.
Article 6 Definition of paying agent For the purposes of this Agreement, "paying agent" in Switzerland shall mean banks under Swiss banking law, securities dealers under the Federal Law on Stock Exchanges and Security Trading, natural and legal persons resident or established in Switzerland, partnerships and permanent establishments of foreign companies, which even occasionally, accept, hold, invest or transfer assets of third parties or merely pay interest or secure the payment of interest in the course of their business.
Article 7 Definition of interest payment 1.
As regards subparagraph 1(d), when a paying agent has no information concerning the percentage of the assets invested in debt-claims or in shares or units as defined in that subparagraph, that percentage shall be considered to be above 40 %.
The percentages referred to in subparagraph 1(d) and paragraph 4 shall be determined by reference to the investment policy as laid down in the fund rules or instruments of incorporation of the undertakings or entities concerned and, failing such rules, by reference to the actual composition of the assets of the undertakings or entities concerned.
Article 8 Revenue sharing 1.
Switzerland shall keep 25 % of the revenue generated by the retention under this Agreement and transfer 75 % of the revenue to the Member State of residence of the beneficial owner. 2.
Article 9 Elimination of double taxation 1.
The Member State of residence for tax purposes shall accept certificates issued by Swiss paying agents as proper evidence of the tax or retention on the understanding that the competent authority of the Member State of residence for tax purposes will be able to obtain from the Swiss competent authority verification of the information contained in the certificates issued by Swiss paying agents. 3.
Article 10 Exchange of information 1.
Article 11 Competent authorities For the purposes of this Agreement the competent authorities shall mean those authorities listed in Annex I.
Article 13 Review 1.
The consultations shall be held within one month of the request or as soon as possible in urgent cases. 2.
Article 14 Relationship to bilateral double taxation conventions The provisions of the double taxation conventions between Switzerland and the Member States shall not prevent the levying of the retention for which this Agreement provides.
Article 15 Dividends, interest and royalty payments between companies 1.
Without prejudice to the application of domestic or agreement-based provisions for the prevention of fraud or abuse in Switzerland and in Member States, dividends paid by subsidiary companies to parent companies shall not be subject to taxation in the source State where: - the parent company has a direct minimum holding of 25 % of the capital of such a subsidiary for at least two years, and, - one company is resident for tax purposes in a Member State and the other company is resident for tax purposes in Switzerland, and, - under any double tax agreements with any third States neither company is resident for tax purposes in that third State, and, - société anonyme/Aktiengesellschaft/società anonima; - société à responsabilité limitée/Gesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftung/società a responsabilità limitata; - société en commandite par actions/Kommanditaktiengesellschaft/società in accomandita per azioni. [1].
However, Estonia may, for as long as it charges income tax on distributed profits without taxing undistributed profits, and at the latest until 31 December 2008, continue to apply that tax to profits distributed by Estonian subsidiary companies to their parent companies established in Switzerland. 2.
Without prejudice to the application of domestic or agreement-based provisions for the prevention of fraud or abuse in Switzerland and in Member States, interest and royalty payments made between associated companies or their permanent establishments shall not be subject to taxation in the source State, where: - such companies are affiliated by a direct minimum holding of 25 % for at least two years or are both held by a third company which has directly a minimum holding of 25 % both in the capital of the first company and in the capital of the second company for at least two years, and; - where a company is resident for tax purposes or a permanent establishment is located in a Member State and the other company is resident for tax purposes or other permanent establishment situated in Switzerland, and; - under any double tax agreements with any third States none of the companies is resident for tax purposes in that third State and none of the permanent establishments is situated in that third State, and; - société anonyme/Aktiengesellschaft/società anonima; - société à responsabilité limitée/Gesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftung/società a responsabilità limitata; - société en commandite par actions/Kommanditaktiengesellschaft/società in accomandita per azioni. [0].
However, where Council Directive 2003/49/EC of 3 June 2003 on a common system of taxation applicable to interest and royalty payments made between associated companies of different Member States provides for a transitional period as regards a given Member State, that State shall only ensure provision of the above arrangements on interest and royalty payments after the expiry of that period. 3.
However, for as long as at least one Member State also applies similar provisions, the provisions of this Article shall continue to apply beyond 31 December 2010 in respect of such negotiable debt securities: - which contain gross-up and early redemption clauses, and - where the paying agent, as defined in Article 6, is established in Switzerland, and - where that paying agent pays interest directly to, or secures the payment of interest for the immediate benefit of, a beneficial owner resident in a Member State.
Article 17 Signing, entry into force and duration of validity 1.
Article 18 Application and suspension of application 1.
The application of this Agreement shall be conditional on the adoption and implementation by the dependent or associated territories of the Member States mentioned in the report of the Council (Economic and Financial Affairs) to the European Council of Santa Maria da Feira of 19 and 20 June 2000, as well as by the United States of America, Andorra, Liechtenstein, Monaco and San Marino, respectively, of measures which conform with or are equivalent to those contained in the Directive or in this Agreement, with the exception of Article 15 of this Agreement, and providing for the same dates of implementation. 2.
Notwithstanding paragraphs 1 and 2, Article 15 shall apply in respect of Spain with effect from the entry into force of a bilateral agreement between Spain and Switzerland on the exchange of information on request in administrative, civil or criminal cases of tax fraud, as defined in the laws of the requested State, or the like, with respect to items of income not subject to this Agreement but covered by a convention or an agreement between Spain and Switzerland on the elimination of double taxation on income and capital. 4.
Article 19 Claims and final settlement 1.
Article 20 Territorial scope This Agreement shall apply, on the one hand, to the territories in which the Treaty establishing the European Community is applied and under the conditions laid down in that Treaty and, on the other hand, to the territory of Switzerland.
The list of competent authorities in Annex I may be amended simply by notification of the other Contracting Party by Switzerland for the authority referred to in (a) therein and by the Community for the other authorities.
Article 22 Languages 1.
Por la Comunidad Europea Za Evropské společenství For Det Europæiske Fællesskab Für die Europäische Gemeinschaft Euroopa Ühenduse nimel Για την Ευρωπαϊκή Κοινότητα For the European Community Pour la Communauté européenne Per la Comunità europea Eiropas Kopienas vārdā Europos bendrijos vardu az Európai Közösség részéről Għall-Komunità Ewropea Voor de Europese Gemeenschap W imieniu Wspólnoty Europejskiej Pela Comunidade Europeia Za Európske spoločenstvo za Evropsko skupnost Euroopan yhteisön puolesta På Europeiska gemenskapens vägnar Für die Schweizerische Eidgenossenschaft Pour la Confédération suisse Per la Confederazione svizzera -------------------------------------------------- [1] [0] [2] As in the Directive, these transitional provisions also apply to negotiable debt securities held through investment funds.
