For the President of the French Republic Co-Prince of Andorra %gt%REFERENCE TO A FILM%gt% For the Bishop of Urgel Co-Prince of Andorra %gt%REFERENCE TO A FILM%gt% For the Government of Andorra %gt%REFERENCE TO A FILM%gt% B.
Letter from the Community Luxembourg, 28 June 1990 Gentlemen, We acknowledge receipt of your letter accepting the Agreement between the Principality of Andorra and the European Economic Community.
Article 4 The provisions of this Title shall also apply to goods obtained in the Community or in the Principality of Andorra, in the manufacture of which were used products coming from third countries and not in free circulation either in the Community or in the Principality of Andorra.
Article 5 The Contracting Parties shall refrain from introducing between themselves any new customs duties on imports or exports or charges having equivalent effect, and from increasing those already applied in their trade with each other on 1 January 1989.
Customs duties on imports and charges having equivalent effect in force between the Community and the Principality of Andorra shall be abolished in accordance with paragraphs 2 and 3. 2.
Where import duties are payable on goods pursuant to paragraph 1, these duties shall be levied on behalf of the Principality of Andorra.
TITLE II Arrangements for products not covered by the customs union Article 11 1.
TITLE III Common provisions Article 13 1.
Exemptions from import duties, turnover tax and excise duties levied on imports by travellers between the Contracting Parties and applicable to goods contained in the personal luggage of travellers coming from one of the Contracting Parties shall be those currently applicable in the Community in respect of third countries, provided imports of those goods are strictly non-commercial. 2.
With regard to the products covered by Title II of this Agreement and listed below, the exemptions referred to in paragraph 1 shall be granted within the following quantitative limits for each traveller entering the Community from the Principality of Andorra: - milk powder2,5 Kilograms. - condensed milk3,0 Kilograms. - fresh milk6,0 Kilograms. - butter1,0 Kilograms. - cheese4,0 Kilograms. - sugar and confectionery5,0 Kilograms. - meat5,0 Kilograms. 3.
Article 14 The Contracting Parties shall refrain from any domestic tax measure or practice leading directly or indirectly to discrimination between the products of one Contracting Party and similar products from the other Contracting Party.
Article 16 The Agreement shall not preclude prohibitions or restrictions on imports, exports or goods in transit justified on grounds of public morality, public policy or public security, the protection of health and life of humans, animals or plants, the protection of national treasures possessing artistic, historic or archaeological value, the protection of industrial or commercial property or controls relating to gold and silver.
The Joint Committee shall draw up its own rules of procedure. 4.
The Joint Committee shall be chaired by each of the Contracting Parties in turn in accordance with the arrangements to be laid down in its rules of procedure. 7.
Article 19 In trade covered by this Agreement: - the arrangements applied by the Principality of Andorra vis-à-vis the Community may not give rise to any discrimination between the Member States, their nationals or their companies, - the arrangements applied by the Community vis-à-vis the Principality of Andorra may not give rise to any discrimination between Andorran nationals or companies.
TITLE IV General and final provisions Article 20 This Agreement is concluded for an unlimited duration.
Article 21 Either Contracting Party may denounce this Agreement by notifying the other Contracting Party in writing.
Article 22 This Agreement shall apply, on the one hand, to the territories in which the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community is applied and under the conditions laid down in that Treaty and, on the other, to the territory of the Principality of Andorra.
Article 23 Annexes I and II and the Appendix to this Agreement shall form an integral part thereof.
Article 25 The provisions of this Agreement shall replace those applied by the Community, and in particular by France and Spain, prior to the Agreement's entry into force, under the 1967 Exchange of Letters with the Principality of Andorra.
Article 26 This Agreement is drawn up in two originals in the Danish, Dutch, English, French, German, Greek, Italian, Portuguese, Spanish and Catalan languages, each text being equally authentic.
ANNEX I List of customs offices referred to in Article 8 (1) - TOULOUSE PORTET - L'HOSPITALET-PAS DE LA CASE - LA TOUR DE CAROL - PERPIGNAN - MADRID - BARCELONA - ALGECIRAS - TUY - FARGA DE MOLES ANNEX II As regards the provisions of trade policy adopted by the Principality of Andorra under the Agreement, and in order that imports of the products consumed in Andorra should not be affected by these provisions, derogations may be decided by the Joint Committee at the request of the Principality of Andorra; these derogations may include aspects of common commercial policy which do not apply to all the Member States of the Community.
TITLE II ARRANGEMENTS FOR ADMINISTRATIVE COOPERATION Article 2 1.
A specimen of the EUR. 1 certificate is given in Annex 2 to this Appendix; (b) an invoice bearing the exporter's declaration as given in Annex 3 to this Appendix, made out by any exporter for any consignment of one or more packages containing originating products whose total value does not exceed ECU 2 820. 2.
Up to and including 30 April 1991 the ecu to be used in terms of any given national currency shall be the equivalent in that national currency of the ecu as at 3 October 1988.
For each successive period of two years thereafter it shall be the equivalent in that national currency of the ecu as at the first working day in October in the year immediately preceding the two-year period. 4.
If the goods are invoiced in the currency of another Member State of the Community, the importing State shall recognize the amount notified by the State concerned.
The EUR. 1 certificate shall be issued by the Andorran customs authorities if the goods to be exported can be considered as products originating in the Principality of Andorra within the meaning of Article 1 of this Appendix. 3.
Certificates issued retrospectively must be endorsed with one of the following phrases: 'EXPEDIDO A POSTERIORI`, 'UDSTEDT EETERFØLGENDE`, 'NACHTRÄGLICH AUSGESTELLT`, 'ÅÊÄÏÈÅÍ ÅÊ ÔÙÍ ÕÓÔÅÐÙÍ`, 'ISSUED RETROSPECTIVELY`, 'DELIVRE A POSTERIORI`, 'RILASCIATO A POSTERIORI`, 'AFGEGEVEN A POSTERIORI`, 'EMITIDO A POSTERIORI`, 'EMES A POSTERIORI`. 5.
In the event of the theft, loss or destruction of an EUR. 1 certificate, the exporter may apply to the Andorran customs authorities which issued it for a duplicate made out on the basis of the export documents in their possession.
The duplicate, which must bear the date of issue of the original EUR. 1 certificate, shall take effect as from that date. 6.
The endorsements referred to in paragraphs 4 and 5 shall be entered in the Remarks box on the EUR. 1 certificate. 7.
For the purpose of verifying whether the conditions stated in paragraph 2 have been met, the Andorran customs authorities shall have the right to call for any documentary evidence or to carry out any check which they consider appropriate.
An EUR. 1 certificate shall be issued only on application having been made in writing by the exporter or, under the exporter's responsibility, by his authorized representative, on the form of which a specimen is given in Annex 2 to this Appendix; it shall be completed in accordance with this Appendix. 2.
When a certificate is issued in accordance with Article 3 (4) of this Appendix, after the goods to which it relates have actually been exported, the exporter must in the application referred to in paragraph 1: - indicate the place and date of consignment of the goods to which the certificate relates, - certify that no EUR. 1 certificate was issued at the time of exportation of the goods in question, and state the reasons.
The paper used must be white writing paper, sized, not containing mechanical pulp and weighing not less than 25 g/m$.
An EUR. 1 certificate must be submitted, within four months of the date of issue, by the Andorran customs authorities to the customs authorities of the importing State where the goods are entered in accordance with the procedures laid down by that State. 2.
An EUR. 1 certificate which is submitted to the customs authorities of the importing State after the final date for presentation specified in paragraph 1 may be accepted for the purpose of applying preferential treatment, where the failure to submit the certificate by the final date set is due to reasons of force majeure or exceptional circumstances.
The discovery of slight discrepancies between the statements made in the EUR. 1 certificate and those made in the documents submitted to the customs office for the purpose of carrying out the formalities for importing the goods shall not ipso facto render the certificate null and void if it is duly established that the certificate does correspond to the goods submitted.
Article 7 The declaration referred to in Article 2 (1) (b) shall be drawn up by the exporter in the manner specified in Annex 3 to this Appendix, in one of the languages in which the Agreement is drawn up.
The exporter or his representative shall submit with his application for an EUR. 1 certificate any appropriate supporting document proving that the goods to be exported qualify for the issue of an EUR. 1 certificate.
The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall apply mutatis mutandis in the case of the use of the declaration referred to in Article 2 (1) (b).
Subsequent verification of EUR. 1 certificates and of exporters' declarations made on invoices shall be carried out at random or whenever the customs authorities of the importing State have reasonable doubt as to the authenticity of the document or the accuracy of the information regarding the true origin of the goods in question. 2.
The customs authorities of the importing State shall forward, in support of the request for subsequent verification, any documents and information that have been obtained suggesting that the particulars given on the EUR. 1 certificate or the invoice are inaccurate.
For the purpose of subsequent verification of EUR. 1 certificates, the export documents or copies of EUR. 1 certificates provided in their place must be retained for at least two years by the Andorran customs authorities.
TITLE III FINAL PROVISIONS Article 12 The Community and the Principality of Andorra shall each take the measures necessary for the implementation of this Appendix.
Article 13 The Annexes to this Appendix shall form an integral part thereof.
ANNEX 1 EXPLANATORY NOTES Note 1 In order to determine whether goods originate in the Principality of Andorra, it shall not be necessary to establish whether the power and fuel, plant and equipment, machines and tools used to obtain such goods originate in third countries or not.
Note 2 In order to determine the origin of products falling within Chapters 1 to 24 of the Combined Nomenclature, no account shall be taken of any packaging.
Note 3 Products which do not make up more than 10 % by quantity of those referred to in Article 1 (a) to (e) of the Appendix be regarded as 'playing a subsidiary part` in manufacture. %gt%START OF GRAPHIC%gt% Annex 2 %gt%END OF GRAPHIC%gt% Annex 3 DECLARATION PROVIDED FOR IN ARTICLE 2 (1) (B) I, the undersigned, exporter of the goods covered by this document, declare that, except where otherwise indicated (¹), the goods meet the conditions laid down for obtaining originating status in preferential trade with the Community and that the country of origin of the goods is the Principality of Andorra. . (place and date) . (signature) (The signature must be followed by the name of the signatory in clear script) (¹) When an invoice also includes products not originating in the Principality of Andorra, the exporter must cleary indicate them.
