Article 2 Definitions For the purposes of this Convention: (a) "Party" means a State or regional economic integration organisation that has consented to be bound by this Convention and for which the Convention is in force; (b) "Regional economic integration organisation" means an organisation constituted by sovereign States of a given region to which its Member States have transferred competence in respect of matters governed by this Convention and which has been duly authorised, in accordance with its internal procedures, to sign, ratify, accept, approve or accede to this Convention; (c) "Parties present and voting" means Parties present and casting an affirmative or negative vote.
Article 3 Measures to reduce or eliminate releases from intentional production and use 1.
Each Party shall take measures to ensure: (a) that a chemical listed in Annex A or Annex B is imported only: (i) for the purpose of environmentally sound disposal as set forth in paragraph 1(d) of Article 6; or (ii) for a use or purpose which is permitted for that Party under Annex A or Annex B; (b) that a chemical listed in Annex A for which any production or use specific exemption is in effect or a chemical listed in Annex B for which any production or use specific exemption or acceptable purpose is in effect, taking into account any relevant provisions in existing international prior informed consent instruments, is exported only: (i) for the purpose of environmentally sound disposal as set forth in paragraph 1(d) of Article 6; (ii) to a Party which is permitted to use that chemical under Annex A or Annex B; or (iii) to a State not Party to this Convention which has provided an annual certification to the exporting Party.
Each Party that has one or more regulatory and assessment schemes for new pesticides or new industrial chemicals shall take measures to regulate with the aim of preventing the production and use of new pesticides or new industrial chemicals which, taking into consideration the criteria in paragraph 1 of Annex D, exhibit the characteristics of persistent organic pollutants. 4.
Each Party that has one or more regulatory and assessment schemes for pesticides or industrial chemicals shall, where appropriate, take into consideration within these schemes the criteria in paragraph 1 of Annex D when conducting assessments of pesticides or industrial chemicals currently in use. 5.
Except as otherwise provided in this Convention, paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply to quantities of a chemical to be used for laboratory-scale research or as a reference standard. 6.
Any Party that has a specific exemption in accordance with Annex A or a specific exemption or an acceptable purpose in accordance with Annex B shall take appropriate measures to ensure that any production or use under such exemption or purpose is carried out in a manner that prevents or minimises human exposure and release into the environment.
Article 4 Register of specific exemptions 1.
The Register shall include: (a) a list of the types of specific exemptions reproduced from Annex A and Annex B; (b) a list of the Parties that have a specific exemption listed under Annex A or Annex B; and (c) a list of the expiry dates for each registered specific exemption. 3.
The withdrawal shall take effect on the date specified in the notification. 9.
Article 5 Measures to reduce or eliminate releases from unintentional production Each Party shall at a minimum take the following measures to reduce the total releases derived from anthropogenic sources of each of the chemicals listed in Annex C, with the goal of their continuing minimisation and, where feasible, ultimate elimination: (a) develop an action plan or, where appropriate, a regional or subregional action plan within two years of the date of entry into force of this Convention for it, and subsequently implement it as part of its implementation plan specified in Article 7, designed to identify, characterise and address the release of the chemicals listed in Annex C and to facilitate implementation of subparagraphs (b) to (e).
In any case, the requirement to use best available techniques for new sources in the categories listed in Part II of that Annex shall be phased in as soon as practicable but no later than four years after the entry into force of the Convention for that Party.
When applying best available techniques and best environmental practices, Parties should take into consideration the general guidance on prevention and release reduction measures in that Annex and guidelines on best available techniques and best environmental practices to be adopted by decision of the Conference of the Parties; (e) promote, in accordance with its action plan, the use of best available techniques and best environmental practices: (i) for existing sources, within the source categories listed in Part II of Annex C and within source categories such as those in Part III of that Annex; and (ii) for new sources, within source categories such as those listed in Part III of Annex C which a Party has not addressed under subparagraph (d).
Article 6 Measures to reduce or eliminate releases from stockpiles and wastes 1.
In order to ensure that stockpiles consisting of or containing chemicals listed either in Annex A or Annex B and wastes, including products and articles upon becoming wastes, consisting of, containing or contaminated with a chemical listed in Annex A, B or C, are managed in a manner protective of human health and the environment, each Party shall: (a) develop appropriate strategies for identifying: (i) stockpiles consisting of or containing chemicals listed either in Annex A or Annex B; and (ii) products and articles in use and wastes consisting of, containing or contaminated with a chemical listed in Annex A, B or C; (b) identify, to the extent practicable, stockpiles consisting of or containing chemicals listed either in Annex A or Annex B on the basis of the strategies referred to in subparagraph (a); (c) manage stockpiles, as appropriate, in a safe, efficient and environmentally sound manner.
Article 7 Implementation plans 1.
Each Party shall: (a) develop and endeavour to implement a plan for the implementation of its obligations under this Convention; (b) transmit its implementation plan to the Conference of the Parties within two years of the date on which this Convention enters into force for it; and (c) review and update, as appropriate, its implementation plan on a periodic basis and in a manner to be specified by a decision of the Conference of the Parties. 2.
Article 8 Listing of chemicals in Annexes A, B and C 1.
A Party may submit a proposal to the Secretariat for listing a chemical in Annexes A, B and/or C.
The Conference of the Parties may decide, based on the screening criteria in Annex D and taking into account the evaluation of the Committee and any additional information provided by any Party or observer, that the proposal should proceed. 6.
The Committee shall, through the Secretariat, invite information from all Parties and observers relating to the considerations specified in Annex F.
After that period and on the basis of any information received, the Committee shall reconsider the proposal pursuant to paragraph 6 with a priority to be decided by the Conference of the Parties.
The Committee shall, based on the risk profile referred to in paragraph 6 and the risk management evaluation referred to in paragraph 7(a) or 8, recommend whether the chemical should be considered by the Conference of the Parties for listing in Annexes A, B and/or C.
Article 9 Information exchange 1.
The Parties shall exchange the information referred to in paragraph 1 directly or through the Secretariat. 3.
Article 10 Public information, awareness and education 1.
Each Party shall, within its capabilities, promote and facilitate: (a) awareness among its policy and decision makers with regard to persistent organic pollutants; (b) provision to the public of all available information on persistent organic pollutants, taking into account paragraph 5 of Article 9; (c) development and implementation, especially for women, children and the least educated, of educational and public awareness programmes on persistent organic pollutants, as well as on their health and environmental effects and on their alternatives; (d) public participation in addressing persistent organic pollutants and their health and environmental effects and in developing adequate responses, including opportunities for providing input at the national level regarding implementation of this Convention; (e) training of workers, scientists, educators and technical and managerial personnel; (f) development and exchange of educational and public awareness materials at the national and international levels; and (g) development and implementation of education and training programmes at the national and international levels. 2.
Each Party shall, within its capabilities, ensure that the public has access to the public information referred to in paragraph 1 and that the information is kept up to date. 3.
Each Party shall, within its capabilities, encourage industry and professional users to promote and facilitate the provision of the information referred to in paragraph 1 at the national level and, as appropriate, sub-regional, regional and global levels. 4.
Article 11 Research, development and monitoring 1.
Article 12 Technical assistance 1.
The Parties recognise that rendering of timely and appropriate technical assistance in response to requests from developing country Parties and Parties with economies in transition is essential to the successful implementation of this Convention. 2.
The Parties shall establish, as appropriate, arrangements for the purpose of providing technical assistance and promoting the transfer of technology to developing country Parties and Parties with economies in transition relating to the implementation of this Convention.
The developed country Parties shall provide new and additional financial resources to enable developing country Parties and Parties with economies in transition to meet the agreed full incremental costs of implementing measures which fulfil their obligations under this Convention as agreed between a recipient Party and an entity participating in the mechanism described in paragraph 6.
Other Parties may also on a voluntary basis and in accordance with their capabilities provide such financial resources.
Developed country Parties, and other Parties in accordance with their capabilities and in accordance with their national plans, priorities and programmes, may also provide and developing country Parties and Parties with economies in transition avail themselves of financial resources to assist in their implementation of this Convention through other bilateral, regional and multilateral sources or channels. 4.
A mechanism for the provision of adequate and sustainable financial resources to developing country Parties and Parties with economies in transition on a grant or concessional basis to assist in their implementation of the Convention is hereby defined.
Article 14 Interim financial arrangements The institutional structure of the Global Environment Facility, operated in accordance with the Instrument for the Establishment of the Restructured Global Environment Facility, shall, on an interim basis, be the principal entity entrusted with the operations of the financial mechanism referred to in Article 13, for the period between the date of entry into force of this Convention and the first meeting of the Conference of the Parties, or until such time as the Conference of the Parties decides which institutional structure will be designated in accordance with Article 13.
Article 15 Reporting 1.
Article 16 Effectiveness evaluation 1.
The evaluation described in paragraph 1 shall be conducted on the basis of available scientific, environmental, technical and economic information, including: (a) reports and other monitoring information provided pursuant to paragraph 2; (b) national reports submitted pursuant to Article 15; and (c) non-compliance information provided pursuant to the procedures established under Article 17.
Article 17 Non-compliance The Conference of the Parties shall, as soon as practicable, develop and approve procedures and institutional mechanisms for determining non-compliance with the provisions of this Convention and for the treatment of Parties found to be in non-compliance.
Article 18 Settlement of disputes 1.
A Party that is a regional economic integration organisation may make a declaration with like effect in relation to arbitration in accordance with the procedure referred to in paragraph 2(a). 4.
A declaration made pursuant to paragraph 2 or paragraph 3 shall remain in force until it expires in accordance with its terms or until three months after written notice of its revocation has been deposited with the depository. 5.
Article 19 Conference of the Parties 1.
Article 20 Secretariat 1.
The functions of the Secretariat shall be: (a) to make arrangements for meetings of the Conference of the Parties and its subsidiary bodies and to provide them with services as required; (b) to facilitate assistance to the Parties, particularly developing country Parties and Parties with economies in transition, on request, in the implementation of this Convention; (c) to ensure the necessary coordination with the secretariats of other relevant international bodies; (d) to prepare and make available to the Parties periodic reports based on information received pursuant to Article 15 and other available information; (e) to enter, under the overall guidance of the Conference of the Parties, into such administrative and contractual arrangements as may be required for the effective discharge of its functions; and (f) to perform the other secretariat functions specified in this Convention and such other functions as may be determined by the Conference of the Parties. 3.
Article 21 Amendments to the Convention 1.
An amendment adopted in accordance with paragraph 3 shall enter into force for the Parties having accepted it on the 90th day after the date of deposit of instruments of ratification, acceptance or approval by at least three-fourths of the Parties.
Article 22 Adoption and amendment of Annexes 1.
A Party may at any time withdraw a previous notification of non‐acceptance in respect of any additional Annex, and the Annex shall thereupon enter into force for that Party subject to subparagraph (c); and (c) on the expiry of one year from the date of the communication by the depository of the adoption of an additional Annex, the Annex shall enter into force for all Parties that have not submitted a notification in accordance with the provisions of subparagraph (b). 4.
The proposal, adoption and entry into force of amendments to Annex A, B or C shall be subject to the same procedures as for the proposal, adoption and entry into force of additional Annexes to this Convention, except that an amendment to Annex A, B or C shall not enter into force with respect to any Party that has made a declaration with respect to amendment to those Annexes in accordance with paragraph 4 of Article 25, in which case any such amendment shall enter into force for such a Party on the 90th day after the date of deposit with the depository of its instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession with respect to such amendment. 5.
The following procedure shall apply to the proposal, adoption and entry into force of an amendment to Annex D, E or F: (a) amendments shall be proposed according to the procedure in paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article 21; (b) the Parties shall take decisions on an amendment to Annex D, E or F by consensus; and (c) a decision to amend Annex D, E or F shall forthwith be communicated to the Parties by the depository.
Article 23 Right to vote 1.
Each Party to this Convention shall have one vote, except as provided for in paragraph 2. 2.
Article 24 Signature This Convention shall be open for signature at Stockholm by all States and regional economic integration organisations on 23 May 2001, and at the United Nations Headquarters in New York from 24 May 2001 to 22 May 2002.
Article 25 Ratification, acceptance, approval or accession 1.
Article 26 Entry into force 1.
For the purpose of paragraphs 1 and 2, any instrument deposited by a regional economic integration organisation shall not be counted as additional to those deposited by member States of that organisation.
Article 27 Reservations No reservations may be made to this Convention.
Article 29 Depository The Secretary-General of the United Nations shall be the depository of this Convention.
Article 30 Authentic texts The original of this Convention, of which the Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian and Spanish texts are equally authentic, shall be deposited with the Secretary‐General of the United Nations.
Done at Stockholm on this twenty-second day of May, two thousand and one. -------------------------------------------------- Annex A Elimination Part I Chemical | Activity | Specific exemption | Aldrin* CAS No: 309-00-2 | Production | None | | Use | Local ectoparasiticide Insecticide | Chlordane* CAS No: 57-74-9 | Production | As allowed for the Parties listed in the Register | | Use | Local ectoparasiticide Insecticide Termiticide Termiticide in buildings and dams Termiticide in roads Additive in plywood adhesives | Dieldrin* CAS No: 60-57-1 | Production | None | | Use | In agricultural operations | Endrin* CAS No: 72-20-8 | Production | None | | Use | None | Heptachlor* CAS No: 76-44-8 | Production | None | | Use | Termiticide Termiticide in structures of houses Termiticide (subterranean) Wood treatment In use in underground cable boxes | Hexachlorobenzene CAS No: 118-74-1 | Production | As allowed for the Parties listed in the Register | | Use | Intermediate Solvent in pesticide Closed system site limited intermediate | Mirex* CAS No: 2385-85-5 | Production | As allowed for the Parties listed in the Register | | Use | Termiticide | Toxaphene* CAS No: 8001-35-2 | Production | None | | Use | None | Polychlorinated Biphenyls (PCB)* | Production | None | | Use | Articles in use in accordance with the provisions of Part II of this Annex | Notes: (i) except as otherwise specified in this Convention, quantities of a chemical occurring as unintentional trace contaminants in products and articles shall not be considered to be listed in this Annex; (ii) this note shall not be considered as a production and use specific exemption for purposes of Article 3(2).
This procedure applies except as otherwise specified in this Annex.
Such production and use shall cease after a 10-year period, unless the Party concerned submits a new notification to the Secretariat, in which case the period will be extended for an additional 10 years unless the Conference of the Parties, after a review of the production and use decides otherwise.
The Conference of the Parties shall review progress towards elimination of polychlorinated biphenyls at five year intervals or other period, as appropriate, taking into account such reports. -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX B RESTRICTION Part I Chemical | Activity | Acceptable purpose or specific exemption | DDT (1,1,1-trichloro-2,2-bis(4-chlorophenyl)ethane) CAS No: 50-29-3 | Production | Acceptable purpose: Disease vector control use in accordance with Part II of this Annex Specific exemption: Intermediate in production of dicofol Intermediate | | Use | Acceptable purpose: Disease vector control in accordance with Part II of this Annex Specific exemption: Production of dicofol Intermediate | Notes: (i) except as otherwise specified in this Convention, quantities of a chemical occurring as unintentional trace contaminants in products and articles shall not be considered to be listed in this Annex; (ii) this note shall not be considered as a production and use acceptable purpose or specific exemption for purposes of Article 3(2).
This procedure applies except as otherwise specified in this Annex.
Such production and use shall cease after a 10-year period, unless the Party concerned submits a new notification to the Secretariat, in which case the period will be extended for an additional 10 years unless the Conference of the Parties, after a review of the production and use decides otherwise.
Part II DDT (1,1,1-trichloro-2,2-bis(4-chlorophenyl)ethane) 1.
Each Party that produces and/or uses DDT shall restrict such production and/or use for disease vector control in accordance with the World Health Organization recommendations and guidelines on the use of DDT and when locally safe, effective and affordable alternatives are not available to the Party in question. 3.
Part IV: Definitions 1.
The toxic equivalent factor values to be used for the purposes of this Convention shall be consistent with accepted international standards, commencing with the World Health Organization 1998 mammalian toxic equivalent factor values for polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans and coplanar polychlorinated biphenyls.
Part V: General guidance on best available techniques and best environmental practices This Part provides general guidance to Parties on preventing or reducing releases of the chemicals listed in Part I.
Appropriate control techniques to reduce releases of the chemicals listed in Part I are in general the same.
Best environmental practices The Conference of the Parties may develop guidance with regard to best environmental practices. -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX D INFORMATION REQUIREMENTS AND SCREENING CRITERIA 1.
A Party submitting a proposal to list a chemical in Annexes A, B and/or C shall identify the chemical in the manner described in subparagraph (a) and provide the information on the chemical, and its transformation products where relevant, relating to the screening criteria set out in subparagraphs (b) to (e): (a) chemical identity: (i) names, including trade name or names, commercial name or names and synonyms, Chemical Abstracts Service (CAS) Registry number, International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry (IUPAC) name; and (ii) structure, including specification of isomers, where applicable, and the structure of the chemical class; (b) persistence: (i) evidence that the half-life of the chemical in water is greater than two months, or that its half‐life in soil is greater than six months, or that its half-life in sediment is greater than six months; or (ii) evidence that the chemical is otherwise sufficiently persistent to justify its consideration within the scope of this Convention; (c) bio-accumulation: (i) evidence that the bio-concentration factor or bio-accumulation factor in aquatic species for the chemical is greater than 5000 or, in the absence of such data, that the log Kow is greater than 5; (ii) evidence that a chemical presents other reasons for concern, such as high bio‐accumulation in other species, high toxicity or ecotoxicity; or (iii) monitoring data in biota indicating that the bio-accumulation potential of the chemical is sufficient to justify its consideration within the scope of this Convention; (d) potential for long-range environmental transport: (i) measured levels of the chemical in locations distant from the sources of its release that are of potential concern; (ii) monitoring data showing that long-range environmental transport of the chemical, with the potential for transfer to a receiving environment, may have occurred via air, water or migratory species; or (iii) environmental fate properties and/or model results that demonstrate that the chemical has a potential for long-range environmental transport through air, water or migratory species, with the potential for transfer to a receiving environment in locations distant from the sources of its release.
