A request for information described in paragraph 1 shall include: (a) the identity of the natural or legal person relevant to locating such accounts or transactions; and (b) sufficient information to enable the competent authority of the requested State to: (i) reasonably suspect that the natural or legal person concerned has engaged in a criminal offence and that banks or non-bank financial institutions in the territory of the requested State may have the information requested; and (ii) conclude that the information sought relates to the criminal investigation or proceeding; (c) to the extent possible, information concerning which bank or non-bank financial institution may be involved, and other information the availability of which may aid in reducing the breadth of the enquiry. 3.
The requested State shall respond to a request for production of the records concerning the accounts or transactions identified pursuant to this Article, in accordance with the provisions of the applicable mutual legal assistance treaty in force between the States concerned, or in the absence thereof, in accordance with the requirements of its domestic law. 7.
Article 5 Joint investigative teams 1.
Article 6 Video conferencing 1.
Article 7 Expedited transmission of requests Requests for mutual legal assistance, and communications related thereto, may be made by expedited means of communications, including fax or e-mail, with formal confirmation to follow where required by the requested State.
Article 8 Mutual legal assistance to administrative authorities 1.
Mutual legal assistance shall also be afforded to a national administrative authority, investigating conduct with a view to a criminal prosecution of the conduct, or referral of the conduct to criminal investigation or prosecution authorities, pursuant to its specific administrative or regulatory authority to undertake such investigation.
Article 10 Requesting State's request for confidentiality The requested State shall use its best efforts to keep confidential a request and its contents if such confidentiality is requested by the requesting State.
Article 11 Consultations The Contracting Parties shall, as appropriate, consult to enable the most effective use to be made of this Agreement, including to facilitate the resolution of any dispute regarding the interpretation or application of this Agreement.
Article 12 Temporal application 1.
Nevertheless, Articles 6 and 7 shall apply to requests pending in a requested State at the time this Agreement enters into force.
Article 14 Future bilateral mutual legal assistance treaties with Member States This Agreement shall not preclude the conclusion, after its entry into force, of bilateral Agreements between a Member State and the United States of America consistent with this Agreement.
Article 15 Designations and notifications 1.
Article 16 Territorial application 1.
The application of this Agreement to any territory or country in respect of which extension has been made in accordance with subparagraph (b) of paragraph 1 may be terminated by either Contracting Party giving six months' written notice to the other Contracting Party through the diplomatic channel, where duly confirmed between the relevant Member State and the United States of America.
Article 17 Review The Contracting Parties agree to carry out a common review of this Agreement no later than five years after its entry into force.
Article 18 Entry into force and termination 1.
Por la Unión Europea/For Den Europæiske Union/Für die Europäische Union/Για την Ευρωπαϊκή Ένωση/For the European Union/Pour l'Union européenne/Per l'Unione europea/Voor de Europese Unie/Pela União Europeia/Euroopan unionin puolesta/På Europeiska unionens vägnar &gt;PIC FILE= "L_2003181EN.004001.TIF"&gt; Por los Estados Unidos de América/For Amerikas Forenede Stater/Für die Vereinigten Staaten von Amerika/Για τις Ηνωμένες Πολιτείες της Αμερικής/For the United States of America/Pour les États-Unis d'Amérique/Per gli Stati Uniti d'America/Voor de Verenigde Staten van Amerika/Pelos Estados Unidos da América/Amerikan yhdysvaltojen puolesta/På Amerikas förenta staters vägnar &gt;PIC FILE= "L_2003181EN.004002.TIF"&gt; Explanatory Note on the Agreement on Mutual Legal Assistance between the European Union and the United States of America This note reflects understandings regarding the application of certain provisions of the Agreement on Mutual Legal Assistance between the European Union and the United States of America (hereinafter "the Agreement") agreed between the Contracting Parties.
On Article 14 Article 14 provides that the Agreement shall not preclude the conclusion, after its entry into force, of bilateral agreements on mutual legal assistance between a Member State and the United States of America consistent with the Agreement.
