This Treaty is a special agreement within the meaning of Article 20 of the Berne Convention for the Protection of Literary and Artistic Works, as regards Contracting Parties that are countries of the Union established by that Convention.
Contracting Parties shall comply with Articles 1 to 21 and the Appendix of the Berne Convention.
Article 2 Scope of copyright protection Copyright protection extends to expressions and not to ideas, procedures, methods of operation or mathematical concepts as such.
Article 3 Application of Articles 2 to 6 of the Berne Convention Contracting Parties shall apply mutatis mutandis the provisions of Articles 2 to 6 of the Berne Convention in respect of the protection provided for in this Treaty.
Article 4 Computer programs Computer programs are protected as literary works within the meaning of Article 2 of the Berne Convention.
Article 5 Compilations of data (databases) Compilations of data or other material, in any form, which by reason of the selection or arrangement of their contents constitute intellectual creations, are protected as such.
Article 6 Right of distribution 1.
Article 7 Right of rental 1.
Article 8 Right of communication to the public Without prejudice to the provisions of Articles 11(1)(ii), 11bis(1)(i) and (ii), 11ter(1)(ii), 14(1)(ii) and 14bis(1) of the Berne Convention, authors of literary and artistic works shall enjoy the exclusive right of authorising any communication to the public of their works, by wire or wireless means, including the making available to the public of their works in such a way that members of the public may access these works from a place and at at time individually chosen by them.
Article 10 Limitations and exceptions 1.
Article 11 Obligations concerning technological measures Contracting Parties shall provide adequate legal protection and effective legal remedies against the circumvention of effective technological measures that are used by authors in connection with the exercise of their rights under this Treaty or the Berne Convention and that restrict acts, in respect of their works, which are not authorised by the authors concerned or permitted by law.
Article 12 Obligations concerning rights management information 1.
Article 13 Application in time Contracting Parties shall apply the provisions of Article 18 of the Berne Convention to all protection provided for in this Treaty.
Article 14 Provisions on enforcement of rights 1.
Article 16 International Bureau The International Bureau of WIPO shall perform the administrative tasks concerning the Treaty.
Article 17 Eligibility for becoming Party to the Treaty 1.
Any Member State of WIPO may become Party to this Treaty. 2.
Article 18 Rights and obligations under the Treaty Subject to any specific provisions to the contrary in this Treaty, each Contracting Party shall enjoy all of the rights and assume all of the obligations under this Treaty.
Article 20 Entry into force of the Treaty This Treaty shall enter into force three months after 30 instruments of ratification or accession by States have been deposited with the Director-General of WIPO.
Article 22 No reservations to the Treaty No reservation to this Treaty shall be admitted.
Article 23 Denunciation of the Treaty This Treaty may be denounced by any Contracting Party by notification addressed to the Director-General of WIPO.
Article 24 Languages of the Treaty 1.
Article 25 Depositary The Director-General of WIPO is the depositary of this Treaty.
Agreed statements Concerning Article 1(4) The reproduction right, as set out in Article 9 of the Berne Convention, and the exceptions permitted thereunder, fully apply in the digital environment, in particular to the use of works in digital form.
It is understood that the storage of a protected work in digital form in an electronic medium constitutes a reproduction within the meaning of Article 9 of the Berne Convention.
Concerning Article 3 It is understood that, in applying Article 3 of this Treaty, the expression %quot%Country of the Union%quot% in Articles 2 to 6 of the Berne Convention will be read as if it were a reference to a Contracting Party to this Treaty, in the application of those Berne Articles in respect of protection provided for in this Treaty.
It is also understood that the expression %quot%country outside the Union%quot% in those Articles in the Berne Convention will, in the same circumstances, be read as if it were a referance to a country that is not a Contracting Party to this Treaty, and that %quot%this Convention%quot% in Articles 2(8). 2bis(2). 3. 4 and 5 of the Berne Convention will be read as if it were a reference to the Berne Convention and this Treaty.
Finally, it is understood that a reference in Articles 3 to 6 of the Berne Convention to a %quot%national of one of the countries of the Union%quot% will, when these Articles are applied to this Treaty, mean, in regard to an intergovernmental organisation that is a Contracting Party to this Treaty, a national of one of the countries that is member of that organisation.
Concerning Article 4 The scope of protection for computer programs under Article 4 of this Treaty, read with Article 2, is consistent with Article 2 of the Berne Convention and on a par with the relevant provisions of the TRIPS Agreement.
Concerning Article 5 The scope of protection for compilations of data (databases) under Article 5 of this Treaty, read with Article 2, is consistent with Article 2 of the Berne Convention and on a par with the relevant provisions of the TRIPS Agreement.
Concerning Articles 6 and 7 As used in these Articles, the expressions %quot%copies%quot% and %quot%original and copies%quot% being subject to the right of distribution and the right of rental under the said Articles, refer exclusively to fixed copies that can be put into circulation as tangible objects.
Concerning Article 7 It is understood that the obligation under Article 7(1) does not require a Contracting Party to provide an exclusive right of commercial rental to authors who, under that Contracting Party's law, are not granted rights in respect of phonograms.
Concerning Article 8 It is understood that the mere provision of physical facilities for enabling or making a communication does not in itself amount to communication within the meaning of this Treaty or the Berne Convention.
Concerning Article 10 It is understood that the provisions of Article 10 permit Contracting Parties to carry forward and appropriately extend into the digital environment limitations and exceptions in their national laws which have been considered acceptable under the Berne Convention.
Concerning Article 12 It is understood that the referance to %quot%infringement of any right coverd by this Treaty or the Berne Convention%quot% includes both exclusive rights and rights of remuneration.
