Article 2 Territorial application This Agreement shall apply on the one hand, to the territories in which the Treaty establishing the European Community is applied and under the conditions laid down in that Treaty and, on the other hand, to the customs territory of the People’s Republic of China.
Article 3 Future developments The Contracting Parties may by mutual consent expand this Agreement with a view to increasing the levels of customs cooperation and supplementing them, in accordance with their respective customs legislation, by means of agreements on specific sectors or matters.
TITLE II SCOPE OF THE AGREEMENT Article 4 Performance of cooperation and assistance All cooperation and assistance under this Agreement shall be performed by the Contracting Parties in accordance with their relevant laws, provisions, and other legal instruments.
In respect of questions relating to the applicability of this Agreement, the Contracting Parties shall consult each other to resolve the matter in the framework of the Joint Customs Cooperation Committee set up under Article 21 of this Agreement.
TITLE III CUSTOMS COOPERATION Article 6 Scope of the cooperation 1.
Article 7 Cooperation in customs procedures The Contracting Parties affirm their commitment to the facilitation of the legitimate movement of goods and shall exchange information and expertise on measures to improve customs techniques and procedures and on computerised systems with a view towards implementing that commitment in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
Article 9 Coordination in international organisations The customs authorities shall seek to develop and strengthen their cooperation on topics of common interest in order to seek a coordinated position when those topics are discussed in the framework of international organisations.
TITLE IV MUTUAL ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANCE Article 10 Scope 1.
Article 13 Form and substance of requests for assistance 1.
Requests pursuant to paragraph 1 shall include the following information: (a) the formal endorsement of the applicant authority; (b) the action requested; (c) the object of and the reason for the request; (d) the laws, regulations or other legally binding instruments involved; (e) indications as exact and comprehensive as possible on the persons who are the target of the investigations; (f) a summary of the relevant facts and of the enquiries already carried out. 3.
Article 14 Execution of requests 1.
Article 15 Form in which information is to be communicated 1.
Article 16 Exceptions to the obligation to provide assistance 1.
For the cases referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2, the decision of the requested authority and the reasons therefor must be communicated to the applicant authority without undue delay.
Article 17 Information exchange and confidentiality 1.
Article 18 Experts and witnesses An official of a requested authority may be authorised to appear, within the limitations of authorisation granted, as an expert or witness in administrative proceedings regarding the matters covered by this Agreement in the territory of the other Contracting Party, and produce such objects, documents or certified copies thereof, as may be needed for the proceedings.
Article 19 Assistance expenses 1.
TITLE V FINAL PROVISIONS Article 20 Implementation 1.
Article 21 Joint Customs Cooperation Committee 1.
The Joint Customs Cooperation Committee will where appropriate, keep informed the Joint Commission set up under Article 15 of the Agreement on Trade and Economic Cooperation between the European Economic Community and the People’s Republic of China of activities going on under this Agreement.
Article 22 Entry into force and duration 1.
Article 23 Authentic texts This Agreement shall be drawn up in duplicate in the Czech, Danish, Dutch, English, Estonian, Finnish, French, German, Greek, Hungarian, Italian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Maltese, Polish, Portuguese, Slovak, Slovenian, Spanish, Swedish and Chinese languages, each text being equally authentic.
Done at The Hague, 8 December 2004.
