Article 2 Definitions For the purposes of this Convention, 1. "Party" means, unless the text otherwise indicates, a Contracting Party to this Convention; 2. "Public authority" means: (a) government at national, regional and other level; (b) natural or legal persons performing public administrative functions under national law, including specific duties, activities or services in relation to the environment; (c) any other natural or legal persons having public responsibilities or functions, or providing public services, in relation to the environment, under the control of a body or person falling within subparagraphs (a) or (b) above; (d) the institutions of any regional economic integration organisation referred to in Article 17 which is a Party to this Convention.
Article 3 General provisions 1.
Each Party shall endeavour to ensure that officials and authorities assist and provide guidance to the public in seeking access to information, in facilitating participation in decision-making and in seeking access to justice in environmental matters. 3.
Article 4 Access to environmental information (a) without an interest having to be stated; (i) it is reasonable for the public authority to make it available in another form, in which case reasons shall be given for making it available in that form; or (ii) the information is already publicly available in another form. 2.
The environmental information referred to in paragraph 1 above shall be made available as soon as possible and at the latest within one month after the request has been submitted, unless the volume and the complexity of the information justify an extension of this period up to two months after the request.
Where a public authority does not hold the environmental information requested, this public authority shall, as promptly as possible, inform the applicant of the public authority to which it believes it is possible to apply for the information requested or transfer the request to that authority and inform the applicant accordingly. 6.
Article 6 Public participation in decisions on specific activities (a) shall apply the provisions of this article with respect to decisions on whether to permit proposed activities listed in Annex I; (b) shall, in accordance with its national law, also apply the provisions of this article to decisions on proposed activities not listed in Annex I which may have a significant effect on the environment.
The public participation procedures shall include reasonable time-frames for the different phases, allowing sufficient time for informing the public in accordance with paragraph 2 above and for the public to prepare and participate effectively during the environmental decision-making. 4.
Each Party shall ensure that, when a public authority reconsiders or updates the operating conditions for an activity referred to in paragraph 1, the provisions of paragraphs 2 to 9 of this Article are applied mutatis mutandis, and where appropriate. 11.
Article 7 Public participation concerning plans, programmes and policies relating to the environment Each Party shall make appropriate practical and/or other provisions for the public to participate during the preparation of plans and programmes relating to the environment, within a transparent and fair framework, having provided the necessary information to the public.
Article 9 Access to justice 1.
Each Party shall, within the framework of its national legislation, ensure that any person who considers that his or her request for information under Article 4 has been ignored, wrongfully refused, whether in part or in full, inadequately answered, or otherwise not dealt with in accordance with the provisions of that article, has access to a review procedure before a court of law or another independent and impartial body established by law.
In the circumstances where a Party provides for such a review by a court of law, it shall ensure that such a person also has access to an expeditious procedure established by law that is free of charge or inexpensive for reconsideration by a public authority or review by an independent and impartial body other than a court of law.
Final decisions under this paragraph 1 shall be binding on the public authority holding the information.
The provisions of this paragraph 2 shall not exclude the possibility of a preliminary review procedure before an administrative authority and shall not affect the requirement of exhaustion of administrative review procedures prior to recourse to judicial review procedures, where such a requirement exists under national law. 3.
In addition and without prejudice to the review procedures referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 above, each Party shall ensure that, where they meet the criteria, if any, laid down in its national law, members of the public have access to administrative or judicial procedures to challenge acts and omissions by private persons and public authorities which contravene provisions of its national law relating to the environment. 4.
Article 10 Meeting of the parties 1.
The United Nations, its specialised agencies and the International Atomic Energy Agency, as well as any State or regional economic integration organisation entitled under Article 17 to sign this Convention but which is not a Party to this Convention, and any intergovernmental organisation qualified in the fields to which this Convention relates, shall be entitled to participate as observers in the meetings of the Parties. 5.
For the purposes of paragraphs 4 and 5 above, the rules of procedure referred to in paragraph 2(h) above shall provide for practical arrangements for the admittance procedure and other relevant terms.
Article 11 Right to vote 1.
Except as provided for in paragraph 2 below, each Party to this Convention shall have one vote. 2.
Article 12 Secretariat (a) the convening and preparing of meetings of the Parties; (b) the transmission to the Parties of reports and other information received in accordance with the provisions of this Convention; and (c) such other functions as may be determined by the Parties.
Article 13 Annexes The annexes to this Convention shall constitute an integral part thereof.
Article 14 Amendments to the Convention 1.
Amendments to this Convention adopted in accordance with paragraph 3 above shall be communicated by the Depositary to all Parties for ratification, approval or acceptance.
Thereafter they shall enter into force for any other Party on the 90th day after that Party deposits its instrument of ratification, approval or acceptance of the amendments. 5.
Party that is unable to approve an amendment to an annex to this Convention shall so notify the Depositary in writing within 12 months from the date of the communication of the adoption.
Article 15 Review of compliance The Meeting of the Parties shall establish, on a consensus basis, optional arrangements of a non-confrontational, non-judicial and consultative nature for reviewing compliance with the provisions of this Convention.
Article 16 Settlement of disputes 1.
If the parties to the dispute have accepted both means of dispute settlement referred to in paragraph 2 above, the dispute may be submitted only to the International Court of Justice, unless the parties agree otherwise.
Article 17 Signature This Convention shall be open for signature at Aarhus (Denmark) on 25 June 1998, and thereafter at United Nations Headquarters in New York until 21 December 1998, by States' members of the Economic Commission for Europe as well as States having consultative status with the Economic Commission for Europe pursuant to paragraphs 8 and 11 of Economic and Social Council Resolution 36 (IV) of 28 March 1947, and by regional economic integration organisations constituted by sovereign States' members of the Economic Commission for Europe to which their Member States have transferred competence over matters governed by this Convention, including the competence to enter into treaties in respect of these matters.
Article 18 Depositary The Secretary-General of the United Nations shall act as the Depositary of this Convention.
Article 19 Ratification, acceptance, approval and accession 1.
This Convention shall be subject to ratification, acceptance or approval by signatory States and regional economic integration organisations. 2.
Any other State, not referred to in paragraph 2 above, that is a Member of the United Nations may accede to the Convention upon approval by the Meeting of the Parties. 4.
Any organisation referred to in Article 17 which becomes a Party to this Convention without any of its Member States being a Party shall be bound by all the obligations under this Convention.
In their instruments of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession, the regional economic integration organisations referred to in Article 17 shall declare the extent of their competence with respect to the matters governed by this Convention.
Article 20 Entry into force 1.
Article 21 Withdrawal At any time after three years from the date on which this Convention has come into force with respect to a Party, that Party may withdraw from the Convention by giving written notification to the Depositary.
Article 22 Authentic texts The original of this Convention, of which the English, French and Russian texts are equally authentic, shall be deposited with the Secretary-General of the United Nations.
Production and processing of metals: - metal ore (including sulphide ore) roasting or sintering installations, - installations for the production of pig-iron or steel (primary or secondary fusion) including continuous casting, with a capacity exceeding 2,5 tonnes per hour, (i) hot-rolling mills with a capacity exceeding 20 tonnes of crude steel per hour; (ii) smitheries with hammers the energy of which exceeds 50 kilojoules per hammer, where the calorific power used exceeds 20 MW; (iii) application of protective fused metal coats with an input exceeding 2 tonnes of crude steel per hour; ferrous metal foundries with a production capacity exceeding 20 tonnes per day, (i) for the production of non-ferrous crude metals from ore, concentrates or secondary raw materials by metallurgical, chemical or electrolytic processes; (ii) for the smelting, including the alloying, of non-ferrous metals, including recovered products (refining, foundry casting, etc.), with a melting capacity exceeding 4 tonnes per day for lead and cadmium or 20 tonnes per day for all other metals; installations for surface treatment of metals and plastic materials using an electrolytic or chemical process where the volume of the treatment vats exceeds 30 m3. 3.
Mineral industry: - installations for the production of cement clinker in rotary kilns with a production capacity exceeding 500 tonnes per day or lime in rotary kilns with a production capacity exceeding 50 tonnes per day or in other furnaces with a production capacity exceeding 50 tonnes per day, - installations for the production of asbestos and the manufacture of asbestos-based products, - installations for the manufacture of glass including glass fibre with a melting capacity exceeding 20 tonnes per day, - installations for melting mineral substances including the production of mineral fibres with a melting capacity exceeding 20 tonnes per day, - installations for the manufacture of ceramic products by firing, in particular roofing tiles, bricks, refractory bricks, tiles, stoneware or porcelain, with a production capacity exceeding 75 tonnes per day, and/or with a kiln capacity exceeding 4 m3 and with a setting density per kiln exceeding 300 kg/m3. 4.
Waste management: - installations for the incineration, recovery, chemical treatment or landfill of hazardous waste, - installations for the incineration of municipal waste with a capacity exceeding 3 tonnes per hour, - installations for the disposal of non-hazardous waste with a capacity exceeding 50 tonnes per day, - landfills receiving more than 10 tonnes per day or with a total capacity exceeding 25000 tonnes, excluding landfills of inert waste. 6.
Waste-water treatment plants with a capacity exceeding 150000 population equivalent. 7.
Extraction of petroleum and natural gas for commercial purposes where the amount extracted exceeds 500 tonnes/day in the case of petroleum and 500000 cubic metres/day in the case of gas. 13.
Dams and other installations designed for the holding back or permanent storage of water, where a new or additional amount of water held back or stored exceeds 10 million cubic metres. 14.
Quarries and opencast mining where the surface of the site exceeds 25 hectares, or peat extraction, where the surface of the site exceeds 150 hectares. 17.
Construction of overhead electrical power lines with a voltage of 220 kV or more and a length of more than 15 km. 18.
Installations for the storage of petroleum, petrochemical, or chemical products with a capacity of 200000 tonnes or more. - plants for the pretreatment (operations such as washing, bleaching, mercerization) or dyeing of fibres or textiles where the treatment capacity exceeds 10 tonnes per day, (a) Slaughterhouses with a carcase production capacity greater than 50 tonnes per day. (i) animal raw materials (other than milk) with a finished product production capacity greater than 75 tonnes per day. (ii) vegetable raw materials with a finished product production capacity greater than 300 tonnes per day (average value on a quarterly basis). (c) Treatment and processing of milk, the quantity of milk received being greater than 200 tonnes per day (average value on an annual basis): installations for the disposal or recycling of animal carcasses and animal waste with a treatment capacity exceeding 10 tonnes per day, installations for the surface treatment of substances, objects or products using organic solvents, in particular for dressing, printing, coating, degreasing, waterproofing, sizing, painting, cleaning or impregnating, with a consumption capacity of more than 150 kg per hour or more than 200 tonnes per year, installations for the production of carbon (hard-burnt coal) or electrographite by means of incineration or graphitisation. 20.
Any activity not covered by paragraphs 1 to 19 above where public participation is provided for under an environmental impact assessment procedure in accordance with national legislation. 21.
The arbitral tribunal shall consist of three members.
Both the claimant Party or Parties and the other Party or Parties to the dispute shall appoint an arbitrator, and the two arbitrators so appointed shall designate by common agreement the third arbitrator, who shall be the president of the arbitral tribunal.
The arbitral tribunal shall render its decision in accordance with international law and the provisions of this Convention. 6.
Any arbitral tribunal constituted under the provisions set out in this annex shall draw up its own rules of procedure. 7.
The tribunal may take all appropriate measures to establish the facts. 9.
The Parties to the dispute shall facilitate the work of the arbitral tribunal and, in particular, using all means at their disposal, shall: (a) provide it with all relevant documents, facilities and information; (b) enable it, where necessary, to call witnesses or experts and receive their evidence. 10.
The arbitral tribunal may, at the request of one of the Parties, recommend interim measures of protection. 12.
If one of the Parties to the dispute does not appear before the arbitral tribunal or fails to defend its case, the other party may request the tribunal to continue the proceedings and to render its final decision.
The tribunal shall keep a record of all its expenses, and shall furnish a final statement thereof to the parties. 15.
Any Party to this Convention which has an interest of a legal nature in the subject matter of the dispute, and which may be affected by a decision in the case, may intervene in the proceedings with the consent of the tribunal. 16.
The award of the arbitral tribunal shall be accompanied by a statement of reasons.
Any dispute which may arise between the Parties concerning the interpretation or execution of the award may be submitted by either party to the arbitral tribunal which made the award or, if the latter cannot be seized thereof, to another tribunal constituted for this purpose in the same manner as the first. --------------------------------------------------
