Agreement between the European Union and Romania on the participation of Romania in the European Union Police Mission (EUPM) in Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH) Agreement between the European Union and Romania on the participation of Romania in the European Union Police Mission (EUPM) in Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH) THE EUROPEAN UNION, on the one hand, and ROMANIA, on the other hand, together hereinafter referred to as the %quot%Participating Parties%quot%, TAKING INTO ACCOUNT - the presence of the United Nations International Police Task Force (IPTF) in Bosnia and Herzegovina since 1996 and the offer of the European Union to ensure, by 1 January 2003, the follow-on to the IPTF in Bosnia and Herzegovina, - the acceptance by Bosnia and Herzegovina of that offer, by Exchange of Letters of 2 and 4 March 2002, which provides, inter alia, that the EUPM planning team be granted the status currently applicable to the members of the European Union Monitoring Mission (EUMM) in Bosnia and Herzegovina, - the adoption by the Council of the European Union on 11 March 2002 of Joint Action 2002/210/CFSP on the European Union Police Mission(1) stating that non-EU European NATO members and other States which are candidates for accession to the European Union as well as other non-EU OSCE Member States, currently providing staff to IPTF, are invited to contribute to the EUPM, - the agreement concluded on 4 October 2002 between the EU and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the activities of the EUPM in Bosnia and Herzegovina(2), including provisions on the status of the EUPM personnel, HAVE AGREED AS FOLLOWS: Article 1 Framework Romania shall associate itself with the provisions of Joint Action 2002/210/CFSP on the European Union Police Mission (EUPM) in Bosnia and Herzegovina including its Annex on the mission statement for EUPM, adopted by the Council of the European Union on 11 March 2002, in accordance with the provisions stipulated in the following Articles.
Article 2 Personnel seconded to the EUPM 1.
Article 3 Status of personnel seconded to the EUPM 1.
Personnel seconded to the EUPM by Romania shall be covered, until 31 December 2002 under the agreement applicable to the EUPM planning team, and as of 1 January 2003 under the agreement concluded on 4 October 2002 between the European Union and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the activities of the EUPM in Bosnia and Herzegovina. 2.
The Head of Mission/Police Commissioner shall lead the EUPM and assume its day-to-day management. 5.
The EUPM Head of Mission/Police Commissioner shall be responsible for disciplinary control over mission personnel.
Article 5 Classified information Romania shall take appropriate measures to ensure that, when EU classified information is handled by its personnel seconded to the EUPM, this personnel respects the Council of the European Union's security regulations, which are contained in Council Decision 2001/264/EC(3).
Article 6 Contributions to the running costs 1.
Romania shall formally communicate to the EUPM and to the General Secretariat of the Council of the European Union the total amount of its contribution to the running costs by 15 November 2002 and thereafter by 1 November of each year and shall conclude the financial arrangement by 15 December of each year. 4.
The contributions of Romania to the running costs of the EUPM shall be deposited by 31 March of each year in the bank account which shall be indicated to that State.
Article 7 Non-compliance Should one of the Participating Parties fail to comply with its obligations laid down in the previous Articles, the other Party shall have the right to terminate this agreement by serving two months' notice.
Article 8 Entry into force This Agreement shall enter into force upon signature.
