Interest payments which are made to beneficial owners within the meaning of Article 4 who are residents of a Member State of the European Union, hereinafter referred to as "Member State", by a paying agent established on the territory of Liechtenstein, shall, subject to Article 2, be subject to a retention from the amount of the interest payment.
The rate of retention shall be 15 % during the first three years from the date of application of this Agreement, 20 % for the subsequent three years and 35 % thereafter. 2.
Article 2 Voluntary disclosure 1.
The competent authority of Liechtenstein shall communicate the information referred to in paragraph 2 to the competent authority of the Member State of residence of the beneficial owner.
Article 3 Basis of assessment for retention 1.
This shall, in particular, include the Liechtenstein Couponsteuer at a rate of 4 %.
Article 4 Definition of beneficial owner 1.
An individual is not deemed to be the beneficial owner when he or she: (a) acts as a paying agent within the meaning of Article 6 or (b) acts on behalf of a legal person, an investment fund or a comparable or equivalent body for common investments in securities or (c) acts on behalf of another individual who is the beneficial owner and who discloses to the paying agent his or her identity and State of residence. 2.
Article 6 Definition of paying agent For the purposes of this Agreement, "paying agent" in Liechtenstein shall mean banks under Liechtenstein banking law, securities dealers, natural and legal persons resident or established in Liechtenstein including economic operators regulated by the Liechtenstein Persons- and Companies Act (Personen- und Gesellschaftsrecht), partnerships and permanent establishments of foreign companies, which even occasionally accept, hold, invest or transfer assets of third parties or merely pay interest or secure the payment of interest in the course of their business.
Article 7 Definition of Interest Payment 1.
As regards subparagraph 1(d), when a paying agent has no information concerning the percentage of the assets invested in debt-claims or in shares or units as defined in that subparagraph, that percentage shall be considered to be above 40 %.
The percentages referred to in subparagraph 1(d) and paragraph 4 shall be determined by reference to the investment policy as laid down in the fund rules or instruments of incorporation of the undertakings or entities concerned and, failing such rules, by reference to the actual composition of the assets of the undertakings or entities concerned.
Article 8 Revenue sharing 1.
Liechtenstein shall keep 25 % of the revenue generated by the retention under this Agreement and transfer 75 % of the revenue to the Member State of residence of the beneficial owner. 2.
Such transfers shall take place for each year in one instalment per Member State at the latest within a period of 6 months following the end of the tax year in Liechtenstein.
Article 9 Elimination of double taxation 1.
The Member State of residence for tax purposes shall accept certificates issued by Liechtenstein paying agents as proper evidence of the tax or retention on the understanding that the competent authority of the Member State of residence for tax purposes will be able to obtain from the Liechtenstein competent authority verification of the information contained in the certificates issued by Liechtenstein paying agents. 3.
The Member State of residence for tax purposes of the beneficial owner may replace the tax credit mechanism referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 by a refund of the retention referred to in Article 1.
Article 10 Exchange of information 1.
The competent authorities of Liechtenstein and any Member State shall exchange information on conduct constituting tax fraud under the laws of the requested State, or the like for income covered by this Agreement. "The like" includes only offences with the same level of wrongfulness as is the case for tax fraud under the laws of the requested State.
If requested by a Member State, Liechtenstein shall enter into bilateral negotiations with that State in order to define individual categories of cases falling under "the like" in accordance with the procedure of taxation applied by that State.
Article 11 Competent Authorities For the purposes of this Agreement the competent authorities shall mean those authorities listed in Annex I.
Article 13 Review 1.
Article 14 Relationship to bilateral Double Taxation Conventions The provisions of the double taxation conventions between Liechtenstein and the Member States shall not prevent the levying of the retention for which this Agreement provides.
However, for as long as at least one Member State also applies similar provisions, the provisions of this Article shall continue to apply beyond 31 December 2010 in respect of such negotiable debt securities: - which contain gross-up and early redemption clauses, and - where the paying agent, as defined in Article 6, is established in Liechtenstein, and - where that paying agent pays interest directly to, or secures the payment of interest for the immediate benefit of, a beneficial owner resident in a Member State.
Article 16 Signing, Entry into force and Duration of Validity 1.
Article 17 Application and Suspension of Application 1.
The application of this Agreement shall be conditional on the adoption and implementation by the dependent or associated territories of the Member States mentioned in the report of the Council (Economic and Financial Affairs) to the European Council of Santa Maria da Feira of 19 and 20 June 2000, as well as by the United States of America, Switzerland, Andorra, Monaco and San Marino, respectively, of measures which conform with or are equivalent to those contained in the Directive or in this Agreement and providing for the same dates of implementation. 2.
Article 18 Claims and Final Settlement 1.
Article 19 Territorial Scope This Agreement shall apply, on the one hand, to the territories in which the Treaty establishing the European Community is applied and under the conditions laid down in that Treaty and, on the other hand, to the territory of Liechtenstein.
The list of related entities in Annex II may be amended by mutual agreement.
Article 21 Languages 1.
Por la Comunidad Europea Za Evropské společenství For Det Europæiske Fællesskab Für die Europäische Gemeinschaft Euroopa Ühenduse nimel Για την Ευρωπαϊκή Κοινότητα For the European Community Pour la Communauté européenne Per la Comunità europea Eiropas Kopienas vārdā Europos bendrijos vardu az Európai Közösség részéről Għall-Komunità Ewropea Voor de Europese Gemeenschap W imieniu Wspólnoty Europejskiej Pela Comunidade Europeia Za Európske spoločenstvo za Evropsko skupnost Euroopan yhteisön puolesta På Europeiska gemenskapens vägnar Für das Fürstentum Liechtenstein -------------------------------------------------- [1] As in the Directive, these transitional provisions also apply to negotiable debt securities held through investment funds.
