Article 2 For the purposes of the Agreement, the term 'university` shall be used to cover all types of post-secondary education and training establishments which offer, where appropriate within the framework of advanced training, qualifications or diplomas of that level, whatever such establishments may be called in the Contracting Parties.
Article 3 Unless otherwise provided in this Article, references in Annex I to this Agreement to the Member States of the Community shall be understood for the purposes of the present Agreement as referring also to Iceland.
Action 1: Establishment and operation of a European University Network The content and objectives of this Action shall be those indicated in Action 1 of Annex I to the present Agreement. (1) Universities from Iceland may formally participate in and receive funding for participation in Inter-university Cooperation Programmes (ICPs).
However, in the first year of operation of the present Agreement, ICPs including one or more universities from at least one Community Member State shall exceptionally be eligible for financial support. (2) Activities within Action 1 solely between universities from Iceland and from EFTA countries, even where such countries have a cooperation agreement with the Community concerning Erasmus, shall not be eligible for financial support. (3) Under the circumstances set out in paragraphs (1) and (2), universities from Iceland shall benefit from the measures referred to under this Action on the same basis as universities from Community Member States and under the same conditions. 2.
Action 2: Erasmus student grants scheme The content and objectives of this Action shall be those indicated in Action 2 of Annex I to the present Agreement. (1) Erasmus student grants may be awarded to students from Iceland for the purpose of facilitating a period of study in a Member State of the Community and vice versa.
Grants shall not be awarded to students from Iceland for the purpose of facilitating a period of study in another EFTA country (or vice versa), even where that country has a cooperation agreement with the Community concerning Erasmus. (2) The Erasmus grants for students moving from universities in Iceland shall be administered through the competent authority in Iceland, which shall be designated by Iceland for this purpose. (3) Under the circumstances set out in paragraphs (1) and (2), university students from Iceland may benefit from the measures referred to under Action 2 of Annex I to this Agreement, on the same basis as university students from Community Member States and under the same conditions. 3.
Action 3: Measures to promote mobility through the academic recognition of diplomas and periods of study The content and objectives of this Action shall be those indicated in Action 3 of Annex I to the present Agreement.
Action 4: Complementary measures to promote student mobility in the Community The content and objectives of this Action shall be those indicated in Action 4 of Annex I to the present Agreement.
This annual financial contribution of Iceland shall be established in proportion to the total annual budget for the Erasmus programme. 3.
In addition to the annual contribution referred to in paragraph 1 above, Iceland shall make not later than by the entry into force of this Agreement an initial contribution of ECU 4 400 to cover the costs of prior preparatory work carried out by the Commission in connection with the implementation of this Agreement. 6.
Article 5 Subject to the special requirements referred to in Article 4 of the present Agreement regarding participation by universities from Iceland, the terms and conditions for the submission and evaluation of applications and the terms and conditions for the granting and conclusion of contracts under the Erasmus programme shall be the same as those applicable to universities in the Community.
The committee shall be responsible for the implementation of the present Agreement. 3.
The committee shall adopt its own rules of procedure. 7.
The committee shall meet at the request of either Contracting Party, in accordance with the conditions to be laid down in its rules of procedure.
Article 7 Decisions concerning the selection of projects described in Annex I (Actions 1, 3 and 4) shall be taken by the Commission of the European Communities.
Article 8 The Contracting Parties shall make efforts to facilitate the free movement and residence of students, teachers and university administrators moving between Iceland and the Community for the purpose of participating in activities covered by the present Agreement.
Article 9 Iceland shall submit to the Commission, to assist the latter in drafting its annual report on Erasmus as well as a report on the experience acquired in the application of the programme, a contribution describing the national measures taken by Iceland in this regard.
Article 10 In regard to the application process, contracts, reports to be submitted and other administrative arrangements for the Erasmus programme, the languages used shall be the official languages of the Community.
Article 11 This Agreement shall apply, on the one hand, to the territories in which the Treaty establishing the Community is applied and under the conditions laid down in that Treaty and, on the other hand, to the territory of the Republic of Iceland.
Article 13 The present Agreement shall be approved by the Contracting Parties in accordance with their existing procedures.
Article 14 The present Agreement shall be drawn up in duplicate in the Danish, Dutch, English, French, German, Greek, Italian, Portuguese, Spanish and Icelandic languages, each of these texts being equally authentic.
Por el Consejo de las Comunidades Europeas For Rådet for De Europæiske Fællesskaber Für den Rat der Europäischen Gemeinschaften Ãéá ôï Óõìâïýëéï ôùí Åõñùðáúêþí ÊïéíïôÞôùí For the Council of the European Communities Pour le Conseil des Communautés européennes Per il Consiglio delle Comunità europee Voor de Raad van de Europese Gemeenschappen Pelo Conselho das Comunidades Europeias Fyrir hönd ráäs Evrópubandalaganna Por el Gobierno de la República de Islandia For regeringen for Republikken Island Für die Regierung der Republik Island Ãéá ôçí ÊõâÝñíçóç ôçò Äçìïêñáôßáò ôçò Éóëáíäßáò For the Government of the Republic of Iceland Pour le gouvernement de la république d'Islande Per il governo della Repubblica d'Islanda Voor de Regering van de Republiek IJsland Pelo Governo da República da Islândia Fyrir hönd rikisstjórnar l´yäveldisins Íslands ANNEX I ACTION 1 Establishment and operation of a European University Network 1.
In addition, grants of up to ECU 20 000 will be provided to universities organizing intensive teaching programmes of short duration involving students from several different Member States.
The proportion available for such measures shall not exceed 5 % of the total annual student grants budget. 3.
The grant-awarding authorities of the Member States will issue grants up to a maximum of ECU 5 000 per student for a stay of one year, subject to the following conditions: (a) the grants are intended to offset the additional costs of mobility, that is travel costs, foreign language preparation as necessary and higher cost of living in the host country (including, where appropriate, the extra cost of living away from the student's home country).
However, grants may be awarded exceptionally in cases where the period of study to be spent in another Member State will be granted full recognition by the degree-awarding university in that Member State, provided that this arrangement forms part of an inter-university agreement supported pursuant to Action 1; (d) no tuition fees will be charged by the host university to incoming students; where appropriate, grant-holders will continue to pay tuition fees at their home university; (e) grants will be awarded for a significant period of academic study in another Member State of three months to a full academic year, or to more than 12 months in the case of highly integrated programmes.
ACTION 4 Complementary measures to promote student mobility in the Community 1.
The cost of measures under Action 4 will not exceed 5 % of the annual appropriations for the Erasmus programme.
ANNEX II FINANCING RULES Article 1 The financial regulation in force applicable to the general budget of the European Communities shall apply, notably to the management of the appropriations.
Article 2 At the beginning of each year, or whenever the Erasmus programme is revised so as to involve an increase in the amount entered in the Community budget for its implementation, the Commission shall send to Iceland a call for funds corresponding to its contribution to the costs under the present Agreement.
