Article 2 Definitions For the purpose of this Convention: (i) %quot%nuclear installation%quot% means for each Contracting Party any land-based civil nuclear power plant under its jurisdiction including such storage, handling and treatment facilities for radioactive materials as are on the same site and are directly related to the operation of the nuclear power plant.
Article 3 Scope of application This Convention shall apply to the safety of nuclear installations.
CHAPTER 2 OBLIGATIONS (a) General provisions Article 4 Implementing measures Each Contracting Party shall take, within the framework of its national law, the legislative, regulatory and administrative measures and other steps necessary for implementing its obligations under this Convention.
Article 5 Reporting Each Contracting Party shall submit for review, prior to each meeting referred to in Article 20, a report on the measures it has taken to implement each of the obligations of this Convention.
Article 6 Existing nuclear installations Each Contracting Party shall take the appropriate steps to ensure that the safety of nuclear installations existing at the time the Convention enters into force for that Contracting Party is reviewed as soon as possible.
Article 11 Financial and human resources 1.
Article 12 Human factors Each Contracting Party shall take the appropriate steps to ensure that the capabilities and limitations of human performance are taken into account throughout the life of a nuclear installation.
Article 13 Quality assurance Each Contracting Party shall take the appropriate steps to ensure that quality assurance programmes are established and implemented with a view to providing confidence that specified requirements for all activities important to nuclear safety are satisfied throughout the life of a nuclear installation.
Article 14 Assessment and verification of safety Each Contracting Party shall take the appropriate steps to ensure that: (i) comprehensive and systematic safety assessments are carried out before the construction and commissioning of a nuclear installation and throughout its life.
Article 15 Radiation protection Each Contracting Party shall take the appropriate steps to ensure that in all operational states, the radiation exposure to the workers and the public caused by a nuclear installation shall be kept as low as reasonably achievable and that no individual shall be exposed to radiation doses which exceed prescribed national dose limits.
Article 16 Emergency preparedness 1.
CHAPTER 3 MEETINGS OF THE CONTRACTING PARTIES Article 20 Review meetings 1.
Article 21 Timetable 1.
A preparatory meeting of the Contracting Parties shall be held not later than six months after the date of entry into force of this Convention. 2.
At this preparatory meeting, the Contracting Parties shall determine the date for the first review meeting.
Article 24 Attendance 1.
Article 25 Summary reports The Contracting Parties shall adopt, by consensus, and make available to the public a document addressing issues discussed and conclusions reached during a meeting.
Article 26 Languages 1.
The languages of meetings of the Contracting Parties shall be Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian and Spanish unless otherwise provided in the Rules of Procedure. 2.
Reports submitted pursuant to Article 5 shall be prepared in the national language of the submitting Contracting Party or in a single designated language to be agreed in the Rules of Procedure.
Article 27 Confidentiality 1.
When, in the context of this Convention, a Contracting Party provides information identified by it as protected as described in paragraph 1, such information shall be used only for the purposes for which it has been provided and its confidentiality shall be respected. 3.
Article 28 Secretariat 1.
The Contracting Parties may, by consensus, request the Agency to provide other services in support of meetings of the Contracting Parties.
CHAPTER 4 FINAL CLAUSES AND OTHER PROVISIONS Article 29 Resolution of disagreements In the event of a disagreement between two or more Contracting Parties concerning the interpretation or application of this Convention, the Contracting Parties shall consult within the framework of a meeting of the Contracting Parties with a view to resolving the disagreement.
Article 30 Signature, ratification, acceptance, approval, accession 1.
Article 31 Entry into force 1.
Article 32 Amendments to the Convention 1.
The Diplomatic Conference to consider and adopt amendments to this Convention shall be convened by the depositary and held no later than one year after the appropriate decision taken in accordance with paragraph 3 of this Article.
Should this not be possible, amendments shall be adopted with a two thirds majority of all Contracting Parties. 5.
Amendments to this Convention adopted pursuant to paragraphs 3 and 4 shall be subject to ratification, acceptance, approval, or confirmation by the Contracting Parties and shall enter into force for those Contracting Parties which have ratified, accepted, approved or confirmed them on the 90th day after the receipt by the depositary of the relevant instruments by at least three fourths of the Contracting Parties.
Article 33 Denunciation 1.
Article 34 Depositary 1.
The Director General of the Agency shall be the depositary of this Convention. 2.
Article 35 Authentic texts The original of this Convention of which the Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian and Spanish texts are equally authentic, shall be deposited with the depositary, who shall send certified copies thereof to the Contracting Parties.
