Article 3 Pollution from land-based sources The Contracting Parties shall take, individually and jointly, all possible steps to prevent and eliminate pollution from land-based sources in accordance with the provisions of the Convention, in particular as provided for in Annex I.
Article 4 Pollution by dumping or incineration The Contracting Parties shall take, individually and jointly, all possible steps to prevent and eliminate pollution by dumping or incineration of wastes or other matter in accordance with the provisions of the Convention, in particular as provided for in Annex II.
Article 5 Pollution from offshore sources The Contracting Parties shall take, individually and jointly, all possible steps to prevent and eliminate pollution from offshore sources in accordance with the provisions of the Convention, in particular as provided for in Annex III.
Article 6 Assessment of the quality of the marine environment The Contracting Parties shall, in accordance with the provisions of the Convention, in particular as provided for in Annex IV: (a) undertake and publish at regular intervals joint assessments of the quality status of the marine environment and of its development, for the maritime area or for regions or subregions thereof; (b) include in such assessments both an evaluation of the effectiveness of the measures taken and planned for the protection of the marine environment and the identification of priorities for action.
Article 7 Pollution from other sources The Contracting Parties shall cooperate with a view to adopting Annexes, in addition to the Annexes mentioned in Articles 3, 4, 5 and 6, prescribing measures, procedures and standards to protect the maritime area against pollution from other sources, to the extent that such pollution is not already the subject of effective measures agreed by other international organisations or prescribed by other international conventions.
Article 8 Scientific and technical research 1.
Article 9 Access to information 1.
The Contracting Parties shall ensure that their competent authorities are required to make available the information described in paragraph 2 of this Article to any natural or legal person, in response to any response request, without that person's having to prove an interest, without unreasonable charges, as soon as possible and at the latest within two months. 2.
The Commission shall draw up its Rules of Procedure which shall be adopted by unanimous vote of the Contracting Parties. 5.
The Commission shall draw up its Financial Regulations which shall be adopted by unanimous vote of the Contracting Parties.
Article 11 Observers 1.
The Commission may, by unanimous vote of the Contracting Parties, decide to admit as an observer: (a) any State which is not a Contracting Party to the Convention; (b) any international governmental or any non-governmental organisation the activities of which are related to the Convention. 2.
Article 12 Secretariat 1.
Article 13 Decisions and recommendations 1.
Such a decision shall become binding on any other Contracting Party which has notified the Executive Secretary in writing that it is able to accept the decision from the moment of that notification or after the expiry of a period of 200 days after the adoption of the decision, whichever is later. 3.
A notification under paragraph 2 of this Article to the Executive Secretary may indicate that a Contracting Party is unable to accept a decision in so far as it relates to one or more of its dependent or autonomous territories to which the Convention applies. 4.
The Annexes and Appendices form an integral part of the Convention. 2.
Article 15 Amendment of the Convention 1.
Without prejudice to the provisions of paragraph 2 of Article 27 and to specific provisions applicable to the adoption or amendment of Annexes or Appendices, an amendment to the Convention shall be governed by the present Article. 2.
Any Contracting Party may propose an amendment to the Convention.
The Commission shall adopt the amendment by unanimous vote of the Contracting Parties. 4.
The amendment shall enter into force for those Contracting Parties which have ratified, accepted or approved it on the 30th day after receipt by the Depositary Government of notification of its ratification, acceptance or approval by at least seven Contracting Parties.
Thereafter the amendment shall enter into force for any other Contracting Party on the 30th day after that Contracting Party has deposited its instrument of ratification, acceptance or approval of the amendment.
Article 16 Adoption of Annexes The provisions of Article 15 relating to the amendment of the Convention shall also apply to the proposal, adoption and entry into force of an Annex to the Convention, except that the Commission shall adopt any Annex referred to in Article 7 by a three-quarters majority vote of the Contracting Parties.
Article 17 Amendment of Annexes 1.
The provisions of Article 15 relating to the amendment of the Convention shall also apply to an amendment to an Annex to the Convention, except that the Commission shall adopt amendments to any Annex referred to in Articles 3, 4, 5, 6 or 7 by a three-quarters majority vote of the Contracting Parties bound by that Annex. 2.
Article 18 Adoption of Appendices 1.
If a proposed Appendix is related to an amendment to the Convention or an Annex, proposed for adoption in accordance with Article 15 or Article 17, the proposal, adoption and entry into force of that Appendix shall be governed by the same provisions as apply to the proposal, adoption and entry into force of that amendment. 2.
If a proposed Appendix is related to an Annex to the Convention, proposed for adoption in accordance with Article 16, the proposal, adoption and entry into force of that Appendix shall be governed by the same provisions as apply to the proposal, adoption and entry into force of that Annex.
Article 19 Amendment of Appendices 1.
Any Contracting Party bound by an Appendix may propose an amendment to that Appendix.
The text of the proposed amendment shall be communicated to all Contracting Parties to the Convention by the Executive Secretary of the Commission as provided for in paragraph 2 of Article 15. 2.
A notification under paragraph 3 of this Article to the Depositary Government may indicate that a Contracting Party is unable to accept the amendment in so far as it relates to one or more of its dependent or autonomous territories to which the Convention applies. 5.
An amendment to an Appendix shall become binding on any other Contracting Party bound by the Appendix which has notified the Depositary Government in writing that it is able to accept the amendment from the moment of that notification or after the expiry of a period of 200 days after the adoption of the amendment, whichever is later. 6.
Article 20 Right to vote 1.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article, the European Community and other regional economic integration organisations, within the areas of their competence, are entitled to a number of votes equal to the number of their Member States which are Contracting Parties to the Convention.
Article 21 Transboundary pollution 1.
Article 22 Reporting to the Commission The Contracting Parties shall report to the Commission at regular intervals on: (a) the legal, regulatory, or other measures taken by them for the implementation of the provisions of the Convention and of decisions and recommendations adopted thereunder, including in particular measures taken to prevent and punish conduct in contravention of those provisions; (b) the effectiveness of the measures referred to in subparagraph (a) of this Article; (c) problems encountered in the implementation of the provisions referred to in subparagraph (a) of this Article.
Article 23 Compliance The Commission shall: (a) on the basis of the periodical reports referred to in Article 22 and any other report submitted by the Contracting Parties, assess their compliance with the Convention and the decisions and recommendations adopted thereunder; (b) when appropriate, decide upon and call for steps to bring about full compliance with the Convention, and decisions adopted thereunder, and promote the implementation of recommendations, including measures to assist a Contracting Party to carry out its obligations.
Article 24 Regionalisation The Commission may decide that any decision or recommendation adopted by it shall apply to all, or a specified part, of the maritime area and may provide for different timetables to be applied, having regard to the differences between ecological and economic conditions in the various regions and subregions covered by the Convention.
Article 25 Signature The Convention shall be open for signature at Paris from 22 September 1992 to 30 June 1993 by: (a) the Contracting Parties to the Oslo Convention or the Paris Convention; (b) any other coastal State bordering the maritime area; (c) any State located upstream on watercourses reaching the maritime area; (d) any regional economic integration organisation having as a member at least one State to which any of the subparagraphs (a) to (c) of this Article applies.
Article 26 Ratification, acceptance or approval The Convention shall be subject to ratification, acceptance or approval.
Article 27 Accessions 1.
After 30 June 1993, the Convention shall be open for accession by the States and regional economic integration organizations referred to in Article 25. 2.
Any such accession shall relate to the Convention including any Annex and any Appendix that have been adopted at the date of such accession, except when the instrument of accession contains an express declaration of non-acceptance of one or several Annexes other than Annexes I, II, III and IV. 4.
Article 28 Reservations No reservations to the Convention may be made.
Article 29 Entry into force 1.
The Convention shall enter into force on the 30th day following the date on which all Contracting Parties to the Oslo Convention and all Contracting Parties to the Paris Convention have deposited their instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession. 2.
For any State or regional economic integration organisation not referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, the Convention shall enter into force in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Article, or on the 30th day following the date of the deposit of the instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession by that State or regional economic integration organisations, whichever is later.
Article 30 Withdrawal 1.
At any time after the expiry of two years from the date of entry into force of the Convention for a Contracting Party, that Contracting Party may withdraw from the Convention by notification in writing to the Depositary Government. 2.
Except as may be otherwise provided in an Annex other than Annexes I to IV to the Convention, any Contracting Party may at any time after the expiry of two years from the date of entry into force of such Annex for that Contracting Party withdraw from such Annex by notification in writing to the Depositary Government. 3.
Any withdrawal referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article shall take effect one year after the date on which the notification of that withdrawal is received by the Depositary Government.
Article 31 Replacement of the Oslo and Paris Conventions 1.
Notwithstanding paragraph 1 of this Article, decisions, recommendations and all other agreements adopted under the Oslo Convention or the Paris Convention shall continue to be applicable, unaltered in their legal nature, to the extent that they are compatible with, or not explicitly terminated by, the Convention, any decisions or, in the case of existing recommendations, any recommendations adopted thereunder.
Article 32 Settlement of disputes 1.
The tribunal shall keep a record of all its expenses, and shall furnish a final statement thereof to the parties. 9.
Article 33 Duties of the Depositary Government The Depositary Government shall inform the Contracting Parties and the signatories to the Convention: (a) of the deposit of instruments of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession, of declarations of non-acceptance and of notifications of withdrawal in accordance with Articles 26, 27 and 30; (b) of the date on which the Convention comes into force in accordance with Article 29; (c) of the receipt of notifications of acceptance, of the deposit of instruments of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession and of the entry into force of amendments to the Convention and of the adoption and amendment of Annexes or Appendices, in accordance with Articles 15, 16, 17, 18 and 19.
Article 34 Original text The original of the Convention, of which the French and English texts shall be equally authentic, shall be deposited with the Government of the French Republic which shall send certified copies thereof to the Contracting Parties and the signatories to the Convention and shall deposit a certified copy with the Secretary-General of the United Nations for registration and publication in accordance with Article 102 of the United Nations Charter.
ANNEX I THE PREVENTION AND ELIMINATION OF POLLUTION FROM LAND-BASED SOURCES Article 1 1.
When adopting programmes and measures for the purpose of this Annex, the Contracting Parties shall require, either individually or jointly, the use of: - best available techniques for point sources, - best environmental practice for point and diffuse sources, including, where appropriate, clean technology. 2.
Such authorisation or regulation shall, in particular, implement relevant decisions of the Commission which bind the relevant Contracting Party. 2.
Article 3 For the purposes of this Annex, it shall, inter alia, be the duty of the Commission to draw up: (a) plans for the reduction and phasing out of substances that are toxic, persistent and liable to bioaccumulate arising from land-based sources; (b) when appropriate, programmes and measures for the reduction of inputs of nutrients from urban, municipal, industrial, agricultural and other sources.
ANNEX II THE PREVENTION AND ELIMINATION OF POLLUTION BY DUMPING OR INCINERATION Article 1 This Annex shall not apply to any deliberate disposal in the maritime area of: (a) wastes or other matter from offshore installations; (b) offshore installations and offshore pipelines.
Article 2 Incineration is prohibited.
The dumping of all wastes or other matter is prohibited, except for those wastes or other matter listed in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Article. 2.
The Contracting Parties shall ensure that: (a) no wastes or other matter listed in paragraph 2 of Article 3 of this Annex shall be dumped without authorisation by their competent authorities, or regulation; (b) such authorisation or regulation is in accordance with the relevant applicable criteria, guidelines and procedures adopted by the Commission in accordance with Article 6 of this Annex; (c) with the aim of avoiding situations in which the same dumping operation is authorised or regulated by more than one Contracting Party, their competent authorities shall, as appropriate, consult before granting an authorisation or applying regulation. 2.
Any authorisation or regulation under paragraph 1 of this Article shall not permit the dumping of vessels or aircraft containing substances which result or are likely to result in hazards to human health, harm to living resources and marine ecosystems, damage to amenities or interference with other legitimate uses of the sea. 3.
Such authorisation or regulation shall be in accordance with the relevant applicable criteria, guidelines and procedures adopted by the Commission in accordance with Article 6 of this Annex.
Article 7 The provisions of this Annex concerning dumping shall not apply in case of force majeure, due to stress of weather or any other cause, when the safety of human life or of a vessel or aircraft is threatened.
Article 8 The Contracting Party shall take appropriate measures, both individually and within relevant international organisations, to prevent and eliminate pollution resulting from the abandonment of vessels or aircraft in the maritime area caused by accidents.
Article 9 In an emergency, if a Contracting Party considers that wastes or other matter the dumping of which is prohibited under this Annex cannot be disposed of on land without unacceptable danger or damage, it shall forthwith consult other Contracting Parties with a view to finding the most satisfactory methods of storage or the most satisfactory means of destruction or disposal under the prevailing circumstances.
Any Contracting Party whose authorities receive such a report shall, if it considers it appropriate, accordingly inform any other Contracting Party concerned. 3.
Such authorisation or regulation shall, in particular, implement the relevant applicable decisions, recommendations and all other agreements adopted under the Convention. 2.
The competent authorities of the Contracting Parties shall provide for a system of monitoring and inspection to assess compliance with authorisation or regulation as provided for in paragraph 1 of Article 4 of this Annex.
No disused offshore installation or disused offshore pipeline shall be dumped and no disused offshore installation shall be left wholly or partly in place in the maritime area without a permit issued by the competent authority of the relevant Contracting Party on a case-by-case basis.
Any Contracting Party which intends to take the decision to issue a permit for the dumping of a disused offshore installation or a disused offshore pipeline placed in the maritime area after 1 January 1998 shall, through the medium of the Commission, inform the other Contracting Parties of its reasons for accepting such dumping, in order to make consultation possible. 4.
Article 6 Articles 3 and 5 of this Annex shall not apply in case of force majeure, due to stress of weather or any other cause, when the safety of human life or of an offshore installation is threatened.
Article 7 The Contracting Parties shall take appropriate measures, both individually and within relevant international organisations, to prevent and eliminate pollution resulting from the abandonment of offshore installations in the maritime area caused by accidents.
Article 8 No placement of a disused offshore installation or a disused offshore pipeline in the maritime area for a purpose other than that for which it was originally designed or constructed shall take place without authorisation or regulation by the competent authority of the relevant Contracting Party.
Such authorisation or regulation shall be in accordance with the relevant applicable criteria, guidelines and procedures adopted by the Commission in accordance with subparagraph (d) of Article 10 of this Annex.
This provision shall not be taken to permit the dumping of disused offshore installations or disused offshore pipelines in contravention of the provisions of this Annex.
Any Contracting Party whose authorities receive such a report shall, if it considers it appropriate, accordingly inform any other Contracting Party concerned. 2.
Article 10 For the purposes of this Annex, it shall, inter alia, be the duty of the Commission: (a) to collect information about substances which are used in offshore activities and, on the basis of that information, to agree lists of substances for the purposes of paragraph 1 of Article 4 of this Annex; (b) to list substances which are toxic, persistent and liable to bioaccumulate and to draw up plans for the reduction and phasing out of their use on, or discharge from, offshore sources; (c) to draw up criteria, guidelines and procedures for the prevention of pollution from dumping of disused offshore installations and of disused offshore pipelines, and the leaving in place of offshore installations, in the maritime area; (d) to draw up criteria, guidelines and procedures relating to the placement of disused offshore installations and disused offshore pipelines referred to in Article 8 of this Annex, with a view to preventing and eliminating pollution.
ANNEX IV THE ASSESSMENT OF THE QUALITY OF THE MARINE ENVIRONMENT Article 1 1.
Article 2 For the purposes of this Annex, the Contracting Parties shall: (a) cooperate in carrying out monitoring programmes and submit the resulting data to the Commission; (b) comply with quality assurance prescriptions and participate in intercalibration exercises; (c) use and develop, individually or preferably jointly, other duly validated scientific assessment tools, such as modelling, remote sensing and progressive risk assessment strategies; (d) carry out, individually or preferably jointly, research which is considered necessary to assess the quality of the marine environment, and to increase knowledge and scientific understanding of the marine environment and, in particular, of the relationship between inputs, concentration and effects; (e) take into account scientific progress which is considered to be useful for such assessment purposes and which has been made elsewhere either on the initiative of individual researchers and research institutions, or through other national and international research programmes or under the auspices of the European Economic Community or other regional economic integration organisations.
Article 3 For the purposes of this Annex, it shall, inter alia, be the duty of the Commission: (a) to define and implement programmes of collaborative monitoring and assessment-related research, to draw up codes of practice for the guidance of participants in carrying out these monitoring programmes and to approve the presentation and interpretation of their results; (b) to carry out assessments taking into account the results of relevant monitoring and research and the data relating to inputs of substances or energy into the maritime area which are provided by virtue of other Annexes to the Convention, as well as other relevant information; (c) to seek, where appropriate, the advice or services of competent regional organisations and other competent international organisations and competent bodies with a view to incorporating the latest results of scientific research; (d) to cooperate with competent regional organisations and other competent international organisations in carrying out quality status assessments.
Appendix 2 Criteria mentioned in paragraph 2 of Article 1 of Annex I and in paragraph 2 of Article 2 of Annex III 1.
