Besides the children covered by the Agreements provided for in Articles 28 and 29, other children may attend the Schools within the limits set by the Board of Governors.
The Schools are listed in Annex I, which may be amended by the Board of Governors to take account of decisions made under Articles 2, 28 and 31.
Years of study seccessfully completed at the School and diplomas and certificates in respect thereof shall be recognized in the territory of the Member States, in accordance with a table of equivalence, under conditions determined by the Board of Governors as laid down in Article 11 and subject to the agreement of the competent national authorities. 2.
The European baccalaureate, which is the subject of the Agreement of 11 April 1984 amending the Annex to the Statute of the European School laying down the regulations for the European baccalaureate, hereafter referred to as the 'European baccalaureate Agreement`, shall be awarded upon completion of the cycle of secondary studies.
Article 6 Each School shall have the legal personality necessary for the attainment of its purpose, as defined in Article 1.
CHAPTER I The Board of Governors Article 8 1.
Subject to Article 28, the Board of Governors shall consist of the following members: (a) the representative or representatives at ministerial level of each of the Member States of the European Communities authorised to commit the Government of that Member State, on the understanding that each Member State has only one vote; (b) a member of the Commission of the European Communities; (c) a representative designated by the Staff Committee (from among the teaching staff) in accordance with Article 22; (d) a representative of the pupils' parents designated by the Parents' associations in accordance with Article 23. 2.
Save in cases where unanimity is required by this Convention, decisions of the Board of Governors shall be adopted by a two-thirds majority of the members comprising it, subject to the following provisions: (a) adoption of a decision affecting the specific interests of a Member State, such as the significant extension of the premises or the closure of a School established in its territory, shall require a favourable vote by the representative of that Member State; (b) the closure of a School shall require a favourable vote by the Member of the Commission; (c) the representative of an organization governed by public law who has obtained a seat and a vote on the Board of Governors pursuant to an agreement based on Article 28 shall vote on all matters relating to the School covered by such agreement; (d) the right to vote of the representative of the Staff Committee mentioned in Article 8 (1) (c) and the representative of the pupils' parents mentioned in Article 8 (1) (d) shall be restricted to the adoption of decisions on educational matters under Article 11, with the exclusion of decisions concerning adaptations to the European baccalaureate Agreement and decisions having financial or budgetary effects. 2.
Article 10 The Board of Governors shall supervise the implementation of this Convention; for this purpose, it shall have the necessary decision-making powers in educational, budgetary and administrative matters, and for the negotiation of the Agreements referred to in Articles 28 to 30.
It may set up committees with responsibility for preparing its decisions.
Article 11 In educational matters, the Board of Governors shall determine which studies shall be undertaken and how they shall be organized.
Article 12 In administrative matters, the Board of Governors shall: 1.
The Board of Governors shall, by no later than 30 April of each year, establish an estimate of revenue and expenditure of the Schools for the following financial year and forward it forthwith to the Commission, which shall, on that basis, establish the necessary forecasts in the preliminary draft general budget of the European Communities.
He shall be responsible to the Board of Governors.
CHAPTER 2 The Boards of Inspectors Article 15 Two Boards of Inspectors shall be set up for the purposes of the Schools: one for the nursery schools and the primary schools, the other for the secondary schools.
Article 16 Each Member State which is a Contracting Party shall be represented by one Inspector on each Board.
Article 17 It shall be the task of the Boards of Inspectors to ensure the quality of the education provided by the Schools and to this end to ensure that the requisite inspections are carried out in the Schools.
They shall submit to the Board of Governors the opinions and proposals provided for in Articles 11 and 12 respectively and, if need be, proposals for changes in curricula and for the organization of studies.
The procedures for the convening of meetings and for decision-making by the Administrative Boards shall be laid down in the General Rules of the Schools provided for in Article 10.
CHAPTER 4 The Headteacher Article 21 The Headteacher shall discharge his duties in accordance with the General Rules provided for in Article 10.
He shall be responsible to the Board of Governors.
TITLE III STAFF REPRESENTATION Article 22 A Staff Committee shall be established comprising elected representatives of the teaching staff and of the administrative and ancillary staff of each School.
TITLE IV THE PARENTS' ASSOCIATION Article 23 For the purpose of maintaining relations between the pupils' parents and the School authorities, the Board of Governors shall recognize for each School the Association which is representative of the pupils' parents.
TITLE V THE BUDGET Article 24 The financial year of the Schools shall correspond to the calendar year.
TITLE VI DISPUTES Article 26 The Court of Justice of the European Communities shall have sole jurisdiction in disputes between Contracting Parties relating to the interpretation and application of this Convention which have not been resolved by the Board of Governors.
The rules of procedure shall require the unanimous approval of the Board of Governors. 6.
Article 29 The Board of Governors, acting unanimously, may also negotiate agreements other than participation Agreements with organizations or institutions governed by public or private law which have an interest in the operation of one of the Schools.
Article 30 The Board of Governors may negotiate with the Government of a country in which a School is located any additional Agreement required to ensure that the School can operate under the best possible conditions.
Denunciation shall be notified by 1 September of any year in order to take effect on 1 September the following year. 2.
Article 32 Applications for the accession to this Convention of any State becoming a member of the Community shall be made in writing to the Luxembourg Government, which shall inform each of the other Contracting Parties thereof.
Article 33 This Convention shall be ratified by the Member States as Contracting Parties in accordance with their respective constitutional requirements.
Article 34 This Convention cancels and replaces the Statute of 12 April 1957 and the Protocol thereto of 13 April 1962.
The supplementary Protocol concerning the Munich School, drawn up with reference to the Protocol of 13 April 1962 and signed at Luxembourg on 15 December 1975, shall be unaffected by this Convention.
Pour le royaume de Belgique Voor het Koninkrijk België Für das Königreich Belgien %gt%REFERENCE TO A FILM%gt% På Kongeriget Danmarks vegne %gt%REFERENCE TO A FILM%gt% Für die Bundesrepublik Deutschland %gt%REFERENCE TO A FILM%gt% Ãéá ôçí ÅëëçíéêÞ Äçìïêñáôßá %gt%REFERENCE TO A FILM%gt% Por el Reino de España %gt%REFERENCE TO A FILM%gt% Pour la République française %gt%REFERENCE TO A FILM%gt% Thar cheann Na hÉireann For Ireland %gt%REFERENCE TO A FILM%gt% Per la Repubblica italiana %gt%REFERENCE TO A FILM%gt% Pour le grand-duché de Luxembourg %gt%REFERENCE TO A FILM%gt% Voor het Koninkrijk der Nederlanden %gt%REFERENCE TO A FILM%gt% Pela República Portuguesa %gt%REFERENCE TO A FILM%gt% For the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland %gt%REFERENCE TO A FILM%gt% Por la Comunidad Europea y la Comunidad Europea de la Energía Atómica For Det Europæiske Fællesskab og Det Europæiske Atomenergifællesskab Für die Europäische Gemeinschaft und die Europäische Atomgemeinschaft Ãéá ôçí ÅõñùðáúêÞ Êïéíüôçôá êáé ôçí ÅõñùðáúêÞ Êïéíüôçôá ÁôïìéêÞò ÅíÝñãåéáò For the European Community and the European Atomic Energy Community Pour la Communauté européenne et la Communauté européenne de l'énergie atomique Per la Comunità europea e la Comunità europea dell'energia atomica Voor de Europese Gemeenschap en de Europese Gemeenschap voor Atoomenergie Pela Comunidade Europeia e pela Comunidade Europeia da Energia Atómica %gt%REFERENCE TO A FILM%gt% Por la Comunidad Europea del Carbón y del Acero For Det Europæiske Kul- og Stålfællesskab Für die Europäische Gemeinschaft für Kohle und Stahl Ãéá ôçí ÅõñùðáúêÞ Êïéíüôçôá ¶íèñáêá êáé ×Üëõâá For the European Coal and Steel Community Pour la Communauté européenne du charbon et de l'acier Per la Comunità europea del carbone e dell'acciaio Voor de Europese Gemeenschap voor Kolen en Staal Pela Comunidade Europeia do Carvão e do Aço %gt%REFERENCE TO A FILM%gt% ANNEX I European Schools to which the Statute applies: European School, Bergen European School, Brussels I European School, Brussels II European School, Brussels III (1*) European School, Culham European School, Karlsruhe European School, Luxembourg European School, Mol European School, Munich European School, Varese (1*) The Board of Governors decided to establish this School at their meeting of 27/29 October 1992.
