Article 2 Objective The objective of this Agreement is to provide a framework for co-operation between the Parties in the peaceful uses of nuclear energy with a view to strengthening the overall co-operation relationship between the Community and Ukraine on the basis of mutual benefit and reciprocity and without prejudice to the respective powers of each Party.
The Parties may co-operate in the way as specified in Articles 4 to 8 of this Agreement below in the peaceful uses of nuclear energy in the following areas: (a) nuclear safety (Article 4); (b) controlled nuclear fusion (Article 5); (c) nuclear research and development in other areas than those foreseen under subparagraph (a) and (b) above (Article 6); (d) international transfers, trade in nuclear materials and provision of nuclear fuel cycle services (Article 7); (e) prevention of illicit trafficking of nuclear material (Article 8); (f) other relevant areas of mutual interest. 2.
Article 5 Controlled nuclear fusion The co-operation in the field of controlled nuclear fusion shall be implemented according to the Agreement for Co-operation between the European Atomic Energy Community and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in the Field of Controlled Nuclear Fusion, which entered into force on 13 November 2002.
Co-operation shall extend to nuclear research and development activities of mutual interest to the Parties other than those been provided for in Articles 4 and 5 of this Agreement above, as agreed between the Parties, in so far as they are covered by respective research and development activities undertaken by the Parties. 2.
Article 7 International transfers, trade in nuclear materials and provision of relevant services 1.
Any nuclear transfers carried out pursuant to the co-operation activities shall be made in accordance with the relevant international and multilateral commitments of the Parties and of the Member States of the European Union in relation to peaceful uses of nuclear energy as listed in paragraph 6 of this Article. 4.
Article 8 Prevention of illicit trafficking of nuclear material Co-operation in the field of prevention of illicit trafficking of nuclear material shall relate to the promotion of methods and techniques of control of nuclear material.
Article 9 Other areas of mutual interest 1.
The paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 of Article 6 of this Agreement are equally applicable.
Article 10 Applicable law Co-operation under this Agreement shall be in accordance with the laws and regulations in force within the Community and Ukraine as well as with the international agreements entered into by the Parties.
Article 11 Intellectual property The utilisation and diffusion of information and intellectual property rights, patents and copyrights connected with the co-operation activities under this Agreement shall be in accordance with the Annexes to the Agreements for Co-operation between the European Atomic Energy Community and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in the Field of Nuclear Safety and Controlled Nuclear Fusion as referred to above in Articles 4 and 5 of this Agreement, respectively.
Article 12 Consultation and arbitration 1.
Any dispute relating to the application or interpretation of this Agreement may be dealt with according to the procedure established by Article 96 of the Partnership and Co-operation Agreement.
Article 13 Entry into force and duration 1.
Done at Kiev, 28 April 2005.
For the European Atomic Energy Community Andris Piebalgs For the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Ivan Plachkov [1] 1.9.2006. --------------------------------------------------
