Article 2 Côte d'Ivoire shall permit fishing activities by Community vessels in the Côte d'Ivoire fishing zone in accordance with this Agreement and the conditions laid down in the Annex and the Protocol which are appended to this Agreement and form an integral part of it.
Fishing activities by Community vessels in the Côte d'Ivoire fishing zone shall be subject to possession of a licence issued by the relevant Côte d'Ivoire authorities at the Community's request. 2.
Article 5 The masters of the vessels authorized under the terms of this Agreement to fish in the Côte d'Ivoire fishing zone shall be obliged to send their statements of catch to the Côte d'Ivoire authorities, in accordance with the provisions set out in the Annex.
The programmes and studies provided for in this Article shall receive financing from the Community at the request of the Côte d'Ivoire authorities in accordance with the provisions of Article 8.
Article 7 The Parties undertake to coordinate either directly or within international organizations their efforts to ensure the management and conservation of living resources in the Central East Atlantic, and to facilitate the relevant scientific research.
Article 8 In return for the fishing rights granted under Article 2, the Community shall make a financial contribution to Côte d'Ivoire in accordance with the procedure stipulated in the Protocol attached to this Agreement, without prejudice to financing accorded to Côte d'Ivoire under the ACP-EEC Convention.
Article 9 If, on the basis of objective scientific criteria, as a result of the changing stocks situation, the Côte d'Ivoire authorities decide to apply conservation measures affecting the fishing activities of Community vessels, the Parties shall consult each other with a view to adjusting the Annex and the Protocol to the new fishing conditions imposed on these vessels.
Article 10 A joint committee shall be set up.
Article 11 Nothing in this Agreement shall affect or prejudice in any manner whatsoever the views of either Party with respect to any matter relating to the Law of the Sea.
Article 12 This Agreement shall apply, on the one hand, to the territories in which the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community is applied and under the conditions laid down in that Treaty and, on the other, to the territory of Republic of Côte d'Ivoire.
Article 13 This Agreement shall be concluded for an initial period of three years from the date of its entry into force.
Article 14 This Agreement, drawn up in duplicate in the Danish, Dutch, English, French, German, Greek, Italian, Portuguese and Spanish languages, all the texts being equally authentic, shall enter into force on the date of its signature.
The relevant Community authorities shall present to the Office of the Secretary of State for Fisheries of Côte d'Ivoire, via the Commission Delegation in Côte d'Ivoire, an application for each vessel wishing to fish under the Agreement, at least 45 days before the date of commencement of the period of validity requested.
N° fee as laid down in Article 4 (2) of the Agreement shall be due for any unexpired period of validity. 3.
Licences shall be transmitted by the Côte d'Ivoire authorities to the Delegation of the Commission of the European Communities in Côte d'Ivoire within 45 days of receipt of the application. 4.
The original of the licence must be held on board at all times and be presented at any time on request of the competent Côte d'Ivoire authorities. 5.
Trawlers authorized under Article 2 of the Agreement must notify the competent Côte d'Ivoire authorities of any changes to the characteristics of a vessel as entered on the licence when issued and as listed in Appendix 1. 6.
The fee shall be set at ECU 20 per tonne of tuna caught within the Côte d'Ivoire fishing zone. 3.
Licences shall be issued following payment of a lump sum of ECU 1 000 a year for each tuna seiner and ECU 200 a year for each pole-and-line tuna vessel and surface longliner, equivalent to the fees payable for a catch of: - 50 tonnes of tuna per year in the case of seiners, - 10 tonnes per year of species caught by pole-and-line tuna vessels and surface longliners. 4.
Any additional payment due shall be made by the shipowners to the Côte d'Ivoire fishing services no later than 30 days after notification of the final statement.
The annual fee shall be fixed at the rate of ECU 130 per GRT for the first two years of the application of the Protocol.
Statements of catch 1.
Vessels authorized to fish in the Côte d'Ivoire fishing zone under this Agreement shall send their statements of catch to the sea-fishing services with a copy to the Delegation of the Commission of the European Communities in Côte d'Ivoire, as follows: (a) trawlers shall notify their catches using the form given in Appendix 2.
The form shall either be collected in port by the relevant departments of the Centre de recherche océanographique de Côte d'Ivoire or sent to the same department within 45 days of the end of the fishing trip spent in the Côte d'Ivoire fishing zone.
Fishing zones 1.
To protect nurseries and local small-scale fishing activities, Community vessels with licences may not carry out fishing activities as provided in Article 2 of the Agreement in the following zones: - up to six nautical miles from the coast in the case of surface longliners, pole-and-line tuna vessels and freezer trawlers, - up to the 200-metre isobath in the case of freezer tuna seiners. 2.
Authorized mesh sizes The minimum mesh size authorized (mesh fully extended) shall be: (a) 40 mm freezer trawlers taking deepwater shellfish and freezer trawlers taking cephalopods; (b) 60 mm for freezer trawlers taking fish; (c) in the case of tuna, the international standards recommended by Iccat shall apply.
Each trawler owner shall undertake to employ: - one seaman for vessels under 250 GRT, - two seamen for vessels over 250 GRT.
The owners of tuna vessels and surface longliners shall be responsible for employing Côte d'Ivoire nationals, on the following terms and subject to the following limits: - for the fleet of tuna seiners, 30 Côte d'Ivoire seamen shall be signed on, - for the fleet of pole-and-line tuna vessels, eight Côte d'Ivoire seamen shall be signed on during the tunafishing period in the Côte d'Ivoire fishing zone, each being assigned to a different vessel; - for the fleet of surface longliners, 15 Côte d'Ivoire seamen shall be signed on during the fishing period in the Côte d'Ivoire fishing zone, each being assigned to a different vessel. 2.
Seizure and detention of vessels The seizure or detention, under the terms of the applicable Côte d'Ivoire legislation, of a fishing vessel flying the flag of a Member State of the Community shall be notified to the Delegation of the Commission of the European Communities in Côte d'Ivoire within 72 hours and simultaneously to the consular agent of the Member State whose flag the vessel flies.
Appendix 1 MINISTRY FOR ANIMAL PRODUCTION BP V 84, Abidjan (Republic of Côte d'Ivoire) REPUBLIC OF CÔTE D'IVOIRE UNION-DISCIPLINE-WORK LICENCE APPLICATION FOR SEA-FISHING SECTION A %gt%TABLE%gt% SECTION B (To be completed for each vessel) %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% - three colour photographs of vessel (side view), additional boats used for fishing and additional out-of-water equipment for detecting fish, - an illustration and detailed description of the fishing gear used, - a document proving that the representative of the shipowner is empowered to sign this application. .(Date of application) .(Signature of representative of shipowner) Appendix 2 %gt%TABLE%gt% Appendix 3 %gt%TABLE%gt% Appendix 4 %gt%TABLE%gt%
