This Convention applies to any animal used or intended for use in any experimental or other scientific procedure where that procedure may cause pain, suffering, distress or lasting harm.
Article 2 A procedure may be performed for one or more of the following purposes only and subject to the restrictions laid down in this Convention: (a) (i) avoidance or prevention of disease, ill-health or other abnormality, or their effects, in man, vertebrate or invertebrate animals or plants, including the production and the quality, efficacy and safety testing of drugs, substances or products; (ii) diagnosis or treatment of disease, ill-health or other abnormality, or their effects, in man, vertebrate or invertebrate animals or plants; (b) detection, assessment, regulation or modification of physiological conditions in man, vertebrate and invertebrate animals or plants; (c) protection of the environment; (d) scientific research; (e) education and training; (f) forensic inquiries.
Article 3 Each Party undertakes to take all the necessary steps to give effect to the provisions of this Convention and to ensure an effective system of control and supervision as soon as possible and in any case within a period of five years from the date of entry into force of the present Convention in respect of that Party.
Article 4 No provision in this Convention shall affect the liberty of the Parties to adopt stricter measures for the protection of animals used in procedures or for the control and restriction of the use of animals in procedures.
PART II General care and accommodation Article 5 1.
PART III Conduct of procedure Article 6 1.
Article 7 When a procedure has to be performed, the choice of species shall be carefully considered and, where required, be explained to the responsible authority; in a choice between procedures, those should be selected which use the minimum number of animals, cause the least pain, suffering, distress or lasting harm and which are most likely to provide satisfactory results.
Article 8 A procedure shall be performed under general or local anaesthesia or analgesia or by other methods designed to eliminate as far as practicable pain, suffering, distress or lasting harm, applied throughout the procedure unless: (a) the pain caused by the procedure is less than the impairment of the animal's well-being caused by the use of anaesthesia or analgesia; or (b) the use of anaesthesia or analgesia is compatible with the aim of the procedure.
The decisions referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be taken by a competent person, in particular a veterinarian, or the person who, in accordance with Article 13, is responsible for, or has performed, the procedure. 3.
The conditions laid down in this subparagraph may, however, be waived where, in the opinion of a veterinarian, the animal would not suffer as a consequence of such exemption; (b) an animal is not to be kept alive or cannot benefit from the provisions of Article 5 for its well-being, it shall be killed by a humane method as soon as possible. 4.
Article 12 Notwithstanding the other provisions of this Convention, where it is necessary for the legitimate purposes of the procedure, the responsible authority may allow the animal concerned to be set free provided that it is satisfied that the maximum practicable care has been taken to safeguard the animal's well-being.
PART IV Authorisation Article 13 A procedure for the purposes referred to in Article 2 may be carried out only by persons authorised, or under the direct responsibility of a person authorised, or if the experimental or other scientific project concerned is authorised in accordance with the provisions of national legislation.
PART V Breeding or supplying establishments Article 14 Breeding and supplying establishments shall be registered with the responsible authority subject to the grant of an exemption under Article 21 or Article 22.
Article 15 The registration provided for in Article 14 shall specify the person in charge of the establishment, who shall be competent to administer or arrange for suitable care for animals of the species bred or kept in the establishment.
PART VI User establishments Article 18 User establishments shall be registered with or otherwise approved by the responsible authority and shall comply with the conditions laid down in Article 5.
Article 20 In user establishments: (a) the person or persons who are administratively responsible for the care of the animals and the functioning of the equipment shall be identified; (b) sufficient trained stuff shall be provided; (c) adequate arrangements shall be made for the provision of veterinary advice and treatment; (d) a veterinarian or other competent person should be charged with advisory duties in relation to the well-being of the animals.
Each Party undertakes to extend the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article to other species, in particular of the order of primates, as soon as there is a reasonable prospect of a sufficient supply of purpose-bred animals of the species concerned. 3.
A general exemption made under the conditions of paragraph 1 of this Article may not extend to stray dogs and cats.
Article 22 In user establishments, only animals supplied from registered breeding or supplying establishments shall be used, unless a general or special exemption has been obtained under arrangements to be determined by the Party.
Article 23 Procedures may, where authorised by the responsible authority, be conducted outside user establishments.
Article 24 Arrangements shall be made at user establishments to maintain records and make them available as required by the responsible authority.
In particular, these records shall be sufficient to meet the requirements of Article 27 and, in addition, show the number and species of all animals acquired, from whom they were acquired and their date of arrival.
PART VII Education and training Article 25 1.
Procedures carried out for the purpose of education, training or further training for professions or other occupations, including the care of animals being used or intended for use in procedures, must be notified to the responsible authority and shall be carried out by or under the supervision of a competent person, who will be responsible for ensuring that the procedures comply with national legislation under the terms of this Convention. 2.
Procedures referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be restricted to those absolutely necessary for the purpose of the education or training concerned and be permitted only if their objective cannot be achieved by comparably effective audio-visual or any other suitable methods.
Article 26 Persons who carry out procedures, or take part in procedures, or take care of animals used in procedures, including supervision, shall have had appropriate education and training.
PART VIII Statistical information Article 27 1.
Subject to requirements of national legislation relating to secrecy and confidentiality, each Party shall communicate every year to the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe information in respect of the items mentioned in paragraph 2 of Article 27, presented in the form set out in Appendix B to this Convention. 2.
The Secretary-General of the Council of Europe shall publish the statistical information received from the Parties in respect of the items mentioned in paragraph 2 of Article 27. 3.
PART IX Recognition of procedures carried out in the territory of another Party Article 29 1.
PART X Multilateral consultations Article 30 The Parties shall, within five years from the entry into force of this Convention and every five years thereafter, or more frequently if a majority of the Parties should so request, hold multilateral consultations within the Council of Europe to examine the application of this Convention, and the advisability of revising it or extending any of its provisions.
PART XI Final provisions Article 31 This Convention shall be open for signature by the Member States of the Council of Europe and by the European Communities.
Any Signatory may, at the time of signature or when depositing its instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession, specify the territory or territories to which this Convention shall apply. 2.
Any Party may at any later date, by a declaration addressed to the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, extend the application of this Convention to any other territory specified in the declaration.
Article 37 The Secretary-General of the Council of Europe shall notify the Member States of the Council of Europe, the European Communities and any State which has acceded to this Convention of: (a) any signature; (b) the deposit of any instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession; (c) any date of entry into force of this Convention in accordance with Articles 32, 33 and 35; (d) any other act, notification or communication relating to this Convention.
