Article 2 The Mixed Committee shall meet at the seat of the Council in Brussels.
Article 4 The Mixed Committee shall meet, at any appropriate level, when convened by its Chairperson on his/her own initiative or at the request of one of its members.
Article 5 The Mixed Committee at ministerial level shall be composed of representatives of Switzerland and the members of the Council at ministerial level, authorised to commit the governments of their States, and a member of the Commission.
Article 6 The Chairperson shall draw up the provisional agenda for each meeting.
The provisional agenda shall contain the item in respect of which a meeting has been requested in accordance with Article 4.
The invitation to the meeting and the provisional agenda shall be forwarded to the addressees mentioned in Article 9 in due time before the meeting.
Without prejudice to the rights of Switzerland laid down in Article 4 of the Agreement, the agenda shall be adopted unanimously by the Mixed Committee at the beginning of each meeting and the Mixed Committee may decide unanimously to include in the agenda an item which does not appear on the provisional agenda.
Article 7 The working documents for the Mixed Committee shall be drawn up in the languages of the Council, unless the Mixed Committee unanimously decides otherwise.
Article 8 Minutes of each meeting of the Mixed Committee at ministerial level shall be drawn up by the General Secretariat of the Council, under the responsibility of the Chairperson, and forwarded to the delegations.
The minutes shall, as a general rule, indicate in respect of each item on the agenda: - the documents submitted to the Mixed Committee, - the conclusions and decisions reached by the Mixed Committee, - the statements whose entry is requested by a delegation.
Article 9 Notifications made by the Chairperson in accordance with these Rules of Procedure shall be addressed to the Swiss mission to the European Communities, to the representations of the Member States of the European Union and to the Commission.
Article 10 The detailed arrangements for handling requests by the public to the Mixed Committee for access to its documents shall be identical to those which the Council has adopted in respect of European Parliament, Council and Commission documents [1].
Article 11 The secretariat of the Mixed Committee shall be provided by the General Secretariat of the Council.
Article 12 The deliberations of the Mixed Committee shall be confidential, unless the Mixed Committee decides otherwise.
Article 14 Where the Mixed Committee has been notified of a dispute in accordance with Article 10 of the Agreement, the dispute shall be placed on the provisional agenda for the Mixed Committee at ministerial level.
Article 15 Decisions of the Mixed Committee relating to procedural questions, except for those for which these Rules of Procedure require unanimity, shall be taken by a majority of its delegations.
Article 16 This Decision shall take effect on the date of its adoption.
Article 17 This Decision shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Done at Luxembourg, 26 October 2004.
For the Mixed Committee The Chairperson -------------------------------------------------- [1] Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2001 regarding public access to European Parliament, Council and Commission documents (OJ L 145, 31.5.2001, p. 43). [2] Council Decision 2001/264/EC of 19 March 2001 adopting the Council's security regulations (OJ L 101, 11.4.2001, p. 1).
Decision as amended by Decision 2004/194/EC (OJ L 63, 28.2.2004, p. 48).
