2000/483/EC: Partnership agreement between the members of the African, Caribbean and Pacific Group of States of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part, signed in Cotonou on 23 June 2000 - Protocols - Final Act - Declarations Annex to Decision No 1/2000 of the ACP-EC Council of Ministers of 27 July 2000 on transitional measures valid from 2 august 2000 until the entry into force of the ACP-EC Partnership Agreement(1) (1) OJ L 195, 1.8.2000, p. 46.
The partnership shall provide a coherent support framework for the development strategies adopted by each ACP State.
They shall establish, with the Community, the cooperation programmes provided for under this Agreement.
This will require: - encouraging and supporting the creation and development of such organisations; - establishing arrangements for involving such organisations in the design, implementation and evaluation of development strategies and programmes.
TITLE II THE POLITICAL DIMENSION Article 8 Political dialogue 1.
The objectives of the dialogue shall also include preventing situations arising in which one Party might deem it necessary to have recourse to the non-execution clause. 3.
Article 9 Essential Elements and Fundamental Element 1.
The Parties refer to their international obligations and commitments concerning respect for human rights.
The Parties undertake to promote and protect all fundamental freedoms and human rights, be they civil and political, or economic, social and cultural.
These areas will be an important subject for the political dialogue.
This regular assessment shall take into account each country's economic, social, cultural and historical context.
These areas will also be a focus of support for development strategies.
The Community shall provide support for political, institutional and legal reforms and for building the capacity of public and private actors and civil society in the framework of strategies agreed jointly between the State concerned and the Community.
Article 13 Migration 1.
The Parties reaffirm their existing obligations and commitments in international law to ensure respect for human rights and to eliminate all forms of discrimination based particularly on origin, sex, race, language and religion. 2.
Further in this regard, each ACP State shall accord comparable non-discriminatory treatment to workers who are nationals of a Member State. 4.
The Community shall support, through national and regional Cooperation programmes, the training of ACP nationals in their country of origin, in another ACP country or in a Member State of the European Union.
PART 2 INSTITUTIONAL PROVISIONS Article 14 The joint institutions The institutions of this Agreement are the Council of Ministers, the Committee of Ambassadors and the Joint Parliamentary Assembly.
Article 15 The Council of Ministers 1.
The Council shall meet as a rule once a year on the initiative of the President and whenever it seems necessary, in a form and a geographical composition appropriate to the issues to be addressed. 2.
The functions of the Council of Ministers shall be to: (a) conduct the political dialogue; (b) adopt the policy guidelines and take the decisions necessary for the implementation of the provisions of this Agreement, in particular as regards development strategies in the specific areas provided for by this Agreement or any other area that should prove relevant, and as regards procedures; (c) examine and resolve any issue liable to impede the effective and efficient implementation of this Agreement or present an obstacle to achieving its objectives; (d) ensure the smooth functioning of the consultation mechanisms. 3.
The Council of Ministers shall take its decisions by common agreement of the Parties.
Any member of the Council of Ministers unable to attend may be represented.
The representative shall exercise all the rights of that member.
It shall examine and take into consideration resolutions and recommendations adopted by the Joint Parliamentary Assembly.
The Council of Ministers may delegate powers to the Committee of Ambassadors. 5.
The Council of Ministers shall adopt its rules of procedure within six months of the entry into force of this Agreement.
Article 16 The Committee of Ambassadors 1.
The office of Chairman of the Committee of Ambassadors shall be held alternately by a Permanent Representative of a Member State designated by the Community, and a head of mission representing an ACP State, designated by the ACP States. 2.
The Committee shall assist the Council of Ministers in the fulfilment of its tasks and carry out any mandate entrusted to it by the Council.
The Committee of Ambassadors shall meet regularly, in particular to prepare the Council sessions and whenever it proves necessary. 3.
The Committee shall adopt its rules of procedure within six months of the entry into force of this Agreement.
The Joint Parliamentary Assembly shall be composed of equal numbers of EU and ACP representatives.
The members of the Joint Parliamentary Assembly shall be, on the one hand, members of the European Parliament and, on the other, members of parliament or, failing this, representatives designated by the parliament of each ACP State.
The role of the Joint Parliamentary Assembly, as a consultative body, shall be to: - promote democratic processes through dialogue and consultation; - facilitate greater understanding between the peoples of the European Union and those of the ACP States and raise public awareness of development issues; - discuss issues pertaining to development and the ACP-EU Partnership; - adopt resolutions and make recommendations to the Council of Ministers with a view to achieving the objectives of this Agreement. 3.
The Joint Parliamentary Assembly shall organise regular contacts with representatives of the ACP-EU economic and social partners and the other actors of civil society in order to obtain their views on the attainment of the objectives of this Agreement. 4.
The Joint Parliamentary Assembly shall adopt its rules of procedure within six months of the entry into force of this Agreement.
TITLE I DEVELOPMENT STRATEGIES CHAPTER 1 General framework Article 19 Principles and objectives 1.
In this context, cooperation framework and orientations shall be tailored to the individual circumstances of each ACP country, shall promote local ownership of economic and social reforms and the integration of the private sector and civil society actors into the development process. 2.
Governments and non-State actors in each ACP country shall initiate consultations on country development strategies and community support thereto.
Article 20 The Approach 1.
These areas shall also be eligible for Community support. 3.
The detailed texts as regards development cooperation objectives and strategies, in particular sectoral policies and strategies shall be incorporated in a compendium providing operational guidelines in specific areas or sectors of cooperation.
CHAPTER 2 Areas of support SECTION 1 Economic development Article 21 Investment and private sector development 1.
Cooperation shall support the necessary economic and institutional reforms and policies at national and/or regional level, aiming at creating a favourable environment for private investment, and the development of a dynamic, viable and competitive private sector.
Cooperation shall also support improving the quality, availability and accessibility of financial and non-financial services to private enterprises, both formal and informal; by: (a) catalysing and leveraging flows of private savings, both domestic and foreign, into the financing of private enterprises by supporting policies for developing a modern financial sector including a capital market, financial institutions and sustainable microfinance operations; (b) the development and strengthening of business institutions and intermediary organisations, associations, chambers of commerce and local providers from the private sector supporting and providing non-financial services to enterprises such as professional, technical, management, training and commercial support services; and (c) supporting institutions, programmes, activities and initiatives that contribute to the development and transfer of technologies and know-how and best practices on all aspects of business management. 3.
Cooperation shall promote business development through the provision of finance, guarantee facilities and technical support aimed at encouraging and supporting the creation, establishment, expansion, diversification, rehabilitation, restructuring, modernisation or privatisation of dynamic, viable and competitive enterprises in all economic sectors as well as financial intermediaries such as development finance and venture capital institutions, and leasing companies by: (a) creating and/or strengthening financial instruments in the form of investment capital; (b) improving access to essential inputs such as business information and advisory, consultancy or technical assistance services; (c) enhancement of export activities, in particular through capacity building in all trade-related areas; and (d) encouraging inter-firm linkages, networks and cooperation including those involving the transfer of technology and know-how at national, regional and ACP-EU levels, and partnerships with private foreign investors which are consistent with the objectives and guidelines of ACP-EC Development cooperation. 4.
Support for investment and private sector development shall integrate actions and initiatives at macro, meso and micro economic levels.
Article 22 Macroeconomic and structural reforms and policies 1.
Article 23 Economic sector development Cooperation shall support sustainable policy and institutional reforms and the investments necessary for equitable access to economic activities and productive resources, particularly: (a) the development of training systems that help increase productivity in both the formal and the informal sectors; (b) capital, credit, land, especially as regards property rights and use; (c) development of rural strategies aimed at establishing a framework for participatory decentralised planning, resource allocation and management; (d) agricultural production strategies, national and regional food security policies, sustainable development of water resources and fisheries as well as marine resources within the economic exclusive zones of the ACP States.
Article 24 Tourism Cooperation will aim at the sustainable development of the tourism industry in ACP countries and sub-regions, recognising its increasing importance to the growth of the services sector in ACP countries and to the expansion of their global trade, its ability to stimulate other sectors of economic activity, and the role it can play in poverty eradication.
Cooperation shall also support capacity-building in social areas such as programmes for training in the design of social policies and modern methods for managing social projects and programmes; policies conducive to technological innovation and research; building local expertise and promoting partnerships; and round-table discussions at national and/or regional level. 3.
Article 26 Youth issues Cooperation shall also support the establishment of a coherent and comprehensive policy for realising the potential of youth so that they are better integrated into society to achieve their full potential.
Article 27 Cultural development Cooperation in the area of culture shall aim at: (a) integrating the cultural dimension at all levels of development cooperation; (b) recognising, preserving and promoting cultural values and identities to enable inter-cultural dialogue; (c) recognising, preserving and promoting the value of cultural heritage; supporting the development of capacity in this sector; and (d) developing cultural industries and enhancing market access opportunities for cultural goods and services.
SECTION 3 Regional cooperation and integration Article 28 General approach Cooperation shall provide effective assistance to achieve the objectives and priorities which the ACP States have set themselves in the context of regional and sub-regional cooperation and integration, including inter-regional and intra-ACP cooperation.
Article 29 Regional economic integration Cooperation shall, in the area of regional economic integration, support: (a) developing and strengthening the capacities of: (i) regional integration institutions and organisations set up by the ACP States to promote regional cooperation and integration, and (ii) national governments and parliaments in matters of regional integration; (b) fostering participation of Least Developed Countries (LDC) ACP States in the establishment of regional markets and sharing the benefits therefrom; (c) implementation of sectoral reform policies at regional level; (d) liberalisation of trade and payments; (e) promoting cross-border investments both foreign and domestic, and other regional or sub-regional economic integration initiatives; and (f) taking account of the effects of net transitional costs of regional integration on budget revenue and balance of payments.
Cooperation shall help promote and develop a regional political dialogue in areas of conflict prevention and resolution; human rights and democratisation; exchange, networking, and promotion of mobility between the different actors of development, in particular in civil society.
SECTION 4 Thematic and cross-cutting issues Article 31 Gender issues Cooperation shall help strengthen policies and programmes that improve, ensure and broaden the equal participation of men and women in all spheres of political, economic, social and cultural life.
Article 32 Environment and natural resources 1.
The Parties shall work together in the fight against bribery and corruption in all their societies. 3.
TITLE II ECONOMIC AND TRADE COOPERATION CHAPTER 1 Objectives and principles Article 34 Objectives 1.
The ultimate objective of economic and trade cooperation is to enable the ACP States to play a full part in international trade.
In this context, particular regard shall be had to the need for the ACP States to participate actively in multilateral trade negotiations.
Article 35 Principles 1.
In this context, particular regard shall be had to trade development measures as a means of enhancing ACP States' competitiveness.
Appropriate weight shall therefore be given to trade development within the ACP States' development strategies, which the Community shall support. 2.
Economic and trade cooperation shall build on regional integration initiatives of ACP States, bearing in mind that regional integration is a key instrument for the integration of ACP countries into the world economy. 3.
In this context, the Parties reaffirm their attachment to ensuring special and differential treatment for all ACP countries and to maintaining special treatment for ACP LDCs and to taking due account of the vulnerability of small, landlocked and island countries.
CHAPTER 2 New trading arrangements Article 36 Modalities 1.
In order to facilitate the transition to the new trading arrangements, the non-reciprocal trade preferences applied under the Fourth ACP-EC Convention shall be maintained during the preparatory period for all ACP countries, under the conditions defined in Annex V to this Agreement. 4.
In this context, the Parties reaffirm the importance of the commodity protocols, attached to Annex V of this Agreement.
They agree on the need to review them in the context of the new trading arrangements, in particular as regards their compatibility with WTO rules, with a view to safeguarding the benefits derived therefrom, bearing in mind the special legal status of the Sugar Protocol.
Article 37 Procedures 1.
Formal negotiations of the new trading arrangements shall start in September 2002 and the new trading arrangements shall enter into force by 1 January 2008, unless earlier dates are agreed between the Parties. 2.
The preparatory period shall also be used for capacity-building in the public and private sectors of ACP countries, including measures to enhance competitiveness, for strengthening of regional organisations and for support to regional trade integration initiatives, where appropriate with assistance to budgetary adjustment and fiscal reform, as well as for infrastructure upgrading and development, and for investment promotion. 4.
Negotiations of the economic partnership agreements will be undertaken with ACP countries which consider themselves in a position to do so, at the level they consider appropriate and in accordance with the procedures agreed by the ACP Group, taking into account regional integration process within the ACP. 6.
In 2004, the Community will assess the situation of the non-LDC which, after consultations with the Community decide that they are not in a position to enter into economic partnership agreements and will examine all alternative possibilities, in order to provide these countries with a new framework for trade which is equivalent to their existing situation and in conformity with WTO rules. 7.
Negotiations will therefore be as flexible as possible in establishing the duration of a sufficient transitional period, the final product coverage, taking into account sensitive sectors, and the degree of asymmetry in terms of timetable for tariff dismantlement, while remaining in conformity with WTO rules then prevailing. 8.
Article 38 Joint Ministerial Trade Committee 1.
A Joint ACP-EC Ministerial Trade Committee shall be established. 2.
The Ministerial Trade Committee shall pay special attention to current multilateral trade negotiations and shall examine the impact of the wider liberalisation initiatives on ACP-EC trade and the development of ACP economies.
The Ministerial Trade Committee shall meet at least once a year.
Its rules of procedure shall be laid down by the Council of Ministers.
CHAPTER 3 Cooperation in the international fora Article 39 General Provisions 1.
They agree to cooperate closely in identifying and furthering their common interests in international economic and trade cooperation in particular in the WTO, including participation in setting and conducting the agenda in future multilateral trade negotiations.
In this context, particular attention shall be paid to improve access to the Community and other markets for products and services originating in the ACP countries. 3.
CHAPTER 4 Trade in services Article 41 General Provisions 1.
The Parties underline the growing importance of services in international trade and their major contribution to economic and social development. 2.
They reaffirm their respective commitments under the General Agreement on Trade in Services (GATS), and underline the need for special and differential treatment to ACP suppliers of services; 3.
In the framework of the negotiations for progressive liberalisation in trade and services, as provided for in Article XIX of GATS, the Community undertakes to give sympathetic consideration to the ACP States' priorities for improvement in the EC schedule, with a view to meeting their specific interests. 4.
The Parties further agree on the objective of extending under the economic partnership agreements, and after they have acquired some experience in applying the Most Favoured Nation (MFN) treatment under GATS, their partnership to encompass the liberalisation of services in accordance with the provisions of GATS and particularly those relating to the participation of developing countries in liberalisation agreements. 5.
The Parties acknowledge the importance of cost-effective and efficient maritime transport services in a safe and clean marine environment as the main mode of transportation facilitating international trade and thereby constituting one of the forces behind economic development and the development of trade. 2.
They undertake to promote the liberalisation of maritime transport and to this end apply effectively the principle of unrestricted access to the international maritime transport market on a non-discriminatory and commercial basis. 3.
Article 43 Information and Communication Technologies, and Information Society 1.
CHAPTER 5 Trade-related areas Article 44 General Provisions 1.
The Parties acknowledge the growing importance of new areas related to trade in facilitating progressive integration of the ACP States into the world economy.
The Community shall support the ACP States' efforts, in accordance with the provisions set out in this Agreement and the development strategies agreed between the Parties to strengthen their capacity to handle all areas related to trade, including, where necessary, improving and supporting the institutional framework.
To ensure the elimination of distortions to sound competition and with due consideration to the different levels of development and economic needs of each ACP country, they undertake to implement national or regional rules and policies including the control and under certain conditions the prohibition of agreements between undertakings, decisions by associations of undertakings and concerted practices between undertakings which have as their object or effect the prevention, restriction or distortion of competition.
The Parties further agree to prohibit the abuse by one or more undertakings of a dominant position in the common market of the Community or in the territory of ACP States. 3.
The Parties also agree to reinforce cooperation in this area with a view to formulating and supporting effective competition policies with the appropriate national competition agencies that progressively ensure the efficient enforcement of the competition rules by both private and state enterprises.
Cooperation in this area shall, in particular, include assistance in the drafting of an appropriate legal framework and its administrative enforcement with particular reference to the special situation of the least developed countries.
Article 46 Protection of Intellectual Property Rights 1.
They underline the importance, in this context, of adherence to the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) to the WTO Agreement and the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD). 3.
They also agree on the need to accede to all relevant international conventions on intellectual, industrial and commercial property as referred to in Part I of the TRIPS Agreement, in line with their level of development. 4.
For the purpose of this Agreement, intellectual property includes in particular copyright, including the copyright on computer programmes, and neighbouring rights, including artistic designs, and industrial property which includes utility models, patents including patents for bio-technological inventions and plant varieties or other effective sui generis systems, industrial designs, geographical indications including appellations of origin, trademarks for goods or services, topographies of integrated circuits as well as the legal protection of data bases and the protection against unfair competition as referred to in Article 10a of the Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property and protection of undisclosed confidential information on know how. 6.
Article 47 Standardisation and Certification 1.
In this context, they reaffirm their commitment under the Agreement on Technical Barriers to trade, annexed to the WTO Agreement (TBT Agreement). 2.
Cooperation in standardisation and certification shall aim at promoting compatible systems between the Parties and in particular include: - measures, in accordance with the TBT Agreement, to promote greater use of international technical regulations, standards and conformity assessment procedures, including sector specific measures, in accordance with the level of economic development of ACP countries, - cooperation in the area of quality management and assurance in selected sectors of importance to the ACP States, - support for capacity building initiatives in the ACP countries in the fields of conformity assessment, metrology and standardisation, - developing functioning links between ACP and European standardisation, conformity assessment and certification institutions. 3.
Article 48 Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures 1.
They also agree on prior consultation and coordination within the Codex Alimentarius, the International Office of Epizootics and the International Plant Protection Convention, with a view to furthering their common interests. 3.
Article 49 Trade and Environment 1.
The Parties reaffirm their commitment to promoting the development of international trade in such a way as to ensure sustainable and sound management of the environment, in accordance with the international conventions and undertakings in this area and with due regard to their respective level of development.
They agree that the special needs and requirements of ACP States should be taken into account in the design and implementation of environment measures. 2.
Article 50 Trade and Labour Standards 1.
They agree to enhance cooperation in this area, in particular in the following fields: - exchange of information on the respective legislation and work regulation; - the formulation of national labour legislation and strengthening of existing legislation; - educational and awareness-raising programmes; - enforcement of adherence to national legislation and work regulation. 3.
Article 51 Consumer Policy and Protection of Consumer Health 1.
Without prejudice to the provisions of Article 31 of Annex IV, the Most Favoured Nation treatment granted in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, or any arrangement adopted under this Agreement, does not apply to tax advantages which the Parties are providing or may provide in the future on the basis of agreements to avoid double taxation or other tax arrangements, or domestic fiscal legislation. 2.
Nothing in this Agreement, or in any arrangements adopted under this Agreement, shall be construed to prevent the Parties from distinguishing, in the application of the relevant provisions of their fiscal legislation, between taxpayers who are not in the same situation, in particular with regard to their place of residence, or with regard to the place where their capital is invested.
CHAPTER 6 Cooperation in other areas Article 53 Fishery Agreements 1.
Specific agreements may be concluded with those ACP States which so request in the context of their food security policies. 4.
The specific agreements referred to in paragraph 3 shall not place in jeopardy production and trade flows in ACP regions.
Article 56 Principles 1.
Their respective geographical, social and cultural characteristics, as well as their specific potential, shall be taken into account.
In addition, cooperation shall: (a) promote local ownership at all levels of the development process; (b) reflect a partnership based on mutual rights and obligations; (c) emphasise the importance of predictability and security in resource flows, granted on highly concessional terms and on a continuous basis; (d) be flexible and appropriate to the situation in each ACP State as well as adapted to the specific nature of the project or programme concerned; and (e) ensure efficiency, coordination and consistency. 2.
Article 57 Guidelines 1.
Without prejudice to the provisions above, eligible non-State actors may also be responsible for proposing and implementing programmes and projects in areas concerning them. 4.
The ACP States and the Community shall be jointly responsible for: (a) establishing, within the joint institutions, the guidelines for development finance cooperation; (b) adopting the indicative programmes; (c) appraising projects and programmes; (d) ensuring equality of conditions for participation in invitations to tender and contracts; (e) monitoring and evaluating the effects and results of projects and programmes; and (f) ensuring the proper, prompt and efficient execution of projects and programmes. 5.
Subject to the agreement of the ACP State or ACP States concerned, the following shall also be eligible for financial support: (a) national and/or regional public or semi-public agencies, departments or local authorities of the ACP States and, in particular, their financial institutions and development banks; (b) companies, firms and other private organisations and private operators of ACP States; (c) enterprises of a Community Member State to enable them, in addition to their own contribution, to undertake productive projects in the territory of an ACP State; (d) ACP or Community financial intermediaries providing, promoting and financing private investments in ACP States; and (e) agents of decentralised cooperation and other non-State actors from the ACP States and from the Community.
CHAPTER 2 Scope and nature of financing Article 59 Within the framework of the priorities established by the ACP State or States concerned at both national and regional levels, support may be given to projects, programmes and other forms of operations contributing to the objectives set out in this Agreement.
Article 60 Scope of financing The scope of financing may include, inter alia, depending on the needs and the types of operation considered most appropriate, support to: (a) measures which contribute to attenuate the debt burden and balance of payments problems of the ACP countries; (b) macroeconomic and structural reforms and policies; (c) mitigation of adverse effects of instability in export earnings; (d) sectoral policies and reforms; (e) institutional development and capacity building; (f) technical cooperation programmes; and (g) humanitarian and emergency assistance including assistance to refugees and displaced persons, short-term rehabilitation measures and disaster preparedness.
Article 61 Nature of financing 1.
The nature of financing shall, inter alia, include: (a) projects and programmes; (b) credit lines, guarantee schemes and equity participation; (c) budgetary support, either directly, for the ACP States whose currencies are convertible and freely transferable, or indirectly, from counterparts funds generated by the various Community instruments; (d) the human and material resources necessary for effective administration and supervision of projects and programmes; (e) sectoral and general import support programmes which may take the form of: (i) sectoral import programmes through direct procurement including financing of inputs in the productive system and supplies to improve social services; (ii) sectoral import programmes in the form of foreign exchange released in instalments for financing sectoral imports; and (iii) general import programmes in the form of foreign exchange released in instalments for financing general imports covering a wide range of products. 2.
Direct budgetary assistance in support of macroeconomic or sectoral reforms shall be granted where: (a) public expenditure management is sufficiently transparent, accountable and effective; (b) well defined macroeconomic or sectoral policies established by the country itself and agreed to by its main donors are in place; and (c) public procurement is open and transparent. 3.
TITLE II FINANCIAL COOPERATION CHAPTER 1 Financial resources Article 62 Overall amount 1.
For the purposes set out in this Agreement, the overall amount of the Community's financial assistance and the detailed terms and conditions of financing are provided for in the Annexes to this Agreement. 2.
Article 63 Methods of financing The methods of financing for each project or programme shall be determined jointly by the ACP State or States concerned and the Community by reference to: (a) the level of development, the geographical situation and economic and financial circumstances of these States; (b) the nature of the project or programme, its economic and financial return as well as its social and cultural impact; and (c) in the case of loans, factors guaranteeing their servicing.
Financial assistance may be made available to or through the ACP States concerned or, subject to the provisions of this Agreement through eligible financial institutions or directly to any other eligible beneficiary.
Where financial assistance is granted to the final recipient through an intermediary or directly to the final beneficiary in the private sector: (a) the terms and conditions on which the assistance may be made available by the intermediary to the final recipient or directly to the final beneficiary in the private sector shall be laid down in the financing agreement or loan contract; and (b) any financial benefit accruing to the intermediary from the on-lending transaction or resulting from direct lending operations to the final beneficiary in the private sector, shall be used for development purposes on the conditions laid down in the financing agreement or the loan contract, after taking into account administrative costs, exchange and financial risks and the cost of technical assistance given to the final recipient. 2.
CHAPTER 2 Debt and structural adjustment support Article 66 Support for debt relief 1.
In addition, on a case by case basis, the use of resources which have not been committed in the framework of past indicative programmes shall be accelerated through the quick-disbursing instruments provided for in this Agreement.
At the request of an ACP State, the Community may grant: (a) assistance in studying and finding practical solutions to indebtedness including domestic debt, debt-servicing difficulties and balance of payments problems; (b) training in debt management and international financial negotiations as well as support for training workshops, courses and seminars in these fields; and (c) assistance to develop flexible techniques and instruments of debt management. 3.
Article 67 Structural adjustment support 1.
ACP States undertaking or contemplating reform at the macroeconomic or sectoral level shall be eligible for structural adjustment assistance, giving consideration to the regional context, their effectiveness and the likely impact on the economic, social and political dimension of development and on economic and social hardships being experienced. 4.
Structural adjustment support shall be mobilised in a flexible manner and in the form of sectoral and general import programmes or budgetary support. 6.
CHAPTER 3 Support in cases of short-term fluctuations in export earnings Article 68 1.
A system of additional support in order to mitigate the adverse effects of any instability in export earnings, including in the agricultural and mining sectors, is therefore set up within the financial envelope for support to long-term development. 2.
The purpose of support in cases of short-term fluctuations in export earnings is to safeguard macroeconomic and sectoral reforms and policies that are at risk as a result of a drop in revenue and remedy the adverse effects of instability of export earnings in particular from agricultural and mining products. 3.
The extreme dependence of the ACP States' economies on exports, in particular from the agricultural and mining sectors, shall be taken into account in the allocation of resources in the year of application.
In this context, the least developed, landlocked and island ACP States shall receive more favourable treatment. 4.
The additional resources shall be provided in accordance with the specific modalities of the support mechanism as set out in Annex II on Terms and Conditions of Financing. 5.
CHAPTER 4 Support for sectoral policies Article 69 1.
In this context, cooperation shall support: (a) micro-projects at local level which have an economic and social impact on the life of the people, meet a demonstrated and observed priority need, and shall be undertaken at the initiative and with the active participation of the local community which shall benefit therefrom; and (b) decentralised cooperation, in particular where such operations combine efforts and resources of decentralised agents from the ACP States and their counterparts from the Community.
Microprojects and decentralised cooperation operations may be supported from the financial resources of the Agreement.
Contributions for the financing of micro-projects and decentralised cooperation shall be made by the Fund, in which case the contribution shall not normally exceed three-quarters of the total cost of each project and may not exceed the limit set in the indicative programme.
The remaining balance shall be provided: (a) by the local community concerned in case of micro-projects (either in kind or in the form of services or cash and adapted to its capacity to contribute); (b) by the agents of decentralised cooperation, provided that the financial, technical, material and other resources brought in by such agents shall not normally be less than 25 % of the estimated cost of the project/programme; and (c) exceptionally by the ACP State concerned, either in the form of a financial contribution or through the use of public equipment or the supply of services. 3.
The procedures applicable to projects and programmes financed within the framework of microprojects or decentralised cooperation shall be those laid down in the Agreement, in particular those referred to in multi-annual programmes.
CHAPTER 6 Humanitarian and emergency assistance Article 72 1.
Humanitarian and emergency assistance shall be accorded to the population in ACP States faced with serious economic and social difficulties of an exceptional nature resulting from natural disasters, man-made crises such as wars and other conflicts or extraordinary circumstances having comparable effects.
Humanitarian and emergency assistance operations shall be undertaken either at the request of the ACP country affected by the crisis situation, the Commission, international organisations or local or international non-State organisations.
CHAPTER 7 Investment and private sector development support Article 74 Cooperation shall, through financial and technical assistance, support the policies and strategies for investment and private sector development as set out in this Agreement.
Article 75 Investment promotion The ACP States, the Community and its Member States, within the scope of their respective competencies, recognising the importance of private investment in the promotion of their development cooperation and acknowledging the need to take steps to promote such investment, shall: (a) implement measures to encourage participation in their development efforts by private investors who comply with the objectives and priorities of ACP-EC development cooperation and with the appropriate laws and regulations of their respective States; (b) take measures and actions which help to create and maintain a predictable and secure investment climate as well as enter into negotiations on agreements which will improve such climate; (c) encourage the EU private sector to invest and to provide specific assistance to its counterparts in the ACP countries under mutual business cooperation and partnerships; (d) facilitate partnerships and joint ventures by encouraging co-financing; (e) sponsor sectoral investment fora to promote partnerships and external investment; (f) support efforts of the ACP States to attract financing, with particular emphasis on private financing, for infrastructure investments and revenue generating infrastructure critical for the private sector; (g) support capacity building for domestic investment promotion agencies and institutions involved in promoting and facilitating foreign investment; (h) disseminate information on investment opportunities and business operating conditions in the ACP States; and (i) promote national, regional and ACP-EU private sector business dialogue, cooperation and partnerships, in particular through an ACP-EU private sector business forum.
Support for operations of an ACP-EU private sector business forum shall be provided in pursuit of the following objectives: (i) to facilitate dialogue within the ACP/EU private sector and between the ACP/EU private sector and the bodies established under the Agreement; (ii) to analyse and periodically provide the relevant bodies with information on the whole range of issues concerning relations between the ACP and EU private sectors in the context of the Agreement or, more generally, of economic relations between the Community and the ACP countries; and (iii) to analyse and provide the relevant bodies with information on specific problems of a sectoral nature relating to, inter alia, branches of production or types of products at regional or sub-regional level.
Article 76 Investment finance and support 1.
Loans from the Bank's own resources shall be granted in accordance with its statute and with the terms and conditions laid down in Annex II to this Agreement.
Article 77 Investment guarantees 1.
Both partial risk and partial credit guarantee shall be available; and (c) national and regional guarantee funds, involving, in particular, domestic financial institutions or investors for encouraging the development of the financial sector. 3.
Article 78 Investment protection 1.
In order to encourage European investment in development projects of special importance to, and promoted by the ACP States, the Community and the Member States, on the one hand and the ACP States on the other, may also conclude agreements relating to specific projects of mutual interest where the Community and European enterprises contribute towards their financing. 3.
TITLE III TECHNICAL COOPERATION Article 79 1.
Technical assistance shall: (a) be demand-driven and thus made available only at the request of the ACP State or States concerned, and adapted to recipient needs; (b) complement and support ACP efforts to identify their own requirements; (c) be monitored and followed up to guarantee effectiveness; (d) encourage the participation of ACP experts, consultancy firms and educational and research institutions in contracts financed from the Fund and identify ways of employing qualified national and regional personnel on Fund projects; (e) encourage the secondment of ACP national cadres as consultants to an institution in their own country, or a neighbouring country, or to a regional organisation; (f) aim at developing knowledge of national and regional manpower constraints and potential and establish a register of ACP experts, consultants and consultancy firms suitable for employment on projects and programmes financed from the Fund; (g) support intra-ACP technical assistance in order to promote the exchange between the ACP States of technical assistance, management and professional expertise; (h) develop action programmes for long-term institution building and staff development as an integral part of project and programme planning, account being taken of the necessary financial requirements; (i) support arrangements to enhance the capacity of the ACP States to build up their own expertise; and (j) give special attention to the development of the ACP States' capacities in project planning, implementation and evaluation, as well budget management. 3.
Technical cooperation may be either of a specific or a general nature.
Article 80 With a view to reversing the brain drain from the ACP States, the Community shall assist ACP States which so request to facilitate the return of qualified ACP nationals resident in developed countries through appropriate re-installation incentives.
TITLE IV PROCEDURES AND MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS Article 81 Procedures Management procedures shall be transparent, easy to apply and shall enable the decentralisation of tasks and responsibilities to the field.
The implementation of ACP-EU development cooperation shall be open to non-State actors in areas that concern them.
Article 82 Executing agents For the implementation of financial and technical cooperation under this Agreement, executing agents are designated.
Article 83 ACP-EC Development Finance Cooperation Committee 1.
The ACP-EC Committee shall, inter alia: (a) ensure the overall achievement of the objectives and principles of development finance cooperation and establish general guidelines for their effective and timely implementation; (b) examine the problems arising from the implementation of development cooperation activities and propose appropriate measures; (c) review the annexes to the Agreement to ensure their continued relevance and recommend any appropriate amendments to the Council of Ministers for approval; and (d) examine the operations deployed within the framework of the Agreement to attain the objectives of promoting private sector development and investment and the operations of the Investment Facility. 3.
These experts shall make recommendations to the Committee on possible ways of removing such difficulties and bottlenecks.
PART 5 GENERAL PROVISIONS FOR THE LEAST-DEVELOPED, LANDLOCKED AND ISLAND ACP STATES (LDLICS) CHAPTER 1 General provisions Article 84 1.
To enable LDLICs to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by the Agreement so as to step up their respective rates of development, cooperation shall ensure special treatment for the least developed ACP countries and take due account of the vulnerability of landlocked and island ACP countries.
It shall also take into consideration the needs of countries in post-conflict situations. 2.
CHAPTER 2 Least-developed ACP States Article 85 1.
The list of least-developed countries is given in Annex VI.
It may be amended by a decision of the Council of Ministers where: (a) a third State in a comparable situation accedes to this Agreement; and (b) the economic situation of an ACP State changes considerably and durably to the extent that it needs to be included in the least-developed category or its inclusion in that category is no longer justified.
Article 86 The provisions adopted in respect of the least-developed ACP States are contained in the following Articles: 2, 29, 32, 35, 37, 56, 68, 84, 85.
CHAPTER 3 Landlocked ACP States Article 87 1.
Specific provisions and measures shall be established to support landlocked ACP States in their efforts to overcome the geographical difficulties and other obstacles hampering their development so as to enable them to step up their respective rates of development. 2.
The list of landlocked ACP States is given in Annex VI.
It may be amended by decision of the Council of Ministers when a third State in a comparable situation accedes to the Agreement.
Article 88 The provisions adopted in respect of the landlocked ACP States are contained in the following Articles: 2, 32, 35, 56, 68, 84, 87.
CHAPTER 4 Island ACP States Article 89 1.
The list of island ACP States is given in Annex VI.
It may be amended by decision of the Council of Ministers when a third State in a comparable situation accedes to the Agreement.
Article 90 The provisions adopted in respect of the island ACP States are contained in the following Articles: 2, 32, 35, 56, 68, 84, 89.
Article 92 Scope of territorial application Subject to the special provisions regarding the relations between the ACP States and the French overseas departments provided for therein, this Agreement shall apply, on the one hand, to the territories in which the Treaty establishing the European Community is applied and under the conditions laid down in that Treaty and, on the other hand, to the territories of the ACP States.
Article 93 Ratification and entry into force 1.
This Agreement shall be ratified or approved by the signatory Parties in accordance with their respective constitutional rules and procedures. 2.
The instruments of ratification or approval of this Agreement shall be deposited in the case of the ACP States, with the General Secretariat of the Council of the European Union and in the case of the Community and the Member States, with the General Secretariat of the ACP States.
These States shall recognise the validity of any measure taken to implement the Agreement after the date of its entry into force. 5.
The rules of procedure of the joint institutions set up under this Agreement shall lay down the conditions under which the representatives of signatory States referred to in paragraph 4 may attend those institutions as observers. 6.
The Council of Ministers may decide to accord special support to ACP States party to previous ACP-EC Conventions which, in the absence of normally established government institutions, have not been able to sign or ratify this Agreement.
This support may concern institution building and economic and social development activities, taking particular account of the needs of the most vulnerable sections of the population.
In this context, such countries will be able to draw on the funds provided for in Part 4 of this Agreement for financial and technical cooperation.
By way of derogation from paragraph 4, the countries concerned which are signatories to the Agreement may complete the ratification procedures within twelve months of the restoration of government institutions.
Article 94 Accession 1.
The Council of Ministers may lay down any amending measures that might be necessary.
The State concerned shall enjoy the same rights and be subject to the same obligations as the ACP States.
The Council of Ministers may lay down the conditions and specific arrangements for the accession of an individual State in a special protocol that shall form an integral part of the Agreement. 2.
The Council of Ministers shall be advised of any request made by a third State to become a member of an economic grouping of ACP States. 3.
The Council of Ministers shall be advised of any request made by a third State to become a member of the European Union.
The Council of Ministers may decide on any transitional or amending measures that might be necessary.
Article 95 Duration of the agreement and revision clause 1.
This Agreement is hereby concluded for a period of twenty years, commencing on 1 March 2000. 2.
Financial protocols are defined for each five-year period. 3.
The Community and the Member States, on the one hand, and the ACP States, on the other, shall notify the other Party not later than 12 months before the expiry of each five-year period of any review of the provisions they desire to make with a view to a possible amendment of the Agreement.
Article 93 shall also apply to the amendments made.
The Council of Ministers shall adopt any transitional measures that may be required in respect of the amended provisions until they come into force. 4.
The Council of Ministers shall adopt any transitional measures that may be required until the new Agreement comes into force.
Article 96 Essential elements: consultation procedure and appropriate measures as regards human rights, democratic principles and the rule of law 1.
The consultations shall begin no later than 15 days after the invitation and shall continue for a period established by mutual agreement, depending on the nature and gravity of the violation.
In any case, the consultations shall last no longer than 60 days.
If measures are taken in cases of special urgency, they shall be immediately notified to the other Party and the Council of Ministers.
At the request of the Party concerned, consultations may then be called in order to examine the situation thoroughly and, if possible, find solutions.
Article 97 Consultation procedure and appropriate measures as regards corruption 1.
Article 98 Dispute settlement 1.
Any dispute arising from the interpretation or application of this Agreement between one or more Member States or the Community, on the one hand, and one or more ACP States on the other, shall be submitted to the Council of Ministers.
Article 99 Denunciation clause This Agreement may be denounced by the Community and its Member States in respect of each ACP State and by each ACP State in respect of the Community and its Member States, upon six months' notice.
Article 100 Status of the texts The Protocols and Annexes attached to this Agreement shall form an integral part thereof.
Annexes II, III, IV and VI may be revised, reviewed and/or amended by the Council of Ministers on the basis of a recommendation from the ACP-EC Development Finance Cooperation Committee.
For Hendes Majestt Danmarks Dronning Fr den Prsidenten der Bundesrepublik Deutschland       Por Su Majestad el Rey de Espaa Pour le Prsident de la Rpublique franaise Thar ceann Uachtarn na hireann For the President of Ireland Per il Presidente della Repubblica italiana Pour Son Altesse Royale le Grand-Duc de Luxembourg Voor Hare Majesteit de Koningin der Nederlanden Fr den Bundesprsidenten der Republik sterreich Pelo Presidente da Repblica Portuguesa Suomen Tasavallan Presidentin puolesta Fr Republiken Finlands President P svenska regeringens vgnar For Her Majesty the Queen of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland Por la Comunidad Europea For Det Europiske Fllesskab Fr die Europische Gemeinschaft     For the European Community Pour la Communaut europenne Per la Comunit europea Voor de Europese Gemeenschap Pela Comunidade Europeia Euroopan yhteisn puolesta P Europeiska gemenskapens vgnar Pour le Prsident de la Rpublique d'Angola For Her Majesty the Queen of Antigua and Barbuda For the Head of State of the Commonwealth of the Bahamas For the Head of State of Barbados For the Government of Belize Pour le Prsident de la Rpublique du Bnin For the President of the Republic of Botswana Pour le Prsident du Burkina Faso Pour le Prsident de la Rpublique du Burundi Pour le Prsident de la Rpublique du Cameroun Pour le Prsident de la Rpublique du Cap-Vert Pour le Prsident de la Rpublique Centrafricaine Pour le Prsident de la Rpublique Fdrale Islamique des Comores Pour le Prsident de la Rpublique dmocratique du Congo Pour le Prsident de la Rpublique du Congo For the Government of the Cook Islands Pour le Prsident de la Rpublique de Cte d'Ivoire Pour le Prsident de la Rpublique de Djibouti For the Government of the Commonwealth of Dominica For the President of the Dominican Republic For the President of the State of Eritrea For the President of the Federal Republic of Ethiopia For the President of the Sovereign Democratic Republic of Fiji Pour le Prsident de la Rpublique gabonaise For the President and Head of State of the Republic of The Gambia For the President of the Republic of Ghana For Her Majesty the Queen of Grenada Pour le Prsident de la Rpublique de Guine Pour le Prsident de la Rpublique de Guine-Bissau Pour le Prsident de la Rpublique de Guine quatoriale For the President of the Republic of Guyana Pour le Prsident de la Rpublique d'Hati For the Head of State of Jamaica For the President of the Republic of Kenya For the President of the Republic of Kiribati For His Majesty the King of the Kingdom of Lesotho For the President of the Republic of Liberia Pour le Prsident de la Rpublique de Madagascar For the President of the Republic of Malawi Pour le Prsident de la Rpublique du Mali For the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands Pour le Prsident de la Rpublique Islamique de Mauritanie For the President of the Republic of Mauritius For the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia Pour le Prsident de la Rpublique du Mozambique For the President of the Republic of Namibia For the Government of the Republic of Nauru Pour le Prsident de la Rpublique du Niger For the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria For the Government of Niue For the Government of the Republic of Palau For Her Majesty the Queen of the Independent State of Papua New Guinea Pour le Prsident de la Rpublique Rwandaise For Her Majesty the Queen of Saint Kitts and Nevis For Her Majesty the Queen of Saint Lucia For Her Majesty the Queen of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines For the Head of State of the Independent State of Samoa Pour le Prsident de la Rpublique dmocratique de So Tom et Prncipe Pour le Prsident de la Rpublique du Sngal Pour le Prsident de la Rpublique des Seychelles For the President of the Republic of Sierra Leone For Her Majesty the Queen of the Solomon Islands For the President of the Republic of South Africa For the President of the Republic of the Sudan For the President of the Republic of Suriname For His Majesty the King of the Kingdom of Swaziland For the President of the United Republic of Tanzania Pour le Prsident de la Rpublique du Tchad Pour le Prsident de la Rpublique togolaise For His Majesty King Taufa'ahau Tupou IV of Tonga For the President of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago For Her Majesty the Queen of Tuvalu For the President of the Republic of Uganda For the Government of the Republic of Vanuatu For the President of the Republic of Zambia For the Government of the Republic of Zimbabwe ANNEXES TO THE AGREEMENT TABLE OF CONTENTS %gt%TABLE%gt% ANNEX I FINANCIAL PROTOCOL 1.
For the purposes set out in this Agreement and for a period of five years commencing 1 March 2000, the overall amount of the Community's financial assistance to the ACP States shall be EUR 15200 million. 2.
The Community's financial assistance shall comprise an amount up to EUR 13500 million from the 9th European Development Fund (EDF). 3.
This envelope shall be used to finance national indicative programmes in accordance with Articles 1 to 5 of Annex IV %quot%Implementation and management procedures%quot% to this Agreement.
These resources shall be granted for the purposes set out in Annex II %quot%Terms and conditions of financing%quot% to this Agreement in accordance with the conditions provided for by its statutes and the relevant provisions of the terms and conditions for investment financing as laid down in the aforementioned Annex.
Any balances remaining from previous EDFs on the date of entry into force of this Financial Protocol, as well as any amounts that shall be decommitted at a later date from ongoing projects under these Funds, shall be transferred to the 9th EDF and shall be used in accordance with the conditions laid down in this Agreement.
The resources of the Facility may be used, inter alia, to: (a) provide risk capital in the form of: (i) equity participation in ACP enterprises, including financial institutions; (ii) quasi-capital assistance to ACP enterprises, including financial institutions; and (iii) guarantees and other credit enhancements which may be used to cover political and other investment-related risks, both for foreign and local investors or lenders. (b) provide ordinary loans. 2.
Ordinary loans may be extended on concessional terms and conditions in the following cases: (a) for infrastructure projects in the Least Developed Countries or in post-conflict countries that are prerequisites for private sector development.
The final interest rate shall, in any case, never be less than 50 % of the reference rate. 8.
The Investment Facility shall operate in all economic sectors and support investments of private and commercially run public sector entities, including revenue generating economic and technological infrastructure critical for the private sector.
The Bank shall: (a) contribute, through the resources it manages, to the economic and industrial development of the ACP States on a national and regional basis; and to this end, finance as a priority productive projects and programmes or other investments aimed at promoting the private sector in all economic sectors; (b) establish close cooperation links with national and regional development banks and with banking and financial institutions of the ACP States and of the EU; and (c) in consultation with the ACP State concerned, adapt the arrangements and procedures for implementing development finance cooperation, as set out in this Agreement, if necessary, to take account of the nature of the projects and programmes and to act in accordance with the objectives of this Agreement, within the framework of the procedures laid down by its statute. 2.
Loans from the Bank's own resources shall be granted under the following terms and conditions: (a) the reference rate of interest shall be the rate applied by the Bank for a loan with the same conditions as to currency, and repayment period on the day of signature of the contract or on the date of disbursement; (b) however: (i) in principle, public sector projects shall be eligible for an interest rate subsidy of 3 %; (ii) private sector projects falling into the categories specified in Article 2 (7)(b) shall be eligible for interest rates subsidies on the same terms as those specified in Article 2(7)(b).
Article 5 Conditions for foreign exchange rate risk In order to minimise the effects of exchange rate fluctuations, the problems of exchange rate risk shall be dealt with in the following way: (a) in the case of equity participation designed to strengthen an enterprise's own funds, the exchange rate risk shall, as a general rule, be borne by the Investment Facility; (b) in the case of risk capital financing for small-and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), the exchange rate risk shall, as a general rule, be shared by the Community, on the one part, and by the other parties involved, on the other.
The ACP-EC Council of Ministers shall, after the signature of this Agreement and on a proposal by the ACP-EC Development Finance Cooperation Committee, decide on the modalities and the amount of resources allocated from the long-term development envelope to attain these objectives.
In order to mitigate the adverse effects of instability of export earnings and safeguard the development programme jeopardised by the drop in revenue, additional financial support may be mobilised from the programmable resources for the country's long-term development on the basis of Articles 9 and 10.
Eligibility for additional resources shall be established by: a) - a 10 % (2 % in the case of least-developed countries) loss of export earnings from goods compared with the arithmetical average of the earnings in the first three years of the first four years preceding the application year; - or - a 10 % (2 % in the case of least-developed countries ) loss of export earnings from the total of agricultural or mineral products compared with the arithmetical average of the earnings in the first three years of the first four years preceding the application year for countries where the agricultural or mineral export revenues represent more than 40 % of total export revenues from goods; and (b) a 10 % worsening in the programmed public deficit programmed for the year in question or forecast for the following year. 2.
They shall be utilised in accordance with programming rules and methods including the specific provisions in Annex IV %quot%Implementation and management procedures%quot%, on the basis of agreements drawn up in advance between the Community and the ACP State concerned in the year following the application.
Article 1 0 Advances The system for allocating additional resources shall provide for advances to cover any delays in obtaining consolidated trade statistics and to ensure that the resources in question can be included in the budget of the year following the application year.
The maximum advance shall be 80 % of the estimated amount of additional resources for the application year.
Article 1 1 The provisions in this Chapter shall be subject to review at the latest after two years of operation and subsequently at the request of either Party..
CHAPTER 4 OTHER PROVISIONS Article 12 Current payments and capital movements 1.
Article 13 Qualification and treatment of business entities As regards arrangements that may be applied in matters of establishment and provision of services, the ACP States, on the one hand, and the Member States, on the other, shall treat nationals and companies or firms of the ACP States and nationals and companies or firms of the Member States respectively on a non-discriminatory basis.
However, if, for a given activity, an ACP State or a Member State is unable to provide such treatment, the ACP State or the Member State, as the case may be, shall not be bound to accord such treatment for that activity to the nationals and companies or firms of the State concerned.
Article 14 Definition of %quot%companies and firms%quot% 1.
When implementing the provisions of Article 78 of this Agreement, the Parties shall take into account the following principles: (a) a Contracting State may request where appropriate, the negotiation of an investment promotion and protection agreement with another Contracting State; (b) the States party to such agreements shall practise no discrimination between Contracting States party to this Agreement or against each other in relation to third countries when opening negotiations for concluding, applying and interpreting bilateral or multilateral investment promotion and protection agreements; (c) the Contracting States shall have the right to request a modification or adaptation of the non-discriminatory treatment referred to above when international obligations or changed circumstances so necessitate; (d) the application of the principles referred to above does not purport to and cannot in practice infringe the sovereignty of any Contracting Party to the Agreement; and (e) the relation between the date of entry into force of any agreement negotiated, provisions for the settlement of disputes and the date of the investments concerned will be set out in the said agreement, account being taken of the provisions set out above.
In this context, cooperation shall help to: (a) strengthen and enhance the role of the Centre for the Development of Enterprise (CDE) so as to provide the ACP private sector with the necessary support in the promotion of private sector development activities; and (b) strengthen and reinforce the role of the Centre for the Development of Agriculture (CTA) in ACP institutional capacity development, particularly information management, in order to improve access to technologies for increasing agricultural productivity, commercialisation, food security and rural development.
The CDE shall aim to assist private ACP enterprises to become more competitive in all sectors of the economy.
The CDE shall also: (a) inform the ACP private sector about the provisions of the Agreement; (b) diffuse information within the local ACP private sector about the product quality and standards required in external markets; and (c) provide information to European companies and private sector organisations on business opportunities and modalities in ACP countries. 4.
The CDE shall extend its support for enterprises through qualified and competent national and/or regional service-providing intermediaries. 5.
The activities of the CDE shall be based on the concept of coordination, complementarity and added value in respect of any private sector development initiatives taken by public or private entities.
The Committee of Ambassadors shall, in accordance with the procedures and criteria determined by it, appoint the members of the bodies of the Centre. 8.
The budget of the Centre shall be financed in accordance with the rules laid down in this Agreement in respect of development finance cooperation.
The Committee of Ambassadors shall, in accordance with the procedures and criteria determined by it, appoint the members of the bodies of the Centre. 6.
The budget of the Centre shall be financed in accordance with the rules laid down in this Agreement in respect of development finance cooperation.
Resource allocation shall be based on needs and performance, as defined in this Agreement.
In addition, account shall be taken of the particular difficulties of post-conflict countries; and (b) performance shall be assessed in an objective and transparent manner on the basis of the following parameters: progress in implementing institutional reforms, country performance in the use of resources, effective implementation of current operations, poverty alleviation or reduction, sustainable development measures and macroeconomic and sectoral policy performance. 2.
The allocated resources shall comprise two elements: (a) an allocation to cover macroeconomic support, sectoral policies, programmes and projects in support of the focal or non focal areas of Community assistance; and (b) an allocation to cover unforeseen needs such as emergency assistance where such support cannot be financed from the EU budget, contributions to internationally agreed debt relief initiatives and support to mitigate adverse effects of instability in export earnings. 3.
Article 4 Preparation and adoption of the indicative programme 1.
The draft indicative programme shall contain: (a) the focal sector, sectors or areas on which support should be concentrated; (b) the most appropriate measures and operations for attaining the objectives and targets in the focal sector, sectors or areas; (c) the resources reserved for projects and programmes outside the focal sector(s) and/or the broad outlines of such activities, as well as an indication of the resources to be deployed for each of these elements; (d) identification of eligible non-State actors and the resources allocated for non-State actors; (e) proposals for regional projects and programmes; and (f) a reserve for insurance against possible claims and to cover cost increases and contingencies. 2.
The Community and the ACP State concerned shall take all necessary measures to ensure that the programming process is completed within the shortest possible time and, save in exceptional circumstances, within twelve months of the signing of the Financial Protocol.
In this context, the preparation of the CSS and the indicative programme must be part of a continuous process leading to the adoption of a single document.
Financial cooperation between the ACP State and the Community shall be sufficiently flexible to ensure that operations are kept constantly in line with the objectives of this Agreement and to take account of any changes occurring in the economic situation, priorities and objectives of the ACP State concerned.
In this context, the National Authorising Officer and the Head of Delegation shall: (a) annually undertake an operational review of the indicative programme; and (b) undertake a mid-term and end-of-term review of the CSS and the indicative programme in the light of current needs and performance. 2.
The annual operational review of the indicative programme shall consist of a joint assessment of the implementation of the programme and take into account the results of relevant activities of monitoring and evaluation.
This review shall be conducted locally and shall be finalised between the National Authorising Officer and the Head of Delegation within a period of 60 days.
The National Authorising Officer and the Head of Delegation shall submit the report on the conclusion of the annual review to the Development Finance Cooperation Committee, within 30 days of the completion of the operational review.
The Committee shall examine the report in accordance with its responsibilities and powers under the Agreement. 6.
The funding to enable participation of these territories shall be additional to funds allocated to the ACP States under the Agreement.
The programming shall be a result of an exchange of views between the Commission and the duly mandated regional organisation(s) concerned, and in the absence of such a mandate, the National Authorising Officers of the countries in that region.
Article 9 Resource allocation At the beginning of the period covered by the Financial Protocol, each region shall receive from the Community an indication of the volume of resources from which it may benefit during a five-year period.
In particular, the draft programme shall specify: (a) the focal sectors and themes of Community aid; (b) the most appropriate measures and operations to achieve the objectives set for those sectors and themes; and (c) the projects and programmes enabling those objectives to be attained, insofar as they have been clearly identified as well as an indication of the resources to be deployed for each of these elements and a timetable for their implementation. 2.
Article 12 Intra-ACP cooperation At the beginning of the period covered by the Financial Protocol, the Community shall indicate to the ACP Council of Ministers the part of the funds earmarked for regional operations that shall be set aside for operations that benefit many or all ACP States.
Requests for intra-ACP programmes shall be submitted by: (a) at least 3 mandated regional bodies or organisations belonging to different geographic regions, or the National Authorising Officers of such regions; or (b) the ACP Council of Ministers, or, by specific delegation, the ACP Committee of Ambassadors; or (c) international organisations carrying out operations that contribute to the objectives of regional cooperation and integration, subject to prior approval by the ACP Committee of Ambassadors.
Regional programmes shall be implemented by the requesting body or any other duly authorised institution or body. 2.
In the absence of a duly authorised implementing body, and without prejudice to ad hoc projects and programmes managed by the ACP Secretariat, the Commission shall be responsible for the implementation of intra-ACP operations. 3.
CHAPTER 3 PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION Article 15 Project identification, preparation and appraisal 1.
It shall also take into account the specific characteristics and constraints of each ACP State.
Article 16 Financing proposal and decision 1.
The financing proposal shall contain an advance timetable for the technical and financial implementation of the project or programme, including multi-annual programmes and global allocations for operations of a small financial scale, and shall deal with the duration of the different phases of implementation.
The financing proposal shall: (a) take into account the comments of the ACP State or States concerned; and (b) be forwarded simultaneously to the ACP State or States concerned and the Community. 3.
The letter from the Chief Authorising Officer to the National Authorising Officer notifying such decision shall constitute the financing agreement; and (b) within the framework of multi-annual programmes thus adopted, the National Authorising Officer or, when the case arises, the agent of decentralised cooperation which has been delegated functions for this purpose or, in appropriate cases, other eligible beneficiaries shall implement each individual action in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement and the terms of the financing agreement referred to above.
The financing agreement shall be drawn up between the Commission and the ACP State or States concerned within 60 days of the decision of the Community's decision-making body.
The agreement shall: (a) specify, in particular the details of the Fund's financial commitment and the financing arrangements and terms, the general and specific provisions relating to the project or programme concerned and shall also incorporate the advance timetable for the technical implementation of the project or programme contained in the financing proposal; and (b) make adequate provision for appropriations to cover cost increases and contingencies. 3.
Article 21 Participation on equal terms The ACP States and the Commission shall take the necessary measures to ensure the widest possible participation on equal terms in invitations to tender for works, supplies and services contracts, including, as appropriate, measures to: (a) ensure publication of invitations to tender in the Official Journal of the European Communities, the Internet, the Official Journals of all the ACP States and any other appropriate information media; (b) eliminate discriminatory practices or technical specifications which might stand in the way of widespread participation on equal terms; (c) encourage cooperation between the companies and firms of the Member States and of the ACP States; (d) ensure that all the awarding criteria are specified in the tender dossier; and (e) ensure that the tender selected conforms to the requirements of the tender dossier and meets the awarding criteria stated therein.
Article 22 Derogation 1.
Participation by third countries in contracts financed by the Community may also be authorised: (a) where the Community participates in the financing of regional or inter-regional schemes involving such countries; (b) in the case of co-financing projects and programmes; and (c) in the case of emergency assistance. 3.
Article 23 Competition 1.
To simplify and streamline the general rules and regulations for competition and preferences for EDF financed operations, contracts shall be awarded through open and restricted procedures as well as framework contract, direct agreement contracts and direct labour as follows: (a) open international invitation to tender through or after the publication of a procurement notice in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement; (b) open local invitation to tender where the procurement notice is published exclusively in the beneficiary ACP State; (c) restricted international invitation to tender where the Contracting Authority invites a limited number of candidates to take part in the call for tender after the publication of a pre-information notice; (d) direct agreement contracts which involve simplified procedure where the publication of the procurement notice is dispensed with and the Contracting Authority invites a limited number of service providers to present their offers; and (e) direct labour agreement where contracts are performed through public or semi-public agencies and departments of the beneficiary States concerned. 2.
For works, supply and service contracts with a value of EUR 5000 or less, these can be awarded directly without competition. 4.
In case of direct labour operations, projects and programmes shall be implemented through public or semi-public agencies or departments of the State or States concerned or by the person responsible for executing the operation. 2.
Article 27 Award of contracts 1.
Pending the adoption of these procedures, the current EDF rules as contained in the current general regulations and general conditions of contracts shall apply.
Article 29 General conditions for contracts Performance of works, supply and service contracts financed from the resources of the Fund shall be governed by: (a) the general conditions applicable to contracts financed by the Fund which shall be adopted by decision of the Council of Ministers at the first meeting following the signing of this Agreement, upon the recommendation of the ACP-EC Development Finance Cooperation Committee; or (b) in the case of co-financed projects and programmes, or where a derogation to third parties has been granted or in accelerated procedures or in other appropriate cases, such other general conditions as may be agreed by the ACP State concerned and the Community, i.e.: (i) the general conditions for contracts prescribed by the national legislation of the ACP State concerned or its established practices regarding international contracts; or (ii) any other international general conditions for contracts.
Article 30 Settlement of disputes Any dispute arising between the authorities of an ACP State and a contractor, supplier or provider of services during the performance of a contract financed by the Fund shall: (a) in the case of a national contract, be settled in accordance with the national legislation of the ACP State concerned; and (b) in the case of a transnational contract be settled either: (i) if the Parties to the contract so agree, in accordance with the national legislation of the ACP State concerned or its established international practices; or (ii) by arbitration in accordance with the procedural rules which will be adopted by decision of the Council of Ministers at the first meeting following the signing of this Agreement, upon the recommendation of the ACP-EC Development Finance Cooperation Committee.
Article 31 Tax and customs arrangements 1.
The contract for supplies originating in the ACP State concerned shall be concluded on the basis of the ex-works price of the supplies to which may be added such internal fiscal charges as may be applicable to those supplies in the ACP State; (f) fuels, lubricants and hydrocarbon binders and, in general, all materials used in the performance of works contracts shall be deemed to have been purchased on the local market and shall be subject to fiscal rules applicable under the national legislation in force in the beneficiary ACP State; and (g) personal and household effects imported for use by natural persons, other than those recruited locally, engaged in carrying out tasks defined in a service contract and members of their families, shall be exempt from customs or import duties, taxes and other fiscal charges having equivalent effect, within the limit of the national legislation in force in the beneficiary ACP State. 3.
Article 33 Modalities 1.
CHAPTER 6 MANAGEMENT AND EXECUTING AGENTS Article 34 The Chief Authorising Officer 1.
The Chief Authorising Officer shall be responsible for commitment, clearance, authorisation and accounting of expenditure under the Fund. 2.
Article 35 National Authorising Officer 1.
The National Authorising Officer shall: (a) in close cooperation with the Head of Delegation be responsible for the preparation, submission and appraisal of projects and programmes; (b) in close cooperation with the Head of Delegation, issue invitations for local open tender, receive tenders, both local and international( open and restricted), preside over the examination of tenders, establish the results of this examination, sign contracts and riders thereto and approve expenditure; (c) submit, before issuing local open invitations to tender, the invitation to tender dossier to the Head of Delegation who shall give his agreement within 30 days; (d) complete the evaluation of tenders within the tender validity period taking into consideration the period required for the approval of contracts; (e) transmit the results of the examination of and a proposal for placing the contract to the Head of Delegation for his approval within the time limits set out in Article 36; (f) clear and authorise expenditure within the limits of the funds assigned to him; and (g) during the execution operations, make any adaptation arrangements necessary to ensure the proper execution of approved projects or programmes from the economic and technical viewpoint. 2.
To this end, and in close cooperation with the National Authorising Officer, the Head of Delegation shall: (a) at the request of the ACP State concerned, participate and give assistance in the preparation of projects and programmes and in negotiating technical assistance contracts; (b) participate in appraising projects and programmes, preparing tender dossiers and seeking ways to simplify project and programme appraisal and implementation procedures; (c) prepare financing proposals; (d) approve, before the National Authorising Officer issues them, the local open invitation to tender and the emergency assistance contract dossiers within 30 days of their submission to him by the National Authorising Officer; (e) be present at the opening of tenders and receive copies of them and of the results of their examination; (f) approve, within 30 days, the National Authorising Officer's proposal for the placing of local open tenders, direct agreement contracts, emergency assistance contracts, service contracts and works contracts with a value less than EUR 5 million and supply contracts with a value less than EUR 1 million; (g) for all other contracts not covered by the above, approve within 30 days the National Authorising Officer's proposal for the placing of the contract wherever the following conditions are fulfilled: (i) the tender selected is the lowest of those conforming to the requirements of the tender dossier; (ii) the tender selected meets all the selection criteria stated in the tender dossier; and (iii) the tender selected does not exceed the sum earmarked for the contract. (h) where the conditions set out in paragraph (g) are not fulfilled, forward the proposal to the Chief Authorising Officer who shall decide thereon within 60 days of the receipt of the Head of Delegation.
Article 37 Payments and paying agents 1.
For the purpose of effecting payments in the national currencies of the ACP States, accounts denominated in the currencies of the Members States or in Euro shall be opened in each ACP State in the name of the Commission with a national public or semi-public financial institution chosen by agreement between the ACP State and the Commission.
However, if during this period, the Community: - subjects one or more products to common organization of the market or to specific rules introduced as a result of the implementation of the common agricultural policy, it shall reserve the right to adapt the import treatment for those products originating in the ACP States, following consultations within the Council of Ministers.
Consultations shall take place where the ACP States so request in order to safeguard their interests.
The Community shall not apply to imports of products originating in the ACP States any quantitative restrictions or measures having equivalent effect. 2.
In cases where implementation of the measures referred to in paragraph 2 affects the interests of one or more ACP States, consultation shall be held at the request of the latter, in accordance with the provisions of Article 12 of this Agreement, with a view to reaching a satisfactory solution.
Where new measures or measures stipulated in programmes adopted by the Community for the approximation of laws and regulations in order to facilitate the movement of goods are likely to affect the interests of one or more ACP States, the Community shall, prior to adopting such measures, inform the ACP States thereof through the Council of Ministers. 2.
In order to enable the Community to take into consideration the interests of the ACP State concerned, consultations shall be held at the request of the latter in accordance with the provisions of Article 12 of this Agreement, with a view to reaching a satisfactory solution.
Where existing Community rules or regulations adopted in order to facilitate the movement of goods affect the interests of one or more ACP States or where these interests are affected by the interpretation, application or administration of such rules or regulations, consultations shall be held at the request of the ACP States concerned with a view to reaching a satisfactory solution. 2.
The relevant institutions of the Community shall, to the greatest possible extent, inform the Council of Ministers of such measures in order to ensure effective consultations.
The Council of Ministers may adopt any amendment to Protocol 1. 3.
Where any product is being imported into the Community in such increased quantities and under such conditions as to cause or threaten to cause serious injury to its domestic producers of like or directly competitive products or serious disturbances in any sector of the economy or difficulties which could bring about serious deterioration in the economic situation of a region, the Community may take appropriate measures under the conditions and in accordance with the procedures laid down in Article 9. 2.
The Community will refrain from using safeguard measures having the same effect. 3.
The Parties undertake to hold regular consultations with a view to finding satisfactory solutions to problems which might result from the application of the safeguard clause. 6.
Article 10 The Council of Ministers shall, at the request of any Party concerned, consider the economic and social effects of the application of the safeguard clause.
Article 12 In order to ensure the effective implementation of this Annex, the Parties agree to inform and consult each other.
In addition to the cases for which consultations are specifically provided for in Articles 2 to 9 of this Annex, consultations shall also take place, at the request of the Community or the ACP States, and in accordance with the conditions provided for in the procedural rules in Article 12 of this Agreement, particularly in the following cases: (1) where Parties intend to take any trade measures affecting the interests of one or more Parties under this Annex, they shall inform the Council of Ministers thereof.
Consultations shall take place, where the Parties concerned so request, in order to take account of their respective interests; (2) if, during the application of this Annex, the ACP States consider that agricultural products covered by Artic1e 1(2)(a) other than those subject to special treatment should benefit form such treatment, consultations may take place within the Council of Ministers; (3) where a Party considers that obstacles to the movement of goods arise as a result of the existing rules of another Party or the interpretation, application or administration thereof; (4) where the Community takes safeguard measures in accordance with the provisions of Article 8, consultations on these measures may take place within the Council of Ministers, where the Parties concerned so request, notably with a view to ensuring compliance with Article 8(3).
CHAPTER 2 SPECIAL UNDERTAKING ON SUGAR AND BEEF AND VEAL Article 13 1.
For the purpose of Article 8 of the said Protocol the institutions established under this Agreement may be used during the period of application of this Agreement. 5.
The declarations contained in Annexes XIII, XXI and XXII of the Final Act to the ACP-EEC Convention of Lom signed on 28 February 1975 are reaffirmed and their provisions shall continue to apply.
Article 14 The special undertaking on beef and veal, defined in Protocol 4 annexed hereto shall apply.
For the purpose of implementing the trade co-operation provisions of ANNEX V, the following products shall be considered as originating in the ACP States: (a) products wholly obtained in the ACP States within the meaning of Article 3 of this Protocol; (b) products obtained in the ACP States incorporating materials which have not been wholly obtained there, provided that such materials have undergone sufficient working or processing in the ACP States within the meaning of Article 4 of this Protocol. 2.
The following shall be considered as wholly obtained, in the ACP States or in the Community, or in the overseas countries and territories defined in Annex III, hereafter referred to as the OCT: (a) mineral products extracted from their soil or from their seabed; (b) vegetable products harvested there; (c) live animals born and raised there; (d) products from live animals raised there; (e) products obtained by hunting or fishing conducted there; (f) products of sea fishing and other products taken from the sea outside the territorial waters by their vessels; (g) products made aboard their factory ships exclusively from products referred to in subparagraph (f); (h) used articles collected there fit only for the recovery of raw materials, including used tyres fit only for retreading or for use as waste; (i) waste and scrap resulting from manufacturing operations conducted there; (j) products extracted from marine soil or subsoil outside their territorial waters provided that they have sole rights to work that soil or subsoil; (k) goods produced there exclusively from the products specified in subparagraphs (a) to (j). 2.
The terms %quot%their vessels%quot% and %quot%their factory ships%quot% in paragraph 1(f) and (g) shall apply only to vessels and factory ships: (a) which are registered or recorded in an EC Member State, in an ACP State or in an OCT (b) which sail under the flag of an EC Member State, of an ACP State or of an OCT; (c) which are owned to an extent of at least 50 per cent by nationals of States party to the Agreement, or of an OCT, or by a company with its head office in one of these States or OCT, of which the Chairman of the Board of Directors or the Supervisory Board, and the majority of the members of such boards are nationals of States party to the Agreement, or of an OCT, and of which, in addition, in the case of partnerships or limited companies, at least half the capital belongs to those States party to the Agreement or to public bodies or nationals of the said States, or of an OCT; (d) of which at least 50 % of the crew, master and officers included, are nationals of States party to the Agreement, or of an OCT. 3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2, the Community shall recognise, upon request of an ACP State, that vessels chartered or leased by the ACP State be treated as %quot%their vessels%quot% to undertake fisheries activities in its exclusive economic zone under the following conditions: - that the ACP State offered the Community the opportunity to negotiate a fisheries agreement and the Community did not accept this offer; - that at least 50 % of the crew, master and officers included are nationals of States party to the Agreement, or of an OCT; - that the charter or lease contract has been accepted by the ACP-EC Customs Cooperation Committee as providing adequate opportunities for developing the capacity of the ACP State to fish on its own account and in particular as conferring on the ACP State the responsibility for the nautical and commercial management of the vessel placed at its disposal for a significant period of time.
Article 4 Sufficiently worked or processed products 1.
Notwithstanding paragraph 1, non-originating materials which, according to the conditions set out in the list, should not be used in the manufacture of a given product may nevertheless be used, provided that: (a) their total value does not exceed 15 per cent of the ex-works price of the product; (b) any of the percentages given in the list for the maximum value of non-originating materials are not exceeded through the application of this paragraph. 3.
Without prejudice to paragraph 2, the following operations shall be considered as insufficient working or processing to confer the status of originating products, whether or not the requirements of Article 4 are satisfied: (a) operations to ensure the preservation of products in good condition during transport and storage (ventilation, spreading out, drying, chilling, placing in salt, sulphur dioxide or other aqueous solutions, removal of damaged parts, and like operations); (b) simple operations consisting of removal of dust, sifting or screening, sorting, classifying, matching (including the making-up of sets of articles), washing, painting, cutting up; c) (i) changes of packaging and breaking up and assembly of packages; (ii) simple placing in bottles, flasks, bags, cases, boxes, fixing on cards or boards, etc., and all other simple packaging operations; (d) affixing marks, labels and other like distinguishing signs on products or their packaging; (e) simple mixing of products, whether or not of different kinds, where one or more components of the mixtures do not meet the conditions laid down in this Protocol to enable them to be considered as originating in an ACP State, in the Community or in the OCT; (f) simple assembly of parts to constitute a complete product; (g) a combination of two or more operations specified in subparagraphs (a) to (f); (h) slaughter of animals. 2.
Materials originating in the Community or in the OCT shall be considered as materials originating in the ACP States when incorporated into a product obtained there.
It shall not be necessary that such materials have undergone sufficient working or processing, provided they have undergone working or processing going beyond that referred to in Article 5. 2.
Cumulation with South Africa 3.
Subject to the provisions of paragraphs 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8, materials originating in South Africa shall be considered as originating in the ACP States when incorporated into a product obtained there.
It shall not be necessary that such materials have undergone sufficient working or processing. 4.
Products which have acquired originating status by virtue of paragraph 3 shall only continue to be considered as products originating in the ACP States when the value added there exceeds the value of the materials used originating in South Africa.
The cumulation provided for in paragraph 3 may only be applied after 3 years for the products listed in Annex XI and 6 years for the products listed in Annex XII respectively, as from the provisional application of the Agreement on Trade, Development and Co-operation between the European Community and the Republic of South Africa.
The cumulation provided for in paragraph 3 shall not be applicable to the products listed in Annex XIII. 6.
Notwithstanding paragraph 5, the cumulation provided for in paragraph 3 may be applied at the request of the ACP States for the products listed in Annexes XI and XII.
The ACP-EC Committee of Ambassadors shall decide on the ACP requests, product per product, on the basis of a report drawn up by the ACP-EC Customs Co-operation Committee in accordance with Article 37.
The cumulation provided for in paragraph 3 may only be applied where the South African materials used have acquired the status of originating products by an application of the rules of origin identical to those set out in this Protocol.
Without prejudice to paragraphs 5 and 7, working and processing carried out in South Africa shall be considered as having been carried out in an other Member State of the South African Customs Union (SACU) when the materials undergo subsequent working or processing in that other Member State of SACU. 10.
Without prejudice to paragraphs 5 and 7 and at the request of the ACP States, working and processing carried out in South Africa, shall be considered as having been carried out in the ACP States, when the materials undergo subsequent working or processing in an ACP State within the context of a regional economic integration agreement.
Unless there is a specific request by either party for a referral of the decision to the ACP-EC Council of Ministers, the ACP-EC Customs Cooperation Committee shall decide on the ACP requests in accordance with Article 37.
It shall not be necessary that such materials have undergone sufficient working or processing, provided that: - the working or processing carried out in the ACP State exceeds the operations listed in Article 5.
However, products of Chapter 50 to 63 of the Harmonised System shall in addition undergo in the ACP State at least working or processing as a result of which the product obtained is classified in a heading which is different from those in which the materials originating in the non-ACP developing country used in its manufacture, are classified.
Unless there is a specific request by either party for a referral of the decision to the ACP-EC Council of Ministers, the ACP-EC Customs Cooperation Committee shall decide on the ACP requests in accordance with Article 37.
Article 9 Sets Sets, as defined in General Rule 3 of the Harmonized System, shall be regarded as originating when all component products are originating.
Nevertheless, when a set is composed of originating and non-originating products, the set as a whole shall be regarded as originating, provided that the value of the non-originating products does not exceed 15 per cent of the ex-works price of the set.
Article 10 Neutral elements In order to determine whether a product originates, it shall not be necessary to determine the origin of the following which might be used in its manufacture: (a) energy and fuel; (b) plant and equipment; (c) machines and tools; (d) goods which do not enter and which are not intended to enter into the final composition of the product.
TITLE III TERRITORIAL REQUIREMENTS Article 11 Principle of territoriality 1.
The conditions set out in Title II relative to the acquisition of originating status must be fulfilled without interruption in the ACP States, except as provided for in Article 6. 2.
Originating products may be transported by pipeline across territory other than that of an ACP State, of the Community or of an OCT. 2.
Evidence that the conditions set out in paragraph 1 have been fulfilled shall be supplied to the customs authorities of the importing country by the production of: (a) a single transport document covering the passage from the exporting country through the country of transit; or (b) a certificate issued by the customs authorities of the country of transit: (i) giving an exact description of the products; (ii) stating the dates of unloading and reloading of the products and, where applicable, the names of the ships, or the other means of transport used; and (iii) certifying the conditions under which the products remained in the transit country; or (c) failing these, any substantiating documents.
Article 13 Exhibitions 1.
A proof of origin must be issued or made out in accordance with the provisions of Title IV and submitted to the customs authorities of the importing country in the normal manner.
Where necessary, additional documentary evidence of the conditions under which they have been exhibited may be required. 3.
TITLE IV PROOF OF ORIGIN Article 14 General requirements 1.
Products originating in the ACP States shall, on importation into the Community benefit from Annex V upon submission of either: (a) a movement certificate EUR.1, a specimen of which appears in Annex IV; or (b) in the cases specified in Article 19(1), a declaration, the text of which appears in Annex V to this Protocol, given by the exporter on an invoice, a delivery note or any other commercial document which describes the products concerned in sufficient detail to enable them to be identified (hereinafter referred to as the %quot%invoice declaration%quot%). 2.
Notwithstanding paragraph 1, originating products within the meaning of this Protocol shall, in the cases specified in Article 25, benefit from Annex V without it being necessary to submit any of the documents referred to above.
Article 15 Procedure for the issue of a movement certificate EUR.1 1.
These forms shall be completed in accordance with the provisions of this Protocol.
The exporter applying for the issue of a movement certificate EUR.1 shall be prepared to submit at any time, at the request of the customs authorities of the exporting ACP State where the movement certificate EUR.1 is issued, all appropriate documents proving the originating status of the products concerned as well as the fulfillment of the other requirements of this Protocol. 4.
A movement certificate EUR.1 shall be issued by the customs authorities of the exporting ACP State if the products concerned can be considered as products originating in the ACP States or in one of the other countries referred to in Article 6 and fulfil the other requirements of this Protocol. 5.
The date of issue of the movement certificate EUR.1 shall be indicated in Box 11 of the certificate. 7.
Article 16 Movement certificates EUR.1 issued retrospectively 1.
Notwithstanding Article 15(7), a movement certificate EUR.1 may exceptionally be issued after exportation of the products to which it relates if: (a) it was not issued at the time of exportation because of errors or involuntary omissions or special circumstances; or (b) it is demonstrated to the satisfaction of the customs authorities that a movement certificate EUR.1 was issued but was not accepted at importation for technical reasons. 2.
The customs authorities may issue a movement certificate EUR.1 retrospectively only after verifying that the information supplied in the exporter's application agrees with that in the corresponding file. 4.
Movement certificates EUR.1 issued retrospectively must be endorsed with one of the following phrases: %quot%NACHTRGLICH AUSGESTELLT%quot%, %quot%DELIVR A POSTERIORI%quot%, %quot%RILASCIATO A POSTERIORI%quot%, %quot%AFGEGEVEN A POSTERIORI%quot%, %quot%ISSUED RETROSPECTIVELY%quot%, %quot%UDSTEDT EFTERFLGENDE%quot%, %quot%   %quot%, %quot%EXPEDIDO A POSTERIORI%quot%, %quot%EMITIDO A POSTERIORI%quot%, %quot%ANNETTU JLKIKTEEN%quot%, %quot%UTFRDAT I EFTERHAND%quot%. 5.
The endorsement referred to in paragraph 4 shall be inserted in the %quot%Remarks%quot% box of the movement certificate EUR.1.
Article 17 Issue of a duplicate movement certificate EUR.1 1.
The duplicate issued in this way must be endorsed with one of the following words: %quot%DUPLIKAT%quot%, %quot%DUPLICATA%quot%, %quot%DUPLICATO%quot%, %quot%DUPLICAAT%quot%, %quot%DUPLICATE%quot%, %quot%%quot%, %quot%DUPLICADO%quot%, %quot%SEGUNDA VIA%quot%, %quot%KAKSOISKAPPALE%quot%. 3.
The endorsement referred to in paragraph 2 shall be inserted in the %quot%Remarks%quot% box of the duplicate movement certificate EUR.1. 4.
Article 18 Issue of movement certificates EUR.1 on the basis of a proof of origin issued or made out previously When originating products are placed under the control of a customs office in an ACP State or in the Community , it shall be possible to replace the original proof of origin by one or more movement certificates EUR.1 for the purpose of sending all or some of these products elsewhere within the ACP States or within the Community.
Article 19 Conditions for making out an invoice declaration 1.
An invoice declaration shall be made out by the exporter by typing, stamping or printing on the invoice, the delivery note or another commercial document, the declaration, the text of which appears in Annex V to this Protocol, using one of the linguistic versions set out in that Annex and in accordance with the provisions of the domestic law of the exporting country.
A proof of origin shall be valid for ten months from the date of issue in the exporting country, and must be submitted within the said period to the customs authorities of the importing country. 2.
Proofs of origin which are submitted to the customs authorities of the importing country after the final date for presentation specified in paragraph 1 may be accepted for the purpose of applying preferential treatment, where the failure to submit these documents by the final date set is due to exceptional circumstances. 3.
In other cases of belated presentation, the customs authorities of the importing country may accept the proofs of origin where the products have been submitted before the said final date.
Article 22 Transit procedure When the products enter an ACP State or OCT other than the country of origin, a further period of validity of 4 months shall begin on the date on which the customs authorities in the country of transit enter the following in box 7 of the certificate EUR.1: - the word %quot%transit%quot%, - the name of the country of transit, - the official stamp, a specimen of which had been made available to the Commission, in conformity with Article 31, - date of the endorsements.
Article 23 Submission of proof of origin Proofs of origin shall be submitted to the customs authorities of the importing country in accordance with the procedures applicable in that country.
Article 24 Importation by installments Where, at the request of the importer and on the conditions laid down by the customs authorities of the importing country, dismantled or non-assembled products within the meaning of General Rule 2(a) of the Harmonized System falling within Sections XVI and XVII or heading Nos 7308 and 9406 of the Harmonized System are imported by installments, a single proof of origin for such products shall be submitted to the customs authorities upon importation of the first installment.
In the case of products sent by post, this declaration can be made on the customs declaration CN22/CN23 or on a sheet of paper annexed to that document. 2.
Furthermore, the total value of these products shall not exceed EUR 500 in the case of small packages or EUR 1200 in the case of products forming part of travellers' personal luggage.
Article 26 Information procedure for cumulation purposes 1.
When Articles 2(2) and 6(1) are applied, the evidence of originating status within the meaning of this protocol of the materials coming from the other ACP States, the Community or the OCT shall be given by a movement certificate EUR 1 or by the supplier's declaration, a specimen of which appears in Annex VI A to this Protocol, given by the exporter in the State or OCT from which the materials came. 2.
When Articles 2(2), 6(2) and 6(9) are applied, the evidence of the working or processing carried out in the other ACP States, the Community, the OCT or South Africa shall be given by the supplier's declaration a specimen of which appears in Annex VI B to this Protocol, given by the exporter in the State or OCT from which the materials came. 3.
The supplier's declaration may be made out on a pre-printed form. 5.
The suppliers' declarations shall be signed in manuscript.
However, where the invoice and the supplier's declaration are established using electronic data-processing methods, the supplier's declaration need not be signed in manuscript provided the responsible official in the supplying company is identified to the satisfaction of the customs authorities in the State where the suppliers' declarations are established.
The supplier's declarations are submitted to the competent customs office in the exporting ACP State requested to issue the movement certificate EUR 1. 7.
Article 27 Supporting documents The documents referred to in Articles 15(3) and 19(3) used for the purpose of proving that products covered by a movement certificate EUR.1 or an invoice declaration can be considered as products originating in an ACP State or in one of the other countries referred to in Article 6 and fulfil the other requirements of this Protocol may consist inter alia of the following: (a) direct evidence of the processes carried out by the exporter or supplier to obtain the goods concerned, contained for example in his accounts or internal bookkeeping; (b) documents proving the originating status of materials used, issued or made out in an ACP State or in one of the other countries referred to in Article 6 where these documents are used in accordance with domestic law; (c) documents proving the working or processing of materials in the ACP States, in the Community or in the OCT, issued or made out in an ACP State, in the Community or in an OCT, where these documents are used in accordance with domestic law; (d) movement certificates EUR.1 or invoice declarations proving the originating status of materials used, issued or made out in the ACP States or in one of the other countries referred to in Article 6 and in accordance with this Protocol.
Article 28 Preservation of proof of origin and supporting documents 1.
The exporter applying for the issue of a movement certificate EUR.1 shall keep for at least three years the documents referred to in Article 15(3). 2.
The exporter making out an invoice declaration shall keep for at least three years a copy of this invoice declaration as well as the documents referred to in Article 19(3). 3.
The customs authorities of the exporting country issuing a movement certificate EUR.1 shall keep for at least three years the application form referred to in Article 15(2). 4.
The customs authorities of the importing country shall keep for at least three years the movement certificates EUR.1 and the invoice declarations submitted to them.
Article 29 Discrepancies and formal errors 1.
The amounts to be used in any given national currency of a Member State shall be the equivalent in that national currency of the amounts expressed in euro as at the first working day in October 1999. 2.
The Commission shall send this information to the customs authorities of the Member States. 2.
In order to ensure the proper application of this Protocol, the Community, the OCT, the ACP States shall assist each other, through the competent customs administrations, in checking the authenticity of the movement certificates EUR.1, the invoice declarations or supplier's declarations and the correctness of the information given in these documents.
Article 32 Verification of proofs of origin 1.
These results must indicate clearly whether the documents are authentic and whether the products concerned can be considered as products originating in the ACP States or in one of the countries referred to in Article 6 and fulfil the other requirements of this Protocol. 6.
If in cases of reasonable doubt there is no reply within ten months of the date of the verification request or if the reply does not contain sufficient information to determine the authenticity of the document in question or the real origin of the products, the requesting customs authorities shall, except in exceptional circumstances, refuse entitlement to the preferences. 7.
Where the verification procedure or any other available information appears to indicate that the provisions of this Protocol are being contravened, the ACP State on its own initiative or at the request of the Community shall carry out appropriate enquires or arrange for such enquiries to be carried out with due urgency to identify and prevent such contraventions and for this purpose the ACP State concerned may invite the participation of the Community in these enquiries.
Article 33 Verification of suppliers' declarations 1.
The customs authorities to which a supplier's declaration is submitted may request the customs authorities of the State where the declaration was made to issue an information certificate, a specimen of which appears in Annex VII to this Protocol.
Alternatively, the customs authorities to which a supplier's declaration is submitted may request the exporter to produce an information certificate issued by the customs authorities of the State where the declaration was made.
The customs authorities in the State where the supplier's declaration is established shall have the right to call for any evidence or to carry out any check which they consider appropriate in order to verify the correctness of any supplier's declaration. 6.
Any movement certificate EUR.1 or invoice declaration issued or made out on the basis of an incorrect supplier's declaration shall be considered null and void.
Article 34 Dispute settlement Where disputes arise in relation to the verification procedures of Articles 32 and 33 which cannot be settled between the customs authorities requesting a verification and the customs authorities responsible for carrying out this verification or where they raise a question as to the interpretation of this Protocol, they shall be submitted to the Customs Cooperation Committee.
Article 35 Penalties Penalties shall be imposed on any person who draws up, or causes to be drawn up, a document which contains incorrect information for the purpose of obtaining a preferential treatment for products.
By means of an exemption to the provisions contained in paragraph 1, when originating products are imported into a free zone under cover of a proof of origin and undergo treatment or processing, the authorities concerned shall issue a new EUR.1 certificate at the exporter's request, if the treatment or processing undergone is in conformity with the provisions of this Protocol.
The Committee shall examine regularly the effect on the ACP States and in particular on the least developed ACP States of application of the rules of origin and shall recommend to the Council of Ministers appropriate measures. 3.
The Committee shall meet regularly, in particular to prepare the decisions of the Council of Ministers pursuant to Article 40. 6.
Article 38 Derogations 1.
In order to facilitate the examination by the Committee of requests for derogation, the ACP State making the request shall, by means of the form given in Annex VIII to this Protocol, furnish in support of its request the fullest possible information covering in particular the points listed below: - description of the finished product, - nature and quantity of materials originating in a third country, - nature and quantity of materials originating in ACP States, the Community or the OCT, or which have been processed there, - manufacturing processes, - value added, - number of employees in the enterprise concerned, - anticipated volume of exports to the Community, - other possible sources of supply for raw materials - reasons for the duration requested in the light of efforts made to find new sources of supply, - other observations.
The Committee may modify the form. 3.
The examination of requests shall in particular take into account: (a) the level of development or the geographical situation of the ACP State or States concerned; (b) cases where the application of the existing rules of origin would significantly affect the ability of an existing industry in an ACP State to continue its exports to the Community, with particular reference to cases where this could lead to cessation of its activities; (c) specific cases where it can be clearly demonstrated that significant investment in an industry could be deterred by the rules of origin and where a derogation favouring the realisation of the investment programme would enable these rules to be satisfied by stages. 4.
In the examination of requests, special account shall be taken, case by case, of the possibility of conferring originating status on products which include in their composition materials originating in neighbouring developing countries, least-developed countries or developing countries with which one or more ACP States have special relations, provided that satisfactory administrative co-operation can be established. 7.
Without prejudice to paragraphs 1 to 6, the derogation shall be granted where the value added to the non-originating products used in the ACP State or States concerned is at least 45 % of the value of the finished product, provided that the derogation is not such as to cause serious injury to an economic sector of the Community or of one or more Member States. 8.
Notwithstanding paragraphs 1 to 7, derogations concerning canned tuna and tuna loins shall only be granted within an annual quota of 8000 tonnes for canned tuna and within an annual quota of 2000 tonnes for tuna loins.
The Committee shall take steps necessary to ensure that a decision is reached as quickly as possible and in any case not later than seventy-five working days after the request is received by the EC Co-chairman of the Committee.
TITLE VI CEUTA AND MELILLA Article 39 Special conditions 1.
The term %quot%Community%quot% used in this Protocol shall not cover Ceuta and Melilla.
The term %quot%products originating in the Community%quot% shall not cover products originating in Ceuta and Melilla. 2.
The provisions of this Protocol shall apply mutatis mutandis in determining whether products may be deemed as originating in the ACP States when imported into Ceuta and Melilla. 3.
For the purpose of implementing paragraphs 3 and 4, the insufficient operations listed in Article 5 shall not be considered as working or processing. 6.
Ceuta and Melilla shall be considered as a single territory.
TITLE VII FINAL PROVISIONS Article 40 Revision of rules of origin In accordance with Article 7 of Annex V, the Council of Ministers shall examine annually, or whenever the ACP States or the Community so request, the application of the provisions of this Protocol and their economic effects with a view to making any necessary amendments or adaptations.
The Council of Ministers shall take into account among other elements the effects on the rules of origin of technological developments.
Article 41 Annexes The Annexes to this Protocol shall form an integral part thereof.
The first column gives the heading number or chapter number used in the Harmonized System and the second column gives the description of goods used in that system for that heading or chapter.
For each entry in the first two columns a rule is specified in columns 3 or 4.
Where several heading numbers are grouped together in column 1 or a chapter number is given and the description of products in column 2 is therefore given in general terms, the adjacent rules in columns 3 or 4 apply to all products which, under the Harmonized System, are classified in headings of the chapter or in any of the headings grouped together in column 1. 3.
Where, for an entry in the first two columns, a rule is specified in both columns 3 and 4, the exporter may opt, as an alternative, to apply either the rule set out in column 3 or that set out in column 4.
The provisions of Article 4 of the Protocol concerning products having acquired originating status which are used in the manufacture of other products apply regardless of whether this status has been acquired inside the factory where these products are used or in another factory in the Community or in the ACP States.
Example: An engine of heading No 8407, for which the rule states that the value of the non-originating materials which may be incorporated may not exceed 40 per cent of the ex-works price, is made from %quot%other alloy steel roughly shaped by forging%quot% of heading No ex 7224.
Without prejudice to Note 3.2 where a rule states that %quot%materials of any heading%quot% may be used, materials of the same heading as the product may also be used, subject, however, to any specific limitations which may also be contained in the rule.
However, the expression %quot%manufacture from materials of any heading, including other materials of heading No ...%quot% means that only materials classified in the same heading as the product of a different description than that of the product as given in column 2 of the list may be used. 4.
When a rule in the list specifies that a product may be manufactured from more than one material, this means that any one or more materials may be used.
Where, in a rule in the list, two percentages are given for the maximum value of non-originating materials that can be used, then these percentages may not be added together.
The term %quot%natural fibres%quot% includes horsehair of heading No 0503, silk of heading Nos 5002 and 5003 as well as the wool fibres, fine or coarse animal hair of heading Nos 5101 to 5105, the cotton fibres of heading Nos 5201 to 5203 and the other vegetable fibres of heading Nos 5301 to 5305. 3.
The terms %quot%textile pulp%quot%, %quot%chemical materials%quot% and %quot%paper-making materials%quot% are used in the list to describe the materials not classified in Chapters 50 to 63, which can be used to manufacture artificial, synthetic or paper fibres or yarns. 4.
The term %quot%man-made staple fibres%quot% is used in the list to refer to synthetic or artificial filament tow, staple fibres or waste, of heading Nos 5501 to 5507.
However, the tolerance mentioned in Note 5.1 may only be applied to mixed products which have been made from two or more basic textile materials.
The following are the basic textile materials: - silk, - wool, - coarse animal hair, - fine animal hair, - horsehair, - cotton, - paper-making materials and paper, - flax, - true hemp, - jute and other textile bast fibres, - sisal and other textile fibres of the genus Agave, - coconut, abaca, ramie and other vegetable textile fibres, - synthetic man-made filaments, - artificial man-made filaments, - current conducting filaments, - synthetic man-made staple fibres of polypropylene, - synthetic man-made staple fibres of polyester, - synthetic man-made staple fibres of polyamide, - synthetic man-made staple fibres of polyacrylonitrile, - synthetic man-made staple fibres of polyimide, - synthetic man-made staple fibres of polytetrafluoroethylene, - synthetic man-made staple fibres of polyphenylene sulphide, - synthetic man-made staple fibres of polyvinyl chloride, - other synthetic man-made staple fibres, - artificial man-made staple fibres of viscose, - other artificial man-made staple fibres, - yarn made of polyurethane segmented with flexible segments of polyether whether or not gimped, - yarn made of polyurethane segmented with flexible segments of polyester whether or not gimped, - products of heading No 5605 (metallized yarn) incorporating strip consisting of a core of aluminium foil or of a core of plastic film whether or not coated with aluminium powder, of a width not exceeding 5 mm, sandwiched by means of a transparent or coloured adhesive between two layers of plastic film, - other products of heading No 5605.
Example: A yarn of heading No 5205 made from cotton fibres of heading No 5203 and synthetic staple fibres of heading No 5506 is a mixed yarn.
Therefore, non-originating synthetic staple fibres that do not satisfy the origin rules (which require manufacture from chemical materials or textile pulp) may be used up to a weight of 10 per cent of the yarn.
Example: Tufted textile fabric of heading No 5802 made from cotton yarn of heading No 5205 and cotton fabric of heading No 5210 is only a mixed product if the cotton fabric is itself a mixed fabric being made from yarns classified in two separate headings or if the cotton yarns used are themselves mixtures.
Example: If the tufted textile fabric concerned had been made from cotton yarn of heading No 5205 and synthetic fabric of heading No 5407, then, obviously, the yarns used are two separate basic textile materials and the tufted textile fabric is accordingly a mixed product. 3.
In the case of products incorporating %quot%yarn made of polyurethane segmented with flexible segments of polyether whether or not gimped%quot% this tolerance is 20 per cent in respect of this yarn. 4.
In the case of those textile products, which are marked in the list by a footnote referring to this Introductory Note, textile trimmings and accessories which do not satisfy the rule set out in the list in column 3 for the made up products concerned may be used provided that their weight does not exceed 10 % of the total weight of all the textile materials incorporated.
Textile trimmings and accessories are those classified in Chapters 50 to 63.
Any non-textile trimmings and accessories or other materials used which contain textiles do not have to satisfy the conditions set out in column 3 even though they fall outside the scope of Note 3.5. 3.
For the purposes of heading Nos ex 2707, 2713 to 2715, ex 2901, ex 2902 and ex 3403, the %quot%specific processes%quot% are the following: (a) vacuum distillation; (b) redistillation by a very thorough fractionation process(2); (c) cracking; (d) reforming; (e) extraction by means of selective solvents; (f) the process comprising all the following operations: processing with concentrated sulphuric acid, oleum or sulphuric anhydride; neutralization with alkaline agents; decolorization and purification with naturally active earth, activated earth, activated charcoal or bauxite; (g) polymerization; (h) alkylation; (i) isomerization. 2.
For the purposes of heading Nos 2710, 2711 and 2712, the %quot%specific processes%quot% are the following: (a) vacuum distillation; (b) redistillation by a very thorough fractionation process(3) (c) cracking; (d) reforming; (e) extraction by means of selective solvents; (f) the process comprising all the following operations: processing with concentrated sulphuric acid, oleum or sulphuric anhydride; neutralization with alkaline agents; decolorization and purification with naturally active earth, activated earth, activated charcoal or bauxite; (g) polymerization; (h) alkylation; (i) isomerization; (j) in respect of heavy oils falling within heading No ex 2710 only, desulphurization with hydrogen resulting in a reduction of at least 85 per cent of the sulphur content of the products processed (ASTM D 1266-59 T method); (k) in respect of products falling within heading No 2710 only, deparaffining by a process other than filtering; (l) in respect of heavy oils falling within heading No ex 2710 only, treatment with hydrogen at a pressure of more than 20 bar and a temperature of more than 250 C with the use of a catalyst, other than to effect desulphurization, when the hydrogen constitutes an active element in a chemical reaction.
For the purposes of heading Nos ex 2707, 2713 to 2715, ex 2901, ex 2902 and ex 3403, simple operations such as cleaning, decanting, desalting, water separation, filtering, colouring, marking, obtaining a sulphur content as a result of mixing products with different sulphur contents, any combination of these operations or like operations do not confer origin. (1) This example is given for the purpose of explanation only.
It is not legally binding. (2) See additional Explanatory Note 4(b) to Chapter 27 of the Combined Nomenclature. (3) This example is given for the purpose of explanation only.
Overseas territories of the French Republic: - New Caledonia, - French Polynesia, - French Southern and Antarctic Territories, - Wallis and Futuna Islands. 3.
Territorial collectivities of the French Republic: - Mayotte, - Saint Pierre and Miquelon. 4.
Overseas countries of the Kingdom of the Netherlands: - Aruba, - Netherlands Antilles: - Bonaire, - Curaao, - Saba, - Sint Eustatius, - Sint Maarten. 5.
British overseas countries and territories: - Anguilla, - Cayman Islands, - Falkland Islands, - South Georgia and South Sandwich Islands, - Montserrat, - Pitcairn, - Saint Helena, Ascension Island, Tristan da Cunha - British Antarctic Territory, - British Indian Ocean Territory, - Turks and Caicos Islands, - British Virgin Islands.
Each certificate shall measure 210 x 297 mm, a tolerance of up to plus 8 mm or minus 5 mm in the length may be allowed.
The paper used must be white, sized for writing, not containing mechanical pulp and weighing not less than 25 g/m2.
It shall also bear a serial number, either printed or not, by which it can be identified. %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2000317EN.018901.EPS%quot%%gt% %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2000317EN.019001.EPS%quot%%gt% %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2000317EN.019101.EPS%quot%%gt% %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2000317EN.019201.EPS%quot%%gt% Annex V to Protocol 1 %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2000317EN.019302.EPS%quot%%gt% %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2000317EN.019401.EPS%quot%%gt% Annex via to Protocol 1 %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2000317EN.019502.EPS%quot%%gt% Annex VIB to Protocol 1 %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2000317EN.019602.EPS%quot%%gt% Annex VII to Protocol 1 Information Certificate 1.
The information certificate shall measure 210 x 297 mm, a tolerance of up to plus 8 mm or minus 5 mm in the length may be allowed.
The forms shall bear the name and address of the printer or a mark by which the printer can be identified. %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2000317EN.019901.EPS%quot%%gt% %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2000317EN.020001.EPS%quot%%gt% Annex VIII to Protocol 1 %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2000317EN.020102.EPS%quot%%gt% %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2000317EN.020201.EPS%quot%%gt% Annex IX to Protocol 1 LIST OF WORKING OR PROCESSING CONFERRING THE CHARACTER OF ACP ORIGIN ON A PRODUCT OBTAINED WHEN WORKING OR PROCESSING IS CARRIED OUT ON TEXTILE MATERIALS ORIGINATING IN DEVELOPING COUNTRIES REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE 6(11) OF THIS PROTOCOL Textiles and textile articles falling within Section XI %gt%TABLE%gt% Remarks concerning finishing operations - Special cases It is possible that in particular manufacturing operations, the accomplishment of finishing operations, especially in the case of a combination of operations, is of such importance that these operations must be considered as going beyond simple finishing.
Annex X to Protocol 1 TEXTILE PRODUCTS EXCLUDED FROM THE CUMULATION PROCEDURE WITH CERTAIN DEVELOPING COUNTRIES REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE 6 (11) OF THIS PROTOCOL %gt%TABLE%gt% Annex XI to Protocol 1 PRODUCTS FOR WHICH THE CUMULATION PROVISIONS WITH SOUTH AFRICA REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE 6(3) APPLY AFTER 3 YEARS FROM THE PROVISIONAL APPLICATION OF THE AGREEMENT ON TRADE, DEVELOPMENT AND COOPERATION BETWEEN THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITY AND THE REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA Industrial Products CN code 96 Salt (including table salt and denatured salt) 2501 00 51 2501 00 91 2501 00 99 Alkali or alkaline-earth metals; rare-earth metals 2805 11 00 2805 19 00 2805 21 00 2805 22 00 2805 30 10 2805 30 90 2805 40 10 Ammonia, anhydrous or in aqueous solution 2814 10 00 2814 20 00 Sodium hydroxide (caustic soda) 2815 11 00 2815 12 00 Zinc oxide; zinc peroxide 2817 00 00 Artificial corundum 2818 10 00 2818 20 00 2818 30 00 Chromium oxides and hydroxides 2819 10 00 2819 90 00 Manganese oxides 2820 10 00 2820 90 00 Titanium oxides 2823 00 00 Hydrazine and hydroxylamine 2825 80 00 Chlorides, chloride oxides and chloride hydroxides 2827 10 00 Sulphides; polysulphides 2830 10 00 Phosphinates (hypophosphites), phosphonates 2835 10 00 2835 22 00 2835 23 00 2835 24 00 2835 25 10 2835 25 90 2835 26 10 2835 26 90 2835 29 10 2835 29 90 2835 31 00 2835 39 10 2835 39 30 2835 39 70 Carbonates; peroxocarbonates (percarbonates); 2836 20 00 2836 40 00 2836 60 00 Salts of oxometallic or peroxometallic acids 2841 61 00 Radioactive chemical elements 2844 30 11 2844 30 19 2844 30 51 Isotopes other than those of heading No 2844 2845 10 00 2845 90 10 Carbides, whether or not chemically defined 2849 20 00 2849 90 30 Hydrides, nitrides, azides, silicides and borides 2850 00 70 Cyclic hydrocarbons 2902 50 00 Halogenated derivatives of hydrocarbons 2903 11 00 2903 12 00 2903 13 00 2903 14 00 2903 15 00 2903 16 00 2903 19 10 2903 19 90 2903 21 00 2903 23 00 2903 29 00 2903 30 10 2903 30 31 2903 30 33 2903 30 38 2903 30 90 2903 41 00 2903 42 00 2903 43 00 2903 44 10 2903 44 90 2903 45 10 2903 45 15 2903 45 20 2903 45 25 2903 45 30 2903 45 35 2903 45 40 2903 45 45 2903 45 50 2903 45 55 2903 45 90 2903 46 10 2903 46 20 2903 46 90 2903 47 00 2903 49 10 2903 49 20 2903 49 90 2903 51 90 2903 59 10 2903 59 30 2903 59 90 2903 61 00 2903 62 00 2903 69 10 2903 69 90 Acyclic alcohols and their halogenated, sulphonated derivatives 2905 11 00 2905 12 00 2905 13 00 2905 14 10 2905 14 90 2905 15 00 2905 16 10 2905 16 90 2905 17 00 2905 19 10 2905 19 90 2905 22 10 2905 22 90 2905 29 10 2905 29 90 2905 31 00 2905 32 00 2905 39 10 2905 39 90 2905 41 00 2905 42 00 2905 49 10 2905 49 51 2905 49 59 2905 49 90 2905 50 10 2905 50 30 2905 50 99 Phenols; phenol-alcohols 2907 11 00 2907 15 00 2907 22 10 Ethers, ether-alcohols, ether-phenols 2909 11 00 2909 19 00 2909 20 00 2909 30 31 2909 30 39 2909 30 90 2909 41 00 2909 42 00 2909 43 00 2909 44 00 2909 49 10 2909 49 90 2909 50 10 2909 50 90 2909 60 00 Epoxides, epoxyalcohols, epoxyphenols and epoxyethols 2910 20 00 Aldehydes, whether or not with other oxygen functions 2912 41 00 2912 60 00 Ketones and quinones, whether or not with other oxygen fonctions 2914 11 00 2914 21 00 Saturated acyclic monocarboxylic acids 2915 11 00 2915 12 00 2915 13 00 2915 21 00 2915 22 00 2915 23 00 2915 24 00 2915 29 00 2915 31 00 2915 32 00 2915 33 00 2915 34 00 2915 35 00 2915 39 10 2915 39 30 2915 39 50 2915 39 90 2915 40 00 2915 50 00 2915 60 10 2915 60 90 2915 70 15 2915 70 20 2915 70 25 2915 70 30 2915 70 80 2915 90 10 2915 90 20 2915 90 80 Unsaturated acyclic monocarboxylic acids 2916 12 10 2916 12 20 2916 12 90 2916 14 10 2916 14 90 Polycarboxylic acids, their anhydrides, halides 2917 11 00 2917 14 00 2917 35 00 2917 36 00 2917 37 00 Carboxylic acids with additional oxygen function 2918 14 00 2918 15 00 2918 22 00 2918 90 00 Amine-function compounds 2921 11 10 2921 11 90 2921 12 00 2921 19 10 2921 19 30 2921 19 90 2921 21 00 2921 22 00 2921 29 00 2921 30 10 2921 30 90 2921 41 00 2921 42 10 2921 42 90 2921 43 10 2921 43 90 2921 44 00 2921 45 00 2921 49 10 2921 49 90 2921 51 10 2921 51 90 2921 59 00 Oxygen-function amino-compounds 2922 11 00 2922 12 00 2922 13 00 2922 19 00 2922 21 00 2922 22 00 2922 29 00 2922 30 00 2922 42 10 2922 43 00 2922 49 80 2922 50 00 Carboxyamide-function compounds 2924 21 10 2924 21 90 2924 29 30 Nitrile-function compounds 2926 10 00 2926 90 90 Organo-sulphur compounds 2930 20 00 2930 90 12 2930 90 14 2930 90 16 Other organo-inorganic compounds 2931 00 40 Heterocyclic compounds with oxygen hetero-atom(s) 2932 12 00 2932 13 00 2932 21 00 Heterocyclic compounds with nitrogen hetero-atom(s) 2933 61 00 Sulphonamides 2935 00 00 Mineral or chemical fertilizers, nitrogenous 3102 10 10 3102 10 90 3102 21 00 3102 29 00 3102 30 10 3102 30 90 3102 40 10 3102 40 90 3102 50 90 3102 60 00 3102 70 90 3102 80 00 3102 90 00 Mineral or chemical fertilizers, phosphatic 3103 10 10 3103 10 90 Mineral or chemical fertilizers 3105 10 00 3105 20 10 3105 20 90 3105 30 10 3105 30 90 3105 40 10 3105 40 90 3105 51 00 3105 59 00 3105 60 10 3105 60 90 3105 90 91 3105 90 99 Tanning extracts of vegetable origin 3201 20 00 3201 90 20 Other colouring matter 3206 11 00 3206 19 00 3206 20 00 3206 30 00 3206 41 00 3206 42 00 3206 43 00 3206 49 90 3206 50 00 Activated carbon; activated natural mineral products 3802 10 00 3802 90 00 Insecticides, rodenticides, fungicides, herbicides 3808 10 20 3808 10 30 3808 30 11 3808 30 13 3808 30 15 3808 30 17 3808 30 21 3808 30 23 3808 30 27 3808 30 30 3808 30 90 Prepared rubber accelerators; compound plasticiser 3812 30 20 Organic composite solvents and thinners 3814 00 90 Mixed alkylbenzenes and mixed alkylnaphthalenes, 3817 10 10 3817 10 50 3817 10 80 3817 20 00 Prepared binders for foundry moulds or cores 3824 90 90 Polymers of ethylene, in primary forms 3901 10 10 3901 10 90 3901 20 00 3901 30 00 3901 90 00 Polymers of propylene or of other olefins 3902 10 00 3902 20 00 3902 30 00 3902 90 00 Polymers of styrene, in primary forms 3903 11 00 3903 19 00 3903 20 00 3903 30 00 3903 90 00 Polymers of vinyl chloride 3904 10 00 3904 21 00 3904 22 00 3904 30 00 3904 40 00 3904 50 00 3904 61 90 3904 69 00 3904 90 00 Polymers of vinyl acetate 3905 12 00 Polyacetals, other polyethers and epoxide resins 3907 20 19 3907 20 90 3907 60 90 3907 91 10 3907 91 90 3907 99 10 3907 99 90 Other plates, sheets, film, foil and strip 3920 10 22 3920 10 28 3920 10 40 3920 10 80 3920 20 21 3920 20 29 3920 20 71 3920 20 79 3920 20 90 3920 30 00 3920 41 11 3920 41 19 3920 41 91 3920 41 99 3920 42 11 3920 42 19 3920 42 91 3920 42 99 3920 51 00 3920 59 00 3920 61 00 3920 62 10 3920 62 90 3920 63 00 3920 69 00 3920 71 11 3920 71 19 3920 71 90 3920 72 00 3920 73 10 3920 73 50 3920 73 90 3920 79 00 3920 91 00 3920 92 00 3920 93 00 3920 94 00 3920 99 11 3920 99 19 3920 99 50 3920 99 90 Other plates, sheets, film, foil and strip 3921 90 19 Articles for the conveyance or packing of goods 3923 21 00 Retreaded or used pneumatic tyres of rubber 4012 10 30 4012 10 50 4012 10 80 4012 20 90 4012 90 10 4012 90 90 Inner tubes, of rubber 4013 10 10 4013 10 90 4013 20 00 4013 90 10 4013 90 90 Leather of bovine or equine animals, without hair 4104 10 91 4104 10 95 4104 10 99 4104 21 00 4104 22 90 4104 29 00 4104 31 11 4104 31 19 4104 31 30 4104 31 90 4104 39 10 4104 39 90 Sheep or lamb skin leather, without wool on 4105 20 00 Leather of other animals, without hair on 4107 10 10 4107 29 10 4107 90 10 4107 90 90 Chamois (including combination chamois) leather 4108 00 10 4108 00 90 Patent leather and patent laminated leather 4109 00 00 Composition leather with a basis of leather or leather 4111 00 00 Articles of apparel and clothing accessories 4203 10 00 4203 21 00 4203 29 10 4203 29 91 4203 29 99 4203 30 00 4203 40 00 Particle board and similar board of wood 4410 11 00 4410 19 10 4410 19 30 4410 19 50 4410 19 90 4410 90 00 Fibreboard of wood or other ligneous materials 4411 11 00 4411 19 00 4411 21 00 4411 29 00 4411 31 00 4411 39 00 4411 91 00 4411 99 00 Plywood, veneered panels and similar laminated wood 4412 13 11 4412 13 19 4412 13 90 4412 14 00 4412 19 00 4412 22 10 4412 22 91 4412 22 99 4412 23 00 4412 29 20 4412 29 80 4412 92 10 4412 92 91 4412 92 99 4412 93 00 4412 99 20 4412 99 80 Builders' joinery and carpentry of wood 4418 10 10 4418 10 50 4418 10 90 4418 20 10 4418 20 50 4418 20 80 4418 30 10 4418 90 10 Wood marquetry and inlaid wood; caskets and cases 4420 90 11 4420 90 19 Articles of natural cork 4503 10 10 4503 10 90 4503 90 00 Plaits and similar products of plaiting materials 4601 99 10 Basketwork, wickerwork and other articles 4602 90 10 Registers, account books, note books, order books 4820 10 30 Children's picture, drawing or colouring books 4903 00 00 Maps and hydrographic or similar charts of all kinds 4905 10 00 Transfers (decalcomanias) 4908 10 00 4908 90 00 Printed or illustrated postcards; printed cards 4909 00 10 4909 00 90 Calendars of any kind, printed, including calendars 4910 00 00 Other printed matter, including printed pictures 4911 10 10 4911 10 90 4911 91 80 4911 99 00 Silk yarn (other than yarn spun from silk waste) 5004 00 10 5004 00 90 Yarn spun from silk waste, not put up for retail sale 5005 00 10 5005 00 90 Silk yarn and yarn spun from silk waste, put up for retail sale 5006 00 10 5006 00 90 Woven fabrics of silk or of silk waste 5007 10 00 5007 20 11 5007 20 19 5007 20 21 5007 20 31 5007 20 39 5007 20 41 5007 20 51 5007 20 59 5007 20 61 5007 20 69 5007 20 71 5007 90 10 5007 90 30 5007 90 50 5007 90 90 Yarn of carded wool, not put up for retail sale 5106 10 10 5106 10 90 5106 20 11 5106 20 19 5106 20 91 5106 20 99 Yarn of combed wool, not put up for retail sale 5107 10 10 5107 10 90 5107 20 10 5107 20 30 5107 20 51 5107 20 59 5107 20 91 5107 20 99 Yarn of fine animal hair (carded or combed), not put up for retail sale 5108 10 10 5108 10 90 5108 20 10 5108 20 90 Yarn of wool or of fine animal hair, put up for retail sale 5109 10 10 5109 10 90 5109 90 10 5109 90 90 Yarn of coarse animal hair or of horsehair 5110 00 00 Woven fabrics of carded wool or of carded fine animal hair 5111 11 11 5111 11 19 5111 11 91 5111 11 99 5111 19 11 5111 19 19 5111 19 31 5111 19 39 5111 19 91 5111 19 99 5111 20 00 5111 30 10 5111 30 30 5111 30 90 5111 90 10 5111 90 91 5111 90 93 5111 90 99 Woven fabrics of combed wool or of combed fine animal hair 5112 11 10 5112 11 90 5112 19 11 5112 19 19 5112 19 91 5112 19 99 5112 20 00 5112 30 10 5112 30 30 5112 30 90 5112 90 10 5112 90 91 5112 90 93 5112 90 99 Woven fabrics of coarse animal hair or of horsehair 5113 00 00 Cotton sewing thread, whether or not put up for retail sale 5204 11 00 5204 19 00 5204 20 00 Cotton yarn (other than sewing thread) 5205 11 00 5205 12 00 5205 13 00 5205 14 00 5205 15 10 5205 15 90 5205 21 00 5205 22 00 5205 23 00 5205 24 00 5205 26 00 5205 27 00 5205 28 00 5205 31 00 5205 32 00 5205 33 00 5205 34 00 5205 35 10 5205 35 90 5205 41 00 5205 42 00 5205 43 00 5205 44 00 5205 46 00 5205 47 00 5205 48 00 Cotton yarn (other than sewing thread) 5206 11 00 5206 12 00 5206 13 00 5206 14 00 5206 15 10 5206 15 90 5206 21 00 5206 22 00 5206 23 00 5206 24 00 5206 25 10 5206 25 90 5206 31 00 5206 32 00 5206 33 00 5206 34 00 5206 35 10 5206 35 90 5206 41 00 5206 42 00 5206 43 00 5206 44 00 5206 45 10 5206 45 90 Cotton yarn (other than sewing thread) put up for retail sale 5207 10 00 5207 90 00 Flax yarn 5306 10 11 5306 10 19 5306 10 31 5306 10 39 5306 10 50 5306 10 90 5306 20 11 5306 20 19 5306 20 90 Yarn of other vegetable textile fibres; paper yarn 5308 20 10 5308 20 90 5308 30 00 5308 90 11 5308 90 13 5308 90 19 5308 90 90 Woven fabrics of flax 5309 11 11 5309 11 19 5309 11 90 5309 19 10 5309 19 90 5309 21 10 5309 21 90 5309 29 10 5309 29 90 Woven fabrics of jute or of other textile bast fibres 5310 10 10 5310 10 90 5310 90 00 Woven fabrics of other vegetable textile fibres 5311 00 10 5311 00 90 Sewing thread of man-made filaments 5401 10 11 5401 10 19 5401 10 90 5401 20 10 5401 20 90 Synthetic filament yarn (other than sewing thread) 5402 10 10 5402 10 90 5402 20 00 5402 31 10 5402 31 30 5402 31 90 5402 32 00 5402 33 10 5402 33 90 5402 39 10 5402 39 90 5402 41 10 5402 41 30 5402 41 90 5402 42 00 5402 43 10 5402 43 90 5402 49 10 5402 49 91 5402 49 99 5402 51 10 5402 51 30 5402 51 90 5402 52 10 5402 52 90 5402 59 10 5402 59 90 5402 61 10 5402 61 30 5402 61 90 5402 62 10 5402 62 90 5402 69 10 5402 69 90 Artificial filament yarn (other than sewing thread) 5403 10 00 5403 20 10 5403 20 90 5403 31 00 5403 32 00 5403 33 10 5403 33 90 5403 39 00 5403 41 00 5403 42 00 5403 49 00 Synthetic monofilament of 67 decitex or more 5404 10 10 5404 10 90 5404 90 11 5404 90 19 5404 90 90 Artificial monofilament of 67 decitex or more 5405 00 00 Man-made filament yarn (other than sewing thread) 5406 10 00 5406 20 00 Woven fabrics of synthetic filament yarn 5407 10 00 5407 20 11 5407 20 19 5407 20 90 5407 30 00 5407 41 00 5407 42 00 5407 43 00 5407 44 00 5407 51 00 5407 52 00 5407 53 00 5407 54 00 5407 61 10 5407 61 30 5407 61 50 5407 61 90 5407 69 10 5407 69 90 5407 71 00 5407 72 00 5407 73 00 5407 74 00 5407 81 00 5407 82 00 5407 83 00 5407 84 00 5407 91 00 5407 92 00 5407 93 00 5407 94 00 Woven fabrics of artificial filament yarn 5408 10 00 5408 21 00 5408 22 10 5408 22 90 5408 23 10 5408 23 90 5408 24 00 5408 31 00 5408 32 00 5408 33 00 5408 34 00 Synthetic filament tow 5501 10 00 5501 20 00 5501 30 00 5501 90 00 Artificial filament tow 5502 00 10 5502 00 90 Synthetic staple fibres, not carded, combed or otherwise 5503 10 11 5503 10 19 5503 10 90 5503 20 00 5503 30 00 5503 40 00 5503 90 10 5503 90 90 Artificial staple fibres, not carded, combed or otherwise 5504 10 00 5504 90 00 Waste (including noils, yarn waste) 5505 10 10 5505 10 30 5505 10 50 5505 10 70 5505 10 90 5505 20 00 Synthetic staple fibres, carded, combed or otherwise 5506 10 00 5506 20 00 5506 30 00 5506 90 10 5506 90 91 5506 90 99 Artificial staple fibres, carded, combed or otherwise 5507 00 00 Sewing thread of man-made staple fibres 5508 10 11 5508 10 19 5508 10 90 5508 20 10 5508 20 90 Yarn (other than sewing thread) of synthetic staple fibres 5509 11 00 5509 12 00 5509 21 10 5509 21 90 5509 22 10 5509 22 90 5509 31 10 5509 31 90 5509 32 10 5509 32 90 5509 41 10 5509 41 90 5509 42 10 5509 42 90 5509 51 00 5509 52 10 5509 52 90 5509 53 00 5509 59 00 5509 61 10 5509 61 90 5509 62 00 5509 69 00 5509 91 10 5509 91 90 5509 92 00 5509 99 00 Yarn (other than sewing thread) of artificial staple fibres 5510 11 00 5510 12 00 5510 20 00 5510 30 00 5510 90 00 Yarn (other than sewing thread) of man-made staple fibres 5511 10 00 5511 20 00 5511 30 00 Wadding of textile materials and articles thereof 5601 10 10 5601 10 90 5601 21 10 5601 21 90 5601 22 10 5601 22 91 5601 22 99 5601 29 00 5601 30 00 Felt, whether or not impregnated 5602 10 11 5602 10 19 5602 10 31 5602 10 35 5602 10 39 5602 10 90 5602 21 00 5602 29 10 5602 29 90 5602 90 00 Nonwovens, whether or not impregnated 5603 11 10 5603 11 90 5603 12 10 5603 12 90 5603 13 10 5603 13 90 5603 14 10 5603 14 90 5603 91 10 5603 91 90 5603 92 10 5603 92 90 5603 93 10 5603 93 90 5603 94 10 5603 94 90 Rubber thread and cord, textile covered 5604 10 00 5604 20 00 5604 90 00 Metallised yarn, whether or not gimped 5605 00 00 Gimped yarn, and strip 5606 00 10 5606 00 91 5606 00 99 Articles of yarn, strip 5609 00 00 Carpets and other textile floor coverings 5701 10 10 5701 10 91 5701 10 93 5701 10 99 5701 90 10 5701 90 90 Woven pile fabrics and chenille fabrics 5801 10 00 5801 21 00 5801 22 00 5801 23 00 5801 24 00 5801 25 00 5801 26 00 5801 31 00 5801 32 00 5801 33 00 5801 34 00 5801 35 00 5801 36 00 5801 90 10 5801 90 90 Terry towelling and similar woven terry fabrics 5802 11 00 5802 19 00 5802 20 00 5802 30 00 Gauze, other than narrow fabrics 5803 10 00 5803 90 10 5803 90 30 5803 90 50 5803 90 90 Tulles and other net fabrics, not including woven 5804 10 11 5804 10 19 5804 10 90 5804 21 10 5804 21 90 5804 29 10 5804 29 90 5804 30 00 Hand-woven tapestries of the type Gobelins 5805 00 00 Narrow woven fabrics 5806 10 00 5806 20 00 5806 31 10 5806 31 90 5806 32 10 5806 32 90 5806 39 00 5806 40 00 Labels, badges and similar articles of textile matter 5807 10 10 5807 10 90 5807 90 10 5807 90 90 Braids in the piece; ornamental trimmings 5808 10 00 5808 90 00 Woven fabrics of metal thread and woven fabrics 5809 00 00 Embroidery in the piece, in strips or in motifs 5810 10 10 5810 10 90 5810 91 10 5810 91 90 5810 92 10 5810 92 90 5810 99 10 5810 99 90 Quilted textile products in the piece 5811 00 00 Textile fabrics coated with gum 5901 10 00 5901 90 00 Tyre cord fabric of high tenacity yarn of nylon 5902 10 10 5902 10 90 5902 20 10 5902 20 90 5902 90 10 5902 90 90 Textile fabrics impregnated, coated, covered 5903 10 10 5903 10 90 5903 20 10 5903 20 90 5903 90 10 5903 90 91 5903 90 99 Linoleum, whether or not cut to shape 5904 10 00 5904 91 10 5904 91 90 5904 92 00 Textile wall coverings 5905 00 10 5905 00 31 5905 00 39 5905 00 50 5905 00 70 5905 00 90 Rubberized textile fabrics 5906 10 10 5906 10 90 5906 91 00 5906 99 10 5906 99 90 Textile fabrics otherwise impregnated, coated or covered 5907 00 10 5907 00 90 Textile wicks, woven, plaited or knitted 5908 00 00 Textile hosepiping and similar textile tubing 5909 00 10 5909 00 90 Transmission or conveyor belts or belting 5910 00 00 Textile products and articles, for technical uses 5911 10 00 5911 20 00 5911 31 11 5911 31 19 5911 31 90 5911 32 10 5911 32 90 5911 40 00 5911 90 10 5911 90 90 Pile fabrics, including %quot%long pile%quot% fabrics 6001 10 00 6001 21 00 6001 22 00 6001 29 10 6001 29 90 6001 91 10 6001 91 30 6001 91 50 6001 91 90 6001 92 10 6001 92 30 6001 92 50 6001 92 90 6001 99 10 6001 99 90 Men's or boys' overcoats, car-coats, capes, cloaks 6101 10 10 6101 10 90 6101 20 10 6101 20 90 6101 30 10 6101 30 90 6101 90 10 6101 90 90 Women's or girls' overcoats, car-coats, capes, cloaks 6102 10 10 6102 10 90 6102 20 10 6102 20 90 6102 30 10 6102 30 90 6102 90 10 6102 90 90 Men's or boys' suits, ensembles, jackets, blazers 6103 41 10 6103 41 90 6103 42 10 6103 42 90 6103 43 10 6103 43 90 6103 49 10 6103 49 91 6103 49 99 Women's or girls' suits, ensembles, jackets, blazers 6104 51 00 6104 52 00 6104 53 00 6104 59 00 6104 61 10 6104 61 90 6104 62 10 6104 62 90 6104 63 10 6104 63 90 6104 69 10 6104 69 91 6104 69 99 Men's or boys' underpants, briefs, nightshirts, pyjamas 6107 11 00 6107 12 00 6107 19 00 6107 21 00 6107 22 00 6107 29 00 6107 91 10 6107 91 90 6107 92 00 6107 99 00 Women's or girls' slips, petticoats, briefs, panties 6108 11 10 6108 11 90 6108 19 10 6108 19 90 6108 21 00 6108 22 00 6108 29 00 6108 31 10 6108 31 90 6108 32 11 6108 32 19 6108 32 90 6108 39 00 6108 91 10 6108 91 90 6108 92 00 6108 99 10 6108 99 90 T-shirts, singlets and other vests, knitted or crocheted 6109 10 00 6109 90 10 6109 90 30 Track suits, ski suits and swimwear, knitted or crocheted 6112 11 00 6112 12 00 6112 19 00 6112 20 00 6112 31 10 6112 31 90 6112 39 10 6112 39 90 6112 41 10 6112 41 90 6112 49 10 6112 49 90 Garments, made up of knitted or crocheted fabrics 6113 00 10 6113 00 90 Other garments, knitted or crocheted 6114 10 00 6114 20 00 6114 30 00 6114 90 00 Panty hose, tights, stockings, socks and other hosiery 6115 11 00 6115 12 00 6115 19 10 6115 19 90 6115 20 11 6115 20 19 6115 20 90 6115 91 00 6115 92 00 6115 93 10 6115 93 30 6115 93 91 6115 93 99 6115 99 00 Gloves, mittens and mitts, knitted or crocheted 6116 10 20 6116 10 80 6116 91 00 6116 92 00 6116 93 00 6116 99 00 Other made up clothing accessories, knitted or crocheted 6117 10 00 6117 20 00 6117 80 10 6117 80 90 6117 90 00 Men's or boys' overcoats, car-coats, capes, cloaks 6201 11 00 6201 12 10 6201 12 90 6201 13 10 6201 13 90 6201 19 00 6201 91 00 6201 92 00 6201 93 00 6201 99 00 Women's or girls' overcoats, car-coats, capes, cloaks 6202 11 00 6202 12 10 6202 12 90 6202 13 10 6202 13 90 6202 19 00 6202 91 00 6202 92 00 6202 93 00 6202 99 00 Men's or boys' suits, ensembles, jackets, blazers 6203 41 10 6203 41 30 6203 41 90 6203 42 11 6203 42 31 6203 42 33 6203 42 35 6203 42 51 6203 42 59 6203 42 90 6203 43 11 6203 43 19 6203 43 31 6203 43 39 6203 43 90 6203 49 11 6203 49 19 6203 49 31 6203 49 39 6203 49 50 6203 49 90 Women's or girls' suits, ensembles, jackets, blazers 6204 51 00 6204 52 00 6204 53 00 6204 59 10 6204 59 90 6204 61 10 6204 61 80 6204 61 90 6204 62 11 6204 62 31 6204 62 33 6204 62 39 6204 62 51 6204 62 59 6204 62 90 6204 63 11 6204 63 18 6204 63 31 6204 63 39 6204 63 90 6204 69 11 6204 69 18 6204 69 31 6204 69 39 6204 69 50 6204 69 90 Men's or boys' shirts 6205 10 00 6205 20 00 6205 30 00 6205 90 10 6205 90 90 Men's or boys' singlets and other vests, underpants 6207 11 00 6207 19 00 6207 21 00 6207 22 00 6207 29 00 6207 91 10 6207 91 90 6207 92 00 6207 99 00 Women's or girls' singlets and other vests, slips 6208 11 00 6208 19 10 6208 19 90 6208 21 00 6208 22 00 6208 29 00 6208 91 11 6208 91 19 6208 91 90 6208 92 10 6208 92 90 6208 99 00 Brassires, girdles, corsets, braces, suspenders 6212 10 00 6212 20 00 6212 30 00 6212 90 00 Handkerchiefs 6213 10 00 6213 20 00 6213 90 00 Shawls, scarves, mufflers, mantillas, veils 6214 10 00 6214 20 00 6214 30 00 6214 40 00 6214 90 10 6214 90 90 Ties, bow ties and cravats 6215 10 00 6215 20 00 6215 90 00 Gloves, mittens and mitts 6216 00 00 Other made up clothing accessories 6217 10 00 6217 90 00 Blankets and travelling rugs 6301 10 00 6301 20 10 6301 20 91 6301 20 99 6301 30 10 6301 30 90 6301 40 10 6301 40 90 6301 90 10 6301 90 90 Sacks and bags 6305 10 10 6305 10 90 6305 20 00 6305 32 11 6305 32 81 6305 32 89 6305 32 90 6305 33 10 6305 33 91 6305 33 99 6305 39 00 6305 90 00 Tarpaulins, awnings and sunblinds; tents; sails 6306 11 00 6306 12 00 6306 19 00 6306 21 00 6306 22 00 6306 29 00 6306 31 00 6306 39 00 6306 41 00 6306 49 00 6306 91 00 6306 99 00 Other made up articles, including dress patterns 6307 10 10 6307 10 30 6307 10 90 6307 20 00 6307 90 10 6307 90 91 6307 90 99 Sets consisting of woven fabric and yarn 6308 00 00 Worn clothing and other worn articles 6309 00 00 Waterproof footwear with outer soles and uppers of rubber 6401 10 10 6401 10 90 6401 91 10 6401 91 90 6401 92 10 6401 92 90 6401 99 10 6401 99 90 Other footwear with outer soles and uppers of rubber 6402 12 10 6402 12 90 6402 19 00 6402 20 00 6402 30 00 6402 91 00 6402 99 10 6402 99 31 6402 99 39 6402 99 50 6402 99 91 6402 99 93 6402 99 96 6402 99 98 Footwear with outer soles of rubber, plastics, leather 6403 12 00 6403 19 00 6403 20 00 6403 30 00 6403 40 00 6403 51 11 6403 51 15 6403 51 19 6403 51 91 6403 51 95 6403 51 99 6403 59 11 6403 59 31 6403 59 35 6403 59 39 6403 59 50 6403 59 91 6403 59 95 6403 59 99 6403 91 11 6403 91 13 6403 91 16 6403 91 18 6403 91 91 6403 91 93 6403 91 96 6403 91 98 6403 99 11 6403 99 31 6403 99 33 6403 99 36 6403 99 38 6403 99 50 6403 99 91 6403 99 93 6403 99 96 6403 99 98 Footwear with outer soles of rubber, plastics, leather 6404 11 00 6404 19 10 6404 19 90 6404 20 10 6404 20 90 Other footwear 6405 10 10 6405 10 90 6405 20 10 6405 20 91 6405 20 99 6405 90 10 6405 90 90 Parts of footwear (including uppers) 6406 10 11 6406 10 19 6406 10 90 6406 20 10 6406 20 90 6406 91 00 6406 99 10 6406 99 30 6406 99 50 6406 99 60 6406 99 80 Unglazed ceramic flags and paving, hearth or wall tiles 6907 10 00 6907 90 10 6907 90 91 6907 90 93 6907 90 99 Glazed ceramic flags and paving, hearth or wall tiles 6908 10 10 6908 10 90 6908 90 11 6908 90 21 6908 90 29 6908 90 31 6908 90 51 6908 90 91 6908 90 93 6908 90 99 Tableware, kitchenware, other household articles 6911 10 00 6911 90 00 Ceramic tableware, kitchenware, other household articles 6912 00 10 6912 00 30 6912 00 50 6912 00 90 Statuettes and other ornamental ceramic articles 6913 10 00 6913 90 10 6913 90 91 6913 90 93 6913 90 99 Glassware of a kind used for table, kitchen 7013 10 00 7013 21 11 7013 21 19 7013 21 91 7013 21 99 7013 29 10 7013 29 51 7013 29 59 7013 29 91 7013 29 99 7013 31 10 7013 31 90 7013 32 00 7013 39 10 7013 39 91 7013 39 99 7013 91 10 7013 91 90 7013 99 10 7013 99 90 Glass fibres (including glass wool) 7019 11 00 7019 12 00 7019 19 10 7019 19 90 7019 31 00 7019 32 00 7019 39 10 7019 39 90 7019 40 00 7019 51 10 7019 51 90 7019 52 00 7019 59 10 7019 59 90 7019 90 10 7019 90 30 7019 90 91 7019 90 99 Other articles of precious metal 7115 90 10 7115 90 90 Ferro-alloys 7202 50 00 7202 70 00 7202 91 00 7202 92 00 7202 99 30 7202 99 80 Copper bars, rods and profiles 7407 10 00 7407 21 10 7407 21 90 7407 22 10 7407 22 90 7407 29 00 Copper wire 7408 11 00 7408 19 10 7408 19 90 7408 21 00 7408 22 00 7408 29 00 Copper plates, sheets and strip 7409 11 00 7409 19 00 7409 21 00 7409 29 00 7409 31 00 7409 39 00 7409 40 10 7409 40 90 7409 90 10 7409 90 90 Copper foil (whether or not printed or backed with) 7410 11 00 7410 12 00 7410 21 00 7410 22 00 Copper tubes and pipes 7411 10 11 7411 10 19 7411 10 90 7411 21 10 7411 21 90 7411 22 00 7411 29 10 7411 29 90 Copper tube or pipe fittings 7412 10 00 7412 20 00 Stranded wire, cables, plaited bands and the like 7413 00 91 7413 00 99 Cloth (including endless bands), grill and netting 7414 20 00 7414 90 00 Nails, tacks, drawing pins, staples 7415 10 00 7415 21 00 7415 29 00 7415 31 00 7415 32 00 7415 39 00 Copper springs 7416 00 00 Cooking or heating apparatus 7417 00 00 Table, kitchen or other household articles 7418 11 00 7418 19 00 7418 20 00 Other articles of copper 7419 10 00 7419 91 00 7419 99 00 Aluminium bars, rods and profiles 7604 10 10 7604 10 90 7604 21 00 7604 29 10 7604 29 90 Aluminium wire 7605 11 00 7605 19 00 7605 21 00 7605 29 00 Aluminium plates, sheets and strip 7606 11 10 7606 11 91 7606 11 93 7606 11 99 7606 12 10 7606 12 50 7606 12 91 7606 12 93 7606 12 99 7606 91 00 7606 92 00 Aluminium foil 7607 11 10 7607 11 90 7607 19 10 7607 19 91 7607 19 99 7607 20 10 7607 20 91 7607 20 99 Aluminium tubes and pipes 7608 10 90 7608 20 30 7608 20 91 7608 20 99 Aluminium tube or pipe fittings 7609 00 00 Aluminium structures 7610 10 00 7610 90 10 7610 90 90 Aluminium reservoirs, tanks, vats 7611 00 00 Aluminium casks, drums, cans, boxes 7612 10 00 7612 90 10 7612 90 20 7612 90 91 7612 90 98 Aluminium containers for compressed or liquefied 7613 00 00 Stranded wire, cables, plaited bands and the like 7614 10 00 7614 90 00 Table, kitchen or other household articles 7615 11 00 7615 19 10 7615 19 90 7615 20 00 Other articles of aluminium 7616 10 00 7616 91 00 7616 99 10 7616 99 90 Unwrought lead 7801 10 00 7801 91 00 7801 99 91 7801 99 99 Tungsten (wolfram) and articles thereof, including waste 8101 10 00 8101 91 10 Molybdenum and articles thereof, including waste 8102 10 00 8102 91 10 8102 93 00 Magnesium and articles thereof, including waste 8104 11 00 8104 19 00 Cadmium and articles thereof, including waste 8107 10 10 Titanium and articles thereof, including waste 8108 10 10 8108 10 90 8108 90 30 8108 90 50 8108 90 70 8108 90 90 Zirconium and articles thereof, including waste 8109 10 10 8109 90 00 Antimony and articles thereof, including waste 8110 00 11 8110 00 19 Beryllium, chromium, germanium, vanadium, gallium 8112 20 31 8112 30 20 8112 30 90 8112 91 10 8112 91 31 8112 99 30 Cermets and articles thereof, including waste 8113 00 20 8113 00 40 Nuclear reactors; fuel elements (cartridges) 8401 10 00 8401 20 00 8401 30 00 8401 40 10 8401 40 90 Hydraulic turbines, water wheels, and regulators 8410 11 00 8410 12 00 8410 13 00 8410 90 10 8410 90 90 Turbo-jets, turbo-propellers and other gas turbines 8411 11 90 8411 12 90 8411 21 90 8411 22 90 8411 81 90 8411 82 91 8411 82 93 8411 82 99 8411 91 90 8411 99 90 Air or vacuum pumps, air or other gas compressors 8414 10 30 8414 10 50 8414 10 90 8414 20 91 8414 20 99 8414 30 30 8414 30 91 8414 30 99 8414 40 10 8414 40 90 8414 51 90 8414 59 30 8414 59 50 8414 59 90 8414 60 00 8414 80 21 8414 80 29 8414 80 31 8414 80 39 8414 80 41 8414 80 49 8414 80 60 8414 80 71 8414 80 79 8414 80 90 8414 90 90 Fork-lift trucks; other works trucks 8427 10 10 8427 10 90 8427 20 11 8427 20 19 8427 20 90 8427 90 00 Sewing machines, other than book-sewing machines 8452 10 11 8452 10 19 8452 10 90 8452 21 00 8452 29 00 8452 30 10 8452 30 90 8452 40 00 8452 90 00 Electro-mechanical domestic appliances 8509 10 10 8509 10 90 8509 20 00 8509 30 00 8509 40 00 8509 80 00 8509 90 10 8509 90 90 Electric instantaneous or storage water heaters 8516 29 91 8516 31 10 8516 31 90 8516 40 10 8516 40 90 8516 50 00 8516 60 70 8516 71 00 8516 72 00 8516 79 80 Turntables (record-decks), record-players, cassette-players 8519 10 00 8519 21 00 8519 29 00 8519 31 00 8519 39 00 8519 40 00 8519 93 31 8519 93 39 8519 93 81 8519 93 89 8519 99 12 8519 99 18 8519 99 90 Magnetic tape recorders and other sound recording 8520 10 00 8520 32 19 8520 32 50 8520 32 91 8520 32 99 8520 33 19 8520 33 90 8520 39 10 8520 39 90 8520 90 90 Video recording or reproducing apparatus 8521 10 30 8521 10 80 8521 90 00 Parts and accessories 8522 10 00 8522 90 30 8522 90 91 8522 90 98 Prepared unrecorded media for sound recording 8523 30 00 Records, tapes and other recorded media 8524 10 00 8524 32 00 8524 39 00 8524 51 00 8524 52 00 8524 53 00 8524 60 00 8524 99 00 Reception apparatus for radio-telephony 8527 12 10 8527 12 90 8527 13 10 8527 13 91 8527 13 99 8527 21 20 8527 21 52 8527 21 59 8527 21 70 8527 21 92 8527 21 98 8527 29 00 8527 31 11 8527 31 19 8527 31 91 8527 31 93 8527 31 98 8527 32 90 8527 39 10 8527 39 91 8527 39 99 8527 90 91 8527 90 99 Reception apparatus for television 8528 12 14 8528 12 16 8528 12 18 8528 12 22 8528 12 28 8528 12 52 8528 12 54 8528 12 56 8528 12 58 8528 12 62 8528 12 66 8528 12 72 8528 12 76 8528 12 81 8528 12 89 8528 12 91 8528 12 98 8528 13 00 8528 21 14 8528 21 16 8528 21 18 8528 21 90 8528 22 00 8528 30 10 8528 30 90 Parts suitable for use solely or principally with 8529 10 20 8529 10 31 8529 10 39 8529 10 40 8529 10 50 8529 10 70 8529 10 90 8529 90 51 8529 90 59 8529 90 70 8529 90 81 8529 90 89 Electric sound or visual signalling apparatus 8531 10 20 8531 10 30 8531 10 80 8531 80 90 8531 90 90 Thermionic, cold cathode or photocathode valves 8540 11 11 8540 11 13 8540 11 15 8540 11 19 8540 11 91 8540 11 99 8540 12 00 8540 20 10 8540 20 30 8540 20 90 8540 40 00 8540 50 00 8540 60 00 8540 71 00 8540 72 00 8540 79 00 8540 81 00 8540 89 11 8540 89 19 8540 89 90 8540 91 00 8540 99 00 Electronic integrated circuits and microassemblies 8542 14 25 Insulated (including enamelled or anodised) wire 8544 11 10 8544 11 90 8544 19 10 8544 19 90 8544 20 00 8544 30 90 8544 41 10 8544 41 90 8544 49 20 8544 49 80 8544 51 00 8544 59 10 8544 59 20 8544 59 80 8544 60 10 8544 60 90 8544 70 00 Motor vehicles for the transport of ten or more persons 8702 10 91 8702 10 99 8702 90 31 8702 90 39 8702 90 90 Motor vehicles for the transport of goods 8704 10 11 8704 10 19 8704 10 90 8704 21 10 8704 21 91 8704 21 99 8704 22 10 8704 23 10 8704 31 10 8704 31 91 8704 31 99 8704 32 10 8704 90 00 Special purpose motor vehicles 8705 10 00 8705 20 00 8705 30 00 8705 40 00 8705 90 10 8705 90 30 8705 90 90 Works trucks, self-propelled, not fitted with lift 8709 11 10 8709 11 90 8709 19 10 8709 19 90 8709 90 10 8709 90 90 Motor-cycles (including mopeds) 8711 10 00 8711 20 10 8711 20 91 8711 20 93 8711 20 98 8711 30 10 8711 30 90 8711 40 00 8711 50 00 8711 90 00 Bicycles and other cycles 8712 00 10 8712 00 30 8712 00 80 Photocopying apparatus 9009 11 00 9009 12 00 9009 21 00 9009 22 10 9009 22 90 9009 30 00 9009 90 10 9009 90 90 Liquid crystal devices 9013 10 00 9013 20 00 9013 80 11 9013 80 19 9013 80 30 9013 80 90 9013 90 10 9013 90 90 Wrist-watches, pocket-watches and other watches 9101 11 00 9101 12 00 9101 19 00 9101 21 00 9101 29 00 9101 91 00 9101 99 00 Wrist-watches, pocket-watches and other watches 9102 11 00 9102 12 00 9102 19 00 9102 21 00 9102 29 00 9102 91 00 9102 99 00 Clocks with watch movements 9103 10 00 9103 90 00 Other clocks 9105 11 00 9105 19 00 9105 21 00 9105 29 00 9105 91 00 9105 99 10 9105 99 90 Pianos, including automatic pianos; harpsichords 9201 10 10 9201 10 90 9201 20 00 9201 90 00 Revolvers and pistols 9302 00 10 9302 00 90 Other firearms and similar devices 9303 10 00 9303 20 30 9303 20 80 9303 30 00 9303 90 00 Other arms (for example, spring, air or gas guns) 9304 00 00 Parts and accessories of articles of Nos 9 9305 10 00 9305 21 00 9305 29 10 9305 29 30 9305 29 80 9305 90 90 Bombs, grenades, torpedoes, mines, missiles 9306 10 00 9306 21 00 9306 29 40 9306 29 70 9306 30 10 9306 30 91 9306 30 93 9306 30 98 9306 90 90 Seats (other than those of heading No 9402) 9401 20 00 9401 90 10 9401 90 30 9401 90 80 Other furniture and parts thereof 9403 40 10 9403 40 90 9403 90 10 9403 90 30 9403 90 90 Mattress supports; articles of bedding 9404 10 00 9404 21 10 9404 21 90 9404 29 10 9404 29 90 9404 30 10 9404 30 90 9404 90 10 9404 90 90 Lamps and lighting fittings including searchlights 9405 10 21 9405 10 29 9405 10 30 9405 10 50 9405 10 91 9405 10 99 9405 20 11 9405 20 19 9405 20 30 9405 20 50 9405 20 91 9405 20 99 9405 30 00 9405 40 10 9405 40 31 9405 40 35 9405 40 39 9405 40 91 9405 40 95 9405 40 99 9405 50 00 9405 60 91 9405 60 99 9405 91 11 9405 91 19 9405 91 90 9405 92 90 9405 99 90 Prefabricated buildings 9406 00 10 9406 00 31 9406 00 39 9406 00 90 Other toys; reduced-size (%quot%scale%quot%) models 9503 10 10 9503 10 90 9503 20 10 9503 20 90 9503 30 10 9503 30 30 9503 30 90 9503 41 00 9503 49 10 9503 49 30 9503 49 90 9503 50 00 9503 60 10 9503 60 90 9503 70 00 9503 80 10 9503 80 90 9503 90 10 9503 90 32 9503 90 34 9503 90 35 9503 90 37 9503 90 51 9503 90 55 9503 90 99 Brooms, brushes 9603 10 00 9603 21 00 9603 29 10 9603 29 30 9603 29 90 9603 30 10 9603 30 90 9603 40 10 9603 40 90 9603 50 00 9603 90 10 9603 90 91 9603 90 99 Agricultural Products CN code 96 Live horses, asses, mules and hinnies 0101 19 90 0101 20 90 Other live animals 0106 00 20 Edible offal of bovine animals, swine, sheep, goat 0206 30 21 0206 41 91 0206 80 91 0206 90 91 Meat and edible offal 0207 13 91 0207 14 91 0207 26 91 0207 27 91 0207 35 91 0207 36 89 Other meat and edible meat offal, fresh, chilled 0208 10 11 0208 10 19 0208 90 10 0208 90 50 0208 90 60 0208 90 80 Meat and edible meat offal, salted, in brine, drie 0210 90 10 0210 90 60 0210 90 79 0210 90 80 Birds' eggs, in shell, fresh, preserved or cooked 0407 00 90 Edible products of animal origin, not elsewhere sp 0410 00 00 Bulbs, tubers, tuberous roots, corms, crowns 0601 20 30 0601 20 90 Other live plants (including their roots), cutting 0602 20 90 0602 30 00 0602 40 10 0602 40 90 0602 90 10 0602 90 30 0602 90 41 0602 90 45 0602 90 49 0602 90 51 0602 90 59 0602 90 70 0602 90 91 0602 90 99 Foliage, branches and other parts of plants 0604 91 21 0604 91 29 0604 91 49 0604 99 90 Potatoes, fresh or chilled 0701 90 59 0701 90 90 Onions, shallots, garlic, leeks 0703 20 00 Other vegetables, fresh or chilled 0709 10 40 0709 51 30 0709 52 00 0709 60 99 0709 90 31 0709 90 71 0709 90 73 Vegetables (uncooked or cooked by steaming or boiling 0710 80 59 Vegetables provisionally preserved 0711 90 10 Dried vegetables, whole, cut, sliced, broken 0712 90 05 Other nuts, fresh or dried, whether or not shelled 0802 12 90 Dates, figs, pineapples, avocados, guavas, mangoes 0804 10 00 Citrus fruit, fresh or dried 0805 40 95 Grapes, fresh or dried 0806 20 91 0806 20 92 0806 20 98 Apricots, cherries, peaches (including nectarines) 0809 40 10 0809 40 90 Other fruit, fresh 0810 40 50 Fruit and nuts, uncooked or cooked by steaming 0811 20 19 0811 20 51 0811 20 90 0811 90 31 0811 90 50 0811 90 85 Fruit and nuts, provisionally preserved 0812 90 40 Fruit, dried 0813 10 00 0813 30 00 0813 40 30 0813 40 95 Coffee, whether or not roasted or decaffeinated 0901 12 00 0901 21 00 0901 22 00 0901 90 90 Cloves (whole fruit, cloves and stems) 0907 00 00 Ginger, saffron, turmeric (curcuma), thyme, bay leaf 0910 40 13 0910 40 19 0910 40 90 0910 91 90 0910 99 99 Seeds, fruit and spores, of a kind used for sowing 1209 11 00 1209 19 00 Locust beans, seaweeds and other algae, sugar beet 1212 92 00 Pig fat (including lard) and poultry fat 1501 00 90 Lard stearin, lard oil, oleostearin, oleo-oil 1503 00 90 Ground-nut oil and its fractions, whether or not refined 1508 10 90 1508 90 90 Palm oil and its fractions, whether or not refined 1511 90 11 1511 90 19 1511 90 99 Coconut (copra), palm kernel or babassu oil 1513 11 91 1513 11 99 1513 19 11 1513 19 19 1513 19 91 1513 19 99 1513 21 30 1513 21 90 1513 29 11 1513 29 19 1513 29 50 1513 29 91 1513 29 99 Other fixed vegetable fats and oils 1515 19 90 1515 21 90 1515 29 90 1515 50 19 1515 50 99 1515 90 29 1515 90 39 1515 90 51 1515 90 59 1515 90 91 1515 90 99 Animal or vegetable fats and oils 1516 10 10 1516 10 90 1516 20 91 1516 20 96 1516 20 98 Margarine; edible mixtures 1517 10 90 1517 90 91 1517 90 99 Animal or vegetable fats and oils 1518 00 10 1518 00 91 1518 00 99 Sausages and similar products, of meat, meat offal 1601 00 10 Extracts and juices of meat, fish or crustaceans 1603 00 10 Molasses 1703 10 00 1703 90 00 Cocoa paste, whether or not defatted 1803 10 00 1803 20 00 Cocoa butter, fat and oil 1804 00 00 Cocoa powder, not containing added sugar or other 1805 00 00 Vegetables, fruit, nuts and other edible parts 2001 90 60 2001 90 70 2001 90 75 2001 90 85 2001 90 91 Other vegetables prepared or preserved otherwise 2004 90 30 Other vegetables prepared or preserved otherwise 2005 70 10 2005 70 90 2005 90 10 2005 90 30 2005 90 50 2005 90 60 2005 90 70 2005 90 75 2005 90 80 Vegetables, fruit, nuts, fruit-peel and other parts 2006 00 91 Fruit, nuts and other edible parts of plants 2008 11 10 2008 11 92 2008 11 96 2008 19 11 2008 19 13 2008 19 51 2008 19 93 2008 30 71 2008 91 00 2008 92 12 2008 92 14 2008 92 32 2008 92 34 2008 92 36 2008 92 38 2008 99 11 2008 99 19 2008 99 38 2008 99 40 2008 99 47 Fruit juices (including grape must) 2009 80 36 2009 80 38 2009 80 88 2009 80 89 2009 80 95 2009 80 96 Yeasts (active or inactive) 2102 30 00 Sauces and preparations therefor 2103 10 00 2103 30 90 2103 90 90 Soups and broths and preparations therefor 2104 10 10 2104 10 90 2104 20 00 Food preparations not elsewhere specified 2106 90 92 Waters, including mineral waters and aerated water 2202 10 00 2202 90 10 Other fermented beverages (for example, cider) 2206 00 31 2206 00 39 2206 00 51 2206 00 59 2206 00 81 2206 00 89 Undenatured ethyl alcohol of an alcoholic strength 2208 50 11 2208 50 19 2208 50 91 2208 50 99 2208 60 11 2208 60 91 2208 60 99 2208 70 10 2208 70 90 2208 90 11 2208 90 19 2208 90 57 2208 90 69 2208 90 74 2208 90 78 Preparations of a kind used in animal feeding 2309 10 90 2309 90 91 2309 90 93 2309 90 98 Unmanufactured tobacco; tobacco refuse 2401 10 30 2401 10 50 2401 10 70 2401 10 80 2401 10 90 2401 20 30 2401 20 49 2401 20 50 2401 20 80 2401 20 90 2401 30 00 Cigars, cheroots, cigarillos and cigarettes 2402 10 00 2402 20 10 2402 20 90 2402 90 00 Other manufactured tobacco and manufactured tobacco 2403 10 10 2403 10 90 2403 91 00 2403 99 10 2403 99 90 Casein, caseinates and other casein derivatives 3501 10 90 3501 90 10 3501 90 90 Albumins 3502 90 70 Industrial monocarboxylic fatty acids; acid oils 3823 12 00 3823 70 00 Annex XII to Protocol 1 PRODUCTS FOR WHICH THE CUMULATION PROVISIONS WITH SOUTH AFRICA REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE 6(3) APPLY AFTER 6 YEARS FROM THE PROVISIONAL APPLICATION OF THE AGREEMENT ON TRADE, DEVELOPMENT AND COOPERATION BETWEEN THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITY AND THE REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA Industrial Products (1) CN code 96 Woven fabrics of cotton, containing 85 % or more 5208 11 10 5208 11 90 5208 12 11 5208 12 13 5208 12 15 5208 12 19 5208 12 91 5208 12 93 5208 12 95 5208 12 99 5208 13 00 5208 19 00 5208 21 10 5208 21 90 5208 22 11 5208 22 13 5208 22 15 5208 22 19 5208 22 91 5208 22 93 5208 22 95 5208 22 99 5208 23 00 5208 29 00 5208 31 00 5208 32 11 5208 32 13 5208 32 15 5208 32 19 5208 32 91 5208 32 93 5208 32 95 5208 32 99 5208 33 00 5208 39 00 5208 41 00 5208 42 00 5208 43 00 5208 49 00 5208 51 00 5208 52 10 5208 52 90 5208 53 00 5208 59 00 Woven fabrics of cotton, containing 85 % or more 5209 11 00 5209 12 00 5209 19 00 5209 21 00 5209 22 00 5209 29 00 5209 31 00 5209 32 00 5209 39 00 5209 41 00 5209 42 00 5209 43 00 5209 49 10 5209 49 90 5209 51 00 5209 52 00 5209 59 00 Woven fabrics of cotton, containing less than 85 % 5210 11 10 5210 11 90 5210 12 00 5210 19 00 5210 21 10 5210 21 90 5210 22 00 5210 29 00 5210 31 10 5210 31 90 5210 32 00 5210 39 00 5210 41 00 5210 42 00 5210 49 00 5210 51 00 5210 52 00 5210 59 00 Woven fabrics of cotton, containing less than 85 % 5211 11 00 5211 12 00 5211 19 00 5211 21 00 5211 22 00 5211 29 00 5211 31 00 5211 32 00 5211 39 00 5211 41 00 5211 42 00 5211 43 00 5211 49 10 5211 49 90 5211 51 00 5211 52 00 5211 59 00 Other woven fabrics of cotton 5212 11 10 5212 11 90 5212 12 10 5212 12 90 5212 13 10 5212 13 90 5212 14 10 5212 14 90 5212 15 10 5212 15 90 5212 21 10 5212 21 90 5212 22 10 5212 22 90 5212 23 10 5212 23 90 5212 24 10 5212 24 90 5212 25 10 5212 25 90 Woven fabrics of synthetic staple fibres 5512 11 00 5512 19 10 5512 19 90 5512 21 00 5512 29 10 5512 29 90 5512 91 00 5512 99 10 5512 99 90 Woven fabrics of synthetic staple fibres 5513 11 10 5513 11 30 5513 11 90 5513 12 00 5513 13 00 5513 19 00 5513 21 10 5513 21 30 5513 21 90 5513 22 00 5513 23 00 5513 29 00 5513 31 00 5513 32 00 5513 33 00 5513 39 00 5513 41 00 5513 42 00 5513 43 00 5513 49 00 Woven fabrics of synthetic staple fibres 5514 11 00 5514 12 00 5514 13 00 5514 19 00 5514 21 00 5514 22 00 5514 23 00 5514 29 00 5514 31 00 5514 32 00 5514 33 00 5514 39 00 5514 41 00 5514 42 00 5514 43 00 5514 49 00 Other woven fabrics of synthetic staple fibres 5515 11 10 5515 11 30 5515 11 90 5515 12 10 5515 12 30 5515 12 90 5515 13 11 5515 13 19 5515 13 91 5515 13 99 5515 19 10 5515 19 30 5515 19 90 5515 21 10 5515 21 30 5515 21 90 5515 22 11 5515 22 19 5515 22 91 5515 22 99 5515 29 10 5515 29 30 5515 29 90 5515 91 10 5515 91 30 5515 91 90 5515 92 11 5515 92 19 5515 92 91 5515 92 99 5515 99 10 5515 99 30 5515 99 90 Woven fabrics of artificial staple fibres 5516 11 00 5516 12 00 5516 13 00 5516 14 00 5516 21 00 5516 22 00 5516 23 10 5516 23 90 5516 24 00 5516 31 00 5516 32 00 5516 33 00 5516 34 00 5516 41 00 5516 42 00 5516 43 00 5516 44 00 5516 91 00 5516 92 00 5516 93 00 5516 94 00 Twine, cordage, ropes and cables 5607 10 00 5607 21 00 5607 29 10 5607 29 90 5607 30 00 5607 41 00 5607 49 11 5607 49 19 5607 49 90 5607 50 11 5607 50 19 5607 50 30 5607 50 90 5607 90 00 Knotted netting of twine, cordage or rope 5608 11 11 5608 11 19 5608 11 91 5608 11 99 5608 19 11 5608 19 19 5608 19 31 5608 19 39 5608 19 91 5608 19 99 5608 90 00 Carpets and other textile floor coverings, woven 5702 10 00 5702 20 00 5702 31 10 5702 31 30 5702 31 90 5702 32 10 5702 32 90 5702 39 10 5702 39 90 5702 41 10 5702 41 90 5702 42 10 5702 42 90 5702 49 10 5702 49 90 5702 51 00 5702 52 00 5702 59 00 5702 91 00 5702 92 00 5702 99 00 Carpets and other textile floor coverings, tufted 5703 10 10 5703 10 90 5703 20 11 5703 20 19 5703 20 91 5703 20 99 5703 30 11 5703 30 19 5703 30 51 5703 30 59 5703 30 91 5703 30 99 5703 90 10 5703 90 90 Carpets and other textile floor coverings, of felt 5704 10 00 5704 90 00 Other carpets and other textile floor coverings 5705 00 10 5705 00 31 5705 00 39 5705 00 90 Other knitted or crocheted fabrics 6002 10 10 6002 10 90 6002 20 10 6002 20 31 6002 20 39 6002 20 50 6002 20 70 6002 20 90 6002 30 10 6002 30 90 6002 41 00 6002 42 10 6002 42 30 6002 42 50 6002 42 90 6002 43 11 6002 43 19 6002 43 31 6002 43 33 6002 43 35 6002 43 39 6002 43 50 6002 43 91 6002 43 93 6002 43 95 6002 43 99 6002 49 00 6002 91 00 6002 92 10 6002 92 30 6002 92 50 6002 92 90 6002 93 10 6002 93 31 6002 93 33 6002 93 35 6002 93 39 6002 93 91 6002 93 99 6002 99 00 Men's or boys' suits, ensembles, jackets, blazers 6103 11 00 6103 12 00 6103 19 00 6103 21 00 6103 22 00 6103 23 00 6103 29 00 6103 31 00 6103 32 00 6103 33 00 6103 39 00 Women's or girls' suits, ensembles, jackets, blazers 6104 11 00 6104 12 00 6104 13 00 6104 19 00 6104 21 00 6104 22 00 6104 23 00 6104 29 00 6104 31 00 6104 32 00 6104 33 00 6104 39 00 6104 41 00 6104 42 00 6104 43 00 6104 44 00 6104 49 00 Men's or boys' shirts, knitted or crocheted 6105 10 00 6105 20 10 6105 20 90 6105 90 10 6105 90 90 Women's or girls' blouses, shirts and shirt-blouses 6106 10 00 6106 20 00 6106 90 10 6106 90 30 6106 90 50 6106 90 90 T-shirts, singlets and other vests, knitted or crocheted 6109 90 90 Jerseys, pullovers, cardigans, waistcoats and similar 6110 10 10 6110 10 31 6110 10 35 6110 10 38 6110 10 91 6110 10 95 6110 10 98 6110 20 10 6110 20 91 6110 20 99 6110 30 10 6110 30 91 6110 30 99 6110 90 10 6110 90 90 Babies' garments and clothing accessories, knitted 6111 10 10 6111 10 90 6111 20 10 6111 20 90 6111 30 10 6111 30 90 6111 90 00 Men's or boys' suits, ensembles, jackets, blazers 6203 11 00 6203 12 00 6203 19 10 6203 19 30 6203 19 90 6203 21 00 6203 22 10 6203 22 80 6203 23 10 6203 23 80 6203 29 11 6203 29 18 6203 29 90 6203 31 00 6203 32 10 6203 32 90 6203 33 10 6203 33 90 6203 39 11 6203 39 19 6203 39 90 Women's or girls' suits, ensembles, jackets, blazers 6204 11 00 6204 12 00 6204 13 00 6204 19 10 6204 19 90 6204 21 00 6204 22 10 6204 22 80 6204 23 10 6204 23 80 6204 29 11 6204 29 18 6204 29 90 6204 31 00 6204 32 10 6204 32 90 6204 33 10 6204 33 90 6204 39 11 6204 39 19 6204 39 90 6204 41 00 6204 42 00 6204 43 00 6204 44 00 6204 49 10 6204 49 90 Women's or girls' blouses, shirts and shirt-blouses 6206 10 00 6206 20 00 6206 30 00 6206 40 00 6206 90 10 6206 90 90 Babies' garments and clothing accessories 6209 10 00 6209 20 00 6209 30 00 6209 90 00 Garments, made up of fabrics of heading No 5602, 5 6210 10 10 6210 10 91 6210 10 99 6210 20 00 6210 30 00 6210 40 00 6210 50 00 Track suits, ski suits and swimwear; other garments 6211 11 00 6211 12 00 6211 20 00 6211 31 00 6211 32 10 6211 32 31 6211 32 41 6211 32 42 6211 32 90 6211 33 10 6211 33 31 6211 33 41 6211 33 42 6211 33 90 6211 39 00 6211 41 00 6211 42 10 6211 42 31 6211 42 41 6211 42 42 6211 42 90 6211 43 10 6211 43 31 6211 43 41 6211 43 42 6211 43 90 6211 49 00 Bed linen, table linen, toilet linen and kitchen linen 6302 10 10 6302 10 90 6302 21 00 6302 22 10 6302 22 90 6302 29 10 6302 29 90 6302 31 10 6302 31 90 6302 32 10 6302 32 90 6302 39 10 6302 39 30 6302 39 90 6302 40 00 6302 51 10 6302 51 90 6302 52 00 6302 53 10 6302 53 90 6302 59 00 6302 60 00 6302 91 10 6302 91 90 6302 92 00 6302 93 10 6302 93 90 6302 99 00 Curtains (including drapes) and interior blinds 6303 11 00 6303 12 00 6303 19 00 6303 91 00 6303 92 10 6303 92 90 6303 99 10 6303 99 90 Other furnishing articles 6304 11 00 6304 19 10 6304 19 30 6304 19 90 6304 91 00 6304 92 00 6304 93 00 6304 99 00 Industrial Products (2) CN code 96 Hydrogen, rare gases and other non-metals 2804 69 00 Colloidal precious metals; inorganic or organic 2843 10 90 2843 30 00 2843 90 90 Oxygen-function amino-compounds 2922 41 00 Pig iron and spiegeleisen in pigs, blocks or other 7201 10 11 7201 10 19 7201 10 30 7201 20 00 7201 50 90 Ferro-alloys 7202 11 20 7202 11 80 7202 19 00 7202 21 10 7202 21 90 7202 29 00 7202 30 00 7202 41 10 7202 41 91 7202 41 99 7202 49 10 7202 49 50 7202 49 90 Ferrous products obtained by direct reduction 7203 90 00 Ferrous waste and scrap; remelting scrap ingots 7204 50 90 Iron and non-alloy steel in ingots or other 7206 10 00 7206 90 00 Semi-finished products of iron or non-alloy steel 7207 11 11 7207 11 14 7207 11 16 7207 12 10 7207 19 11 7207 19 14 7207 19 16 7207 19 31 7207 20 11 7207 20 15 7207 20 17 7207 20 32 7207 20 51 7207 20 55 7207 20 57 7207 20 71 Flat-rolled products of iron or non-alloy steel 7208 10 00 7208 25 00 7208 26 00 7208 27 00 7208 36 00 7208 37 10 7208 37 90 7208 38 10 7208 38 90 7208 39 10 7208 39 90 7208 40 10 7208 40 90 7208 51 10 7208 51 30 7208 51 50 7208 51 91 7208 51 99 7208 52 10 7208 52 91 7208 52 99 7208 53 10 7208 53 90 7208 54 10 7208 54 90 7208 90 10 Flat-rolled products of iron or non-alloy steel 7209 15 00 7209 16 10 7209 16 90 7209 17 10 7209 17 90 7209 18 10 7209 18 91 7209 18 99 7209 25 00 7209 26 10 7209 26 90 7209 27 10 7209 27 90 7209 28 10 7209 28 90 7209 90 10 Flat-rolled products of iron or non-alloy steel 7210 11 10 7210 12 11 7210 12 19 7210 20 10 7210 30 10 7210 41 10 7210 49 10 7210 50 10 7210 61 10 7210 69 10 7210 70 31 7210 70 39 7210 90 31 7210 90 33 7210 90 38 Flat-rolled products of iron or non-alloy steel 7211 13 00 7211 14 10 7211 14 90 7211 19 20 7211 19 90 7211 23 10 7211 23 51 7211 29 20 7211 90 11 Flat-rolled products of iron or non-alloy steel 7212 10 10 7212 10 91 7212 20 11 7212 30 11 7212 40 10 7212 40 91 7212 50 31 7212 50 51 7212 60 11 7212 60 91 Bars and rods, hot-rolled 7213 10 00 7213 20 00 7213 91 10 7213 91 20 7213 91 41 7213 91 49 7213 91 70 7213 91 90 7213 99 10 7213 99 90 Other bars and rods of iron or non-alloy steel 7214 20 00 7214 30 00 7214 91 10 7214 91 90 7214 99 10 7214 99 31 7214 99 39 7214 99 50 7214 99 61 7214 99 69 7214 99 80 7214 99 90 Other bars and rods of iron or non-alloy steel 7215 90 10 Angles, shapes and sections of iron or non-alloy steel 7216 10 00 7216 21 00 7216 22 00 7216 31 11 7216 31 19 7216 31 91 7216 31 99 7216 32 11 7216 32 19 7216 32 91 7216 32 99 7216 33 10 7216 33 90 7216 40 10 7216 40 90 7216 50 10 7216 50 91 7216 50 99 7216 99 10 Stainless steel in ingots or other primary forms 7218 10 00 7218 91 11 7218 91 19 7218 99 11 7218 99 20 Flat-rolled products of stainless steel 7219 11 00 7219 12 10 7219 12 90 7219 13 10 7219 13 90 7219 14 10 7219 14 90 7219 21 10 7219 21 90 7219 22 10 7219 22 90 7219 23 00 7219 24 00 7219 31 00 7219 32 10 7219 32 90 7219 33 10 7219 33 90 7219 34 10 7219 34 90 7219 35 10 7219 35 90 7219 90 10 Flat-rolled products of stainless steel 7220 11 00 7220 12 00 7220 20 10 7220 90 11 7220 90 31 Bars and rods, hot-rolled 7221 00 10 7221 00 90 Other bars and rods of stainless steel 7222 11 11 7222 11 19 7222 11 21 7222 11 29 7222 11 91 7222 11 99 7222 19 10 7222 19 90 7222 30 10 7222 40 10 7222 40 30 Other alloy steel in ingots or other primary forms 7224 10 00 7224 90 01 7224 90 05 7224 90 08 7224 90 15 7224 90 31 7224 90 39 Flat-rolled products of other alloy steel 7225 11 00 7225 19 10 7225 19 90 7225 20 20 7225 30 00 7225 40 20 7225 40 50 7225 40 80 7225 50 00 7225 91 10 7225 92 10 7225 99 10 Flat-rolled products of other alloy steel 7226 11 10 7226 19 10 7226 19 30 7226 20 20 7226 91 10 7226 91 90 7226 92 10 7226 93 20 7226 94 20 7226 99 20 Bars and rods, hot-rolled 7227 10 00 7227 20 00 7227 90 10 7227 90 50 7227 90 95 Other bars and rods of other alloy steel 7228 10 10 7228 10 30 7228 20 11 7228 20 19 7228 20 30 7228 30 20 7228 30 41 7228 30 49 7228 30 61 7228 30 69 7228 30 70 7228 30 89 7228 60 10 7228 70 10 7228 70 31 7228 80 10 7228 80 90 Sheet piling of iron or steel 7301 10 00 Railway or tramway track construction material 7302 10 31 7302 10 39 7302 10 90 7302 20 00 7302 40 10 7302 90 10 Tubes, pipes and hollow profiles, of cast iron 7303 00 10 7303 00 90 Tube or pipe fittings (for example couplings) 7307 11 10 7307 11 90 7307 19 10 7307 19 90 7307 21 00 7307 22 10 7307 22 90 7307 23 10 7307 23 90 7307 29 10 7307 29 30 7307 29 90 7307 91 00 7307 92 10 7307 92 90 7307 93 11 7307 93 19 7307 93 91 7307 93 99 7307 99 10 7307 99 30 7307 99 90 Reservoirs, tanks, vats and similar containers 7309 00 10 7309 00 30 7309 00 51 7309 00 59 7309 00 90 Tanks, casks, drums, cans, boxes and similar containers 7310 10 00 7310 21 10 7310 21 91 7310 21 99 7310 29 10 7310 29 90 Containers for compressed or liquefied gas 7311 00 10 7311 00 91 7311 00 99 Stranded wire, ropes, cables, plaited bands 7312 10 30 7312 10 51 7312 10 59 7312 10 71 7312 10 75 7312 10 79 7312 10 82 7312 10 84 7312 10 86 7312 10 88 7312 10 99 7312 90 90 Barbed wire of iron or steel 7313 00 00 Chain and parts thereof, of iron or steel 7315 11 10 7315 11 90 7315 12 00 7315 19 00 7315 20 00 7315 81 00 7315 82 10 7315 82 90 7315 89 00 7315 90 00 Screws, bolts, nuts, coach screws, screw hooks 7318 11 00 7318 12 10 7318 12 90 7318 13 00 7318 14 10 7318 14 91 7318 14 99 7318 15 10 7318 15 20 7318 15 30 7318 15 41 7318 15 49 7318 15 51 7318 15 59 7318 15 61 7318 15 69 7318 15 70 7318 15 81 7318 15 89 7318 15 90 7318 16 10 7318 16 30 7318 16 50 7318 16 91 7318 16 99 7318 19 00 7318 21 00 7318 22 00 7318 23 00 7318 24 00 7318 29 00 Sewing needles, knitting needles, bodkins, crochets 7319 10 00 7319 20 00 7319 30 00 7319 90 00 Springs and leaves for springs, of iron or steel 7320 10 11 7320 10 19 7320 10 90 7320 20 20 7320 20 81 7320 20 85 7320 20 89 7320 90 10 7320 90 30 7320 90 90 Stoves, ranges, grates, cookers 7321 11 10 7321 11 90 7321 12 00 7321 13 00 7321 81 10 7321 81 90 7321 82 10 7321 82 90 7321 83 00 7321 90 00 Radiators for central heating 7322 11 00 7322 19 00 7322 90 90 Table, kitchen or other household articles 7323 10 00 7323 91 00 7323 92 00 7323 93 10 7323 93 90 7323 94 10 7323 94 90 7323 99 10 7323 99 91 7323 99 99 Sanitary ware and parts thereof, of iron or steel 7324 10 90 7324 21 00 7324 29 00 7324 90 90 Other cast articles of iron or steel 7325 10 20 7325 10 50 7325 10 91 7325 10 99 7325 91 00 7325 99 10 7325 99 91 7325 99 99 Other articles of iron or steel 7326 11 00 7326 19 10 7326 19 90 7326 20 30 7326 20 50 7326 20 90 7326 90 10 7326 90 30 7326 90 40 7326 90 50 7326 90 60 7326 90 70 7326 90 80 7326 90 91 7326 90 93 7326 90 95 7326 90 97 Unwrought zinc 7901 11 00 7901 12 10 7901 12 30 7901 12 90 7901 20 00 Zinc dust, powders and flakes 7903 10 00 7903 90 00 Motor vehicles for the transport of ten or more persons 8702 10 11 8702 10 19 8702 90 11 8702 90 19 Motor vehicles for the transport of goods 8704 21 31 8704 21 39 8704 22 91 8704 22 99 8704 23 91 8704 23 99 8704 31 31 8704 31 39 8704 32 91 8704 32 99 Annex XIII to Protocol 1 PRODUCTS TO WHICH ARTICLE 6(3) SHALL NOT BE APPLICABLE Industrial Products (1) CN code 96 Motor cars and other motor vehicles 8703 10 10 8703 10 90 8703 21 10 8703 21 90 8703 22 11 8703 22 19 8703 22 90 8703 23 11 8703 23 19 8703 23 90 8703 24 10 8703 24 90 8703 31 10 8703 31 90 8703 32 11 8703 32 19 8703 32 90 8703 33 11 8703 33 19 8703 33 90 8703 90 10 8703 90 90 Chassis fitted with engines 8706 00 11 8706 00 19 8706 00 91 8706 00 99 Bodies (including cabs), for the motor vehicles 8707 10 10 8707 10 90 8707 90 10 8707 90 90 Parts and accessories of the motor vehicles 8708 10 10 8708 10 90 8708 21 10 8708 21 90 8708 29 10 8708 29 90 8708 31 10 8708 31 91 8708 31 99 8708 39 10 8708 39 90 8708 40 10 8708 40 90 8708 50 10 8708 50 90 8708 60 10 8708 60 91 8708 60 99 8708 70 10 8708 70 50 8708 70 91 8708 70 99 8708 80 10 8708 80 90 8708 91 10 8708 91 90 8708 92 10 8708 92 90 8708 93 10 8708 93 90 8708 94 10 8708 94 90 8708 99 10 8708 99 30 8708 99 50 8708 99 92 8708 99 98 Industrial Products (2) CN code 96 Unwrought aluminium 7601 10 00 7601 20 10 7601 20 91 7601 20 99 Aluminium powders and flakes 7603 10 00 7603 20 00 Agricultural Products (1) CN code 96 Live horses, asses, mules and hinnies 0101 20 10 Milk and cream, not concentrated 0401 10 10 0401 10 90 0401 20 11 0401 20 19 0401 20 91 0401 20 99 0401 30 11 0401 30 19 0401 30 31 0401 30 39 0401 30 91 0401 30 99 Buttermilk, curdled milk and cream, yogurt, kephir 0403 10 11 0403 10 13 0403 10 19 0403 10 31 0403 10 33 0403 10 39 Potatoes, fresh or chilled 0701 90 51 Leguminous vegetables, shelled or unshelled, fresh or chilled 0708 10 20 0708 10 95 Other vegetables, fresh or chilled 0709 51 90 0709 60 10 Vegetables (uncooked or cooked by steaming or boiled) 0710 80 95 Vegetables provisionally preserved 0711 10 00 0711 30 00 0711 90 60 0711 90 70 Dates, figs, pineapples, avocados, guavas, mangoes 0804 20 90 0804 30 00 0804 40 20 0804 40 90 0804 40 95 Grapes, fresh or dried 0806 10 29 (3) (12) 0806 20 11 0806 20 12 0806 20 18 Melons (including watermelons) and papaws (papayas) 0807 11 00 0807 19 00 Apricots, cherries, peaches (including nectarines) 0809 30 11 (5) (12) 0809 30 51 (6) (12) Other fruit, fresh 0810 90 40 0810 90 85 Fruit and nuts, provisionally preserved 0812 10 00 0812 20 00 0812 90 50 0812 90 60 0812 90 70 0812 90 95 Fruit, dried 0813 40 10 0813 50 15 0813 50 19 0813 50 39 0813 50 91 0813 50 99 Pepper of the genus Piper; dried or crushed 0904 20 10 Soya-bean oil and its fractions 1507 10 10 1507 10 90 1507 90 10 1507 90 90 Sunflower-seed, safflower or cotton-seed oil 1512 11 10 1512 11 91 1512 11 99 1512 19 10 1512 19 91 1512 19 99 1512 21 10 1512 21 90 1512 29 10 1512 29 90 Rape, colza or mustard oil and fractions thereof 1514 10 10 1514 10 90 1514 90 10 1514 90 90 Fruit, nuts and other edible parts of plants 2008 19 59 Fruit juices (including grape must) 2009 20 99 2009 40 99 2009 80 99 Unmanufactured tobacco; tobacco refuse 2401 10 10 2401 10 20 2401 10 41 2401 10 49 2401 10 60 2401 20 10 2401 20 20 2401 20 41 2401 20 60 2401 20 70 Agricultural Products (2) CN code 96 Cut flowers and flower buds 0603 10 55 0603 10 61 0603 10 69 (11) Onions, shallots, garlic, leeks 0703 10 11 0703 10 19 0703 10 90 0703 90 00 Cabbages, cauliflowers, kohlrabi, kale and similar 0704 10 05 0704 10 10 0704 10 80 0704 20 00 0704 90 10 0704 90 90 Lettuce (Lactuca sativa) and chicory 0705 11 05 0705 11 10 0705 11 80 0705 19 00 0705 21 00 0705 29 00 Carrots, turnips, salad beetroot, salsify, celeriac 0706 10 00 0706 90 05 0706 90 11 0706 90 17 0706 90 30 0706 90 90 Leguminous vegetables, shelled or unshelled, fresh or chilled 0708 10 90 0708 20 20 0708 20 90 0708 20 95 0708 90 00 Other vegetables, fresh or chilled 0709 10 30 (12) 0709 30 00 0709 40 00 0709 51 10 0709 51 50 0709 70 00 0709 90 10 0709 90 20 0709 90 40 0709 90 50 0709 90 90 Vegetables (uncooked or cooked by steaming or boiled) 0710 10 00 0710 21 00 0710 22 00 0710 29 00 0710 30 00 0710 80 10 0710 80 51 0710 80 61 0710 80 69 0710 80 70 0710 80 80 0710 80 85 0710 90 00 Vegetables provisionally preserved 0711 20 10 0711 40 00 0711 90 40 0711 90 90 Dried vegetables, whole, cut, sliced, broken 0712 20 00 0712 30 00 0712 90 30 0712 90 50 0712 90 90 Manioc, arrowroot, salep, Jerusalem artichokes 0714 90 11 0714 90 19 Other nuts, fresh or dried, whether or not shelled 0802 11 90 0802 21 00 0802 22 00 0802 40 00 Bananas, including plantains, fresh or dried 0803 00 11 0803 00 90 Dates, figs, pineapples, avocados, guavas, mangoes 0804 20 10 Citrus fruit, fresh or dried 0805 20 21 (1) (12) 0805 20 23 (1) (12) 0805 20 25 (1) (12) 0805 20 27 (1) (12) 0805 20 29 (1) (12) 0805 30 90 0805 90 00 Grapes, fresh or dried 0806 10 95 0806 10 97 Apples, pears and quinces, fresh 0808 10 10 (12) 0808 20 10 (12) 0808 20 90 Apricots, cherries, peaches (including nectarines) 0809 10 10 (12) 0809 10 50 (12) 0809 20 19 (12) 0809 20 29 (12) 0809 30 11 (7) (12) 0809 30 19 (12) 0809 30 51 (8) (12) 0809 30 59 (12) 0809 40 40 (12) Other fruit, fresh 0810 10 05 0810 20 90 0810 30 10 0810 30 30 0810 30 90 0810 40 90 0810 50 00 Fruit and nuts, uncooked or cooked by steaming 0811 20 11 0811 20 31 0811 20 39 0811 20 59 0811 90 11 0811 90 19 0811 90 39 0811 90 75 0811 90 80 0811 90 95 Fruit and nuts, provisionally preserved 0812 90 10 0812 90 20 Fruit, dried 0813 20 00 Wheat and meslin 1001 90 10 Buckwheat, millet and canary seed; other cereals 1008 10 00 1008 20 00 1008 90 90 Flour, meal, powder, flakes, granules and pellets 1105 10 00 1105 20 00 Flour, meal and powder of the dried leguminous vegetables 1106 10 00 1106 30 10 1106 30 90 Fats and oils and their fractions, of fish 1504 30 11 Other prepared or preserved meat, meat offal 1602 20 11 1602 20 19 1602 31 11 1602 31 19 1602 31 30 1602 31 90 1602 32 19 1602 32 30 1602 32 90 1602 39 29 1602 39 40 1602 39 80 1602 41 90 1602 42 90 1602 90 31 1602 90 72 1602 90 76 Vegetables, fruit, nuts and other edible parts 2001 10 00 2001 20 00 2001 90 50 2001 90 65 2001 90 96 Mushrooms and truffles, prepared or preserved 2003 10 20 2003 10 30 2003 10 80 2003 20 00 Other vegetables prepared or preserved otherwise 2004 10 10 2004 10 99 2004 90 50 2004 90 91 2004 90 98 Other vegetables prepared or preserved otherwise 2005 10 00 2005 20 20 2005 20 80 2005 40 00 2005 51 00 2005 59 00 Vegetables, fruit, nuts, fruit-peel 2006 00 31 2006 00 35 2006 00 38 2006 00 99 Jams, fruit jellies, marmalades, fruit or nut puree 2007 10 91 2007 99 93 Fruit, nuts and other edible parts of plants 2008 11 94 2008 11 98 2008 19 19 2008 19 95 2008 19 99 2008 20 51 2008 20 59 2008 20 71 2008 20 79 2008 20 91 2008 20 99 2008 30 11 2008 30 39 2008 30 51 2008 30 59 2008 40 11 2008 40 21 2008 40 29 2008 40 39 2008 60 11 2008 60 31 2008 60 39 2008 60 59 2008 60 69 2008 60 79 2008 60 99 2008 70 11 2008 70 31 2008 70 39 2008 70 59 2008 80 11 2008 80 31 2008 80 39 2008 80 50 2008 80 70 2008 80 91 2008 80 99 2008 99 23 2008 99 25 2008 99 26 2008 99 28 2008 99 36 2008 99 45 2008 99 46 2008 99 49 2008 99 53 2008 99 55 2008 99 61 2008 99 62 2008 99 68 2008 99 72 2008 99 74 2008 99 79 2008 99 99 Fruit juices (including grape must) 2009 11 19 2009 11 91 2009 19 19 2009 19 91 2009 19 99 2009 20 19 2009 20 91 2009 30 19 2009 30 31 2009 30 39 2009 30 51 2009 30 55 2009 30 91 2009 30 95 2009 30 99 2009 40 19 2009 40 91 2009 80 19 2009 80 50 2009 80 61 2009 80 63 2009 80 73 2009 80 79 2009 80 83 2009 80 84 2009 80 86 2009 80 97 2009 90 19 2009 90 29 2009 90 39 2009 90 41 2009 90 51 2009 90 59 2009 90 73 2009 90 79 2009 90 92 2009 90 94 2009 90 95 2009 90 96 2009 90 97 2009 90 98 Other fermented beverages (for example, cider) 2206 00 10 Wine lees; argol 2307 00 19 Vegetable materials and vegetable waste 2308 90 19 Agricultural Products (3) CN code 96 Live swine 0103 91 10 0103 92 11 0103 92 19 Live sheep and goats 0104 10 30 0104 10 80 0104 20 90 Live poultry, that is to say, fowls of the species 0105 11 11 0105 11 19 0105 11 91 0105 11 99 0105 12 00 0105 19 20 0105 19 90 0105 92 00 0105 93 00 0105 99 10 0105 99 20 0105 99 30 0105 99 50 Meat of swine, fresh, chilled or frozen 0203 11 10 0203 12 11 0203 12 19 0203 19 11 0203 19 13 0203 19 15 0203 19 55 0203 19 59 0203 21 10 0203 22 11 0203 22 19 0203 29 11 0203 29 13 0203 29 15 0203 29 55 0203 29 59 Meat of sheep or goats, fresh, chilled or frozen 0204 10 00 0204 21 00 0204 22 10 0204 22 30 0204 22 50 0204 22 90 0204 23 00 0204 30 00 0204 41 00 0204 42 10 0204 42 30 0204 42 50 0204 42 90 0204 43 10 0204 43 90 0204 50 11 0204 50 13 0204 50 15 0204 50 19 0204 50 31 0204 50 39 0204 50 51 0204 50 53 0204 50 55 0204 50 59 0204 50 71 0204 50 79 Meat and edible offal 0207 11 10 0207 11 30 0207 11 90 0207 12 10 0207 12 90 0207 13 10 0207 13 20 0207 13 30 0207 13 40 0207 13 50 0207 13 60 0207 13 70 0207 13 99 0207 14 10 0207 14 20 0207 14 30 0207 14 40 0207 14 50 0207 14 60 0207 14 70 0207 14 99 0207 24 10 0207 24 90 0207 25 10 0207 25 90 0207 26 10 0207 26 20 0207 26 30 0207 26 40 0207 26 50 0207 26 60 0207 26 70 0207 26 80 0207 26 99 0207 27 10 0207 27 20 0207 27 30 0207 27 40 0207 27 50 0207 27 60 0207 27 70 0207 27 80 0207 27 99 0207 32 11 0207 32 15 0207 32 19 0207 32 51 0207 32 59 0207 32 90 0207 33 11 0207 33 19 0207 33 51 0207 33 59 0207 33 90 0207 35 11 0207 35 15 0207 35 21 0207 35 23 0207 35 25 0207 35 31 0207 35 41 0207 35 51 0207 35 53 0207 35 61 0207 35 63 0207 35 71 0207 35 79 0207 35 99 0207 36 11 0207 36 15 0207 36 21 0207 36 23 0207 36 25 0207 36 31 0207 36 41 0207 36 51 0207 36 53 0207 36 61 0207 36 63 0207 36 71 0207 36 79 0207 36 90 Pig fat, free of lean meat, and poultry fat 0209 00 11 0209 00 19 0209 00 30 0209 00 90 Meat and edible meat offal, salted, in brine 0210 11 11 0210 11 19 0210 11 31 0210 11 39 0210 11 90 0210 12 11 0210 12 19 0210 12 90 0210 19 10 0210 19 20 0210 19 30 0210 19 40 0210 19 51 0210 19 59 0210 19 60 0210 19 70 0210 19 81 0210 19 89 0210 19 90 0210 90 11 0210 90 19 0210 90 21 0210 90 29 0210 90 31 0210 90 39 Milk and cream, concentrated 0402 91 11 0402 91 19 0402 91 31 0402 91 39 0402 91 51 0402 91 59 0402 91 91 0402 91 99 0402 99 11 0402 99 19 0402 99 31 0402 99 39 0402 99 91 0402 99 99 Buttermilk, curdled milk and cream, yogurt, kephir 0403 90 51 0403 90 53 0403 90 59 0403 90 61 0403 90 63 0403 90 69 Whey, whether or not concentrated 0404 10 48 0404 10 52 0404 10 54 0404 10 56 0404 10 58 0404 10 62 0404 10 72 0404 10 74 0404 10 76 0404 10 78 0404 10 82 0404 10 84 Cheese and curd 0406 10 20 (11) 0406 10 80 (11) 0406 20 90 (11) 0406 30 10 (11) 0406 30 31 (11) 0406 30 39 (11) 0406 30 90 (11) 0406 40 90 (11) 0406 90 01 (11) 0406 90 21 (11) 0406 90 50 (11) 0406 90 69 (11) 0406 90 78 (11) 0406 90 86 (11) 0406 90 87 (11) 0406 90 88 (11) 0406 90 93 (11) 0406 90 99 (11) Birds' eggs, in shell, fresh, preserved or cooked 0407 00 11 0407 00 19 0407 00 30 Birds' eggs, not in shell, and egg yolks, fresh 0408 11 80 0408 19 81 0408 19 89 0408 91 80 0408 99 80 Natural honey 0409 00 00 Tomatoes, fresh or chilled 0702 00 15 (12) 0702 00 20 (12) 0702 00 25 (12) 0702 00 30 (12) 0702 00 35 (12) 0702 00 40 (12) 0702 00 45 (12) 0702 00 50 (12) Cucumbers and gherkins, fresh or chilled 0707 00 10 (12) 0707 00 15 (12) 0707 00 20 (12) 0707 00 25 (12) 0707 00 30 (12) 0707 00 35 (12) 0707 00 40 (12) 0707 00 90 Other vegetables, fresh or chilled 0709 10 10 (12) 0709 10 20 (12) 0709 20 00 0709 90 39 0709 90 75 (12) 0709 90 77 (12) 0709 90 79 (12) Vegetables provisionally preserved 0711 20 90 Dried vegetables, whole, cut, sliced, broken 0712 90 19 Manioc, arrowroot, salep, Jerusalem artichokes 0714 10 10 0714 10 91 0714 10 99 0714 20 90 Citrus fruit, fresh or dried 0805 10 37 (2) (12) 0805 10 38 (2) (12) 0805 10 39 (2) (12) 0805 10 42 (2) (12) 0805 10 46 (2) (12) 0805 10 82 0805 10 84 0805 10 86 0805 20 11 (12) 0805 20 13 (12) 0805 20 15 (12) 0805 20 17 (12) 0805 20 19 (12) 0805 20 21 (10) (12) 0805 20 23 (10) (12) 0805 20 25 (10) (12) 0805 20 27 (10) (12) 0805 20 29 (10) (12) 0805 20 31 (12) 0805 20 33 (12) 0805 20 35 (12) 0805 20 37 (12) 0805 20 39 (12) Grapes, fresh or dried 0806 10 21 (12) 0806 10 29 (4) (12) 0806 10 30 (12) 0806 10 50 (12) 0806 10 61 (12) 0806 10 69 (12) 0806 10 93 Apricots, cherries, peaches (including nectarines) 0809 10 20 (12) 0809 10 30 (12) 0809 10 40 (12) 0809 20 11 (12) 0809 20 21 (12) 0809 20 31 (12) 0809 20 39 (12) 0809 20 41 (12) 0809 20 49 (12) 0809 20 51 (12) 0809 20 59 (12) 0809 20 61 (12) 0809 20 69 (12) 0809 20 71 (12) 0809 20 79 (12) 0809 30 21 (12) 0809 30 29 (12) 0809 30 31 (12) 0809 30 39 (12) 0809 30 41 (12) 0809 30 49 (12) 0809 40 20 (12) 0809 40 30 (12) Other fruit, fresh 0810 10 10 0810 10 80 0810 20 10 Fruit and nuts, uncooked or cooked by steaming 0811 10 11 0811 10 19 Wheat and meslin 1001 10 00 1001 90 91 1001 90 99 Rye 1002 00 00 Barley 1003 00 10 1003 00 90 Oats 1004 00 00 Buckwheat, millet and canary seed; other cereals 1008 90 10 Wheat or meslin flour 1101 00 11 1101 00 15 1101 00 90 Cereal flours other than of wheat or meslin 1102 10 00 1102 90 10 1102 90 30 1102 90 90 Cereal groats, meal and pellets 1103 11 10 1103 11 90 1103 12 00 1103 19 10 1103 19 30 1103 19 90 1103 21 00 1103 29 10 1103 29 20 1103 29 30 1103 29 90 Cereal grains otherwise worked 1104 11 10 1104 11 90 1104 12 10 1104 12 90 1104 19 10 1104 19 30 1104 19 99 1104 21 10 1104 21 30 1104 21 50 1104 21 90 1104 21 99 1104 22 20 1104 22 30 1104 22 50 1104 22 90 1104 22 92 1104 22 99 1104 29 11 1104 29 15 1104 29 19 1104 29 31 1104 29 35 1104 29 39 1104 29 51 1104 29 55 1104 29 59 1104 29 81 1104 29 85 1104 29 89 1104 30 10 Flour, meal and powder of the dried leguminous vegetables 1106 20 10 1106 20 90 Malt, whether or not roasted 1107 10 11 1107 10 19 1107 10 91 1107 10 99 1107 20 00 Locust beans, seaweeds and other algae, sugar beet 1212 91 20 1212 91 80 Pig fat (including lard) and poultry fat 1501 00 19 Olive oil and its fractions, whether or not refined 1509 10 10 1509 10 90 1509 90 00 Other oils and their fractions 1510 00 10 1510 00 90 Degras 1522 00 31 1522 00 39 Sausages and similar products, of meat, meat offal 1601 00 91 1601 00 99 Other prepared or preserved meat, meat offal 1602 10 00 1602 20 90 1602 32 11 1602 39 21 1602 41 10 1602 42 10 1602 49 11 1602 49 13 1602 49 15 1602 49 19 1602 49 30 1602 49 50 1602 49 90 1602 50 31 1602 50 39 1602 50 80 1602 90 10 1602 90 41 1602 90 51 1602 90 69 1602 90 74 1602 90 78 1602 90 98 Other sugars, including chemically pure lactose 1702 11 00 1702 19 00 Pasta, whether or not cooked or stuffed 1902 20 30 Jams, fruit jellies, marmalades, fruit or nut puree 2007 10 99 2007 91 90 2007 99 91 2007 99 98 Fruit, nuts and other edible parts of plants 2008 20 11 2008 20 31 2008 30 19 2008 30 31 2008 30 79 2008 30 91 2008 30 99 2008 40 19 2008 40 31 2008 50 11 2008 50 19 2008 50 31 2008 50 39 2008 50 51 2008 50 59 2008 60 19 2008 60 51 2008 60 61 2008 60 71 2008 60 91 2008 70 19 2008 70 51 2008 80 19 2008 92 16 2008 92 18 2008 99 21 2008 99 32 2008 99 33 2008 99 34 2008 99 37 2008 99 43 Fruit juices (including grape must) 2009 11 11 2009 19 11 2009 20 11 2009 30 11 2009 30 59 2009 40 11 2009 50 10 2009 50 90 2009 80 11 2009 80 32 2009 80 33 2009 80 35 2009 90 11 2009 90 21 2009 90 31 Food preparations not elsewhere specified 2106 90 51 Wine of fresh grapes, including fortified wines 2204 10 19 (11) 2204 10 99 (11) 2204 21 10 2204 21 81 2204 21 82 2204 21 98 2204 21 99 2204 29 10 2204 29 58 2204 29 75 2204 29 98 2204 29 99 2204 30 10 2204 30 92 (12) 2204 30 94 (12) 2204 30 96 (12) 2204 30 98 (12) Undenatured ethyl alcohol 2208 20 40 Bran, sharps and other residues 2302 30 10 2302 30 90 2302 40 10 2302 40 90 Oil-cake and other solid residues 2306 90 19 Preparations of a kind used in animal feeding 2309 10 13 2309 10 15 2309 10 19 2309 10 33 2309 10 39 2309 10 51 2309 10 53 2309 10 59 2309 10 70 2309 90 33 2309 90 35 2309 90 39 2309 90 43 2309 90 49 2309 90 51 2309 90 53 2309 90 59 2309 90 70 Albumins 3502 11 90 3502 19 90 3502 20 91 3502 20 99 Agricultural Products (4) CN code 96 Buttermilk, curdled milk and cream, yogurt, kephir 0403 10 51 0403 10 53 0403 10 59 0403 10 91 0403 10 93 0403 10 99 0403 90 71 0403 90 73 0403 90 79 0403 90 91 0403 90 93 0403 90 99 Butter and other fats and oils derived from milk 0405 20 10 0405 20 30 Vegetable saps and extracts; pectic substances 1302 20 10 1302 20 90 Margarine 1517 10 10 1517 90 10 Other sugars, including chemically pure lactose 1702 50 00 1702 90 10 Sugar confectionery (including white chocolate) 1704 10 11 1704 10 19 1704 10 91 1704 10 99 1704 90 10 1704 90 30 1704 90 51 1704 90 55 1704 90 61 1704 90 65 1704 90 71 1704 90 75 1704 90 81 1704 90 99 Chocolate and other food preparations 1806 10 15 1806 10 20 1806 10 30 1806 10 90 1806 20 10 1806 20 30 1806 20 50 1806 20 70 1806 20 80 1806 20 95 1806 31 00 1806 32 10 1806 32 90 1806 90 11 1806 90 19 1806 90 31 1806 90 39 1806 90 50 1806 90 60 1806 90 70 1806 90 90 Malt extract; food preparations of flour, meal 1901 10 00 1901 20 00 1901 90 11 1901 90 19 1901 90 99 Pasta, whether or not cooked or stuffed 1902 11 00 1902 19 10 1902 19 90 1902 20 91 1902 20 99 1902 30 10 1902 30 90 1902 40 10 1902 40 90 Tapioca and substitutes 1903 00 00 Prepared foods 1904 10 10 1904 10 30 1904 10 90 1904 20 10 1904 20 91 1904 20 95 1904 20 99 1904 90 10 1904 90 90 Bread, pastry, cakes, biscuits 1905 10 00 1905 20 10 1905 20 30 1905 20 90 1905 30 11 1905 30 19 1905 30 30 1905 30 51 1905 30 59 1905 30 91 1905 30 99 1905 40 10 1905 40 90 1905 90 10 1905 90 20 1905 90 30 1905 90 40 1905 90 45 1905 90 55 1905 90 60 1905 90 90 Vegetables, fruit, nuts 2001 90 40 Other vegetables 2004 10 91 Other vegetables 2005 20 10 Fruits, nuts and other edible parts of plants 2008 99 85 2008 99 91 Fruit juices (including grape must) 2009 80 69 Extracts, essences and concentrates, of coffee 2101 11 11 2101 11 19 2101 12 92 2101 12 98 2101 20 98 2101 30 11 2101 30 19 2101 30 91 2101 30 99 Yeasts (active or inactive) 2102 10 10 2102 10 31 2102 10 39 2102 10 90 2102 20 11 Sauces and preparations therefor; mixed condiments 2103 20 00 Ice cream and other edible ice 2105 00 10 2105 00 91 2105 00 99 Food preparations not elsewhere specified or included 2106 10 20 2106 10 80 2106 90 10 2106 90 20 2106 90 98 Waters, including mineral waters and aerated water 2202 90 91 2202 90 95 2202 90 99 Vinegar and substitutes for vinegar 2209 00 11 2209 00 19 2209 00 91 2209 00 99 Acyclic alcohols and their halogenated derivates 2905 43 00 2905 44 11 2905 44 19 2905 44 91 2905 44 99 2905 45 00 Mixtures of odoriferous substances and mixtures 3302 10 10 3302 10 21 3302 10 29 Finishing agents, dye carriers 3809 10 10 3809 10 30 3809 10 50 3809 10 90 Prepared binders for foundry moulds or cores 3824 60 11 3824 60 19 3824 60 91 3824 60 99 Agricultural Products (5) CN code 96 Cut flowers and flower buds 0603 10 15 (11) 0603 10 29 (11) 0603 10 51 (11) 0603 10 65 (11) 0603 90 00 (11) Fruit and nuts, uncooked or cooked by steaming 0811 10 90 (11) Fruit, nuts and other edible parts of plants 2008 40 51 (11) 2008 40 59 (11) 2008 40 71 (11) 2008 40 79 (11) 2008 40 91 (11) 2008 40 99 (11) 2008 50 61 (11) 2008 50 69 (11) 2008 50 71 (11) 2008 50 79 (11) 2008 50 92 (11) 2008 50 94 (11) 2008 50 99 (11) 2008 70 61 (11) 2008 70 69 (11) 2008 70 71 (11) 2008 70 79 (11) 2008 70 92 (11) 2008 70 94 (11) 2008 70 99 (11) 2008 92 59 (11) 2008 92 72 (11) 2008 92 74 (11) 2008 92 78 (11) 2008 92 98 (11) Fruit juices (including grape must) 2009 11 99 (11) 2009 40 30 (11) 2009 70 11 (11) 2009 70 19 (11) 2009 70 30 (11) 2009 70 91 (11) 2009 70 93 (11) 2009 70 99 (11) Wine of fresh grapes, including fortified wines 2204 21 79 (11) 2204 21 80 (11) 2204 21 83 (11) 2204 21 84 (11) Agricultural Products (6) CN code 96 Live bovine animals 0102 90 05 0102 90 21 0102 90 29 0102 90 41 0102 90 49 0102 90 51 0102 90 59 0102 90 61 0102 90 69 0102 90 71 0102 90 79 Meat of bovine animals, fresh or chilled 0201 10 00 0201 20 20 0201 20 30 0201 20 50 0201 20 90 0201 30 00 Meat of bovine animals, frozen 0202 10 00 0202 20 10 0202 20 30 0202 20 50 0202 20 90 0202 30 10 0202 30 50 0202 30 90 Edible offal of bovine animals, swine, sheep, goats 0206 10 95 0206 29 91 0206 29 99 Meat and edible meat offal, salted, in brine 0210 20 10 0210 20 90 0210 90 41 0210 90 49 0210 90 90 Milk and cream, concentrated 0402 10 11 0402 10 19 0402 10 91 0402 10 99 0402 21 11 0402 21 17 0402 21 19 0402 21 91 0402 21 99 0402 29 11 0402 29 15 0402 29 19 0402 29 91 0402 29 99 Buttermilk, curdled milk and cream, yogurt, kephir 0403 90 11 0403 90 13 0403 90 19 0403 90 31 0403 90 33 0403 90 39 Whey, whether or not concentrated 0404 10 02 0404 10 04 0404 10 06 0404 10 12 0404 10 14 0404 10 16 0404 10 26 0404 10 28 0404 10 32 0404 10 34 0404 10 36 0404 10 38 0404 90 21 0404 90 23 0404 90 29 0404 90 81 0404 90 83 0404 90 89 Butter and other fats and oils derived from milk 0405 10 11 0405 10 19 0405 10 30 0405 10 50 0405 10 90 0405 20 90 0405 90 10 0405 90 90 Cut flowers and flower buds 0603 10 11 0603 10 13 0603 10 21 0603 10 25 0603 10 53 Other vegetables, fresh or chilled 0709 90 60 Vegetables (uncooked or cooked by steaming or boiling) 0710 40 00 Vegetables provisionally preserved 0711 90 30 Bananas, including plantains, fresh or dried 0803 00 19 Citrus fruit, fresh or dried 0805 10 01 (12) 0805 10 05 (12) 0805 10 09 (12) 0805 10 11 (12) 0805 10 15 (2) 0805 10 19 (2) 0805 10 21 (2) 0805 10 25 (12) 0805 10 29 (12) 0805 10 31 (12) 0805 10 33 (12) 0805 10 35 (12) 0805 10 37 (9) (12) 0805 10 38 (9) (12) 0805 10 39 (9) (12) 0805 10 42 (9) (12) 0805 10 44 (12) 0805 10 46 (9) (12) 0805 10 51 (2) 0805 10 55 (2) 0805 10 59 (2) 0805 10 61 (2) 0805 10 65 (2) 0805 10 69 (2) 0805 30 20 (2) 0805 30 30 (2) 0805 30 40 (2) Grapes, fresh or dried 0806 10 40 (12) Apples, pears and quinces, fresh 0808 10 51 (12) 0808 10 53 (12) 0808 10 59 (12) 0808 10 61 (12) 0808 10 63 (12) 0808 10 69 (12) 0808 10 71 (12) 0808 10 73 (12) 0808 10 79 (12) 0808 10 92 (12) 0808 10 94 (12) 0808 10 98 (12) 0808 20 31 (12) 0808 20 37 (12) 0808 20 41 (12) 0808 20 47 (12) 0808 20 51 (12) 0808 20 57 (12) 0808 20 67 (12) Maize (corn) 1005 10 90 1005 90 00 Rice 1006 10 10 1006 10 21 1006 10 23 1006 10 25 1006 10 27 1006 10 92 1006 10 94 1006 10 96 1006 10 98 1006 20 11 1006 20 13 1006 20 15 1006 20 17 1006 20 92 1006 20 94 1006 20 96 1006 20 98 1006 30 21 1006 30 23 1006 30 25 1006 30 27 1006 30 42 1006 30 44 1006 30 46 1006 30 48 1006 30 61 1006 30 63 1006 30 65 1006 30 67 1006 30 92 1006 30 94 1006 30 96 1006 30 98 1006 40 00 Grain sorghum 1007 00 10 1007 00 90 Cereal flours other than of wheat or meslin 1102 20 10 1102 20 90 1102 30 00 Cereal groats, meal and pellets 1103 13 10 1103 13 90 1103 14 00 1103 29 40 1103 29 50 Cereal grains otherwise worked 1104 19 50 1104 19 91 1104 23 10 1104 23 30 1104 23 90 1104 23 99 1104 30 90 Starches; inulin 1108 11 00 1108 12 00 1108 13 00 1108 14 00 1108 19 10 1108 19 90 1108 20 00 Wheat gluten, whether or not dried 1109 00 00 Other prepared or preserved meat, meat offal 1602 50 10 1602 90 61 Cane or beet sugar and chemically pure sucrose 1701 11 10 1701 11 90 1701 12 10 1701 12 90 1701 91 00 1701 99 10 1701 99 90 Other sugars, including chemically pure lactose 1702 20 10 1702 20 90 1702 30 10 1702 30 51 1702 30 59 1702 30 91 1702 30 99 1702 40 10 1702 40 90 1702 60 10 1702 60 90 1702 90 30 1702 90 50 1702 90 60 1702 90 71 1702 90 75 1702 90 79 1702 90 80 1702 90 99 Vegetables, fruit, nuts and other edible parts 2001 90 30 Tomatoes prepared or preserved 2002 10 10 2002 10 90 2002 90 11 2002 90 19 2002 90 31 2002 90 39 2002 90 91 2002 90 99 Other vegetables prepared or preserved 2004 90 10 Other vegetables prepared or preserved 2005 60 00 2005 80 00 Jams, fruit jellies, marmalades, fruit or nut puree 2007 10 10 2007 91 10 2007 91 30 2007 99 10 2007 99 20 2007 99 31 2007 99 33 2007 99 35 2007 99 39 2007 99 51 2007 99 55 2007 99 58 Fruit, nuts and other edible parts of plants 2008 30 55 2008 30 75 2008 92 51 2008 92 76 2008 92 92 2008 92 93 2008 92 94 2008 92 96 2008 92 97 Fruit juices (including grape must) 2009 40 93 2009 60 11 (12) 2009 60 19 (12) 2009 60 51 (12) 2009 60 59 (12) 2009 60 71 (12) 2009 60 79 (12) 2009 60 90 (12) 2009 80 71 2009 90 49 2009 90 71 Food preparations not elsewhere specified or included 2106 90 30 2106 90 55 2106 90 59 Wine of fresh grapes, including fortified wines 2204 21 94 2204 29 62 2204 29 64 2204 29 65 2204 29 83 2204 29 84 2204 29 94 Vermouth and other wine of fresh grapes 2205 10 10 2205 10 90 2205 90 10 2205 90 90 Undenatured ethyl alcohol 2207 10 00 2207 20 00 Undenatured ethyl alcohol 2208 40 10 2208 40 90 2208 90 91 2208 90 99 Bran, sharps and other residues 2302 10 10 2302 10 90 2302 20 10 2302 20 90 Residues of starch manufacture and similar residues 2303 10 11 Dextrins and other modified starches 3505 10 10 3505 10 90 3505 20 10 3505 20 30 3505 20 50 3505 20 90 Agricultural Products (7) CN code 96 Cheese and curd 0406 20 10 0406 40 10 0406 40 50 0406 90 02 0406 90 03 0406 90 04 0406 90 05 0406 90 06 0406 90 07 0406 90 08 0406 90 09 0406 90 12 0406 90 14 0406 90 16 0406 90 18 0406 90 19 0406 90 23 0406 90 25 0406 90 27 0406 90 29 0406 90 31 0406 90 33 0406 90 35 0406 90 37 0406 90 39 0406 90 61 0406 90 63 0406 90 73 0406 90 75 0406 90 76 0406 90 79 0406 90 81 0406 90 82 0406 90 84 0406 90 85 Wine of fresh grapes, including fortified wines 2204 10 11 2204 10 91 2204 21 11 2204 21 12 2204 21 13 2204 21 17 2204 21 18 2204 21 19 2204 21 22 2204 21 24 2204 21 26 2204 21 27 2204 21 28 2204 21 32 2204 21 34 2204 21 36 2204 21 37 2204 21 38 2204 21 42 2204 21 43 2204 21 44 2204 21 46 2204 21 47 2204 21 48 2204 21 62 2204 21 66 2204 21 67 2204 21 68 2204 21 69 2204 21 71 2204 21 74 2204 21 76 2204 21 77 2204 21 78 2204 21 87 2204 21 88 2204 21 89 2204 21 91 2204 21 92 2204 21 93 2204 21 95 2204 21 96 2204 21 97 2204 29 12 2204 29 13 2204 29 17 2204 29 18 2204 29 42 2204 29 43 2204 29 44 2204 29 46 2204 29 47 2204 29 48 2204 29 71 2204 29 72 2204 29 81 2204 29 82 2204 29 87 2204 29 88 2204 29 89 2204 29 91 2204 29 92 2204 29 93 2204 29 95 2204 29 96 2204 29 97 Undenatured ethyl alcohol 2208 20 12 2208 20 14 2208 20 26 2208 20 27 2208 20 62 2208 20 64 2208 20 86 2208 20 87 2208 30 11 2208 30 19 2208 30 32 2208 30 38 2208 30 52 2208 30 58 2208 30 72 2208 30 78 2208 90 41 2208 90 45 2208 90 52 Footnotes CN code 96 (1) (16/5-15/9) (2) (1/6-15/10) (3) (1/1-31/5) Excluding Emperor variety (4) Emperor variety or (1/6-31/12) (5) (1/1-31/3) (6) (1/10-31/12) (7) (1/4-31/12) (8) (1/1-30/9) (9) (16/10-31/5) (10) (16/9-15/5) (11) Under the Agreement on Trade, Development and Co-operation between the European Community and the Republic of South Africa, the annual growth factor (agf) will be applied annually to the relevant basic quantities. (12) Under the Agreement on Trade, Development and Co-operation between the European Community and the Republic of South Africa, the full specific duty is payable if the respective Entry Price is not reached.
Annex XIV to Protocol 1 FISHERY PRODUCTS TO WHICH ARTICLE 6(3) SHALL TEMPORARILY NOT BE APPLICABLE Fish Products (1) CN code 96 Live fish 0301 10 90 0301 92 00 0301 99 11 Fish, fresh or chilled, excluding fish fillets 0302 12 00 0302 31 10 0302 32 10 0302 33 10 0302 39 11 0302 39 19 0302 66 00 0302 69 21 Fish, frozen, excluding fish fillets 0303 10 00 0303 22 00 0303 41 11 0303 41 13 0303 41 19 0303 42 12 0303 42 18 0303 42 32 0303 42 38 0303 42 52 0303 42 58 0303 43 11 0303 43 13 0303 43 19 0303 49 21 0303 49 23 0303 49 29 0303 49 41 0303 49 43 0303 49 49 0303 76 00 0303 79 21 0303 79 23 0303 79 29 Fish fillets and other fish meat 0304 10 13 0304 20 13 Pasta, whether or not cooked or stuffed 1902 20 10 Fish Products (2) CN code 96 Live fish 0301 91 10 0301 93 00 0301 99 19 Fish, fresh or chilled, excluding fish fillets 0302 11 10 0302 19 00 0302 21 10 0302 21 30 0302 22 00 0302 62 00 0302 63 00 0302 65 20 0302 65 50 0302 65 90 0302 69 11 0302 69 19 0302 69 31 0302 69 33 0302 69 41 0302 69 45 0302 69 51 0302 69 85 0302 69 86 0302 69 92 0302 69 99 0302 70 00 Fish, frozen, excluding fish fillets 0303 21 10 0303 29 00 0303 31 10 0303 31 30 0303 33 00 0303 39 10 0303 72 00 0303 73 00 0303 75 20 0303 75 50 0303 75 90 0303 79 11 0303 79 19 0303 79 35 0303 79 37 0303 79 45 0303 79 51 0303 79 60 0303 79 62 0303 79 83 0303 79 85 0303 79 87 0303 79 92 0303 79 93 0303 79 94 0303 79 96 0303 80 00 Fish fillets and other fish meat 0304 10 19 0304 10 91 0304 20 19 0304 20 21 0304 20 29 0304 20 31 0304 20 33 0304 20 35 0304 20 37 0304 20 41 0304 20 43 0304 20 61 0304 20 69 0304 20 71 0304 20 73 0304 20 87 0304 20 91 0304 90 10 0304 90 31 0304 90 39 0304 90 41 0304 90 45 0304 90 57 0304 90 59 0304 90 97 Fish, dried, salted or in brine; smoked fish 0305 42 00 0305 59 50 0305 59 70 0305 63 00 0305 69 30 0305 69 50 0305 69 90 Crustaceans, whether in shell or not, live, fresh 0306 11 10 0306 11 90 0306 12 10 0306 12 90 0306 13 10 0306 13 90 0306 14 10 0306 14 30 0306 14 90 0306 19 10 0306 19 90 0306 21 00 0306 22 10 0306 22 91 0306 22 99 0306 23 10 0306 23 90 0306 24 10 0306 24 30 0306 24 90 0306 29 10 0306 29 90 Molluscs, whether in shell or not, live, fresh 0307 10 90 0307 21 00 0307 29 10 0307 29 90 0307 31 10 0307 31 90 0307 39 10 0307 39 90 0307 41 10 0307 41 91 0307 41 99 0307 49 01 0307 49 11 0307 49 18 0307 49 31 0307 49 33 0307 49 35 0307 49 38 0307 49 51 0307 49 59 0307 49 71 0307 49 91 0307 49 99 0307 51 00 0307 59 10 0307 59 90 0307 91 00 0307 99 11 0307 99 13 0307 99 15 0307 99 18 0307 99 90 Prepared or preserved fish; caviar and caviar substitutes 1604 11 00 1604 13 90 1604 15 11 1604 15 19 1604 15 90 1604 19 10 1604 19 50 1604 19 91 1604 19 92 1604 19 93 1604 19 94 1604 19 95 1604 19 98 1604 20 05 1604 20 10 1604 20 30 1604 30 10 1604 30 90 Crustaceans, molluscs and other aquatic invertebra 1605 10 00 1605 20 10 1605 20 91 1605 20 99 1605 30 00 1605 40 00 1605 90 11 1605 90 19 1605 90 30 1605 90 90 Fish Products (3) CN code 96 Live fish 0301 91 90 Fish, fresh or chilled, excluding fish fillets 0302 11 90 Fish, frozen, excluding fish fillets 0303 21 90 Fish fillets and other fish meat 0304 10 11 0304 20 11 0304 20 57 0304 20 59 0304 90 47 0304 90 49 Prepared or preserved fish; caviar and caviar substitutes 1604 13 11 Fish Products (4) CN code 96 Live fish 0301 99 90 Fish, fresh or chilled, excluding fish fillets 0302 21 90 0302 23 00 0302 29 10 0302 29 90 0302 31 90 0302 32 90 0302 33 90 0302 39 91 0302 39 99 0302 40 05 0302 40 98 0302 50 10 0302 50 90 0302 61 10 0302 61 30 0302 61 90 0302 61 98 0302 64 05 0302 64 98 0302 69 25 0302 69 35 0302 69 55 0302 69 61 0302 69 75 0302 69 87 0302 69 91 0302 69 93 0302 69 94 0302 69 95 Fish, frozen, excluding fish fillets 0303 31 90 0303 32 00 0303 39 20 0303 39 30 0303 39 80 0303 41 90 0303 42 90 0303 43 90 0303 49 90 0303 50 05 0303 50 98 0303 60 11 0303 60 19 0303 60 90 0303 71 10 0303 71 30 0303 71 90 0303 71 98 0303 74 10 0303 74 20 0303 74 90 0303 77 00 0303 79 31 0303 79 41 0303 79 55 0303 79 65 0303 79 71 0303 79 75 0303 79 91 0303 79 95 Fish fillets and other fish meat 0304 10 31 0304 10 33 0304 10 35 0304 10 38 0304 10 94 0304 10 96 0304 10 98 0304 20 45 0304 20 51 0304 20 53 0304 20 75 0304 20 79 0304 20 81 0304 20 85 0304 20 96 0304 90 05 0304 90 20 0304 90 27 0304 90 35 0304 90 38 0304 90 51 0304 90 55 0304 90 61 0304 90 65 Fish, dried, salted or in brine; smoked fish 0305 10 00 0305 20 00 0305 30 11 0305 30 19 0305 30 30 0305 30 50 0305 30 90 0305 41 00 0305 49 10 0305 49 20 0305 49 30 0305 49 45 0305 49 50 0305 49 80 0305 51 10 0305 51 90 0305 59 11 0305 59 19 0305 59 30 0305 59 60 0305 59 90 0305 61 00 0305 62 00 0305 69 10 0305 69 20 Crustaceans, whether in shell or not, live, fresh 0306 13 30 0306 19 30 0306 23 31 0306 23 39 0306 29 30 Prepared or preserved fish; caviar and caviar substitutes 1604 12 10 1604 12 91 1604 12 99 1604 14 12 1604 14 14 1604 14 16 1604 14 18 1604 14 90 1604 19 31 1604 19 39 1604 20 70 Fish Products (5) CN code 96 Fish, fresh or chilled, excluding fish fillets 0302 69 65 0302 69 81 Fish, frozen, excluding fish fillets 0303 78 10 0303 78 90 0303 79 81 Fish fillets and other fish meat 0304 20 83 Prepared or preserved fish; caviar and caviar substitutes 1604 13 19 1604 16 00 1604 20 40 1604 20 50 1604 20 90 Annex XV to Protocol 1 JOINT DECLARATION ON CUMULATION The Parties agreed that, for the implementation of Article 6(11) of Protocol 1, the following definitions shall apply: developing country: any country listed as such by the Development Aid Committee of the OECD except the High Income Countries (HIC) and the countries with a GNP exceeding in 1992 100 billion dollars at current prices; %gt%TABLE%gt% PROTOCOL 2 on the implementation of Article 9 1.
Both Parties are guided by the conviction that the implementation of Article 9 (4) and (5) would enable them to recognize, at an early stage, problems which could arise and, taking account of all relevant factors, avoid as far as possible recourse to measures which the Community would prefer not to adopt vis--vis its preferential trading partners. 3.
The following two procedures result from this: (a) The statistical surveillance mechanism Without prejudice to internal arrangements that the Community may apply to control its imports, Article 9 (4) provides for the institution of a mechanism intended to ensure statistical surveillance of certain ACP exports to the Community and thus facilitate the examination of occurrences such as to cause market disturbances.
These consultations will take place at the request of either Party. 5.
If the conditions of application of safeguard measures as provided for in Article 8 are fulfilled, it would be the responsibility of the Community, in accordance with Article 9(1) relating to prior consultations concerning the application of safeguard measures, to enter immediately into consultations with the ACP States concerned by providing them with all the information necessary for those consultations, especially the necessary data from which to determine to what extent imports of a specific product from an ACP State or States have caused or threatened to cause serious injury to the Community's domestic producers of like or directly competitive products or serious disturbances in a sector of the economy of the Community or difficulties which could bring about serious deterioration in the economic situation of a region of the Community. 6.
In this case, the interests of the least developed, landlocked and island ACP States will receive particular attention, in accordance with Article 2 of the Agreement.
The Community undertakes for an indefinite period to purchase and import, at guaranteed prices, specific quantities of cane sugar, raw or white, which originate in the ACP States and which these States undertake to deliver to it. 2.
The safeguard clause in Article 10 of the Convention shall not apply.
Without prejudice to Article 7, no change in this Protocol may enter into force until a period of five years has elapsed from the date on which the Convention enters into force.
In each 12-month period from 1 July to 30 June inclusive, hereinafter referred to as the %quot%delivery period%quot%, the sugar-exporting ACP States undertake to deliver the quantities referred to in Article 3 (1), subject to any adjustments resulting from the application of Article 7.
A similar undertaking shall apply equally to the quantities referred to in Article 3 (3) in respect of the period up to 30 June 1975, which shall also be regarded as a delivery period. 2.
The quantities to be delivered up to 30 June 1975, referred to in Article 3 (3), shall include supply en route from port of shipment or, in the case of landlocked States, across frontiers. 3.
Deliveries of ACP cane sugar in the period up to 30 June 1975 shall benefit from the guaranteed prices applicable in the delivery period beginning 1 July 1975.
The Community undertakes to purchase, at the guaranteed price, quantities of white or raw sugar, within agreed quantities, which cannot be marketed in the Community at a price equivalent to or in excess of the guaranteed price. 4.
If, during any delivery period, a sugar-exporting ACP State fails to deliver its agreed quantity in full for reasons of force majeure the Commission shall, at the request of the State concerned, allow the necessary additional period for delivery. 2.
Such reallocation shall be made by the Commission after consultation with the States concerned. 3.
If, during any delivery period, a sugar-exporting ACP State fails to deliver its agreed quantity in full for reasons other than force majeure, that quantity shall be reduced in respect of each subsequent delivery period by the undelivered quantity. 4.
It may be decided by the Commission that, in respect of subsequent delivery periods, the undelivered quantity shall be reallocated between the other States, which are referred to in Article 3.
Article 10 The provisions of this Protocol shall remain in force after the date specified in Article 91 of the Convention.
Declaration by the Community concerning sugar originating in Belize, St-Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla and Suriname a) The Community undertakes to adopt the necessary measures to ensure the same treatment as provided for in Protocol 3, for the following quantities of cane sugar, raw or white, originating in: %gt%TABLE%gt% b) Nevertheless, in respect of the period up to 30 June 1975, the quantities shall be as follows: %gt%TABLE%gt% 3.
Declaration by the Community on Article 10 of Protocol 3 The Community declares that Article 10 of Protocol 3 providing for the possibility of denunciation in that Protocol, under the conditions set out in that Article, is for the purposes of juridical security and does not represent for the Community any qualification or limitation of the principles enunciated in Article 1 of that Protocol(2). (1) Annex XIII to the Final Act of the ACP - EEC Convention. (2) Annex XXII to the Final Act of the ACP - EEC Convention.
Article 1 Within the limits referred to in Article 2, customs duties other than ad valorem duties applicable to beef and veal originating in the ACP States shall be reduced by 92 %.
The Commission shall ensure that a decision is taken by 15 November at the latest.
ANNEX VI LIST OF LDLICS The following lists comprise ACP least-developed, landlocked and Island States: LEAST-DEVELOPED ACP STATES Article 1 Under this Agreement, the following countries shall be considered least-developed ACP States: Angola Benin Burkina Faso Burundi Republic of Cape Verde Central African Republic Chad Comoro Islands Democratic Republic of Congo Djibouti Ethiopia Eritrea Gambia Guinea Guinea (Bissau) Guinea (Equatorial) Hati Kiribati Lesotho Liberia Malawi Mali Mauritania Madagascar Mozambique Niger Rwanda Samoa SoTome and Principe Sierra Leone Solomon Islands Somalia Sudan Tanzania Tuvalu Togo Uganda Vanuatu Zambia LANDLOCKED ACP STATES Article 2 Specific measures and provisions have been made to support landlocked ACP States in their efforts to overcome the geographical difficulties and the other obstacles hampering their development so as to enable them to speed up their respective rates of growth.
Article 3 The landlocked ACP States are: Botswana Burkina Faso Burundi Central African Republic Chad Ethiopia Lesotho Malawi Mali Niger Rwanda Swaziland Uganda Zambia Zimbabwe ISLAND ACP STATES Article 4 Specific measures and provisions have been made to support island ACP States in their efforts to overcome the natural and geographical difficulties and the other obstacles hampering their development so as to enable them to speed up their respective rates of growth.
Article 5 List of island ACP States: Antigua and Barbuda Bahamas Barbados Cape Verde Comoros Dominica Dominican Republic Fiji Grenada Haiti Jamaica Kiribati Madagascar Mauritius Papua New Guinea Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa So Tom and Principe Seychelles Solomon Islands Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tuvalu Vanuatu PROTOCOLS PROTOCOL 1 On the operating expenditure of the Joint Institutions 1.
Expenditure in connection with interpreting at meetings, translation and reproduction of documents, and the practical arrangements for meetings (such as premises, equipment and messengers) of the joint institutions of the present Agreement shall be borne by the Community or by one of the ACP States, according to whether the meetings take place in the territory of a Member State or in that of an ACP State. 2.
To be eligible for the Fund expenses must comply with the following conditions as well as those laid down in paragraph 1: - They must be incurred by parliamentarians or, in their absence, other such ACP representatives travelling from the country they represent in order to take part in sessions of the Joint Parliamentary Assembly, meetings of working parties or missions under their aegis, or as a result of the participation of these same representatives and representatives of ACP civil society and economic and social operators in consultation meetings held under Articles 15 and 17 of the Agreement. - Decisions on the nature, organisation, frequency and location of meetings, missions and working groups must be taken in accordance with the rules of procedure of the Council of Ministers and the Joint Parliamentary Assembly. 4.
The ACP Secretariat, the Council of Ministers and the Joint Parliamentary Assembly may, in agreement with the Commission, delegate the organisation of consultation meetings of ACP civil society to representative organisations approved by the Parties.
Article 3 The archives of the Council of ACP Ministers shall be inviolable.
Article 4 The Council of ACP Ministers, its assets, income and other property shall be exempt from all direct taxes.
Article 5 The Council of ACP Ministers shall be exempt from all customs duties, prohibitions and restrictions on imports in respect of articles intended for its official use; articles so imported may not be sold or otherwise disposed of, whether or not in return for payment, in the territory of the country into which they have been imported, except under conditions approved by the Government or that country.
The Secretary or Secretaries and Deputy Secretary or Deputy Secretaries of the Council of ACP Ministers and the other permanent members of the staff of senior rank as designated by the ACP States, of the Council of ACP Ministers shall enjoy, in the State in which the Council of ACP Ministers is established, under the responsibility of the Chairman-in-Office of the Committee of ACP Ambassadors, the advantages accorded to the diplomatic staff of diplomatic missions.
Article 8 The State in which the Council of ACP Ministers is established shall grant immunity from legal proceedings to permanent members of the staff of the Secretariat of the ACP States, apart from those referred to in paragraph 1 of Article 7, only in respect of acts done by them in the performance of their official duties.
Article 9 The names, positions and addresses of the Chairman-in-Office of the Committee of ACP Ambassadors, the Secretary or Secretaries and Deputy Secretary or Deputy Secretaries of the Council of ACP Ministers and of the permanent members of the staff of the Secretariat of the ACP States shall be communicated periodically by the President of the Council of ACP Ministers to the Government of the State in whose territory the Council of ACP Ministers is established.
Article 12 Article 98 of the Agreement shall apply to disputes relating to this Protocol.
The participation of South Africa in this Agreement is subject to the qualifications set out in this Protocol. 2.
Article 2 General Provisions, Political Dialogue and Joint Institutions 1.
The general, institutional and final provisions of this Agreement shall apply to South Africa. 2.
The provisions of this Agreement on economic and trade cooperation shall not apply to South Africa. 2.
Nonetheless, South Africa shall be associated as an observer in the dialogue between the Parties pursuant to Articles 34 to 40 of this Agreement.
Article 8 Applicability Without prejudice to the previous Articles, the table hereunder sets out those Articles of the Agreement and its Annexes which shall apply to South Africa and those which shall not apply. %gt%TABLE%gt% FINAL ACT The plenipotentiaries of: His Majesty the King of the Belgians, Her Majesty the Queen of Denmark, The President of the Federal Republic of Germany, The President of the Hellenic Republic, His Majesty the King of Spain, The President of the French Republic, The President of Ireland, The President of the Italian Republic, His Royal Highness the Grand Duke of Luxembourg, Her Majesty the Queen of the Netherlands, The Federal President of the Republic of Austria, The President of the Portuguese Republic The President of the Republic of Finland, The Government of the Kingdom of Sweden, Her Majesty the Queen of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Contracting Parties to theTreaty establishing the European Community, hereinafter referred to as %quot%the Community%quot%, the States of the Community being hereinafter referred to as %quot%Member States%quot%, and of the Council of the European Union and the Commission of the European Communities, on the one part, and The plenipotentiaries of: The President of the Republic of Angola, Her Majesty the Queen of Antigua and Barbuda, The Head of State of the Commonwealth of the Bahamas, The Head of State of Barbados, Her Majesty the Queen of Belize, The President of the Republic of Benin, The President of the Republic of Botswana, The President of Burkina Faso, The President of the Republic of Burundi, The President of the Republic of Cameroon, The President of the Republic of Cape Verde, The President of the Central African Republic, The President of the Republic of Chad, The President of the Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros, The President of the Democratic Republic of Congo, The President of the Republic of Congo, The Government of the Cook Islands The President of the Republic of Cte d'Ivoire, The President of the Republic of Djibouti, The Government of the Commonwealth of Dominica, The President of the Dominican Republic, The President of the State of Eritrea, The President of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea, The President of the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia, The President of the Sovereign Democratic Republic of Fiji, The President of the Gabonese Republic, The President and Head of State of the Republic of The Gambia, The President of the Republic of Ghana, Her Majesty the Queen of Grenada, The President of the Republic of Guinea, The President of the Republic of Guinea-Bissau, The President of the Republic of Guyana, The President of the Republic of Haiti, The Head of State of Jamaica, The President of the Republic of Kenya, The President of the Republic of Kiribati, His Majesty the King of the Kingdom of Lesotho, The President of the Republic of Liberia, The President of the Republic of Madagascar, The President of the Republic of Malawi, The President of the Republic of Mali, The Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, The President of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania, The President of the Republic of Mauritius, The Government of the Federated States of Micronesia, The President of the Republic of Mozambique, The President of the Republic of Namibia, The Government of the Republic of Nauru, The President of the Republic of Niger, The President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, The Government of Niue, The Government of the Republic of Palau, Her Majesty the Queen of the Independent State of Papua New Guinea, The President of the Rwandese Republic, Her Majesty the Queen of Saint Kitts and Nevis, Her Majesty the Queen of Saint Lucia, Her Majesty the Queen of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, The Head of State of the Independent State of Samoa, The President of the Democratic Republic of So Tom and Prncipe, The President of the Republic of Senegal, The President of the Republic of Seychelles, The President of the Republic of Sierra Leone, Her Majesty the Queen of the Solomon Islands, The President of the Republic of South Africa, The President of the Republic of Sudan, The President of the Republic of Suriname, His Majesty the King of the Kingdom of Swaziland, The President of the United Republic of Tanzania, The President of the Togolese Republic, His Majesty King Taufa'ahau Tupou IV of Tonga, The President of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago, Her Majesty the Queen of Tuvalu, The President of the Republic of Uganda, The Government of the Republic of Vanuatu, The President of the Republic of Zambia, The Government of the Republic of Zimbabwe, whose States are hereinafter referred to as %quot%ACP States%quot%, of the other part, meeting at Cotonou on June 23 in the year two thousand for the signature of the ACP-EC Partnership Agreement have adopted the following texts: %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% Hecho en Coton, el veintitrs de junio del ao dos mil./Udfrdiget i Cotonou den treogtyvende juni to tusind./Geschehen zu Cotonou am dreiundzwanzigsten Juni zweitausend./  ,      ./Done at Cotonou on the twenty-third day of June in the year two thousand./Fait  Cotonou, le vingt-trois juin deux mille./Fatto a Cotonou, add ventitr giugno duemila./Gedaan te Cotonou, de drientwintigste juni tweeduizend./Feito em Cotonu, em vinte e trs de Junho de dois mil./Tehty Cotonoussa kahdentenakymmenentenkolmantena pivn keskuuta vuonna kaksituhatta./Som skedde i Cotonou den tjugotredje juni tjugohundra.
For Hendes Majestt Danmarks Dronning Fr den Prsidenten der Bundesrepublik Deutschland       Por Su Majestad el Rey de Espaa Pour le Prsident de la Rpublique franaise Thar ceann Uachtarn na hireann For the President of Ireland Per il Presidente della Repubblica italiana Pour Son Altesse Royale le Grand-Duc de Luxembourg Voor Hare Majesteit de Koningin der Nederlanden Fr den Bundesprsidenten der Republik sterreich Pelo Presidente da Repblica Portuguesa Suomen Tasavallan Presidentin puolesta Fr Republiken Finlands President P svenska regeringens vgnar For Her Majesty the Queen of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland Por la Comunidad Europea For Det Europiske Fllesskab Fr die Europische Gemeinschaft     For the European Community Pour la Communaut europenne Per la Comunit europea Voor de Europese Gemeenschap Pela Comunidade Europeia Euroopan yhteisn puolesta P Europeiska gemenskapens vgnar Pour le Prsident de la Rpublique d'Angola For Her Majesty the Queen of Antigua and Barbuda For the Head of State of the Commonwealth of the Bahamas For the Head of State of Barbados For the Government of Belize Pour le Prsident de la Rpublique du Bnin For the President of the Republic of Botswana Pour le Prsident du Burkina Faso Pour le Prsident de la Rpublique du Burundi Pour le Prsident de la Rpublique du Cameroun Pour le Prsident de la Rpublique du Cap-Vert Pour le Prsident de la Rpublique Centrafricaine Pour le Prsident de la Rpublique Fdrale Islamique des Comores Pour le Prsident de la Rpublique dmocratique du Congo Pour le Prsident de la Rpublique du Congo For the Government of the Cook Islands Pour le Prsident de la Rpublique de Cte d'Ivoire Pour le Prsident de la Rpublique de Djibouti For the Government of the Commonwealth of Dominica For the President of the Dominican Republic For the President of the State of Eritrea For the President of the Federal Republic of Ethiopia For the President of the Sovereign Democratic Republic of Fiji Pour le Prsident de la Rpublique gabonaise For the President and Head of State of the Republic of The Gambia For the President of the Republic of Ghana For Her Majesty the Queen of Grenada Pour le Prsident de la Rpublique de Guine Pour le Prsident de la Rpublique de Guine-Bissau Pour le Prsident de la Rpublique de Guine quatoriale For the President of the Republic of Guyana Pour le Prsident de la Rpublique d'Hati For the Head of State of Jamaica For the President of the Republic of Kenya For the President of the Republic of Kiribati For His Majesty the King of the Kingdom of Lesotho For the President of the Republic of Liberia Pour le Prsident de la Rpublique de Madagascar For the President of the Republic of Malawi Pour le Prsident de la Rpublique du Mali For the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands Pour le Prsident de la Rpublique Islamique de Mauritanie For the President of the Republic of Mauritius For the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia Pour le Prsident de la Rpublique du Mozambique For the President of the Republic of Namibia For the Government of the Republic of Nauru Pour le Prsident de la Rpublique du Niger For the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria For the Government of Niue For the Government of the Republic of Palau For Her Majesty the Queen of the Independent State of Papua New Guinea Pour le Prsident de la Rpublique Rwandaise For Her Majesty the Queen of Saint Kitts and Nevis For Her Majesty the Queen of Saint Lucia For Her Majesty the Queen of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines For the Head of State of the Independent State of Samoa Pour le Prsident de la Rpublique dmocratique de So Tom et Prncipe Pour le Prsident de la Rpublique du Sngal Pour le Prsident de la Rpublique des Seychelles For the President of the Republic of Sierra Leone For Her Majesty the Queen of the Solomon Islands For the President of the Republic of South Africa For the President of the Republic of the Sudan For the President of the Republic of Suriname For His Majesty the King of the Kingdom of Swaziland For the President of the United Republic of Tanzania Pour le Prsident de la Rpublique du Tchad Pour le Prsident de la Rpublique togolaise For His Majesty King Taufa'ahau Tupou IV of Tonga For the President of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago For Her Majesty the Queen of Tuvalu For the President of the Republic of Uganda For the Government of the Republic of Vanuatu For the President of the Republic of Zambia For the Government of the Republic of Zimbabwe DECLARATION I Joint Declaration on the actors of the partnership (Article 6) The Parties agree that the definition of civil society may differ significantly according to the socio-economic and cultural conditions of each ACP country.
DECLARATION III Joint Declaration on participation in the Joint Parliamentary Assembly [Article 17(1)] The Parties reaffirm the role of the Joint Parliamentary Assembly in promoting and defending democratic processes through dialogue between members of parliament, and agree that the participation of representatives who are not members of a parliament, as set out in Article 17, shall be allowed only in exceptional circumstances.
DECLARATION V Community Declaration on the financing of the joint institutions The Community, being aware that expenditure in connection with interpreting at meetings and the translation of documents is expenditure incurred essentially for its own requirements, is prepared to continue past practice and meet this expenditure both for meetings of the institutions of the Agreement which take place in the territory of a Member State and those which take place in the territory of an ACP State.
In this context, the host country will, without derogating from the present benefits enjoyed by the ACP Secretariat, the CDE, the CTA and their staff: (1) Show understanding as regards the interpretation of the expression %quot%staff of senior rank%quot%, such an interpretation to be arrived at by mutual agreement; (2) Recognise the powers delegated by the President of the Council of ACP Ministers to the Chairman of the ACP-EC Committee of Ambassadors, in order to simplify implementation of Article 9 of the Protocol; (3) Agree to grant certain facilities to the staff of the ACP Secretariat, the CDE and the CTA to facilitate initial installation in the host country; (4) Examine in an appropriate way tax-related questions concerning the ACP Secretariat, the CDE and the CTA and their staff.
DECLARATION VII Declaration by the Member States relating to the Protocol on privileges and immunities The Member States shall strive, in the context of their respective regulations, to facilitate throughout their respective territories, the movement in pursuit of their official duties of ACP diplomats accredited to the Community, members of the ACP Secretariat referred to in Article 7 of Protocol 2, whose names and positions shall be communicated in accordance with Article 9 of that Protocol, and the ACP executives of the CDE and the CTA.
DECLARATION VIII Joint Declaration relating to the Protocol on privileges and immunities Within the context of their respective regulations, the ACP States shall grant Commission delegations privileges and immunities similar to those granted to diplomatic missions so that they are able to carry out the functions incumbent on them under the Agreement in a satisfactory and effective manner.
The Directive is applicable to shipments of radioactive waste between Member States and into and out of the Community whenever the quantities and concentration exceed the levels laid down in Article 3(2)(a) and (b) of the Council Directive 96/29/Euratom of 13 May 1996.
The Parties shall make every effort to sign and ratify as quickly as possible the Basle Convention on the Control of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and their Disposal, as well as the 1995 amendment to the Convention, as laid down in Decision III/1.
In interpreting and implementing the provisions of Article 32(1)(d) of the Agreement, the ACP States have expressed their determination to be guided by the principles and the provisions of the OAU Resolution on the Control of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and their Disposal in Africa as contained in AHG 182 (XXV).
The Parties express their common will to promote the preservation and enhancement of the cultural heritage of each ACP country, at the international, bilateral and private level and in the context of this Agreement. 2.
DECLARATION XIV Joint Declaration on regional cooperation and the outermost regions (Article 28) The reference to the outermost regions concerns the Spanish autonomous community of the Canary Islands, the four French overseas departments, namely Guadeloupe, Guyana, Martinique and Runion, and the Portuguese autonomous regions of the Azores and Madeira.
DECLARATION XVII Joint Declaration on Article 66 (debt relief) of the Agreement The Parties agree on the following principles: (a) In the longer-term, the Parties will seek an improvement of the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries initiative and promote a deepening, broadening and speeding up debt relief to ACP Countries; (b) The Parties will also seek the mobilisation and establishment of support mechanisms for debt reduction in favour of ACP countries who are not yet eligible for the HIPC initiative.
DECLARATION XVIII EU Declaration on the Financial Protocol Within the overall amount of EUR 13500 million of the 9th EDF, EUR 12500 million shall be made available immediately upon the entry into force of the Financial Protocol.
In order to reap the full benefits of the reform and ensure the efficiency of the programming process, the Community and its Member States reaffirm the political commitment to the following principles: The reviews must as far as possible be carried out in the ACP State concerned.
They have taken note that the Community declares that it will take all the measures required to ensure that the corresponding agricultural regulations are adopted in good time and that, wherever possible, they come into force at the same time as the interim arrangements which will be introduced after the signing of the successor Agreement to the Fourth ACP-EC Convention signed in Lom on 15 December 1989.
The Joint Ministerial Trade Committee shall monitor the implementation of this Declaration and make appropriate reports to the Council of Ministers.
DECLARATION XXIV Joint Declaration on rice 1.
This package of measures will be financed in ACP rice exporting nations on a national basis, by agreement of both Parties, through specific sectoral programmes in accordance with programming rules and methods and in the short term through unallocated EDF resources after a decision of the Council of Ministers. 4.
The Community further undertakes to consult the ACP States on any bilateral or multilateral decisions which may have an impact on the competitive position of the ACP rice industry in the Community market.
In addition, the EC will assist the ACP beef and veal exporters to improve their competitiveness through, inter alia, addressing supply-side constraints, in accordance with the development strategies set out in this Agreement and within the context of National and Regional Indicative Programmes. 3.
DECLARATION XXVII Joint Declaration on the arrangements governing access to the markets of the French overseas departments for products originating in the ACP States referred to in Article 1(2) of Annex V The Parties reaffirm that the provisions of Annex V apply to the relations between the French overseas departments and the ACP States.
The Community shall have the right during the life of the Agreement to amend, in the light of the economic development requirements of the French overseas departments, the arrangements governing access to the latter's markets for products originating in the ACP States referred to in Article 1(2) of Annex V.
Information and consultation procedures shall apply between the parties concerned in accordance with Article 12 of Annex V.
DECLARATION XXVIII Joint Declaration on cooperation between ACP States and the neighbouring overseas countries and territories and French overseas departments The Parties shall encourage greater regional cooperation in the Caribbean, the Pacific and the Indian Ocean involving ACP States and the neighbouring overseas countries and territories and French overseas departments.
The Parties call upon interested Parties to consult each other on the procedure for promoting such cooperation and, in this context, to take measures, in line with their respective policies and their specific situation in the region, which will permit initiatives in the economic field, including the development of trade, as well as in the social and cultural fields.
Where there are trade agreements involving French overseas departments, such agreements may provide for specific measures in favour of products from those departments.
DECLARATION XXX ACP Declaration on Article 1 of Annex V Conscious of the imbalance and the discriminatory effect resulting from the most-favoured-nation treatment applicable to products originating in the ACP States on the Community market under Article 1(2)(a) of Annex V, the ACP States reaffirm their understanding that the consultations provided for under this Article shall ensure that the ACP States' main exportable products benefit from treatment at least as favourable as that granted by the Community to countries enjoying the most-favoured-third-state treatment.
In addition similar consultations shall take place in cases where: (a) one or more ACP States show potentialities for one or more specific products for which preferential third states enjoy more favourable treatment; (b) one or more ACP States envisage exporting to the Community one or more specific products for which preferential third states enjoy more favourable treatment.
DECLARATION XXXI Community Declaration on Article 5(2)(a) of Annex V While agreeing to the reproduction of the text of Article 9(2)(a) of the Second ACP-EEC Convention in Article 5(2)(a) of Annex V, the Community reaffirms the interpretation of that text, namely that the ACP States shall grant to the Community treatment no less favourable than that which they grant to developed States under trade agreements where those States do not grant the ACP States greater preferences than those granted by the Community.
DECLARATION XXXII Joint Declaration on non-discrimination The Parties agree that notwithstanding specific provisions of Annex V to this Agreement, the Community shall not discriminate between ACP States in the trade regime provided for in the framework of that Annex, taking account however of the provisions of this Agreement and of specific autonomous initiatives in the multilateral context, such as that in favour of the least developed countries pursued by the Community.
DECLARATION XXXIV Joint Declaration on Article 12 of Annex V The Parties agree that the consultations referred to in Article 12 of Annex V should take place in accordance with the following procedures: (i) the two Parties will provide all necessary and relevant information on the specific issue(s) in good time to enable an early initiation of the discussions, and in any event not later than one month after the request for consultation is received, (ii) the three-month consultation period will start from the date of receipt of this information.
DECLARATION XXXV Joint Declaration relating to Protocol 1 of Annex V If special tariff treatment were to be applied by the ACP States to imports of products originating in the Community, including Ceuta and Melilla, the provisions of Protocol 1 would apply mutatis mutandis.
DECLARATION XXXVI Joint Declaration relating to Protocol 1 of Annex V 1.
DECLARATION XLI Joint Declaration on Article 6(11) of Protocol 1 of Annex V The Community agrees to consider, in the light of Article 40 of Protocol 1, and on a case-by-case basis, any substantiated requests presented after the signing of the Agreement regarding textile products excluded from cumulation with neighbouring developing countries (Article 6(11) of Protocol 1).
DECLARATION XLII Joint Declaration on rules of origin: cumulation with South Africa The ACP-EC Customs Cooperation Committee is prepared to examine as soon as possible any requests for cumulation of working and processing under Article 6(10) of Protocol 1 of Annex V coming from regional bodies representing a high level of regional economic integration.
DECLARATION XLIII Joint Declaration on Annex 2 to Protocol 1 of Annex V If in the application of the rules contained in Annex II, ACP States' exports are adversely affected, the Community will examine and, where necessary, adopt appropriate corrective measures to remedy the situation with a view to re-establishing the ex-ante situation (Decision 2/97 of the Council of Ministers).
The Community has noted the requests made by ACP States on rules of origin in the context of the negotiations.
The Community agrees to consider any substantiated requests for improvment of the rules of origin contained in Annex II in the light of Article 40 of Protocol 1 and on a case-by-case basis.
