Article 2 Scope 1.
TITLE II RAIL TRANSPORT AND COMBINED TRANSPORT Article 4 General provisions 1.
Article 5 Routes 1.
Should the technical, economic or environmental framework conditions for transit traffic change, making necessary the establishment of additional railroutes, the Transit Committee referred to in Article 21 shall without delay propose to the Parties the requisite amendments to Annex I.
Article 6 Infrastructure measures in Austria In addition to work already carried out to widen tunnels between Kufstein and Brenner to permit the carriage of heavy goods vehicles with a corner height of four metres, Austria undertakes to implement the measures listed in Annex II.
Article 7 Infrastructure measures in the Community In accordance with the Declaration in Annex III regarding the implementation of infrastructure projects on Community territory, the plans of the Member States and, in completion of the works already carried out on the routes referred to in Article 5, the measures listed in Annex IV are to be implemented in the Community.
Article 9 Supporting measures 1.
Article 10 Pricing 1.
Article 11 Crisis situation In the event of a serious disturbance in rail transit, such as a natural disaster, the competent authorities of each Party shall take all possible concerted action to maintain the flow of the traffic concerned within their jurisdiction.
TITLE III ROAD TRANSPORT Article 12 Weights and dimensions of heavy goods vehicles 1.
Article 14 Real costs 1.
Article 15 Reducing pollution (eco points system) 1.
The Parties shall take the necessary regulatory measures for transit traffic through Austria in the interests of environmental protection and public health. 2.
Total NOx emissions from heavy goods vehicles with a laden weight over 7,5 tonnes, registered in one Party and crossing Austria in transit, shall, starting in 1992, be reduced by 60 % in the twelve-year period until the end of 2003.
The initial value and annual reduction therein shall be determined in accordance with paragraphs 4 and 5. 4.
A joint estimate will be made of the total number of journeys by heavy goods vehicles of over 7,5 tonnes registered in each of the Contracting Parties in transit operations for hire or reward, on own account or empty through Austria.
These eco point cards shall be distributed by the Community among its Member States in accordance with its own rules and procedures. 8.
Article 16 Relationship between this Agreement and existing bilateral road haulage traffic agreements 1.
The authorizations provided for in the bilateral agreements between Member States of the Community and Austria shall be replaced by the eco point card provided for in Article 15 if they were used for road haulage transit operations through Austria. 2.
TITLE V GENERAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS Article 18 Non-discrimination The Parties undertake not to take any discriminatory measures falling within the scope of this Agreement or in respect of traffic crossing Member States of the Community.
Article 19 Additional measures Where one of the Parties finds in the course of application of this Agreement that other measures falling within its scope would serve the interests of a coordinated European transport policy and, in particular, help to resolve the problem of trans-Alpine transit, it shall make appropriate proposals to the other.
Article 20 Unilateral measures The Parties shall refrain taking any unilateral measures which discriminate against transit traffic authorized pursuant to this Agreement.
Article 21 Transit Committee 1.
Article 22 Settlement of disputes Any dispute between the Parties concerning the interpretation or application of this Agreement shall be referred to the Transit Committee, which shall endeavour to find a mutually acceptable solution.
Article 24 Entry into force 1.
The time and procedures for the introduction of the eco point system (Article 15) in 1992 shall be established in an administrative agreement.
Article 25 Legal force of the Annexes Annexes I to X shall form an integral part of the Agreement.
Por el Consejo de las Comunidades Europeas For Raadet for De Europaeiske Faellesskaber Fuer den Rat der Europaeischen Gemeinschaften Ãéá ôï Óõìâïýëéï ôùí AAõñùðáúêþí ÊïéíïôÞôùí For the Council of the European Communities Pour le Conseil des Communautés européennes Per il Consiglio delle Comunità Europee Voor de Raad van de Europese Gemeenschappen Pelo Conselho das Comunidades Europeias Diario Oficial de las Comunidades Europeas No L 373/15 21. 12. 92 Por el Gobierno de la República de Austria For Regeringen for Republikken OEstrig Fuer die Regierung der Republik OEsterreich Ãéá ôçí êõâÝñíçóç ôçò AEçìïêñáôssáò ôçò Áõóôñssáò For the Government of the Republic of Austria Pour le gouvernement de la république d'Autriche Per il governo della Repubblica d'Austria Voor de Regering van de Republiek Oostenrijk Pelo Governo da República da Áustria ANNEX I (on Article 5) 1.
ANNEX II (on Article 6) INFRASTRUCTURE MEASURES IN AUSTRIA Austria will implement the following measures to expand rail capacity and so improve rail transport and combined transport: 1.
Short-term measures: - construction of the Innsbruck loop line, - measures affecting safety and operations, - introduction of computer-assisted train monitoring, - new block system arrangements, - installation of points for track changes between stations, - reconstruction of Woergl Station, - extensions to passing tracks in stations. 1.2.
Short-term measures: - continuation of track-doubling, - safety improvements. 2.2.
Short-term measures: - removal of the night-running ban on the Pyhrn section, - removal of the night-running ban on the Hieflau section. 3.2.
Medium-term measures: - station upgrading and conversions, - improvement of safety systems, - shortening of block (signal) sections, - removal of level crossings, - reconstruction of the Traun-Marchtrenk curve, - selective track doubling. 3.3.
AUSTRIAN RAILWAYS' ADDITIONAL CAPACITY FOR CARRIAGE OF GOODS IN TRANSIT THROUGH AUSTRIA: Route Additional capacity: transit goods trains/day (in both directions) Immediate Short-term Medium-term Long-term Brenner 10 (¹) 70 (¹) - 200 (%amp% {highdigit};) Tauern Saltzburg - Villach - Jesenice or Tarvisio 10 (²) 4 (¹) 40 - (¹) Pyhrn (³) - Schober Passau - (Salzburg) - Selzthal - Graz - Spielfeld/Strass 4 (¹) 11 (%amp% {highdigit};) 22 60 (¹) (¹) An additional 28 trains have already been put on as a result of the '1 December 1989 Programme'. (²) Of which four trains are available immediately. (³) Increased capacity on the feeder lines, but less reserve capacity on the Schober Pass section in the short and medium terms. (%amp% {highdigit};) Might, in certain circumstances, be increased to 26 units, but with no reserve capacity on the mountain section over the Schober Pass. (%amp% {highdigit};) This assumes that the Brenner Base Tunnel is built and that feeder lines in neighbouring States are upgraded. 2.
Between 2005 and 2010, a Brenner base tunnel should further double capacity on the Brenner route to as many as 400 trains a day.
ANNEX VI (on Article 10) Declaration relating to Article 10 The Community delegation declares that aids from Community Member States are subject to the provisions of the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Articles 92, 93 and 77 thereof.
CO HC NOx Particulates 4,9 g/kWh 1,23 g/kWh 9,0 g/kWh 0,7 g/kWh %amp% ge; 85 kW 0,4 g/kWh %gt% 85 kW These values are applicable from 1 October 1991 in Austria and 1 July 1992 in the European Community. 2.
The European Community and Austria will endeavour to reduce the COP values of emissions still further in a second stage, relying in doing so on the latest state of the art in environment-friendly motor vehicles and fuel composition.
The Council of the European Community has decided that with effect from 1 October 1996 the following exhaust-gas values will be introduced in the Community: CO HC NOx Particulates 4,0 g/kWh 1,1 g/kWh 7,0 g/kWh 0,3/0,15 g/kWh The Community and Austria shall consult one another in order to prepare for the second stage and, not later than 1 January 1994, shall harmonize the corresponding legal provisions with particular regard to the limit values for particulate emissions. 3.
The following documents shall be submitted for each heavy goods vehicle each time it travels through Austria (in either direction): (a) a document showing the COP value for NOx emissions from the vehicle in question; (b) a valid points card issued by the competent authority.
Concerning (a): in the case of heavy goods vehicle registered after 1 October 1990, the document showing the COP value shall be a certificate issued by the appropriate authority giving details of an official COP value for NOx emissions or the type-approval certificate showing the date of registration and value established for type-approval purposes.
In the case of vehicles registered before 1 October 1990 and vehicles for which no certificate has been submitted, a COP value of 15,8 g/kWh shall be set.
The forecast value multiplied by 1,04 and the number of journeys calculated in accordance with Article 15 (4) (2) will be the number of eco points for the year in question.
