Article 2 For the purpose of this Directive, the definitions given in Article 2 of Council Directive 90/539/EEC of 15 October 1990 on animal health conditions governing intra-Community trade in, and imports from third countries of, poultry and hatching eggs(5) shall apply as appropriate.
When poultry in a holding are suspected of being infected or contaminated with Newcastle disease, Member States shall ensure that the official veterinarian immediately activates official investigation arrangements to confirm or rule out the presence of the disease and, in particular, must take or have taken the samples necessary for laboratory examination. 2.
The competent authority may apply any of the measures provided for in paragraph 2 to other holdings should their location, their configuration or contacts with the holding where the disease is suspected give reason to suspect possible contamination. 5.
The measures referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not be withdrawn until the suspicion of Newcastle disease has been ruled out by the official veterinarian.
This treatment, carried out in accordance with the instructions of the official veterinarian, shall ensure the destruction of any Newcastle-disease virus present; (c) where poultry from the holding have been slaughtered during the presumed incubation period of disease the meat from those poultry shall wherever possible be traced and destroyed; (d) hatching eggs laid during the presumed incubation period which have been moved from the holding shall be traced and destroyed; but poultry which have already hatched from the eggs shall be placed under official surveillance; table eggs laid during the presumed incubation period which have been moved from the holding shall wherever possible be traced and destroyed, unless they have previously been properly disinfected; (e) after carrying out operations listed under (a) and (b), the buildings used for housing poultry, their surroundings, the vehicles used for transport and all equipment likely to be contaminated shall be cleaned and disinfected in accordance with the provisions of Article 11; (f) no poultry shall be reintroduced to the holding until at least 21 days after completion of operations provided for under (e); (g) an epizootiological inquiry shall be carried out in accordance with Article 7. 2.
Where a strain of Newcastle-disease virus with an ICPI (intracerebral pathogenicity index) greater than 0,7 and lower than 1,2 is isolated in a flock of poultry that presents no clinical signs of Newcastle disease and it has been demonstrated by the Community reference laboratory referred to in Article 15 that the virus isolate in question derives from an atenuated live Newcastle-disease vaccine, the competent authority may grant a derogation from the requirements under (a) to (f), of paragraph 1, provided that the holding concerned is placed under official surveillance for 30 days and must require in particular that: - the provisions of Article 4 (2) (a), (b), (d), (e) and (f) are applied, - no poultry may leave the holding except to be taken directly to a slaughterhouse designated by the competent authority.
Fresh meat from the poultry referred to in paragraph (3) of this Article must carry the health mark provided for in Article 5 (1) of Directive 91/494/EEC. 5.
The provisions laid down in paragraph 3 shall be subject to a review taking into account developments in scientific research with a view to adopting harmonized rules for the use of Newcastle-disease vaccines in the Community.
Article 6 In the case of holdings which consist of two or more separate flocks, the competent authority may, in accordance with criteria set by the Commission under the procedure laid down in Article 25, grant a derogation from the requirements of Article 5 (1), for healthy flocks of a holding which is infected, provided that the official veterinarian has confirmed that the operations carried out there are such that the flocks are completely separate as regards housing, keeping and feeding, so that the virus cannot spread from one flock to another.
The epizootiological inquiry shall deal with: - the length of time during which Newcastle disease may have existed on the holding or in the pigeon house; - the possible origin of the Newcastle disease on the holding or in the pigeon house and the identification of other holdings or pigeon houses in which there are poultry, pigeons or other birds kept in captivity which may have become infected or contaminated from the same source; - the movement of persons, poultry, pigeons or other birds kept in captivity or other animals, vehicles, eggs, meat and carcases and any implement or substance likely to have carried Newcastle-disease virus to or from the holding or pigeon house in question. 2.
Where the official veterinarian has reason to suspect that poultry on any holding may have been contaminated as a result of the movement of persons, animals or vehicles or in any other way, that holdings shall be placed under official control in accordance with paragraph 2. 2.
The movement restrictions referred to in this Article shall be imposed for a period of 21 days from the latest date of potential contamination; however, such restrictions must apply for a period of at least seven days. 4.
The special health mark provided for in Article 5 (1) of Directive 91/494/EEC(8) must be applied to this poultry meat; (ii) of day-old chicks or ready-to-lay pullets to a holding within the surveillance zone at which there are no other poultry.
The means of transport used must be cleaned and disinfected before and after use; (g) a prohibition on removing or spreading used litter or poultry manure without authorization; (h) the prohibition of fairs, markets, shows or other gatherings of poultry or other birds. 3.
The measures applied in the protection zone shall be maintained for at least 21 days after the carrying out of preliminary cleaning and disinfection operations on the infected holding in accordance with Article 11.
The measures applied in the surveillance zone shall be maintained for at least 30 days after the carrying out of preliminary cleaning and disinfection operations on the infected holding in accordance with Article 11. 6.
However, if necessary, the protection zone and the surveillance zone shall be established by the procedure provided for in Article 25. 7.
Where the epizootiological enquiry referred to in Article 7 confirms that the outbreak is due to an infection where there is no evidenc of lateral spread, the size and duration of the protection and surveillance zones may be reduced under the procedure laid down in Article 25.
Article 10 Member States shall ensure that: (a) the competent authority determines the arrangements allowing them to trace the movement of eggs, poultry and birds kept in captivity; (b) the owner or keeper of poultry and/or racing pigeons and/or birds kept in captivity is required to supply the competent authority, in response to any request by that authority, with information concerning poultry and eggs entering or leaving his holding, as well as information on the races or shows in which the racing pigeons have taken part; (c) all persons engaged in the transport or marketing of poultry, eggs, racing, pigeons and birds kept in captivity are able to supply the competent authority with information concerning the movements of poultry, eggs, racing pigeons and birds kept in captivity which they have transported or marketed and to furnish all the details concerning such information.
Article 11 Member States shall ensure that: (a) the disinfectants to be used and their concentrations are officially approved by the competent authority; (b) the cleaning and disinfection operations are carried out under official supervision, in accordance with: (i) instructions given by the official veterinarian; (ii) the procedure for cleaning and disinfecting an infected holding, as laid down in Annex II.
Article 12 Collection of samples and laboratory testing to detect the presence of Newcastle-disease virus shall be carried out in accordance with Annex III.
Article 13 Member States shall ensure that the competent authority takes all the necessary measures for persons established in the protection and surveillance zones to be informed of the restrictions in force and make all necessary arrangements for the appropriate implementation of the measures in question.
The national laboratories listed in Annex IV shall liaise with the Community reference laboratory referred to in Article 15.
Article 15 The Community reference laboratory for Newcastle disease is mentioned in Annex V.
Further criteria for using vaccines against Newcastle disease may be established in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 25.
The detailed rules for applying this Article, in particular with respect to the criteria to be adopted, and any derogations that may be granted taking into account the health status of the Member States shall be fixed in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 25.
If the slaughterhouse is located outside the vaccination area the movement of poultry shall be permitted only after the official veterinarian has carried out a health inspection of the holding; (d) when the vaccination operations provided for in (a) have been completed movements out of the vaccination area may be authorized for: - day-old chicks intended for meat production may be moved to a holding where they shall be vaccinated; the holding in question must be kept under surveillance until the poultry which have been moved have been slaughtered; - poultry vaccinated more than 21 days previously and intended for immediate slaughter; - hatching eggs which originate from breeding poultry vaccinated at least 21 days previously; the eggs and their packing must be disinfected before movement. 4.
The measures provided for in (b) and (d) of paragraph 3 shall be applied for a period of three months following completion of vaccination operations provided for in paragraph 1; they may be extended for one or more additional periods of three months. 5.
The Commission shall follow the development of the disease situation and if necessary it may, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 25, take a decision in particular in relation to control of movement and vaccination.
Where carrier pigeons or birds kept in captivity are suspected of being infected with Newcastle disease, Member States shall ensure that the official veterinarian immediately starts the official investigation procedures for confirming or notifying the presence of the disease; in particular, he shall take adequate samples for laboratory examination or see that they are taken. 2.
The measures provided for in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not be withdrawn until the suspicion of Newcastle disease has been ruled out by the official veterinarian. 4.
As soon as the presence of Newcastle disease has been officially confirmed, the competent authority shall, inter alia, order: (a) application of the control and eradication measures provided for in Article 5 (1) (a), (b), (e) and (f) to the carrier pigeons or birds kept in captivity and pigeon houses infected with Newcastle disease; or (b) at least (i) a ban on movement of the pigeons or birds kept in captivity outside the pigeon house or holding for at least 60 days after the clinical signs of Newcastle disease have disappeared; (ii) destruction or treatment of any matter or waste likely to be contaminated.
Plans drawn up in accordance with the criteria listed in Annex VII shall be submitted to the Commission not later than six months after this Directive is brought into application. 4.
Article 22 Commission experts may, in collaboration with the competent authorities, and insofar as is necessary to ensure uniform application of this Directive, make on-the-spot checks.
The general provisions for implementing this Article shall be determined in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 25.
Article 23 The detailed conditions governing the Community's financial contribution to the measures connected with the application of this Directive are laid down in Decision 90/424/EEC.
Article 24 The Annexes shall be amended, as and when required, by the Council acting by a qualified majority acting on a proposal from the Commission, in particular in order to take into account developments in research and in diagnostic procedures.
Article 27 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
ANNEX II PROCEDURE FOR CLEANING AND DISINFECTING AN INFECTED HOLDING I.
The suspensions should be left for about two hours at ambient temperature (or longer periods at 4 °C) and then clarified by centrifugation (e.g. 800 to 1 000 g for 10 minutes). 3.
High concentrations of antibiotics are required for faeces samples and a typical mixture is: 10 000 units/ml penicillin, 10 mg/ml streptomycin, 0,25 mg/ml gentamycin and 5 000 units/ml mycostatin in phosphate buffered saline (PBS) These levels can be reduced up to five-fold for tissues and tracheal swabs.
For control of Chlamydia organisms, 50 mg/ml oxytetracycline may be added.
CHAPTER 2 Virus isolation Virus isolation in embryonated fowls' eggs The clarified supernatent fluid should be inoculated in 0,1-0,2 ml amounts into the allantoic cavity of each of a minimum of four embryonated, fowls' eggs which have been incubated for 8 to 10 days.
The inoculated eggs are held at 37 °C and candled daily.
If bacteria are present the fluids may be passed through a 450 nm membrane filter, further antibiotics added and inoculated into embryonated eggs as above.
CHAPTER 3 Differential diagnosis 1.
The haemagglutinating fluids should, therefore, be used in an haemagglutination inhibition test as described in Chapters 5 and 6.
CHAPTER 4 Rapid tests for detection of Newcastle-disease virus and antibodies Rapid tests for the detection of Newcastle disease virus in vaccinated birds and the detection of antibodies in unvaccinated birds are outlined below: 1.
The blood should be allowed to clot and serum removed for testing. (b) Examination for antibodies Individual serum samples should be tested for their ability to inhibit Newcastle disease virus haemagglutinating antigen in standard haemagglutination inhibition tests as defined in Chapter 6.
CHAPTER 5 Haemagglutination (HA) test Reagents 1.
CHAPTER 7 Intracerebral pathogenicity index test 1.
It is important that no serum is added to the overlay medium. 5.
After 72 hours, incubation at 37 °C the plaques should be of sufficient size.
They are best seen by removing the agar overlay and staining the cell monolayer with crystal violet (0,5 % w/v) in 25 % v/v ethanol. 6.
ANNEX IV LIST OF NATIONAL NEWCASTLE DISEASE LABORATORIES BELGIUM Institut National de Recherches Vétérinaires Groeselenberg 99 B-1180 Bruxelles DENMARK National Veterinary Laboratory Poultry Disease Division Hangoevej 2 DK-8200 Aarhus N.
ANNEX VI NEWCASTLE DISEASE - RACING PIGEONS - BIRDS KEPT IN CAPTIVITY 1.
Location of: - pigeon house: . - holding: . 2.
Name(s) and address(es) of owner(s): . . . 3.
