Council Regulation (EC) No%nbsp%713/2005 of 10 May 2005 imposing a definitive countervailing duty on imports of certain broad spectrum antibiotics originating in India Council Regulation (EC) No 713/2005 of 10 May 2005 imposing a definitive countervailing duty on imports of certain broad spectrum antibiotics originating in India THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, Having regard to Council Regulation (EC) No 2026/97 of 6 October 1997 on protection against subsidised imports from countries not members of the European Community [1] (the basic Regulation), and in particular Articles 18 and 19 thereof, Having regard to the proposal submitted by the Commission after consulting the Advisory Committee, Whereas: A.
Previous investigation and existing measures (1) The Council, by Regulation (EC) No 2164/98 [2], imposed a definitive countervailing duty on imports of certain broad spectrum antibiotics, namely amoxicillin trihydrate, ampicillin trihydrate and cefalexin not put up in measured doses or in forms or packings for retail sale (the product concerned) falling within CN codes ex29411010, ex29411020 and ex29419000 originating in India.
The measures took the form of an ad valorem duty ranging between 0 and 12 % imposed on imports from individually named exporters with a residual duty rate of 14,6 % imposed on imports from other exporters.
Request for a combined expiry and interim review (2) Following the publication of a notice of impending expiry [3] of the definitive measures in force, the Commission received a request for the initiation of a combined expiry and interim review of Regulation (EC) No 2164/98 pursuant to Articles 18(2) and 19(2) of the basic Regulation, from related Community producers of the like product, Sandoz GmbH, Austria, and Sandoz Industrial Products SA, Spain, (the applicants).
Initiation of a combined expiry and interim review (5) The Commission examined the evidence submitted by the applicants and considered it sufficient to justify the initiation of a review in accordance with the provisions of Articles 18(2) and 19(2) of the basic Regulation.
Investigation period (6) The investigation covered the period from 1 April 2002 to 31 March 2003 (the review investigation period or IP).
The examination of trends in the context of injury covered the period from 1 January 1999 up to the end of the review investigation period (the period considered).
Parties concerned by the investigation (7) The Commission officially informed the applicants, other known Community producers, exporting producers, importers, upstream suppliers, users and the GOI of the initiation of the investigation.
The written and oral comments submitted by the parties were considered and, where appropriate, taken into account. (8) In view of the apparently large number of exporting producers of the product concerned in India which were named in the request, the use of sampling techniques for the investigation of subsidisation was envisaged in accordance with Article 27 of the basic Regulation. (9) However, only a limited number of exporting producers made themselves known and provided the information requested for sampling.
Therefore, the use of sampling techniques was not considered necessary. (10) The Commission sent questionnaires to all parties known to be concerned who made themselves known within the deadlines set in the notice of initiation.
Government of India Ministry of Commerce, New Delhi. 3.
cefalexin, and claim that therefore in respect of this type the initiation of the investigation should be made void. (14) In response to this submission, it should be recalled that already in the original investigation it was established that all types of the product under investigation (see below under Section B) constitute one single category of product [5].
Thus, since all types form one product for the purpose of this proceeding, which is produced by the applicants, this argument has to be refuted. (15) The GOI and one exporting producer contended that the non-confidential questionnaire replies of the Community producers were not sufficiently detailed and not filed in accordance with Article 29 of the basic Regulation.
Therefore, the non-confidential questionnaire replies of the Community producers are still considered in line with the provisions of Article 29 of the basic Regulation.
Product concerned (17) The product covered by this review is the same product as the one concerned by Council Regulation (EC) No 2164/98, namely amoxicillin trihydrate, ampicillin trihydrate and cefalexin not put up in measured doses or in forms or packings for retail sale falling within CN codes ex29411010, ex29411020 and ex29419000 originating in India (the product concerned).
Like product (18) During the post-disclosure hearing the GOI and one exporting producer have drawn attention to the fact that one Community producer mentioned certain differences in "stability, purity, assay, galenical properties etc." when comparing the product concerned and the like product.
One Export and Import Policy document is relevant to the review investigation period of this case; i.e.
In this case, these three schemes and the regional schemes investigated were not investigated during the original investigation. (28) However, the relevant provisions of the basic Regulation concerning interim and expiry reviews do not stipulate such a narrow approach in reviews.
Thus, an interim review concerning subsidisation can lead per se to a complete re-evaluation of the subsidisation framework, not just the subsidy schemes originally investigated, which possibly could benefit the product concerned.
Manufacturer-exporters and merchant-exporters "tied to" supporting manufacturers are eligible for the ALS physical exports and for the ALS for annual requirement.
SIONs exist for most products including the product concerned and are published in the HOP II 02-07. (34) In the case of the subscheme (ii) listed above under recital 31 (ALS for annual requirement), only the import allowance in value is documented on the licence.
The licence holder is obliged to "maintain the nexus between imported inputs and the resultant product" (paragraph 4.24A(c) HOP I 02-07). (35) Imported input materials are not transferable and have to be used to produce the resultant export product.
They claimed that the ALS operates as a permitted drawback or substitution drawback system, which allegedly resembles the EC inward processing system, with a verification system in conformity with the provisions of Annexes I, II and III of the basic Regulation in place to monitor the nexus between duty free imported inputs and the resultant export products.
a financial contribution of the GOI which conferred a benefit upon the investigated exporters. (39) In addition, ALS physical exports, ALS for annual requirement and ALS for intermediate supply are clearly contingent in law upon export performance, and therefore deemed to be specific and countervailable under Article 3(4)(a) of the basic Regulation.
The objective of an EOU/SEZ is exportation as set out in paragraph 6.1 of the EXIM-policy 02-07.
In addition, the GOI did not carry out a further examination based on actual inputs involved, although this would normally need to be carried out in the absence of an effectively applied verification system (Annex II(II)(5) and Annex III(II)(3) to the basic Regulation), nor did it prove, that no excess remission took place.
In accordance with Article 7(1)(a) of the basic Regulation, fees necessarily incurred to obtain the subsidy were deducted from the subsidy amounts where justified claims were made.
In accordance with Article 7(2) of the basic Regulation, these subsidy amounts have been allocated over the export turnover generated by the product concerned during the review investigation period as appropriate denumerator, because the subsidy is contingent upon export performance and was not granted by reference to the quantities manufactured, produced, exported or transported. (47) Six companies benefited from this scheme during the review investigation period and obtained subsidies of between 22,0 and 25,8 % (see table in recital 154). 2.
Therefore, there is no possibility for a retroactive amendment to the level of the benefit. (52) It was also found that in accordance with Indian accounting standards, DEPBS credits can be booked on an accrual basis as income in the commercial accounts, upon fulfilment of the export obligation. (53) Such credits can be used for payment of customs duties on subsequent imports of any goods unrestrictedly importable, except capital goods.
Goods imported against such credits can be sold on the domestic market (subject to sales tax) or used otherwise. (54) DEPBS credits are freely transferable and valid for a period of 12 months from the date of issue. (55) An application for DEPBS credits can cover up to 25 export transactions and, if electronically filed, an unlimited amount of export transactions.
They submitted that (i) contrary to the findings in recitals 53 and 59 materials imported under the DEPBS allegedly have to be used for export production and DEPBS credit can allegedly only be obtained if goods are exported which bear import duties on its input materials, (ii) the new calculation methodology for countervailable amounts (focus on the export transaction, see recitals 61 and 62) should not be used, because a benefit is allegedly only conferred upon usage of the credit and for the reason that the new approach discriminatorily departs from earlier EC precedence, (iii) DEBPS should only be countervailed to the extent that such credits were obtained for the product concerned and (iv) a DEPBS-rate reduction which took place in February 2004 should be taken into consideration. (e) Conclusions on the DEPBS (57) The DEPBS provides subsidies within the meaning of Article 2(1)(a)(ii) and Article 2(2) of the basic Regulation.
In addition, the DEPBS credit confers a benefit upon the exporter, because it improves its liquidity. (58) Furthermore, the DEPBS is contingent in law upon export performance, and therefore deemed to be specific and countervailable under Article 3(4)(a) of the basic Regulation. (59) This scheme cannot be considered a permissible duty drawback system or substitution drawback system within the meaning of Article 2(1)(a)(ii) of the basic Regulation.
Moreover, there is no system or procedure in place to confirm which inputs are consumed in the production process of the exported product or whether an excess payment of import duties occurred within the meaning of item (i) of Annex I and Annexes II and III of the basic Regulation.
Thus, even exporters which procure all of their inputs locally and do not import any goods which can be used as inputs are still entitled to benefit from the DEPBS. (60) Neither the claim made by one exporter that materials imported under this scheme have to be used for export production nor the allegation that DEPBS credits can only be obtained under the condition that input material used bears an import duty burden, have been substantiated.
Furthermore, the disclosure comments have confirmed that at the moment of the export transaction made under this scheme, an exporter has obtained an irrevocable entitlement for DEPBS credits.
On the contrary, DEPBS credits are freely transferable, can even be sold and be used for imports of any unrestrictedly importable goods (the input materials of the product concerned belong to this category), except capital goods.
Consequently, the product concerned can benefit from all DEPBS credits generated. (65) Furthermore, DEPBS rate reductions subsequent to the review investigation period cannot be considered, since Article 11(1) of the basic Regulation provides that information relating to a period subsequent to the IP shall not, normally, be taken into account.
In accordance with Article 7(2) of the basic Regulation these subsidy amounts have been allocated over the total export turnover during the review investigation period as appropriate denumerator, because the subsidy is contingent upon export performance and it was not granted by reference to the quantities manufactured, produced, exported or transported.
SEZs are specifically delineated duty free enclaves and considered by the EXIM-policy 02-07 as foreign territory for the purpose of trade operations, duties and taxes. 14 SEZs already operate and another 13 SEZs have been approved by the Indian authorities for establishment. (70) EOUs on the other side, are geographically more flexible and can be established anywhere in India.
For instance, only an EOU can obtain a 50 % reduction of duties payable upon domestic sales (DTA sales), whereas in an SEZ 100 % of the duties are payable on such sales.
An EOU unit can sell up to 50 % of its turnover domestically at such reduced rate. (75) Units operating under these schemes are bonded under the surveillance of customs officials in accordance with Section 65 of the Customs Act. (76) They are legally obliged to maintain, in a specified format, a proper account of all imports, of the consumption and utilisation of all imported materials and of the exports made.
These documents should be submitted periodically, as may be required, to the competent authorities (quarterly and annual progress reports). (77) However, "at no point in time (an EOU or a SEZ unit) shall be required to co-relate every import consignment with its exports, transfers to other units, sales in DTA or stocks", paragraph 10.2 of appendix 14-I and paragraph 13.2 of appendix 14-II of the HOP I 02-07. (78) Domestic sales are dispatched and recorded on a self-certification basis.
Thus, it availed of all benefits as described in recital 73 (i) to (iv).
The exporter further pointed out that its domestic sales constituted less the 5 % of its sales during the IP.
It also claimed that the periodical assessment of the monthly sales tax returns by the GOI is sufficient to meet the verification standards set by the basic Regulation. (82) Furthermore it contended, that (i) for calculation purposes not the amount of raw materials imported during the review investigation period as set out in recital 19 of the annual progress report of this EOU should be taken, but the amount of raw materials consumed during this period as set out in recital 20 of this report and (ii) the allocation period concerning duties saved upon importation of capital goods should be based on the company specific depreciation period and not on the basis of an average depreciation period for all cooperating exporting producers.
Government revenue which would be due in the absence of this scheme is forgone, thus, in addition, conferring a benefit upon the EOU in the meaning of Article 2(2) of the basic Regulation, because it saved liquidity by not having to pay duties normally due and by obtaining a sales tax reimbursement. (84) The exemption from excise duty and its import duty equivalent (additional customs duty), however, do not lead to revenue forgone which is otherwise due.
They are contingent in law upon export performance, and therefore deemed to be specific and countervailable under Article 3(4)(a) of the basic Regulation.
The export objective of an EOU as set out in paragraph 6.1 of the EXIM-policy 02-07 is a conditio sine qua non to obtain the incentives. (86) Furthermore, these subsidies cannot, contrary to the submission made by one exporter, be considered as permissible duty drawback systems or substitution drawback systems within the meaning of Article 2(1)(a)(ii) of the basic Regulation.
The alleged comparability of the EOUS with the EC inward processing system is in this context irrelevant since the EC system is not subject to the present investigation. (87) In so far as the sales tax reimbursement and import duty exemption provisions are used for purchasing capital goods, they are already not in conformity with the rules for permitted drawback systems, because those goods are not consumed in the production process, as required by Annex I item (h) (sales tax reimbursement) and (i) (import duties remission).
The exporter objected to this analysis and argued that since capital goods are necessary for production, they cannot be per se excluded from any permitted duty drawback.
The argument is therefore rejected. (88) In addition, and also concerning the other benefits which are available under this scheme, despite careful consideration of the submissions made by the exporter, it was confirmed that the GOI has no effective verification system or procedure in place to confirm whether and in what amounts duty and or sales tax free procured inputs were consumed in the production of the exported product (Annex II(II)(4) of the basic Regulation and, in the case of substitution drawback schemes, Annex III(II)(2) of the basic Regulation). (89) An EOU is allowed to sell a significant amount of its production, up to 50 % of its annual turnover, on the domestic market.
It was considered that the EOU subject to the present investigation did not sell 50 % domestically but only around 5 % of its annual turnover during the IP.
However, this has no impact on the more general assessment of the adequacy of the verification system in place. (90) Concerning further verification steps installed it should be recalled, as mentioned under recital 77 and confirmed by the submissions of the exporter, that an EOU is already de jure and at no point in time required to co-relate every import consignment with the destination of the corresponding resultant product.
Consequently it is confirmed that, since an EOU is explicitly not required by the Indian EXIM policy to record the nexus between input materials and the resultant product, no effective control mechanism was set up by the GOI to determine which inputs were consumed in export production and in what amounts. (91) Also, the GOI neither carried out a further examination based on actual inputs involved, although this would normally need to be carried out in the absence of an effective verification system (Annex II(II)(5) and Annex III(II)(3) to the basic Regulation), nor did it prove that no excess remission took place.
Fees necessarily incurred to obtain the subsidy were deducted in accordance with Article 7(1)(a) of the basic Regulation from this sum to arrive at the subsidy amount as numerator.
The subsidy margin thus obtained was 29,6 %. (ii) Exemption from import duties (basic customs duty and special additional customs duty) on capital goods (95) Unlike raw materials, capital goods are not physically incorporated into the finished goods.
Fees necessarily incurred to obtain the subsidy were deducted in accordance with Article 7(1)(a) of the basic Regulation from this sum to arrive at the subsidy amount as numerator.
In accordance with Article 7(2) and (3) of the basic Regulation this subsidy amount has been allocated over the export turnover generated by the sector during the review investigation period as appropriate denumerator, because the subsidy is contingent upon export performance and it was not granted by reference to the quantities manufactured, produced, exported or transported.
The subsidy margin thus obtained was 1,3 %. (96) Thus, the total subsidy margin under the EOUS for the company concerned amounts to 30,9 %. 4.
Since April 2000 the scheme provides for a reduced import duty rate of 5 % applicable to all capital goods imported under the scheme.
Until 31 March 2000, an effective duty rate of 11 % (including a 10 % surcharge) and, in case of high value imports, a zero duty rate were applicable.
In order to meet the export obligation, the imported capital goods must be used to produce a certain amount of export goods during a certain period. (100) The EPCGS licence holder can also source the capital goods indigenously.
The duty reduction constitutes a financial contribution by the GOI, since this concession decreases the GOI’s duty revenue which would be otherwise due.
Therefore it is deemed to be specific and countervailable under Article 3(4)(a) of the basic Regulation. (104) Eventually, this scheme can not be considered a permissible duty drawback system or substitution drawback system within the meaning of Article 2(1)(a)(ii) of the basic Regulation.
The commercial interest rate during the review investigation period in India was considered appropriate for this purpose.
Fees necessarily incurred to obtain the subsidy were deducted in accordance with Article 7(1)(a) of the basic Regulation from this sum to arrive at the subsidy amount as numerator.
In accordance with Article 7(2) and 7(3) of the basic Regulation this subsidy amount has been allocated over the export turnover during the review investigation period as appropriate denumerator, because the subsidy is contingent upon export performance and it was not granted by reference to the quantities manufactured, produced, exported or transported.
Another exporter argued without providing any evidence that the loan amount should be reduced by 25 %, which allegedly represents own capital, although in the accounts identified as foreign capital. (e) Conclusion on the ECS (113) Firstly, the preferential interest rates of an ECS credit set by the RBI Master Circulars mentioned in recital 107 can decrease interest costs of an exporter as compared with credit costs purely set by market conditions and confer in this case a benefit in the meaning of Article 2(2) of the basic Regulation on such exporter.
Rate differences with regard to different banks are the result of the methodology of the RBI to set maximum lending rates for each commercial bank individually.
Secondly, and despite the fact that the preferential credits under the ECS are granted by commercial banks, this benefit is a financial contribution by a government in the meaning of Article 2(1)(iv) of the basic Regulation.
It is 100 % government-owned, pursues public policy objectives, e.g.
This direction obliges commercial banks to carry out functions mentioned in Article 2(1)(a)(i) of the basic Regulation, in this case loans in the form of preferential export financing.
The late claim made by one exporter that the credit amount as verified during the on the spot visit should be reduced by 25 % because it allegedly consisted to this extent of own founds, something not mentioned before or even during the verification visit, has not been substantiated and, therefore, cannot be accepted.
Consequently, 80HHC of the ITA will not confer any benefits on the applicant after 31 March 2004.
While four of the investigated exporters benefited from this scheme in the review investigation period, insofar as the scheme has since been withdrawn, it shall therefore not be countervailed, in accordance with Article 15(1) of the basic Regulation. (ii) Sections 10A and 10B of the ITA (117) The full income tax exemption on profits derived from export sales of a newly established undertaking in a SEZ, a free trade zone, an electronic hardware technology park or a software technology park (section 10A ITA) or a newly established EOU (section 10B ITA) during the first 10 years of production continues to be in force till 31 March 2010. (118) One company availed during the past 10 years of benefits under section 10B ITA, starting in the financial year 1993 to 1994.
The artificial income tax base reduction under section 35(2AB) of the ITA constitutes a financial contribution by the GOI, since this decreases the GOI’s income tax revenue which would be otherwise due.
In addition, the income tax reduction confers a benefit upon the company, because it improves its liquidity. (124) The GOI argued and reiterated upon disclosure without substantiating it, that eligibility for ITIRAD is based on objective criteria and thus the scheme is not specific.
Eligibility for this scheme is not governed by objective criteria, which are neutral in the meaning of Article 3(2)(b) of the basic Regulation.
This restriction is not economic in nature and horizontal in application such as number of employees or size of enterprise. (125) In addition, the claim that expenditure incurred after 31 March 2005 is exempt from the scheme does not lead to its non-countervailability in the meaning of Article 15(1) of the basic Regulation.
They constitute a financial contribution by the GOG and the GOP respectively, since the incentives granted, in the present case sales and purchase tax exemptions, decrease tax revenue which would be otherwise due.
In addition, these incentives confer a benefit upon a company, because they improve its financial situation since taxes otherwise due are not paid. (134) Furthermore, the schemes are regionally specific in the meaning of Articles 3(2)(a) and 3(3) of the basic Regulation since they are only available to certain companies having invested within certain designated geographical areas within the jurisdiction of the States concerned.
They are not available to companies located outside these areas and, in addition, the level of benefit is differentiated according to the area concerned. (135) The GOI does not share this assessment.
However, and contrary to the disclosure submissions by two exporters in this respect as well, the scheme was not assessed as an export subsidy, within the meaning of Article 3(4)(a) of the basic Regulation, with a direct focus on exports of the product concerned, but as otherwise specific (see recital 134).
In addition, the GOI has provided no evidence that the general sales tax exemption for export sales covers purchase tax liabilities on input materials as well.
In fact, in the present case, the companies have also used the IIS to offset purchase tax liabilities. (136) The GOI further contended that the IIS, although admittedly limited to certain backward regions within the territories of Punjab and Gujarat, should not be considered as specific, because they allegedly do not favour certain enterprises within these specially designated regions.
However, the GOI admitted that not all kinds of production within those designated territories are eligible for the IIS.
Such a differentiation is not objective within the meaning of Article 3(2)(b) of the basic Regulation and therefore specific, since the schemes are not horizontally applied all over the State territory. (137) An alleged compensation via the IIS for extra costs incurred due to insufficient infrastructure does not, contrary to the submission made by one exporter, change the evaluation as a countervailable subsidy.
In accordance with Article 7(2) of the basic Regulation, these amounts of subsidy (numerator) have then been allocated over total sales during the review investigation period as appropriate denominator, because the subsidy is not export contingent and it was not granted by reference to the quantities manufactured, produced, exported or transported.
In addition, it confers a benefit upon the recipient company.
Although requested to do so, the company did not provide any information other than the Bombay Electricity Duty Act itself, which could have changed this analysis. (147) The GOI argued that since the scheme has not been countervailed in another case in 1999, because it was considered horizontal in application within a whole State, it should not be countervailed now.
In addition, it should be noted that according to this notification, the EDE-incentive is apparently not available in all districts/areas of Maharashtra, thus still to be considered regionally specific.
It was established that one exporter under investigation, which is situated in Gujarat, used this scheme during the review investigation period.
Furthermore, according to European Customs law parties are deemed to be related when they control each other or are members of the same family [9]. (153) Upon disclosure one of these exporting producers disagreed with the related parties’ analysis as set out above.
However, the exporting producer did neither contest the factual description outlined in recital 152 nor substantiated, why, despite these facts, both companies should not be considered as related parties.
The amount of countervailable subsidies in accordance with the provisions of the basic Regulation, expressed ad valorem, for the investigated exporting producers ranges between 25,3 and 35,1 %. (154) Given the high level of cooperation, the subsidy rate for all non-cooperating companies is set at the level for the company with the highest individual rate, i.e. 35,1 %.
SCHEME → | ALS | DEPBS | EOUS | EPCGS | ECS | ITIRAD | PSI | GIIS | PIIS | EDE | Total | COMPANY ↓ | % | % | % | % | % | % | % | % | % | % | % | KDL Biotech Ltd | 22,8 | 4,6 | nil | negl. | 1,0 | nil | nil | nil | nil | nil | 28,4 | Nectar Lifesciences Ltd | 25,8 | 3,2 | nil | negl. | 2,3 | nil | nil | nil | 2,4 | nil | 33,7 | Nestor Pharmaceuticals Ltd | 22,0 | 3,3 | nil | nil | negl. | nil | nil | nil | nil | nil | 25,3 | Orchid Chemicals %amp% Pharmaceuticals Ltd | nil | nil | 30,9 | nil | 1,1 | nil | nil | nil | nil | nil | 32,0 | Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd | 25,6 | 8,0 | nil | negl. | negl. | 1,5 | nil | nil | nil | nil | 35,1 | Surya Pharmaceutical Ltd | 25,8 | 3,2 | nil | negl. | 2,3 | nil | nil | nil | 2,4 | nil | 33,7 | Torrent Gujarat Biotech Ltd | 24,8 | nil | nil | nil | nil | nil | nil | 3,1 | nil | 0,2 | 28,1 | D.
LIKELIHOOD OF CONTINUATION OR RECURRENCE OF SUBSIDISATION (155) In accordance with Article 18(2) of the basic Regulation, it was examined whether the expiry of the measures in force would be likely to lead to a continuation or recurrence of subsidisation. (156) As set out under recitals 21 to 153, it was established that during the review investigation period Indian exporters of the product concerned continued to benefit from countervailable subsidisation by the Indian authorities.
In fact, the subsidy margins found during the review are higher than those established during the original investigation, which ranged from 0 to 15,3 % (recital 43 of Council Regulation (EC) No 2164/98).
Only the subsidy scheme mentioned under recitals 115 and 116 (80 HHC ITA) has been discontinued, while in some other cases, individual companies have ceased to become eligible for certain schemes.
In these circumstances, it was considered reasonable to conclude that subsidisation would be likely to continue in the future. (157) Since it has been demonstrated that subsidisation continued at the time of the review and will likely continue in the future, the issue of likelihood of recurrence of subsidisation is irrelevant.
COMMUNITY INDUSTRY I.
DSM supported the request.
Sandoz and DSM fully cooperated with the review investigation.
The other Community producers neither cooperated nor opposed the initiation of this combined expiry and interim review. (159) One cooperating Community producer imported two types of the product concerned from India during the period considered, as well as from other third countries.
This activity does not change its qualification as a producer in the meaning of Article 9(1) of the basic Regulation.
Compared to its Community production of the like product, the quantities imported from India during the review investigation period represented only a relatively minor proportion of less than 10 %.
Furthermore, its imports of the product concerned from India are only of a temporary nature since it is restructuring its production in the Community and it has started producing types of the like product which it has been importing from, inter alia, India.
Definition of the Community industry (160) The like product produced by the cooperating Community producers during the review investigation period represented 70,5 % of the total Community production of the like product.
In any event, the information available indicates that there is no production of the like product in the 10 new Member States, which could alter the situation of the Community industry. (166) In addition, as a general comment, it was submitted by one exporter without further substantiation that the injury analysis as disclosed did not consider all factors stipulated in Article 8 of the basic Regulation and was not based on positive evidence. (167) Concrete claims to specific aspects of the injury analysis will be addressed in the context of the respective part of the analysis below.
However, in reply to the general comment it should be mentioned that, (i) the basis for the injury analysis were verified facts supported by evidence and (ii) as set out below all import related factors of Article 8(2) of the basic Regulation, all 17 indicators of Article 8(5) of the basic Regulation related to the situation of the Community industry and all known factors other than subsidised imports of Article 8(7) of the basic Regulation have been assessed.
Determination of the relevant Community market (168) In order to establish whether or not the Community industry suffered injury and to determine consumption and the various economic indicators related to the situation of the Community industry, it was examined whether and to what extent the subsequent use of the Community industry’s production of the like product had to be taken into account in the analysis. (169) Indeed, the like product is sold by the Community industry to both (i) unrelated customers and (ii) for further downstream processing to formulations in the same group of companies (related entities).
Community consumption (174) In calculating the apparent Community consumption of the product concerned and the like product, the Commission added: - the volume of total imports of the product concerned and the like product into the Community as reported by Eurostat, - the volume of sales of the like product in the Community produced by the Community industry, - the volume of captive use of the like product by the Community industry, - and, on the basis of the information contained in the review request, the estimated volume of sales of the like product in the Community by the other known Community producers.
As shown in the table below, Community consumption of the product concerned and the like product increased by 51 % over the period considered.
Consumption(in kg) | 1999 | 2000 | 2001 | 2002 | IP | Product concerned and like product | 2482053 | 3240481 | 3254464 | 3801666 | 3745549 | Index | 100 | 131 | 131 | 153 | 151 | (175) The GOI and one exporter submitted that the consumption details as set out above should have been disclosed in more detail, notably per Community producer and separating free and captive consumption.
Therefore, in view of Article 29 of the basic Regulation (confidentiality) it is not possible to disclose further details.
In the absence of any other information available concerning their contribution to the Community consumption, the data provided in the review request were used.
Imports of the product concerned into the Community 1.
Imports in the review investigation period were 159 % greater than in 1999.
With regard to the developing country status of India and the provisions of Article 14(4) of the basic Regulation, it was found that the volume of imports from India in the review investigation period represented significantly more than 4 % of the total imports of the like product in the Community.
Average import price per kg in EUR | 1999 | 2000 | 2001 | 2002 | IP | Product concerned | 34,66 | 33,94 | 35,51 | 36,57 | 35,34 | Index | 100 | 98 | 102 | 106 | 102 | (178) The average import price of the product concerned increased slightly with a peak in 2002 and subsequently fell back to the level before 2001.
EC market share | 1999 | 2000 | 2001 | 2002 | IP | Product concerned | 1,5 % | 1,5 % | 2,2 % | 2,7 % | 2,5 % | Index | 100 | 99 | 149 | 181 | 171 | (179) Indian imports’ market share on the Community market grew by 71 % over the period considered.
Consequently, these price undercutting margins indicate continuous price pressure exerted by the Indian imports on the Community market despite the existence of measures.
Economic situation of the Community industry 1.
Such a high rate of utilisation is common in this type of industry, because of the continuous batch process utilised for the manufacture of the like product and in the case of the Community industry in addition due to its captive use. (187) Three exporters submitted upon disclosure that the development of these factors does not show any sign of injury.
However, it is noted that the conclusion on injury has not been based on these factors. 2.
The Community industry’s free market sales volume showed a higher growth than the growth of Community consumption during the period considered.
However, between 2000 and the review investigation period, the increase of the Community industry’s free market sales volume was less than the increase of the Community consumption.
The large increase of the Community industry’s free market sales volume between 1999 and 2000 is mainly attributable to the taking over of another Community producer by the Community industry.
Nevertheless, the 80 % increase of the free market sales volume of the Community industry in the Community during the period considered was less pronounced than the 159 % increase of imports of the product concerned during the same period. (189) The GOI and four exporters pointed to the overall increase in sales of the Community industry as a positive sign and contended that it does not support an injury finding.
Prices remained practically stable at the lower level up to the end of the review investigation period although demand further grew. (192) The GOI and three exporters claimed that the price development should be considered as positive for the Community industry. (193) This claim cannot be accepted.
In fact, during the period considered the Community industry was at no time in the position to achieve non-injurious price levels. (194) The Community industry increased its market share by 30 % from 1999 to 2000 to the detriment of the market shares held by the other Community producers and exporters from third countries other than India.
However, the Community industry’s market share fell from 2000 to the review investigation period when it reached its lowest level since 1999.
This period coincided with a strong acceleration in growth of the share of imports from India. (195) One exporter argued that the decrease in market share of the Community industry in 2001 and the IP would be insignificant in light of the increase in 2000 and it further pointed to its overall increase in market share over the period considered. (196) However, this submission cannot be accepted, because it is based on an isolated focus 1999 versus the IP, which moreover neglects the exceptional nature of the increase in the year 2000.
In particular since 2001 an expansion on the Community industry’s captive market can be observed, whereas its situation on the free market remained practically unchanged.
It is noted that the overall movement in prices of free market and captive sales during the period considered are similar. 3.
This increase coincided in time with a doubling of the Indian imports over the same period. (203) The GOI and four exporters contended that the increase in stocks was not abnormally high, thus not showing injury.
Profitability (a) Free market sales Profitability(Free market sales in the Community) | 1999 | 2000 | 2001 | 2002 | IP | Index | – 100 | 113 | 239 | 146 | 87 | (205) The profitability of the Community industry expressed in terms of return on net sales on the free market improved significantly from a loss-making situation in 1999.
In addition, it is pertinent that the Community industry was at no time during the period considered in a position to reach even half of the profit margin, which, according to the findings in the original investigation, it could reasonably have obtained in the absence of subsidised imports, i.e. 15 %.
The development of the profitability and in particular its decline since 2002 is considered very important as it affects the level of financial resources available to the Community industry for investments in research and development that are necessary for further improvements to the production processes of existing products and the development of new products. (206) The GOI and four exporters submitted comments on the profitability analysis.
It was submitted that, (i) the Community industry achieved reasonable profitability levels, (ii) a non-injurious profitability margin of 10 % (see recital 260), would be too high and instead 5 % is sufficient, (iii) the profitability decline could be essentially attributed to the investment policy of the Community industry, (iv) the start up activities of one party qualify for self inflicted injury and (v) the profitability development should have been disclosed for each Community producer. (207) It is reiterated that the Community industry was at no time, during the period considered, in a position to achieve reasonable profit margins as set out above.
Thus, the deterioration since 2002 only worsened an already unsatisfactory situation.
Further, in view of the special circumstances of the pharmaceutical sector a profit margin of 5 % is considered not to be sufficient.
The Community industry has provided evidence that it can achieve for comparable bulk drugs profit figures of above 10 %.
Finally, in view of Article 29 of the basic Regulation ("confidentiality") it is not possible to disclose further details. (b) Captive sales Profitability(Captive sales in the Community) | 1999 | 2000 | 2001 | 2002 | IP | Index | 100 | 482 | 564 | 431 | 325 | (208) The profitability trends of captive sales follow the same line, although on a higher level, i.e.
In the absence of the higher profit levels achieved on captive sales, the industry would be in a worse overall financial situation. 5.
In particular in 2002, it strongly invested in new production techniques in order to remain competitive, improve environmental and security standards and increase production capacities. (210) From 1999 to 2001, i.e.
Price pressure exercised by competitors contributed to the unsatisfactory cash flow development as well. (212) The Community industry did not experience any significant difficulty to raise capital. (213) Upon disclosure it was submitted by the GOI and exporters that, (i) the data above should have been disclosed separately for each Community producer separately, (ii) the ability to raise capital did not support an injury finding, (iii) the cash flow allegedly cannot follow this trends in view of the trends for return on investments and profitability and should therefore be re-evaluated and, (iv) without further substantiation the analysis would be insufficient. (214) In reply to these submissions it should be recalled that in accordance with Article 29 of the basic Regulation (confidentiality) the data cannot be disclosed separately for each Community producer.
Employment, productivity and wages | 1999 | 2000 | 2001 | 2002 | IP | Index employment | 100 | 101 | 101 | 187 | 185 | Index productivity | 100 | 120 | 127 | 83 | 86 | Index wages | 100 | 103 | 106 | 185 | 178 | (215) Employment for the like product remained stable until 2001 but increased considerably in 2002 due to the setting up of a new production plant in the Community by one of the cooperating Community producers.
Conclusion on the economic situation of the Community industry (222) Between 1999 and the review investigation period the volume of the subsidised imports of the product concerned increased significantly by 159 % and their share of the Community market grew by 70 %.
This development contrasts with the much less favourable development for exporters from other countries and the Community industry.
Imports from other countries to the Community market grew only by 7 % during the period considered and their market share even decreased by 29 %.
Since 2001, the trend in market share development for the Community industry is even digressive.
On a weighted average basis, price undercutting was in the review investigation period between 11,5 and 17,1 %. (224) As a consequence of this price pressure exercised by subsidised Indian imports, the Community industry was at no time during the period considered in a position to reach non-injurious price levels.
However, only an acceptable level of profitability will allow the Community industry to remain viable in a sustainable way. (225) This negative tendency for the Community industry is further reflected in the picture displayed by the trends in return on investment and cash flow. (226) Regarding captive sales, the option for the Community industry to sell part of its production on the captive market provided it with the opportunity to maintain high levels of capacity utilisation.
Thus, it cannot change the conclusion that the captive sales did not contribute to the injury. (229) As a result, it was confirmed that, overall, the Community industry has suffered material injury within the meaning of Article 8(1) of the basic Regulation.
Moreover, not all economic indicators have the same weight.
The Community industry was never in a position to achieve non injurious price levels during the period considered on the free market due to external price pressure, mainly from heavily subsidised Indian imports.
Moreover, as stated under recital 207, at no point in time was the Community industry in a position to reach non-injurious price levels.
To the contrary, again starting in 2002, the Community industry had to adjust prices downwards in order to defend its market share. (232) Upon disclosure, three exporters submitted that the Indian imports share on the Community market, 2,5 % during the IP, and their volume in relation to total imports, 8,4 % during the IP, both of which slightly decreased as compared with 2002, would be too small and marginal to have any injurious impact in particular in view of a bigger market share hold by the Community industry.
Furthermore, it was argued that an analysis expressed in relative terms would be misleading, because India started from a very low level, 1,5 % market share and 3,7 % import volume in 1999. (233) In reply to this submission it should be considered that both, India’s market share and its import volume during the IP, are well above the de minimis thresholds set in Articles 10(11) and 14(4) of the basic Regulation, thus can have a causal effect.
As already established in the course of the original investigation, the product under investigation, a bulk commodity, is highly price sensitive and reacts swiftly to any downward pressure.
In fact, over the period considered the Indian prices set on average the price pressure benchmark in this case. (234) It was therefore confirmed that the subsidised imports from India had a considerable negative impact on the situation of the Community industry during the period considered, in particular in terms of profitability.
Amongst these countries, Oman, the United States of America (USA), China, South Korea and Singapore are the main suppliers to the Community market.
However, their average import prices were considerably higher than the Indian import prices and, except for the import prices from Oman, also the Community industry prices.
Import prices of Oman are at comparable levels to the Community industry’s prices, but Oman’s increase in market share over the period considered was much less pronounced than that for the other third countries. (236) Following disclosure, it was submitted by the GOI and two exporters that the countervailing duty in place for Indian imports should have been taken into consideration when comparing average sales prices.
This would allegedly lead to practically similar Indian and Omani price levels.
In addition, it was noted that average prices from some third countries, notably the USA and China, decreased significantly over the period considered whereas, inter alia, Indian prices increased.
Furthermore, it was submitted by another exporter that the volume decrease in Indian imports between 2002 and the review investigation period has not been properly taken into account in the analysis, that other third countries were the main suppliers and that average prices from South Korea and India were similar from 1999 to 2001. (237) With regard to the original countervailing duty in place, it should be noted that the vast majority of imports from India were either subject to a zero duty rate or to a duty rate which still leads to lower average landing prices than the average Omani price levels.
In addition, import prices from all other third countries as well were on average higher over the period considered than Indian price levels, again clearly identifying India as main source of price pressure.
Therefore, the small decrease in Indian imports between 2002 and the IP had no effect on the market, which eventually rewarded the Indian pricing policy.
The Community industry’s export prices were on average 10 to 15 % higher than the sales prices in the Community.
Thus, the Community industry’s export activity could not contribute to its injurious situation. (240) In this context it was submitted by the GOI and one exporter that the Community industry in their questionnaire replies mentioned stiff competition due to Indian competitors on third country markets resulting for the Community industry in low prices and loss of market share in third countries, which prima facie would contradict above finding.
Thus, on the basis of this assessment of the Community industry there would be no injury on the Community market or no causal link with Indian imports. (241) In this respect, it is noted that given the worldwide growth of the market for such products, there is no contradiction between any decrease of export prices and loss of market share of the Community industry in third countries and the fact that the volume of such exports had actually increased and that their prices were higher than the Community industry’s prices for sales in the Community.
Therefore, although the export performance of the Community industry could have been better without a low priced subsidised Indian exports competition in third countries markets, there is no indication that, because of its export performance, the Community industry was not subject to injurious price competition on the Community market essentially caused by the low priced subsidised imports from India.
To the contrary, without a captive market the injurious situation of the Community industry might even have been worse.
LIKELIHOOD OF CONTINUATION OR RECURRENCE OF INJURY (244) In accordance with Article 18(2) of the basic Regulation, it was examined whether the expiry of the measures in force would be likely to lead to a continuation or recurrence of injury. (245) As set out under recitals 161 to 243 above, it was established that during the review investigation period and despite the measures in force, the Community industry continued to sustain injury caused by the subsidised imports of the product concerned.
The injury elimination level found during the present investigation ranged between 17,3 and 48,1 % and is higher than that established during the original investigation (between 12,6 and 28,9 %), despite the fact that in this review the reasonable profit margin for the Community industry was reduced by one third as compared with the original investigation (see recital 260 below).
Furthermore, the investigation established that, despite domestic sales and exports to other countries, there is still significant spare capacity for the products under investigation in India, in particular with exporters which are subject to relatively high duty rates in the Community.
It was, therefore, considered reasonable to conclude that subsidised low priced imports from India would further increase and, consequently, injury would be likely to continue in the future, should the measures lapse. (246) Since the Community industry continues to suffer material injury due to the subsidised imports despite the existence of measures, it was not necessary to analyse further the likelihood of recurrence of injury.
COMMUNITY INTEREST I.
This process of continuing investments by the Community industry is being undermined in particular by the unsatisfactory development of its profitability, caused by the continuous price pressure exerted by the Indian imports of the product concerned on the Community market.
Consequently, it was considered, that a lapse of the measures would not be in the interest of the Community industry.
Finally, the importer did not indicate that the continuation of measures would have any impact on employment, since import activities are not labour intensive. (250) Although importers/traders may not be in favour of measures, it can be concluded on the basis of the information available, that such possible interest in allowing measures to expire does not outweigh the actual interest of the Community industry to continue redressing unfair and injurious Indian trading practices as summarised in recital 248.
Interest of up-stream suppliers (251) In order to assess the likely effect that the continuation of countervailing measures could have on the up-stream suppliers of the Community industry, questionnaires were sent to all such known suppliers.
These up-stream suppliers, which provide in particular glucose and dextrose to the Community industry, are in favour of the continuation of measures.
The price difference was expressed as a percentage of the CIF import value. (260) The non-injurious price has been obtained by taking the weighted average cost of production of the Community industry together with a profit margin of 10 %.
In view of increased competition, it was considered an appropriate and reasonable minimum instead of the 15 % profit margin established in the original investigation.
The rates of duty applicable to imports from these exporters should range from 17,3 to 30,3 %.
The rates of duty applicable to imports from these exporters should range from 25,3 to 32 %.
Given the fact that the level of cooperation of Indian exporters was high (over 80 %), the level of duty for all other companies should be set at the level of the company with the highest individual duty rate, i.e. 32 %. (263) The individual company countervailing duty rates specified in this Regulation reflect the situation found during the review with respect to the cooperating exporters.
Thus, they are solely applicable to imports of the product concerned produced by these companies.
A definitive countervailing duty is hereby imposed on imports of amoxicillin trihydrate, ampicillin trihydrate and cefalexin not put up in measured doses or in forms or packings for retail sale falling within CN codes ex29411010 (TARIC code 2941101010), ex29411020 (TARIC code 2941102010) and ex29419000 (TARIC code 2941900030) originating in India. 2.
The rate of duty applicable to the net free-at-Community-frontier price, before duty for imports produced in India by the companies listed below, shall be as follows: - 17,3 % for KDL Biotech Ltd, Mumbai (TARIC additional code: A580), - 28,1 % for Nectar Lifesciences Ltd, Chandigarh (TARIC additional code: A581), - 25,3 % for Nestor Pharmaceuticals Ltd, New Delhi (TARIC additional code: A582), - 30,3 % for Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd, New Delhi (TARIC additional code: 8221), - 28,1 % for Torrent Gujarat Biotech Ltd, Ahmedabad (TARIC additional code: A583), - 28,1 % for Surya Pharmaceuticals Ltd, Chandigarh (TARIC additional code: A584), - 32 % for all other companies (TARIC additional code: 8900). 3.
Article 2 This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Done at Brussels, 10 May 2005.
Krecké [1] OJ L 288, 21.10.97, p. 1.
Regulation as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 461/2004 (OJ L 77, 13.3.2004, p. 12). [2] OJ L 273, 9.10.1998, p. 1. [3] OJ C 8, 14.1.2003, p. 2. [4] OJ C 241, 8.10.2003, p. 7. [5] OJ L 166, 11.6.1998, p. 17, recital 9. [6] Notification No 1/2002-07 of 31.3.2002 of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry of the GOI. [7] Council Regulation (EC) No 1628/2004 (OJ L 295, 18.9.2004, p. 4 (recital 13)). [8] The Indian Finance Act 1999 prolonged the application from 2000 to 2005. [9] Article 143(1)(e)(h) of Commission Regulation (EEC) No 2454/93 of 2 July 1993 laying down provisions for the implementation of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2913/92 establishing the Community Customs Code (OJ L 253, 11.10.1993, p. 1).
Regulation as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 2286/2003 (OJ L 343, 31.12.2003, p. 1). [10] European Commission, Directorate-General for Trade, Directorate B J-79 5/17, Rue de la Loi/Wetstraat 200, B-1049 Brussels. --------------------------------------------------
