Member States shall take the necessary measures to ensure that the contracting authorities comply or ensure compliance with this Directive where they subsidize directly by more than 50 % a works contract awarded by an entity other than themselves. 2.
Should contracting authorities conclude a public works concession contract, the advertising rules as described in Article 11 (3), (6), (7) and (9) to (13), and in Article 15, shall apply to that contract when its value is not less than ECU 5 000 000. 2.
The contracting authority may: - either require the concessionnaire to award contracts representing a minimum of 30 % of the total value of the work for which the concession contract is to be awarded, to third parties, at the same time providing the option for candidates to increase this percentage.
Article 4 This Directive shall not apply to: (a) contracts awarded in the fields referred to in Articles 2, 7, 8 and 9 of Directive 90/531/EEC or fulfilling the conditions in Article 6 (2) of that Directive; (b) works contracts which are declared secret or the execution of which must be accompanied by special security measures in accordance with the laws, regulations or administrative provisions in force in the Member State concerned or when the protection of the basic interests of the Member State's security so requires.
Article 5 This Directive shall not apply to public contracts governed by different procedural rules and awarded: (a) in pursuance of an international agreement, concluded in conformity with the Treaty, between a Member State and one or more non-member countries and covering works intended for the joint implementation or exploitation of a project by the signatory States; all agreements shall be communicated to the Commission, which may consult the Advisory Committee for Public Contracts set up by Decision 71/306/EEC(5) ; (b) to undertakings in a Member State or a non-member country in pursuance of an international agreement relating to the stationing of troops; (c) pursuant to the particular procedure of an international organization.
The contracting authorities shall not, in these cases, publish a contract notice where they include in such negotiated procedure all the enterprises satisfying the criteria of Articles 24 to 29 which, during the prior open or restricted procedure, have submitted tenders in accordance with the formal requirements of the tendering procedure; (b) when the works involved are carried out purely for the purpose of research, experiment or development, and not to establish commercial viability or to recover research and development costs; (c) in exceptional cases, when the nature of the works or the risks attaching thereto do not permit prior overall pricing. 3.
For each contract awarded, the contracting authorities shall draw up a written report which shall include at least the following: - the name and address of the contracting authority, the subject and value of the contract, - the names of the candidates or tenderers admitted and the reasons for their selection, - the names of the candidates or tenderers rejected and the reasons for their rejection, - the name of the successful tenderer and the reasons for his tender having been selected and, if known, any share of the contract the successful tenderer may intend to subcontract to a third party, - for negotiated procedures, the circumstances referred to in Article 7 which justify the use of these procedures.
Article 9 In the case of contracts relating to the design and construction of a public housing scheme whose size and complexity, and the estimated duration of the work involved, require that planning be based from the outset on close collaboration within a team comprising representatives of the contracting authorities, experts and the contractor to be responsible for carrying out the works, a special award procedure may be adopted for selecting the contractor most suitable for integration into the team.
Furthermore, contracting authorities shall, in accordance with Articles 24 to 29, set out in such a contract notice the personal, technical and financial conditions to be fulfilled by candidates.
TITLE II COMMON RULES IN THE TECHNICAL FIELD Article 10 1.
Contracting authorities invoking paragraph 3 shall record, wherever possible, the reasons for doing so in the tender notice published in the Official Journal of the European Communities or in the contract documents and in all cases shall record these reasons in their internal documentation and shall supply such information on request to Member States and to the Commission. 5.
TITLE III COMMON ADVERTISING RULES Article 11 1.
Contracting authorities who wish to award a public works contract by open, restricted or negotiated procedure referred to in Article 7 (2), shall make known their intention by means of a notice. 3.
Contracting authorities who wish to award a works concession contract shall make known their intention by means of a notice. 4.
The notices referred to in paragraphs 1 to 5 shall be drawn up in accordance with the models given in Annexes IV, V and VI, and shall specify the information requested in those Annexes.
The contracting authorities may not require any conditions but those specified in Articles 26 and 27 when requesting information concerning the economic and technical standards which they require of contracts for their selection (point 11 of Annex IV B, point 10 of Annex IV C and point 9 of Annex IV D). 7.
The contracting authorities shall send the notices referred to in paragraphs 1 to 5 as rapidly as possible and by the most appropriate channels to the Office for Official Publications of the European Communities.
In the case of the accelerated procedure referred to in Article 14, the notice shall be sent by telex, telegram or telefax.
The notice referred to in paragraph 1 shall be sent as soon as possible after the decision approving the planning of the works contracts that the contracting authorities intend to award.
The notice referred to in paragraph 5 shall be sent at the latest 48 days after the award of the contract in question. 8.
The notices referred to in paragraphs 1 and 5 shall be published in full in the Official Journal of the European Communities and in the TED data bank in the official languages of the Communities, the original text alone being authentic. 9.
The notices referred to in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 shall be published in full in the Official Journal of the European Communities and in the TED data bank in the original languages.
The length of the notice shall not be greater than one page of the Journal, or approximately 650 words.
The time limit for the receipt of tenders laid down in paragraph 1 may be reduced to 36 days where the contracting authorities have published the notice for in Article 11 (1), drafted in accordance with the specimen in Annex IV A, in the Official Journal of the European Communities. 3.
Provided they have been requested in good time, the contract documents and supporting documents must be sent to the contractors by the contracting authorities or competent departments within six days of receiving their application. 4.
In restricted procedures and negotiated procedures as described in Article 7 (2), the time limit for receipt of requests to participate fixed by the contracting authorities shall be not less than 37 days from the date dispatch of the notice. 2.
The time limit for the receipt of tenders laid down in paragraph 3 may be reduced to 26 days where the contracting authorities have published the notice provided for in Article 11 (1), drafted in accordance with the model in Annex IV A, in the Official Journal of the European Communities. 5.
If by one of the last four, they must be confirmed by letter dispatched before the end of the period laid down in paragraph 1. 6.
Provided it has been requested in good time, additional information relating to the contract documents must be suplied by the contracting authorities not later than six days before the final date fixed for the receipt of tenders. 7.
Where tenders can be made only after a visit to the site or after on-the-spot inspection of the documents supporting the contract documents, the time limit laid down in paragraphs 3 and 4 shall be extended accordingly.
Article 15 Contracting authorities who wish to award a works concession contract shall fix a time limit for receipt of candidatures for the concession, which shall not be less than 52 days from the date of dispatch of the notice.
Article 17 Contracting authorities may arrange for the publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities of notices announcing public works contracts which are not subject to the publication requirement laid down in this Directive.
Article 19 Where the criterion for the award of the contract is that of the most economically advantageous tender, contracting authorities may take account of variants which are submitted by a tenderer and meet the minimum specifications required by the contracting authorities.
Article 20 In the contract documents, the contracting authority may ask the tenderer to indicate in his tender any share of the contract he may intend to subcontract to third parties.
Article 21 Tenders may be submitted by groups of contractors.
The contracting authority which supplies the information referred to in paragraph 1 shall request the tenderers or those participating in the contract procedure to indicate that they have taken account, when draving up their tender, of the obligations relating to employment protection provisions and the working conditions which are in force in the place where the work is to be carried out.
Where the contracting authority requires of the contractor proof that none of the cases quoted in (a), (b), (c), (e) or (f) applies to him, it shall accept as sufficient evidence: - for points (a), (b) or (c), the production of an extract from the 'judicial record' or, failing this, of an equivalent document issued by a competent judicial or administrative authority in the country of origin in the country whence that person comes showing that these requirements have been met; - for points (e) or (f), a certificate issued by the competent authority in the Member State concerned.
Article 25 Any contractor wishing to take part in a public works contract may be requested to prove his enrolment in the professional or trade register under the conditions laid down by the laws of the Member State in which he is established: - in Belgium the 'Registre du Commerce - Handelsregister', - in Denmark, the 'Handelsregistret, Aktieselskabesregistret' and the 'Erhvervsregistret', - in Germany, the 'Handelsregister' and the 'Handwerksrolle', - in Greece, the registrar of contractors' enterprises '(Mitroo Ergoliptikon Epicheiriseon)' of the Ministry for Environment, Town and Country Planning and Public Works, - in Spain, the 'Registro Oficial de Contratistas del Ministerio de Industria, Comercio y Turismo', - in France, the 'Registre du Commerce and the Répertoire des métiers', - in Italy, the 'Registro della Camera di commercio, industria, agricoltura e artigianato', - in Luxembourg, the 'Registre aux firmes and the Rôle de la Chambre des métiers', - in the Netherlands, the 'Handelsregister', - in Portugal, the 'Commissao de Alvarás de Empresas de Obras Públicas e Particulares (CAEOPP)', - in the United Kingdom and Ireland, the contractor may be requested to provide a certificate from the Registrar of Companies or the Registrar of Friendly Societies or, if this is not the case, a certificate stating that the person concerned has declared on oath that he is engaged in the profession in question in the country in which he is established, in a specific place and under a given business name.
The contracting authorities shall specify in the notice or in the invitation to tender which reference or references they have chosen and what references other than those mentioned under paragraph 1 (a), (b) or (c) are to be produced. 3.
Article 28 Within the limits of Articles 24 to 27, the contracting authority may invite the contractor to supplement the certificates and documents submitted or to clarify them.
The contracting authorities of other Member States shall apply the above provisions only in favour of contractors who are established in the country holding the official list. 4.
For the registration of contractors of other Member States in an official list, no further proofs and statements may be required other than those requested of nationals and, in any event, only those provided for under Articles 24 to 27. 5.
Chapter 3 Criteria for the award of contracts Article 30 1.
Until 31 December 1992, this Directive shall not prevent the application of existing national provisions on the award of public works contracts which have as their objective the reduction of regional disparities and the promotion of job creation in regions whose development is lagging behind and in declining industrial regions, on condition that the provisions concerned are compatible with the Treaty, in particular with the principles of non-discrimination on grounds of nationality, freedom of establishment and freedom to provide services, and with the Community's international obligations. 2.
In order to permit assessment of the results of applying the Directive, Member States shall forward to the Commission a statistical report on the contracts award by contracting authorities by 31 October 1993 at the latest for the preceding year and thereafter by 31 October of every second year.
Nevertheless, for Greece, Spain and Portugal, the date of 31 October 1993 shall be replaced by 31 October 1995. 2.
The conditions for the drawing up, transmission, receipt, translation, collection and distribution of the notices referred to in Article 11 and of the statistical reports provided for in Article 34, the nomenclature provided for in Annex II, as well as the reference in the notices to particular positions of the nomenclature, may be modified in accordance with the procedure laid down in paragraph 3. 3.
Amended versions of Annexes I and II and of the conditions set out in paragraph 2 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Article 37 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Luxembourg, 14 June 1993.
TROEJBORG - Directive 93/4/EEC (OJ No L 38, 16. 2. 1993, p. 31). (1) OJ No C 46, 20. 2. 1992, p. 79. (2) OJ No C 125, 18. 5. 1992, p. 171 and OJ No C 305, 23. 11. 1992, p. 73. (3) OJ No C 106, 27. 4. 1992, p. 11. (4) OJ No L 185, 16. 8. 1971, p. 15; Directive as last amended by Directive 90/531//EEC (OJ No L 297, 29. 10. 1990, p. 1). (5) OJ No L 185, 16. 8. 1971, p. 15; Decision as amended by Decision 77/63/EEC (OJ No L 13, 15. 1. 1977, p.15. (6) OJ No L 40, 11. 2. 1989, p. 12. (7) OJ No L 124, 8. 6. 1971, p. 1. (8) including the provisions which amended this Directive, namely: - Directive 78/669/EEC (OJ No L 225, 16. 8. 1978, p. 41), - Directive 89/440/EEC (OJ No L 210, 21. 7. 1989, p. 1), - Commission Decision 90/380/EEC (OJ No L 187, 19. 7. 1990, p. 55, - Article 35 (2) of Directive 90/531/EEC (OJ No L 297, 29. 10. 1990, p. 1), and ANNEX I LISTS OF BODIES AND CATEGORIES OF BODIES GOVERNED BY PUBLIC LAW REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE 1 (b) I.
Categories - De kommunale havne (municipal ports), - Andre Forvaltningssubjekter (other public administrative bodies).
Legal persons governed by private law Non-industrial and non-commercial establishments subject to State control and operating in the general interest (including 'kommunale Versorgungsunternehmen' - municipal utilities), particularly in the following fields: - Gesundheitswesen (Krankenhaeuser, Kurmittelbetriebe, medizinische Forschungseinrichtungen, Untersuchungs- und Tierkoerperbeseitigungsanstalten) (health: hospitals, health resort establishments, medical research institutes, testing and carcase-disposal establishments), - Kultur (oeffentliche Buehnen, Orchester, Museen, Bibliotheken, Archive, zoologische und botanische Gaerten) (culture: public theatres, orchestras, museums, libraries, archives, zoological and botanical gardens), - Soziales (Kindergaerten, Kindertagesheime, Erholungseinrichtungen, Kinder- und Jugendheime, Freizeiteinrichtungen, Gemeinschafts- und Buergerhaeuser, Frauenhaeuser, Altersheime, Obdachlosenunterkuenfte) (social welfare: nursery schools, children's playschools, rest-homes, children's homes, hostels for young people, leisure centres, community and civic centres, homes for battered wives, old people's homes, accommodation for the homeless), - Sport (Schwimmbaeder, Sportanlagen und -einrichtungen) (sport: swimming baths, sports facilities), - Sicherheit (Feuerwehren, Rettungsdienste) (safety: fire brigades, other emergency services), - Bildung (Umschulungs-, Aus-, Fort- und Weiterbildungseinrichtungen, Volkshochschulen) (education: training, further training and retraining establishments, adult evening classes), - Wissenschaft, Forschung und Entwicklung (Grossforschungseinrichtungen, wissenschaftliche Gesellschaften und Vereine, Wissenschaftsfoerderung) (science, research and development: large-scale research institutes, scientific societies and associations, bodies promoting science), - Entsorgung (Strassenreinigung, Abfall- und Abwasserbeseitigung) (refuse and garbage disposal services: street cleaning, waste and sewage disposal), - Bauwesen und Wohnungswirtschaft (Stadtplanung, Stadtentwicklung, Wohnungsunternehmen, Wohnraumvermittlung) (building, civil engineering and housing: town planning, urban development, housing enterprises, housing agency services), - Wirtschaft (Wirtschaftsfoerderungsgesellschaften) (economy: organizations promoting economic development), - Friedhofs- und Bestattungswesen (cemeteries and burial services), - Zusammenarbeit mit den Entwicklungslaendern (Finanzierung, technische Zusammenarbeit, Entwicklungshilfe, Ausbildung) (cooperation with developing countries: financing, technical cooperation, development aid, training).
Administrative public bodies at regional, departmental and local level: - collèges (secondary schools), - lycées (secondary schools), - établissements publics hospitaliers (public hospitals), - offices publics d'habitations à loyer modéré (OPHLM) (public offices for low-cost housing). 3.
Groupings of territorial authorities: - syndicats de communes (associations of local authorities), - districts (districts), - communautés urbaines (municipalities), - institutions interdépartementales et interrégionales (institutions common to more than one Département and interregional institutions).
IRELAND Bodies - Shannon Free Airport Development Company Ltd, - Local Government Computer Services Board, - Local Government Staff Negotiations Board, - Córas Tráchtála (Irish Export Board), - Industrial Development Authority, - Irish Goods Council (Promotion of Irish Goods), - Córas Beostoic agus Feola (CBF) (Irish Meat Board), - Bord Fáilte Éireann (Irish Tourism Board), - Údarás na Gaeltachta (Development Authority for Gaeltacht Regions), - An Bord Pleanála (Irish Planning Board).
Categories - Third level Educational Bodies of a Public Character, - National Training, Cultural or Research Agencies, - Hospital Boards of a Public Character, - National Health %amp% Social Agencies of a Public Character, - Central %amp% Regional Fishery Boards.
ITALY Bodies - Agenzia per la promozione dello sviluppo nel Mezzogiorno.
Categories - Enti portuali e aeroportuali (port and airport authorities), - Consorzi per le opere idrauliche (consortia for water engineering works), - Le università statali, gli istituti universitari statali, i consorzi per i lavori interessanti le università (State universities, State university institutes, consortia for university development work), - Gli istituti superiori scientifici e culturali, gli osservatori astronomici, astrofisici, geofisici o vulcanologici (higher scientific and cultural institutes, astronomical, astrophysical, geophysical or vulcanological oberservatories), - Enti di ricerca e sperimentazione (organizations conducting research and experimental work), - Le istituzioni pubbliche di assistenza e di beneficenza (public welfare and benevolent institutions), - Enti che gestiscono forme obbligatorie di previdenza e di assistenza (agencies administering compulsory social security and welfare schemes), - Consorzi di bonifica (land reclamation consortia), - Enti di sviluppo o di irrigazione (development or irrigation agencies), - Consorzi per le aree industriali (associations for industrial areas), - Comunità montane (groupings of municipalities in mountain areas), - Enti preposti a servizi di pubblico interesse (organizations providing services in the public interest), - Enti pubblici preposti ad attività di spettacolo, sportive, turistiche e del tempo libero (public bodies engaged in entertainment, sport, tourism and leisure activities), - Enti culturali e di promozione artistica (organizations promoting culture and artistic activities) IX.
THE NETHERLANDS Bodies - De Nederlandse Centrale Organisatie voor Toegepast Natuurwetenschappelijk Onderzoek (TNO) en de daaronder ressorterende organisaties.
Categories - De waterschappen (administration of water engineering works), - De instellingen van wetenschappelijk onderwijs vermeld in artikel 8 van de Wet op het Wetenschappelijk Onderwijs (1985), de academische ziekenhuizen (Institutions for scientific education, as listed in Article 8 of the Scientific Education Act (1985)) wet op het Wetenschappelijk Onderwijs (1985) (teaching hospitals).
PORTUGAL Categories - Estabelecimentos públicos de ensino investigaçaço científica e saúde (public establishments for education, scientific research and health), - Institutos públicos sem carácter comercial ou industrial (public institutions without commercial or industrial character), - Fundações públicas (public foundations), - Administrações gerais e juntas autonómas (general administration bodies and independent councils).
THE UNITED KINGDOM Bodies - Central Blood Laboratories Authority, - Design Council, - Health and Safety Executive, - National Research Development Corporation, - Public Health Laboratory Services Board, - Advisory, Conciliation and Arbitration Service, - Commission for the New Towns, - Development Board For Rural Wales, - English Industrial Estates Corporation, - National Rivers Authority, - Northern Ireland Housing Executive, - Scottish Enterprise, - Scottish Homes, - Welsh Development Agency.
ANNEX IV MODEL CONTRACT NOTICES A.
Prior information 1.
Other information. 6.
Open procedures 1.
Where applicable, prohibition on variants. 15.
Other information. 16.
Date of publication of the prior information notice in the Official Journal of the European Communities or references to its non-publication. 17.
Restricted procedures 1.
Where applicable, prohibition on variants. 13.
Other information. 14.
Date of publication of the prior information notice in the Official Journal of the European Communities or reference to its non-publication. 15.
Negotiated procedures 1.
Where applicable, prohibition on variants. 11.
Date(s) of previous publications in the Official Journal of the European Communities. 13.
Other information. 14.
Date of publication of the prior information notice in the Official Journal of the European Communities. 15.
Contract awards 1.
Other information. 11.
Date of publication of the tender notice in the Official Journal of the European Communities. 12.
Criteria for award of contract. 6.
Other information. 8.
Criteria for the award of the contract. 8.
Other information. 9.
