2002/731/EC: Commission Decision of 30 May 2002 concerning the technical specification for interoperability relating to the control-command and signalling subsystem of the trans-European high-speed rail system referred to in Article 6(1) of Council Directive 96/48/EC (Text with EEA relevance) (notified under document number C(2002) 1947) Commission Decision of 30 May 2002 concerning the technical specification for interoperability relating to the control-command and signalling subsystem of the trans-European high-speed rail system referred to in Article 6(1) of Council Directive 96/48/EC (notified under document number C(2002) 1947) (Text with EEA relevance) (2002/731/EC) THE COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, Having regard to Council Directive 96/48/EC of 23 July 1996 on the interoperability of the trans-European high-speed rail network(1), and in particular Article 6(1) thereof, Whereas: (1) In accordance with Article 2(c) of Directive 96/48/EC, the trans-European high-speed rail system is subdivided into structural or functional subsystems.
These subsystems are described in Annex II to the Directive. (2) In accordance with Article 5(1) of the Directive, each of the subsystems shall be covered by a technical specification for interoperability (TSI). (3) In accordance with Article 6(1) of the Directive, draft TSIs shall be drawn up by the joint representative body. (4) The Committee set up pursuant to Article 21 of Directive 96/48/EC has appointed the European Association for Railway Interoperability (AEIF) as the joint representative body in accordance with Article 2(h) of the Directive. (5) The AEIF has been given a mandate to draw up a draft TSI for the control-command and signalling subsystem in accordance with Article 6(1) of the Directive.
This mandate was established in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 21(2) of the Directive. (6) The AEIF has drawn up the draft TSI, together with an introductory report containing a cost-benefit analysis as provided for in Article 6(3) of the Directive. (7) The draft TSI has been examined by the representatives of the Member States, in the framework of the Committee set up by the Directive, in the light of the introductory report. (8) As specified in Article 1 of Directive 96/48/EC, the conditions for achieving interoperability of the trans-European high-speed rail system concern the design, construction, upgrading and operation of the infrastructures and rolling stock contributing to the functioning of the system to be put into service after the date of entry into force of the Directive.
As to the bodies in charge of those procedures, Member States will make use, as far as possible, of bodies notified under Article 20 of Directive 96/48/EC.
Furthermore, in the cases provided for in Article 7 of the Directive Member States must be allowed not to apply certain technical specifications.
With regard to the systems referred to in Annex B to the attached TSI, the conditions to be complied with for the verification of the interoperability within the meaning of Article 16(2) of Directive 96/48/EC are the applicable technical rules in use in the Member State which authorises the placing in service of the subsystem concerned by this Decision. 2.
The Member State will examine the dossier and, taking into account the implementation strategy in Chapter 7 of the attached TSI, will (where appropriate) decide whether the scale of the work requires the need for a new authorisation for placing in service under Article 14 of Directive 96/48/EC.
For the Commission Loyola De Palacio Vice-President (1) OJ L 235, 17.9.1996, p. 6. (2) OJ L 110, 20.4.2001, p. 1. (3) OJ L 216, 14.8.1999, p. 23. (4) OJ L 93, 3.4.2001, p. 53.
The specifications concerning the %quot%users%quot% and %quot%environment%quot% subsystems, which are necessary to ensure interoperability of the trans-European high-speed rail system in compliance with the essential requirements, are set out in the TSIs concerned.
Reference shall be made in particular to the lines of the trans-European rail network described in Decision No 1692/96/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 1996 on Community guidelines for the development of the trans-European transport network or in any update to the same Decision as a result of the revision provided for in Article 21 of that Decision. 1.3.
CONTENT OF THIS TSI In accordance with Article 5(3) of and with Annex I(1)(b) to Directive 96/48/EC, this TSI: (a) specifies the essential requirements for the subsystems and their interfaces (Chapter 3); (b) establishes the basic parameters described in Annex II(3) to that Directive, which are necessary to meet the essential requirements (Chapter 4); (c) establishes the conditions to be complied with to achieve the specified performances for each of the following categories of line (Chapter 4): - category I: specially built high-speed lines equipped for speeds generally equal to or greater than 250 km/h, - category II: specially upgraded high-speed lines equipped for speeds of the order of 200 km/h, - category III: specially upgraded high-speed lines which have special features as a result of topographical, relief or town-planning constraints, on which the speed must be adapted to each case; (d) establishes implementing provisions in certain specific cases (Chapter 7); (e) determines the interoperability constituents and interfaces which must be covered by European specifications, including European standards, which are needed in order to achieve interoperability within the trans-European high-speed rail system while meeting the essential requirements (Chapter 5); (f) states, in each case under consideration, which of the modules defined in Decision 93/465/EEC or, where appropriate, which specific procedures are to be used in order to assess either the conformity or the suitability for use of the interoperability constituents, as well as %quot%EC%quot% verification of the subsystems (Chapter 6). 2.
The requirements on the necessary functions, interfaces and performance are introduced in the characterisation of control-command, which is described in section 4 where the supporting standards are referenced. 2.2.
OVERVIEW The interoperability of the trans-European high-speed rail network depends in part on the ability of the on-board control-command equipment to work with the various trackside equipment installed upon it(1). 2.2.1.
Technical interoperability is the prerequisite for operational interoperability, in which the driving is based on consistent information displayed in the cabs and is in accordance with signalling principles defined for the high-speed network that are independent of the technology used. 2.2.2.
In order to achieve interoperability, the trains' on-board control-command assembly will consist of: - the class A radio and data communication interfaces to the infrastructure, in case of operation with class A Infrastructure, - the class B radio and data communication interfaces to the infrastructure, in case of operation with class B infrastructure.
Section 7 describes the requirements for the transition phase from the class B interfaces to the class A interfaces for radio and for signalling purposes. 2.2.3.
The implementation issue is addressed in Chapter 7.
A train equipped with class A interfaces for a given level of application shall be able to operate with that level of application and any lower one. 2.2.4.
GENERAL Article 4(1) of Interoperability Directive 96/48/EC, requires that the trans-European high-speed rail system, subsystems and their interoperability constituents meet the essential requirements set out in general terms in Annex III to the Directive.
The essential requirements are: - safety, - reliability and availability, - health, - environmental protection, - technical compatibility.
The Directive allows that the essential requirements may be generally applicable to the whole trans-European high-speed rail system or be specific to each subsystem and its interoperability constituents. 3.2.
The class B interfaces have specific features. 3.2.1.
For this purpose, Annex A, index 1, shall be used.
Annex A, index 2c shall be applied. 3.2.3.
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 3.2.4.1.
For this purpose Annex A, index 3, shall be used. (b) The systems complying with the class B interface requirements shall conform at least to the physical environmental specifications applying to the corresponding class B system, in order to be capable of operating under the climatic and physical conditions which exist along the high-speed lines concerned. 3.2.5.1.2.
Class A and class B systems shall not interfere with each other. (b) Compatibility between the control-command subsystem and other TSI subsystems.
The following standards shall be applied: - Annex A, index 4a (emission and susceptibility limits of control-command electronic equipment), - Annex A, index 4b (immunity characteristics of train detection systems), - Annex A, indices 12a and 12b (emission and susceptibility limits of balise and loop interfaces), - Annex A, index 12c (emission and susceptibility limits of train radio interfaces). 3.2.5.2.
Control-command compatibility Section 4, supported by Annexes A and B, defines the requirements for the interoperability of the control-command subsystem for each class of interface, class A and class B. 4.
CHARACTERISATION OF THE SUBSYSTEM The trans-European high-speed rail system, to which Directive 96/48/EC applies and of which the control-command subsystem is a part, is an integrated system which requires the functions, interfaces and performance (all of which are basic parameters) to be verified, in particular so as to ensure that the system is interoperable and that the essential requirements are met.
The control-command characterisation is presented in the following order: - functions - interfaces internal to control-command - interfaces to other TSIs - performance.
BASIC PARAMETERS OF THE SUBSYSTEM: INTERNAL FUNCTIONS This section specifies the functions of control-command class A equipment that are essential to interoperability.
The ETCS functions required for interoperability are: - the cab-signalling function, - the automatic train protection function, comprising: - selecting the speed supervision mode, - defining and providing the intervention function, - setting the train characteristics, - proving train integrity(3) (note: rolling stock TSI is also concerned), - equipment health monitoring and failure mode support, comprising: - initialising the subsystem, - testing the subsystem in service, - testing the subsystem in depot, - providing failure mode support, - exchanging data between the trackside assembly and the on-board assembly, - managing the STMs, - support to cab-signalling and automatic train protection, comprising: - supporting driving, - providing odometry, - recording data, - the vigilance function.
The GSM-R functions required for interoperability are the voice and data communication between trackside and on-board. - In Annex A, index 0a, the ETCS functional requirement specifications are indicated. - In Annex A, index 0b, the GSM-R functional requirement specifications are indicated.
ETCS functions shall be implemented in accordance with the technical specifications indicated in Annex A, indices 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and their performance shall conform to indices 2 and 18.
The vigilance function shall be implemented on-board in accordance with Annex A, index 10.
GSM-R radio functions shall be implemented in accordance with the technical specifications indicated in Annex A, index 11. 4.1.2.
This section specifies the functions of control-command class A internal interfaces which are essential for interoperability. 4.1.2.1.
The requirements are specified in Annex A, index 15. 4.1.3.
THE EXTERNAL CLASS A INTERFACES REQUIRED FOR INTEROPERABILITY This section specifies the external interfaces of the control-command subsystem, as defined in this TSI, to the other TSI subsystems that are essential to interoperability.
train data interfaces: - brakes, - train integrity, - train length; F.
To ensure that the on-board equipment for the control-command systems may be universally used for new rolling stock accepted for operation upon the trans-European high-speed network, there shall be applied to the electrical environment of the rolling stock and the susceptibility of the interoperable control-command system to electrical interference a common specification of electromagnetic compatibility as defined in Annex A, index 4a.
The interface requirements between the radio communications and the rolling stock subsystem are specified in Annex A, index 11.
The other interface requirements between the control-command functions and the rolling stock subsystem are specified in Annex A, index 17.
THE EXTERNAL CLASS B INTERFACES REQUIRED FOR INTEROPERABILITY Only the following class A requirements shall apply to external class B interfaces: - vehicle geometry and movement (see 4.2.1.2(C)), - EMC (see section 7).
SPECIFIED PERFORMANCE FOR INTEROPERABILITY Class A systems have to fulfil technical performance requirements in accordance with Annex A, index 18.
Class B systems on interoperable trains have to offer all their available parameters and ranges of parameter values for optimal train running; in particular speed and braking performance of trains must be made usable by control-command braking parameters as far as economically reasonable. 4.4.
SPECIAL CASES: APPLICATION MODALITIES This subject is addressed in Chapter 7. 5.
INTEROPERABILITY CONSTITUENTS Section 5 describes the interoperability constituents adopted for the control-command subsystem. 5.1.
CONTROL-COMMAND INTEROPERABILITY CONSTITUENTS As described in section 2, the control-command subsystem is divided into two assemblies, trackside and on-board.
The interoperability constituents in the control-command subsystem are listed in Tables 5.1 and 5.2: - Table 5.1 lists the interoperability constituents of the control-command on-board assembly. - Table 5.2 lists the interoperability constituents of the control-command trackside assembly. %gt%TABLE%gt% For each interoperability constituent the reference to European specifications to be applied is given in Annex A.
The groups are defined in Tables 5.1 and 5.2.
Table 5.1b Groups of interoperability constituents in the on-board CC assembly %gt%TABLE%gt% Module H2 can be applied only when a sufficient degree of confidence in the ERTMS technologies exists through return of experience from commercial installations.
INTEROPERABILITY CONSTITUENTS 6.1.1.
Tables 5.1a, 5.1b, 5.2a and 5.2b indicate for each interoperability constituent the indices of Annex A to be applied.
The notified body shall verify that the Member State has approved the national part of the STM. 6.1.1.2.
Definition of assessment procedures The assessment procedures are defined in Annex E to this TSI.
As stated in dection 2 the application of the control-command subsystem is treated as two assemblies: - the on-board assembly, - the trackside assembly.
The line specific implementation of the trackside assembly is defined in the register of infrastructure in accordance with Annex C.
Assessment procedures (modules) When requested by the adjudicating entity or its authorised representative established within the Community, the notified body undertakes the EC verification in accordance with Article 18(1) and Annex VI to Directive 96/48/EC and in accordance with the provisions of the relevant modules as specified in Annex E to this TSI.
The adjudicating entity shall draw up the EC declaration of verification for the trackside and on-board assemblies of the control-command subsystem in accordance with Article 18(1) of and Annex V to Directive 96/48/EC.
APPLICATION OF MODULES The adjudicating entity or its authorised representative established within the Community may choose for the verification procedure of the on-board assembly of the control-command subsystem either: - the type-examination procedure (module SB) indicated in Annex E to this TSI for the design and development phase in combination with either the production quality assurance procedure (module SD) indicated in Annex E to this TSI for the production phase or the product verification procedure (module SF) indicated in Annex E to this TSI, or - the full quality assurance with design examination procedure (module SH2(4)) indicated in Annex E to this TSI.
For the verification procedure of the trackside assembly of the control-command subsystem, the adjudicating entity or its authorised representative established within the Community may choose either: - the unit verification procedure (module SG) indicated in Annex E to this TSI, or - the type-examination procedure (module SB) indicated in Annex E to this TSI for the design and development phase in combination with either the production quality assurance procedure (module SD) indicated in Annex E to this TSI for the production phase or the product verification procedure (module SF) indicated in Annex E to this TSI, or - the full quality assurance with design examination procedure (module SH2) indicated in Annex E to this TSI.
Table 6.1 Control-command verification requirements for on-board assembly %gt%TABLE%gt% Table 6.2 Control-command verification requirements for trackside assembly %gt%TABLE%gt% 7.
In the transition period between the current (pre-unified) situation and the universal application of control-command class A interfaces(5), there will be a number of interoperability solutions in the framework of this TSI, for both the European high-speed infrastructure including connecting lines and the European high speed trains.
This manifold background calls for the setting-up of a coherent trans-European implementation plan for ERTMS (ETCS and GSM-R) that should contribute to an harmonious development of the whole of the trans-European rail network in compliance with the EU strategy for the TEN-transport network.
The following cases in points 7.2.2.1, 7.2.2.2 and 7.2.2.3 (according to Article 1 of the Directive) apply to the abovementioned categories. 7.2.2.1.
Class B control-command equipment trackside EMC limits may remain in use until the control-command subsystem is upgraded.
During this transition phase, it is allowed to use existing class B equipment on-board as a fallback arrangement to class A system: this does not allow an infrastructure manager to require class B systems on-board the interoperable trains for running on such a line. 7.2.2.3.
Existing lines Lines existing before the entry in force of Directive 96/48/EC and, by extension and according to Article 7 of the Directive, lines belonging to a project which is at an advanced stage of development when this TSI is published may be declared as interoperable in the sense of this TSI (see Chapter 6) when they fulfil the requirements of the control-command subsystem described in this TSI.
The existing class B control-command equipment may remain in use (without installation of class A systems) during its life cycle, under the conditions indicated in point 7.2.1.5.
Class B control-command equipment trackside EMC limits may remain in use until the control-command subsystem is upgraded. 7.2.2.4.
Registers of infrastructure (TEN HS) When a line is declared interoperable, the infrastructure manager shall provide railway undertakings with class A and class B information written down in the registers of infrastructure (TEN HS), following Annex C requirements.
This shall be possible, in any case, only for the items listed in Annex C. 7.2.3.
The existing class B control-command equipment may remain in use during its life cycle.
When running on a line which is equipped with both class A and class B systems, the class B systems may act as fallback arrangement for the class A system if the train is equipped with both class A and class B systems.
Class B control-command equipment on-board shall not interfere with other TSI subsystems nor with the other equipment installed upon the infrastructure of the European high-speed network.
Class B control-command equipment on-board shall not be susceptible to emissions from other TSI subsystems. 7.2.3.1.
This shall be possible, in any case, only for the items listed in Annex C. 7.2.4.
Any evolution concerning class A and class B functions and interfaces must be controlled following a procedure to be established by the joint representative body applying Article 6(2) of Directive 96/48/EC. (1) Assembly: because of the mobility of the on-board part, the control-command subsystem is divided in two parts: on-board assembly and trackside assembly (see Figure 1 in Annex D). (2) STM: the specific transmission module (STM) allows class A on-board equipment to operate on lines fitted with class B signalling by using the class B data. (3) Train integrity: the status of the completeness of the train according to operational rules. (4) Module SH2 can be applied only when a sufficient degree of confidence in the ERTMS technologies exists through return of experience from commercial installations. (5) Class A: see section 2. (6) Class B: see section 2. (7) M functions: see section 4. (8) O functions: see section 4.
The European specifications quoted in this TSI are grouped into two columns: %quot%European specifications defining basic parameters%quot% and %quot%Other European specifications%quot%.
Conditions for measurement: - voltage between 1,8 V and 2,0 V.
Use of Annex B 1.
ZUB 123 For information only, systems not used in Member States: 15.
ZUB 121 Remarks: - The selection of systems is based on the list elaborated in the EU research project EURET 1.2. - System 9 (RSDD) was accepted as an additional system in the TSI meeting on 26 February 1998 in Paris. - System 12 (TPWS) was accepted at the 26th AEIF Board meeting.
TPWS on-board equipment includes the AWS functions. - System 15 (EVM) is for information only, as Hungary is not a Member State. - System 16 (LS) is for information only, as the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic are not Member States. - System 17 (ZUB 121) is for information only, as Switzerland is not a Member State. - It is accepted that systems 14 and 17 (ZUB 123 and ZUB 121) are not compatible for mechanical reasons and therefore have individual descriptions.
ASFA Description: ASFA is a cab-signalling and ATP system installed on most lines of RENFE (1676 mm), on metre gauge lines of FEVE, and on the new European gauge NAFA line.
Main characteristics - Nine frequencies range: 55 kHz to 115 kHz - Three different train categories can be selected on-board - Supervision: - acknowledgement of restrictive signal by driver within three seconds - continuous speed supervision (160 km/h or 180 km/h) after passing restrictive signal - speed check (60 km/h, 50 km/h or 35 km/h depending on train type) after passing a transponder 300 m in rear of signal - train trip at signal at danger - line speed. - Reaction: the emergency brake is called if any supervision is violated.
The emergency brake can be released at standstill. - Responsible Member State: Spain ATB ATB exists in two basic versions: ATB first generation and ATB new generation.
The data transmission between coded track circuits and on-board equipment is via inductively coupled air coil pick-up antennae above the rails.
Main characteristics - Data transmission to trains: - 75 Hz carrier frequency - AM modulated speed codes - six speed codes (40, 60, 80, 130, 140) km/h - one exit code - No train characteristics on board (speed code from wayside) - Display to driver: - speed corresponding to speed code - gong in case of code change - bell in case the system requests brake application - Supervision: - speed (continuous) - Reaction: the emergency brake is called in the case of overspeed and the driver does not react to an acoustic warning. - Responsible Member State: the Netherlands Description of ATB new generation: ATC system partially installed on lines of NS.
Main characteristics - Data transmission to trains: - 100 kHz +/- 10 kHz (FSK) - 25 kbit/sec - 119 useful bits per telegram - Train characteristics as input by the driver: - train length - maximum train speed - train braking characteristics - Displays to the driver: - maximum line speed - target speed - target distance - braking curve - Supervision: - line speed - speed restrictions - stopping point - dynamic brake profile - Reaction: - optical pre warning - acoustic warning The emergency brake is called in the case of movement supervision is violated or the driver does not react to an acoustic warning. - Responsible Member State: the Netherlands BACC Description: BACC is installed on all lines exceeding 200 km/h on the network of FS and other lines, which are most of the lines under consideration for interoperability.
The data transmission between coded track circuits and on-board equipment is via inductively coupled air coil pick-up antennae above the rails.
Main characteristics - Data transmission to trains: - 50 Hz carrier frequency - AM modulated speed codes - five speed codes - 178 Hz carrier frequency - AM modulated speed codes - four additional speed codes - Two possible train categories on board (speed code from wayside) - Display to driver: - speed corresponding to speed code - signal aspect (one out of 10) - Supervision: - speed (continuous) - stopping point - Reaction: Emergency brake in case of overspeed - Responsible Member State: Italy Crocodile Description: Crocodile is installed on all major lines of RFF, SNCB and CFL.
Main characteristics - DC powered bar (± 20 V) - No train characteristics on-board - Supervision: acknowledgement by driver - Reaction: the emergency brake is called if the warning is not acknowledged.
Ebicab will brake sufficiently regardless of driver action. - Responsible Member State: Spain Indusi/PZB (Induktive Zugsicherung/Punktförmige Zugbeeinflussung) Description ATP system which is installed on lines in Austria and Germany under consideration for interoperability.
Characteristics - Energising balises: - 27,115 MHz - amplitude modulation for clock pulses - 50 kHz pulse frequency - Data transmission to trains: - 4,5 MHz - 50 kbit/sec - 12 useful bits (total 4 × 8 bits) type analogue - 172 useful bits (total 256 bits) type digital - Except for trainsets, train characteristics must be input by the driver: - train category - maximum train speed - train length - train braking characteristics - Displays to the driver: - state of speed supervision - release speed - Supervision: - line speed - stopping point - dynamic brake profile - speed restrictions - Reaction: Warning of the driver.
Release of the emergency brake is possible only when the train is stationary. - Responsible Member State: France LZB (Linienförmige Zugbeeinflussung) Description ATC system which is installed on all lines in Germany exceeding 160 km/h, which are significant parts of the lines under consideration for interoperability.
LZB is also installed on lines in Austria and Spain.
The system consists of a trackside part, which again has the building parts: - adaptation to interlocking systems and respective data transmission - data processing and MMI in LZB centre - data transmission to and from other LZB centres - data transmission system to and from trains The on-board equipment normally has an integrated Indusi function.
LZB is typically connected with automatic motor and brake control. - Responsible Member States: Austria, Germany, Spain RSDD (Ripetizione Segnali Discontinua Digitale) Description RSDD is an ATP system; it can be used alone or superimposed on the BACC infrastructure.
Three types of balises are foreseen, all using the same frequencies for up- and downlink, but with different capacity: - energising frequency: 27,115 MHz - data transmission to trains: - 4,5 MHz - 12/180 bit ASK modulation - 1023 bit FSK modulation - train characteristics: fixed train characteristics are loaded in maintenance facilities, while data depending on train composition are inserted by the driver.
Special balises are used to calibrate the on-board odometer system, before it can be used for train supervision purposes. - Displays to the driver: - maximum permitted speed - target speed - actual train speed - advanced information on secondary targets - warnings before emergency brake intervention - auxiliary information - Supervision: In normal condition (full supervision) the train controls the following characteristics: - line speed, depending on overspeeding track capability and vehicle performances - permanent and temporary speed restriction - level Crossing - stopping point - dynamic brake profile - shunting If one or more characteristics of line cannot be sent to the on-board system (fault, etc.) it is possible to use the system in partial supervision.
In this case the MMI is switched off and the driver has to drive according to lineside signals. - Reactions: - service brake - emergency brake - Responsible Member State: Italy SELCAB Description ATC system which is installed on the high speed line Madrid-Seville as an extension of LZB in station areas.
The on-board equipment LZB 80 (Spain) can also process SELCAB information.
Main characteristics - Data transmission to trains: - 36 kHz ± 0,4 kHz (FSK) - 1200 bit/sec - 83,5 steps per telegram - Train characteristics can be input by the driver: - train length - maximum train speed - train braking characteristics - Displays to the driver: - maximum permitted speed/actual speed as two pointer speedometer - target speed - distance to target - auxiliary indications - Supervision: - line speed - stopping point - direction of movement - dynamic brake profile - speed restrictions - Reaction: the emergency brake is called if the movement supervision is violated.
The emergency brake in the case of overspeed can be released when the speed is within limits. - Responsible Member States: Spain, United Kingdom TBL 1/2/3 Description TBL is an ATC system partially installed on lines of NMBS/SNCB (presently: 1200 beacons and 120 trainborne equipment TBL1, 200 beacons and 300 trainborne equipment TBL2, all lines for speeds higher than 160 km/h equipped with TBL2).
The trackside part is designated TBL2 in case of interface to relay interlockings, and TBL3 in case of serial interface to electronic interlocking.
Main characteristics - Data transmission to trains: - 100 kHz ± 10 kHz (FSK) - 25 kbit/sec - 119 useful bits per telegram for TBL2/3 - five useful decimal data on 40 bits per telegram for TBL1 - Train characteristics as input by the driver (TBL2): - train length - maximum train speed - train braking characteristics (brake weight, type of train, isolations, other specific parameters) - language selection, identification parameters - Displays to the driver: - maximum speed (braking curve) - target speed - target distance - train speed - operating mode - auxiliary indications - Supervision: - line speed - speed restrictions (permanent and temporary) - specific restrictions for freight and other trains - stopping point - dynamic braking profile - direction of movement - vigilance of the driver - auxiliary functions (pantograph, radio commutation) - Reaction: - acoustic and optical warnings - the emergency brake is called when the movement supervision is violated or the driver does not acknowledge the warning. - Responsible Member States: Belgium, United Kingdom TPWS Description TPWS is to improve safety, principally at junctions.
TVM 430 is compatible with TVM 300.
The data transmission between coded track circuits and on-board equipment is via inductively coupled air coil pick-up antennae above the rails.
The data transmission between coded track circuits and on-board equipment is via inductively coupled air coil pick-up antennae above the rails.
Main characteristics - Data transmission track to trains: - 75 Hz carrier frequency - amplitude modulated codes (100 %) - seven codes (six speed codes) - Display to driver: - cab signal - signal aspects: stop, permitted speed at the next signal (15, 40, 80, 120, MAX), no transmission/failure, shunting mode - Supervision: - speed limit - vigilance check every 1550 m in case of vactual %amp%lt; vtarget, - vigilance check every 200 m in case of vactual %amp%gt; vtarget - stop aspect - shunting mode speed limitation - Reaction: the emergency brake is triggered: - in the case of driver reaction missing - if the speed limit is still exceeded after vigilance signal - in case of a stop signal being passed with a speed exceeding 15 km/h - in shunting mode immediately after exceeding 40 km/h (the brake is activated in this case without any acoustic signal) - Additional functions: - roll-away protection - comfort function (indication that the signal has been cleared when train is stationary) - Responsible State: Hungary LS (For information only) Description LS is installed on all main lines on the network of Czech Railways (CD) and Railways of the Slovak Republic (ZSR) and on other lines with a speed exceeding 100 km/h.
The carrier frequency is coded by 100 % amplitude modulation.
The data transmission between coded track circuits and on-board equipment is via inductively coupled air coil pick-up antennae above the rails.
Main characteristics - Data transmission to trains: - 75 Hz carrier frequency - AM modulated codes - four speed codes (including stop aspect) - Display to driver: - cab signal - signal aspects: stop, limited speed, caution (speed limit 100 km/h), full speed - Supervision: - speed limit/may be overridden by vigilance control - no distance supervision - Reaction: emergency brake in case of missing driver reaction if speed limit is received - Responsible States: Czech Republic, Slovak Republic ZUB 121 For information only Description ATC system which is installed extensively in Switzerland on lines by SBB and BLS under consideration for interoperability.
It acts through a brake interface unit on the brakes. - the vehicle coupling coil, mounted on the bogie, which receives data from the line. (With this equipment only transmission track to train possible) - the axle-mounted odometer pulse generator, which supplies information for the distance covered, actual speed and driving direction - the cab display and operating panel - an input/output interface to the train-borne radio unit or the integrated train-borne information system (IBIS) to exchange vehicle data entered by the train driver Characteristics - Three frequencies: - 50 kHz checking channel - 100 kHz energy channel - 850 kHz data channel - Data transmission modes: - Time-division multiplex for serial transmission of telegrams with up to 104 usable data bits - On-board data processing (not fail safe) - Single computer processing (supplementary performance level) - Display to the driver: - one four-digit LCD showing: - %quot%8 -- -- 8%quot%: no monitoring or - %quot%8 8 8 8%quot%: monitoring the maximum train speed or - %quot%-- -- -- --%quot%: monitoring the maximum authorised line speed or - %quot%6 0%quot%: target speed or - %quot%I I I I%quot%: information %quot%proceed%quot% received by a loop - Lamps and horn: - emergency brake applied - equipment failure - Buttons: - testing button - emergency stop reset - release button (together with %quot%Signum%quot% release button) - Train data input: train-borne radio-operating panel is used - Supervision/commands: - line speed - stopping point - speed restrictions - dynamic brake profile - control of radio channels - Reaction: - the emergency brake is called if the threshold speed is reached - abort speed monitoring if movement supervision is violated - Responsible State: Switzerland PART 2: RADIO INDEX: 1.
UIC Radio Chapter 1 to 4 2.
UIC Radio Chapter 1 to 4 and 6 3.
FS ETACS and GSM These systems are currently in use in Member States.
UIC Radio Chapter 1 to 4 Description This ground/train radio follows the technical regulations described in UIC code 751-3, third edition, 1.7.1984.
Radio systems following this basic subset allow for simplex and duplex voice communication and use of operating signals (tones), but not for selective calls and for data transmission.
Main characteristics - Frequencies: - train to ground: 457,450 MHz..458,450 MHz. - ground to train: - band A: 467,400 MHz..468,450 MHz. - band B: 447,400 MHz..448,450 MHz (only to be used when band A is not available). - frequency spacing 25 kHz - duplex frequency couples 10 MHz apart - grouping of 4 channels, preferred 62... 65 for international traffic - agreement on frequencies used bilateral or multilateral - Sensitivity: - %amp%gt; 1 μV at %amp%gt; 20 dB signal-to-noise ratio (mobile) - %amp%gt; 2 μV (lineside) - Radiating power: - 6 W mobile - 6 W lineside - Antenna characteristics: - λ/4 omnidirectional (mobile) - 4 m above rail (mobile) - omnidirectional or directional (lineside) - in tunnels leaky cables or very directional aerials (lineside) - terminating resistor 50 Ohms - Polarisation: - vertical - in tunnels, any polarisation - Frequency deviation: - %amp%lt; 1,75 kHz for operating tone - %amp%lt; 2,25 kHz for voice - Modes of operation: - mode 1, duplex mode - mode 2, semiduplex mode - Switchover of channels onboard - manually by input of channel number - automatic, depending on receiver voltage - %gt%TABLE%gt% - Responsible Member States: France, Germany, Luxembourg UIC Radio Chapter 1 to 4 and 6 Description This ground/train radio follows the technical regulations described in UIC code 751-3, third edition, 1.7.1984.
Main characteristics - Frequencies: - train to ground: 457,450 MHz..458,450 MHz. - ground to train: - band A: 467,400 MHz..468,450 MHz. - band B: 447,400 MHz..448,450 MHz (only to be used when band A is not available). - frequency spacing 25 kHz - duplex frequency couples 10 MHz apart - grouping of 4 channels, preferred 62... 65 for international traffic - agreement on frequencies used bilateral or multilateral - Sensitivity: - %amp%gt; 1 μV at %amp%gt; 20 dB signal-to-noise ratio (mobile) - %amp%gt; 2 μV (lineside) - Radiating power: - 6 W mobile - 6 W lineside - Antenna characteristics: - λ/4 omnidirectional (mobile) - 4 m above rail (mobile) - omnidirectional or directional (lineside) - in tunnels leaky cables or very directional aerials (lineside) - terminating resistor 50 Ohms - Polarisation: - vertical - in tunnels, any polarisation - Frequency deviation: - %amp%lt; 1,75 kHz for operating tone - %amp%lt; 2,25 kHz for voice - Modes of operation: - mode 1, duplex mode - mode 2, semi-duplex mode - Switchover of channels onboard - manually by input of channel number - automatic, depending on receiver voltage - %gt%TABLE%gt% - Telegram structure: - synchronisation header: 1111 1111 0010 - 6-decimal train number BCD coded - two positions of information four bits each - 7 bit redundancy code, polynomial: 1110 000 1 (H = 4) - Telegram transmission: - 600 bits/sec - FSK, %quot%0%quot% = 1700 Hz, %quot%1%quot% = 1300 Hz - Messages (coding given in hexadecimal representation) - %gt%TABLE%gt% - %gt%TABLE%gt% - Responsible Member States: Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Germany, the Netherlands, Norway, Spain UIC Radio Chapter 1 to 4 and 6 and 7 Description This ground/train radio follows the technical regulations described in UIC code 751-3, third edition, 1.7.1984.
Main characteristics - Frequencies: - train to ground: 448,34375..448,48125 MHz. (Note: There are additional channels for which the information is to be obtained.) - ground to train: 454,84375 MHz..454,98125 MHz. - frequency spacing 12,5 kHz - duplex frequency couples 6,5 MHz apart - agreement on frequencies used bilateral or multilateral - Sensitivity: - 1 μV at %amp%gt; 20 dB signal to noise ratio (mobile) - %amp%lt; 2 ìV (lineside) - Radiating power: - 10 W mobile - 10 W lineside - Antenna characteristics: - ë/4 omnidirectional (mobile) - 4 m above rail (mobile) - omnidirectional or directional (lineside) - in tunnels leaky cables or very directional aerials (lineside) - terminating resistor 50 Ohms - Polarisation: - vertical - in tunnels, horizontal - Frequency deviation: - 300 Hz for CTCSS tones - 1,5 kHz for data transmission - 1,75 kHz for emergency tone - %amp%lt; 2,5 kHz for voice - Modes of operation: - mode 1, duplex mode - Switchover of channels onboard: - manually by input of channel number - automatic, depending on message sent from control centre - Operating tones: - CTCSS: X, Y, Z, 203,5 Hz - emergency call: 1520 Hz - Telegram structure: - synchronisation header: 00100011 11101011 - information elements - signalling telegrams (three bytes) - message type (system free, system busy, general call, emergency acknowledgement, etc.) - area code - channel number - data telegrams (eight bytes) - message type (system free, system busy, general call, emergency acknowledgement, etc.) - area Code - channel number plus train number in five decimal character or four-alphanumeric character BCD-coded format, or signal number (three bytes). - Train Stock number (6 digits) (three bytes) - 7-bit redundancy code, polynomial: 110011011 (H = 4) - Telegram transmission: - 1200 bit's - FFSK, %quot%0%quot% = 1800 Hz, %quot%1%quot% = 1200 Hz - Messages (coding given in hexadecimal representation) - %gt%TABLE%gt% - %gt%TABLE%gt% - Responsible Member State: United Kingdom BR 1609 issue 2 Commonly called national radio network (NRN) Description This ground/train radio follows the technical regulations described in Railtrack specification BR 1609, issue 2, August 1987.
Main characteristics - Frequencies: sub-band 2 of the 174 MHz to 225 MHz band - 196,85 to 198,3 MHz train to ground - 204,85 to 206,3 MHz ground to train - frequency spacing 12,5 kHz - duplex frequency couples 8,0 MHz apart - not all the frequencies within the bands indicated are used - Sensitivity: - %amp%lt; 0,6 ìV at 12 dB signal-to-noise ratio (mobile) - %amp%lt; 0,3 ìV at 12 dB signal-to-noise ratio (lineside) - Radiating power: - %amp%gt; 25 W mobile - %amp%gt; 25 W lineside - Antenna characteristics: - λ/4 omnidirectional (mobile) - 4 m above rail (mobile) - omnidirectional or directional (lineside) - terminating resistor 50 Ohms - no coverage in tunnels - Polarisation: - vertical - Modes of operation: - duplex mode (fixed to fixed) - simplex mode (fixed to mobile) - Switchover of channels on-board - manual input of common signalling channel.
Most journeys in the UK are within one area and the driver enters it at the start of the journey - automatic change to voice channel following a message sent from control centre - Audio frequency range: - 300 Hz...2500 Hz for speech - Frequency deviation: - %amp%lt; 2,5 kHz - Message transmission: - 1200 bits/sec - FFSK, %quot%0%quot% = 1800 Hz, %quot%1%quot% = 1200 Hz - Message structure: - data modulation for all RF signalling shall conform to MPT1323 section 6, with message formats generally as defined in MPT1327 - Message types from a train: - complete number required.
They are therefore part of the application layer in the ISO/OSI layer model. - Responsible Member State: Italy UIC Radio Chapter 1-4 (TTT radio system installed at Cascais line) Description This ground/train radio follows the technical regulations described in UIC code 751-3, third edition, 1.7.1984.
Radio system use digital selective call (according MPT 1327-1200 bit/s FFSK) and 50 baud subaudio FSK for base station signalling.
Main characteristics Frequencies: - train to ground: 457,700 MHz..457,800 MHz. - ground to train: Band A: 467,625 MHz. 467,875 MHz - frequency spacing 12,5 kHz - duplex frequency couples 10 MHz apart - grouping of four channels, preferred 62, 63, 73 and 75 for international traffic Sensitivity: - 1 mV at %amp%gt; 20 dB signal to noise ratio (mobile) - 2 mV (lineside) Radiating power: - 6 W mobile - 6 W lineside Antenna characteristics: - λ/4 omnidirectional (mobile) - 4 m above rail (mobile) - omnidirectional or directional (lineside) - in tunnels leaky cables or helical antennas (lineside) - terminating resistor 50 Ohms Polarisation: - vertical - in tunnels, any polarisation RF Modulation: - radiomodem 1200b/s, FM - radiomodem (Tx only) 50 baud subaudio, FM - voice in PM Frequency deviation: - 1,75 kHz for FFSK (1200 bit/s) - 0,3 kHz for FSK (50 baud) - %amp%lt; 2,3 kHz for voice Modes of operation: - mode 1, half-duplex mode - mode 1, simplex mode Switchover of channels onboard - manually by input of group number - automatic inside the group, depending on receiver voltage Telegram structure: - according MPT 1327 Telegram transmission: - 1200 bits/sec - FFSK, %quot%0%quot% = 1800 Hz, %quot%1%quot% = 1200 Hz Responsible Member State: Portugal ANNEX C LINE-SPECIFIC CHARACTERISTICS AND TRAIN-SPECIFIC CHARACTERISTICS FOR LINES AND TRAINS DECLARED AS INTEROPERABLE, AND RESULTING REQUIREMENTS 1.
General requirements As stated in section 7, the line-specific characteristics defined in this Annex shall be included in the register of infrastructure by the infrastructure manager of lines declared as interoperable by the responsible Member State (Article 14 of Directive 96/48/EC) in the frame of the trans-European high-speed rail system (Annex I to Directive 96/48/EC).
As stated in section 7, the train-specific characteristics defined in this Annex shall be included in the register of rolling stock by the train operator of trains declared as interoperable in the frame of the trans-European high-speed rail system (Annex I to Directive 96/48/EC).
Annex C deals with those aspects of the control-command assemblies which are covered neither by Annex A nor by Annex B, and with the options permitted for class A and class B systems and interfaces (see Figure 1). 2.
This information has to be available for and used by the train operators in the form of a line specific handbook (register of infrastructure) which can also contain other particularities of other TSIs (e.g., the TSI operation contains in the rule book Annex B systems and degraded modes) The register of infrastructure may be specific to one line or a group of lines having the same characteristics.
In addition, because European specifications do not cover the whole onboard assembly control-command the infrastructure controller needs additional information concerning the use of class B systems, and the characteristics of the train which are relevant for trackside non-class B systems.
This information concerns, for example: - choices in the frame of technical compatibility requirements listed in Annex A, - choices in the frame of technical compatibility requirements listed in Annex B, - EMC values (because of the use on the lines concerned of equipment which is not covered by European specification referred to by TSIs, for instance track circuits being sensitive to traction currents and their harmonics and axle-counters systems being sensitive to electromagnetic fields), - geometric and electrical parameters of the train such as length, maximal distance of axles in the train, length of the nose of the first and of the last car of the train, maximal electrical resistance between the wheels of an axle (in context with Annex A, item 16, because of the track-circuit design arrangement), - braking parameters for class A system, - braking parameters for class B systems, - general braking parameters, - types of brakes, - eddy current brake installed, - magnetic brake installed, - climatic conditions and physical conditions in which the train is specified to operate.
This information has to be available for and to be used by the infrastructure managers by means of a train specific handbook (register of rolling stock) which can also address the possibility of or the need for auxiliary functions for the train to be manageable or to be managed by control-command, e.g., for passage of neutral sections, speed reduction in special circumstances depending of the train and line characteristics (tunnels) and particularities of other TSIs.
For class B systems, the measures implemented in the context of the responsible Member State given in Annex B apply.
List of specific technical characteristics and the requirements associated with an interoperable line (from A to B) and with an interoperable train (type xyz) %gt%TABLE%gt% ANNEX D TSI CC (high-speed rail system) - Figure 1 %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2002245EN.011802.TIF%quot%%gt% This figure shows the principle only ANNEX E MODULES FOR EC DECLARATION OF CONFORMITY AND EC DECLARATION OF SUBSYSTEM VERIFICATION Module B (type-examination) Conformity assessment of interoperability constituents 1.
The application for the type-examination must be lodged by the manufacturer or his authorised representative established within the Community with a notified body of his choice.
The application must include: - the name and address of the manufacturer and, if the application is lodged by the authorised representative, his name and address in addition, - a written declaration that the same application has not been lodged with any other notified body, - the technical documentation, as described in point 3.
The technical documentation must contain: - a general type-description, - conceptual design and manufacturing drawings and schemes of components, subassemblies, circuits, etc., - descriptions and explanations necessary for the understanding of said drawings and schemes and the operation of the product, - conditions of integration of the interoperability constituent in its system environment (subassembly, assembly, subsystem) and the necessary interface conditions, - conditions for use and maintenance of the interoperability constituent (restrictions of running time or distance, wear limits, etc.), - a list of the technical specifications, against which the conformity of the interoperability constituent is to be assessed (relevant TSI and/or European specification with relevant clauses), - descriptions of the solutions adopted to meet the requirements of the TSI in cases where the European specifications referred to in the TSI have not been applied in full(1), - results of design calculations made, examinations carried out, etc., - test reports. 4.
if type tests are requested in the TSI, verify that the specimen(s) has (have) been manufactured in conformity with the technical documentation, and carry out or have carried out the type tests in accordance with the provisions of the TSI and the European specification referred to in the TSI, 4.5.
identify the elements which have been designed in accordance with the relevant provisions of the TSI and the European specification referred to in the TSI, as well as the elements which have been designed without applying the relevant provisions of those European specifications(2), 4.6.
This additional approval is given in the form of an addition to the original type-examination certificate, or a new certificate will be issued after withdrawal of the old certificate. 7.
This procedure can be repeated. 8.
Each notified body must communicate to the other notified bodies the relevant information concerning the type-examination certificates it has withdrawn or refused. 9.
The annexes to the certificates must be kept at the disposal of the other notified bodies. 10.
Module D (production quality assurance) Conformity assessment of interoperability constituents 1.
This module describes the procedure whereby the manufacturer or his authorised representative established within the Community who satisfies the obligations of point 2 ensures and declares that the interoperability constituent concerned is in conformity with the type as described in the EC type-examination certificate and satisfies the requirements of the Directive 96/48/EC and of the TSI that apply to it. 2.
The manufacturer must operate an approved quality system for production, final product inspection and testing as specified in point 3 and is subject to monitoring as specified in point 4. 3.
Quality system 3.1.
The application must include: - all relevant information for the product category representative for the interoperability constituents envisaged, - the documentation concerning the quality system, - the technical documentation of the approved type and a copy of the type-examination certificate. 3.2.
The quality system documentation must permit a consistent interpretation of the quality programmes, plan, manuals and records.
It must contain in particular an adequate description of: - the quality objectives and the organisational structure, - responsibilities and powers of the management with regard to product quality, - the manufacturing, quality control and quality assurance techniques, processes and systematic actions that will be used, - the examinations and tests that will be carried out before, during and after manufacture, and the frequency with which they will be carried out, - the quality records, such as inspection reports and test data, calibration data, qualification reports of the personnel concerned, etc., - the means to monitor the achievement of the required product quality and the effective operation of the quality system. 3.3.
The notified body must assess the quality system to determine whether it satisfies the requirements referred to in point 3.2.
The audit must be specific for the product category, which is representative for the interoperability constituent.
The notification must contain the conclusions of the examination and the reasoned assessment decision. 3.4.
The notified body must evaluate the modifications proposed and decide whether the amended quality system will still satisfy the requirements referred to in point 3.2 or whether a re-assessment is required.
The notification must contain the conclusions of the examination and the reasoned assessment decision. 3.5.
Each notified body must communicate to the other notified bodies the relevant information concerning the quality system approvals which it has withdrawn or refused. 3.6.
The other notified bodies will receive copies of the quality system approvals issued on request. 4.
Surveillance of the quality system under the responsibility of the notified body 4.1.
The purpose of surveillance is to make sure that the manufacturer duly fulfils the obligations arising out of the approved quality system. 4.2.
The manufacturer must allow the notified body entrance for inspection purposes to the locations of manufacture, inspection and testing, and storage and must provide it with all necessary information, in particular: - the quality system documentation, - the quality records, such as inspection reports and test data, calibration data, qualification reports of the personnel concerned, etc. 4.3.
The frequency of the audits shall be at least once a year. 4.4.
The manufacturer must, for a period of 10 years after the last product has been manufactured, keep at the disposal of the national authorities: - the documentation referred to in the second indent of point 3.1, - the updating referred to in point 3.4, - the decisions and reports from the notified body which are referred to in the final paragraph of point 3.4, points 4.3 and 4.4. 6.
The EC declaration of conformity and the accompanying documents must be dated and signed.
The declaration must be written in the same language of the technical file and must contain the following: - the Directive references (Directive 96/48/EC and other directives, to which the interoperability constituent may be subject), - the name and address of the manufacturer or his authorised representative established within the Community (give trade name and full address and in the case of authorised representative also give the trade name of the manufacturer or constructor), - description of interoperability constituent (make, type, etc.), - description of the procedure (module) followed in order to declare conformity, - all of the relevant descriptions met by the interoperability constituent and in particular its conditions of use, - name and address of the notified body(ies) involved in the procedure followed in respect of conformity and date of examination certificates together with the duration and conditions of validity of the certificate, - reference to this TSI and any other applicable TSI and where appropriate reference to European specification, - identification of signatory having received power to engage the manufacturer or his authorised representative established within the Community.
The certificates to be referred to are: - the quality system approval and surveillance reports indicated in points 3 and 4, - the type-examination certificate and its additions. 7.
Module F (product verification) Conformity assessment of interoperability constituents 1.
This module describes that part of the procedure whereby a manufacturer or his authorised representative established within the Community checks and attests that the interoperability constituent concerned and subject to the provisions of point 3 is in conformity with the type as described in the EC type-examination certificate and satisfies the requirements of the Directive 96/48/EC and of the TSI that apply to it. 2.
The manufacturer must take all measures necessary in order that the manufacturing process ensures conformity of the interoperability constituents with the type as described in the EC type-examination certificate and with the requirements of the Directive 96/48/EC and of the TSI that apply to them. 3.
The notified body must carry out the appropriate examinations and tests in order to check the conformity of the interoperability constituent with the type as described in the type-examination certificate and with the requirements of the TSI either by examination and testing of every interoperability constituent as specified in point 4 or by examination and testing of interoperability constituents on a statistical basis, as specified in point 5, at the choice of the manufacturer. 4.
All products must be individually examined and appropriate tests as set out in the relevant European specifications referred to in the TSI or equivalent tests shall be carried out in order to verify their conformity with the type as described in the type-examination certificate and the requirements of the TSI that apply to them(4). 4.2.
Statistical verification 5.1.
The manufacturer must present his interoperability constituents in the form of homogeneous lots and shall take all measures necessary in order that the manufacturing process ensures the homogeneity of each lot produced. 5.2.
Interoperability constituents in a sample shall be individually examined and appropriate tests as set out in the relevant European specification referred to in Article 10 of Directive 96/48/EC, or equivalent tests, shall be carried out to ensure their conformity with the requirements of the Directive 96/48/EC and of the TSI which apply to them and to determine whether the lot is accepted or rejected(5). 5.3.
The EC declaration of conformity and the accompanying documents must be dated and signed.
The declaration must be written in the same language of the technical file and must contain the following: - the Directive references (Directive 96/48/EC and other directives, to which the interoperability constituent may be subject), - the name and address of the manufacturer or his authorised representative established within the Community (give trade name and full address and in the case of authorised representative also give the trade name of the manufacturer or constructor), - description of interoperability constituent (make, type, etc.), - description of the procedure (module) followed in order to declare conformity, - all of the relevant descriptions met by the interoperability constituent and in particular its conditions of use, - name and address of the notified body(ies) involved in the procedure followed in respect of conformity and date of examination certificates together with the duration and conditions of validity of the certificate, - reference to this TSI and any other applicable TSI and where appropriate reference to European specification, - identification of signatory having received power to engage the manufacturer or his authorised representative established within the Community.
The certificates to be referred to are: - the EC type-examination certificate and its additions, - the certificate of conformity as mentioned under point 4 or 5. 7.
Module H2(6) (full quality assurance with design examination) Conformity assessment of interoperability constituents 1.
The manufacturer must operate an approved quality system for design, manufacture and final product inspection and testing as specified in point 3 and shall be subject to surveillance as specified in point 4. 3.
Quality system 3.1.
The application must include: - all relevant information for the product category representative for the interoperability constituent envisaged, - the quality system's documentation. 3.2.
This quality system documentation shall ensure a common understanding of the quality policies and procedures such as quality programmes, plans, manuals and records.
It must contain in particular an adequate description of: - the quality objectives and the organisational structure, - responsibilities and powers of the management with regard to design and product quality, - the technical design specifications, including European specifications, that will be applied, and, where the European specifications referred to in Article 10 of Directive 96/48/EC will not be applied in full, the means that will be used to ensure that the requirements of the Directive and of the TSI that apply to the interoperability constituent will be met(7), - the design control and design verification techniques, processes and systematic actions that will be used when designing the interoperability constituents pertaining to the product category covered, - the corresponding manufacturing, quality control and quality assurance techniques, processes and systematic actions that will be used, - the examinations and tests that will be carried out before, during and after manufacture, and the frequency with which they will be carried out, - the quality records, such as inspection reports and test data, calibration data, qualification reports of the personnel concerned, etc., - the means to monitor the achievement of the required design and product quality and the effective operation of the quality system.
The quality policies and procedures shall cover in particular the assessment phases, as design review, review of manufacturing process and type tests, as they are specified in the TSI for different characteristics and performances of the interoperability constituent. 3.3.
The notified body must assess the quality system to determine whether it satisfies the requirements referred to in point 3.2.
The audit must be specific for the product category, which is representative for the interoperability constituent.
The notification must contain the conclusions of the examination and the reasoned assessment decision. 3.4.
The manufacturer or his authorised representative must keep the notified body that has approved the quality system informed of any intended updating of the quality system.
The notified body must evaluate the modifications proposed and decide whether the amended quality system will still satisfy the requirements referred to in point 3.2 or whether a reassessment is required.
The notification shall contain the conclusions of the examination and the reasoned assessment decision. 4.
Surveillance of the quality system under the responsibility of the notified body 4.1.
The purpose of surveillance is to make sure that the manufacturer duly fulfils the obligations arising out of the approved quality system. 4.2.
The manufacturer must allow the notified body entrance for inspection purposes to the locations of design, manufacture, inspection and testing, and storage, and shall provide it with all necessary information, in particular: - the quality system documentation, - the quality records as foreseen by the design part of the quality system, such as results of analyses, calculations, tests, etc., - the quality records as foreseen by the manufacturing part of the quality system, such as inspection reports and test data, calibration data, qualification reports of the personnel concerned, etc. 4.3.
The frequency of the audits shall be at least once a year. 4.4.
The manufacturer must, for a period of 10 years after the last product has been manufactured, keep at the disposal of the national authorities: - the documentation referred to in the second indent of the second subparagraph of point 3.1, - the updating referred to in the second subparagraph of point 3.4, - the decisions and reports from the notified body which are referred to in the final subparagraph of point 3.4, and points 4.3 and 4.4. 6.
It must include: - the technical design specifications, including European specifications, that have been applied, - the necessary supporting evidence for their adequacy, in particular where the European specifications referred to in Article 10 of Directive 96/48/EC have not been applied in full.
This supporting evidence must include the results of tests carried out by the appropriate laboratory of the manufacturer or on his behalf(8). 6.3.
This procedure can be repeated. 7.
The EC declaration of conformity and its accompanying documents must be dated and signed.
The declaration must be written in the same language of the technical file and must contain the following: - the Directive references (Directive 96/48/EC and other directives to which the interoperability constituent may be subject), - the name and address of the manufacturer or his authorised representative established within the Community (give trade name and full address and in the case of authorised representative also give the trade name of the manufacturer or constructor), - description of interoperability constituent (make, type, etc.), - description of the procedure (module) followed in order to declare conformity, - all of the relevant descriptions met by the interoperability constituent and in particular its conditions of use, - name and address of the notified body(ies) involved in the procedure followed in respect of conformity and date of examination certificates together with the duration and conditions of validity of the certificate, - reference to this TSI and other applicable TSI and where appropriate to European specifications, - identification of signatory having received power to engage the manufacturer or his authorised representative established within the Community.
The certificates to be referred to are: - the quality system approval and surveillance reports indicated in points 3 and 4, - the design examination certificate and its additions. 9.
Module SB (type-examination) EC verification of control-command subsystem(9) 1.
This module describes the part of the EC verification procedure whereby a notified body checks and certifies at the request of an adjudicating entity or its authorised representative established within the Community, that a type of a control-command subsystem, representative for the production envisaged, - complies with this TSI and any other applicable TSI, which demonstrates that the essential requirements of the Directive 96/48/EC have been met, - complies with the other regulations deriving from the Treaty. 2.
The application includes: - name and address of the adjudicating entity or its authorised representative - the technical documentation, as described in point 3. 3.
It must include: - a general description of the subsystem, overall design and structure, - the Infrastructure or rolling stock register (as appropriate), including all indications as specified in the TSI, - conceptual design and manufacturing drawings and schemes of components, subassemblies, assemblies, circuits, etc., - descriptions and explanations necessary for the understanding of said drawings and schemes and the operation of the product, - the technical design specifications, including European specifications, that have been applied, - the necessary supporting evidence for their adequacy, in particular where European specifications referred to in Article 10 of Directive 96/48/EC and the relevant clauses have not been applied in full(10), - a list of the interoperability constituents, to be incorporated into the subsystem, - technical documentation as regards the manufacturing and the assembling of the subsystem, - a list of manufacturers, involved in the subsystem's design, manufacturing, assembling and installation, - conditions for use and maintenance of the subsystem (restrictions of running time or distance, wear limits, etc.), - a list of the European specifications referred to in Article 10 of Directive 96/48/EC or in the technical design specification, - results of design calculations made, examinations carried out, etc., - test reports.
identify the elements which have been designed in accordance with the relevant provisions of the TSI and the European specifications referred to in Article 10 of Directive 96/48/EC, as well as the elements which have been designed without applying the relevant provisions of those European specifications(11); 4.5.
perform or have performed the appropriate examinations and necessary tests in accordance with points 4.2 and 4.3 to establish whether, where the appropriate European specifications referred to in the TSI have not been applied, the solutions adopted meet the requirements of the TSI(12); 4.6.
This additional approval is given in the form of an addition to the original EC type-examination certificate, or a new certificate will be issued after withdrawal of the old certificate. 7.
This procedure can be repeated. 8.
Each notified body must communicate to the other notified bodies the relevant information concerning the EC type-examination certificates it has withdrawn or refused. 9.
The annexes to the certificates must be kept at the disposal of the other notified bodies. 10.
This module describes the EC verification procedure whereby a notified body checks and certifies, at the request of an adjudicating entity or its authorised representative established within the Community, that a control-command subsystem, for which already an EC type-examination certificate has been issued by a notified body: - complies with this TSI and any other applicable TSI, which demonstrates that the essential requirements of Directive 96/48/EC have been met, - complies with the other regulations deriving from the Treaty and may be put into service.
In the case, that the adjudicating entity is directly involved in the production (including assembling and installation), or that the adjudicating entity itself is responsible for the whole subsystem project (including in particular responsibility for subsystem integration), it has to operate an approved quality system for those activities, as specified in point 3 and subject to surveillance as specified in point 4. 3.
Quality system 3.1.
The manufacturer(s) involved and, if involved the adjudicating entity must lodge an application for assessment of their quality system with a notified body of their choice.
The application must include: - all relevant information for the subsystem envisaged, - the quality system's documentation. - the technical documentation of the approved type and a copy of the type-examination certificate, issued after the completion of the type-examination procedure of module SB.
For manufacturers, only involved in a part of the subsystem project, the information is only requested for that specific relevant part. 3.2.
This quality system documentation shall ensure a common understanding of the quality policies and procedures such as quality programmes, plans, manuals and records.
It must contain in particular an adequate description of the following items for all applicants: - the quality objectives and the organisational structure, - the corresponding manufacturing, quality control and quality assurance techniques, processes and systematic actions that will be used, - the examinations, the checking and tests that will be carried out before, during and after manufacture, assembling and installation and the frequency with which they will be carried out, - the quality records, such as inspection reports and test data, calibration data, qualification reports of the personnel concerned, etc., and for the main contractor: - responsibilities and powers of the management with regard to overall subsystem quality, including in particular the subsystem integration management.
The examinations, tests and checking shall cover all of the following stages: - structure of subsystem, including, in particular, civil-engineering activities, constituent assembly, final adjustment, - final testing of the subsystem, - and, where specified in the TSI, the validation under full operation conditions. 3.3.
The notified body referred to in point 3.1 must assess the quality system to determine whether it satisfies the requirements referred to in point 3.2.
The decision must be notified to the applicant.
The notification must contain the conclusions of the examination and the reasoned assessment decision. 3.4.
The notified body must evaluate the modifications proposed and decide whether the amended quality system will still satisfy the requirements referred to in point 3.2 or whether a reassessment is required.
The notification shall contain the conclusions of the examination and the reasoned assessment decision. 4.
Surveillance of the quality system(s) under the responsibility of the notified body(ies) 4.1.
The notified body as referred to under point 3.1 must have permanent access for inspection purposes to the locations of building sites, production workshops, locations of assembling and installation, storage areas and, where appropriate, prefabrication or testing facilities and, more general, to all premises which it considers necessary for its task, in accordance with the applicant's specific contribution to the subsystem project. 4.3.
The manufacturer(s) and, if involved the adjudicating entity or its authorised representative established within the Community must send the notified body referred to under point 3.1 (or have sent it) all the documents needed for that purpose and in particular the implementation plans and technical records concerning the subsystem (as far as relevant for the specific contribution of the applicant to the subsystem), in particular: - the quality system documentation, including the particular means implemented to ensure that: - (for the main contractor) overall responsibilities and powers of the management for the compliance of the whole entire subsystem are sufficiently and properly defined, - the quality systems of each manufacturer are correctly managed for achieving integration at subsystem level, - the quality records as foreseen by the manufacturing part (including assembling and installation) of the quality system, such as inspection reports and test data, calibration data, qualification reports of the personnel concerned, etc. 4.4.
The frequency of the audits shall be at least once a year, with at least one audit during the time period of performing relevant activities (manufacture, assembling or installation) for the subsystem being the subject of the EC verification procedure mentioned under point 6. 4.5.
The manufacturer(s) and, if involved the adjudicating entity must, for a period of 10 years after the last subsystem has been manufactured, keep at the disposal of the national authorities: - the documentation referred to in the second indent of the second subparagraph of point 3.1, - the updating referred to in the second subparagraph of point 3.4, - the decisions and reports from the notified body which are referred to in the final subparagraph of point 3.4, and points 4.4 and 4.5. 6.
The adjudicating entity or its authorised representative established within the Community must lodge an application for EC verification of the subsystem (through production quality assurance), including coordination of the surveillance of the quality systems as under point 6.5, with a notified body of its choice.
It must include: - the technical documentation regarding the approved type, including the type-examination certificate, as issued after completion of the procedure defined in module SB, and, if not included in this documentation: - the technical design specifications, including European specifications, that have been applied, - the necessary supporting evidence for their adequacy, in particular where the European specifications referred to in Article 10 of Directive 96/48/EC have not been applied in full(14).
This supporting evidence must include the results of tests carried out by the appropriate laboratory of the manufacturer or on his behalf. - the infrastructure or rolling stock register (as appropriate), including all indications as specified in the TSI, - the technical documentation as regards the manufacturing and the assembling of the subsystem, - a list of the interoperability constituents, to be incorporated into the subsystem, - a list of all manufacturers, involved in the subsystem's design, manufacturing, assembling and installation, - the demonstration, that all stages, as mentioned under point 3.2, are covered by quality systems of the manufacturers and/or of the adjudicating entity involved and the evidence of their effectiveness, - indication of the notified body(ies), responsible for the approval and surveillance of these quality systems. 6.3.
The notified body must then examine, if all stages of the subsystem as mentioned in the last subparagraph of point 3.2 are sufficiently and properly covered by the approval and surveillance of the quality system(s) of the applicant(s).
The notified body responsible for the EC verification, if not carrying out the surveillance of the quality system(s) concerned as under point 4, must coordinate the surveillance activities of any other notified body responsible for that task, in order to ensure that correct management of interfaces between the different quality systems in view of subsystem integration has been performed.
This coordination includes the right of the notified body responsible for the EC verification: - to receive all documentation (approval and surveillance), issued by the other notified body(ies), - to witness the surveillance audits as under point 4.4, - to initiate additional audits as under point 4.5 under its responsibility and together with the other notified body(ies). 6.6.
The EC declaration of verification and the accompanying documents must be dated and signed.
The declaration must be written in the same language of the technical file and must contain at least the information included in Annex V to Directive 96/48/EC. 6.7.
The technical file has to include at least the information indicated in Directive 96/48/EC, Article 18(3), and in particular as follows: - all necessary documents relating to the characteristics of the subsystem, - list of interoperability constituents incorporated into the subsystem, - copies of the EC declarations of conformity and, where appropriate, of the EC declarations of suitability for use, which said constituents must be provided in accordance with Article 13 of the Directive, accompanied, where appropriate, by the corresponding documents (certificates, quality system approval and surveillance documents) issued by the notified bodies on the basis of the TSI, - all elements relating to the conditions and limits for use, - all elements relating to the instructions concerning servicing, constant or routine monitoring, adjustment and maintenance, - the EC type-examination certificate for the subsystem and the accompanying technical documentation, - certificate of EC verification of the notified body as mentioned under point 6.5, accompanied by corresponding calculation notes and countersigned by itself, stating that the project complies with the Directive and the TSI, and mentioning, where appropriate, reservations recorded during performance of the activities and not withdrawn; the certificate should also be accompanied by the inspection and audit reports drawn up in connection with the verification, as mentioned under points 4.4 and 4.5 and in particular: - the infrastructure or rolling stock register (as appropriate), including all indications as specified in the TSI. 7.
The complete records accompanying the certificate of EC verification must be lodged with the adjudicating entity or its authorised representative in support of the certificate of EC verification issued by the notified body and must be attached to the EC declaration of verification drawn up by the adjudicating entity intended for the supervisory authority. 8.
Module SF (product verification) EC verification of control-command subsystem(15) 1.
This module describes the EC verification procedure whereby a notified body checks and certifies at the request of an adjudicating entity or its authorised representative established within the Community, that a control-command subsystem, for which already an EC type-examination certificate has been issued by a notified body: - complies with this TSI and any other applicable TSI, which demonstrates that the essential requirements of Directive 96/48/EC have been met, - complies with the other regulations deriving from the Treaty and may be put into service. 2.
The adjudicating entity or its authorised representative established within the Community must lodge an application for EC verification (through product verification) of the subsystem with a notified body of his choice.
The application includes: - name and address of the adjudicating entity or its authorised representative, - the technical documentation. 3.
The adjudicating entity must take all measures necessary in order that the manufacturing process (including assembling and integration of interoperability constituents) ensures conformity of the subsystem with the type as described in the EC type-examination certificate and with the requirements that apply to them. 5.
The notified body must carry out the appropriate examinations and tests in order to check the conformity of the subsystem with the type as described in the EC type-examination certificate and with the requirements of Directive 96/48/EC and the TSI by examination and testing of every subsystem, manufactured as a serial product, as specified under point 4. 7.
The examinations, tests and checking shall extend to the following stages as provided for in the TSI: - structure of subsystem, including constituent assembly and overall adjustments, - final testing of the subsystem, - and, whenever specified in the TSI, the validation under full operational conditions. 7.2.
All subsystems (as serial products) must be individually examined and appropriate tests and verifications as set out in the TSI and in the relevant European specifications (or equivalent tests(17)) shall be carried out in order to verify their conformity with the type as described in the type-examination certificate and the requirements of the TSI that apply to them. 8.
The notified body may agree with the adjudicating entity the locations where the tests will be carried out and may agree that final testing of the subsystem and, whenever required in the TSI, tests or validation under full operating conditions, are carried out by the adjudicating entity under direct supervision and attendance of the notified body. 9.
Where the subsystem meets the requirements of Directive 96/48/EC and the TSI, the notified body must then, based on the tests, verifications and checkings carried out on all serial products as indicated in point 7 and required in the TSI and in the European specification referred to in Article 10 of Directive 96/48/EC, draw up the certificate of EC verification intended for the adjudicating entity or its authorised representative established within the Community, which in turn draws up the EC declaration of verification intended for the supervisory authority in the Member State where the subsystem is located and/or operates.
The EC declaration of verification and the accompanying documents must be dated and signed.
The declaration must be written in the same language of the technical file and must contain at least the information included in Annex V to Directive 96/48/EC. 11.
The technical file has to include at least the information indicated in Directive 96/48/EC, Article 18(3), and in particular as follows: - all necessary documents relating to the characteristics of the subsystem, - the infrastructure or rolling stock register (as appropriate), including all indications as specified in the TSI, - list of interoperability constituents incorporated into the subsystem, - copies of the EC declarations of conformity and, where appropriate, of the EC declarations of suitability for use, which said constituents must be provided in accordance with Article 13 of the Directive, accompanied, where appropriate, by the corresponding documents (certificates, quality system approval and surveillance documents) issued by the notified bodies on the basis of the TSI, - all elements relating to conditions and limits for use, - all elements relating to the instructions concerning servicing, constant or routine monitoring, adjustment and maintenance, - EC type-examination certificate and accompanying technical documentation, - certificate of EC verification of the notified body as mentioned under point 10, accompanied by corresponding calculation notes and countersigned by itself, stating that the project complies with the Directive and the TSI, and mentioning, where appropriate, reservations recorded during performance of activities and not withdrawn; the certificate should also be accompanied, if relevant, by the inspection and audit reports drawn up in connection with the verification. 12.
The complete records accompanying the certificate of EC verification must be lodged with the adjudicating entity or its authorised representative in support of the certificate of EC verification issued by the notified body and must be attached to the EC declaration of verification drawn up by the adjudicating entity intended for the supervisory authority. 13.
Module SG (Unit verification) EC verification of control-command subsystem(18) 1.
This module describes the EC verification procedure whereby a notified body checks and certifies, at the request of an adjudicating entity or its authorised representative established within the Community, that a control-command subsystem: - complies with this TSI and any other applicable TSI, which demonstrates that the essential requirements of Directive 96/48/EC have been met, - complies with the other regulations deriving from the Treaty and may be put into service. 2.
The adjudicating entity or its authorised representative established within the Community must lodge an application for EC verification (through unit verification) of the subsystem with a notified body of his choice.
The application includes: - the name and address of the adjudicating entity or its authorised representative - the technical documentation. 3.
It must include: - a general description of the subsystem, overall design and structure, - the infrastructure register, including all indications as specified in the TSI, - conceptual design and manufacturing drawings and schemes of subassemblies, circuits, etc., - technical documentation as regards the manufacturing and the assembling of the subsystem, - the technical design specifications, including European specifications, that have been applied, - the necessary supporting evidence for their adequacy, in particular where European specifications have not been applied in full(19), - a list of the interoperability constituents, to be incorporated into the subsystem, - a list of manufacturers, involved in the subsystem's design, manufacturing, assembling and installation, - a list of the European specifications.
The notified body must examine the application, and carry out the appropriate tests and verifications as set out in the TSI and/or in the European specifications referred to in the TSI, to ensure conformity with the essential requirements of the Directive as provided for in the TSI.
The examinations, tests and checking shall extend to the following stages as provided for in the TSI: - overall design, - structure of subsystem, including, in particular and when relevant, civil-engineering activities, constituent assembly, overall adjustments, - final testing of the subsystem, - and, whenever specified in the TSI, the validation under full operational conditions. 5.
The notified body may agree with the adjudicating entity the locations where the tests will be carried out and may agree that final subsystem tests and, whenever required in the TSI, tests in full operating conditions, are carried out by the adjudicating entity under direct supervision and attendance of the notified body. 6.
Where the subsystem meets the requirements of the TSI, the notified body must then, based on the tests, verifications and checkings carried out as required in the TSI and in the European specifications referred to in the TSI, draw up the certificate of EC verification intended for the adjudicating entity or its authorised representative established within the Community, which in turn draws up the EC declaration of verification intended for the supervisory authority in the Member State where the subsystem is located and/or operates.
The EC declaration of verification and the accompanying documents must be dated and signed.
The declaration must be written in the same language as the technical file and must contain at least the information included in Annex V to Directive 96/48/EC. 8.
The technical file has to include at least the information indicated in Directive 96/48/EC, Article 18(3), and in particular as follows: - all necessary documents relating to the characteristics of the subsystem, - list of interoperability constituents incorporated into the subsystem, - copies of the EC declarations of conformity and, where appropriate, of the EC declarations of suitability for use, which said constituents must be provided in accordance with Article 13 of the Directive, accompanied, where appropriate, by the corresponding documents (certificates, quality system approval and surveillance documents) issued by the notified bodies on the basis of the TSI, - all elements relating to conditions and limits for use, - all elements relating to the instructions concerning servicing, constant or routine monitoring, adjustment and maintenance, - certificate of EC verification of the notified body as mentioned under point 7, accompanied by corresponding calculation notes and countersigned by itself, stating that the project complies with the Directive and the TSI, and mentioning, where appropriate, reservations recorded during performance of activities and not withdrawn; the certificate should also be accompanied, if relevant, by the inspection and audit reports drawn up in connection with the verification, - the infrastructure register, including all indications as specified in the TSI. 9.
The complete records accompanying the certificate of EC verification must be lodged with the adjudicating entity or its authorised representative in support of the certificate of EC verification issued by the notified body and must be attached to the EC declaration of verification drawn up by the adjudicating entity intended for the supervisory authority. 10.
Module SH2(20) (full quality assurance with design examination) EC verification of the control-command subsystem(21) 1.
This module describes the EC verification procedure whereby a notified body checks and certifies, at the request of an adjudicating entity or its authorised representative established within the Community, that a control-command subsystem: - complies with this TSI and any other applicable TSI, which demonstrates that the essential requirements of Directive 96/48/EC have been met, - complies with the other regulations deriving from the Treaty and may be put into service.
The main contractor responsible for the whole subsystem project (including in particular responsibility for subsystem integration), must operate in any case an approved quality system for design, manufacture and final product inspection and testing, as specified in point 3 and which shall be subject to surveillance as specified in point 4.
In the case, that the adjudicating entity is directly involved in the design and/or production (including assembling and installation), or that the adjudicating entity itself is responsible for the whole subsystem project (including in particular responsibility for subsystem integration), it has to operate an approved quality system for those activities, as specified in point 3 and subject to surveillance as specified in point 4. 3.
Quality system 3.1.
The manufacturer(s) involved and, if involved, the adjudicating entity must lodge an application for assessment of their quality system with a notified body of their choice.
The application must include: - all relevant information for the subsystem envisaged, - the quality system's documentation.
For manufacturers, only involved in a part of the subsystem project, the information is only requested for that specific relevant part. 3.2.
For the main contractor the quality system must ensure overall compliance of the subsystem with the requirements of Directive 96/48/EC and the TSI.
This quality system documentation shall ensure a common understanding of the quality policies and procedures such as quality programmes, plans, manuals and records.
The examinations, tests and checking shall cover all of the following stages: - overall design, - structure of subsystem, including, in particular, civil-engineering activities, constituent assembly, final adjustment, - final testing of the subsystem, - and, where specified in the TSI, the validation under full operation conditions. 3.3.
The notified body referred to in point 3.1 must assess the quality system to determine whether it satisfies the requirements referred to in point 3.2.
For applicants, which are only involved in assembling and installation, the harmonised standard shall be EN ISO 9001 - December 2000, completed if necessary to take into consideration the specificity of the subsystem for which it is implemented.
The decision must be notified to applicant.
The notification must contain the conclusions of the examination and the reasoned assessment decision. 3.4.
The notified body must evaluate the modifications proposed and decide whether the amended quality system will still satisfy the requirements referred to in point 3.2 or whether a re-assessment is required.
The notification shall contain the conclusions of the examination and the reasoned assessment decision. 4.
Surveillance of the quality system(s) under the responsibility of the notified body(ies) 4.1.
The notified body(ies) as referred to under point 3.1 must have permanent access for inspection purposes to the locations of design, building sites, production workshops, locations of assembling and installation, storage areas and, where appropriate, prefabrication or testing facilities and, more general, to all premises which it considers necessary for its task, in accordance with the applicant's specific contribution to the subsystem project. 4.3.
The notified body(ies) must periodically carry out audits to make sure that the manufacturer(s) and, if involved the adjudicating entity maintain and apply the quality system and shall provide an audit report to them.
The manufacturer(s) and, if involved the adjudicating entity must, for a period of 10 years after the last subsystem has been manufactured, keep at the disposal of the national authorities: - the documentation referred to in the second indent of the second subparagraph of point 3.1, - the updating referred to in the second subparagraph of point 3.4, - the decisions and reports from the notified body which are referred to in the final subparagraph of point 3.4, and points 4.4 and 4.5. 6.
The adjudicating entity or its authorised representative established within the Community must lodge an application for EC verification of the subsystem (through full quality assurance with design examination), including coordination of surveillance of the quality systems as under points 4.4 and 4.5, with a notified body of its choice.
It must include: - the technical design specifications, including European specifications, that have been applied, - the necessary supporting evidence for their adequacy, in particular where the European specifications referred to in the TSI have not been applied in full(23).
This supporting evidence must include the results of tests carried out by the appropriate laboratory of the manufacturer or on his behalf, - the infrastructure or rolling stock register (as appropriate), including all indications as specified in the TSI, - the technical documentation as regards the manufacturing and the assembling of the subsystem, - a list of the interoperability constituents, to be incorporated into the subsystem, - a list of all manufacturers, involved in the subsystem's design, manufacturing, assembling and installation, - the demonstration, that all stages, as mentioned under point 3.2, are covered by quality systems of the manufacturer(s) and/or of the adjudicating entity involved, and the evidence of their effectiveness, - indication of the notified body(ies), responsible for the approval and surveillance of these quality systems. 6.3.
The notified body must, concerning the other stages of the EC verification examine, if all stages of the subsystem as mentioned under point 3.2 are sufficiently and properly covered by the approval and surveillance of quality system(s).
The notified body responsible for the EC verification, if not carrying out the surveillance of the quality system(s) concerned as under point 4, must coordinate the surveillance activities of any other notified body responsible for that task, in order to be ensured that correct management of interfaces between the different quality systems in view of subsystem integration has been performed.
This coordination includes the right of the notified body responsible for the EC verification, - to receive all documentation (approval and surveillance), issued by the other notified body(ies), - to witness the surveillance audits as under point 4.4, - to initiate additional audits as under point 4.5 under its responsibility and together with the other notified body(ies). 6.6.
The EC declaration of verification and the accompanying documents must be dated and signed.
The declaration must be written in the same language as the technical file and must contain at least the information included in Annex V to Directive 96/48/EC. 6.7.
The technical file has to include at least the information indicated in Directive 96/48/EC, Article 18(3), and in particular as follows: - all necessary documents relating to the characteristics of the subsystem, - list of interoperability constituents incorporated into the subsystem, - copies of the EC declarations of conformity and, where appropriate, of the EC declarations of suitability for use, which said constituents must be provided in accordance with Article 13 of the Directive, accompanied, where appropriate, by the corresponding documents (certificates, quality system approval and surveillance documents) issued by the notified bodies on the basis of the TSI, - all elements relating to the conditions and limits for use, - all elements relating to the instructions concerning servicing, constant or routine monitoring, adjustment and maintenance, - certificate of EC verification of the notified body as mentioned under point 6.6, accompanied by corresponding calculation notes and countersigned by itself, stating that the project complies with the Directive and the TSI, and mentioning, where appropriate, reservations recorded during performance of the activities and not withdrawn; the certificate should also be accompanied by the inspection and audit reports drawn up in connection with the verification, as mentioned under point 4.4 and 4.5, - the infrastructure or rolling stock register (as appropriate), including all indications as specified in the TSI. 7.
The complete records accompanying the certificate of EC verification must be lodged with the adjudicating entity or its authorised representative in support of the certificate of EC verification issued by the notified body and must be attached to the EC declaration of verification drawn up by the adjudicating entity intended for the supervisory authority. 8.
