The matters referred to in this Directive shall be dealt with in compliance with that Convention and in particular the respect of the principle of equality of both parties in a dispute. (5) This Directive seeks to promote the application of legal aid in cross-border disputes for persons who lack sufficient resources where aid is necessary to secure effective access to justice.
The generally recognised right to access to justice is also reaffirmed by Article 47 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. (6) Neither the lack of resources of a litigant, whether acting as claimant or as defendant, nor the difficulties flowing from a dispute's cross-border dimension should be allowed to hamper effective access to justice. (7) Since the objectives of this Directive cannot be sufficiently achieved by the Member States acting alone and can therefore be better achieved at Community level, the Community may adopt measures, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity as set out in Article 5 of the Treaty.
A Council directive is the most suitable legislative instrument for this purpose. (9) This Directive applies in cross-border disputes, to civil and commercial matters. (10) All persons involved in a civil or commercial dispute within the scope of this Directive must be able to assert their rights in the courts even if their personal financial situation makes it impossible for them to bear the costs of the proceedings.
When making the assessment of whether legal aid is to be granted on this basis, the authorities in the Member State where the court is sitting may take into account information as to the fact that the applicant satisfies criteria in respect of financial eligibility in the Member State of domicile or habitual residence. (16) The possibility in the instant case of resorting to other mechanisms to ensure effective access to justice is not a form of legal aid.
This is the case both when that court is trying the case in substance and when it first has to decide whether it has jurisdiction. (25) Judicial cooperation in civil matters should be organised between Member States to encourage information for the public and professional circles and to simplify and accelerate the transmission of legal aid applications between Member States. (26) The notification and transmission mechanisms provided for by this Directive are inspired directly by those of the European Agreement on the transmission of applications for legal aid, signed in Strasbourg on 27 January 1977, hereinafter referred to as %quot%1977 Agreement%quot%.
The Member State in which a party is domiciled shall be determined in accordance with Article 59 of Council Regulation (EC) No 44/2001 of 22 December 2000 on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters(9). 3.
Legal aid is considered to be appropriate when it guarantees: (a) pre-litigation advice with a view to reaching a settlement prior to bringing legal proceedings; (b) legal assistance and representation in court, and exemption from, or assistance with, the cost of proceedings of the recipient, including the costs referred to in Article 7 and the fees to persons mandated by the court to perform acts during the proceedings.
Article 4 Non-discrimination Member States shall grant legal aid without discrimination to Union citizens and third-country nationals residing lawfully in a Member State.
CHAPTER III CONDITIONS AND EXTENT OF LEGAL AID Article 5 Conditions relating to financial resources 1.
Member States shall grant legal aid to persons referred to in Article 3(1) who are partly or totally unable to meet the costs of proceedings referred to in Article 3(2) as a result of their economic situation, in order to ensure their effective access to justice. 2.
Article 6 Conditions relating to the substance of disputes 1.
Article 7 Costs related to the cross-border nature of the dispute Legal aid granted in the Member State in which the court is sitting shall cover the following costs directly related to the cross-border nature of the dispute: (a) interpretation; (b) translation of the documents required by the court or by the competent authority and presented by the recipient which are necessary for the resolution of the case; and (c) travel costs to be borne by the applicant where the physical presence of the persons concerned with the presentation of the applicant's case is required in court by the law or by the court of that Member State and the court decides that the persons concerned cannot be heard to the satisfaction of the court by any other means.
Article 8 Costs covered by the Member State of the domicile or habitual residence The Member State in which the legal aid applicant is domiciled or habitually resident shall provide legal aid, as referred to in Article 3(2), necessary to cover: (a) costs relating to the assistance of a local lawyer or any other person entitled by the law to give legal advice, incurred in that Member State until the application for legal aid has been received, in accordance with this Directive, in the Member State where the court is sitting; (b) the translation of the application and of the necessary supporting documents when the application is submitted to the authorities in that Member State.
Article 9 Continuity of legal aid 1.
Legal aid shall continue to be available if an appeal is brought either against or by the recipient, subject to Articles 5 and 6. 4.
Article 10 Extrajudicial procedures Legal aid shall also be extended to extrajudicial procedures, under the conditions defined in this Directive, if the law requires the parties to use them, or if the parties to the dispute are ordered by the court to have recourse to them.
Article 11 Authentic instruments Legal aid shall be granted for the enforcement of authentic instruments in another Member State under the conditions defined in this Directive.
CHAPTER IV PROCEDURE Article 12 Authority granting legal aid Legal aid shall be granted or refused by the competent authority of the Member State in which the court is sitting, without prejudice to Article 8.
Article 13 Introduction and transmission of legal aid applications 1.
Legal aid applications may be submitted to either: (a) the competent authority of the Member State in which the applicant is domiciled or habitually resident (transmitting authority); or (b) the competent authority of the Member State in which the court is sitting or where the decision is to be enforced (receiving authority). 2.
The competent transmitting authority shall transmit the application to the competent receiving authority in the other Member State within 15 days of the receipt of the application duly completed in one of the languages referred to in paragraph 2, and the supporting documents, translated, where necessary, into one of those languages. 5.
Each Member State shall provide the Commission with the following information: - the names and addresses of the competent receiving or transmitting authorities referred to in paragraph 1, - the geographical areas in which they have jurisdiction, - the means by which they are available to receive applications, and - the languages that may be used for the completion of the application. 3.
Member States shall communicate to the Commission the information referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3 before 30 November 2004.
Article 15 Processing of applications 1.
Where applications are totally or partially rejected, the reasons for rejection shall be given. 3.
When the appeals against a decision refusing or cancelling legal aid by virtue of Article 6 are of an administrative nature, they shall always be ultimately subject to judicial review.
Article 16 Standard form 1.
The standard form for the transmission of legal aid applications shall be established at the latest by 30 May 2003.
The standard form for legal aid applications shall be established at the latest by 30 November 2004.
CHAPTER V FINAL PROVISIONS Article 17 Committee 1.
Article 19 More favourable provisions This Directive shall not prevent the Member States from making provision for more favourable arrangements for legal aid applicants and recipients.
Article 20 Relation with other instruments This Directive shall, as between the Member States, and in relation to matters to which it applies, take precedence over provisions contained in bilateral and multilateral agreements concluded by Member States including: (a) the European Agreement on the transmission of applications for legal aid, signed in Strasbourg on 27 January 1977, as amended by the additional Protocol to the European Agreement on the transmission of applications for legal aid, signed in Moscow in 2001; (b) the Hague Convention of 25 October 1980 on International Access to Justice.
Article 21 Transposition into national law 1.
Member States shall bring into force the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with this Directive no later than 30 November 2004 with the exception of Article 3(2)(a) where the transposition of this Directive into national law shall take place no later than 30 May 2006.
Article 22 Entry into force This Directive shall enter into force on the date of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Article 23 Addressees This Directive is addressed to the Member States in accordance with the Treaty establishing the European Community.
Done at Brussels, 27 January 2003.
Papandreou (1) OJ C 103 E, 30.4.2002, p. 368. (2) Opinion delivered on 25 September 2002 (not yet published in the Official Journal). (3) OJ C 221, 17.9.2002, p. 64. (4) OJ L 174, 27.6.2001, p. 1. (5) OJ L 281, 23.11.1995, p. 31. (6) OJ L 24, 30.1.1998, p. 1. (7) OJ L 174, 27.6.2001, p. 25. (8) OJ L 184, 17.7.1999, p. 23. (9) OJ L 12, 16.1.2001, p. 1; Regulation as amended by Commission Regulation (EC) No 1496/2002 (OJ L 225, 22.8.2002, p. 13).
