The unit for absorbed dose is the gray.
Approved medical practioner: a medical practitioner responsible for the medical surveillance of category A workers, as defined in Article 21, whose capacity to act in that respect is recognized by the competent authorities.
Becquerel (Bq): the special name of the unit of activity.
One becquerel is equivalent to one transition per second: 1 Bq = 1 s-1 Clearance levels: values, established by national competent authorities, and expressed in terms of activity concentrations and/or total activity, at or below which radioactive substances or materials containing radioactive substances arising from any practice subject to the requirement of reporting or authorization may be released from the requirements of this Directive.
It is defined by: E(ô) = ÔÓ wTHT(ô) In specifying E(ô), ô is given in the number of years over which the integration is made.
The unit for committed effective dose is the sievert.
Committed equivalent dose (HT(ô)): the integral over time (t) of the equivalent dose rate in tissue or organ T that will be received by an individual as a result of an intake.
It is given by: HT(ô) = t0%amp%int;t0 + ô ÇT(t)dtfor an intake at time t0 where - %gt%START OF GRAPHIC%gt% %gt%END OF GRAPHIC%gt% T(t) is the relevant equivalent dose rate in organ or tissue T at time t, - ô is the time over which the integration is performed.
In specifying HT(ô), ô is given in years.
The unit for committed equivalent dose is the sievert.
Effective dose (E): the sum of the weighted equivalent doses in all the tissues and organs of the body specified in Annex II from internal and external irradiation.
It is defined by the expression: E = ÔÓ wTHT = ÔÓ wT RÓ wR DT,R where - DT,R is the absorbed dose averaged over tissue or organ T, due to radiation R, - wR is the radiation weighting factor and - wT is the tissue weighting factor for tissue or organ T.
The appropriate wT and wR values are specified in Annex II.
The unit for effective dose is the sievert.
Equivalent dose (HT): the absorbed dose, in tissue or organ T weighted for the type and quality of radiation R.
It is given by: HT,R = wR DT,R where - DT,R is the absorbed dose averaged over tissue or organ T, due to radiation R, - wR is the radiation weighting factor.
When the radiation field is composed of types and energies with different values of WR, the total equivalent dose, HT, is given by: HT = RÓ wR DT,RThe appropriate wR values are specified in Annex II.
The unit for equivalent dose is the sievert.
Gray (Gy): the special name of the unit of absorbed dose.
One gray is equal to one joule per kilogram: 1 Gy = 1 J kg-1 Health detriment: an estimate of the risk of reduction in length and quality of life occurring in a population following exposure to ionizing radiations.
Practice: a human activity that can increase the exposure of individuals to radiation from an artificial source, or from a natural radiation source where natural radionuclides are processed for their radioactive, fissile or fertile properties, except in the case of an emergency exposure.
One sievert is equivalent to one joule per kilogram: 1 Sv = 1 J kg-1 Source: an apparatus, a radioactive substance or an installation capable of emitting ionizing radiation or radioactive substances.
TITLE II SCOPE Article 2 1.
This Directive shall apply to all practices which involve a risk from ionizing radiation emanating from an artificial source or from a natural radiation source in cases where natural radionuclides are or have been processed in view of their radioactive, fissile or fertile properties, namely: (a) the production, processing, handling, use, holding, storage, transport, import to and export from the Community and disposal of radioactive substances; (b) the operation of any electrical equipment emitting ionizing radiation and containing components operating at a potential difference of more than 5 kV; (c) any other practice specified by the Member State. 2.
In accordance with Title VII it shall also apply to work activities which are not covered by paragraph 1 but which involve the presence of natural radiation sources and lead to a significant increase in the exposure of workers or members of the public which cannot be disregarded from the radiation protection point of view. 3.
In accordance with Title IX it shall also apply to any intervention in cases of radiological emergencies or in cases of lasting exposure resulting from the after-effects of a radiological emergency or a past or old practice or work activity. 4.
TITLE III REPORTING AND AUTHORIZATION OF PRACTICES Article 3 Reporting 1.
Each Member State shall require the carrying out of the practices referred to in Article 2 (1) to be reported, except as provided for in this Article. 2.
No reporting need be required for practices involving the following: (a) radioactive substances where the quantities involved do not exceed in total the exemption values set out in column 2 of Table A to Annex I or, in exceptional circumstances in an individual Member State, different values authorized by the competent authorities that nevertheless satisfy the basic general criteria set out in Annex I; or (b) radioactive substances where the concentration of activity per unit mass do not exceed the exemption values set out in column 3 of Table A to Annex I or, in exceptional circumstances in an individual Member State, different values authorized by the competent authorities that nevertheless satisfy the basic general criteria set out in Annex I; or (c) apparatus containing radioactive substances exceeding the quantities or concentration values specified in subparagraphs (a) or (b), provided that: (i) it is of a type approved by the competent authorities of the Member State; and (ii) it is constructed in the form of a sealed source; and (iii) it does not cause, in normal operating conditions, a dose rate exceeding 1 µSv h-1 at a distance of 0,1 m from any accessible surface of the apparatus; and (iv) conditions for disposal have been specified by the competent authorities; or (d) the operation of any electrical apparatus to which this Directive applies, other than that referred to in subparagraph (e) provided that: (i) it is of a type approved by the competent authorities of the Member State; and (ii) it does not cause, in normal operating conditions, a dose rate exceeding 1 µSv h-1 at a distance of 0,1 m from any accessible surface of the apparatus; or (e) the operation of any cathode ray tube intended for the display of visual images, or other electrical apparatus operating at a potential difference not exceeding 30 kV, provided that this operation does not cause, in normal operating conditions, a dose rate exceeding 1 µSv h-1 at a distance of 0,1 m from any accessible surface of the apparatus; or (f) material contaminated with radioactive substances resulting from authorized releases which competent authorities have declared not to be subject to further controls.
Article 4 Authorization 1.
Prior authorization may be required for practices other than those listed in paragraph 1. 3.
Article 5 Authorization and clearance for disposal, recycling or reuse 1.
The disposal, recycling or reuse of radioactive substances or materials containing radioactive substances arising from any practice subject to the requirement of reporting or authorization is subject to prior authorization. 2.
TITLE IV JUSTIFICATION, OPTIMIZATION AND DOSE LIMITATION FOR PRACTICES CHAPTER I GENERAL PRINCIPLES Article 6 1.
In addition each Member State shall ensure that: (a) in the context of optimization all exposures shall be kept as low as reasonably achievable, economic and social factors being taken into account; (b) without prejudice to Article 12, the sum of the doses from all relevant practices shall not exceed the dose limits laid down in this Title for exposed workers, apprentices and students and members of the public. 4.
The principle set out in paragraph 3 (a) shall apply to all exposures to ionizing radiation resulting from the practices referred to in Article 2 (1).
The principle set out in paragraph 3 (b) shall not apply to any of the following exposures: (a) exposure of individuals as part of their own medical diagnosis or treatment; (b) exposure of individuals knowingly and willingly helping (other than as part of their occupation) in the support and comfort of patients undergoing medical diagnosis or treatment; (c) exposure of volunteers participating in medical and biomedical research programmes. 5.
Article 7 Dose constraints 1.
CHAPTER II LIMITATION OF DOSES Article 8 Age limit for exposed workers Subject to Article 11 (2), persons under 18 years of age may not be assigned to any work which would result in their being exposed workers.
Article 9 Dose limits for exposed workers 1.
The limit on effective dose for exposed workers shall be 100 millisieverts ('mSv`) in a consecutive five-year period, subject to a maximum effective dose of 50 mSv in any single year.
Member States may decide an annual amount. 2.
Without prejudice to paragraph 1: (a) the limit on equivalent dose for the lens of the eye shall be 150 mSv in a year; (b) the limit on equivalent dose for the skin shall be 500 mSv in a year.
This limit shall apply to the dose averaged over any area of 1 cm², regardless of the area exposed; (c) the limit on equivalent dose for the hands, forearms, feet and ankles shall be 500 mSv in a year.
Article 10 Special protection during pregnancy and breastfeeding 1.
Article 11 Dose limits for apprentices and students 1.
The dose limits for apprentices aged 18 years or over and students aged 18 years or over who, in the course of their studies, are obliged to use sources shall be the same as the dose limits for exposed workers laid down in Article 9. 2.
The limit for effective dose for apprentices aged between 16 and 18 years and for students aged between 16 and 18 years who, in the course of their studies, are obliged to use sources shall be 6 mSv per year.
Without prejudice to this dose limit: (a) the limit on equivalent dose for the lens of the eye shall be 50 mSv in a year; (b) the limit on equivalent dose for the skin shall be 150 mSv in a year.
This limit shall apply to the dose averaged over any area of 1 cm², regardless of the area exposed; (c) the limit on equivalent dose for the hands, forearms, feet and ankles shall be 150 mSv in a year. 3.
Article 12 Specially authorized exposures 1.
The following conditions shall be taken into account: (a) only category A workers as defined in Article 21 may be subject to specially authorized exposures; (b) apprentices, students, pregnant women and breastfeeding women who are likely to be bodily contaminated shall be excluded from such exposures; (c) the undertaking shall carefully justify these exposures in advance and thoroughly discuss them with the voluntary workers, their representatives, the approved medical practitioner, the approved occupational health services or the qualified expert; (d) information about the risks involved and the precautions to be taken during the operation shall be provided to the relevant workers in advance; (e) all doses relating to such exposures shall be separately recorded in the medical record referred to in Article 34 and the individual record referred to in Article 28. 2.
Article 13 Dose limits for members of the public 1.
Without prejudice to Article 14, the dose limits for members of the public shall be as laid down in paragraphs 2 and 3. 2.
The limit for effective dose shall be 1 mSv in a year.
However, in special circumstances, a higher effective dose may be authorized in a single year, provided that the average over five consecutive years does not exceed 1 mSv per yeare. 3.
Without prejudice to paragraph 2: (a) the limit on equivalent dose for the lens of the eye shall be 15 mSv in a year; (b) the limit on equivalent dose for the skin shall be 50 mSv in a year averaged over any 1 cm² area of skin, regardless of the area exposed.
Article 14 Exposure of the population as a whole Each Member State shall take reasonable steps to ensure that the contribution to the exposure of the population as a whole from practices is kept as low as reasonably achievable, economic and social factors being taken into account.
TITLE V ESTIMATION OF EFFECTIVE DOSE Article 15 For the estimation of effective and equivalent doses the values and relationships referred to in this Title shall be used.
Article 16 Without prejudice to the provisions of Article 15: (a) For external radiation, the values and relationships given in Annex II shall be used to estimate the relevant effective and equivalent doses; (b) For internal exposure from a radionuclide or from a mixture of radionuclides, the values and relationships given in Annexes II and III may be used to estimate the effective doses.
TITLE VI FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES GOVERNING OPERATIONAL PROTECTION OF EXPOSED WORKERS, APPRENTICES AND STUDENTS FOR PRACTICES Article 17 Operational protection of exposed workers shall be based in particular on the following principles: (a) prior evaluation to identify the nature and magnitude of the radiological risk to exposed workers and implementation of the optimization of radiation protection in all working conditions; (b) classification of workplaces into different areas, where appropriate, by reference to an assessment of the expected annual doses and the probability and magnitude of potential exposures; (c) classification of workers into different categories; (d) implementation of control measures and monitoring relating to the different areas and working conditions, including, where necessary, individual monitoring; (e) medical surveillance.
CHAPTER I MEASURES FOR THE RESTRICTION OF EXPOSURE Section 1 Classification and delineation of areas Article 18 Arrangements in workplaces 1.
For the purposes of radiation protection, arrangements shall be made as regards all workplaces where there is a possibility of exposure to ionizing radiation in excess of 1 mSv per year on an equivalent dose of 10 of the dose limits for the lens of the eyes, skin and extremities laid down in Article 9 (2).
The undertaking shall keep under review the working conditions in controlled and supervised areas.
The implementation of these duties will be carried out under the responsibility of the undertaking following consultations with the approved occupational health services or the qualified experts.
The requirements for a supervised area are as follows: (a) as a minimum, taking into account the nature and extent of radiological risks in the supervised area, radiological surveillance of the working environment shall be organized in accordance with the provisions of Article 24; (b) if appropriate, signs indicating type of area, nature of the sources and their inherent risks shall be displayed; (c) if appropriate, working instructions appropriate to the radiological risk associated with the sources and the operations involved shall be laid down. 2.
Section 2 Classification of exposed workers, apprentices and students Article 21 Categorization of exposed workers For the purposes of monitoring and surveillance, a distinction shall be made between two categories of exposed workers: (a) category A: those exposed workers who are liable to receive an effective dose greater than 6 mSv per year or an equivalent dose greater than %gt%NUM%gt%3 %gt%DEN%gt%10 of the dose limits for the lens of the eye, skin and extremities laid down in Article 9 (2); (b) category B: those exposed workers who are not classified as exposed category A workers.
Article 22 Information and training 1.
Member States shall require the undertaking to inform exposed workers, apprentices and students who, in the course of their studies, are obliged to use sources on: (a) the health risks involved in their work: - the general radiation protection procedures and precautions to be taken and, in particular, those involved with operational and working conditions in respect of both the practice in general and each type of work station or job to which they may be assigned, - the importance of complying with the technical, medical and administrative requirements; (b) in the case of women, the need for early declaration of pregnancy in view of the risks of exposure for the child to be born and the risk of contaminating the nursing infant in case of bodily radioactive contamination. 2.
Section 3 Assessment and implementation of arrangements for the radiological protection of exposed workers Article 23 1.
CHAPTER II ASSESSMENT OF EXPOSURE Section 1 Monitoring of the workplace Article 24 1.
The radiological surveillance of the working environment referred to in Articles 19 (1) (b) and 20 (1) (a) shall comprise, where appropriate: (a) the measurement of external dose rates, indicating the nature and quality of the radiation in question; (b) the measurement of air activity concentration and surface density of contaminating radioactive substances, indicating their nature and their physical and chemical states. 2.
The results of these measurements shall be recorded and shall be used, if necessary, for estimating individual doses, as provided for in Article 25.
Section 2 Individual monitoring Article 25 Monitoring - General 1.
Monitoring for category B workers shall be at least sufficient to demonstrate that such workers are correctly classified in category B.
Member States may require individual monitoring and if necessary individual measurements, established by an approved dosimetric service, for category B workers. 3.
Section 3 Monitoring in the case of accidental or emergency exposure Article 26 In the case of accidental exposure the relevant doses and their distribution in the body shall be assessed.
Article 27 In the case of emergency exposure, individual monitoring or assessment of the individual doses shall be carried out as appropriate to the circumstances.
Section 4 Recording and reporting of results Article 28 1.
A record containing the results of the individual monitoring, shall be made for each exposed category A worker. 2.
For the purposes of paragraph 1 the following shall be retained during the working life involving exposure to ionizing radiation of exposed workers, and afterwards until the individual has or would have attained the age of 75 years, but in any case not less than 30 years from the termination of the work involving exposure: (a) a record of the exposures measured or estimated, as the case may be, of individual doses pursuant to Articles 12, 25, 26 and 27; (b) in the case of exposures referred to in Articles 26 and 27, the reports relating to the circumstances and the action taken; (c) the results of workplace monitoring used to assess individual doses where necessary. 3.
Exposure referred to in Articles 12, 26 and 27 shall be recorded separately in the dose record referred to in paragraph 1.
The results of the individual monitoring required by Articles 25, 26 and 27 shall be: (a) made available to the competent authorities, and to the undertaking; (b) made available to the worker concerned in accordance with Article 38 (2); (c) submitted to the approved medical practitioner or approved occupational health services in order to interpret their implications for human health, as provided for in Article 31. 2.
Member States shall determine the arrangements under which the results of individual monitoring are conveyed. 3.
CHAPTER III MEDICAL SURVEILLANCE OF EXPOSED WORKERS Article 30 The medical surveillance of exposed workers shall be based on the principles that govern occupational medicine generally.
Section 1 Medical surveillance of category A workers Article 31 Medical surveillance 1.
Notwithstanding the overall responsibility of the undertaking, the medical surveillance of category A workers shall be the responsibility of approved medical practitioners or approved occupational health services.
Article 32 Medical classification The following medical classification shall be adopted with respect to fitness for work as a category A worker: (a) fit; (b) fit, subject to certain conditions; (c) unfit.
Article 33 No worker may be employed or classified for any period in a specific post as a category A worker if the medical findings deem him unfit for that specific post.
Article 34 Medical records 1.
Thereafter it shall be retained until the individual has or would have attained the age of 75 years, but in any case not less than 30 years from the termination of the work involving exposure to ionizing radiation. 2.
Section 2 Special surveillance of exposed workers Article 35 1.
Special medical surveillance shall be provided in each case where one of the dose limits laid down in Article 9 has been exceeded. 2.
Article 36 In addition to the medical surveillance of exposed workers provided for in Articles 30 and 31, provision shall be made for any further action in relation to the health protection of the exposed individual considered necessary by the approved medical practitioner or approved occupational health services such as further examinations, decontamination measures or urgent remedial treatment.
Section 3 Appeals Article 37 Each Member State shall lay down the procedure for appeal against the findings and decisions made in pursuance of Articles 32, 33 and 35.
CHAPTER IV TASKS OF MEMBER STATES IN RESPECT OF PROTECTION OF EXPOSED WORKERS Article 38 1.
Each Member State shall establish a system or systems of inspection to enforce the provisions introduced in compliance with this Directive and to initiate surveillance and intervention measures wherever necessary. 2.
Each Member State shall make the necessary arrangements to recognize, as appropriate, the capacity of: - the approved medical practitioners, - the approved occupational health services, - the approved dosimetric services, - the qualified experts.
This unit may be shared by several installations. 5.
CHAPTER V OPERATIONAL PROTECTION OF APPRENTICES AND STUDENTS Article 39 1.
The exposure conditions and operational protection of apprentices and students aged 18 years or over referred to in Article 11 (1) shall be equivalent to that of exposed workers of category A or B as appropriate. 2.
The exposure conditions and operational protection of apprentices and students aged between 16 and 18 years referred to in Article 11 (2) shall be equivalent to that of exposed workers of category B.
TITLE VII SIGNIFICANT INCREASE IN EXPOSURE DUE TO NATURAL RADIATION SOURCES Article 40 Application 1.
This Title shall apply to work activities not covered by Article 2 (1) within which the presence of natural radiation sources leads to a significant increase in the exposure of workers or of members of the public which cannot be disregarded from the radiation protection point of view. 2.
Article 41 Protection against exposure from terrestrial natural radiation sources For each work activity declared by them to be of concern, the Member States shall require the setting-up of appropriate means for monitoring exposure and as necessary: (a) the implementation of corrective measures to reduce exposure pursuant to all or part of Title IX; (b) the application of radiation protection measures pursuant to all or part of Titles III, IV, V, VI and VIII.
The undertakings shall take appropriate measures, in particular: - to assess the exposure of the crew concerned, - to take into account the assessed exposure when organizing working schedules with a view to reducing the doses of highly exposed aircrew, - to inform the workers concerned of the health risks their work involves, - to apply Article 10 to female air crew.
TITLE VIII IMPLEMENTATION OF RADIATION PROTECTION FOR THE POPULATION IN NORMAL CIRCUMSTANCES Article 43 Basic principles Each Member State shall create the conditions necessary to ensure the best possible protection of the population based on the principles set out in Article 6 and to apply the fundamental principles governing operational protection of the population.
Article 44 Conditions for authorization of practices involving a risk from ionizing radiation for the population Operational protection of the population in normal circumstances from practices subject to prior authorization means all arrangements and surveys for detecting and eliminating the factors which, in the course of any operation involving exposure to ionizing radiation, are liable to create a risk of exposure for the population which cannot be disregarded from the radiation protection point of view.
Article 45 Estimates of population doses The competent authorities shall: (a) ensure that dose estimates from practices referred to in Article 44 are made as realistic as possible for the population as a whole and for reference groups of the population in all places where such groups may occur; (b) decide on the frequency of assessments and take all necessary steps to identify the reference groups of the population, taking into account the effective pathways of transmission of the radioactive substances; (c) ensure, taking into account the radiological risks, that the estimates of the population doses include: - assessment of the doses due to external radiation, indicating, where appropriate, the quality of the radiation in question, - assessment of the intake of radionuclides, indicating the nature of the radionuclides and, where necessary, their physical and chemical states, and determination of the activity and concentrations of these radionuclides, - assessment of the doses that the reference groups of the population are liable to receive and specification of the characteristics of these groups. (d) require records to be kept relating to measurements of external exposure, estimates of intakes of radionuclides and radioactive contamination as well as the results of the assessment of the doses received by reference groups and by the population.
Article 46 Inspection As regards health protection of the population each Member State shall establish a system of inspection to enforce the provisions introduced in compliance with this Directive and to initiate surveillance in the area of radiation protection.
Article 47 Responsibilities of undertakings 1.
TITLE IX INTERVENTION Article 48 Application 1.
The implementation and extent of any intervention shall be considered in compliance with the following principles: - intervention shall be undertaken only if the reduction in detriment due to radiation is sufficient to justify the harm and costs, including social costs, of the intervention, - the form, scale and duration of the intervention shall be optimized so that the benefit of the reduction in health detriment less the detriment associated with the intervention, will be maximized, - dose limits, as laid down in Articles 9 and 13, shall not apply to intervention; however, the intervention levels established in application of Article 50 (2) constitute indications as to the situations in which intervention is appropriate; furthermore, in cases of long term exposure covered by Article 53, the dose limits set out in Article 9 should normally be appropriate for workers involved in interventions.
Article 50 Intervention preparation 1.
Each Member State shall ensure that appropriate intervention plans, taking account of the general principles of radiation protection for intervention referred to in Article 48 (2) and of the appropriate intervention levels established by the competent authorities, are drawn up at national or local level, including within installations, in order to deal with various types of radiological emergency and that such plans are tested to an appropriate extent at regular intervals. 3.
Article 51 Implementation of intervention 1.
Each Member State shall ensure that in the event of a radiological emergency on its own territory, the undertaking responsible for the practices involved makes an initial provisional assessment of the circumstances and consequences of the emergency and assists with intervention. 3.
Article 52 Emergency occupational exposure 1.
Section II Intervention in cases of lasting exposure Article 53 Where the Member States have identified a situation leading to lasting exposure resulting from the after-effects of a radiological emergency or a past practice, they shall, if necessary and to the extent of the exposure risk involved, ensure that: (a) the area concerned is demarcated; (b) arrangements for the monitoring of exposure are made; (c) any appropriate intervention is implemented, taking account of the real characteristics of the situation; (d) access to or use of land or buildings situated in the demarcated area is regulated.
Article 55 Implementation 1.
Member States shall bring into force the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with this Directive before 13 May 2000.
Article 56 Repeals The Directives of 2 February 1959, the Directive of 5 March 1962, Directives 66/45/Euratom, 76/579/Euratom, 79/343/Euratom, 80/836/Euratom and 84/467/Euratom shall be repealed with effect from 13 May 2000.
Article 57 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 13 May 1996.
AGNELLI (1) OJ No C 128, 9. 5. 1994, p. 209. (2) OJ No C 108, 19. 4. 1993, p. 48. (3) OJ No 11, 20. 2. 1959, p. 221/59. (4) OJ No 57, 6. 7. 1962, p. 1633/62. (5) OJ No 216, 26. 11. 1966, p. 3693/66. (6) OJ No L 187, 12. 7. 1976, p. 1. (7) OJ No L 83, 3. 4. 1979, p. 18. (8) OJ No L 246, 17. 9. 1980, p. 1. (9) OJ No L 265, 5. 10. 1984, p. 4. (10) OJ No L 265, 5. 10. 1984, p. 1. (11) OJ No L 371, 30. 12. 1987, p. 76. (12) OJ No L 371, 30. 12. 1987, p. 11.
Regulation as amended by Regulation (Euratom) No 2218/89 (OJ No L 211, 22. 7. 1989, p. 19). (13) OJ No L 357, 7. 12. 1989, p. 31. (14) OJ No L 349, 13. 12. 1990, p. 21.
Directive as amended by the 1994 Act of Accession. (15) OJ No L 35, 12. 2. 1992, p. 24. (16) OJ No L 148, 19. 6. 1993, p. 1.
ANNEX I CRITERIA TO BE CONSIDERED FOR THE APPLICATION OF ARTICLE 3 1.
Directional dose equivalent H' (d, Z): the dose equivalent at a point in a radiation field that would be produced by the corresponding expanded field, in the ICRU sphere at a depth, d, on a radius in a specified direction, Z.
The special name for the unit of directional dose equivalent is sievert (Sv).
Fluence, Ö: the quotient of dN by da, where dN is the number of particles which enter a sphere of cross-sectional area da: Ö = %gt%NUM%gt%dN %gt%DEN%gt%da Mean quality factor %gt%START OF GRAPHIC%gt% %gt%END OF GRAPHIC%gt% : average value of the quality factor at a point in tissue where the absorbed dose is delivered by particles with different L values.
It is calculated according to the expression: %gt%START OF GRAPHIC%gt% %gt%END OF GRAPHIC%gt% = %gt%NUM%gt%1/ %gt%DEN%quot%START OF GRAPHIC%gt% %gt%END OF GRAPHIC%gt% 0%amp%int;%amp%infin; Q(L)D(L)dL where D(L)dL is the absorbed dose at 10 mm between linear energy transfer L and L + dL; and Q(L) is the corresponding quality factor at the point of interest.
The special name for the unit of personal dose equivalent is sievert (Sv).
Quality factor (Q): a function of linear energy transfer (L) used to weight absorbed doses at a point in such a way as to take into account the quality of a radiation.
The appropriate (wR) values are given in B.
Tissue weighting factor (wT): a dimensionless factor used to weight the equivalent dose in a tissue or organ (T).
The appropriate (wT) values are specified in D.
Unrestricted linear energy transfer (L %amp%infin;): a quantity defined as: L %amp%infin; = %gt%NUM%gt%dE %gt%DEN%gt%dl where dE is the mean energy lost by a particle of energy E in traversing a distance dl in water.
Alternatively, it may be expressed as a continuous distribution in energy where each element of absorbed dose from the energy element between E and E + dE is multiplied by the value of wR from the relevant entry in the Table below. %gt%TABLE%gt% In calculations involving neutrons, difficulties may arise in applying step function values.
In these cases it may be preferable to use the continuous function described by the following mathematical relationship: wR = 5 + 17e-(ln(2E))2/6 where E is the neutron energy in MeV.
Values of tissue weighting factor, wT (1*) Values of tissue weighting factor, wT, are shown below: %gt%TABLE%gt% E.
The specified period is that given in Articles 9 and 13 in relation to the dose limits.
In general the effective dose E incurred by an individual in the group of age g will be determined according to the following formula: E = Eexternal + jÓ h(g)j,ing Jj,ing + jÓ h(g)j,inh Jj,inh Where Eexternal is the relevant effective dose from external exposure; h(g)j,ing and h(g)j,inh are the committed effective dose per unit-intake for ingested or inhaled radionuclide j (Sv/Bq) by an individual in the group of age g; Jj,ing and Jj,inh respectively are the relevant intake via ingestion or inhalation of the radionuclide j (Bq).
Tables: (A) Ingestion dose coefficients for members of the public. (B) Inhalation dose coefficients for members of the public. (C) Inhalation and ingestion dose coefficients for workers. (D) Values for f1 for the calculation of ingestion dose coefficients. (E) Lung absorption types and f1 values for chemical forms of the elements for the calculation of inhalation dose coefficients. %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt%
