The combined nomenclature is reproduced in Annex I.
The combined nomenclature, together with the rates of duty and other relevant charges, and the tariff measures included in the Taric or in other Community arrangements shall constitute the common customs tariff referred to in Article 9 of the Treaty, which shall be applied on the importation of goods into the Community. 2.
Article 6 The Commission shall be responsible for the management and publication of the Taric.
Article 8 The committee may examine any matter referred to it by its chairman, either on his own initiative or at the request of a representative of a Member State : (a) concerning the combined nomenclature; (b)concerning the Taric nomenclature and any other nomenclature which is wholly or partly based on the combined nomenclature or which adds any subdivisions to it, and which is established by specific Community provisions with a view to the application of tariff or other measures relating to trade in goods.
The provisions adopted under paragraph 1 shall not amend : - the rates of customs duties, -agricultural levies, refunds or other amounts applicable within the framework of the common agricultural policy or within that of specific schemes applicable to certain goods resulting from the processing of agricultural products, -quantitative restrictions laid down under Community provisions, -nomenclatures adopted within the framework of the common agricultural policy. 3.
They shall only be included in the CN under the conditions referred to in Article 12.
The chairman shall not vote. 2.
The Commission shall adopt the measures, which shall apply immediately.
Article 12 The Commission shall adopt each year by means of a Regulation a complete version of the combined nomenclature together with the corresponding autonomous and conventional rates of duty of the Common Customs Tariff, as it results from measures adopted by the Council or by the Commission.
The said Regulation shall be published not later than 31 October in the Official Journal of the European Communities and it shall apply from 1 January of the following year.
Article 13 The Kingdom of Spain and the Portuguese Republic are hereby authorized not to apply the Taric for the periods during which the transitional arrangements pertaining to tariff matters provided for in the Act of Accession to the Community apply.
Article 14 Where a tariff preference is granted on the basis or rules of origin derived from the nomenclature of the Customs Cooperation Council in force on 31 December 1987, those rules shall remain applicable in accordance with the Community acts in force on that date.
Article 16 Regulations (EEC) No 950/68 and (EEC) No 97/69 are hereby repealed.
Article 17 This Regulation shall enter into force on the third day followings its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Articles 1 to 5 and 12 to 16 shall not apply until 1 January 1988.
Done at Brussels, 23 July 1987.
