Only the following may be members of a grouping: (a) companies or firms within the meaning of the second paragraph of Article 58 of the Treaty and other legal bodies governed by public or private law, which have been formed in accordance with the law of a Member State and which have their registered or statutory office and central adminsitration in the Community; where, under the law of a Member State, a company, firm or other legal body is not obliged to have a registered or statutory office, it shall be sufficient for such a company, firm or other legal body to have its central administration in the Community; (b) natural persons who carry on any industrial, commercial, craft or agricultural activity or who provide professional or other services in the Community. 2.
A grouping must comprise at least: (a) two companies, firms or other legal bodies, within the meaning of paragraph 1, which have their central administrations in different Member States, or (b) two natural persons, within the meaning of paragraph 1, who carry on their principal activities in different Member States, or (c) a company, firm or other legal body within the meaning of paragraph 1 and a natural person, of which the first has its central administration in one Member State and the second carries on his principal activity in another Member State. 3.
Article 5 A contract for the formation of a grouping shall include at least: (a) the name of the grouping preceded or followed either by the words 'European Economic Interest Grouping' or by the initials 'EEIG', unless those words or initials already form part of the name; (b) the official address of the grouping; (c) the objects for which the grouping is formed; (d) the name, business name, legal form, permanent address or registered office, and the number and place of registration, if any, of each member of the grouping; (e) the duration of the grouping, except where this is indefinite.
Article 7 A contract for the formation of a grouping shall be filed at the registry referred to in Article 6.
Article 10 Any grouping establishment situated in a Member State other than that in which the official address is situated shall be registered in that State.
Article 11 Notice that a grouping has been formed or that the liquidation of a grouping has been concluded stating the number, date and place of registration and the date, place and title of publication, shall be given in the Official Journal of the European Communities after it has been published in the gazette referred to in Article 39 (1).
The official address must be fixed either: (a) where the grouping has its central administration, or (b) where one of the members of the grouping has its central administration or, in the case of a natural person, his principal activity, provided that the grouping carries on an activity there.
Article 13 The official address of a grouping may be transferred within the Community.
When the transfer of the official address results in a change in the law applicable pursuant to Article 2, a transfer proposal must be drawn up, filed and published in accordance with the conditions laid down in Articles 7 and 8.
Upon publication of a grouping's new registration the new official address may be relied on as against third parties in accordance with the conditions referred to in Article 9 (1); however, as long as the termination of the grouping's registration at the registry for the old official address has not been published, third parties may continue to rely on the old official address unless the grouping proves that such third parties were aware of the new official address. 4.
A decision establishing or declaring the nullity of a grouping may be relied on as against third parties in accordance with the conditions laid down in Article 9 (1).
Article 18 Each member shall be entitled to obtain information from the manager or managers concerning the grouping's business and to inspect the grouping's books and business records.
A Member State may, in the case of groupings registered at their registries pursuant to Article 6, provide that legal persons may be managers on condition that such legal persons designate one or more natural persons, whose particulars shall be the subject of the filing provisions of Article 7 (d) to represent them.
Each of the managers shall bind the grouping as regards third parties when he acts on behalf of the grouping, even where his acts do not fall within the objects of the grouping, unless the grouping proves that the third party knew or could not, under the circumstances, have been unaware that the act fell outside the objects of the grouping; publication of the particulars referred to in Article 5 (c) shall not of itself be proof thereof.
Such a clause may be relied on as against third parties in accordance with the conditions referred to in Article 9 (1) only if it is published in accordance with Article 8.
Article 23 No grouping may invite investment by the public.
Article 25 Letters, order forms and similar documents must indicate legibly: (a) the name of the grouping preceded or followed either by the words 'European Economic Interest Grouping' or by the initials 'EEIG', unless those words or initials already occur in the name; (b) the location of the registry referred to in Article 6, in which the grouping is registered, together with the number of the grouping's entry at the registry; (c) the grouping's official address; (d) where applicable, that the managers must act jointly; (e) where applicable, that the grouping is in liquidation, pursuant to Articles 15, 31, 32 or 36.
Such a clause may be relied on as against third parties, under the conditions referred to in Article 9 (1), only if it is published in accordance with Article 8.
Article 29 As soon as a member ceases to belong to a grouping, the manager or managers must inform the other members of that fact; they must also take the steps required as listed in Articles 7 and 8.
After a grouping has been wound up by decision of its members, the manager or managers must take the steps required as listed in Articles 7 and 8.
Article 33 When a member ceases to belong to a grouping for any reason other than the assignment of his rights in accordance with the conditions laid down in Article 22 (1), the value of his rights and obligations shall be determined taking into account the assets and liabilities of the grouping as they stand when he ceases to belong to it.
The liquidator or liquidators shall take the steps required as listed in Articles 7 and 8.
Article 36 Groupings shall be subject to national laws governing insolvency and cessation of payments.
Article 38 Where a grouping carries on any activity in a Member State in contravention of that State's public interest, a competent authority of that State may prohibit that activity.
The Member States shall ensure that the information to be published in the Official Journal of the European Communities pursuant to Article 11 is forwarded to the Office for Official Publications of the European Communities within one month of its publication in the official gazette referred to in paragraph 1. 3.
Article 40 The profits or losses resulting from the activities of a grouping shall be taxable only in the hands of its members.
Article 43 This Regulation shall enter into force on the third day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
For the Council The President J.
