Article 2 The programmes of specific measures implemented in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 2201/96 and this Regulation shall be financed by the Community up to 60 % of actual expenditure incurred under the programme for measures as referred to in Article 10 (1) (a), (b) and (d) of Regulation (EC) No 2201/96, and 40 % for the measures set out in points (c) and (e) of that Article.
Total financing for the entire period of application of the programme may not exceed 25 % of the value of marketed production.
This percentage shall be increased to 35 % for a representative association which accounts for more than 50 % of Community production.
Advances may not exceed 30 % of the estimated amount of the Community's financial contribution.
Advances shall be paid subject to the lodging of a security equivalent to 110 % of the advance. 2.
Securities shall be lodged in accordance with the conditions laid down in Commission Regulation (EEC) No 2220/85 (3).
Such payments may not exceed 85 % of the estimated amount of the Community's financial contribution to the programme taking account of the ceilings referred to in Article 2.
The competent national authority shall make the payments referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 within 30 days from the receipt of an application referred to in the second subparagraph of paragraph 1 or the application for payment of the balance referred to in paragraph 2.
The sample must represent at least 10 % of representative associations and 30 % of total Community assistance.
The recipient shall be required to reimburse double the amount unduly paid out, plus interest calculated on the basis of the period elapsing between payment and reimbursement by the recipient, where checks carried out in accordance with Article 8 show that: (a) actual expenditure is less than the amount indicated in the application for payment of the balance, (b) the contribution of the representative association has not been paid, or (c) the programme of specific measures has been implemented in a manner which does not comply with the conditions for its approval by the Member State concerned, without prejudice to Article 5.
Where the difference between the Community financial contribution actually paid and that due is greater than 20 % of the contribution due, the recipient shall be required to repay all of the contribution paid, plus the interest referred to in paragraph 1. 3.
Paragraphs 1 to 4 shall apply without prejudice to other penalties to be adopted in accordance with Article 25 of Regulation (EC) No 2201/96.
CHAPTER II Flat-rate aid Article 10 The flat-rate aid referred to in Article 10 (3) of Regulation (EC) No 2201/96 shall be granted during 1997, 1998 and 1999 for all areas sown with white asparagus for processing into products falling within CN code ex 2005 60 00, provided that: (a) they were planted not later than 1996 or, in case of new plantations, they replace plantations which have existed on the same holding during the past three years; (b) they have a yield of a least 2 500 kg/ha, except those planted for less than a year; (c) they are the subject of a delivery contract with a processor relating to at least the quantity referred to at point (d) and covering the three-year period referred to above and requiring an undertaking from the processor to submit to the checks needed for implementation of the flat-rate aid; (d) at least 90 % of the quantity of white asparagus produced is delivered to the processor and processed.
The producer shall lodge a single application for flat-rate aid covering the entire three-year period with the competent authority designated by the Member State for the territory in which the areas are located, not later than 31 July 1997.
Article 12 Member States shall communicate to the Commission the area for which flat-rate aid has been applied for not later than 15 September 1997.
Payments for 1998 and 1999 shall be made before 30 September.
Article 13 Member States shall carry out checks on a significant sample of the aid applications or, where applicable, crop declarations presented, determined with due regard to the average area of holdings, the areas under white asparagus for processing, and the geographical distribution of such areas.
The sample must represent at least 10 % of aid applications or, where applicable, crop declarations, and 30 % of total flat-rate aid.
These percentages shall be increased to 15 % and 40 % respectively from the current year if a significant number of irregularities is found.
The recipient shall be required to reimburse double the amount overpaid plus interest calculated on the basis of the period elapsing between payment and reimbursement by the recipient, where checks carried out in accordance with Article 13 show that the application or, where applicable, the crop declaration and the accompanying supporting documents are fraudulent.
The producer and processor involved shall be disqualified from receipt of Community financing under Article 10 of Regulation (EC) No 2201/96.
Where the difference between the flat-rate aid actually paid and the aid due is greater than 20 % of the aid due, the recipient shall be required to repay all of the aid paid, plus the interest referred to in paragraph 1. 3.
Paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 shall apply without prejudice to other penalties to be adopted in accordance with Article 25 of Regulation (EC) No 2201/96.
CHAPTER III Final provisions Article 15 This Regulation shall enter into force on the seventh day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Done at Brussels, 29 May 1997.
