Member States shall prescribe that the feed materials listed in Annex II, part (A) may be put into circulation only if their content of the undesirable substance or product mentioned in column 1 of the said Annex does not exceed the maximum level laid down in column 3 of that Annex. 2.
Member States shall prescribe that paragraph 2(a) and (b) shall also apply to the feed materials and undesirable substances or products listed in Annex II, part (B) the maximum level of which is not restricted in Annex II, part (A), if the level of the undesirable substance or product present in the feed materials exceeds that laid down in column 3 of Annex I for the corresponding feed materials.
Article 7 Member States shall prescribe that a consignment of a feed material detailed in part A of Annex II with a content of an undesirable substance or product higher than the maximum level fixed in column 3 of the abovementioned Annex must not be mixed with other consignments of feed materials or with consignments of feedingstuffs.
Article 8 Member States shall prescribe that in so far as there are no special provisions for complementary feedingstuffs, these may not, allowing for the dilutions prescribed for their use, contain levels of the substances and products listed in Annex I in excess of those fixed for complete feedingstuffs.
Article 10 In accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 13 and in the light of developments in scientific and technical knowledge: (a) the amendments to be made to the Annexes shall be adopted; (b) a consolidated version of the Annexes shall be drawn up periodically incorporating the successive amendments made pursuant to (a); (c) criteria for the acceptability of feed materials which have undergone certain decontamination processes may be defined.
Article 11 Member States shall ensure that feedingstuffs and feed materials which conform to this Directive are not subject to any other restrictions on their circulation as regards the presence of undesirable substances and products.
The opinion shall be delivered by the majority laid down in Article 148(2) of the Treaty in the case of decisions which the Council is required to adopt on a proposal from the Commission.
The Council shall adopt the measures by a qualified majority.
The opinion shall be delivered by the majority laid down in Article 148(2) of the Treaty in the case of decisions which the Council is required to adopt on a proposal from the Commission.
The Council shall adopt the measures by a qualified majority.
Paragraph 1 does not affect the right of Member States to allow the re-exportation to the exporting third country of consignments of feedingstuffs which do not fulfil the requirements of this Directives.
Article 17 This Directive shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Article 18 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Luxembourg, 22 April 1999.
ANNEX I (Article 3(2), Article 4, Article 5(2) and (3), Article 8, Article 12(3)) %gt%TABLE%gt% ANNEX II PART A (Article 3(2), Article 5, Article 7) %gt%TABLE%gt% PART B (Article 5(3)) %gt%TABLE%gt% ANNEX III PART A Repealed Directives (referred to by Article 16) %gt%TABLE%gt% PART B Deadlines for transposition into national law (referred to by Article 16) %gt%TABLE%gt% ANNEX IV CORRELATION TABLE %gt%TABLE%gt%
