The performance of contracts financed from the resources of the Fund shall, except as otherwise provided in Article 212 (b) of Decision 91/482/EEC, be governed by: - the general conditions for works contracts financed by the EDF in the OCT appearing in Annex II, - the general conditions for supply contracts financed by the EDF in the OCT, appearing in Annex III, - the general conditions for services contracts financed by the EDF in the OCT, appearing in Annex IV.
Disputes relating to a contract financed from the resources of the Fund which, pursuant to the general conditions and the special conditions applicable to the contract, are to be settled by conciliation or arbitration, shall be settled in accordance with the procedural rules on conciliation and arbitration of contracts financed by the EDF in the OCT, appearing in Annex V.
Article 2 This Decision shall apply to all contracts financed by the EDF in the OCT, and concluded as from 1 June 1991.
Done at Brussels, 16 December 1991.
VAN DEN BROEK (1) OJ N° L 263, 19. 9. 1991, p. 1.
ANNEX I GENERAL REGULATIONS FOR WORKS, SUPPLY AND SERVICE CONTRACTS FINANCED BY THE EUROPEAN DEVELOPMENT FUND IN THE OCT CONTENTS INTRODUCTION Article 1 - Conditions .......... 5 Article 2 - National law .......... 5 DEFINITIONS AND PRINCIPLES Article 3 - Definitions .......... 5 Article 4 - Eligibility .......... 7 Article 5 - Equality of participation .......... 8 Article 6 - Derogation .......... 8 Article 7 - Competition .......... 8 Article 8 - Design competition .......... 10 Article 9 - Preference .......... 10 Article 10 - Types of contract .......... 10 Article 11 - Technical specifications and standards .......... 11 Article 12 - Notices and written communications .......... 11 INVITATION TO TENDER Article 13 - Notice of invitation to tender .......... 11 Article 14 - Pre-selection of tenderers .......... 12 Article 15 - Direct agreement contracts .......... 12 TENDER DOSSIER Article 16 - Contents of tender dossier .......... 13 Article 17 - Clarification of tender information .......... 13 Article 18 - Amendments to tender dossier .......... 14 INSTRUCTIONS TO TENDERERS Article 19 - Language .......... 14 Article 20 - Contents of the tender .......... 14 Article 21 - Lots .......... 14 Article 22 - Cooperation with third parties .......... 15 Article 23 - Independence of tenderers .......... 15 Article 24 - Pricing of tenders .......... 15 Article 25 - Period of validity .......... 16 Article 26 - Tender guarantee .......... 16 Article 27 - Variant solutions .......... 17 Article 28 - Pre-tender visit .......... 17 Article 29 - Signing of tenders .......... 17 SUBMISSION OF TENDERS Article 30 - Time limit .......... 18 Article 31 - Sealing and marking of envelopes .......... 18 Article 32 - Withdrawals and amendments .......... 18 EXAMINATION OF TENDERS Article 33 - Opening of tenders .......... 19 Article 34 - Evaluation of tenders .......... 19 Article 35 - Annulment of the tender procedure .......... 20 AWARD OF CONTRACT Article 36 - Selection .......... 21 Article 37 - Notification of award .......... 21 Article 38 - Preparation of contract document .......... 22 Article 39 - Signing of the contract .......... 22 Article 40 - Performance guarantee .......... 22 GENERAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS Article 41 - General and final provisions .......... 22 INTRODUCTION Article 1 Conditions 1.1.
The award of works, supply and service contracts financed from the resources of the European Development Fund (EDF) shall be governed by these general regulations. 1.2.
Article 2 National law In all matters which are not covered by these general regulations, the national law of the State of the contracting authority shall apply.
DEFINITIONS AND PRINCIPLES Article 3 Definitions 3.1.
Article 4 Eligibility 4.1.
Save where a derogation is granted in accordance with the Council Decision and/or Article 6: (a) participation in the invitations to tender and in award of contracts financed by the EDF shall be open on equal terms to: (i) natural persons, companies or firms or public or semi-public agencies of the OCT, ACP States and the EEC; i(ii) cooperative societies and other legal persons governed by public or private law, save for those which are non-profit-making, of the EEC, the OCT and/or of the ACP States; (iii) joint ventures or groupings of OCT, ACP and/or EEC companies or firms; (b) supplies must originate in the EEC, the OCT and/or the ACP States. 4.2.
Natural persons, companies or firms shall not be eligible for the award of contracts where: (a) they are bankrupt; (b) payments to them have been suspended in accordance with the judgment of a court other than a judgment declaring bankruptcy and resulting, in accordance with their national laws, in the total or partial loss of the right to administer and dispose of their property; (c) legal proceedings have been instituted against them involving an order suspending payments and which may result, in accordance with their national laws, in a declaration of bankruptcy or in any other situation entailing the total or partial loss of the right to administer and dispose of their property; (d) they have been convicted, by a final judgment, of any crime or offence concerning their professional conduct; (e) they are guilty of serious misrepresentation with regard to information required for participation in an invitation to tender; (f) they are in breach of contract on another contract with the contracting authority. 4.3.
Article 6 Derogation 6.1.
In order to ensure the optium cost-effectiveness of the system, natural or legal persons from non-ACP developing countries may be authorized to participate in contracts financed by the EEC at the request of the OCT concerned. 6.2.
Participation by third countries, which are not parties to the Convention, in contracts financed by the EEC may also be authorized: (a) where the EEC participates in the financing of regional or inter-regional schemes involving such countries; (b) in the case of co-financed projects and programmes; (c) in case of emergency assistance. 6.4.
In exceptional cases and in agreement with the Commission, consultancy firms or experts which are nationals of third countries referred to in Article 6.3 may participate in service contracts.
Save as otherwise provided in Article 7, works and supply contracts financed from the EDF shall be concluded following an open invitation to tender and service contracts shall be concluded following a restricted invitation to tender. 7.2.
The OCT may, in accordance with the provisions in Article 7.3, 7.4 and 7.7, and in agreement with the Commission: (a) place contracts after restricted invitations to tender following, where applicable, a call for prequalification; (b) conclude contracts by direct agreement; (c) perform contracts through public or semi-public departments of the OCT. 7.3.
Direct labour 7.7.
Emergency assistance contracts 7.9.
Accelerated procedure 7.10.
The accelerated procedure for issuing invitations to tender shall involve shorter time limits for tendering and the call for tender is confined to the OCT concerned and the neighbouring OCT or ACP States, in accordance with the rules in force in the OCT concerned.
By way of derogation, the OCT authorizing officer, in agreement with the delegate, may procure supplies and/or services of a limited amount where they are available in the OCT concerned or neighbouring OCT or ACP States. 7.12.
Article 8 Design competition 8.1.
Where the contracting authority, for technical, aesthetic or financial reasons, considers it appropriate, an invitation to tender may be issued for participation in a design competition.
However, the contracting authority may, with the agreement of the competitors, use the proposals for further development. 8.2.
Article 9 Preference 9.1.
Article 10 Types of contract 10.1.
Contracts may be one of the following: (a) lump sum contracts, where an all-in price shall cover the whole of the works, supplies and services which are the subject of the contract; (b) unit-price contracts, where the works, supplies and services shall be broken down on the basis of the bill of quantities and the proposed unit prices shall be indicated; (c) cost-plus contracts, where the works, supplies and services shall be priced on the basis of actual costs with an addition for overheads and profit; (d) composite contracts, where the prices shall be fixed on the basis of at least two of the methods laid down in Article 10.1; (e) provisional price contracts, where in the exceptional cases provided in Article 10.2, contracts are awarded without prices being predetermined after consultation and agreement between contracting authority and the tenderer, and paid for in the manner agreed. 10.2.
Article 11 Technical specifications and standards 11.1.
Article 12 Notices and written communications 12.1.
INVITATION TO TENDER Article 13 Notice of invitation to tender 13.1.
The contracting authority shall submit before issuing invitations to tender the invitation to tender dossier to the delegate. 13.3.
The delegate shall: (a) for accelerated procedures, direct agreement contracts, and contracts for emergency assistance, approve, before the contracting authority issues them, the invitation to tender dossier within 30 days of its submission to him by the contracting authority; (b) for all cases other than those mentioned in Article 13.3 (a) above, transmit the invitation to tender dossier to the Commission for approval within 30 days of its submission to him by the contracting authority. 13.4.
In a restricted tendering procedure with pre-selection, the notice shall state in particular: (a) the method of tendering and the information referred to in Article 13.4 (a), (b), (c), (d) and (g); (b) the terms on which the tender dossier may be acquired; (c) where appropriate, the final date for the issue of invitations to tender by the contracting authority; (d) the information to be given in the request to participate, in the form of statements and documents concerning the applicant's standing and ability which the contracting authority requires in accordance with Article 4 together with the economic and technical conditions each applicant must fulfil if he wishes to be considered for selection.
In a restricted tender with pre-selection, a short-list of prospective tenderers shall be drawn up in accordance with Article 14.2 following, where applicable, a call for pre-qualification after publication of the notice referred to in Article 13.1. 14.2.
The short-list shall be drawn up, inter alia, in accordance with the provisions of Article 7.5 and the necessary qualifications to perform the intended project, in particular the provisions of Article 4. 14.3.
The prospective tenderers selected shall receive an invitation to tender stating in particular the following: (a) the information given in Article 13.4 (e), (f), (g), (h), (i), and (j); (b) a reference to the notice mentioned in Article 13.5; (c) any amendments, as referred to in Article 18.
TENDER DOSSIER Article 16 Contents of tender dossier 16.1.
In addition to the invitation to tender, the tender dossier may contain any or all of the following: (a) the instructions to tenderers; (b) the general conditions applicable to the particular category of contract; (c) the special conditions for the specific contract; (d) the technical specifications and/or terms of reference; (e) the form for the breakdown of the overall price in the case of lump sum contracts, or the form for the unit price schedules and/or the bill of quantities in the case of unit price contracts; (f) the schedule of requirements or additional information; (g) the drawings; (h) the tender form; (i) the tender guarantee form; (j) the contract form; (k) the performance guarantee form; and (l) a description of the tender evaluation system giving the criteria for evaluation and the weight attached to the individual criteria. 16.2.
This note will be prepared by the delegate in consultation with the OCT concerned and subject to the approval by the latter.
The terms of reference for service contracts shall contain in particular: (a) a description, which shall be as detailed as possible, of the object of the contract; (b) factual details, such as data in the possession of the contracting authority, restrictions that are binding upon the contracting authority in observance of certain technical or other rules, and obligations laid down by the contracting authority; (c) depending on the nature of the contract, preliminary draft studies or implementation schemes, and a draft contract, if available; (d) general documentation comprising, in particular, the laws and regulations relating to the technical field covered by the contract, or any other reference enabling access to such laws and regulations. 16.4.
The tenderer shall carefuly examine all instructions, conditions, forms, terms, specifications and drawings in the tender dossier.
Article 17 Clarification of tender information Where, in response to a tender's queries or otherwise, information regarding the contract to be performed or other information which may affect the pricing of the tender is supplied to a tenderer, such information shall also be issued in writing by the contracting authority to the other tenderers, in so far as these are known, provided that information of a commercial nature relating to the acceptability of variant solutions shall not be issued to the other tenderers.
Article 18 Amendments to tender dossier Any change made to the tender dossier during the tender period by the contracting authority shall be communicated forthwith in writing to all prospective tenderers who have been provided with the tender documents, together with notice of any extension of the tender period which the contracting authority may consider necessary to enable tenderers to take account of such a change.
INSTRUCTIONS TO TENDERERS Article 19 Language The tender, contract documents and all correspondence and documents relating to them shall be in the language stated in the instructions to tenderers.
Article 20 Contents of tender 20.1.
The tender to be prepared and submitted by the tenderer shall, in accordance with the requirements stated in the tender dossier, comprise: (a) the completed tender form and appendix thereto; (b) the tender guarantee; (c) the breakdown of the overall price in the case of lump sum contracts, or the unit price schedule and/or the bill of quantities in the case of unit price contracts; (d) schedules of supplementary information; (e) the documents providing proof of the standing and ability of the tenderer referred to in Article 4, save in the event of a restricted tendering procedure with pre-selection; (f) the authorized variant solutions, and any other elements required to be submitted in accordance with the instructions to tenderers embodied in the tender dossier; (g) all information necessary to assess the tenders; (h) if the instructions to tenderers specify that an after-sales service is required, a note indicating the means with which the tenderer shall meet the obligations to provide such a service; (i) where appropriate, additional guarantees proposed by the tenderer concerning, inter alia, the period of performance and the scope of work; (j) all information on any subcontracting envisaged; (k) the tender price and the method and the currencies of payment. 20.2.
After-sales service shall be required for supply contracts unless the nature of the supplies do not justify such service.
The procedure for submitting a tender shall be as follows: (a) a tenderer may submit a tender for each lot; (b) unless the instructions to tenderers provide otherwise, a tenderer may include in his tender the overall rebate he would grant in the event of amalgamation of some or all of the lots for which he has submitted individual tenders; (c) unless the instructions to tenderers state that lots apportioned to the same tenderer shall form a single contract, each lot shall form a separate contract; (d) where lots are to be apportioned to different tenderers, the invitation to tender dossier or the instructions to tenderers may provide that the tenderer for a particular lot shall ensure the coordination of the execution of all lots.
Article 22 Cooperation with third parties 22.1.
In the calculation of remuneration or tender prices, account shall be taken of any cost borne by the tenderer as a result of the provision of on-the-job training for trainees.
Article 23 Independence of tenderers 23.1.
Article 24 Pricing of tenders 24.1.
Where the instructions to tenderers so require, the following shall also be written in figures and in words: (a) the breakdown of the overall price in the case of lump sum contracts; (b) the unit prices for each item in the bill of quantities and/or the unit price schedule in the case of unit price contracts; (c) in the case of a composite contract, the breakdown of the overall price part as well as the bill of quantities and/or the price schedule for the unit price part. 24.3.
Prices must correspond to the relative value of each item in relation to the total amount of the tender.
Tenders shall be expressed in the national currency of the State of the contracting authority. 24.5.
The price offered by the tenderer shall take into account the tax arrangements applicable as set out in the Convention.
Article 25 Period of validity 25.1.
Any tender valid for a shorter period may be rejected by the contracting authority.
The provisions of Article 26 regarding discharge and forfeiture of the tender guarantee shall continue to apply during the extended period of tender validity. 25.3.
The successful tenderer shall remain bound by his tender for a further period of 60 days following the receipt of the communication notifying him of his selection.
Article 26 Tender guarantee 26.1.
The tender dossier shall specify the amount of this guarantee which shall in no case exceed 2 % of the amount of the tender. 26.2.
Whatever form it takes, the guarantee shall be independent and payable on first demand and valid for at least 60 days beyond the tender validity period. 26.3.
Article 27 Variant solutions 27.1.
Unless otherwise stated in the instructions to tenderers, tenderers may submit a tender based on a variant solution.
The instructions to tenderers must specify any limitations, design criteria and other requirements applicable to a variant solution.
Article 28 Pre-tender visit 28.1.
Article 29 Signing of tenders 29.1.
The tender shall be signed by the tenderer or by his duly authorized agent as required by the instructions to tenderers.
A signature to a deed must be certified in accordance with the national law of the State of the principal. 29.3.
If a tenderer is a joint venture or consortium of two or more persons, the tender must be single with the object of securing a single contract, each person must sign the tender, and all such persons shall be jointly and severally bound by the tender and any resulting contract according to the law of the State of the contracting authority, and shall designate one of such persons to act as leader with authority to bind the joint venture or consortium.
The composition or constitution of the joint venture or consortium shall not be altered without the prior consent in writing of the contracting authority. 29.4.
Except in the case of lots pursuant to Article 21 and variant solutions pursuant to Article 27, only one tender may be submitted by each tenderer.
The contracting authority may, at its discretion, extend the deadline referred to in Article 30.1 for the submission of tenders by amending the tender dossier in accordance with Article 18, in which case all previous rights and obligations of the contracting authority and tenderers, subject to the previous deadline, will thereafter be subject to the deadline as extended.
Article 31 Sealing and marking of envelopes 31.1.
The tender, the annexes thereto as stipulated in the instructions to tenderers and the supporting documents referred to in Article 4 shall be placed in a sealed non-identifiable envelope, bearing only: (a) the address designated for submission of tenders in the notice of invitation to tender or in the invitation to tender; (b) the reference to the notice of invitation to tender in reply to which the tender is being submitted; (c) where appropriate, the numbers of the lots tendered for; and (d) the words 'not to be opened before the tender opening session` written in the language of the tender dossier. 31.2.
Article 32 Withdrawals and amendments 32.1.
Any tenderer may modify or withdraw his tender before the deadline referred to in Article 30.3, provided that written notice of such modification or withdrawal is received by the contracting authority prior to that deadline. 32.2.
N° tender may be modified subsequent to the deadline referred to in Article 30.3, except in accordance with Article 34.1. 32.4.
The contracting authority shall prepare, for its own records, minutes of the tender opening, including the information disclosed to those present in accordance with Article 33.2. 33.7.
Any attempt by a tenderer to influence the contracting authority in the process of examination, clarification, evaluation and comparison of tenders, and in decisions concerning the award of the contract, shall result in the rejection of his tender. 33.9.
Article 34 Evaluation of tenders 34.1.
The request for clarification and the response shall be in writing and communicated by any of the means referred to in Article 12, but no change in the price or substance of the tender shall be sought, offered or permitted except as required to confirm the correction of arithmetic errors discovered by the contracting authority during the evaluation of the tenders pursuant to Article 34.7. 34.2.
For the purpose of Article 34, a responsive tender is one which conforms to all the terms, conditions and specifications of the tender dossier without material deviation or reservation.
Tenders shall be compared in the national currency. 34.7.
Errors shall be corrected by the contracting authority as follows: (a) where there is a discrepancy between amounts in figures and also in words, the amount in words shall prevail; and (b) except for lump-sum contracts, where there is a discrepancy between the unit price and the total amount derived from the multiplication of the unit price and quantity, the unit price as quoted shall prevail, unless in the opinion of the contracting authority there is an obvious error in the unit price, in which event the total amount as quoted shall prevail and the unit price shall be corrected by the contracting authority. 34.8.
If the tenderer does not accept the corrected amount of the tender, his tender shall be rejected. 34.9.
Further details of the procedures to be used in giving effect to the margin of preference provisions of Article 9 shall be as laid down by the contracting authority in the tender dossier. 34.10.
Article 35 Annulment of the tender procedure 35.1.
The contracting authority may, prior to awarding the contract, without thereby incurring any liability to the tenderers, and notwithstanding the stage reached in the procedures leading to the conclusion of the contract: (a) either decide to annul the tender procedure in accordance with Article 35.2, or order that the procedure be recommenced, if necessary, using another method; or (b) where the project is divided into lots, award only certain of the lots and possibly decide that the others are to be the subject of another tender or other tenders, if necessary, using another method. 35.2.
AWARD OF CONTRACT Article 36 Selection 36.1.
The delegate shall: (a) approve within 30 days the contracting authority's proposal for the placing of the contract for all: (i) direct agreement contracts; i(ii) service contracts; (iii) contracts relating to emergency assistance; and (iv) contracts by accelerated procedures, for works contracts worth less than ECU 5 million and supply contracts worth less than ECU 1 million; (b) approve within 30 days the contracting authority's proposal for the placing of the contract not covered by Article 36.4 (a) wherever the following conditions are fulfilled: the tender selected is the lowest of those conforming to the requirements of the tender dossier, meets the selection criteria stated therein and does not exceed the sum earmarked for the contract; (c) where the conditions set out in Article 36.4 (b) are not fulfilled, forward the proposal for the placing of the contract to the Commission which shall decide thereon within 60 days of the receipt by the delegate.
Article 37 Notification of award 37.1.
Unless otherwise provided in the tender dossier, in the case of works and supply contracts, once the successful tenderer has furnished a performance guarantee in accordance with the provisions of Article 40, the contracting authority shall promptly notify the other tenderers that their tenders have been unsuccessful, and return their tender guarantees. 37.3.
Article 38 Preparation of contract document 38.1.
Article 39 Signing of the contract 39.1.
Unless otherwise provided in the tender dossier, within 30 days of receipt of the contract document, the successful tenderer shall sign the contract.
The contracting authority shall not, unless otherwise provided by the tender dossier, sign the contract until the performance guarantee has been established in accordance with Article 40. 39.3.
Article 40 Performance guarantee 40.1.
GENERAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS Article 41 General and final provisions 41.1.
The law of the contract shall be the law of the State of the contracting authority unless otherwise stated in the special conditions. 2.2.
In all matters which are not covered by these general conditions, the law of the contract shall apply. 2.3.
Article 3 Order of precedence of contract documents Unless otherwise stipulated in the contract, the order of precedence of the contract documents shall be as stated in the special conditions.
Article 4 Notices and written communications 4.1.
In any event, the sender shall take all the necessary measures to ensure receipt of his communication. 4.3.
The supervisor shall carry out the duties specified in the contract.
Except as expressly stated in the contract, the supervisor shall not have authority to relieve the contractor of any of his obligations under the contractor. 5.2.
Any such delegation, revocation or replacement shall be in writing and shall not take effect until a copy thereof has been delivered to the contractor. 5.3.
Any communication given by the supervisor's representative to the contractor in accordance with the terms of such delegation shall have the same effect as though it had been given by the supervisor, provided that: (a) any failure on the part of the supervisor's representative to disapprove any work, materials or plant shall not prejudice the authority of the supervisor to disapprove such work, materials or plant and to give the instructions necessary for the rectification thereof; (b) the supervisor shall be at liberty to reverse or vary the contents of such communication. 5.4.
Article 6 Assignment 6.1.
An assignment shall be valid only if it is a written agreement by which the contractor transfers his contract or part thereof to a third party. 6.2.
The contractor shall not, without the prior written consent of the contracting authority, assign the contract or any part thereof, or any benefit or interest thereunder, except in the following cases: (a) a charge, in favour of the contractor's bankers, of any monies due or to become due under the contract; or (b) assignment to the contractor's insurers of the contractor's right to obtain relief against any other person liable in cases where the insurers have discharged the contractor's loss or liability. 6.3.
For the purpose of Article 6.2 the approval of an assignment by the contracting authority shall not relieve the contractor of his obligations for the part of the contract already performed or the part not assigned. 6.4.
If the contractor has assigned his contract without authorization, the contracting authority may, without giving formal notice thereof, apply as of right the sanctions for breach of contract provided for in Articles 63 and 64. 6.5.
Assignees must satisfy the eligibility criteria applicable for the award of the contract.
Article 7 Subcontracting 7.1.
The contracting authority shall with due regard to the provisions of Article 4.3; within 30 days of receipt of the notification, notify the contractor of his decision, stating reasons should he withhold such authorization. 7.3.
Subcontractors must satisfy the eligibility criteria appliable for the award of the contract. 7.5.
If the contractor enters into a subcontract without approval, the contracting authority may apply, as of right without giving formal notice thereof, the sanctions for breach of contract provided for in Articles 63 and 64.
OBLIGATIONS OF THE CONTRACTING AUTHORITY Article 8 Supply of documents 8.1.
Within 30 days of the establishment of the performance guarantee provided for in Article 15, the supervisor shall provide to the contractor, free of charge, a copy of the drawings prepared for the performance of the contract as well as two copies of the specifications and other contract documents.
Article 9 Access to site 9.1.
The contractor shall afford all reasonable opportunities to other persons concerned for carrying out their work as set out in the special conditions or as required by administrative orders. 9.2.
Article 10 Assistance with local regulations 10.1.
Article 11 Delayed payments to the contractor's staff Where there is a delay in the payment to the contractor's employees of wages and salaries owing and of the allowances and contributions laid down by the law of the State in which the works are located, the contracting authority may give notice to the contractor that within 15 days of the notice he intends to pay such wages, salaries, allowances and contributions direct.
OBLIGATIONS OF THE CONTRACTOR Article 12 General obligations 12.1.
The contractor shall take full responsibility for the adequecy, stability and safety of all operations and methods of construction under the contract. 12.3.
The composition or the constitution of the joint venture or consortium shall not be altered without the prior consent of the contracting authority.
Article 13 Superintendence of the works 13.1.
The contractor shall immediately replace all employees indicated by the supervisor as likely to jeopardize the satisfactory execution of the works. 14.2.
Article 15 Performance guarantee 15.1.
However, it may in no case exceed 20 % of such price. 15.2.
If the performance guarantee is to be provided in the form of a bank guarantee, a banker's draft, a certified cheque or a bond, it shall be issued by a bank or bonding and/or insurance company approved by the contracting authority in accordance with the eligibility criteria applicable for the award of the contract. 15.4.
Unless the contract provides otherwise the performance guarantee shall be released within 30 days of the issue of the signed final statement of account referred to in Article 51.
Article 16 Insurance 16.1.
Such insurance shall be for at least the amount stated in the special conditions.
Furthermore, he shall ensure that all his subcontractors have taken out a similar insurance. 16.5.
The contractor shall produce to the contracting authority the insurance policy and shall furnish proof of regular payment of premiums without delay whenever he is required to do so by the contracting authority or the supervisor. 16.6.
Article 17 Performance programme 17.1.
The contractor shall draw up, and submit for the approval of the supervisor, a programme of performance of the contract, in accordance with the special conditions.
The approval of the programme by the supervisor shall not relieve the contractor from any of his obligations under the contract. 17.3.
Article 18 Detailed breakdown of prices 18.1.
Where appropriate and within a period of not more than 20 days following the supervisor's reasoned request, the contractor shall provide a detailed breakdown of his rates and prices, where such breakdown is required for any purpose under the contract. 18.2.
Article 19 Contractor's drawings 19.1.
The contractor shall submit to the supervisor for approval: (a) such drawings, documents, samples and/or models as may be specified in the contract within the time limits laid down therein or in the programme of performance; (b) such drawings as the supervisor may reasonably require for the performance of the contract. 19.2.
If the supervisor fails to notify his decision of approval referred to in Article 19.1 within the time limits referred to in the contract or the approved programme of performance, such drawings, documents, samples or models shall be deemed to be approved at the end of the time limits specified.
If no time limit is specified, they shall be deemed to be approved 30 days after receipt. 19.3.
The contractor shall supply additional copies of approved drawings in the form and number stated in the contract or in subsequent administrative orders. 19.5.
The approval of the drawings, documents, samples or models by the supervisor shall not relieve the contractor from any of his obligations under the contract. 19.6.
The supervisor shall have the right at all reasonable times to inspect all contract drawings, documents, samples or models at the contractor's premises. 19.7.
Article 20 Sufficiency of tender prices 20.1.
The contractor shall be deemed to have satisfied himself before submitting his tender as to the correctness and sufficiency of the tender and of the rates and prices stated in the bill of quantities or price schedule which shall, except in so far as it is otherwise provided in the contract, cover all his obligations under the contract. 20.3.
Article 21 Exceptional risks 21.1.
The special conditions shall state the amount of the advances which shall not exceed 10 % of the original contract price in respect of the lump-sum advance in Article 46.1 (a) and 20 % of such prices for all other advances in Article 46.1 (b). 46.3.
The advance guarantee provided for in Article 46 shall be released as and when advances are repaid. 46.8.
The sum which shall be retained from interim payments by way of guarantee to meet the contractor's obligations during the maintenance period, and the detailed rules governing that guarantee, shall be stipulatd in the special conditions, provided that it shall, in no case, exceed 10 % of the contract price. 47.2.
Subject to the approval of the contracting authority, the contractor may, if he so wishes, substitute, not later than the date fixed for the commencement of the works, these retention sums by a retention guarantee issued in accordance with Article 15.3. 47.3.
The sum retained or the retention guarantee shall be released within 90 days of the date of final acceptance of the works.
Article 48 Revision of prices 48.1.
Unless otherwise stipulated in the special conditions, and except as provided in Article 48.4 the contract shall be at fixed prices which shall not be revised. 48.2.
Where prices may be revised under the contract, such revision shall take into account variations in the prices of significant local or external elements which served as a basis for the calculation of the tender price, such as manpower, services, materials and supplies, as well as charges laid down by law or regulation.
The detailed rules for the revision shall be as laid down in the special conditions. 48.3.
Prices contained in the contractor's tender shall be deemed: (a) to have been arrived at on the basis of the conditions in force 30 days prior to the latest date fixed for submission of tenders; or in the case of direct agreement contracts, on the date of the contract; (b) to have taken account of the legislation and the relevant tax arrangements applicable at the reference date fixed in Article 48.3 (a). 48.4.
In the event of changes to, or introduction of, any national or State statute, ordinance, decree or other law, or any regulation or by-law of any local or other public authority, after the date stated in Article 48.3 which causes a change in the contractual relationship between the parties to the contract, the contracting authority and the contractor shall consult on how best to proceed further under the contract, and may as a result of such consultation decide: (a) to modify the contract; or (b) on payment of compensation for the resulting imbalance by one party to the other; or (c) to terminate the contract by mutual agreement. 48.5.
In the event of a delay in the execution of the works for which the contractor is responsible, or at the end of the period of performance revised as necessary in accordance with the contract, there shall be no further revision of prices within the 30 days before provisional acceptance, except for the application of new price indexation, if this is to the benefit of the contracting authority.
Where items are accompanied by quantities, these shall be firm quantities for which the contractor has submitted his all-in price, and shall be paid for irrespective of the quantities of work actually carried out; (b) for unit price contracts: (i) the amount due under the contract shall be calculated by applying the unit rates to the quantities actually executed for the respective items, in accordance with the contract; i(ii) the quantities set out in the bill of quantities shall be the estimated quantities of the works, which shall not be taken as the actual and correct quantities of the works to be executed by the contractor in fulfilment of his obligations under the contract; (iii) the supervisor shall determine by measurement the actual quantities of the works executed by the contractor, and these shall be paid for in accordance with Article 50.
Unless otherwise provided in the special conditions no additions shall be made to the items in the bill of quantities except as a result of a variation in accordance with Article 37 or other provision of the contract entitling the contractor to additional payment; (iv) the supervisor shall, when he requires any parts of the works to be measured, give reasonable notice to the contractor to attend, or to send a qualified agent to represent him.
The special conditions shall stipulate the information which the contractor is required to submit to the supervisor for the purpose of Article 49.1 (c) and the manner in which it should be submitted. 49.2.
Article 50 Interim payments 50.1.
Unless otherwise specified in the special conditions, the contractor shall submit an application for interim payment to the supervisor at the end of each period referred to in Article 50.7 in a form approved by the supervisor.
The application shall include the following items, as applicable: (a) the estimated contract value of the permanent works executed up to the end of the period in question; (b) an amount reflecting any revision of prices pursuant to Article 48; (c) an amount to be withheld as retention sum under Article 47; (d) any credit and/or debit for the period in question in respect of plant and materials on site intended for, but not yet incorporated in, the permanent works in the amount and under the conditions set out in Article 50.2; (e) an amount to be deducted on account of the advance repayment under the provisions of Article 46; and (f) any other sum to which the contractor may be entitled under the contract. 50.2.
The contractor shall be entitled to such sums as the supervisor may consider proper in respect of plant and materials intended for, but not yet incorporated in, the permanent works provided that: (a) the plant and materials conform with the specifications for the permanent works and are set out in batches in a way that they may be recognized by the supervisor; (b) such plant and materials have been delivered to the site, and are properly stored and protected against loss or damage or deterioration to the satisfaction of the supervisor; (c) the contractor's record of requirements, orders, receipts and use of plant and materials under the contract are kept in a form approved by the supervisor and such records are available for inspection by the supervisor; (d) the contractor submits with his statement, the estimated value of the plant and materials on site together with such documents as may be required by the supervisor for the purpose of valuation of the plant and materials and providing evidence of ownership and payment therefor; and (e) where the special conditions so provide, ownership of the plant and materials referred to in Article 43 shall be deemed to be vested in the contracting authority. 50.3.
Approval by the supervisor of any interim payment certified by him in respect of plant and materials pursuant to Article 50 shall be without prejudice to the exercise of any power of the supervisor under the contract to reject any plant or materials which are not in accordance with the provisions of the contract. 50.4.
Within 30 days of receipt of the said application for interim payment, it shall be approved or amended in such a manner that, in the supervisor's opinion, the application reflects the amount due to the contractor in accordance with the contract.
The supervisor may, by an interim payment certificate, make any corrections or modifications to any previous certificate issued by him and shall have power to modify the valuation in or withhold the issue of, any interim payment certificate if the works or any part thereof are not being carried out to his satisfaction. 50.7.
Article 51 Final statement of account 51.1.
Not later than 90 days after the issue of the final acceptance certificate referred to in Article 62, the contractor shall submit to the supervisor a draft final statement of account with supporting documents showing in detail the value of the work done in accordance with the contract, together with all further sums which the contractor considers to be due to him under the contract in order to enable the supervisor to prepare the final statement of account.
The special conditions may, however, in accordance with Article 51.6 state that the draft final statement of account and further proceedings related thereto, be dealt with before the issue of the provisional acceptance certificate. 51.2.
Within 90 days after receipt of the draft final statement of account and of all information reasonably required for its verification, the supervisor shall prepare the final statement of account, which determines: (a) the amount which in his opinion is finally due under the contract; and (b) after establishing the amounts previously paid by the contracting authority and all sums to which the contracting authority is entitled under the contract, the balance, if any, due from the contracting authority to the contractor, or from the contractor to the contracting authority, as the case may be. 51.3.
The contracting authority shall not be liable to the contractor for any matter or thing whatsoever arising out of, or in accordance with, the contract or execution of the works, unless the contractor shall have included a claim in respect thereof in his draft final statement of account. 51.6.
Article 52 Direct payments to subcontractors 52.1.
Direct payments to subcontractors shall be made entirely in the national currency of the country in which the contract is performed, or partly in such national currency and partly in foreign currency, in accordance with the contract. 52.5.
Where direct payments to subcontractors are made in foreign currency, they shall be calculated in accordance with Article 56.
They shall not result in any increase in the total amount payable in foreign currency, as stipulated in the contract. 52.6.
The provisions of Article 52 shall apply subject to the requirements of the law applicable by virtue of Article 54 concerning the right to payment of creditors who are beneficiaries of an assignment of credit or of a collateral security.
Article 53 Delayed payments 53.1.
Payment to the contractor of the amounts due under each of the interim payment certificates and the final statement of account issued by the supervisor shall be made by the contracting authority within 90 days of such certificate or statement being delivered to the contracting authority.
If the period laid down for payment has been exceeded, the contractor shall qualify for interest calculated pro rata on the basis of the number of days delay at the rate specified in the special conditions, subject to a maximum period, also specified therein.
The contractor shall be entitled to such payment without prejudice to any other right or remedy under the contract.
In the case of the final statement of account, the interest for the delayed payment shall be calculated on a daily basis at the rate specified in the special conditions. 53.2.
Any default in payment of more than 120 days from the expiry of the period laid down in Article 53.1 shall entitle the contractor either not to perform the contract or to terminate it.
The assignment shall be notified to the contracting authority. 54.2.
In the event of a legally binding attachment of the property of the contractor affecting payments due to him under the contract, without prejudice to the time limit laid down in Article 53, the contracting authority shall have 30 days, starting from the day when it receives notification of the definitive lifting of the obstacle to payment, to resume payments to the contractor.
Article 55 Claims for additional payment 55.1.
If under the contract there are circumstances which the contractor considers entitle him to additional payment, the contractor shall: (a) if he intends to make any claim for additional payment, give to the supervisor notice of his intention or make such claim within 15 days after the said circumstances become known to the contractor, stating the reason for his claim; and (b) as soon as is reasonably practicable after the date of such notice but not later than 60 days after such notice, unless otherwise agreed by the supervisor, submit to the supervisor full and detailed particulars of his claim.
When the supervisor has received the full and detailed particulars of the contractor's claim that he requires, he shall, without prejudice to Article 21.4, after due consultation with the contracting authority and, where appropriate, the contractor, determine whether the contractor is entitled to additional payment and notify the parties accordingly. 55.3.
The supervisor may reject any claim for additional payment which does not comply with the requirements of Article 55.
Article 56 Payments in foreign currency Where under the contract the contractor is entitled to payments in foreign currency, the rates of exchange for calculating the payments shall be those prevailing, as determined by the Central Bank of the State of the contracting authority, 30 days prior to the latest date fixed for the submission of tenders for the contract.
ACCEPTANCE AND MAINTENANCE Article 57 General clauses 57.1.
The contractor shall not invoke these circumstances in order to avoid his obligation to present the works in a state suitable for acceptance.
The contractor shall notify the supervisor of the date on which such verification and tests may commence. 58.2.
Article 59 Partial acceptance 59.1.
In the cases of partial provisional acceptance referred to in Articles 59.1 and 59.2 the maintenance period provided for in Article 62 shall, unless the special conditions provide otherwise, run as from the date of such partial provisional acceptance.
Article 60 Provisional acceptance 60.1.
The contractor may apply, by notice to the supervisor, for a certificate of provisional acceptance not earlier than 15 days before the works, in the contractor's opinion, are complete and ready for provisional acceptance.
The supervisor shall within 30 days after the receipt of the contractor's application either: (a) issue the certificate of provisional acceptance to the contractor with a copy to the contracting authority stating, where appropriate, his reservations, and, inter alia, the date on which, in his opinion, the works were completed in accordance with the contract and ready for provisional acceptance; or (b) reject the application giving his reasons and specifying the action which, in his opinion, is required of the contractor for the certificate to be issued. 60.3.
If the supervisor fails either to issue the certificate of provisional acceptance or to reject the contractor's application within the period of 30 days, he shall be deemed to have issued the certificate on the last day of that period.
Immediately after provisional acceptance, the contracting authority may make use of all the works as completed.
Article 61 Maintenance obligations 61.1.
The contractor shall be responsible for making good any defect in, or damage to, any part of the works which may appear or occur during the maintenance period or within 30 days after its expiration and which arises either from: (a) the use of defective plant or materials or faulty workmanship or design of the contractor; and/or (b) any act or omission of the contractor during the maintenance period. 61.2.
If the contract provides for partial acceptance, the maintenance period shall be extended only for the part of the works affected by the replacement or renewal. 61.3.
If any such defect appears or such damage occurs, during the period referred to in Article 61.1, the contracting authority or the supervisor shall notify the contractor.
Deterioration resulting from the circumstances provided for in Article 21 or from abnormal use shall be excluded from this obligation unless it reveals a fault or defect justifying the request for repair or replacement under Article 61. 61.7.
If the duration of the maintenance period is not specified, it shall be 365 days.
The maintenance period shall commence on the date of provisional acceptance. 61.8.
The works shall not be considered as completed until a final acceptance certificate has been signed by the supervisor and delivered to the contracting authority, with a copy to the contractor. 62.3.
BREACH OF CONTRACT AND TERMINATION Article 63 Breach of contract 63.1.
Where a breach of contract occurs, the party injured by the breach shall be entitled to the following remedies: (a) damages; and/or (b) termination of the contract. 63.3.
Article 64 Termination by the contracting authority 64.1.
Except as otherwise provided in these general conditions, the contracting authority may, after giving seven days notice to the contractor, terminate the contract and expel the contractor from the site in any of the cases where: (a) the contractor fails to carry out the works substantially in accordance with the provisions of the contract; (b) the contractor fails to comply within a reasonable time with a notice given by the supervisor requiring him to make good any neglect or failure to perform his obligations under the contract which seriously affects the proper and timely performance of the works; (c) the contractor refuses or neglects to carry out administrative orders given by the supervisor; (d) the contractor assigns the contract or subcontracts without the authorization of the contracting authority; (e) the contractor becomes bankrupt or insolvent, or has a receiving order made against him, or compounds with his creditors, or carries on business under a receiver, trustee or manager for the benefit of his creditors, or goes into liquidation; (f) any adverse final judgment is made in respect of an offence relating to the professional conduct of the contractor; (g) any other legal disability hindering performance of the contract occurs; (h) any organizational modification occurs involving a change in the legal personality, nature or control of the contractor, unless such modification is recorded in an endorsement to the contract; (i) the contractor fails to provide the required guarantee or insurance, or if the person providing the earlier guarantee or insurance is not able to abide by his commitments. 64.3.
Termination shall be without prejudice to any other rights or powers under the contract of the contracting authority and the contractor.
The contracting authority may, thereafter, complete the works himself or conclude any other contract with a third party for the account of the contractor.
The contractor's liability for delay in completion shall immediately cease when the contracting authority expels him from the site without prejudice to any liability thereunder that may have already ocurred. 64.4.
If the contracting authority terminates the contract, it shall be entitled to recover from the contractor any loss it has suffered up to the maximum amount stated in the contract.
Where the termination is not due to an act or omission of the contractor, the latter shall be entitled to claim in addition to sums owing to him for work already performed, an indemnity for loss suffered.
Article 65 Termination by the contractor 65.1.
The contractor may, after giving 14 days notice to the contracting authority, terminate the contract if the contracting authority: (a) fails to pay the contractor the amounts due under any certificate issued by the supervisor after the expiry of the time limit stated in Article 53.2; or (b) consistently fails to meet his obligations after repeated reminders; or (c) suspends the progress of the works or any part thereof for more than 180 days, for reasons not specified in the contract, or not due to the contractor's default. 65.2.
Such additional payment shall not exceed a limit which has to be specified in the contract.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Articles 36 and 64, the contractor shall not be liable to forfeiture of his performance guarantee, liquidated damages or termination for default if, and to the extent that, his delay in performance or other failure to perform his obligations under the contract is the result of an event of force majeure.
The contracting authority shall similarly not be liable, notwithstanding the provisions of Articles 53 and 65, to payment of interest on delayed payments, for non-performance or for termination by the contractor for default, if, and to the extent that, the contracting authority's delay or other failure to perform its obligations is the result of force majeure. 66.4.
If either party considers that any circumstances of force majeure have occurred which may affect performance of his obligations, he shall promptly notify the other party and the supervisor, giving details of the nature, the probable duration and the likely effect of the circumstances.
Unless otherwise directed by the supervisor in writing, the contractor shall continue to perform his obligations under the contract as far as is reasonably practicable, and shall seek all reasonable alternative means for performance of his obligations which are not prevented by the force majeure event.
The contractor shall not put into effect such alternative means unless directed so to do by the supervisor. 66.5.
If the contractor incurs additional costs in complying with the supervisor's directions or using alternative means under Article 66.4, the amount thereof shall be certified by the supervisor. 66.6.
If circumstances of force majeure have occurred and continue for a period of 180 days then, notwithstanding any extension of time for completion of the works that the contractor may be reason thereof have been granted, either party shall be entitled to serve upon the other 30 days' notice to terminate the contract.
If, at the expiry of the period of 30 days, force majeure still continues, the contract shall terminate and, in consequence thereof under the law governing the contract, the parties shall be released from further performance of the contract.
Article 67 Decease 67.1.
The decision of the contracting authority shall be notified to those concerned within 30 days of receipt of such proposal. 67.2.
Continuation of the contract shall be subject to the rules relating to establishment of the guarantee provided for in Article 15.
SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES Article 68 Settlement of disputes 68.1.
The special conditions shall prescribe: (a) the procedure for the amicable settlement of disputes; (b) the time limits within which the amicable settlement procedure may be invoked after notification of the dispute to the other party and the maximum time limit within which such settlement may be reached, which may not exceed 120 days from the commencement of the adopted procedure; (c) the time limits for responding in writing to a request for amicable settlement or to other requests permitted during the course of that procedure and the consequence of failure to comply with those time limits. 68.3.
The parties may agree to the settlement of the dispute by conciliation within a specific time limit by a third party after the amicable settlement procedure adopted has failed. 68.4.
Where the context so permits, words importing the singular shall be deemed to include the plural and vice versa and words importing the masculine shall be deemed to include the feminine and vice versa. 1.4.
The law of the contract shall be the law of the State of the contracting authority unless otherwise stated in the special conditions. 2.2.
In all matters which are not covered by these general conditions, the law of the contract shall apply. 2.3.
Article 3 Order of precedence of contract documents Unless otherwise stipulated in the contract, the order of precedence of the contract documents shall be as stated in the special conditions.
Article 4 Notices and written communications 4.1.
In any event, the sender shall take all the necessary measures to ensure receipt of his communication. 4.3.
Article 5 Supervisor and supervisor's representative 5.1.
The supervisor shall carry out the duties specified in the contract.
Any such delegation, revocation or replacement shall be in writing and shall not take effect until a copy thereof has been delivered to the supplier. 5.3.
Where applicable, such orders shall be dated, numbered and entered in a register and copies thereof delivered by hand, where appropriate, to the supplier's representative.
Article 6 Assignment 6.1.
An assignment shall be valid only if it is a written agreement by which the supplier transfers his contract or part thereof to a third party. 6.2.
The supplier shall not, without the prior written consent of the contracting authority, assign the contract or any part thereof, or any benefit or interest thereunder, except in the following cases: (a) a charge, in favour of the supplier's bankers, of any monies due or to become due under the contract; or (b) assignment to the supplier's insurers, of the supplier's right to obtain relief against any other person liable in cases where the insurers have discharged the supplier's loss or liability. 6.3.
If the supplier has assigned his contract without authorization, the contracting authority may, without giving formal notice thereof, apply as of right the sanctions for breach of contract provided for in Articles 43 and 44. 6.5.
Assignees must satisfy the eligibility criteria applicable for the award of the contract.
Article 7 Subcontracting 7.1.
A subcontract shall be valid only if it is a written agreement by which the supplier entrusts performance of a part of his contract to a third party. 7.2.
The contracting authority shall, with due regard to the provisions of Article 4.3, within 30 days of receipt of the notification, notify the supplier of his decision, stating reasons should he withhold such authorization. 7.3.
In the selection of subcontractors preference shall be given by the supplier to natural persons, companies or firms of the State of the contracting authority capable of providing the supplies required on similar terms. 7.4.
Subcontractors must satisfy the eligibility criteria applicable for the award of the contract. 7.5.
If a subcontractor has undertaken any continuing obligation extending for a period exceeding that of the warranty period under the contract towards the supplier in respect of the supplies provided by the subcontractor, the supplier shall, at any time after the expiration of the warranty period, transfer immediately to the contracting authority, at the contracting authority's request and cost, the benefit of such obligation for the unexpired duration thereof. 7.8.
If the supplier enters into a subcontract without approval, the contracting authority may, without giving formal notice thereof, apply as of right the sanctions for breach of contract provided for in Articles 43 and 44.
OBLIGATIONS OF THE CONTRACTING AUTHORITY Article 8 Supply of documents 8.1.
Within 30 days of the establishment of the performance guarantee provided for in Article 11, the supervisor shall provide to the supplier, free of charge, a copy of the drawings prepared for the performance of the contract as well as two copies of the specifications and other contract documents.
Upon the issue of the warranty certificate or upon final acceptance, the supplier shall return to the supervisor all drawings, specifications and other contract documents. 8.2.
Unless it is necessary for the purposes of the contract, the drawings, specifications and other documents provided by the contracting authority shall not be used or communicated to a third party by the supplier without the prior consent of the supervisor. 8.3.
Article 9 Assistance with local regulations 9.1.
The contracting authority may provide the assistance requested to the supplier at the supplier's cost. 9.2.
OBLIGATIONS OF THE SUPPLIER Article 10 General obligations 10.1.
Where the supplier considers that the requirements of an administrative order go beyond the authority of the supervisor or the scope of the contract he shall, on pain of being time-barred, give notice, with reasons, to the supervisor within 30 days after receipt thereof.
Article 11 Performance guarantee 11.1.
The supplier shall, within 30 days after the receipt of the notification of the award of contract, furnish to the contracting authority a guarantee for the full and proper performance of the contract.
The performance guarantee shall be held against payment to the contracting authority for any loss resulting from the supplier's failure to fully and properly perform his obligations under the contract. 11.3.
Except for such part as may be specified in the special conditions in respect of after-sales service, the performance guarantee shall be released within 30 days of the issue of the signed final statement of account referred to in Article 33.
Article 12 Insurance 12.1.
The special conditions may also make provisions for other types of insurance to be borne by the supplier. 12.2.
Article 13 Performance programme 13.1.
The programme shall contain at least the following: (a) the order in which the supplier proposes to execute the contract including design, manufacture, delivery to place of acceptance, installation, testing and commissioning; (b) the time limits within which submission and approval of the drawings are required; (c) a general description of the methods which the supplier proposes to adopt for executing the contract; and (d) such further details and information as the supervisor may reasonably require. 13.2.
The approval of the programme by the supervisor shall not relieve the supplier from any of his obligations under the contract. 13.3.
Article 14 Detailed breakdown of prices 14.1.
After the notification of award of contract, the supplier shall, where appropriate and within the time limits stated in the special conditions, provide to the supervisor for his information only, a detailed cash flow estimate, in quarterly periods, of all payments which may be due to the supplier under the contract.
Article 15 Supplier's drawings 15.1.
If the special conditions so provide, the supplier shall submit to the supervisor for approval: (a) such drawings, documents, samples, and/or models as may be specified in the contract within the time limits laid down therein or in the programme of performance; (b) such drawings as the supervisor may reasonably require for the performance of the contract. 15.2.
If the supervisor fails to notify his decision of approval referred to in Article 15.1 within the time limits required by the contract or the approved programme of performance, such drawings, documents, samples or models shall be deemed to be approved at the end of the time limit specified.
The supplier shall supply additional copies of approved drawings in the form and numbers stated in the contract or in subsequent administrative orders. 15.5.
The approval of the drawings, documents, samples or models shall not relieve the supplier from any of his obligations under the contract. 15.6.
The supervisor shall have the right at all reasonable times to inspect all contract drawings, documents, samples or models at the supplier's premises. 15.7.
Article 16 Sufficiency of tender prices 16.1.
Subject to any additional provisions which may be laid down in the special conditions, the supplier shall be deemed to have satisfied himself before submitting his tender as to the correctness and sufficiency of the tender and to have taken account of all that is required for the full and proper performance of the contract and to have included in his rates and prices all costs related to the supplies, in particular: (a) the costs of transport; (b) the costs of handling, packing, loading, unloading, transit, delivery, unpacking, checking, insurance, and other administrative costs in connection with the supplies.
The packaging shall be the property of the contracting authority unless the special conditions provide otherwise; (c) the cost of documents relating to the supplies where such documents are required by the contracting authority; (d) performance and supervision of on-site assembly and/or start up of the delivered supplies; (e) furnishing of tools required for assembly and/or maintenance of the delivered supplies; (f) furnishing of detailed operation and maintenance manual for each unit of the delivered supplies, as specified in the contract; (g) supervision or maintenance and/or repair of the supplies, for a period of time stated in the contract, provided that this service shall not relieve the supplier of any warranty obligations under the contract; and (h) training of the contracting authority's personnel, at the supplier's factory and/or elsewhere as specified in the contract. 16.2.
Article 17 Patents and licences Save where otherwise provided in the special conditions, the supplier shall indemnify the contracting authority and the supervisor against any claim resulting from the use, as specified in the contract, of patents, licences, drawings, designs, models, or brand or trade marks, except where such infringement results from compliance with the design or specifications provided by the contracting authority and/or the supervisor.
Article 19 Period of performance 19.1.
The period of performance shall commence on the date fixed in accordance with Article 18.1 and shall be as stated in the contract, without prejudice to extensions of the period which may be granted under Article 20. 19.2.
The supplier may request an extension to the period of performance if he is or will be delayed in completing the contract by any of the following causes: (a) extra or additional supplies ordered by the contracting authority; (b) exceptional weather conditions in the State of the contracting authority which may affect installation or erection of the supplies; (c) physical obstructions or conditions which may affect delivery of the supplies, which could not reasonably have been foreseen by a competent supplier; (d) administrative orders affecting the date of completion other than those arising from the supplier's default; (e) failure of the contracting authority to fulfil his obligations under the contract; (f) any suspension of the delivery and/or installation of the supplies which is not due to the supplier's default; (g) force majeure; (h) any other causes referred to in these general conditions which are not due to the supplier's default. 20.2.
The supplier shall, within 15 days of becoming aware that delay may occur, notify the supervisor of his intention to make a request for extension of the period of performance to which he considers himself entitled, and shall within 60 days thereafter, except where otherwise agreed between the supplier and the supervisor, deliver to the supervisor full and detailed particulars of the request, in order that such request may be investigated at the time. 20.3.
Article 21 Delays in performance 21.1.
If the supplier fails to deliver any or all of the goods or perform the services within the time period(s) specified in the contract, the contracting authority shall, without formal notice and without prejudice to his other remedies under the contract, be entitled to liquidated damages for every day or part thereof which shall elapse between the end of the period specified for performance, or extended performance under Article 20, and the actual date of completion, at the rate and up to the maximum amount specified in the special conditions. 21.2.
Article 22 Variations 22.1.
N° variation shall be made except by administrative order, provided that: (a) if for any reason, the supervisor shall find it necessary to give an order orally, he shall as soon as possible thereafter confirm the order by an administrative order; (b) if the supplier shall confirm in writing an oral order given for the purpose of Article 22.2 (a) and the confirmation shall not be contradicted in writing forthwith by the supervisor, an administrative order shall be deemed to have been issued for the variation; (c) an administrative order for variation shall not be required for increase or decrease in the quantity of any work where such increase or decrease is the result of the quantity exceeding or being less than that stated in the bill of quantities or price schedule. 22.3.
As soon as possible, after receiving such notice, the supplier shall submit to the supervisor a proposal containing: (a) a description of the tasks, if any, to be performed or the measures to be taken and a programme for execution; and (b) any necessary modifications to the programme of performance or to any of the supplier's obligations under the contract; and (c) any adjustment to the contract price in accordance with the rules as set out in Article 22. 22.4.
If the supervisor decides that the variation shall be carried out he shall issue the administrative order stating that the variation shall be carried out at the prices and under the conditions given in the supplier's submission referred to in Article 22.3 or as modified by the supervisor in accordance with Article 22.5. 22.5.
Where on provisional acceptance, an increase or reduction in the total value of supplies required under the contract resulting from an administrative order, or from some other circumstance which is not caused by the supplier's default, exceeds 15 % of the contract price, the supervisor shall, after consultation with the contracting authority and the supplier determine any additions to or reduction from the contract price as a consequence of the application of Article 22.5.
The sum so determined shall be based on the amount by which the increase or decrease in value of the supplies exceeds 15 %.
The supplier shall not be entitled to be paid any additional expenses if the suspension is: (a) otherwise provided for in the contract; or (b) necessary by reason of normal climatic conditions at the place of acceptance; or (c) necessary by reason of some default of the supplier; or (d) necessary for the safety or the proper execution of the contract or any part thereof insofar as such necessity does not arise from any act or default by the supervisor or the contracting authority. 23.4.
The supervisor, after consultation with the contracting authority and the supplier, shall determine such extra payment and/or extension of the period of performance to be made to the supplier in respect of such claim as shall, in the opinion of the supervisor, be fair and reasonable. 23.6.
If the period of suspension exceeds 180 days, and the suspension is not due to the supplier's default, the supplier may, by notice to the supervisor, request permission to proceed with the supplies within 30 days, or terminate the contract.
MATERIALS AND WORKMANSHIP Article 24 Quality of supplies 24.1.
The supplies must in all respects satisfy the technical specifications laid down in the special conditions and conform in all respects with the drawings, surveys, models, samples, patterns, and other requirements in the contract which shall be held at the disposal of the contracting authority or the supervisor for the purposes of identification throughout the period of performance. 24.2.
Any preliminary technical acceptance stipulated in the special conditions shall be the subject of a request sent by the supplier to the supervisor.
The materials, items and samples specified in the request must be certified by the supervisor as meeting the requirements for such acceptance prior to their incorporation in the supplies. 24.3.
The supplier may be given the opportunity to repair and make good materials and items which have been rejected, but such materials and items will be accepted for incorporation in the supplies only if they have been repaired and made good to the satisfaction of the supervisor.
Article 25 Inspection and testing 25.1.
The supplier shall ensure that the supplies are delivered to the place of acceptance in time to allow the supervisor to proceed with acceptance of the supplies.
If the supervisor is not present on the date agreed for tests, the supplier may, unless otherwise instructed by the supervisor, proceed with the tests, which shall be deemed to have been made in the supervisor's presence.
If the supervisor and the supplier disagree on the test results, each shall give a statement of his views to the other within 15 days after such disagreement arises.
Article 26 Property in the supplies 26.1.
The special conditions may provide that the supplier, for the purpose of securing payment under Article 32 in respect of any part of the supplies before delivery to the place of acceptance, shall: (a) vest that part of the supplies in the contracting authority; or (b) make that part of the supplies subject to a lien in favour of the contracting authority; or (c) make that part of the supplies subject to any other arrangement regarding priority interest or security. 26.2.
PAYMENTS Article 27 General provisions 27.1.
Payments shall be made in the national currency except as otherwise stipulated in the contract. 27.2.
The administrative or technical conditions to which the payment of advances, interim and/or final payments made in accordance with Articles 28 to 36 are subject, shall be as stated in the special conditions.
Article 28 Provisional price contracts 28.1.
Article 29 Advances 29.1.
Unless otherwise provided in the special conditions, advances shall be granted to the supplier, at his request, for operations connected with the provision of the supplies as a lump-sum advance. 29.2.
Subject to the provisions of the special conditions, the total amount of the advances shall not exceed 60 % of the contract price. 29.3.
N° advance shall be granted until: (a) the conclusion of the contract; (b) provision to the contracting authority by the supplier of the performance guarantee in accordance with Article 11; and (c) provision to the contracting authority by the supplier of a separate directly liable guarantee for the full amount of the advance by the institutions referred to in Article 11.3, which shall remain effective for at least 60 days after provisional acceptance of the supplies. 29.4.
The supplier shall use the advance exclusively for operations connected with the provision of the supplies.
The advance guarantee provided for in Article 29 shall not be released before provisional acceptance of the supplies but shall be released within 60 days thereafter. 29.8.
The sum which shall be retained from interim payments by way of guarantee to meet the supplier's obligations during the warranty period, and the detailed rules governing that guarantee, shall be as stipulated in the special conditions, provided that it shall in no case exceed 10 % of the contract price. 30.2.
Article 31 Revision of prices 31.1.
Unless otherwise stipulated in the special conditions, and except as provided in Article 31.4, contracts shall be at fixed prices which shall not be revised. 31.2.
The detailed rules for the revision shall be as laid down in the special conditions. 31.3.
Prices contained in the supplier's tender shall be deemed: (a) to have been arrived at on the basis of the conditions in force 30 days prior to the latest date fixed for submission of tenders or, in the case of direct agreement contracts, on the date of the contract; (b) to have taken account of the legislation and the relevant tax arrangements applicable at the reference date fixed in Article 31.3 (a). 31.4.
In the event of changes to, or introduction of, any national or State statute, ordinance, decree or other law, or any regulation or by-law of any local or other public authority, after the date stated in Article 31.3 which causes a change in the contractual relationship between parties to the contract, the contracting authority and the supplier shall consult on how best to proceed further under the contract, and may as a result of such consultation decide: (a) to modify the contract; or (b) on payment of compensation for the resulting imbalance by one party to the other; or (c) to terminate the contract by mutual agreement. 31.5.
Article 32 Interim payments 32.1.
Unless otherwise specified in the special conditions, the supplier shall submit an application for interim payment to the supervisor at the end of each period referred to in Article 32.7 in a form approved by the supervisor.
The application shall include the following items, as applicable: (a) the estimated contract value of the supplies delivered up to the end of the period in question; (b) an amount reflecting any revision of prices pursuant to Article 31; (c) an amount to be withheld as retention sum under Article 30; (d) any credit and/or debit for the period in question in respect of supplies delivered under the contract, but not yet installed or commissioned in the amount and under the conditions set out in Article 32.2; (e) any other sum to which the supplier may be entitled under the contract. 32.2.
The supplier shall be entitled to such sums as the supervisor may consider proper in respect of supplies delivered under the contract, but not yet installed or commissioned, provided that: (a) the supplies conform to the specification of the contract and are set out in batches in a way that they may be recognized by the supervisor; (b) such supplies have been delivered to the place of acceptance, and are properly stored and protected against loss, damage or deterioration to the satisfaction of the supervisor; (c) the supplier's record of requirements, orders, receipts and use of goods and materials under the contract are kept in a form approved by the supervisor and such records are available for inspection by the supervisor; (d) the supplier submits with his statement, the estimated value of the supplies at the place of acceptance, together with such documents as may be required by the supervisor for the purpose of valuation of the supplies and providing evidence of ownership and payment therefor; and (e) where the special conditions so provide, ownership of the supplies shall be deemed to be vested in the contracting authority. 32.3.
Approval by the supervisor of any interim payment certified by him in respect of goods and materials pursuant to Article 32 shall be without prejudice to the exercise of any power of the supervisor under the contract to reject any goods and materials which are not in accordance with the provisions of the contract.
Within 30 days of receipt of the said application for interim payment, it shall be approved or amended in such manner that, in the supervisor's opinion, it reflects the amount due to the supplier in accordance with the contract.
The supervisor may, by an interim payment certificate, make any corrections or modifications to any previous certificate issued by him and shall have power to modify the valuation in or withhold the issuing of any interim payment certificate if the contract, or any part thereof, has not been executed to his satisfaction. 32.7.
The frequency of interim payments shall be laid down in the special conditions in accordance with the characteristics of the supplies. 32.8.
The special conditions may require certain interim payments to be fully secured by a guarantee approved in accordance with Article 11.
Article 33 Final statement of account 33.1.
Not later than 60 days after the issue of the final acceptance certificate referred to in Article 41, the supplier shall submit to the supervisor a draft final statement of account with supporting documents showing in detail the value of the supplies provided in accordance with the contract, together with all further sums which the supplier considers to be due to him under the contract in order to enable the supervisor to prepare the final statement of account.
The special conditions may, however, in accordance with Article 33.6 state that the draft final statement of account and further proceedings related thereto, be dealt with before the issue of the provisional acceptance certificate. 33.2.
Within 60 days after receipt of this draft final statement of account and of all information reasonably required for its verification, the supervisor shall prepare the final statement of account, which determines: (a) the amount which in his opinion is finally due under the contract; and (b) after establishing the amounts previously paid by the contracting authority and all sums to which the contracting authority is entitled under the contract, the balance, if any, due from the contracting authority to the supplier, or from the supplier to the contracting authority, as the case may be. 33.3.
The contracting authority shall not be liable to the supplier for any matter or thing whatsoever arising out of, or in connection with, the contract or provision of the supplies, unless the supplier shall have included a claim in respect thereof in his draft final statement of account. 33.6.
The provisions of Article 33 may be varied by the special conditions having regard to the practices in the State of the contracting authority.
All orders for payment to third parties may be carried out only after an assignment made in accordance with Article 6.
The assignment shall be notified to the contracting authority. 34.2.
In the event of a legally binding attachment of the property of the supplier affecting payments due to him under the contract, and without prejudice to the time limit laid down in Article 35, the contracting authority shall have 30 days, starting from the day when it receives notification of the definitive lifting of the obstacle to payment, to resume payments to the supplier.
Article 35 Delayed payments 35.1.
Payment to the supplier of the amounts due under each of the interim payment certificates and the final statement of account issued by the supervisor shall be made by the contracting authority within 90 days of such certificate or statement being delivered to the contracting authority.
If the period laid down for payment has been exceeded, the supplier shall qualify for interest calculated pro rata on the basis of the number of days delay at the rate specified in the special conditions subject to a maximum period, also specified therein.
The supplier shall be entitled to such payment without prejudice to any other right or remedy under the contract.
In the case of the final statement of account, the interest for the delayed payment shall be calculated on a daily basis at the rate specified in the special conditions. 35.2.
Any default in payment of more than 120 days from the expiry of the period laid down in Article 35.1 shall entitle the supplier either not to perform the contract or to terminate it.
Article 36 Payments in foreign currency Where under the contract the supplier is entitled to payments in foreign currency, the rates of exchange for calculating the payments shall be those prevailing, as determined by the Central Bank of the State of the contracting authority, 30 days prior to the latest date fixed for the submission of tenders for the contract.
ACCEPTANCE AND MAINTENANCE Article 37 Delivery 37.1.
The packaging, marking and documentation within and outside the packages shall comply with such special requirements as shall be expressly provided for in the contract, subject to any variations subsequently ordered by the supervisor. 37.4.
The supplier shall be responsible for the delivery at the place of acceptance of all supplies and supplier's equipment required for the purpose of the contract. 37.5.
This statement, the form of which shall be as prescribed by the special conditions, shall contain, in particular: - the date of delivery, - the reference number of the contract, - the identification of the supplier, - particulars of the goods supplied and, where appropriate, details of how they were divided for packing. 37.6.
Delivery shall be deemed to have been made when there is written evidence available to both parties that delivery of the supplies has taken place in accordance with the terms of the contract and the invoice(s) and all such other documentation as specified in the special conditions, have been submitted to the contracting authority.
Article 38 Verification operations 38.1.
The supervisor shall, during the progress of the delivery of the supplies and before the supplies are taken over, have the power to order or decide: (a) the removal from the place of acceptance, within such time or times as may be specified in the order, of any supplies which, in the opinion of the supervisor, are not in accordance with the contract; (b) the substitution by proper and suitable supplies; (c) the removal and proper re-installation, notwithstanding any previous test thereof or interim payment therefor, of any installation which in respect of materials, workmanship or design by the supplier for which he is responsible, is not, in the opinion of the supervisor, in accordance with the contract; (d) that any work done or goods supplied or materials used by the supplier is or are not in accordance with the contract, or that the supplies or any portion thereof do not fulfil the requirements of the contract. 38.3.
Article 39 Provisional acceptance 39.1.
The supplies shall be taken over by the contracting authority when they have been delivered in accordance with the contract, have satisfactorily passed the required tests, or have been commissioned, as the case may be, and a certificate of provisional acceptance has been issued or is deemed to have been issued. 39.2.
The supplier may apply, by notice to the supervisor, for a certificate of provisional acceptance not earlier than 15 days before the supplies, in the supplier's opinion, are complete and ready for provisional acceptance.
The supervisor shall within 30 days after the receipt of the supplier's application either: (a) issue the certificate of provisional acceptance to the supplier with a copy to the contracting authority stating, where appropriate, his reservations and, inter alia, the date on which, in his opinion, the supplies were completed in accordance with the contract and ready for provisional acceptance; or (b) reject the application giving his reasons and specifying the actions which, in his opinion, are required of the supplier for the certificate to be issued. 39.3.
The certificate of acceptance or rejection shall be drawn up within 30 days following the date on which such impossibility ceases to exist.
The supplier shall not invoke these circumstances in order to avoid the obligation of presenting the supplies in a state suitable for acceptance. 39.4.
If the supervisor fails either to issue the certificate of provisional acceptance or to reject the supplies within the period of 30 days, he shall be deemed to have issued the certificate on the last day of that period.
Article 40 Warranty obligations 40.1.
The supplier shall further warrant that all supplies shall have no defect arising from design, materials or workmanship, except insofar as the design or materials are required by the specifications, or from any act or omission of the contracting authority, that may develop under use of the supplies in the conditions obtaining in the State of the contracting authority. 40.2.
Unless otherwise specified in the special conditions, this warranty shall remain valid for 360 days after the supplies or any portion thereof, as the case may be, have been delivered and commissioned at the final destination indicated in the contract, or for 540 days after the date of shipment from the port of loading in the country of origin, whichever period ends earlier.
The supplier shall be responsible for making good any defect in or damage to any part of the supplies which may appear or occur during the warranty period, or within 30 days after its expiration and which arise either: (a) from the use of defective materials, faulty workmanship or design of the supplier; or (b) from any act or omission of the supplier during the warranty period; or (c) in the course of an inspection made by, or on behalf of, the contracting authority. 40.4.
If any such defects appear or such damage occurs during the period referred to in Article 40.3, the contracting authority or the supervisor shall notify the supplier.
If the supplier fails to remedy a defect or damage within the time limit stipulated in the notification, the contracting authority may: (a) remedy the defect or the damage itself, or employ someone else to carry out the work at the supplier's risk and cost, in which case the costs incurred by the contracting authority shall be deducted from monies due to or from guarantees held against the supplier or from both; or (b) terminate the contract. 40.6.
Article 41 After sales service An after sales service, if required by the contract, shall be provided in accordance with the details stipulated in the special conditions.
The final acceptance certificate shall be given by the supervisor within 30 days after the expiration of the warranty period, or as soon thereafter as any rectifications instructed, pursuant to Article 40, have been completed to the satisfaction of the supervisor. 42.2.
BREACH OF CONTRACT AND TERMINATION Article 43 Breach of contract 43.1.
Either party commits a breach of contract where he fails to discharge any of his obligations under the contract. 43.2.
Where a breach of contract occurs, the party injured by the breach shall be entitled to the following remedies: (a) damages; and/or (b) termination of the contract. 43.3.
Article 44 Termination by the contracting authority 44.1.
Except as otherwise provided in these general conditions, the contracting authority may, after giving seven days notice to the supplier, terminate the contract in any of the following cases where: (a) the supplier fails to provide the supplies in strict accordance with the provisions of the contract; (b) the supplier fails to comply within a reasonable time with a notice given by the supervisor requiring him to make good any neglect or failure to perform his obligations under the contract which seriously affect the proper and timely performance of the contract; (c) the supplier refuses or neglects to carry out administrative orders given by the supervisor; (d) the supplier assigns the contract or subcontracts without the authorization of the contracting authority; (e) the supplier becomes bankrupt or insolvent, or has a receiving order made against him, or compounds with his creditors, or carries on business under a receiver, trustee or manager for the benefit of his creditors, or goes into liquidation; (f) any adverse final judgment is made in respect of an offence relating to the professional conduct of the supplier; (g) any other legal disability hindering performance of the contract occurs; (h) any organizational modification occurs involving a change in the legal personality, nature or control of the supplier, unless such modification is recorded in an endorsement to the contract; (i) the supplier fails to provide the required guarantee or insurance, or if the person providing the earlier guarantee or insurance is not able to abide by his commitments. 44.3.
Termination shall be without prejudice to any other rights or powers under the contract of the contracting authority and the supplier.
The supplier's liability for delay in completion shall immediately cease upon termination without prejudice to any liability thereunder that may have already occurred. 44.4.
The supervisor shall, as soon as possible after termination, certify the value of the supplies and all sums due to the supplier as at the date of termination. 44.6.
If the contracting authority terminates the contract, it shall be entitled to recover from the supplier any loss it has suffered up to the maximum amount stated in the contract.
Article 45 Termination by the supplier 45.1.
The supplier may, giving 14 days notice to the contracting authority, terminate the contract if the contracting authority: (a) fails to pay the supplier the amounts due under any certificate issued by the supervisor after the expiry of the time limit stated in Article 35.2; (b) consistently fails to meet his obligations after repeated reminders; or (c) suspends the progress of the delivery of the supplies, or any part thereof, for more than 180 days, for reasons not specified in the contract, or not due to the supplier's default; 45.2.
Such termination shall be without prejudice to any other rights of the contracting authority or the supplier acquired under the contract. 45.3.
Such additional payment shall not exceed a limit which has to be specified in the contract.
Neither party shall be considered to be in default or in breach of his obligations under the contract if the performance of such obligations is prevented by any circumstances of force majeure which arises after the date of notification of award or the date when the contract becomes effective, whichever is the earlier. 46.2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Articles 21 and 44, the supplier shall not be liable to forfeiture of his performance guarantee, liquidated damages or termination for default if, and to the extent that, his delay in performance or other failure to perform his obligations under the contract is the result of an event of force majeure.
The contracting authority shall similarly not be liable, notwithstanding the provisions of Articles 35 and 45, to payment of interest on delayed payments, for non-performance or for termination by the supplier for default, if, and to the extent that, the contracting authority's delay or other failure to perform its obligations is the result of force majeure. 46.4.
Unless otherwise directed by the supervisor in writing, the supplier shall continue to perform his obligations under the contract as far as is reasonably practicable, and shall seek all reasonable alternative means for performance of his obligations which are not prevented by the force majeure event.
The supplier shall not put into effect such alternative means unless directed so to do by the supervisor. 46.5.
If circumstances of force majeure have occurred and continue for a period of 180 days then, notwithstanding any extension of time for completion of the contract that the supplier may by reason thereof have been granted, either party shall be entitled to serve upon the other 30 days' notice to terminate the contract.
If at the expiry of the period of 30 days, force majeure still continues, the contract shall terminate and, in consequence thereof under the law governing the contract, the parties shall be released from further performance of the contract.
Article 47 Decease 47.1.
Continuation of the contract shall be subject to the rules relating to establishment of the guarantee provided for in Article 11.
SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES Article 48 Settlement of disputes 48.1.
The special conditions shall prescribe: (a) the procedure for the amicable settlement of disputes; (b) the time limits within which the amicable settlement procedure may be invoked after the time that the dispute is notified to the other party and the maximum time limit within which such settlement may be reached, which may not exceed 120 days from the commencement of the adopted procedure; (c) the time limits for responding in writing to a request for amicable settlement or to other requests permitted during the course of that procedure and the consequences of failure to comply with those time limits. 48.3.
The parties may agree to the settlement of the dispute by conciliation within a specific time limit by a third party after the amicable settlement procedure adopted has failed. 48.4.
The law of the contract shall be the law of the State of the contracting authority unless otherwise stated in the special conditions. 2.2.
In all matters which are not covered by these general conditions, the law of the contract shall apply. 2.3.
Article 3 Order of precedence of contract documents Unless otherwise stipulated in the contract, the order of precedence of the contract documents shall be as stated in the special conditions.
Article 5 Supervisor and supervisor's representative 5.1.
The supervisor shall carry out the duties specified in the contract.
Except as expressly stated in the contract, the supervisor shall not have authority to relieve the consultant of any of his obligations under the contract. 5.2.
Any such delegation, revocation or replacement shall be in writing and shall not take effect until a copy thereof has been delivered to the consultant. 5.3.
Any communication given by the supervisor's representative to the consultant in accordance with the terms of such delegation shall have the same effect as though it had been given by the supervisor himself, provided that: (a) any failure on the part of the supervisor's representative to disapprove any report or part of the services shall not prejudice the authority of the supervisor to disapprove such report or services and to give the instructions necessary for the rectification thereof; (b) the supervisor shall be at liberty to reverse or vary the content of such communication. 5.4.
Article 6 Assignment 6.1.
An assignment shall be valid only if it is a written agreement by which the consultant transfers his contract, or part of thereof to a third party. 6.2.
The consultant shall not, without the prior written consent of the contracting authority, assign the contract or any part thereof, or any benefit or interest thereunder, except in the following cases: (a) by a charge in favour of the consultant's bankers of any monies due or to become due under the contract; or (b) by assignment to the consultant's insurers of the consultant's right to obtain relief against any other person liable in cases where the insurers have discharged the consultant's loss or liability. 6.3.
For the purpose of Article 6.2, the approval of an assignment by the contracting authority shall not relieve the consultant of his obligations for the part of the contract already performed or the part not assigned. 6.4.
If the consultant has assigned his contract without authorization, the contracting authority may, without giving formal notice thereof, apply as of right the sanctions for breach of contract provided for in Articles 40 and 41. 6.5.
Assignees must satisfy the eligibility criteria applicable for the award of the contract.
Article 7 Subcontracting 7.1.
The consultant shall not subcontract to nor engage another independent consultant to perform any part of the services without the prior written authorization of the contracting authority.
The contracting authority shall, with due regard to the provisions of Article 4.3, within 30 days of receipt of the notification, notify the consultant of his decision, stating reasons, should he withhold such authorization. 7.3.
In the selection of subcontractors and/or other independent consultants, preference shall be given to natural persons, companies or firms of the State of the contracting authority capable of providing the services required on equivalent terms. 7.4.
Subcontractors and/or independent consultants must satisfy the eligibility criteria applicable for the award of the contract. 7.5.
The approval by the contracting authority of the subcontracting of any part of the contract or of the engagement by the consultant of other independent consultants or subcontractors to perform any part of the services shall not relieve the consultant of any of his obligations under the contract. 7.7.
If the consultant enters into a subcontract or engages another independent consultant without prior approval, the contracting authority may, without giving formal notice thereof, apply as of right the sanctions for breach of contract provided for in Articles 40 and 41.
OBLIGATIONS OF THE CONTRACTING AUTHORITY Article 8 Supply of information 8.1.
Article 9 Assistance with local regulations 9.1.
OBLIGATIONS OF THE CONSULTANT Article 10 General obligations 10.1.
The consultant shall perform the services with due care, efficiency and diligence, in accordance with the best professional practices and in compliance with these general conditions, the terms of reference and the instructions of the supervisor. 10.3.
The consultant shall comply with administrative orders given by the supervisor.
Where the consultant considers that the requirements of an administrative order go beyond the authority of the supervisor or of the scope of the contract, he shall, on pain of being time-barred, give notice, with reasons, to the supervisor within 30 days after receipt thereof.
If the consultant or any of his subcontractors, independent consultants, agents or servants offers to give or agrees to offer or to give or gives to any person, any bribe, gift, gratuity or commission as an inducement or reward for doing or forbearing to do any act in relation to the contract or any other contract with the contracting authority, or for showing favour or disfavour to any person in relation to the contract or any other contract with the contracting authority, then the contracting authority may, without prejudice to any accrued rights of the consultant under the contract, terminate the contract, in which case the provisions of Articles 40 and 41 shall apply. 10.5.
The composition or the constitution of the joint venture or consortium shall not be altered without the prior consent in writing of the contracting authority.
Article 11 Code of conduct 11.1.
He shall, in particular, refrain from making any public statements concerning the project or the services without the prior approval of the contracting authority, and from engaging in any activity which conflicts with his obligations towards the contracting authority under the contract.
He shall not commit the contracting authority in any way whatsoever without its prior consent in writing, and shall, where appropriate, make this obligation clear to third parties. 11.2.
For the duration of the contract, the consultant and his employees shall respect the political, cultural and religious practices prevailing in the State of the contracting authority. 11.3.
The remuneration of the consultant under the contract shall constitute his only remuneration in connection with the contract and neither he nor his personnel shall accept any commission, discount, allowance, indirect payment or other consideration in connection with, or in relation to, or in discharge of, his obligations under the contract. 11.4.
Article 12 Independence 12.1.
Article 13 Specifications and designs 13.1.
The consultant may retain copies of such documents and data, but shall not use them for purposes unrelated to his contract without prior written approval of the contracting authority. 16.2.
NATURE OF THE SERVICES Article 17 The scope of the services 17.1.
The consultant shall perform the services under the contract in accordance with the terms of reference. 17.2.
The contract may consist of one or more of the following missions: - project identification and definition study, - economic or market study, - pre-feasibility and/or feasibility study, - project execution study (preliminary or detailed design, and where appropriate final design for execution, preparation of tender dossier), - supervision of the project, - management of the execution of the project, - provision of personnel, - other froms of technical assistance. 17.3.
Where the contract is for management of the execution of the project, the consultant shall assume, in accordance with the laws of the State of the contracting authority and, subject to the supervisor's authority, all the duties of management inherent in supervising the execution of a project. 17.6.
Such personnel shall be under the direct authority of the supervisor. 18.2.
The services shall be carried out by the personnel specified in the contract for the periods of time indicated therein.
Article 19 Staff and equipment 19.1.
References and/or curriculum vitae of each member of the consultant's staff to be employed under the contract shall be submitted to the contracting authority for approval either with the consultant's tender in the case of a tender procedure or, in other cases, before the conclusion of the contract. 19.3.
The contracting authority shall notify his approval or refusal within 30 days of the appointment of the consultant or the submission under Article 19.2, as the case may be. 19.4.
Save as otherwise provided in the special conditions, the staff of the consultant shall reside close to their place of work.
The consultant shall: (a) forward to the supervisor within 15 days of the award of the contract, the timetable proposed for placement of the staff, specification of their duties and a list of the equipment he intends to use for the services; (b) inform the supervisor in sufficient time of the date of arrival and departure of each member of staff; (c) submit to the supervisor for his approval a timely request for any change of staff and for any alteration to the original timetable or change of equipment. 19.7.
Article 20 Trainees 20.1.
The consultant shall provide training for the duration of the contract for trainees assigned to him by the contracting authority under the terms of the contract. 20.2.
The consultant may on reasoned request in writing obtain the replacement of any trainee whose work or conduct is unsatisfactory. 20.3.
Unless otherwise provided in the contract, remuneration for trainees and travel, accommodation and all other expenses incurred by the trainees, shall be borne by the contracting authority. 20.4.
The form of such reports and the procedure for presenting them shall be as laid down in the special conditions.
The contracting authority shall fix the date on which performance of the contract is to commence, and advise the consultant either in the notification of award of contract or by administrative order issued by the supervisor. 21.2.
The date for commencing performance shall be not later than 180 days following notification of award of the contract unless agreed otherwise by the parties. 21.3.
Article 22 Period of performance 22.1.
The remuneration for the new period shall be fixed by the principles established in the contract. 22.4.
Article 23 Extension of period of performance 23.1.
The consultant shall, within 15 days of becoming aware that delay may occur, notify the supervisor of his intention to make a request for extension of the period of performance to which he considers himself entitled and shall within 60 days thereafter, except where otherwise agreed between the consultant and supervisor, deliver to the supervisor full and detailed particulars of the request, in order that such request may be investigated at the time. 23.3.
Article 24 Delays in performance 24.1.
If the consultant does not perform the services within the period(s) of performance specified in the contract, the contracting authority shall, without formal notice and without prejudice to his other remedies under the contract, be entitled to liquidated damages for every day, or part thereof, which shall elapse between the end of the period specified for performance or extended period of performance under Article 23 and the actual date of completion, at the rate and up to the maximum amount specified in the special conditions. 24.2.
If the period of suspension exceeds 180 days and the suspension is not due to the consultant's default, the consultant may, by notice to the supervisor, request permission to resume performance of the services within 30 days or terminate the contract.
Article 26 Variations 26.1.
N° order for a variation shall have the effect of invalidating the contract, but the financial effect, if any, of all such variations shall be valued in accordance with Articles 26.5 and 26.7. 26.2.
N° variation shall be made except by administrative order, provided that: (a) if for any reason, the supervisor shall find it necessary to give an order orally, he shall as soon as possible thereafter confirm the order by an administrative order; (b) if the consultant shall confirm in writing an oral order given for the purpose of Article 26.2 (a) and the confirmation shall not be contradicted in writing forthwith by the supervisor, an administrative order shall be deemed to have been issued for the variation. 26.3.
As soon as possible, after receiving such notice, the consultant shall submit to the supervisor a proposal containing: (a) a description of the service to be performed or the measures to be taken and a programme for execution; and (b) any necessary modifications to the programme of performance or to any of the consultant's obligations under the contract; and (c) any adjustment to the contract price in accordance with the rules as set out in Article 26. 26.4.
If the supervisor decides that the variation shall be carried out he shall issue the administrative order stating that the variation shall be carried out at the prices and under the conditions given in the consultant's submission referred to in Article 26.3 or as modified by the supervisor in accordance with Article 26.5. 26.5.
The prices for all variations ordered by the supervisor in accordance with Articles 26.2 and 26.4 shall be ascertained by the supervisor in accordance with the following principles: (a) where the task is of similar character and executed under similar conditions to an item priced in the price schedule it shall be valued at such rates and prices contained therein; (b) where the task is not of a similar character or is not executed under similar conditions, the rates and prices in the contract shall be used as the basis for valuation so far as is reasonable, failing which, a fair valuation shall be made by the supervisor; (c) if the nature or amount of any variation relative to the nature or amount of the whole of the contract or to any part thereof shall be such that in the opinion of the supervisor any rate or price contained in the contract for any task is by reason of such variation rendered unreasonable, then the supervisor shall fix such rate or price as in the circumstances he shall think reasonable and proper; (d) where a variation is necessitated by default or breach of contract by the consultant, any additional cost attributable to such variation shall be borne by the consultant. 26.6.
Where on provisional acceptance, an increase or reduction in the total value of the services required under the contract resulting from an administrative order, or from some other circumstance which is not caused by the consultant's default, exceeds 15 % of the contract price, the supervisor shall, after consultation with the contracting authority and the consultant determine any additions to or reduction from the contract price as a consequence of the application of Article 26.5.
The sum so determined shall be based on the amount by which the increase or decrease in value of the service exceeds 15 %.
Article 27 Working hours The days and hours of work of the consultant in the State of the contracting authority shall be fixed on the basis of the laws, regulations and customs of the State of the contracting authority and the requirements of the services.
Article 28 Leave entitlement 28.1.
Where the contract provides for annual leave, the consultant shall, during the period of performance of the contract, be entitled to take annual leave on the terms laid out in Article 28. 28.2.
Article 30 Records 30.1.
The consultant shall keep accurate and systematic records and accounts in respect of the services in such form and detail as is customary in the profession and as shall be sufficient to establish accurately that the costs and expenditures which are referred to in Article 35 have been duly incurred for the performance of the services. 30.2.
The report referred to in Article 31.1 shall be forwarded to the supervisor in the number of copies stated in the special conditions, not later than 60 days after the completion of the services by the consultant.
Such report shall not bind the contracting authority. 31.3.
Where the contract is performed in phases, the execution of each phase shall give rise to the preparation of a report by the consultant, save as otherwise provided in the special conditions. 31.4.
Article 32 Approval of reports and documents 32.1.
The contracting authority shall, within the time limits laid down in the special conditions, notify the consultant of his decision concerning the documents or reports forwarded to him, giving reasons should he reject the reports or documents, or request amendments. 32.3.
PAYMENTS Article 33 General provisions 33.1.
The currency or currencies of payments shall be as stated in the contract. 33.2.
Article 34 Advances 34.1.
Subject to the provisions of the special conditions, the total amount of the advances shall not exceed 20 % of the original contract price. 34.3.
The advance guarantee provided for in Article 34 shall be released as and when advances are reimbursed. 34.8.
Article 35 Payment procedure 35.1.
The consultant shall be entitled to interim payments or to the payment of the final balance in accordance with the procedures, schedules and time limits stipulated in the contract as and when the services are provided and accepted. 35.2.
The amount of an interim payment shall not exceed 90 % of the value of the services to which it relates; the remaining 10 % thus withheld shall be paid as a final balance. 35.5.
The frequency of interim payments shall be as laid down in the special conditions.
Within 30 days of receipt of the said application for interim payment, it shall be approved or amended in such manner that, in the supervisor's opinion, the application reflects the amount due to the consultant in accordance with the contract.
The supervisor may, by an interim payment certificate, make any corrections or modifications to any previous certificate issued by him and shall have power to modify the valuation in or withhold the issue of any interim payment certificate if the services or any part thereof are not being carried out to his satisfaction. 35.10.
Payment of the final balance shall be subject to performance by the consultant of all his obligations relating to the execution of all phases or parts of the services and to the approval by the contracting authority of the final phase or part of the services.
Any amount which the contracting authority has paid, or caused to be paid, in accordance with Article 35 in excess of the consultant's entitlement under the contract, shall be reimbursed by the consultant to the contracting authority within 30 days after receipt by the consultant of notice thereof. 35.11.
Article 36 Travel and transport 36.1.
Article 37 Revision of prices 37.1.
Unless otherwise stipulated in the special conditions, and except as provided in Article 37.4, contracts shall be at fixed prices which shall not be revised. 37.2.
Where the prices may be revised under the contract, such revision shall take into account variation in the prices of significant local or external elements which served as a basis for the calculation of the tender price, such as manpower and other services.
The detailed rules for the revision shall be as laid down in the special conditions. 37.3.
Prices contained in the consultant's tender shall be deemed: (a) to have been arrived at on the basis of the conditions in force 30 days prior to the latest date fixed for the submission of tenders, or in the case of direct agreement contracts, on the date of the contract; and (b) to have taken account of the legislation and the relevant tax arrangements applicable at the reference date fixed in Article 37.3 (a). 37.4.
In the event of changes to or introduction of any national or State statute, ordinance, decree, or other law, or any regulation or by-law of any local or other public authority, after the date stated in Article 37.3 which causes a change in the contractual relationship between parties to the contract, the contracting authority and the consultant shall consult on how best to proceed further under the contract, and may as a result of such consultation decide: (a) to modify the contract; (b) on payment of compensation for the resulting imbalance by one party to the other; or (c) to terminate the contract by mutual agreement. 37.5.
In the event of a delay in the performance of the services for which the consultant is responsible or at the end of the period of performance, revised as necessary in accordance with the contract, there shall be no further revision of prices within the 30 days before completion of the services except for the application of new price indexation, if this is to the benefit of the contracting authority.
Article 38 Delayed payments 38.1.
Payment to the consultant of the amounts due under each of the interim payment certificates, and the certificate for the final balance issued by the supervisor shall be made by the contracting authority within 90 days of such certificate being delivered to the contracting authority.
If the period laid down for payment has been exceeded, the consultant shall qualify for interest calculated pro rata on the basis of the number of days delay at the rate specified in the special conditions, subject to a maximum period also specified therein.
The consultant shall be entitled to such payment without formal notice and without prejudice to any other right or remedy under the contract.
In the case of the final statement of account, the interest for the delayed payment shall be calculated on a daily basis at the rate specified in the special conditions. 38.2.
Any default in payment of more than 120 days from the expiry of the period laid down in Article 38.1 shall entitle the consultant either not to perform the contract or to terminate it.
In the event of a legally binding attachment of the property of the consultant affecting payments due to him under the contract and without prejudice to the time limit laid down in Article 38, the contracting authority shall have 30 days, starting from the day when it receives notification of the definitive lifting of the obstacle to payment, to resume payments to the consultant.
BREACH OF CONTRACT AND TERMINATION Article 40 Breach of contract 40.1.
Where a breach of contract occurs, the party injured by the breach shall be entitled to the following remedies: (a) damages; and/or (b) termination of the contract. 40.3.
In any case where the contracting authority is entitled to damages, it may deduct such damages from any sums due to the consultant or from the appropriate guarantee. 40.5.
Article 41 Termination by the contracting authority 41.1.
The contracting authority may, at any time and with immediate effect, terminate the contract, except as provided for in Article 41.2. 41.2.
Except as otherwise provided in these general conditions, the contracting authroity may, after giving seven days notice to the consultant, terminate the contract in any of the following cases where: (a) the consultant fails to carry out the services substantially in accordance with the contract; (b) the consultant continues to default for a period of 14 days after the contracting authority has given notice to him of suspension of payments under Article 35.11; (c) the consultant fails to comply within a reasonable time with the notice given by the supervisor requiring him to make good the neglect or failure to perform his obligations under the contract which seriously affects the proper and timely performance of the services; (d) the consultant refuses or neglects to carry out administrative orders given by the supervisor; (e) the consultant assigns the contract or subcontracts without the authorization of the contracting authority; (f) the consultant becomes bankrupt or insolvent, or has a receiving order made against him, or compounds with his creditors, or carries on business under a receiver, trustee or manager for the benefit of his creditors, or goes into liquidation; (g) any adverse final judgment is made in respect of an offence affecting the professional conduct of the consultant; (h) any other legal disability hindering performance of the contract occurs; (i) any organizational modification occurs involving a change in the legal personality, nature or control of the consultant, unless such modification is recorded in an endorsement to the contract; (j) the consultant fails to maintain his independence in accordance with Article 12.1; (k) the consultant fails to provide the required guarantees or insurance, or if the person providing the earlier guarantee or insurance is not able to abide by his commitments. 41.3.
Termination shall be without prejudice to any other rights or powers under the contract of the contracting authority and the consultant.
The contracting authority may, thereafter, complete the services itself, or conclude any other contract with a third party, for the account of the consultant.
The consultant's liability for delay in completion shall immediately cease when the contracting authority terminates the contracts without prejudice to any liability thereunder that may have already been incurred. 41.4.
The supervisor shall, as soon as is possible after termination, certify the value of the services and all sums due to the consultant as at the date of termination. 41.6.
The contracting authority shall not be obliged to make any further payments to the consultant until the services are completed, whereupon the contracting authority shall be entitled to recover from the consultant the extra costs, if any, of completing the services, or shall pay any balance due to the consultant. 41.7.
If the contracting authority terminates the contract, it shall be entitled to recover from the consultant any loss it has suffered up to the maximum amount stated in the contract.
If no maximum amount is stated, the contracting authority shall, without prejudice to its other remedies under the contract, be entitled to recover that part of the contract price which is attributable to that part of the services which has not, by reason of the consultant's failure, been satisfactorily completed. 41.8.
Article 42 Termination by the consultant 42.1.
The consultant may, after giving 14 days notice to the contracting authority, terminate the contract if the contracting authority: (a) fails to pay the consultant the amounts due under any certificate of the supervisor after the expiry of the time limit stated in Article 38.2; or (b) consistently fails to meet his obligations after repeated reminders; or (c) suspends the progress of the services or any part thereof for more than 180 days for reasons not specified in the contract, or not due to the consultant's default. 42.2.
Such termination shall be without prejudice to any other rights of the contracting authority or the consultant acquired under the contract. 42.3.
Neither party shall be considered to be in default or in breach of his obligations under the contract if the performance of such obligations is prevented by any circumstances of force majeure which arise after the date of notification of the award or the date when the contract becomes effective, whichever is the earlier. 43.2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Articles 24 and 41, the consultant shall not be liable for liquidated damages or termination for default if, and to the extent that, his delay in performance or other failure to perform his obligations under the contract is the result of an event of force majeure.
The contracting authority shall similarly not be liable, notwithstanding the provisions of Articles 38 and 42, to payment of interest on delayed payments, for non-performance or for termination by the consultant for default, if, and to the extent that, the contracting authority's delay or other failure to perform its obligations is the result of force majeure. 43.4.
If either party considers that any circumstances of force majeure have occurred which may affect performance of his obligations he shall promptly notify the other party and the supervisor giving details of the nature, the probable duration and likely effect of the circumstances.
Unless otherwise directed by the supervisor in writting, the consultant shall continue to perform his obligations under the contract as far as is reasonably practicable, and shall seek all reasonable alternative means for performance of his obligations which are not prevented by the force majeure event.
The consultant shall not put into effect such alternative means unless directed so to do by the supervisor. 43.5.
If the consultant incurs additional costs in complying with the supervisor's directions or using alternative means under Article 43.4 the amount thereof shall be certified by the supervisor. 43.6.
If circumstances of force majeure have occurred and persist for a period of 180 days then, notwithstanding any extension of the period of performance that the consultant may by reason thereof have been granted, either party shall be entitled to serve upon the other 30 days' notice to terminate the contract.
If at the expiry of the period of 30 days the situation of force majeure persists, the contract shall terminate and in consequence thereof, the parties shall be released from further performance of the contract.
Article 44 Decease 44.1.
The decision of the contracting authority shall be notified to those concerned within 30 days of receipt of such proposal. 44.2.
Such persons shall be jointly and severally liable, or as otherwise stated in the special conditions, for the proper performance of the contract to the same extent as the consultant.
Continuation of the contract shall be subject to the rules relating to establishment of any guarantee provided for in these conditions.
SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES Article 45 Settlement of disputes 45.1.
The parties may agree to the settlement of the dispute by conciliation within a specific time limit by a third party after the amicable settlement procedure adopted has failed. 45.4.
INTRODUCTION Article 1 - Scope of application .......... 97 Article 2 - Definitions .......... 97 Article 3 - Notice and calculation of time .......... 97 Article 4 - Exhaustion of internal administrative procedures .......... 97 Article 5 - Conciliation .......... 97 II.
THE TRIBUNAL Article 6 - Nationality of arbitrators .......... 98 Article 7 - Number of arbitrators .......... 98 Article 8 - Appointment of sole arbitrator .......... 98 Article 9 - Appointment of three arbitrators .......... 99 Article 10 - Appointments by the appointing authority .......... 99 Article 11 - Challenge of arbitrators .......... 100 Article 12 - Replacement of arbitrator .......... 100 III.
THE ARBITRATION PROCEEDINGS Article 13 - General provisions .......... 100 Article 14 - Applicable law and procedural rules .......... 101 Article 15 - Language of the proceedings .......... 101 Article 16 - Venue of the proceedings .......... 101 Article 17 - Representation and assistance .......... 101 Article 18 - Commencement of arbitration proceedings .......... 101 Article 19 - Statement of claim .......... 102 Article 20 - Statement of defence .......... 102 Article 21 - Amendments to the claim or defence .......... 102 Article 22 - Pleas to the jurisdiction of the tribunal .......... 102 Article 23 - Further written statements .......... 103 Article 24 - Time limits .......... 103 Article 25 - Evidence .......... 103 Article 26 - Oral proceedings .......... 103 Article 27 - Interim measures of protection .......... 103 Article 28 - Experts .......... 104 Article 29 - Default .......... 104 Article 30 - Closure of hearings .......... 104 Article 31 - Waiver of rules .......... 104 IV.
THE AWARD Article 32 - Decisions .......... 104 Article 33 - Time, scope, form and effect of the award .......... 105 Article 34 - Enforcement of the award .......... 105 Article 35 - Settlement or other grounds for termination .......... 105 Article 36 - Interpretation of the award .......... 105 Article 37 - Correction of the award .......... 106 Article 38 - Additional award .......... 106 Article 39 - Fees .......... 106 Article 40 - Costs .......... 106 Article 41 - Deposit of costs .......... 107 I - INTRODUCTION Article 1 Scope of application Disputes relating to a contract financed by the European Development Fund (EDF) which, pursuant to the provisions of the general conditions and the special conditions governing the contract, may be settled by conciliation or by arbitration shall be settled in accordance with these procedural rules.
A notice shall be deemed to have been received on the day it is so delivered. 3.2.
Recourse to administrative proccedings shall be deemed to have been exhausted if no final decision has been issued by the administrative agency within 120 days of the receipt of the initial application for settlement by it. 4.2.
In cases where recourse to administrative procedures by an applicant is, due to the absence of such procedures in the OCT concerned, not possible, a dispute may be referred to arbitration under these rules only after the applicant has given notice of this compliant to the other party, and no meaningful steps have been taken by that other party to remedy or correct the cause of complaint within 120 days after the receipt of the notice.
Where the conciliation is to be conducted by a sole conciliator, the parties to the dispute shall agree on the conciliator.
Where the conciliation is to be conducted by a conciliation committee, each of the parties to the dispute shall nominate one of the members of the committee.
The party making a request for conciliation shall notify the other party of the request.
The request shall also contain the name and address of the person proposed or nominated as a conciliator. 5.6.
The reply shall also contain the name and address of the person proposed or nominated by the other party as a conciliator. 5.7.
Within 30 days of the receipt of the reply, the members of the conciliation committee selected by the parties shall nominate the chairman. 5.8.
The record of the settlement so signed by the parties shall be binding upon them. 5.11.
Copies of the record of settlement so signed shall be given to the parties. 5.12.
Such agreement must be reached by the parties within 15 days after receipt by the respondent of the notics commencing the arbitration proceedings as provided for in Article 18.
Article 8 Appointment of sole arbitrator 8.1.
If a sole arbitrator is to be appointed, the parties shall agree on that arbitrator or upon the appointing authority for making the appointment thereof within 60 days after the commencement of the arbitration proceedings as laid down in Article 18. 8.2.
Where: (a) the parties are unable to agree either on the arbitrator or on the appointing authority within the specified 60 days; or (b) the appointing authority agreed by the parties refuses to act, or fails to appoint the arbitrator, within 60 days of receipt of the parties' request therefore, either party may request the most senior in rank from amongst the judges of the International Court of Justice at the Hague who are nationals of the OCT and the Member States to exercise the powers of the appointing authority.
Article 9 Appointment of three arbitrators 9.1.
The appointment by each party of an arbitrator shall be made within 60 days from the date of the agreement between the parties that the tribunal be constitued by three arbitrators, or the date when the constitution of the tribunal by a sole arbitrator was, in terms of Article 7.1, excluded. 9.3.
If: (a) within 30 days after the appointment by each party of his arbitrator, the two appointed arbitrators have not chosen the third arbitrator; or (b) within 30 days after the receipt of the notification of the appointment by one party of an arbitrator the other party has not notified the first party of the arbitrator he has appointed, the required arbitrator shall upon request by either party, be appointed by the appointing authority. 9.4.
Article 10 Appointments by the appointing authority 10.1.
When an appointing authority is requested to appoint an arbitrator, the party which makes the request shall send to the appointing authority a copy of the notice of arbitration specified in Article 18.1 and a copy of the contract under or in connection with which the dispute has arisen.
In making the appointment, the appointing authority shall: (a) have regard to such considerations as are likely to secure the appointment of an independent and impartial arbitrator of a nationality other than the nationalities of the parties, and of high moral standing, who has a recognized competence in the field of law, technical knowledge or finance applicable to the matters in dispute; and (b) unless both parties agree otherwise, or the appointing authority decides in his discretion that the procedure is not appropriate for the particular case, use the following list procedure: (i) the appointing authority shall communicate to both parties an identical list containing at least three names of persons qualified for appointment as arbitrators in terms of Articles 6.1 and 10.3 (a); i(ii) within 30 days after the receipt of this list, each party may return the list to the appointing authority after deleting the name or names to which he objects, and numbering the remaining names on the list in the order of his preference.
Article 11 Challenge of arbitrators 11.1.
Where a challenge made by one party is agreed by the other party, or where the challenged arbitrator withdraws from office, the authority of that arbitrator in the arbitration proceedings shall forthwith terminate.
If the other party does not agree to the challenge, or if the challenged arbitrator does not withdraw, a decision on the challenge shall be made as follows: (a) where the appointment of the arbitrator was made by an appointing authority, by that authority; (b) where the appointment of the arbitrator was not made by an appointing authority, by the other members of the tribunal, if there are such others; (c) in all other cases, or in case of disagreement between the other members of the tribunal, by an appointing authority designated or to be designated in accordance with the procedure provided in Article 9.4.
Article 12 Replacement of arbitrator 12.1.
In the following cases, a substitute arbitrator shall be appointed in accordance with the procedure laid down in Articles 8, 9 and 10 which is applicable to the appointment of the particular arbitrator being replaced: (a) a challenge to an arbitrator has been agreed to by the other party; or (b) a challenged arbitrator has withdrawn from office; or (c) notwithstanding the absence of agreement of the other party, or a refusal by the challenged arbitrator to withdraw, a challenge to an arbitrator is sustained; or (d) an arbitrator dies during the course of the arbitration proceedings; or (e) for any other reason, an arbitrator fails to act or it becomes impossible de jure or de facto for him to perform his functions. 12.2.
In the absence of such a request, the tribunal shall decide whether to hold such hearings or whether the proceedings shall be conducted on the basis of documents and other materials. 13.4.
N° such document or information may be used in support of a party's case unless there is proof that it has been communicated to the other party.
Article 14 Applicable law and procedural rules 14.1.
In all cases, the tribunal shall decide in accordance with the terms of the contract, and may take into account the usages of the trade applicable to the transaction. 14.2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Articles 5.1 and 14.1, if the parties expressly so authorize the tribunal in the course of the arbitration proceedings, it shall decide as amicable compositor or ex aequo et bono. 14.4.
Article 15 Language of the proceedings 15.1.
Article 16 Venue of the proceedings 16.1.
However, the tribunal may, with the agreement of the parties and for good cause, decide to conduct the arbitration in some other place.
Article 17 Representation and assistance The parties may be represented and/or assisted by persons of their choice.
Article 18 Commencement of arbitration proceedings 18.1.
Such notice shall be time-barred unless it is given not later than 90 days after the receipt of the decision closing the final administrative proceedings taken in the OCT concerned, or, where no such administrative procedures are available, not later than 90 days after the expiry of the 120 days provided for in Article 4.2 for the remedy of a complaint notified to the other party. 18.2.
Arbitration proceedings shall be deemed to commence on the date on which the notice of arbitration is received by the respondent. 18.3.
The notice of arbitration may also include: (a) the name of the person and/or the authority proposed for appointment as a sole arbitrator and/or appointing authority referred to in Article 8.1; (b) the notification of the appointment by the claimant of an arbitrator referred to in Article 9.1; (c) the statement of claim referred to in Article 19.
The claiment shall either annex to his statement of claim all documents he deems relevant or add a reference to the documents or other evidence he will submit.
Article 20 Statement of defence 20.1.
Within a time limit to be determined by the tribunal, the respondent shall communicate his statement of defence in writing to the claimant and to each of the arbitrators. 20.2.
The statement of defence shall reply to the particulars of the statement of claim given in compliance with Article 19.2 (b), (c) and (d).
Article 21 Amendments to the claim or defence During the course of the arbitration proceedings either party may amend or supplement his claim or defence unless the tribunal considers it inappropriate to allow such amendment having regard to the delay in making it or the undue harm that it would cause to the other party.
Article 22 Pleas to the jurisdiction of the tribunal 22.1.
This provision shall also apply to new claims and counter-claims admitted in the course of the proceedings. 22.4.
Article 23 Further written statements The tribunal shall decide which further written statements, in addition to the statement of claim and the statement of defence, shall be required from the parties or may be presented by them and, if so, the manner in which they shall be presented, and shall fix the time limits for communicating such statements.
Article 24 Time limits The time limits fixed by the tribunal for the communication of written statements (including the statement of claim and statement of defence) shall not, in each case, exceed 45 days.
Article 25 Evidence 25.1.
Article 26 Oral proceedings 26.1.
The tribunal may require the retirement of any witness or witnesses during the testimony of other witnesses.
The tribunal is free to determine the manner in which witnesses are examined, without prejudice to the right of each party, at its request, to question witnesses presented by the other party. 26.5.
Article 29 Default 29.1.
If, within the time limit fixed by the tribunal, the claimant has failed to communicate his statement of claim without showing sufficient cause for such failure, the tribunal shall issue an order for the termination of the proceedings.
If, within the time limit fixed by the tribunal, the respondent has failed to communicate his statement of defence without showing sufficient cause for such failure, the tribunal shall, after allowing for the particular constraints applying to the respondent, order that the proceedings continue and may make an award even if a defence has by then not been submitted. 29.2.
The tribunal may inquire of the parties if they have any further evidence to offer or witnesses to be heard or submissions to make and, if there are none, it may declare the hearing closed. 30.2.
IV - THE AWARD Article 32 Decisions 32.1.
The arbitration award shall be made as soon as possible after the hearing or receipt of evidence of the material which the parties wish to put before the tribunal. 33.2.
The award may be made public only with the consent of both parties. 33.7.
Copies of the award signed and certified by the arbitrators shall be communicated to the parties by the tribunal.
Article 34 Enforcement of the award 34.1.
Article 35 Settlement or other grounds for termination 35.1.
If, before the award is made, the continuation of the proceedings becomes unnecessary or impossible for any reason other than settlement under Article 35.1, the tribunal shall inform the parties that unless any objection is received within 30 days, it will issue an order terminating the proceedings.
Should either party object within the said 30 days, the tribunal shall not issue such an order until it has heard the parties and determined that there are no justifiable grounds for objection. 35.3.
Article 36 Interpretation of the award 36.1.
Where a new issue is discovered after the time limit provided has expired, the 60 days shall run from the date the new issue is discovered, provided that the maximum time limit for a request based on the discovery of a new issue shall not exceed 120 days from the date of the award. 36.2.
The interpretation shall be given in writing as soon as possible after the receipt of the request.
Article 37 Correction of the award 37.1.
Within 60 days after the receipt of the award, either party, with notice to the other party, may request the tribunal to correct in the award any errors in computation, any clerical or typographical errors, or any errors of a similar nature.
The tribunal may within 30 days after the communication of the award make such corrections on its own initiative. 37.2.
Article 38 Additional award 38.1.
Within 60 days after the receipt of the award, either party, with notice to the other party, may request the tribunal to make an additional award as to claims presented in the proceedings but omitted from the award. 38.2.
Article 39 Fees 39.1.
The fees of the tribunal shall be reasonable in amount, taking into account the complexity of the subject matter, the time spent by the arbitrators and any other relevant circumstances of the case. 39.2.
If an appointing authority has been agreed upon by the parties or designated by these rules, and if that authority has issued a schedule of fees for arbitrators in international cases which it administers, the tribunal in fixing its fees shall take that schedule of fees into account to the extent that it considers appropriate in the circumstances of the case. 39.3.
Article 40 Costs 40.1.
However, the tribunal may apportion each of such costs between the parties if it determines that apportionment is reasonable, taking into account the circumstances of the case. 40.3.
With respect to the costs of legal representation and assistance referred to in Article 40.1 (e), the tribunal, taking into account the circumstances of the case, shall be free to determine which party shall bear such costs or may apportion such costs between the parties if it determines that apportionment is reasonable. 40.4.
When the tribunal issues an order for the termination of the proceedings or makes an award on the agreed terms, it shall fix the costs of arbitration referred to in Article 40.1 in the text of that order of award. 40.5.
N° additional fees may be charged by a tribunal for interpretation or correction or completion of its award under Articles 36 to 38.
Article 41 Deposit of costs 41.1.
During the course of the arbitration proceedings, the tribunal may request supplementary deposits from the parties for valid reasons. 41.3.
If an appointing authority has been agreed upon by the parties or designated by these rules, and when a party so requests and the appointing authority consents to perform the function, the tribunal shall fix the amounts of any deposits or supplementary deposits only after consultation with the appointing authority which may make comments to the tribunal which it deems appropriate concerning the amount of such deposits and supplementary deposits. 41.4.
If the required deposits are not paid in full within 30 days after receipt of the request, the tribunal shall inform the parties in order that one or other of them may make the required payment.
