Article 19 is replaced by the following: %quot%Article 19 Selection of applications to be checked on the spot 1.
To provide the element of representativeness, the Member States shall select randomly between 20 % and 25 % of the minimum number of farmers to be subjected to on-the-spot checks as provided for in Article 18(1). 2.
A measurement tolerance may be defined by the competent authority that shall not exceed either 5 % of the agricultural parcel area or a buffer of 1,5 m applied to the perimeter of the agricultural parcel.
However, the maximum tolerance with regard to each agricultural parcel shall not, in absolute terms, exceed 1,0 ha.%quot% 4.
Articles 17, 18, 19 and 20, the first sentence of Article 21 and Article 22 shall apply where appropriate. 2.
Once a farmer has been selected for an on-the-spot check in accordance with paragraph 3, at least 80 % of the area for which he requests aid under aid schemes referred to in Article 1(1) of Regulation (EEC) No 3508/92 shall be subject to the on-the-spot check by remote sensing. 5.
Where a Member State applies the possibility to carry out on-the-spot checks by remote sensing they shall: (a) perform photo interpretation of satellite images or aerial photographs of all agricultural parcels per application to be checked in accordance with paragraph 4 with a view to recognising the ground cover and measuring the area; (b) carry out physical inspections in the field of all agricultural parcels for which photo interpretation does not make it possible to verify the accuracy of the declaration to the satisfaction of the competent authority. 6.
Ewes and goats in respect of which aid is claimed in accordance with Article 4 of Regulation (EC) No 2529/2001 may be replaced during the retention period within the limits provided for in that Article without the loss of the right to the payment of the aid applied for. 4.
Replacements pursuant to paragraph 3 shall occur within ten days following the event necessitating the replacement and shall be entered in the register not later than three days after the day of replacement.
Done at Brussels, 23 January 2004.
