The purpose of the revision was the further improvement of the quality and consistency of the body of existing IASs. (3) IAS 39 as revised in December 2003 introduced an option that permitted entities to designate irrevocably on initial recognition any financial asset or financial liability as one to be measured at fair value with gains and losses recognised in profit or loss (the full "Fair Value Option").
However, the European Central Bank (ECB), prudential supervisors represented in the Basel Committee as well as security regulators expressed concerns that an unrestricted fair value option might be used inappropriately, in particular for financial instruments relating to a company’s own liabilities. (4) The IASB recognised these concerns and therefore published an Exposure Draft on 21 April 2004 proposing an amendment to IAS 39 in order to restrict the scope of the fair value option. (5) In order to have substantive accounting guidance on financial instruments in time for application in 2005, the Commission endorsed IAS 39 with the exclusion of certain provisions relating to the full Fair Value Option and hedge accounting, by Commission Regulation (EC) No 2086/2004 of 19 November 2004 amending Regulation (EC) No 1725/2003 on the adoption of certain international accounting standards in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the insertion of IAS 39 [3].
Article 2 This Regulation shall enter into force on the third day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Done at Brussels, 15 November 2005.
The amendments relate to proposals that were contained in an Exposure Draft of Proposed Amendments to IAS 39 — The Fair Value Option published in April 2004.
An entity may use this designation only when permitted by paragraph 11A, or when doing so results in more relevant information, because either (i) it eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency (sometimes referred to as "an accounting mismatch") that would otherwise arise from measuring assets or liabilities or recognising the gains and losses on them on different bases; or (ii) a group of financial assets, financial liabilities or both is managed and its performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with a documented risk management or investment strategy, and information about the group is provided internally on that basis to the entity’s key management personnel (as defined in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures (as revised in 2003)), for example the entity’s board of directors and chief executive officer.
It should be noted that paragraphs 48, 48A, 49 and Appendix A paragraphs AG69-AG82, which set out requirements for determining a reliable measure of the fair value of a financial asset or financial liability, apply equally to all items that are measured at fair value, whether by designation or otherwise, or whose fair value is disclosed.
EMBEDDED DERIVATIVES 11A.
Notwithstanding paragraph 11, if a contract contains one or more embedded derivatives, an entity may designate the entire hybrid (combined) contract as a financial asset or financial liability at fair value through profit or loss unless: (a) the embedded derivative(s) does not significantly modify the cash flows that otherwise would be required by the contract; or (b) it is clear with little or no analysis when a similar hybrid (combined) instrument is first considered that separation of the embedded derivative(s) is prohibited, such as a prepayment option embedded in a loan that permits the holder to prepay the loan for approximately its amortised cost.
If the entity is unable to determine the fair value of the embedded derivative using this method, paragraph 12 applies and the hybrid (combined) instrument is designated as at fair value through profit or loss.
EFFECTIVE DATE AND TRANSITION Paragraph 105 is amended and paragraphs 105A-105D are added, as follows. … 105.
An entity shall apply paragraphs 11A, 48A, AG4B-AG4K, AG33A and AG33B and the 2005 amendments in paragraphs 9, 12 and 13 for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2006.
An entity that first applies paragraphs 11A, 48A, AG4B-AG4K, AG33A and AG33B and the 2005 amendments in paragraphs 9, 12 and 13 in its annual period beginning before 1 January 2006 (a) is permitted, when those new and amended paragraphs are first applied, to designate as at fair value through profit or loss any previously recognised financial asset or financial liability that then qualifies for such designation.
When the annual period begins before 1 September 2005, such designations need not be completed until 1 September 2005 and may also include financial assets and financial liabilities recognised between the beginning of that annual period and 1 September 2005.
An entity that first applies paragraphs 11A, 48A, AG4B-AG4K, AG33A and AG33B and the 2005 amendments in paragraphs 9, 12 and 13 in its annual period beginning on or after 1 January 2006 (a) shall de-designate any financial asset or financial liability previously designated as at fair value through profit or loss only if it does not qualify for such designation in accordance with those new and amended paragraphs.
An entity shall restate its comparative financial statements using the new designations in paragraph 105B or 105C provided that, in the case of a financial asset, financial liability, or group of financial assets, financial liabilities or both, designated as at fair value through profit or loss, those items or groups would have met the criteria in paragraph 9(b)(i), 9(b)(ii) or 11A at the beginning of the comparative period or, if acquired after the beginning of the comparative period, would have met the criteria in paragraph 9(b)(i), 9(b)(ii) or 11A at the date of initial recognition.
In Appendix A, paragraphs AG4B-AG4K are added, as follows. -------------------------------------------------- Appendix A Application Guidance DEFINITIONS (paragraphs 8 and 9) Designation as at Fair Value through Profit or Loss AG4B.
Paragraph 9 of this Standard allows an entity to designate a financial asset, a financial liability, or a group of financial instruments (financial assets, financial liabilities or both) as at fair value through profit or loss provided that doing so results in more relevant information.
In the case of designation as at fair value through profit or loss, paragraph 9 sets out the two circumstances when the requirement for more relevant information will be met.
In cases such as those described in the preceding paragraph, to designate, at initial recognition, the financial assets and financial liabilities not otherwise so measured as at fair value through profit or loss may eliminate or significantly reduce the measurement or recognition inconsistency and produce more relevant information.
The entity may significantly reduce the measurement inconsistency by designating at initial recognition all of the assets but only some of the liabilities (for example, individual liabilities with a combined total of CU45) as at fair value through profit or loss.
However, because designation as at fair value through profit or loss can be applied only to the whole of a financial instrument, the entity in this example must designate one or more liabilities in their entirety.
When an entity becomes a party to a hybrid (combined) instrument that contains one or more embedded derivatives, paragraph 11 requires the entity to identify any such embedded derivative, assess whether it is required to be separated from the host contract and, for those that are required to be separated, measure the derivatives at fair value at initial recognition and subsequently.
Such designation may be used whether paragraph 11 requires the embedded derivatives to be separated from the host contract or prohibits such separation.
However, paragraph 11A would not justify designating the hybrid (combined) instrument as at fair value through profit or loss in the cases set out in paragraph 11A(a) and (b) because doing so would not reduce complexity or increase reliability. [1] In this Standard, monetary amounts are denominated in "currency units" (CU) -------------------------------------------------- Appendix Amendments to other Standards The amendments in this appendix shall be applied for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2006.
Amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation Paragraph 66 is amended, as follows. 66.
IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement permits a financial asset to be designated on initial recognition as available for sale or a financial instrument (provided it meets certain criteria) to be designated as a financial asset or financial liability at fair value through profit or loss.
When the entity’s first IFRS reporting period begins before 1 September 2005, such designations need not be completed until 1 September 2005 and may also include financial assets and financial liabilities recognised between the beginning of that period and 1 September 2005.
