Article 2 The implementation of the Accession Partnership shall be examined in the Europe Agreement bodies and by the appropriate Council bodies on the basis of regular reports by the Commission to the Council.
Article 3 This Decision shall take effect on the third day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
For the Council The President G.
As provided for in Regulation (EC) No 622/98 (Article 2), the Accession Partnership was updated a first time in December 1999, and a second time in January 2002(1), taking into account further developments in Romania.
In the Commission's communication on the roadmap for Romania, it was stated that the Commission would propose a revised Accession Partnership for Romania in the light of the findings of the 2002 regular report and roadmap.
OBJECTIVES The purpose of the Accession Partnership is to set out in a single framework the priority areas for further work identified in the Commission's 2002 regular report on the progress made by Romania towards membership of the Union and the roadmap, the financial means available to help Romania implement these priorities and the conditions which will apply to that assistance.
The priorities in the Accession Partnership have been set in cooperation with the countries concerned.
Abolish the pre-market approval system for foodstuffs. - Allocate increased resources (in terms of both equipment and staff) to improve food control services. - Pursue alignment of legislation on public procurement and ensure its appropriate implementation, as well as transparency in public procurement tenders. - Screen legislation in the non-harmonised area to ensure that it is in compliance with Articles 28 to 30 of the EC Treaty and eliminate the provisions in breach of it.
Free movement of persons - Continue to align legislation on mutual recognition of professional qualifications, addressing in particular shortcomings identified in the area of mutual recognition with respect to curricula and training of nurses, doctors, dentists, midwives and pharmacists. - Align legislation with Community rules on nationality and language requirements. - Continue alignment with the acquis in the fields of equal treatment, work permits, residence permits and supplementary pensions. - Strengthen public employment services with a view to participating in the EURES network.
Freedom to provide services - Reinforce the supervision of financial services and make adequate human resources available to implement new legislation. - Improve the institutional framework of financial supervision and continue to pursue alignment of legislation, particularly in the area of securities and insurance. - Improve the prudential framework for the banking sector with regard to consolidation and capital adequacy. - Develop rules on corporate governance for the financial institutions to ensure prudent management and internal control procedures as a preventive mechanism. - Conclude the screening of Romanian law in the area of non-financial services. - Fully align data protection legislation with the acquis, with special attention paid to implementation and enforcement.
Free movement of capital - Continue to align legislation and assure its subsequent effective implementation. - Implement the provisions of the second Directive on money laundering and ensure enforcement of the European Convention on Laundering, Search, Seizure and Confiscation. - Abolish restrictions on inward direct investment concerning discriminatory provisions in sector-specific legislation including citizenship and residence requirements. - Liberalise capital movements in accordance with Romania's liberalisation table. - Adopt legislation to complete alignment with EU legislation on payment systems. - Continue to liberalise capital movements in accordance with Romania's three-stage liberalisation table. - Special attention should be paid to the correct and uniform application of the legal and institutional regime to guarantee the freedom of all capital transactions, not just at the national, but also at the regional and local levels.
Pursue own-initiative investigations and a deterrent sanctions policy. - Ensure that competition rules take precedence over any anti-competitive legislation. - In the field of State aid, upgrade expertise in order to improve the quality of State aid decisions. - Strengthen the right of competition authorities to oppose legislation under which state aid is awarded. - Improve State aid transparency, update the State aid inventory and prepare and submit annual reports to the Commission. - Improve the State aid enforcement record, in particular by: (i) ex ante control of all new aid measures to ensure full compatibility with the acquis; (ii) enforcing the competition rules with regard to non-notified aid; (iii) assessing existing aid measures in Romania under which State aid is being granted to bring them in line with the acquis and convert previously granted measures into compatible aid. - Ensure the compliance with Protocol 2 of the Europe Agreement on ECSC products.
Improve accountability and transparency in the allocation and use of healthcare resources. - Implement the national action plan for employment, taking into account the revised European employment guidelines and the priorities, commitments and recommendations identified in the joint assessment of employment policy priorities (JAP). - Continue to develop the capacity of the National Agency for Employment to implement active measures and employment programmes, strengthen its regional and local structures and ensure appropriate capacity for management of European Social Fund type projects in preparation for Structural Funds. - Continue to support social partners' capacity-building efforts, in particular with a view to their future role in the elaboration and implementation of Community employment and social policy.
Particular attention should be paid to developing capacity in new policy areas including employment and social inclusion. - Promote autonomous social dialogue, especially at the enterprise and sectoral level, in order to improve its coverage. - Complete the secondary legislation necessary for implementing the new law on social assistance and develop monitoring and control systems relating to social assistance.
Continue transposition of the energy efficiency acquis (labelling appliances, minimum efficiency standards). - Ensure compliance with Euratom requirements and procedures. - Continue to implement all recommendations contained in the 2001 Council Report on nuclear safety in the context of enlargement and its subsequent peer review status report of June 2002, with due regard to the priorities assigned in the reports. - Continue to ensure a high level of nuclear safety at the Cernavoda nuclear power plant. - Focus on strengthening the independence, resources and capabilities of the national regulatory authority for nuclear safety. - Address issues of spent nuclear fuel and nuclear waste.
Environment - Complete an overall assessment of the situation in the environment sector in order to identify gaps to be filled. - Ensure effective implementation of the acquis, including through securing the necessary financial resources, with particular emphasis on environmental impact assessment, access to information, waste management, industrial pollution and risk management, nature protection, chemical and genetically modified organisms, nuclear safety and radiation protection. - Improve the manner in which legislation is prepared by allowing for full consultation with stakeholders (including other ministries, economic operators and NGOs), and giving full consideration to the implementation requirements, including a thorough assessment of the implementation costs. - Develop implementation plans together with financing strategies, to outline the steps needed to ensure full implementation in the medium and longer term.
Effective staff training should be further developed. - Ensure the correct implementation of the provisions with regard to the treatment of irregularities under Phare, Sapard and ISPA. - Ensure the operational effectiveness and operational independence of the anti-fraud coordinating service (AFCOS), and implement effective cooperation with OLAF through this service.
Failure to respect these general conditions could lead to a decision by the Council on the suspension of financial assistance on the basis of Article 4 of Regulation (EC) No 622/98. 7.
The Europe Agreement subcommittees provide the possibility to review implementation of the Accession Partnership priorities as well as progress as regards legal approximation, implementation and enforcement.
The Phare Management Committee ensures that actions financed under all three preaccession instruments, Phare, ISPA, and Sapard, are compatible with each other as well as with the Accession Partnerships as laid down in the Coordinating Regulation (Council Regulation (EC) No 1266/99 (OJ L 161, 26.6.1999, p. 68)).
The Accession Partnership will continue to be amended as necessary in accordance with Article 2 of Regulation (EC) No 622/98. (1) Council Decision of 28 January 2002 on the principles, priorities, intermediate objectives and conditions contained in the Accession Partnership with Romania (OJ L 44, 14.2.2002, p. 82). (2) The order of presentation is that used in the 2002 regular report and roadmap. (3) See also the chapter on social policy and employment.
