It is necessary to set up a system for the comparison of their fingerprint data. (5) To this end, it is necessary to set up a system known as %quot%Eurodac%quot%, consisting of a Central Unit, to be established within the Commission and which will operate a computerised central database of fingerprint data, as well as of the electronic means of transmission between the Member States and the central database. (6) It is also necessary to require the Member States promptly to take fingerprints of every applicant for asylum and of every alien who is apprehended in connection with the irregular crossing of an external border of a Member State, if they are at least 14 years of age. (7) It is necessary to lay down precise rules on the transmission of such fingerprint data to the Central Unit, the recording of such fingerprint data and other relevant data in the central database, their storage, their comparison with other fingerprint data, the transmission of the results of such comparison and the blocking and erasure of the recorded data.
Eurodac shall consist of: (a) the Central Unit referred to in Article 3; (b) a computerised central database in which the data referred to in Article 5(1), Article 8(2) and Article 11(2) are processed for the purpose of comparing the fingerprint data of applicants for asylum and of the categories of aliens referred to in Article 8(1) and Article 11(1); (c) means of data transmission between the Member States and the central database.
Article 2 Definitions 1.
For the purposes of this Regulation: (a) %quot%the Dublin Convention%quot% means the Convention determining the State responsible for examining applications for asylum lodged in one of the Member States of the European Communities, signed at Dublin on 15 June 1990; (b) an %quot%applicant for asylum%quot% means an alien who has made an application for asylum or on whose behalf such an application has been made; (c) %quot%Member State of origin%quot% means: (i) in relation to an applicant for asylum, the Member State which transmits the personal data to the Central Unit and receives the results of the comparison; (ii) in relation to a person covered by Article 8, the Member State which transmits the personal data to the Central Unit; (iii) in relation to a person covered by Article 11, the Member State which transmits such data to the Central Unit and receives the results of the comparison; (d) %quot%refugee%quot% means a person who has been recognised as a refugee in accordance with the Geneva Convention on Refugees of 28 July 1951, as amended by the New York Protocol of 31 January 1967; (e) %quot%hit%quot% shall mean the existence of a match or matches established by the Central Unit by comparison between fingerprint data recorded in the databank and those transmitted by a Member State with regard to a person, without prejudice to the requirement that Member States shall immediately check the results of the comparison pursuant to Article 4(6). 2.
The terms defined in Article 2 of Directive 95/46/EC shall have the same meaning in this Regulation. 3.
Article 3 Central Unit 1.
Data on applicants for asylum, persons covered by Article 8 and persons covered by Article 11 which are processed at the Central Unit shall be processed on behalf of the Member State of origin under the conditions set out in this Regulation. 3.
The Central Unit shall draw up statistics on its work every quarter, indicating: (a) the number of data sets transmitted on applicants for asylum and the persons referred to in Articles 8(1) and 11(1); (b) the number of hits for applicants for asylum who have lodged an application for asylum in another Member State; (c) the number of hits for persons referred to in Article 8(1) who have subsequently lodged an application for asylum; (d) the number of hits for persons referred to in Article 11(1) who had previously lodged an application for asylum in another Member State; (e) the number of fingerprint data which the Central Unit had to request a second time from the Member States of origin because the fingerprint data originally transmitted did not lend themselves to comparison using the computerised fingerprint recognition system.
CHAPTER II APPLICANTS FOR ASYLUM Article 4 Collection, transmission and comparison of fingerprints 1.
Each Member State shall promptly take the fingerprints of all fingers of every applicant for asylum of at least 14 years of age and shall promptly transmit the data referred to in points (a) to (f) of Article 5(1) to the Central Unit.
Final identification shall be made by the Member State of origin in cooperation with the Member States concerned, pursuant to Article 15 of the Dublin Convention.
The implementing rules setting out the procedures necessary for the application of paragraphs 1 to 6 shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 22(1).
Article 7 Advance data erasure Data relating to a person who has acquired citizenship of any Member State before expiry of the period referred to in Article 6 shall be erased from the central database, in accordance with Article 15(3) as soon as the Member State of origin becomes aware that the person has acquired such citizenship.
CHAPTER III ALIENS APPREHENDED IN CONNECTION WITH THE IRREGULAR CROSSING OF AN EXTERNAL BORDER Article 8 Collection and transmission of fingerprint data 1.
Each Member State shall, in accordance with the safeguards laid down in the European Convention on Human Rights and in the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, promptly take the fingerprints of all fingers of every alien of at least 14 years of age who is apprehended by the competent control authorities in connection with the irregular crossing by land, sea or air of the border of that Member State having come from a third country and who is not turned back. 2.
The data referred to in Article 5(1)(g) and in Article 8(2) shall be recorded in the central database.
Without prejudice to Article 3(3), data transmitted to the Central Unit pursuant to Article 8(2) shall be recorded for the sole purpose of comparison with data on applicants for asylum transmitted subsequently to the Central Unit.
The Central Unit shall not compare data transmitted to it pursuant to Article 8(2) with any data previously recorded in the central database, nor with data subsequently transmitted to the Central Unit pursuant to Article 8(2). 2.
As regards the comparison of data on applicants for asylum subsequently transmitted to the Central Unit with the data referred to in paragraph 1, the procedures provided for in Article 4(3), (5) and (6) shall apply.
Article 10 Storage of data 1.
CHAPTER IV ALIENS FOUND ILLEGALLY PRESENT IN A MEMBER STATE Article 11 Comparison of fingerprint data 1.
With a view to checking whether an alien found illegally present within its territory has previously lodged an application for asylum in another Member State, each Member State may transmit to the Central Unit any fingerprint data relating to fingerprints which it may have taken of any such alien of at least 14 years of age together with the reference number used by that Member State.
As regards the comparison of fingerprint data transmitted under this Article with the fingerprint data of applicants for asylum transmitted by other Member States which have already been stored in the Central Unit, the procedures provided for in Article 4(3), (5) and (6) as well as the provisions laid down pursuant to Article 4(7) shall apply. 5.
Once the results of the comparison have been transmitted to the Member State of origin, the Central Unit shall forthwith: (a) erase the fingerprint data and other data transmitted to it under paragraph 1; and (b) destroy the media used by the Member State of origin for transmitting the data to the Central Unit, unless the Member State of origin has requested their return.
CHAPTER V RECOGNISED REFUGEES Article 12 Blocking of data 1.
Five years after Eurodac starts operations, and on the basis of reliable statistics compiled by the Central Unit on persons who have lodged an application for asylum in a Member State after having been recognised and admitted as refugees in another Member State, a decision shall be taken in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Treaty, as to whether the data relating to persons who have been recognised and admitted as refugees in a Member State should: (a) be stored in accordance with Article 6 for the purpose of the comparison provided for in Article 4(3); or (b) be erased in advance once a person has been recognised and admitted as a refugee. 3.
In the case referred to in paragraph 2(b): (a) data which have been blocked in accordance with paragraph 1 shall be erased immediately by the Central Unit; and (b) data relating to persons who are subsequently recognised and admitted as refugees shall be erased in accordance with Article 15(3), as soon as the Member State of origin becomes aware that the person has been recognised and admitted as a refugee in a Member State. 5.
CHAPTER VI DATA USE, DATA PROTECTION AND LIABILITY Article 13 Responsibility for data use 1.
The Member State of origin shall be responsible for ensuring that: (a) fingerprints are taken lawfully; (b) fingerprint data and the other data referred to in Article 5(1), Article 8(2) and Article 11(2) are lawfully transmitted to the Central Unit; (c) data are accurate and up-to-date when they are transmitted to the Central Unit; (d) without prejudice to the responsibilities of the Commission, data in the central database are lawfully recorded, stored, corrected and erased; (e) the results of fingerprint data comparisons transmitted by the Central Unit are lawfully used. 2.
In particular, the Commission shall: (a) adopt measures ensuring that persons working in the Central Unit use the data recorded in the central database only in accordance with the purpose of Eurodac as laid down in Article 1(1); (b) ensure that persons working in the Central Unit comply with all requests from Member States made pursuant to this Regulation in relation to recording, comparison, correction and erasure of data for which they are responsible; (c) take the necessary measures to ensure the security of the Central Unit in accordance with Article 14; (d) ensure that only persons authorised to work in the Central Unit have access to data recorded in the central database, without prejudice to Article 20 and the powers of the independent supervisory body which will be established under Article 286(2) of the Treaty.
Article 14 Security 1.
The Member State of origin shall take the necessary measures to: (a) prevent any unauthorised person from having access to national installations in which the Member State carries out operations in accordance with the aim of Eurodac (checks at the entrance to the installation); (b) prevent data and data media in Eurodac from being read, copied, modified or erased by unauthorised persons (control of data media); (c) guarantee that it is possible to check and establish a posteriori what data have been recorded in Eurodac, when and by whom (control of data recording); (d) prevent the unauthorised recording of data in Eurodac and any unauthorised modification or erasure of data recorded in Eurodac (control of data entry); (e) guarantee that, in using Eurodac, authorised persons have access only to data which are within their competence (control of access); (f) guarantee that it is possible to check and establish to which authorities data recorded in Eurodac may be transmitted by data transmission equipment (control of transmission); (g) prevent the unauthorised reading, copying, modification or erasure of data during both the direct transmission of data to or from the central database and the transport of data media to or from the Central Unit (control of transport). 2.
Article 15 Access to, and correction or erasure of, data recorded in Eurodac 1.
The Member State of origin shall have access to data which it has transmitted and which are recorded in the central database in accordance with the provisions of this Regulation.
No Member State may conduct searches in the data transmitted by another Member State, nor may it receive such data apart from data resulting from the comparison referred to in Article 4(5). 2.
Article 16 Keeping of records by the Central Unit 1.
Article 17 Liability 1.
Article 18 Rights of the data subject 1.
A person covered by this Regulation shall be informed by the Member State of origin of the following: (a) the identity of the controller and of his representative, if any; (b) the purpose for which the data will be processed within Eurodac; (c) the recipients of the data; (d) in relation to a person covered by Article 4 or Article 8, the obligation to have his/her fingerprints taken; (e) the existence of the right of access to, and the right to rectify, the data concerning him/her.
In relation to a person covered by Article 4 or Article 8, the information referred to in the first subparagraph shall be provided when his/her fingerprints are taken.
In each Member State any data subject may, in accordance with the laws, regulations and procedures of that State, exercise the rights provided for in Article 12 of Directive 95/46/EC.
Without prejudice to the obligation to provide other information in accordance with point (a) of Article 12 of Directive 95/46/EC, the data subject shall have the right to obtain communication of the data relating to him/her recorded in the central database and of the Member State which transmitted them to the Central Unit.
If the rights of correction and erasure are exercised in a Member State, other than that, or those, which transmitted the data, the authorities of that Member State shall contact the authorities of the Member State, or States, in question so that the latter may check the accuracy of the data and the lawfulness of their transmission and recording in the central database. 5.
The competent authorities of the Member States shall cooperate actively to enforce promptly the rights laid down in paragraphs 3, 4 and 5. 9.
In each Member State, the national supervisory authority shall assist the data subject in accordance with Article 28(4) of Directive 95/46/EC in exercising his/her rights. 10.
The national supervisory authority of the Member State which transmitted the data and the national supervisory authority of the Member State in which the data subject is present shall assist and, where requested, advise him/her in exercising his/her right to correct or erase data.
Both national supervisory authorities shall cooperate to this end.
In each Member State any person may, in accordance with the laws, regulations and procedures of that State, bring an action or, if appropriate, a complaint before the competent authorities or courts of the State if he/she is refused the right of access provided for in paragraph 2. 12.
Any person may, in accordance with the laws, regulations and procedures of the Member State which transmitted the data, bring an action or, if appropriate, a complaint before the competent authorities or courts of that State concerning the data relating to him/her recorded in the central database, in order to exercise his/her rights under paragraph 3.
Article 19 National supervisory authority 1.
Article 20 Joint supervisory authority 1.
In particular, it shall supply information requested by the joint supervisory body, give it access to all documents and paper files as well as access to the data stored in the system and allow it access to all its premises, at all times. 7.
CHAPTER VII FINAL PROVISIONS Article 21 Costs 1.
The costs incurred in connection with the establishment and operation of the Central Unit shall be borne by the general budget of the European Union. 2.
Article 22 Implementing rules 1.
The Council shall adopt, acting by the majority laid down in Article 205(2) of the Treaty, the implementing provisions necessary for - laying down the procedure referred to in Article 4(7), - laying down the procedure for the blocking of the data referred to in Article 12(1), - drawing up the statistics referred to in Article 12(2).
The measures referred to in Article 3(4) shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 23(2).
Article 23 Committee 1.
Article 24 Annual report: Monitoring and evaluation 1.
Article 25 Penalties Member States shall ensure that use of data recorded in the central database contrary to the purpose of Eurodac as laid down in Article 1(1) shall be subject to appropriate penalties.
Article 26 Territorial scope The provisions of this Regulation shall not be applicable to any territory to which the Dublin Convention does not apply.
Article 27 Entry into force and applicability 1.
Done at Brussels, 11 December 2000.
VĂŠdrine (1) OJ C 189, 7.7.2000, p. 105 and p. 227 and opinion delivered on 21 September 2000 (not yet published in the Official Journal). (2) OJ C 254, 19.8.1997, p. 1. (3) OJ L 184, 17.7.1999, p. 23. (4) OJ L 281, 23.11.1995, p. 31.
