The Member States may be assisted in the official checks by the experts referred to in Article 21. 4.
The implementing provisions referred to in (ii) above may be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 18(2). 2.
Paragraph 1 shall apply, in cases of plants, plant products or other objects intended for a protected zone, in respect of harmful organisms and of special requirements listed in Annex I, Part B, Annex II, Part B and Annex IV, Part B respectively, for that protected zone. 3.
The identity checks and plant health checks shall be carried out at reduced frequency, if: - activities of inspection on plants, plant products or other objects in the consignment or lot were already carried out in the consignor third country under technical arrangements referred to in Article 13b(6), or - the plants, plant products or other objects in the consignment or lot are listed in the implementing provisions adopted for this purpose pursuant to paragraph 5(b), or - the plants, plant products or other objects in the consignment or lot came from a third country for which in or under comprehensive international phytosanitary agreements based on the principle of reciprocal treatment between the Community and a third country, provision for a reduced frequency of identity and plant health checks is mentioned, unless there is a serious reason to believe that the requirements laid down in this Directive are not complied with.
The certificate shall not have been made out more than 14 days before the date on which the plants, plant products or other objects covered by it have left the third country in which it was issued.
The Commission may include guidelines in respect of paragraph 2 in the recommendations referred to in Article 21(6).
The specified conditions shall be determined in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 18(2). 5.
Within the limits set by the appropriations available for these purposes, the Community contribution shall cover up to 50 % of expenditure relating directly to improving equipment and facilities.
Detailed rules concerning the Community financial contribution shall be laid down in an implementing Regulation adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 18(2).
Article 10(1) and (3) shall apply mutatis mutandis to plants, plant products or other objects referred to in Article 13 insofar as they are listed in Annex V, Part A, and where it is considered, on the basis of the formalities referred to in Article 13(1), that the conditions laid down therein are fulfilled. 7.
Article 11(3), second subparagraph, shall apply mutatis mutandis.
It shall be in capital letters, and in at least one of the official languages, of the Community. 8.
Member States may either set the level of the Phytosanitary fee on the basis of a detailed cost calculation carried out in accordance with paragraph 1, or apply the standard fee as specified in Annex VIIIa.
When, pursuant to Article 13a(2), for a certain group of plants, plant products or other objects originating in certain third countries, identity checks and plant health checks are being carried out at reduced frequency, Member States shall collect a proportionally reduced Phytosanitary fee from all consignments and lots of that group, whether subjected to inspection or not.
No direct or indirect refund of the fees provided for in this Directive shall be permitted.
However the possible application by a Member State of the standard fee as specified in Annex VIIIa shall not be considered an indirect refund. 5.
In accordance with the procedures referred to in the first subparagraph of paragraph 1, phytosanitary measures adopted by a third country for export into the Community shall be recognised as equivalent to the phytosanitary measures laid down in this Directive, in particular to those specified in Annex IV, if that third country objectively demonstrates to the Community that its measures achieve the Community's appropriate level of phytosanitary protection and if this is confirmed by the conclusions resulting from findings made on the occasion of reasonable access of the experts referred to in Article 21 for inspection, testing and other relevant procedures in the relevant third country.
Article 17 shall be deleted; 13.
Done at Brussels, 28 November 2002.
