2006/741/EC: Commission Decision of 20 October 2004 on State Aid implemented by Germany for Landesbank Schleswig-Holstein %mdash% Girozentrale, now HSH Nordbank AG (notified under document number C(2004) 3930) (Text with EEA relevance) Commission Decision of 20 October 2004 on State Aid implemented by Germany for Landesbank Schleswig-Holstein — Girozentrale, now HSH Nordbank AG (notified under document number C(2004) 3930) (Only the German text is authentic) (Text with EEA relevance) (2006/741/EC) THE COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular the first subparagraph of Article 88(2) thereof, Having regard to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, and in particular Article 62(1)(a) thereof, Having called on the Member State and other interested parties to submit their comments pursuant to the provisions cited above [1] and having regard to their comments, Whereas: I.
PROCEDURE (1) The subject of these proceedings is the transfer of Wohnungsbaukreditanstalt des Landes Schleswig-Holstein ("WKA"), Wirtschaftsaufbaukasse Schleswig-Holstein AG ("WAK") and the special-purpose real-estate reserve by the Land of Schleswig-Holstein to Landesbank Schleswig-Holstein — Girozentrale ("LSH").
There are a further six cases in which proceedings have been initiated against Germany in connection with transfers of assets to Landesbanks, and in particular to Westdeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale ("WestLB"). (2) By letter of 12 January 1993, the Commission asked Germany for information on a DEM 4 billion capital increase for WestLB resulting from the incorporation of the housing organisation Wohnungsbauförderanstalt ("WfA") and on similar increases in the own funds of the Landesbanks of other Länder.
It asked which Landesbanks had benefited from a transfer of public enterprises and for information on the reasons for those transactions. (3) Germany replied by letters dated 16 March and 17 September 1993.
The Commission requested further information by letters of 10 November and 13 December 1993, to which Germany replied by letter of 8 March 1994. (4) By letters of 31 May and 21 December 1994, the Bundesverband deutscher Banken e.V. ("BdB"), an association representing private banks established in Germany, informed the Commission that, among other things, WKA and WAK, together with their entire assets, had been transferred to LSH with effect from 1 January 1991.
In its second letter, the BdB accordingly lodged a formal complaint and called on the Commission to initiate proceedings against Germany under Article 93(2) of the EC Treaty (now Article 88(2)). (5) The complaint also related to similar transfers of assets to Landesbank Berlin, Westdeutsche Landesbank, Norddeutsche Landesbank, Hamburger Landesbank and Bayerische Landesbank.
In February and March 1995 and December 1996 several banks associated themselves individually with the complaint lodged by their association. (6) By letters of 6 August 1997 and 30 July 1998, the BdB informed the Commission of two further transfers of assets, to Landesbank Schleswig-Holstein in Schleswig-Holstein and Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen in Hessen.
The BdB referred in this context to Section 20 of a bill amending the Schleswig-Holstein Investment Bank Act (version as at 26 June 1997), which stipulates that the real-estate assets, after deduction of liabilities, should be considered to constitute a special-purpose reserve forming part of LSH's equity capital.
Germany replied to a further request for information dated 22 February 2001 by letter of 3 May 2001. (9) By letter of 13 November 2002, the Commission informed Germany of its decision to initiate the formal investigation procedure laid down in Article 88(2) of the EC Treaty in respect of the transfer of WKA, WAK and the special-purpose real-estate reserve of the Land of Schleswig-Holstein to LSH.
At the same time, it launched the investigation procedure in respect of similar transfers of assets to Norddeutsche Landesbank — Girozentrale, Bayerische Landesbank Girozentrale, Hamburgische Landesbank — Girozentrale and Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen.
The Commission called on interested parties to submit comments. (11) By letter of 11 April 2003, LSH submitted its comments on the initiation of the procedure in the LSH case. (12) By letter of 14 April 2003, Germany commented on the decision to initiate the procedure. (13) By letter of 29 July 2003, the BdB submitted comments on all the decisions taken on 13 November 2002 to initiate the investigation procedure. (14) The Commission asked for further information on 11 September 2003, and Germany replied on 29 October and 6 November 2003, commenting also on BdB's comments on LSH.
On 30 October 2003, Germany forwarded comments by the Land Government of North Rhine-Westphalia and by WestLB on the BdB's statement concerning the five Landesbank cases opened in November 2002. (15) The Commission sent further requests for information on 7 and 30 April, 19 May and 12 August 2004, to which Germany replied on 1 and 28 June, 27 May, 23 June, 27 August and 30 September 2004. (16) On 19 July 2004 the complainant (BdB), the Land of North Rhine-Westphalia and WestLB AG submitted a provisional agreement on the appropriate remuneration for the transferred assets.
On 29 September 2004, the BdB, the Land of Schleswig-Holstein and HSH Nordbank — which was formed from LSH and Hamburgische Landesbank in 2003 — submitted a provisional understanding on the appropriate remuneration for the transferred assets.
Similar understandings reached in the other cases involving transfers of assets to Landesbanks — except Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen — were also submitted to the Commission.
LANDESBANK SCHLESWIG-HOLSTEIN — GIROZENTRALE (17) Landesbank Schleswig-Holstein — Girozentrale (LB Kiel), with its head office in Kiel, had a group balance-sheet total of EUR 145500 million (as at 31 December 2002), making it one of Germany's 15 largest banks.
Prior to this transfer, the Land and the Sparkassen- und Giroverband each held 50 % of the shares. (19) On 2 June 2003, LSH and Hamburgische Landesbank merged to form HSH Nordbank AG, a public limited company (Aktiengesellschaft).
For tax and balance-sheet purposes, the merger had a retroactive effect as of 1 January 2003. (20) According to its annual report for 2002, LSH's core capital ratio was 6,5 % and its equity ratio 10,3 %.
Its income-to-equity ratio stood at 10,4 % in 2002. (21) Under Section 42 of the Schleswig-Holstein Savings Bank Act (Sparkassengesetz für das Land Schleswig-Holstein), LSH was required to perform the tasks of a government-owned bank, a central savings bank and a commercial bank.
SETTING-UP AND DEVELOPMENT OF INVESTITIONSBANK SCHLESWIG-HOLSTEIN (23) Under the Schleswig-Holstein Investment Bank Act (Investitionsbankgesetz: "IBG") of 11 December 1990, IB was set up with effect from 1 January 1991 as a public institution with organisational and economic independence.
It is therefore refinanced on behalf of and with the involvement of LSH. (24) IB is the central development institution providing economic and structural policy back-up in Schleswig-Holstein.
It also assists infrastructure projects in the Baltic area. (25) By the Act of 7 May 2003, which came into force on 1 June 2003, IB was split off from LSH's assets, with legal effect from 1 June 2003 and with retroactive effect on the balance sheet as of 1 January 2003, and set up as an independent public-law institution (Anstalt des öffentlichen Rechts) under the name "Investitionsbank Schleswig-Holstein" with its head office in Kiel.
Despite the retroactive effect on the balance sheet as of 1 January 2003, LSH was able to continue to use IB's capital to underpin its competitive business in the same manner until 1 June 2003. (26) The real-estate administration body Liegenschaftsverwaltung Schleswig-Holstein ("LVSH") was also set up as an independent public-law institution, with its head office in Kiel, with legal effect from 1 June 2003 and with retroactive effect on the balance sheet as of 1 January 2003.
TRANSFER OF WKA TO LSH (27) By the Act of 31 March 1950, WKA was set up as a public institution under the name "Landestreuhandstelle für Wohnungs- und Kleinsiedlungswesen in Schleswig-Holstein".
WKA used its own funds to grant building loans at particularly low interest rates [7]. (28) Under Section 2(1) of the IBG, WKA and its entire assets were transferred, minus the costs of the liquidation, to LSH with effect from 1 January 1991.
TRANSFER OF WAK TO LSH (29) WAK was a special credit institution set up by the Land as a public limited company (Aktiengesellschaft) with the task of providing financial assistance to the projects of commercial businesses and other measures designed to strengthen the economic and communications structure. (30) Section 3 of the IBG authorises the Minister for Finance to take over all of WAK's assets, including all of its rights and obligations.
WAK's assets were therefore initially transferred to the Land by means of universal succession under Section 359 of the Public Limited Company Act (Aktiengesetz) so that they could subsequently be transferred to LSH.
An "incorporation agreement" of 2 January 1991 between the Land and LSH regulated the transfer of WAK's assets, including all rights and obligations, with effect from 1 January 1991 [8]. (32) Under Section 14(1) of the IBG, IB continued to perform all of WAK's tasks, which are listed in Annex 2 to the IBG. 2.4.
Instead, the real-estate assets as a whole, including any gains made on them, had to be used for a specific purpose. (34) Under Section 20(1) of the IBG, the transferred real-estate assets were accordingly designated as a special-purpose real-estate reserve.
The effect of these transfers on LSH's own funds as shown in the balance sheet was as follows: the purchase of the first lot of properties by IB increased LSH's own funds as shown in the balance sheet at 31 December 1999 by DEM […] million.
CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS UNDER THE OWN FUNDS AND SOLVENCY DIRECTIVES (38) Pursuant to Council Directive 89/647/EEC of 18 December 1989 on a solvency ratio for credit institutions [12] (the "Solvency Directive") and Council Directive 89/299/EEC of 17 April 1989 on the own funds of credit institutions [13] (the "Own Funds Directive"), which amended the German Banking Act (Kreditwesengesetz, or KWG), banks must have a level of own funds equal to 8 % of their risk-adjusted assets.
At least 4 percentage points of this amount must consist of what is termed core capital, or "tier 1" capital, meaning items of capital which are at the credit institution's disposal without restriction and immediately to cover risks or losses as soon as they arise.
In determining the total own funds available to a bank for supervisory purposes, the core capital is of decisive importance because additional capital, or "tier 2" capital, is accepted as underpinning for risk-bearing transactions only up to the amount of the available core capital. (39) By 30 June 1993 [14] German banks had to adapt [15] their own funds to the new requirements of the Solvency Directive and the Own Funds Directive.
The provisional opening balance sheet at 1 January 1991 showed total equity capital of DEM 1558 million.
The final audit at 1 January 1991 corrected this amount to DEM 1306,05 million [17]. (41) BAKred had acknowledged by letter of 15 August 1991 that LSH's liable equity capital had increased by DEM 1559,44 million as a result of IB's capital reserve.
Germany pointed out that the final audit indicated that the recognised equity capital was only DEM 1306,05 million and that, from 15 August 1991, LSH had only that amount of additional liable capital at its disposal [18]. (42) Because the special-purpose reserve was earmarked for promotion-related tasks, even though it constituted own funds, it was not, however, at LSH's unrestricted disposal.
The promotion-related assets of DEM 1306 million therefore increased the total equity capital base of DEM 681 million by around 190 %. (44) Assuming that DEM 1013 million was available for LSH's competitive business in 1992, its 100 % risk-lending capacity, based on the then applicable solvency ratio of 5,6 % laid down in the Banking Act, was enhanced by at least DEM 18000 million. (45) Assuming also that, since the Community solvency ratio of 8 % has been applicable, between DEM 1024 million (1994) and DEM […] million (2002) has been available for LSH's competitive business, its 100 % risk-lending capacity has been enhanced by DEM 12800 million (1994) and by over DEM […] million (2002) respectively.
In 1999 it had as much as DEM […] million available, representing an increase in capacity of at least DEM […] million. (46) In reality, the permissible credit volume could have been expanded even more because the risk-adjusted assets of a bank are not normally deemed to bear a 100 % risk [19].
On the basis of a realistic risk adjustment, which in LSH's case is probably below 50 %, it should be possible to double the above-mentioned business expansion to over DEM 30000 million. 4.2.
The consequence of this is, in Germany's view, that the special-purpose real-estate reserve cannot be used by LSH for its commercial business or by IB in its own business [21]. 5.
For 1994 and 1995 a so-called "profits advance" (Gewinnvorab) of 0,5 % was charged on those portions of the special-purpose reserve used for competitive business, in addition to a flat-rate remuneration of DEM 750000 (1994) and DEM 200000 (1995).
For 1997 to 2002, the profits advance was set at […] % of the portion of IB's capital used for competitive business [22].
REMUNERATION FOR THE REAL ESTATE (52) Germany states that LSH paid no remuneration to the Land of Schleswig-Holstein for the assets transferred in the form of the special-purpose real-estate reserve [26].
One method of determining the normal market remuneration for the contributed capital was thus to take the long-term risk-free rate (for 10-year Federal bonds) and apply to it a risk premium corresponding to the higher risk of equity capital.
As Germany had already indicated that the rate of remuneration for a long-term, risk-free investment of assets stood at around 9 % per annum [27] at the end of 1990, when the transfer of assets took place, the Commission had serious doubts as to whether the flat-rate remuneration paid and/or an extra 0,5 % or […] % per annum for the equity capital actually used could be deemed normal for the market, irrespective of any necessary risk premium. (56) The Commission also doubted whether a market-economy investor would have agreed to limit remuneration to the portion of the funds actually used. (57) However, the Commission had already acknowledged in its decision to initiate the procedure that the contributed capital's lack of liquidity should not be disregarded when determining the normal market remuneration.
Moreover, since 1 January 1994 the Land had not increased but reduced its share of this increase in value. (59) The Commission therefore concluded in its decision to initiate the procedure that the measures in favour of LSH, which conducts business mainly at regional level but also operates nationally and internationally, constituted state aid within the meaning of Article 87(1) of the EC Treaty.
As none of the exemptions provided for in Article 87(2) and (3) or Article 86(2) of the EC Treaty applied in the present case, the state aid appeared not to be compatible with the common market.
Third, the average return requirement is said to be at variance with Article 87(1) EC, read in conjunction with Article 295 EC, since imposing such a special requirement on the public investor infringes the principle of equal treatment of private and public undertakings arising from Article 295 EC.
Appropriate remuneration according to the principle of the market-economy investor (63) Three different economic approaches were discussed which could be used to calculate the normal market remuneration for a capital injection: the insurance premium approach, the risk profile approach and the share capital approach. (64) The starting-point for the insurance premium approach is the fact that the transfer of WAK's and WKA's assets to LSH was subject to restrictions and that, because of their special purpose, the liquidity remained entirely with the Land.
The following comments were made on the basic interest rate used and the individual premiums and discounts applied: (67) Minimum return after tax: Given current earnings in the banking sector, and especially public banks, the 12 % rate applied is said to be too high.
The capital injection in LSH totalled only DEM 1600 million, compared with DEM 5900 million in the WestLB case (a substantial financial investment).
Accordingly, under German corporation tax law, it is not levied on the undertaking. (70) Corporation tax credit procedure: LSH argues that, if the Commission wishes to abide by its share capital approach, it must either subtract the tax credit balance from the return of a comparable private investor or add a corresponding fictional tax credit balance to the Land's return. (71) Owner effect, coupon effect, discount for fixed remuneration: LSH mentions other economic effects that lead to a reduction in what can be regarded as an "appropriate" remuneration for IB's capital. (72) It was also argued that it was irrelevant for the purposes of state aid legislation how the Land of Schleswig-Holstein arranged a remuneration from LSH for the transfer of IB's capital.
The transfer of IB's capital enabled the Land to obtain a higher price than would have otherwise been possible for holdings in LSH acquired by WestLB and Landesbank Baden-Württemberg. (73) It was also claimed that the special-purpose real-estate reserve did not perform either a financing or a business-generating function for LSH since it was not recognised by BAKred as core capital for supervisory purposes.
No remuneration need therefore be paid for the assets transferred to LSH as a special-purpose real-estate reserve since the transfer conferred no economic advantage on LSH for which a market-economy investor would have demanded a remuneration. (74) To sum up, the transfer of the housing-promotion assets of the Land of Schleswig-Holstein to LSH was said not to constitute state aid.
also in the case of LSH, can be compared to an injection of share capital. (79) Nearly all the Landesbanks are said to have required fresh core capital from 1992 onwards in order to meet the stricter requirements arising from the Solvency Directive.
In all cases the transferred capital made up a significant proportion of the total core capital, sometimes even more than 50 %.
Minimum remuneration for a share-capital investment in a Landesbank (83) The BdB argues that all methods of determining an appropriate remuneration (return) for the provision of share capital start from a risk-free return and add a risk premium.
They can be traced back to the following basic principle: Expected return on a high-risk investment = risk-free return + risk premium for the risky investment (84) To determine the risk-free return, the BdB used the returns on long-term government bonds, fixed-rate securities issued by state bodies being the form of investment with the least or no risk [29]. (85) To derive the risk premium, the BdB first worked out the "market risk premium", i.e.
The BdB initially concluded that all the beta values for all the Landesbanks and periods considered were greater than one [30]. (87) On the basis of a risk-free basic interest rate of 9,74 % and a beta factor for LSH of 1,1105, the BdB calculated the expected minimum remuneration for an investment in the share capital of LSH to be 14,85 % per annum at the time when IB's capital was transferred on 31 December 1990.
Premiums and discounts on account of the particularities of the transactions (88) The BdB also noted that the Commission's deduction pursuant to Decision 2000/392/EC from the minimum remuneration to take account of the lack of liquidity of Wfa's assets had been upheld by the Court of First Instance.
The 0,3 % per annum guarantee commission (Haftungsprovision) applied by the Commission in its WestLB decision, which it calculated by comparing the amount of capital with a guarantee, is equally appropriate in this case.
It contended that this part of IB's capital conferred no economic advantage on LSH and therefore required no remuneration.
Moreover, the capital transferred to LSH was not liquid share capital but non-liquid assets which performed an — at most — limited guarantee function and so could not be used by LSH for investment or lending purposes. (93) Germany also contested the argument that remuneration should be paid for the portion of transferred capital not recognised for supervisory purposes (in LSH's case, the special-purpose real-estate reserve).
Accordingly, it did not see why the banking supervisory authorities and creditors should regard the special-purpose real-estate reserve as a lasting reservoir of value. (94) Germany submitted that IB's capital is closest in nature to perpetual preferred shares, profit participation certificates and silent partnership contributions. (95) Germany argued that in 1994 LSH's guarantors agreed on a proportionate replenishment commitment which would ensure that, in the (unlikely) event of LSH becoming insolvent, IB's capital would not be called on.
Instead, the correct beta value for LSH should be determined by taking a comparable group, namely IKB, BHF Bank and Vereins- und Westbank, resulting in a beta value of 0,7894. (101) Germany therefore concluded that the minimum remuneration for an investment in the share capital of LSH at 31 December 1990 (taking account of the beta factor of 0,7894, the market-risk premium of 3 % and the base rate of 6,91 %) was 9,28 %.
COMMENTS BY THE LAND OF NORTH RHINE-WESTPHALIA AND WESTLB (102) On 30 October 2003 Germany forwarded a response from the Land of North Rhine-Westphalia and WestLB to the decision to initiate the investigation procedure in which they disputed the statement that the assets transferred to the Landesbanks, including LSH, could be compared to share capital.
But for an investor to receive in 2003 the return expected in 1991, which was much higher than the returns actually achieved, flew in the face of all economic realities.
Permanently and systematically applying a rate of return of around 12 % placed the Landesbanks at an unjustifiable disadvantage compared with private competitors. (105) As regards the discount for the lack of liquidity of the transferred assets, WestLB and the Land of North Rhine-Westphalia considered that the rate for risk-free government bonds should be deducted in full from the basic return.
UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN THE BDB, THE LAND OF SCHLESWIG-HOLSTEIN AND HSH NORDBANK (107) On 8 October 2004, the Commission was informed of the outcome of an understanding between the complainant (the BdB), the Land of Schleswig-Holstein and HSH Nordbank, which was formed from LSH and Hamburgische Landesbank in 2003.
In concrete terms this yielded a risk-free basic interest rate for LSH of 6,61 % at the time of the transfer ( 31 December 1990).
Furthermore, HSH Nordbank raised no objection to the suggestion that, for the period of the transfer up to the end of the month when the assets were recognised as core capital by BAKred ( 1 January 1991 — 30 August 1991), a guarantee commission of 0,3 % is also payable on the sum of DEM 1306,05 million shown on the balance sheet. (114) During negotiations on the understanding, it was argued for the first time that, in addition to the remuneration for IB's capital already mentioned, a further remuneration element consisted of IB's annual surplus, which was paid to the Land of Schleswig-Holstein as a dividend on the basis of Section 17(2) IBG (1990 version) or Section 19(2) IBG (1998 version).
ASSESSMENT OF THE MEASURES 1.
STATE AID WITHIN THE MEANING OF ARTICLE 87(1) OF THE EC TREATY (118) Article 87(1) of the EC Treaty states that, save as otherwise provided in the Treaty, any aid granted by a Member State or through state resources which distorts or threatens to distort competition by favouring certain undertakings or the production of certain goods is incompatible with the common market, insofar as trade between Member States is affected. 1.1.
Although the resources transferred were not at LSH's unrestricted disposal, as the special-purpose reserve was earmarked for promotion-related tasks, the assets were recognised by the supervisory authority and could therefore be used to provide cover for the liabilities of LSH, which was in competition with other credit institutions.
Therefore, the market-economy investor principle is applicable in the same way to all public enterprises, whether profitable or loss-making.
The Commission's position in this respect was confirmed by the European Court of First Instance in its judgment in WestLB [33]. (124) It follows that the key question in examining this case is whether a market-economy investor would have transferred capital that had the same characteristics as the Land of Schleswig-Holstein's promotion-related assets and real estate and under the same conditions, especially in view of the expected return on the investment. (125) According to Germany, the chief considerations here were to draw together all the Land's promotion-related activities and continue them in a more economic and more efficient manner, to optimise deliberation on and completion of promotion-related tasks and to create the conditions for the flexible use of funds.
Therefore, one way of ensuring an adequate return on the capital provided would have been to increase the Land's participation in LSH accordingly, provided that the bank's overall profitability corresponds to the normal rate of return that a market-economy investor would expect from his investment.
It also points out that the transfer of IB's capital to LSH enabled the Land to obtain a higher price than would have otherwise been possible for holdings in LSH acquired by WestLB and Landesbank Baden-Württemberg. (134) However, if a redistribution of shares were not feasible, a market-economy investor would, in the Commission's view, have embarked on the investment only if agreement had at least been reached on an appropriate direct remuneration.
Normally a market-economy investor is not content to avoid losses or to obtain a limited return on his investment, but attempts to maximise the return on his assets according to the circumstances in question and his interests [36].
In this regard the starting point for determining the normal market remuneration is the remuneration that would be demanded by a private investor providing a bank with core capital.
Where the capital provided is shown in the balance sheet as equity but is not recognised as core capital for supervisory purposes or is intended to underpin promotion-related activities, it is not available for expanding business.
The normal market remuneration of the "guarantee function" of capital is calculated according to the return which a private guarantor would have demanded from a credit institution comparable to LSH in size and risk strategy. (138) On 1 January 1991, the Land of Schleswig-Holstein transferred to LSH the capital of IB, which, according to the final audit, came to DEM 1306 million.
Accordingly, this part of the special-purpose reserve was not at LSH's disposal for expanding competitive areas of its business, although it did have a guarantee function.
According to Germany, it was only from that time on that the capital could be used to cover risk-bearing assets. (143) However, insofar as the capital had already been shown in the balance sheet as own funds, it also had at least a guarantee function, as explained above in more detail.
Consequently, as in the WestLB case [38], the appropriate remuneration can be determined only by comparing the asset transfer with various equity instruments normally found on the markets, in order to determine by analogy which instrument is most similar to it and is therefore the benchmark for determining the remuneration. (146) The complainant submits that the promotion-related assets concentrated in the special-purpose reserve can be compared only to share capital.
The special-purpose reserve was recognised by BAKred as core capital ("tier 1" capital) and can therefore be compared only with equity instruments that were recognised as core capital in Germany in the year of the transfer.
IB's capital is therefore said to be closest in nature to perpetual preferred shares, profit participation certificates and silent partnership reserves. (147) It should be borne in mind that the instruments used by Germany for the comparison normally provide a bank with only a very limited part of own funds.
Even if one takes account only of the increase in the amount usable by LSH to underpin its commercial business, this still represents an increase of over 50 %.
It would not have been possible to increase LSH's capital in the same way, and on a permanent basis, by one of the instruments compared. (148) In this connection, it should also be stressed that the relatively wide range of innovative equity instruments now available to credit institutions in several countries for use as original own funds and additional own funds did not exist in Germany back in 1991, when IB's capital was transferred or in 1993, when LSH had to comply with new, stricter capital requirements.
Some of these instruments have been developed in the meantime, while others already existed but were not accepted in Germany.
It is therefore inappropriate to compare IB's capital to such innovative instruments, most of which have developed in the meantime and some of which were available only in other countries. (149) As to the two instruments which, as the closest benchmarks, play the central role in Germany's comparison, namely perpetual preferred shares and profit participation certificates, a number of specific points should be stressed.
Profit participation certificates constitute only additional own funds, whereas IB's capital qualifies as original own funds.
A market-economy investor could not expect to be remunerated in the same way as for a cash injection. (153) However, in the Commission's view, the entire refinancing interest rate does not have to be taken into account.
Taking these basic principles, the Commission here does the calculation in two steps: first, it determines the minimum remuneration that an investor would expect for a (hypothetical) investment in the share capital of LSH.
The CAPM can be used only on the basis of an estimate of the beta factor. (159) In its comments of 29 July 2003, the BdB, using the CAPM, concluded that the minimum remuneration to be expected for an investment in the capital of LSH at 31 December 1990, when the transfer took place, was 14,85 % per annum.
The index series used in the present case contains the relevant end-of-year results of the REX10 Performance Index since 1970.
Return discount for lack of liquidity (165) The long-term risk-free rate (10-year German Federal government bonds) at the end of 1990 was 8,98 %.
In their understanding the parties apply a long-term risk-free rate of 6,61 % [42].
On this basis, they arrive at a net refinancing rate of 3,31 % and a corresponding deduction for liquidity. (166) In view of that understanding and the fact that the amount in question falls below the range previously cited by Germany, the Commission sees no reason to regard this amount as inappropriate and consequently uses it as a basis for determining the aid element.
It must therefore be examined whether the particularities, and especially the specific risk profile of the transfer of IB's capital, constitute grounds for adjusting the minimum remuneration determined of 9,29 % which a private investor would expect for a (hypothetical) investment in the capital of LSH and whether the Commission can produce a methodically robust quantification of that adjustment.
If the Land's voting rights had been increased, it would have possessed more than 50 % of those rights, thereby becoming the majority shareholder.
On the basis of the higher remuneration for preference shares compared with ordinary shares and in agreement with the complainant, BdB, the Land of Schleswig-Holstein and LSH, who, as a result of their meetings in August and September 2004, regard a rate of 0,3 % per annum (after tax) as reasonable, the Commission considers a premium of at least 0,3 % per annum (after corporation tax) to be appropriate.
Appropriate remuneration for IB's capital up to the time when it was recognised by BAKred, for the amount used by IB and for the special-purpose real-estate reserve (173) As stated above, IB's capital was already of material value to LSH before it was recognised by BAKred as core capital within the meaning of the Banking Act (KWG), as it appeared on the balance sheet as equity right from the time of the transfer.
Germany initially regarded as inappropriate the basic rate of 0,3 % per annum recognised by the Commission in Decision 2000/392/EC [43] for the guarantee function enjoyed by LSH.
In Decision 2000/392/EC, a premium of a further 0,3 % per annum was added on top of that rate because, firstly, guarantees are normally tied to certain transactions and limited in time (which was not the case in WestLB) and, secondly, the amount of over DEM 3400 million made available to WestLB was higher than that normally covered by such bank guarantees. (174) Since WestLB and LSH are fundamentally comparable and for want of any other points of reference, the Commission assumes that this rate corresponds to the remuneration that LSH would also have to have paid on the market for a guarantee in its favour. (175) Here too the understanding between the BdB, the Land of Schleswig-Holstein and LSH assumes that a premium of 0,3 % is justified.
The Commission therefore considers that a premium is justified in the case of LSH and lays down a rate of 0,3 % per annum as appropriate remuneration for the guarantee function of the capital from the time when the transferred amount appeared on the balance sheet ( 1 January 1991) up to its recognition by BAKred.
Despite its name, tradition and legally stipulated tasks, LSH was much more than a mere local or regional bank. (192) These facts clearly show that LSH offered its banking services in competition with other European banks outside Germany and, since banks from other European countries are active in Germany, inside Germany. (193) It should also be pointed out that there is a very close relationship between a credit institution's equity capital and its banking activities.
CONCLUSION (195) On the basis of all these considerations, it can be stated that all the criteria of Article 87(1) of the EC Treaty are met and hence that the transfer of the special-purpose reserve involves state aid within the meaning of that Article. 2.
This was confirmed by the Commission in its report on services of general economic interest in the banking sector [45].
Accordingly, this exemption clause does not apply either in the case at hand. (202) Since no exemption from the principle of the ban on state aid pursuant to Article 87(1) of the EC Treaty applies, the aid in question cannot be found compatible with the Treaty. 3.
CONCLUSION (206) The Commission finds that the Federal Republic of Germany has unlawfully implemented the aid in question contrary to Article 88(3) of the Treaty.
This aid is therefore illegal. (207) The aid cannot be regarded as compatible either under Article 87(2) or (3) or under any other provision of the EC Treaty.
Article 2 Germany shall take all necessary measures to recover from the recipient the aid referred to in Article 1 and unlawfully made available to the recipient.
Interest shall be calculated in accordance with the provisions of Chapter V of Commission Regulation (EC) No 794/2004 [46].
Article 5 This Decision is addressed to the Federal Republic of Germany.
In estimating the long-term, risk-free basic interest rate, the estimation of the expected long-term average inflation rate of 3,60 % was then added to the "real basic interest rate" at the relevant moment. [30] For the purposes of comparison, the BdB also gives the theoretical beta values calculated using the Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM), which, as it indicates, differ very little from the empirically determined values. [31] See footnote 4. [32] Commission communication to the Member States on the application of Articles 92 and 93 of the EEC Treaty and of Article 5 of Commission Directive 80/723/EEC to public undertakings in the manufacturing sector (OJ C 307, 13.11.1993, p. 3, point 11).
It can be obtained from the Competition Directorate-General of the Commission and can also be found on the Commission's website. [46] OJ L 140, 30.4.2004, p. 1. -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX INFORMATION REGARDING THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE COMMISSION DECISION 1.
Please provide the following details regarding the amount of unlawful state aid that has been put at the disposal of the recipient: Date(s) of paymento [1] | Amount of aid [2] | Currency | Identity of recipient | | | | | | | | | | | | | Comments: 1.2.
Please explain in detail how the interest payable on the amount to be recovered will be calculated. 2.
Please provide the following details of aid that has been recovered from the recipient: Date(s) [3] | Amount of aid repaid | Currency | Identity of recipient | | | | | | | | | | | | | 3.2.
