Commission Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2342/2002 of 23 December 2002 laying down detailed rules for the implementation of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities Commission Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2342/2002 of 23 December 2002 laying down detailed rules for the implementation of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities TABLE OF CONTENTS %gt%TABLE%gt% THE COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Atomic Energy Community, Having regard to Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities(1), and in particular Article 183 thereof, Having consulted the European Parliament, the Council, the Court of Justice of the European Communities, the Court of Auditors, the European Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions, the Ombudsman and the European Data Protection Supervisor, Whereas: (1) The provisions of Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (hereinafter %quot%the Financial Regulation%quot%) have been simplified to confine the Regulation to the basic principles and definitions relating to the establishment, execution and control of the general budget of the European Communities (hereinafter %quot%the budget%quot%). (2) These implementing rules should therefore not only supplement the Financial Regulation in respect of the provisions thereof for which it expressly refers to the implementing rules but also in respect of the provisions whose application requires the implementing measures to be determined in advance.
In the interests of clarity, it is necessary to replace Commission Regulation (Euratom, ECSC, EC) No 3418/93 of 9 December 1993 laying down detailed rules for the implementation of the Financial Regulation of 21 December 1977(2), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 1687/2001(3). (3) To ensure that sectoral rules are consistent with the budgetary principles set out in the Financial Regulation, an inventory should be produced of all regulatory instruments relating to budget execution and provision made for this inventory to be drawn up by the Commission and submitted to the budgetary authority. (4) As regards the budgetary principles, in particular the principle of unity, the requirement that interest on pre-financing to be repaid to the budget be identified means that any pre-financing which remains the property of the Communities must be identified.
Where pre-financing which remains the property of the Communities yields interest, this interest should be paid to the budget as miscellaneous revenue. (5) For the principle of annuality, it is important to clarify the meaning of annual appropriations and the preparatory stages of the commitment procedure which, if completed by 31 December, may allow the carryover of commitment appropriations which will then have to be used by 31 March of the following financial year. (6) As regards the principle of the unit of account, the rates to be used for conversion between the euro and the other currencies for the requirements of the management of the cash flow and the accounts should be specified. (7) As regards the derogations from the principle of universality, the budget treatment to be given to assigned revenue, in particular to contributions by Member States or third countries to certain Community programmes, should be specified, as must the limits on the netting of expenditure and revenue. (8) As regards the principle of specification, a precise definition should be given of the calculation of the percentage of appropriations which the institutions are authorised to transfer by virtue of the autonomy they enjoy and provision should be made for the budgetary authority to be given full information through a detailed explanation of the requests for transfers which have to be submitted to it. (9) As for sound financial management, it is necessary to specify the objectives of the ex ante, interim and ex post evaluations of the programmes and activities, the minimum frequency with which they are to be carried out and the information to be given in the legislative financial statement. (10) As for the establishment and presentation of the budget, it is necessary to determine the contents of the general introduction to the budget, the working documents backing up the budget and the budget remarks for ensuring that the budgetary authority is fully informed.
In the new activity-based budgeting (ABB) presentation, the definition and classification of administrative appropriations should also be set out. (11) As regards implementation of the budget, it is appropriate first to clarify the forms which may be taken by basic acts in the Community field and in the fields covered by the Treaty on European Union.
The maximum amounts of appropriations which may be implemented for preparatory actions and pilot schemes without the existence of a basic act should be determined and the provisions of the Treaties conferring specific powers directly on the Commission should be listed. (12) Acts likely to constitute a conflict of interests should also be defined, together with the procedure to be followed in such cases. (13) As for the different methods of implementing the budget, it should be laid down that, when the Commission does not implement the budget directly in its departments, it must first ascertain that the entities to which it plans to entrust implementing tasks have management procedures and control and accounting systems which are adequate and appropriate with regard to the requirements of sound financial management. (14) In respect of indirect centralised management, that is to say, of management delegated by the Commission to executive agencies or to bodies governed by Community law or national public-sector bodies or bodies with a public-service mission, it is also necessary to lay down the framework for such delegation of powers and the arrangements for its implementation by act of delegation or agreement.
The budgetary authority should in future be informed of the appointment or termination of duties of an authorising officer by delegation.
Finally, all the various forms of negotiated procedure for the award of public contracts should, since they represent derogations, be the subject of a special report to the institution and of a communication to the budgetary authority. (18) In order to clarify responsibilities, a precise definition should also be given of the tasks and responsibilities of the accounting officer in connection with the accounting systems, treasury management, the management of bank accounts and third-party files.
The arrangements for the termination of the accounting officer's duties should also be spelled out. (19) The conditions for the use of imprest accounts, a system of management which forms an exception to normal budgetary procedures, should also be laid down, and the tasks and responsibilities of the imprest administrators, as well as those of the authorising officer and accounting officer in connection with the control of imprest accounts, should be set out.
The procedure by which an authorising officer may seek confirmation of an instruction and thus be released from any liability should also be laid down. (21) As regards revenue, except for the special case of own resources covered by Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1150/2000 of 22 May 2000 implementing Decision 94/728/EC, Euratom on the system of the Communities' own resources(4), it is necessary to specify the tasks and controls falling within the responsibility of the authorising officers at the different stages of the procedure: establishment of the estimate of amounts receivable and then the recovery order; dispatch of the debit note informing the debtor that the amount receivable has been established; calculation of any default interest due; and, finally, the decision, where necessary, to waive an entitlement subject to criteria guaranteeing compliance with sound financial management.
The accounting officer's role in the collection of revenue and in allowing any additional time for payment should also be specified. (22) As regards expenditure, the relationship between financing decisions, global commitments and individual commitments should be defined, as should the characteristics of those different stages.
Consequently, it is first necessary to define the various types of procurement contract; the advertising and publication measures applicable; the conditions in which use may be made of a particular form of procedure and the main features of the existing procedures; the specification of selection criteria and the possible award arrangements; rules for access to tender documents and for communication with tenderers or candidates; and, for cases where the Commission awards contracts on its own account, the various thresholds applicable and the rules for estimating the value of the contracts to be awarded. (26) The purpose of the procedures for the award of contracts is to satisfy the needs of the institutions on the best possible terms while guaranteeing equal access to public contracts and complying with the principles of transparency and non-discrimination.
The financial guarantees needed to protect the Communities' financial interests should also be specified. (27) Finally, it is necessary to delimit the contracting authorities' powers to impose administrative penalties, in order to ensure that penalties are proportionate and dissuasive and to secure equal treatment as between the various institutions and as between departments. (28) The scope of the Title on grants should also be clarified, particularly with regard to the different methods for implementing the budget, but also with regard to the type of action or body of general European interest eligible for a grant.
The characteristics of the annual work programme and of calls for proposals should be specified, as should the possible exceptions in this context and the possibility of retroactive effect, particularly in the context of humanitarian aid and the management of crisis situations, for which the constraints are very specific. (29) Again with regard to the requirements of transparency, equal treatment for applicants and the enhancement of the accountability of authorising officers, the award procedure should be laid down, from the application for the grant to its evaluation, by a committee, in the light of previously specified selection and award criteria, before the authorising officer takes his final, appropriately documented decision. (30) Sound financial management then requires that the Commission protect itself with guarantees: at the stage of grant applications, by arranging financial audits for applications involving larger amounts; then, at the time of paying pre-financing, by requiring advance financial guarantees; and, finally, at the stage of final payment, by arranging financial audits for the requests which involve the largest amounts and which present most risk.
Finally, the sound management of Community funds means that the grant beneficiaries themselves must comply with the principles of transparency and equal treatment of potential contractors, as well as with the principle that the contract must be awarded to the tender offering best value for money when the action is partly sub-contracted. (31) Finally, powers for imposing penalties in that context should be aligned with those conferred in the context of procurement. (32) As regards the keeping and presentation of the accounts, each of the generally accepted accounting principles on which the financial statements must be based should be defined.
It is also necessary to specify the conditions for entering a transaction in the accounts and the rules for valuing assets and liabilities and for the constitution of provisions. (33) It should be specified that the institutions' accounts must be accompanied by a report on budgetary and financial management and details should be given of the content and presentation of the elements making up the financial statements (balance sheet, economic outturn account, cash-flow table and annex) and the budget implementation statements (budget outturn account and annex). (34) On accounting matters, it should be specified that the accounting officer of each institution must produce documents describing the organisation of the accounts and the accounting procedures of that institution and define the conditions to be respected by the computerised accounting systems, in particular as regards security of access and the audit trail for any changes made to the systems. (35) As regards the keeping of the accounts, it is necessary to specify the principles applicable to the accounting ledgers, the trial balance, the periodical reconciliation of the totals in that balance and the inventory, and to specify the components of the chart of accounts adopted by the Commission's accounting officer.
The rules applicable to the registration of operations, in particular the double-entry method, the rules for the conversion of operations which are not denominated in euro and the supporting documents for accounting entries, should be laid down.
The content of the accounting records should also be specified. (36) Finally, it is necessary to lay down the rules relating to the property inventory and to clarify the respective responsibilities in this field of the accounting officers and authorising officers, as well as the rules applicable to the resale of property entered in the inventory. (37) As regards the Structural Funds, it should be specified that the repayment of payments on account in respect of a given operation does not have the effect of reducing the contribution from the Fund to that operation. (38) The types of action, direct and indirect, which may be financed in the research sector should be specified. (39) For external actions, the implementing rules, like the Financial Regulation itself, aim to make provision for exceptions which reflect the specific operational features of that sector, mainly as regards procurement and the award of grants. (40) As regards procurement, these implementing rules take over the substance of the provisions of the Commission Decision of 10 November 1999 on the simplification of the management systems for the award of contracts in the framework of the cooperation programmes implemented by the Directorates-General for external relations,(10) resulting in procurement rules which differ from the standard rules by virtue of the different thresholds set and the management procedures, which have been adapted to external actions. (41) As for grants, it is necessary to list the types of action for which derogation is possible from the principle of co-financing referred to in Article 109 of the Financial Regulation.
This applies in particular to humanitarian aid and aid in crisis situations and actions for the protection of the health or fundamental rights of peoples. (42) To guarantee the sound management of Community appropriations, it is also necessary to specify the pre-conditions and the rules to be contained in the agreements when the management of appropriations is decentralised or if use is made of imprest accounts. (43) The provisions of the Financial Regulation relating to European Offices should be supplemented by specific rules for the Office for Official Publications of the European Communities and by provisions authorising the Commission's accounting officer to delegate some of his tasks to staff in those Offices.
Pre-financing within the meaning of Article 105 shall remain the property of the Communities, unless the basic act, within the meaning of Article 49(1) of the Financial Regulation, provides otherwise.
It shall not apply to joint management within the meaning of Article 53 of the Financial Regulation. 2.
In the case of direct centralised management within the meaning of Article 53 of the Financial Regulation involving a number of partners, the rule referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply solely to the principal contractor. 3.
In the case of decentralised management and in the case of indirect centralised management within the meaning of Article 53 of the Financial Regulation, the rule referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply only to the entity receiving pre-financing direct from the Commission. 4.
Paragraphs 1 to 4 shall be without prejudice to the entry of pre-financing on the assets side of the financial statements, as will be laid down in the accounting rules provided for in Article 133 of the Financial Regulation.
The authorising officer responsible shall, in accordance with the timetable referred to in point (b) of paragraph 2, draw up a recovery order for the amount of interest referred to in paragraph 1. 4.
Where pre-financing is paid from the same budget line, under the same basic act and to beneficiaries covered by the same award procedure, the authorising officer may draw up a single estimate of amounts receivable for a number of debtors.
CHAPTER 2 Principle of annuality Article 5 Appropriations for the financial year (Article 8(3) of the Financial Regulation) The commitment appropriations and payment appropriations entered in the budget for a financial year and which have to be used during that year shall consist of the appropriations authorised for that financial year.
The appropriations authorised for the financial year are: (a) appropriations provided in the budget, including by amending budgets; (b) appropriations carried over; (c) appropriations made available again in accordance with Articles 157 and 181(5) of the Financial Regulation; (d) appropriations arising from payments on account which have been repaid in accordance with Article 228; (e) appropriations provided following the receipt of revenue assigned during the financial year or during previous financial years and not used.
The commitment appropriations referred to in Article 9(2)(a) of the Financial Regulation may be carried over only if the commitments could not be made before 31 December of the financial year for reasons not attributable to the authorising officer and if the preparatory stages are sufficiently advanced to make it reasonable to surmise that the commitment will be made by no later than 31 March of the following year. 2.
The preparatory stages referred to in Article 9(2)(a) of the Financial Regulation, which should be completed by 31 December of the financial year in order to allow a carryover to the following year, are in particular: (a) for global commitments within the meaning of Article 76 of the Financial Regulation, the adoption of a financing decision or the closing by that date of the consultation of the departments concerned within each institution for the adoption of the decision; (b) for individual commitments within the meaning of Article 76 of the Financial Regulation, the advanced stage of preparation of the contracts or agreements.
Appropriations carried over in accordance with Article 9(2)(a) of the Financial Regulation which have not been committed by 31 March of the following financial year shall be automatically cancelled.
The Commission shall inform the budgetary authority by 15 April of the appropriations cancelled in this way. 4.
Appropriations carried over in accordance with Article 9(2)(b) of the Financial Regulation may be used until 31 December of the following financial year. 5.
CHAPTER 3 (Chapter 4 of the Financial Regulation) Principle of unit of account Article 7 Rate of conversion between the euro and other currencies (Article 16 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
For the purposes of the accounts provided for in Articles 132 to 137 of the Financial Regulation and subject to Article 213, conversion between the euro and another currency shall be made using the monthly accounting rate of the euro.
Article 8 Rate to be used for conversion between the euro and other currencies (Article 16 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
Without prejudice to specific provisions deriving from the application of sectoral regulations, the rate to be used for conversion between the euro and other currencies shall be that of the day on which the payment order or recovery order is drawn up by the authorising department. 2.
In the case of imprest accounts in national currencies, referred to in Article 16 of the Financial Regulation, the rate to be used shall be that of the month of the expenditure from the imprest account. 4.
For expenditure financed by the European Agricultural Guidance and Guarantee Fund (EAGGF), Guarantee Section, the rate to be used for month %quot%n%quot% in respect of which such expenditure has been declared in accordance with Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 296/96(11) shall be that for the tenth day of month %quot%n+1%quot% or for the first preceding day for which a rate is quoted.
That rate shall also be used for the corresponding advances provided for in Articles 4 and 5 of Regulation (EC) No 296/96.
Article 9 Information on cash transfers by the Commission between different currencies (Article 16 of the Financial Regulation) Each quarter the Commission shall send the Member States a statement of transfers carried out between different currencies.
CHAPTER 4 (Chapter 5 of the Financial Regulation) Principle of universality Article 10 Structure to accommodate assigned revenue and provision of corresponding appropriations (Article 18 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The appropriations corresponding to assigned revenue may be made available, both as commitment appropriations and as payment appropriations, when the revenue has been received by the institution, save in the case provided for in Article 161(2) of the Financial Regulation.
They shall be made available automatically save in the case of repayments of payments on account, referred to in Article 156 of the Financial Regulation, and in the case of financial corrections in connection with the Structural Funds.
Article 11 Contributions from Member States to research programmes (Article 18(1)(a) of the Financial Regulation) 1.
Payments made shall be entered in the account provided for in Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1150/2000 and shall be subject to the conditions laid down by that Regulation.
Article 12 Assigned revenue resulting from the participation of EFTA States in certain Community programmes (Article 18(1)(d) of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The annex referred to in point (b)(ii) of the first subparagraph reflects and is part of the structure to accommodate the appropriations corresponding to such participation, as provided for in paragraph 2, and to allow the expenditure to be implemented. 2.
Under Article 82 of the Agreement on the European Economic Area (EEA), the amounts of the annual participation of the EFTA States, as confirmed to the Commission by the EEA Joint Committee in accordance with Article 1(5) of Protocol 32 annexed to that Agreement, shall give rise to the provision, at the start of the financial year, of the full amounts of the corresponding appropriations for commitments and appropriations for payments. 3.
The Commission shall inform the budgetary authority each year of any such decisions taken.
In accordance with Article 18(1)(d) of the Financial Regulation, the financial contributions of the EFTA States shall constitute assigned revenue.
In the report provided for in Article 131(2) of the Financial Regulation, the Commission shall show separately the stage of implementation, in both revenue and expenditure, corresponding to EFTA State participation.
Article 13 Proceeds of sanctions imposed on Member States declared to have an excessive deficit (Article 18(1)(b) of the Financial Regulation) The budget structure to accommodate the proceeds of the sanctions referred to in Section 4 of Council Regulation (EC) No 1467/97(12) shall be as follows: (a) in the statement of revenue, a line carrying a token entry (p.m.) shall be entered to accommodate the interest on such amounts; (b) at the same time, and without prejudice to Article 74 of the Financial Regulation, entry of those amounts in the statement of revenue shall give rise to the provision, in the statement of expenditure, of commitment appropriations and payment appropriations.
These appropriations shall be implemented in accordance with Article 17 of the Financial Regulation.
Article 14 Passing for payment of the net amount (Article 20(1) of the Financial Regulation) Pursuant to Article 20(1) of the Financial Regulation, the following deductions may be made from payment requests, invoices or statements, which shall then be passed for payment of the net amount: (a) penalties imposed on parties to contracts, including procurement contracts; (b) adjustments for amounts paid unduly, which can be made by means of direct deduction against a new payment of the same type to the same payee under the chapter, article and financial year in respect of which the excess payment was made, and which give rise to interim payments or payments of balances.
CHAPTER 5 (Chapter 6 of the Financial Regulation) Principle of specification Article 16 Transfer procedures (Article 22(1) of the Financial Regulation) 1.
Each institution may propose to the budgetary authority, within its own section of the budget, transfers from one title to another exceeding the limit of 10 % of the appropriations for the financial year on the line from which the transfer is to be made.
Those transfers shall be subject to the procedure laid down in Article 24 of the Financial Regulation. 2.
Article 17 Rules concerning the calculation of limits on transfers (Article 23 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The percentages referred to in Article 22(1) and points (b) and (c) of the first subparagraph of Article 23(1) of the Financial Regulation shall be calculated at the time the request for transfer is made. 2.
Article 18 Administrative expenditure (Article 23 of the Financial Regulation) The expenditure referred to in point (b) of the first subparagraph of Article 23(1) of the Financial Regulation shall cover, for each policy area, the items referred to in Article 27.
Article 19 Grounds for requests for transfers of appropriations (Articles 22 and 23 of the Financial Regulation) Proposals for transfers and all information for the budgetary authority concerning transfers made under Articles 22 and 23 of the Financial Regulation shall be accompanied by appropriate and detailed supporting documents showing the implementation of appropriations and estimates of requirements up to the end of the financial year, both for the lines to which the appropriations are to be transferred and for those from which they are to be taken.
Article 20 Grounds for requests for transfers from the emergency aid reserve (Article 26 of the Financial Regulation) Proposals for transfers to allow the utilisation of the emergency aid reserve, referred to in the first subparagraph of Article 26(2) of the Financial Regulation, shall be accompanied by appropriate and detailed supporting documents showing: (a) for the line to which the transfer is to be made, the most recent information available for the implementation of appropriations and the estimate of requirements up to the end of the financial year; (b) for all lines relating to external action, the implementation of appropriations up to the end of the month preceding the request for transfer and an estimate of requirements up to the end of the financial year, including a comparison with the initial estimate; (c) an analysis of the possibilities of reallocating appropriations.
CHAPTER 6 (Chapter 7 of the Financial Regulation) Principle of sound financial management Article 21 Evaluation (Article 27 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
Article 22 Financial statement (Article 28 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
CHAPTER 7 (Chapter 8 of the Financial Regulation) Principle of transparency Article 23 Provisional publication of a summary of the budget (Article 29 of the Financial Regulation) As soon as possible after the final adoption of the budget and within no more than four weeks, a summary of the budget figures shall be published on the Internet site of the institutions, on the Commission's initiative, pending official publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
TITLE III ESTABLISHMENT AND STRUCTURE OF THE BUDGET CHAPTER 1 Establishment of the budget Article 24 General introduction to the preliminary draft budget (Article 33 of the Financial Regulation) The Commission shall draw up the general introduction to the preliminary draft budget.
CHAPTER 2 Structure and presentation of the budget Article 27 Administrative appropriations (Article 41 of the Financial Regulation) Where the statement of expenditure of a section of the budget is presented in a nomenclature based on a classification by purpose, administrative appropriations shall be divided into separate headings by title according to the following classification: (a) expenditure on staff authorised in the establishment plan: there shall be an amount of appropriations and a number of employment posts corresponding to this expenditure; (b) expenditure on external staff (including auxiliary staff and agency staff) and other management expenditure (including representation expenses and meeting expenses); (c) expenditure on buildings and other related expenditure, including cleaning and maintenance, rental and hiring, telecommunications, water, gas and electricity; (d) support expenditure.
Article 28 Actual expenditure in the last financial year for which the accounts have been closed (Article 46(1)(e) of the Financial Regulation) For the purposes of establishing the budget, actual expenditure in the last financial year for which the accounts have been closed shall be determined as follows: (a) in commitments: commitments entered in the accounts during the financial year against appropriations for that financial year as defined in Article 5; (b) in payments: payments made during the financial year, that is to say, for which a payment order has been sent to the bank, against appropriations for that financial year as defined in the same article.
TITLE IV IMPLEMENTATION OF THE BUDGET CHAPTER 1 General provisions Article 31 Possible forms of basic acts (Article 49(1) of the Financial Regulation) 1.
In the Community field, a basic act may take the form of a regulation, a directive, a decision(13) within the meaning of Article 249 of the EC Treaty or a decision sui generis. 2.
In the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters a basic act may take one of the forms specified in Article 34(2) of the Treaty on European Union.
Article 32 Maximum amounts for pilot schemes and preparatory actions (Article 49(2)(a) and (b) of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The total amount of appropriations for the pilot schemes referred to in Article 49(2)(a) of the Financial Regulation may not exceed EUR 32 million in any budget year. 2.
The total amount of appropriations for new preparatory actions referred to in Article 49(2)(b) of the Financial Regulation may not exceed EUR 30 million in any budget year, and the total amount of appropriations actually committed for preparatory actions may not exceed EUR 75 million.
Article 33 Specific powers of the Commission under the Treaties (Article 49(2)(c) of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The articles of the EC Treaty which directly confer specific powers on the Commission are as follows: (a) Article 138 (social dialogue); (b) Article 140 (studies, opinions and consultations on social matters); (c) Articles 143 and 145 (special reports on social matters); (d) Article 152(2) (initiatives to promote coordination on health protection matters); (e) Article 155(2) (initiatives to promote coordination on trans-European networks); (f) Article 157(2) (initiatives to promote coordination on matters relating to industry); (g) Article 159, second paragraph (report on progress made towards achieving economic and social cohesion); (h) Article 165(2) (initiatives to promote coordination on research and technological development); (i) Article 173 (report on research and technological development); (j) Article 180(2) (initiatives to promote coordination of development cooperation policies). 2.
The articles of the Euratom Treaty which directly confer specific powers on the Commission are as follows: (a) Article 70 (financial support, within the limits set by the budget, for prospecting programmes in the territories of the Member States); (b) Article 77 et seq. (safeguards). 3.
Article 34 Definition of a conflict of interests (Article 52(2) of the Financial Regulation) 1.
CHAPTER 2 Methods of implementation Section 1 General provisions Article 35 Prior checks carried out by the Commission (Articles 53 and 56 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The Commission shall, as appropriate, set out those obligations in the instruments of delegation or in the agreements concluded with those entities. 4.
Section 2 Special provisions Article 36 Direct centralised management (Article 53 of the Financial Regulation) Where the Commission implements the budget on a centralised basis directly in its departments, implementation tasks shall be performed by the financial actors within the meaning of Articles 58 to 68 of the Financial Regulation and in compliance with the conditions laid down in this Regulation.
Article 38 Eligibility of national public-sector bodies or private-law entities with a public-service mission and conditions for delegation of powers to them (Article 54(2)(c) of the Financial Regulation) 1.
Where the Commission is planning to entrust tasks involving the exercise of public authority, and in particular tasks of budget implementation, to a body referred to in point (c) of Article 54(2) of the Financial Regulation, it shall analyse compliance with the principles of economy, effectiveness and efficiency.
If that analysis shows that delegation best satisfies the requirements of sound financial management, the Commission shall, before proceeding to implement the delegation, request the opinion of the competent committee provided for in the basic act, which may also give its opinion on the planned application of the selection criteria.
Article 39 Designation of national public-sector bodies or private-law entities with a public-service mission (Article 54(2)(c) of the Financial Regulation) 1.
In cases of management by a network, requiring the designation of at least one body or entity by Member State or by country concerned, the body or entity shall be designated by the Member State or the country concerned in accordance with the provisions of the basic act.
Article 40 Compliance with the procurement rules (Article 57 of the Financial Regulation) Where the Commission entrusts tasks to private bodies under Article 57(2) of the Financial Regulation, it shall conclude a contract in accordance with the provisions of Title V of Part One of the Financial Regulation.
Article 41 Detailed arrangements for indirect centralised management (Articles 54(2)(b) and (c) of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The agreement referred to in paragraph 1 shall include the following provisions: (a) a definition of the tasks assigned; (b) the conditions and detailed arrangements for performing the tasks, including appropriate provisions for demarcating responsibilities and organising the controls to be carried out; (c) the rules on reporting to the Commission on how the tasks are performed; (d) the conditions under which performance of the tasks terminates; (e) the detailed arrangements for Commission scrutiny; (f) the conditions governing the use of separate bank accounts, the beneficiary of the interest yielded and the use made of it; (g) the provisions guaranteeing the visibility of Community action in relation to the other activities of the body; (h) an undertaking to refrain from any act which may give rise to a conflict of interests within the meaning of Article 52(2) of the Financial Regulation. 3.
The purpose of the clearance-of-accounts procedure referred to in Article 53(5) of the Financial Regulation shall be to ensure that expenditure by the Member States in the context of shared management or by third countries in the context of decentralised management and which may be chargeable to the Community budget is in order and consistent with the applicable Community rules. 2.
Article 43 Joint management (Articles 53 and 165 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The appropriations used in joint management with international organisations within the meaning of Articles 53 and 165 of the Financial Regulation shall finance actions, performance of which requires the pooling of resources from a number of donors, where it is not reasonably possible or appropriate to assign the share contributed by each donor to each type of expenditure.
CHAPTER 3 Financial actors Section 1 Rights and obligations of the financial actors Article 44 Rights and obligations of the financial actors (Article 58 of the Financial Regulation) Each institution shall provide each financial actor with the resources required to perform his duties and a charter describing in detail his tasks, rights and obligations.
Section 2 Authorising officer Article 45 Assistance for authorising officers by delegation and subdelegation (Article 59 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
In order to prevent any conflict of interests, staff assisting authorising officers by delegation or subdelegation shall be subject to the obligations referred to in Article 52 of the Financial Regulation. 2.
Each institution shall inform the budgetary authority whenever a grade A1 authorising officer by delegation takes up his duties, changes duties or terminates his duties.
Article 46 Internal provisions governing delegations (Article 59 of the Financial Regulation) In accordance with the Financial Regulation and this Regulation, each institution shall lay down in its internal rules such measures for the management of appropriations as it considers necessary for proper implementation of its section of the budget.
Article 47 Segregation of duties of initiation and verification of an operation (Article 60(4) of the Financial Regulation) 1.
Initiation of an operation shall be understood to mean all the operations which are normally carried out by the staff referred to in Article 45 and which are preparatory to the adoption of the acts implementing the budget by the competent authorising officer, holder of a delegation or a subdelegation. 2.
Ex ante verification of an operation shall be understood to mean all the ex ante checks put in place by the authorising officer responsible in order to verify its operational and financial aspects. 3.
Each operation shall be subject at least to an ex ante verification.
These verifications may be organised on a sample basis using risk analysis. 5.
Article 48 Management and internal control procedures (Article 60(4) of the Financial Regulation) The management and internal control systems and procedures shall be designed to: (a) achieve the objectives of the policies, programmes and actions of the institution in accordance with the principle of sound financial management; (b) comply with the rules of Community law and minimum control standards established by the institution; (c) safeguard the institution's assets and information; (d) prevent and detect irregularities, errors and fraud; (e) identify and prevent management risks; (f) ensure reliable production of financial and management information; (g) keep supporting documents relating to and subsequent to budget implementation and budget implementation measures; (h) keep documents relating to advance guarantees for the institution and keep a log to enable such guarantees to be adequately monitored.
Article 49 Keeping of supporting documents by authorising officers (Article 60(4) of the Financial Regulation) The management systems and procedures concerning the keeping of original supporting documents shall provide for: (a) such documents to be numbered; (b) such documents to be dated; (c) registers, which may be computerised, to be kept identifying the exact location of such documents; (d) such documents to be kept for at least five years from the date on which the European Parliament grants discharge for the budgetary year to which the documents relate.
Article 50 Code of professional standards (Article 60(5) of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The staff designated by the authorising officer responsible to verify financial operations shall be chosen on the grounds of their knowledge, skills and particular qualifications as evidenced by diplomas or by appropriate professional experience, or after an appropriate training programme. 2.
Each institution shall draw up a code of professional standards which determine, on matters of internal control: (a) the level of technical and financial competence required of the staff referred to in paragraph 1; (b) the obligation for such staff to undergo continuing training; (c) the mission, role and tasks allocated to them; (d) the rules of conduct, in particular the standards of ethics and integrity that they must comply with and the rights they enjoy. 3.
Article 51 Failure of the authorising officer by delegation to take action (Article 60(6) of the Financial Regulation) Failure by the authorising officer by delegation to take action, as referred to in Article 60(6) of the Financial Regulation, shall mean the absence of any reply within a reasonable time given the circumstances of the case and, at all events, within a month at most.
Article 52 Ex post verification and annual activity report (Article 60(7) of the Financial Regulation) The result of the ex post verifications shall, with other matters, be set out in the annual activity report submitted by the authorising officer by delegation to his institution.
Article 53 Transmission of financial and management information to the accounting officer (Article 60 of the Financial Regulation) The authorising officer by delegation shall send the accounting officer, in accordance with the rules adopted by the latter, the financial and management information required for the performance of the accounting officer's duties.
Article 54 Report on negotiated procedures (Article 60 of the Financial Regulation) Authorising officers by delegation shall record, for each financial year, contracts concluded by the negotiated procedures referred to in Articles 126, 127, 242, 244, 246 and 247.
If the proportion of negotiated procedures in relation to the number of contracts awarded by the same authorising officer by delegation increases appreciably in relation to earlier years or if that proportion is distinctly higher than the average recorded for the institution, the authorising officer responsible shall report to the institution setting out any measures taken to reverse that trend.
Each institution shall send a report on negotiated procedures to the budgetary authority.
Section 3 Accounting officer Article 55 Appointment of the accounting officer (Article 61 of the Financial Regulation) Each institution shall appoint an accounting officer from officials subject to the Staff Regulations of Officials of the European Communities.
Article 56 Termination of duties of the accounting officer (Article 61 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
That statement shall be made up of the accounts provided for in Title VII of Part One of the Financial Regulation, closed on the last day of the month in which the accounting officer terminates his duties. 2.
No interim statement of account shall be required where the accounting officer terminates his duties at the end of a financial year. 3.
The interim statement or, in the circumstances referred to in paragraph 2, the provisional accounts referred to in Article 128 of the Financial Regulation shall be transmitted by the accounting officer who is terminating his duties or, if this is not possible, by an official in his department to the new accounting officer, who, within no more than one month from the date of transmission, must sign in acceptance and may make reservations. 4.
Each institution shall inform the budgetary authority of the appointment or termination of duties of its accounting officer.
Article 57 Opinion on accounting and inventory systems (Article 61 of the Financial Regulation) Where financial management systems set up by the authorising officer provide data for the institution's accounts or are used to substantiate data in those accounts, the accounting officer must give his agreement to the introduction or modification of such systems.
The accounting officer shall also be consulted regarding the introduction or modification by the authorising officers responsible of inventory systems and systems for valuing assets and liabilities.
Article 58 Treasury management (Article 61 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The accounting officer shall ensure that his institution has at its disposal sufficient funds to cover the cash requirements arising from budgetary implementation. 2.
For the purposes of paragraph 1, the accounting officer shall set up cash management systems enabling him to draw up cash-flow forecasts. 3.
The Commission's accounting officer shall divide up the funds available in accordance with Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1150/2000.
Article 59 Management of bank accounts (Article 61 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The accounting officer shall negotiate the operating terms for accounts with financial institutions, in accordance with the principles of sound financial management, efficiency and competitive tendering. 3.
At least every five years the accounting officer shall relaunch competitive tendering between financial institutions with which accounts have been opened. 4.
The accounting officer shall ensure strict compliance with the operating terms for accounts opened with financial institutions. 5.
The Commission's accounting officer shall be responsible, after consulting the accounting officers of the other institutions, for harmonising the operating terms for accounts opened by the various institutions.
Article 61 Management of account balances (Article 61 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The accounting officer shall ensure that the balance on the bank accounts provided for in Article 59 does not deviate significantly from the cash-flow forecasts referred to in Article 58(2) and in any event: (a) that none of those accounts is in debit; (b) that the balance of accounts held in other currencies is periodically converted into euro. 2.
The accounting officer may not maintain balances in foreign currency accounts which might cause excessive losses to the institution as a result of exchange rate fluctuations.
Article 62 Transfers and conversion operations (Article 61 of the Financial Regulation) Without prejudice to Article 69, the accounting officer shall conduct transfers between accounts opened in the name of the institution with financial institutions, and conduct currency conversion operations.
Article 63 Methods of payment (Article 61 of the Financial Regulation) Payments shall be made by bank credit transfer or by cheque.
Article 64 Third-party files (Article 61 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
In connection with pre-accession aid, individual commitments may be concluded with the public authorities in the countries applying for accession to the European Union without a prior entry in the third-party file.
Article 65 Keeping of supporting documents by the accounting officer (Article 61 of the Financial Regulation) Supporting documents for the accounting system and for the preparation of the accounts referred to in Article 121 of the Financial Regulation shall be kept for at least five years from the date on which the European Parliament grants discharge for the budgetary year to which the documents relate.
Section 4 Imprest administrator Article 66 Conditions of use of imprest accounts (Article 63 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The creation of an imprest account and the appointment of an imprest administrator shall be the subject of a decision by the accounting officer, on a duly substantiated proposal from the authorising officer responsible.
Amendment of the operating terms for an imprest account shall also be the subject of a decision by the accounting officer on a duly substantiated proposal from the authorising officer responsible.
Article 67 Conditions governing creation and payment (Article 63 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The decision setting up an imprest account and appointing an imprest administrator and the decision amending the operating terms for an imprest account shall specify in particular: (a) the maximum amount which may be initially provided as an imprest, and its purpose; (b) whether a bank account or post office giro account is to be opened in the name of the institution; (c) the nature and maximum amount of each item of expenditure which may be paid by the imprest administrator to third parties or collected from them; (d) the frequency with which supporting documents must be produced, the procedure for producing them and the arrangements for transmitting them to the authorising officer for settlement; (e) the procedure to be followed if the imprest has to be replenished; (f) that imprest transactions will be settled by the authorising officer by no later than the end of the following month, so that the accounting balance and the bank balance can be reconciled; (g) the period of validity of the authorisation given to the imprest administrator by the accounting officer; (h) the identity of the appointed imprest administrator. 2.
Payments from imprest accounts may be made by bank credit transfer, cheque or other means of payment. 5.
Article 69 Endowment of imprest accounts (Article 63 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The accounting officer shall endow the imprest accounts.
The imprest shall be settled, in terms of expenditure or miscellaneous or assigned revenue, in accordance with the decision setting up the imprest account referred to in Article 67 and the provisions of the Financial Regulation.
The amounts in question shall be deducted by the authorising officer when he subsequently replenishes the imprest accounts concerned. 2.
In order, in particular, to avoid any exchange losses, the imprest administrator may make transfers between different bank accounts relating to the same imprest.
Article 70 Checks by authorising officers and accounting officers (Article 63 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The imprest administrator shall keep an account of the funds at his disposal, in cash and at the bank, and of payments made and amounts received, in accordance with the rules and on the instructions given by the accounting officer.
Statements of that account shall be accessible at all times to the authorising officer responsible and a monthly list of transactions together with supporting documents shall be sent in the following month by the imprest administrator to the authorising officer for settlement of the imprest operations. 2.
Article 71 Procurement procedure (Article 63 of the Financial Regulation) Payments made from imprest accounts may, within the limits laid down in Article 129(4), consist simply in the payment of costs against invoices, without prior acceptance of a tender.
Section 2 Rules applicable to authorising officers by delegation and subdelegation Article 73 Confirmation of instructions (Article 66(2) of the Financial Regulation) 1.
If the instruction is confirmed in writing and that confirmation is received in good time and is sufficiently clear, in that it refers explicitly to the points which the authorising officer by delegation or subdelegation has challenged, he may not be held liable; he shall carry out the instruction, unless it constitutes a breach of criminal law or of the relevant safety standards. 2.
Any instructions confirmed in the circumstances described in Article 66(2) of the Financial Regulation shall be recorded by the authorising officer by delegation responsible and mentioned in his annual activity report.
Article 74 Financial irregularities (Articles 60(6) and 66(4) of the Financial Regulation) Without prejudice to the powers of the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF), the specialised financial irregularities panel shall be competent in respect of any infringement of a provision of the Financial Regulation or of a provision relating to financial management or the checking of operations resulting from an act or omission of an official or other servant.
Article 75 Financial irregularities panel (Articles 60(6) and 66(4) of the Financial Regulation) 1.
CHAPTER 5 Revenue operations Section 1 Own resources Article 76 Rules applying to own resources (Article 69 of the Financial Regulation) The authorising officer shall draw up a schedule indicating when the own resources defined in the Decision on the system of the European Communities' own resources will be made available to the Commission.
Section 2 Estimate of amounts receivable Article 77 Estimate of amounts receivable (Article 70 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
In the cases referred to in Article 18 of the Financial Regulation, appropriations may be made available only after the sums due have actually been recovered by the Communities.
Section 3 Establishment of amounts receivable Article 78 Procedure (Article 71 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The establishment by the authorising officer responsible of an amount receivable shall constitute recognition of the right of the Communities in respect of a debtor and establishment of entitlement to demand that the debtor pay the debt. 2.
The recovery order shall be the operation by which the authorising officer responsible instructs the accounting officer to recover the amount established. 3.
The debit note shall be to inform the debtor that: (a) the Communities have established the amount receivable; (b) payment of the debt to the Communities is due on a certain date (hereinafter %quot%the due date%quot%); (c) failing payment by the due date the debt shall bear interest at the rate referred to in Article 86, without prejudice to any specific regulations applicable; (d) wherever possible the institution shall effect recovery by offsetting after the debtor has been informed; (e) failing payment by the due date the institution shall effect recovery by enforcement of any guarantee lodged in advance; (f) if, after all those steps have been taken, the amount has not been recovered in full, the institution shall effect recovery by enforcement of a decision secured either in accordance with Article 72(2) of the Financial Regulation or by legal action.
Article 79 Establishment of amounts receivable (Article 71 of the Financial Regulation) To establish an amount receivable the authorising officer responsible shall ensure that: (a) the receivable is certain and not subject to any condition; (b) the receivable is of fixed amount, expressed precisely in cash terms; (c) the receivable is due and is not subject to any payment time; (d) the particulars of the debtor are correct; (e) the amount to be recovered is booked to the correct budget item; (f) the supporting documents are in order; and (g) the principle of sound financial management is complied with, in particular with regard to the criteria referred to in point (a) of Article 87(1).
Article 80 Supporting documents for the establishment of amounts receivable (Article 71 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
Before establishing an amount receivable the authorising officer responsible shall personally check the supporting documents or, on his own responsibility, shall ascertain that this has been done. 3.
The supporting documents shall be kept by the authorising officer in accordance with Articles 48 and 49.
Section 4 Authorisation of recovery Article 81 Establishment of the recovery order (Article 72 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The recovery order shall specify: (a) the financial year to which the revenue is to be booked; (b) the references of the act or legal commitment which is the source of the debt and gives rise to the entitlement to recovery; (c) the budget article and any other subdivision that may apply, including, where appropriate, the references of the corresponding budget commitment; (d) the amount to be recovered, expressed in euro; (e) the name and address of the debtor; (f) the due date; and (g) the possible method of recovery, including in particular recovery by offsetting or enforcement of any guarantee lodged. 2.
Section 5 Recovery Article 82 Collection formalities (Article 73 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
A receipt shall be issued in respect of any cash payments made to the accounting officer or imprest administrator.
Article 83 Recovery by offsetting (Article 73 of the Financial Regulation) At any point in the procedure the accounting officer shall, after informing the authorising officer responsible and the debtor, recover established amounts receivable by offsetting in cases where the debtor also has a claim on the Communities that is certain, of a fixed amount and due relating to a sum established by a payment order.
Article 84 Recovery procedure failing voluntary payment (Articles 72 and 73 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
Without prejudice to Article 83, if the full amount has not been recovered by the due date specified in the debit note, the accounting officer shall inform the authorising officer responsible and shall without delay launch the procedure for effecting recovery by any means offered by the law, including, where appropriate, by enforcement of any guarantee lodged in advance. 2.
Without prejudice to Article 83, where the recovery method referred to in paragraph 1 cannot be used and the debtor has failed to pay in response to the letter of formal notice sent by the accounting officer, the accounting officer shall enforce a recovery decision secured either in accordance with Article 72(2) of the Financial Regulation or by legal action.
Article 85 Additional time for payment (Article 73 of the Financial Regulation) The accounting officer, in collaboration with the authorising officer responsible, may allow additional time for payment only at the written request of the debtor, with due indication of the reasons, and provided that the following two conditions are fulfilled: (a) the debtor undertakes to pay interest at the rate specified in Article 86 for the entire additional period allowed, starting from the date on which the payment was originally due; and (b) in order to safeguard the Community's rights, the debtor lodges a financial guarantee covering the debt outstanding in both the principal sum and the interest, which is accepted by the institution's accounting officer.
The guarantee referred to in point (b) of the first paragraph may be replaced by a joint and several guarantee by a third party approved by the institution's accounting officer.
Without prejudice to any specific provisions deriving from the application of sectoral rules, any amount receivable not repaid on the due date shall bear interest in accordance with paragraphs 2 and 3. 2.
The interest rate for amounts receivable not repaid on the due date shall be the rate applied by the European Central Bank to its principal refinancing operations, as published in the C series of the Official Journal of the European Communities, in force on the first calendar day of the month in which the due date falls, increased by: (a) seven percentage points where the obligating event is a public supply and service contract referred to in Title V; (b) three and a half percentage points in all other cases. 3.
Interest shall be calculated from the calendar day following the due date specified in the debit note up to the calendar day on which the debt is repaid in full. 4.
Any partial payments shall first cover the interest determined in accordance with paragraphs 2 and 3. 5.
In the case of fines, where the debtor provides a financial guarantee which is accepted by the accounting officer in lieu of provisional payment, the interest rate applicable from the due date shall be the rate referred to in paragraph 2 increased by only one and a half percentage points.
Article 87 Waiving of recovery of an established amount receivable (Article 73 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The authorising officer responsible shall waive recovery in accordance with the procedure provided for in Article 81. 4.
The waiving of recovery of an established amount receivable may not be delegated by the institution where the amount to be waived: (a) is EUR 1000000 or more; or (b) is EUR 100000 or more, where this represents 25 % or more of the established amount receivable.
Each institution shall send to the budgetary authority each year a report on the waivers referred to in paragraphs 1 to 4 involving EUR 100000 or more.
Article 88 Cancellation of an established amount receivable (Article 73 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
In the event of a mistake as to a point of law, the authorising officer responsible shall cancel the established amount receivable in accordance with Articles 80 and 81; cancellation shall be suitably substantiated. 2.
Each institution shall lay down in its internal rules the conditions and procedure for delegating the power to cancel an established amount receivable.
Article 89 Technical and accounting adjustment of an established amount receivable (Article 73 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The authorising officer responsible shall adjust the established amount receivable upwards or downwards if the discovery of an error of fact necessitates the alteration of the amount, provided that the correction does not imply relinquishment of the Communities' established entitlement.
Such adjustment shall be made in accordance with Articles 80 and 81 and shall be suitably substantiated. 2.
Each institution shall lay down in its internal rules the conditions and procedure for delegating the power to make a technical and accounting adjustment of an established amount receivable.
Section 1 Commitment of expenditure Article 91 Global and provisional commitments (Article 76(2) of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The global budget commitment shall be implemented either by the conclusion of a financing agreement, itself providing for the subsequent conclusion of one or more legal commitments, or by the conclusion of one or more legal commitments.
The provisional budget commitment shall be implemented either by the conclusion of one or more legal commitments giving rise to an entitlement to subsequent payments or, in cases relating to expenditure on staff management or on communications activities engaged in by the institutions for the coverage of Community events on communication activities performed by the Institutions and aimed at covering community events, directly by payments.
Article 92 Adoption of a global commitment (Article 76 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
Article 94 Single signature (Article 76 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The rule that there be a single signatory for the budget commitment and the corresponding legal commitment may be departed from in the following cases alone: (a) where the commitments are provisional; (b) where global commitments relate to financing agreements with third countries; (c) where the institution's decision constitutes the legal commitment; (d) where the global commitment is implemented by a number of legal commitments, for which different authorising officers by delegation are responsible; (e) where, in connection with imprest accounts available for external action, legal commitments must be signed by members of staff of the local units referred to in Article 254. 2.
If the authorising officer responsible who signed the budget commitment is not available and remains unavailable for a period incompatible with the time-limits for concluding the legal commitment, that legal commitment shall be concluded by the person designated under the deputisation rules adopted by each institution, provided that that person has the status of authorising officer in accordance with Article 59(2) of the Financial Regulation.
Article 95 Registration of individual legal commitments (Article 77 of the Financial Regulation) In the case of a global budget commitment followed by several individual legal commitments, the authorising officer responsible shall register in the central accounts the amounts of these successive individual legal commitments.
Section 2 Validation of expenditure Article 97 Validation and %quot%passing for payment%quot% (Article 79 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
Validation of any expenditure shall be based on supporting documents within the meaning of Article 104 attesting the creditor's entitlement, on the basis of a statement of services actually rendered, supplies actually delivered or work actually carried out, or on the basis of other documents justifying payment. 2.
The validation decision shall be expressed by the signing of a %quot%passed for payment%quot% voucher by the authorising officer responsible or by an official or other servant technically competent, empowered by formal decision of the authorising officer.
Article 99 Passing for payment of grants (Article 79 of the Financial Regulation) For payments corresponding to grants, the endorsement %quot%passed for payment%quot% shall certify that: (a) the institution has received and formally registered a payment request drawn up by the beneficiary; (b) the payment request itself, or an internal document accompanying the payment request received, has been endorsed %quot%certified correct%quot% and signed by an official or other servant technically competent, empowered by the authorising officer responsible; by such endorsement, he certifies that the action or work programme carried out by the beneficiary is in all respects in compliance with the grant agreement; (c) all aspects of the payment request have been checked by the authorising officer responsible or on his responsibility with a view to determining in particular the amount to be paid and the validity of the payment as discharge of the debt.
Article 101 Material form of %quot%passed for payment%quot% (Article 79 of the Financial Regulation) In a non-computerised system, %quot%passed for payment%quot% shall take the form of a stamp incorporating the signature of the authorising officer responsible or of an official or other servant technically competent, empowered by the authorising officer responsible in accordance with Article 97.
Article 103 Mandatory details on payment orders and transmission to the accounting officer (Article 80 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The payment order shall state: (a) the financial year to which the expenditure is to be booked; (b) the budget article and any other subdivision that may apply; (c) the references of the legal commitment giving rise to an entitlement to payment; (d) the references of the budget commitment against which it is to be booked; (e) the amount to be paid, expressed in euro; (f) the name, address and bank account details of the payee; (g) the object of the expenditure; (h) the means of payment; (i) the entry of items in the inventory in accordance with Article 222. 2.
The payment order shall be dated and signed by the authorising officer responsible, then sent to the accounting officer.
Section 4 Payment of expenditure Article 104 Supporting documents (Article 81 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
Pre-financing, including in cases where it is split into a number of payments, shall be paid either on the basis of the contract, the agreement or the basic act, or on the basis of supporting documents which make it possible to check the conformity of the actions financed with the terms of the contract or agreement in question.
Interim payments and payments of balances shall be based on supporting documents which make it possible to check that the action financed has been carried out in accordance with the terms of the contract or agreement concluded with the beneficiary or of the basic act. 2.
The authorising officer responsible shall lay down, in compliance with the principle of sound financial management, the nature of the supporting documents referred to in paragraph 1 in accordance with the basic act and the contracts and agreements concluded with the beneficiary.
The supporting documents shall be kept by the authorising officer responsible in accordance with Articles 48 and 49.
Article 105 Booking of pre-financing and interim payments (Article 81 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
It may clear pre-financing in whole or in part, without prejudice to the provisions of the basic act. 3.
Section 5 Time limits for expenditure operations Article 106 Payment time limits and default interest (Article 83 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The payment period referred to in paragraph 1 shall be thirty calendar days for payments relating to service or supply contracts, save where the contract provides otherwise. 3.
For contracts or agreements under which payment depends on approval of a report, time for the purposes of the payment periods referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not begin to run until the report in question has been approved, either explicitly with the beneficiary being informed, or implicitly because the time allowed by the contract for approval has expired without being suspended by means of a formal document sent to the beneficiary.
The time allowed for approval may not exceed: (a) 20 calendar days for straightforward contracts relating to the supply of goods and services; (b) 45 calendar days for other contracts and grant agreements; (c) 60 calendar days for contracts involving technical services which are particularly complex to evaluate. 4.
The first subparagraph shall not apply to Member States.
CHAPTER 7 IT Systems Article 107 Description of IT systems (Article 84 of the Financial Regulation) Where computer systems and subsystems are used to process budget implementation operations, a full and up-to-date description of each system or subsystem shall be required.
Article 108 Periodical save (Article 84 of the Financial Regulation) The data in computer systems and subsystems shall be saved periodically and kept in a safe place.
CHAPTER 8 Internal auditor Article 109 Appointment of the internal auditor (Article 85 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
Article 110 Operational resources (Article 86 of the Financial Regulation) The institution shall provide the internal auditor with the resources required for the proper performance of his audit function and a mission charter detailing his tasks, duties and obligations.
Article 111 Work programme (Article 86 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The institution may ask the internal auditor to carry out audits not included in the work programme referred to in paragraph 1.
Article 112 Reports of the internal auditor (Article 86 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
Article 113 Independence (Article 87 of the Financial Regulation) The internal auditor shall enjoy complete independence in the conduct of his audits.
Article 114 Liability of the internal auditor (Article 87 of the Financial Regulation) The institution alone, proceeding in accordance with this Article, may act to have the internal auditor, as an official or other servant subject to the Staff Regulations, declared liable for his actions.
On the basis of the report and the hearing, the institution shall adopt either a reasoned decision terminating the proceedings or a reasoned decision in accordance with Articles 22 and 86 to 89 of the Staff Regulations.
Article 115 Action before the Court of Justice of the European Communities (Article 87 of the Financial Regulation) Without prejudice to the remedies allowed by the Staff Regulations, the internal auditor may bring an action directly before the Court of Justice of the European Communities in respect of any act relating to the performance of his duties as internal auditor.
TITLE V PROCUREMENT CHAPTER 1 General provisions Section 1 Scope and award principles Article 116 Definitions and scope (Article 88 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The delivery of products may in addition include siting, installation and maintenance. 3.
A contract covering both products and services shall be considered a service contract where the value of the services in question exceeds that of the products included in the contract. 6.
Article 117 Framework contracts and specific contracts (Article 88 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The specifications referred to in Article 130 shall then specify the maximum number of operators with whom the contracting authority will conclude contracts.
The duration of framework contracts may not exceed four years, save in exceptional cases justified in particular by the subject of the framework contract.
Specific contracts based on the framework contracts referred to in paragraph 1 shall be awarded in accordance with the terms laid down in the framework contract. 3.
Section 2 Publication Article 118 Advertising of contracts covered by the public procurement directives (Article 90 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The pre-information notice shall be the notice by which the contracting authorities make known, by way of indication, the estimated total value of contracts, by category of service or groups of products, and the essential characteristics of works contracts which they intend to award during a budgetary year, where the estimated total value is equal to or greater than the thresholds laid down in Article 157.
The pre-information notice shall be sent to the Office for Official Publications of the European Communities as soon as possible and by no later than 31 March of each budgetary year in the case of supply and service contracts and, in the case of works contracts, as soon as possible after the decision approving the programme for those contracts. 3.
It shall be compulsory for contracts of an estimated value equal to or greater than the thresholds laid down in points (a) and (c) of Article 158(1).
Article 119 Advertising of contracts not covered by the public procurement directives (Article 90 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
Contracts with a value below the thresholds provided for in Articles 157 and 158 and the service contracts referred to in Annex IB to Council Directive 92/50/EEC shall be advertised by appropriate means in order to ensure competitive tendering and impartiality of the procurement procedure.
Such advertising shall involve: (a) if no contract notice as referred to in Article 118(3) has been published, notice of a call for expressions of interest for contracts covering a similar subject with a value equal to or greater than the amount referred to in Article 128(1); (b) the annual publication of a list of contractors, specifying the subject and the value of the contract awarded. 2.
Ex ante advertising and the annual publication of the list of contractors for the other contracts shall be on the Internet site of the institutions; ex post publication shall take place by no later than 31 March of the following financial year.
Publication may also be in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Article 120 Publication of notices (Article 90 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
That period shall be reduced to five calendar days in the case of the fast-track procedures referred to in Article 142 and if the notices have been prepared and sent electronically. 2.
Article 121 Other forms of advertising (Article 90 of the Financial Regulation) In addition to the advertising provided for in Articles 118, 119 and 120, contracts may be advertised in any other way, notably in electronic form.
Any such advertising shall refer to the notice published in the Official Journal of the European Communities, as provided for in Article 120, if one has been published, and may not precede the publication of that notice, which alone is authentic.
Section 3 Procurement procedures Article 122 Types of procurement procedure (Article 91 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
Contracts shall be awarded by call for tender, using the open, restricted or negotiated procedure after publication of a contract notice or by negotiated procedure without prior publication of a contract notice, where appropriate following a contest. 2.
The selection phase may be repeated for each individual contract or may involve drawing up a list of potential candidates under the procedure referred to in Article 128. 3.
In negotiated procedures where a contract notice is published, as referred to in Article 127, the contracting authorities shall simultaneously and in writing invite the selected candidates to negotiate. 4.
Article 123 Number of candidates in restricted or negotiated procedures (Article 91 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
In such cases, the range and criteria shall be indicated in the contract notice or the call for expressions of interest referred to in Articles 118 and 119.
In any event, the number of candidates invited to tender must be sufficient to ensure genuine competition. 2.
In negotiated procedures the number of candidates invited to negotiate may not be less than three, provided that a sufficient number of candidates satisfy the selection criteria.
In any event, the number of candidates invited to tender must be sufficient to ensure genuine competition.
The second subparagraph shall not apply to contracts involving very small amounts, as referred to in Article 129(3).
Article 124 Arrangements for negotiated procedures (Article 91 of the Financial Regulation) Contracting authorities shall negotiate with tenderers the tenders they have submitted in order to adapt them to the requirements set out in the contract notice referred to in Article 118 or in the specifications and in any additional documents and in order to find the tender offering best value for money.
Article 125 Contests (Article 91 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The number of candidates invited to take part must be sufficient to ensure genuine competition. 2.
Article 126 Use of a negotiated procedure without prior publication of a contract notice (Article 91 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The aggregate value of additional contracts may not exceed 50 % of the amount of the initial contract. 3.
In the cases referred to in point (f) of paragraph 1, the option of using the negotiated procedure shall be pointed out as soon as the first contract is put out to competitive tender, and the total estimated cost of the additional contracts shall be taken into consideration in calculating the thresholds referred to in Article 158.
Article 127 Use of a negotiated procedure after prior publication of a contract notice (Article 91 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
In the cases referred to in point (a) of paragraph 1, contracting authorities may refrain from publishing a contract notice if they include in the negotiated procedure all the tenderers who satisfy the selection criteria and who, during the previous procedure, submitted tenders in accordance with the formal requirements of the procurement procedure.
Article 128 Restricted procedure involving a call for expressions of interest (Article 91 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
A call for expressions of interest shall constitute a means of preselecting candidates who will be invited to submit tenders in response to future restricted invitations to tender for contracts of a value of EUR 50000 or more, subject to Articles 126 and 127. 2.
The list drawn up following a call for expressions of interest shall be valid for no more than three years from the date on which the notice referred to in point (a) of Article 119(1) is sent to the Office for Official Publications of the European Communities.
Article 129 Low-value contracts (Article 91 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
A restricted procedure with at least five candidates being consulted but without a call for expressions of interest may be used for contracts with a value of less than EUR 50000, subject to Articles 126 and 127. 2.
The negotiated procedure with at least three candidates may be used for contracts with a value of less than EUR 13800. 3.
Contracts with a value of less than EUR 1050 may be awarded on the basis of a single tender by a negotiated procedure. 4.
Payments made from imprest accounts or for expenditure related to communications activities engaged in by the institutions for the coverage of Community events may consist simply in the payment of costs against invoices, without prior acceptance of a tender, where the expenditure is less than EUR 200.
Article 130 Documents relating to the invitation to tender (Article 92 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The documents relating to the invitation to tender shall contain a reference to the advertising measures taken under Articles 118 to 121. 2.
The invitation to tender shall at least: (a) specify the rules governing the lodging and presentation of tenders, including in particular the closing date and time for submission, any requirement as to the use of a standard reply form, the documents to be attached, including those in evidence of financial, economic, technical and professional capacity referred to in Article 135, and the address to which they must be sent; (b) state that submission of the tender implies acceptance of the specifications and of the general terms and conditions referred to in paragraph 1 to which the tender relates and that this submission binds the contractor to whom the contract is awarded during performance of the contract; (c) specify the period during which a tender will remain valid and may not be varied in any respect; (d) forbid any contact between the contracting authority and the tenderer during the procedure, save, exceptionally, under the conditions laid down in Article 148, and, where provision is made for an on-the-spot visit, specify the arrangements for such a visit. 3.
The specifications shall at least: (a) specify the exclusion and selection criteria applying to the contract, save in the restricted procedure and in the negotiated procedures following publication of a notice referred to in Article 127; in such cases those criteria shall appear solely in the contract notice or the call for expressions of interest; (b) specify the award criteria and their relative weighting, if this is not specified in the contract notice; (c) set out the technical specifications referred to in Article 131; (d) state the minimum requirements which variants must meet in the procedures provided for in Article 138(2) under which the contract is awarded to the tender offering best value for money, where the contracting authority has not stated in the contract notice that such variants are not permitted; (e) state that the Protocol on Privileges and Immunities or, where appropriate, the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations or Consular Relations applies; (f) specify the evidence of access to contracts, as set out in Article 159. 4.
The contracting authorities may demand information from the tenderer on any part of the contract that the tenderer may intend to subcontract to third parties and on the identity of any subcontractors.
Article 131 Technical specifications (Article 92 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The technical specifications shall be formulated as follows: (a) by reference to European standards, or to European technical approvals or common technical specifications, where such exist, to international standards or to other technical reference material produced by European standards bodies or, failing this, their national equivalents.
Where the contracting authorities make use of the possibility of referring to the specifications referred to in point (a) of paragraph 3, they may not reject a tender on the grounds that it does not comply with those specifications if the tenderer or candidate proves, to the satisfaction of the contracting authority, by any appropriate means, that the tender meets in equivalent manner the requirements set. 5.
Where the contracting authorities make use of the possibility provided for in point (b) of paragraph 3, of prescribing specifications in terms of performance or of functional requirements, they may not reject a tender which complies with a national standard transposing a European standard, a European technical approval or common technical specifications, an international standard or technical reference material produced by a European standards body, if those specifications relate to the necessary performance or functional requirements. 6.
Article 132 Price revision (Article 92 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
That period may be extended to three years in the event of a repeat offence within five years of the first infringement.
Tenderers or candidates who have been guilty of making false declarations shall also receive financial penalties representing 2 % to 10 % of the total value of the contract being awarded.
That rate may be increased to 4 % to 20 % in the event of a repeat offence within five years of the first infringement. 2.
In the cases referred to in points (a), (c) and (d) of Article 93(1) of the Financial Regulation, the candidates or tenderers shall be excluded from all contracts and grants for a maximum of two years from the time when the infringement is established, as confirmed after an adversarial procedure with the contractor.
In the cases referred to in points (b) and (e) of Article 93(1) of the Financial Regulation, the candidates or tenderers shall be excluded from all contracts and grants for a minimum of one year and a maximum of four years from the date of notification of the judgment.
Those periods may be extended to five years in the event of a repeat offence within five years of the first infringement or the first judgment. 3.
The cases referred to in point (e) of Article 93(1) of the Financial Regulation shall be the following: (a) cases of fraud as referred to in Article 1 of the Convention on the protection of the European Communities' financial interests drawn up by the Council Act of 26 July 1995(14); (b) cases of corruption as referred to in Article 3 of the Convention on the fight against corruption involving officials of the European Communities or officials of Member States of the European Union, drawn up by the Council Act of 26 May 1997(15); (c) cases of participation in a criminal organisation, as defined in Article 2(1) of Joint Action 98/733/JHA of the Council(16); (d) cases of money laundering as defined in Article 1 of Council Directive 91/308/EEC(17).
Article 134 Evidence (Article 96 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
Article 135 Selection criteria (Article 97(1) of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The following selection criteria shall apply in every procurement procedure: (a) the eligibility of the tenderer or candidate to take part in the procedure, checks having been carried out on the possible grounds for exclusion referred to in Articles 93 and 94 of the Financial Regulation; (b) criteria for assessing his financial, economic, technical and professional capacity.
Article 136 Economic and financial capacity (Article 97(1) of the Financial Regulation) 1.
Proof of economic and financial capacity may be furnished by one or more of the following documents: (a) appropriate statements from banks or evidence of professional risk indemnity insurance; (b) the presentation of balance sheets or extracts from balance sheets for at least the last two years for which accounts have been closed, where publication of the balance sheet is required under the company law of the country in which the economic operator is established; (c) a statement of overall turnover and turnover concerning the works, supplies or services covered by the contract during a period which may be no more than the last three financial years. 2.
Article 137 Technical and professional capacity (Article 97(1) of the Financial Regulation) 1.
Technical and professional capacity of economic operators shall be evaluated and verified in accordance with paragraphs 2 and 3.
Article 138 Award arrangements and criteria (Article 97(2) of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The contracting authority shall specify, in the contract notice or in the specifications, the weighting it will apply to each of the criteria for determining best value for money.
The weighting applied to price in relation to the other criteria must not result in the neutralisation of price in the choice of contractor.
Article 139 Abnormally low tenders (Article 97(2) of the Financial Regulation) 1.
Article 140 Time limits for receipt of tenders and requests to participate (Article 98(1) of the Financial Regulation) 1.
In open procedures, the time limit for receipt of tenders shall be no less than fifty-two days from the date on which the contract notice is dispatched. 3.
In restricted and negotiated procedures where a contract notice is published, the time limit for receipt of requests to participate shall be no less than thirty-seven days from the date on which the contract notice is dispatched.
In restricted procedures for contracts above the thresholds set in Article 158, the time limit for receipt of tenders shall be no less than forty days from the date on which the invitation to tender is dispatched.
In the restricted procedures referred to in Article 128, the time-limit for receipt of tenders shall be no less than twenty-one days from the date on which the invitation to tender is dispatched. 4.
Where the contracting authorities, in accordance with Article 118, have sent for publication a pre-information notice containing all the information required in the contract notice no less than fifty-two days and no more than twelve months before the date on which the contract notice is dispatched, the time-limit for the receipt of tenders may generally be reduced to thirty-six days but shall in no circumstances be less than twenty-two days from the date of dispatch of the contract notice, in the case of open procedures, or may be reduced to twenty-six days from the date of dispatch of the invitation to submit a tender, in the case of restricted procedures.
Article 141 Time allowed for access to invitation to tender documents (Article 98(1) of the Financial Regulation) 1.
Provided that the request was made in good time before the deadline for submission of tenders, the specifications and additional documents shall be sent, within six calendar days of the receipt of the request, to all economic operators who have requested the specifications or expressed interest in submitting a tender. 2.
Provided it has been requested in good time, additional information relating to the specifications shall be supplied simultaneously to all economic operators who have requested the specifications or expressed interest in submitting a tender no later than six days before the deadline for the receipt of tenders or, in the case of requests for information received less than eight calendar days before the deadline for receipt of tenders, as soon as possible after receipt of the request. 3.
That extension shall be advertised in appropriate manner, in accordance with the arrangements set out in Articles 118 to 121. 4.
Article 142 Time limits in urgent cases (Article 98(1) of the Financial Regulation) 1.
Article 143 Methods of communication (Article 98(1) of the Financial Regulation) 1.
Requests to participate shall be submitted by letter, fax or electronic mail; requests submitted by fax or electronic mail shall be confirmed by letter before expiry of the time-limits set in Articles 140 and 251. 2.
If self-adhesive envelopes are used, they must be sealed with adhesive tape and the sender must sign across that tape.%quot% Article 144 Tender guarantees (Article 98(2) of the Financial Regulation) The contracting authority may require a tender guarantee, lodged in accordance with Article 150, representing 1 % to 2 % of the total value of the contract.
Article 145 Opening of tenders and requests to participate (Article 98(3) of the Financial Regulation) 1.
Where the value of a contract exceeds the threshold laid down in Article 129(2), the authorising officer responsible shall appoint a committee to open the tenders.
The committee shall be made up of at least three persons representing at least two organisational entities of the institution concerned with no hierarchical link between them.
To avoid any conflict of interests, those persons shall be subject to the obligations laid down in Article 52 of the Financial Regulation.
Article 146 Committee for the evaluation of tenders and requests to participate (Article 98(4) of the Financial Regulation) 1.
That committee shall be appointed by the authorising officer responsible to give an advisory opinion for contracts with a value above the threshold referred to in Article 129(2). 2.
The evaluation committee shall be made up of at least three persons representing at least two organisational entities of the institution concerned with no hierarchical link between them.
To avoid any conflict of interests, those persons shall be subject to the obligations laid down in Article 52 of the Financial Regulation.
The evaluation committee may be composed of the same members as the committee opening the tenders. 3.
Article 147 Results of the evaluation (Articles 99 and 100 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
That written record shall contain at least the following: (a) the name and address of the contracting authority, and the subject and value of the contract or of the framework contract; (b) the names of the candidates or tenderers rejected and the reasons for their rejection; (c) the names of the candidates or tenderers to be examined and the reasons for their selection; (d) the reasons for the rejection of tenders found to be abnormally low; (e) the names of the candidates or contractor proposed and the reasons for that choice and, if known, the proportion of the contract or the framework contract which the contractor intends to subcontract to third parties. 3.
The contracting authority shall then take its decision giving at least the following: (a) the name and address of the contracting authority, and the subject and value of the contract or of the framework contract; (b) the names of the candidates or tenderers rejected and the reasons for their rejection; (c) the names of the candidates or tenderers to be examined and the reasons for their selection; (d) the reasons for the rejection of tenders found to be abnormally low; (e) the names of the candidates or contractor selected and the reasons for that choice by reference to the selection and award criteria announced in advance and, if known, the proportion of the contract or the framework contract which the contractor intends to subcontract to third parties; (f) in the case of negotiated procedures, the circumstances referred to in Articles 126, 127, 242, 244, 246 and 247 which justify their use; (g) where appropriate, the reasons why the contracting authority has decided not to award a contract.
Article 148 Contacts between contracting authorities and tenderers (Article 99 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
Before the closing date for the submission of tenders, in respect of the additional documents and information referred to in Article 141, the contracting authority may: (a) at the instance of tenderers, communicate additional information solely for the purpose of clarifying the nature of the contract, such information to be communicated on the same date to all tenderers who have asked for the specifications; (b) at its own instance, if it discovers an error, a lack of precision, an omission or any other type of clerical defect in the text of the contract notice, invitation to tender or specifications, inform the persons concerned on the same date and in a manner identical with that applicable in respect of the original invitation to tender. 3.
Article 149 Information for candidates and tenderers (Articles 100(2) and 101 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The contracting authority shall, within not more than fifteen calendar days from the date on which a written request is received, communicate the information provided for in Article 100(2) of the Financial Regulation.
Section 4 Guarantees and control Article 150 Advance guarantee (Article 102 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The guarantee shall be denominated in euro.
Article 151 Performance guarantee (Article 102 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
Subject to Article 250, a performance guarantee may be demanded by the authorising officer in accordance with the usual commercial terms for supply and service contracts and in accordance with the special specifications for works contracts.
This guarantee shall be mandatory above EUR 345000 for works contracts. 2.
A guarantee corresponding to 10 % of the total value of the contract may be constituted by deductions from payments as and when they are made.
It may be replaced by an amount withheld from the final payment in order to constitute a guarantee until final acceptance of the services, supplies or works. 3.
Article 152 Guarantee for pre-financing (Article 102 of the Financial Regulation) A guarantee shall be required in return for the payment of pre-financing exceeding EUR 150000.
Article 153 Suspension in the event of errors or irregularities (Article 103 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
Contracts shall be suspended under Article 103 of the Financial Regulation in order to verify whether presumed substantial errors or irregularities or fraud have actually occurred.
Article 155 Separate contracts and contracts with lots (Article 105 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
Where the overall value of lots is equal or to or exceeds the thresholds laid down in Article 158 the provisions of Articles 90(1) and 91(1) and (2) of the Financial Regulation shall apply to each of the lots, save those with an estimated value of less than EUR 80000 in the case of service contracts, or less than EUR 1000000 in the case of works contracts, provided that the aggregate amount of those lots does not exceed 20 % of the aggregate value of all the lots making up the contract in question. 3.
Article 156 Arrangements for estimating the value of certain contracts (Article 105 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
In the case of service or supply contracts which are awarded regularly or are to be renewed within a given time, the contract value shall be established on the basis of: (a) either the actual aggregate cost of similar contracts for the same categories of services or products awarded over the previous financial year or twelve months, adjusted, where possible, for anticipated changes in quantity or value over the twelve months following the initial contract; (b) or the estimated aggregate cost of successive contracts during the twelve months following the first service performed or first delivery or during the term of the contract, where this is greater than twelve months. 5.
Article 157 Thresholds for pre-information notices (Article 105 of the Financial Regulation) The thresholds provided for in Article 118 for publication of a pre-information notice shall be: (a) EUR 750000 for the supply and service contracts listed in Annex IA to Directive 92/50/EEC; (b) EUR 6242028 for works contracts.
Article 158 Thresholds for application of the procedures under the public procurement directives (Article 105 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The thresholds referred to in Article 105 of the Financial Regulation shall be: (a) EUR 162293 for the supply and service contracts listed in Annex IA to Directive 92/50/EEC, with the exception of the research and development contracts listed in category 8 of that Annex; (b) EUR 200000 for the service contracts listed in Annex IB to Directive 92/50/EEC and for the research and development service contracts listed in category 8 of Annex IA to that Regulation; (c) EUR 6242028 for works contracts. 2.
The time limits referred to in Article 105 of the Financial Regulation shall be those specified in Articles 140, 141 and 142.
Article 159 Evidence of access to contracts (Articles 106 and 107 of the Financial Regulation) The specifications shall require tenderers to indicate in which State they have their headquarters or domicile and to present the supporting evidence normally acceptable under their own law.
TITLE VI GRANTS CHAPTER 1 Scope Article 160 Scope (Article 108 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The procedure for the award of grants and the conclusion of agreements by the Commission with the bodies referred to in Article 54 of the Financial Regulation, in respect of the co-financing of their administrative expenditure and for the purposes of making available the operating appropriations which they are delegated to manage, and with the beneficiaries of financing agreements as referred to in Article 166 of that Regulation are not subject to the provisions of this Title.
On the other hand, the grants paid by these beneficiaries pursuant to these agreements are governed by this Title. 2.
Article 161 Actions which may receive grants (Article 108 of the Financial Regulation) An action which may receive a grant within the meaning of Article 108 of the Financial Regulation must be clearly identified.
Article 162 Bodies pursuing an aim of general European interest (Article 108 of the Financial Regulation) A body pursuing an aim of general European interest is: (a) a European body involved in education, training, information or research and study in European policies or a European standards body; or (b) a European network representing non-profit bodies active in the Member States or in the candidate countries and promoting principles and policies consistent with the objectives of the Treaties.
Article 163 Partnerships (Article 108 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
Specific grant agreements may form part of framework partnership agreements. 2.
The framework agreement shall specify the common objectives, the nature of actions planned on a one-off basis or as part of an approved annual work programme, the procedure for awarding specific grants, in compliance with the principles and procedural rules in this Title, and the general rights and obligations of each party under the specific agreements.
The duration of such agreements may not exceed four years, save in exceptional cases, justified in particular by the subject of the framework agreement.
Partnership framework agreements shall be treated as grants for the purposes of the award procedure; they shall be subject to the ex ante advertising procedures referred to in Article 167. 4.
They shall be subject to the ex post publication procedures laid down in Article 169. 5.
Article 164 Content of grant agreements (Article 108 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The agreement may lay down the arrangements and time-limits for suspension in accordance with Article 183; (g) the estimated overall budget and details of the eligible costs of the action or approved work programme, save in the case of the flat-rate amounts referred to in Article 181(1); (h) where implementation of the action involves procurement, the principles referred to in Article 184 or the procurement rules which the beneficiary must comply with; (i) the responsibilities of the beneficiary, in particular in terms of sound financial management and submission of activity and financial reports; (j) the arrangements and time-limits for approving those reports and for payment by the Commission. 2.
In the cases referred to in Article 163, the framework agreement shall specify the information referred to in points (a),( b), (c)(i), (d)(ii), (f), (h), (i) and (j) of paragraph 1 of this Article.
The specific agreement shall contain the information referred to in points (a), (b) (c), (d), (e), and (g) of paragraph 1 and, where necessary, point (i) thereof. 3.
Grant agreements may be amended only by written additional agreements.
CHAPTER 2 Award principles Article 165 No-profit rule (Article 109(2) of the Financial Regulation) 1.
Article 166 Annual programming (Article 110(1) of the Financial Regulation) 1.
It shall be published on the grants Internet site of the Commission by no later than 31 January each financial year.
The work programme shall specify the basic act, the objectives, the schedule of calls for proposals with the indicative amount and the results expected. 2.
Article 167 Content of calls for proposals (Article 110(1) of the Financial Regulation) 1.
Calls for proposals shall specify: (a) the objectives pursued; (b) the eligibility, selection and award criteria as referred to in Articles 114 and 115 of the Financial Regulation, and the relevant supporting documents; (c) the arrangements for Community financing; (d) the arrangements and final date for the submission of proposals and the possible start-up date for the actions and the planned date for closing the award procedure. 2.
Calls for proposals shall be published on the Internet site of the European institutions and by any other appropriate medium, including the Official Journal of the European Communities, in order to provide maximum publicity among potential beneficiaries.
Article 169 Ex post publication (Article 110(2) of the Financial Regulation) 1.
All grants awarded in the course of a financial year, except scholarships paid to natural persons, shall be published on the Internet site of the Community institutions during the first half of the year following the closure of the budget year in respect of which they were awarded.
The information may also be published by any other appropriate medium, including the Official Journal of the European Communities. 2.
The following shall be published with the agreement of the beneficiary in accordance with point (f) of Article 164(1): (a) the name and address of the beneficiaries; (b) the subject of the grant; (c) the amount awarded and, save in the case of the flat-rate amounts referred to in Article 181(1), the rate of funding of the costs of the action or approved work programme.
Article 170 Joint financing (Article 111 of the Financial Regulation) An action may be financed jointly from separate budget lines by a number of authorising officers.
Article 171 Retroactive effect for management of humanitarian aid and crisis situations (Article 112 of the Financial Regulation) In order to ensure that humanitarian aid operations and operations in crisis situations within the meaning of Article 168(2) are conducted efficiently, expenditure incurred by a beneficiary before the date of submission of the application shall be eligible for Community financing solely in the following cases: (a) where the expenditure relates to the constitution of stocks by the applicant for use in connection with the action for which the grant is awarded; (b) by way of exception and for properly substantiated reasons, where the financing decision and the grant agreement explicitly provide for this by setting an eligibility date earlier than the date for submission of applications.
Article 172 External co-financing (Article 113 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The beneficiary shall supply evidence of the co-financing provided, either by way of own resources, or in the form of financial transfers from third parties, or in kind, save in the case of the flat-rate amounts referred to in Article 181(1). 2.
The authorising officer may, in duly substantiated exceptional cases, accept co-financing in kind.
CHAPTER 3 Award procedure Article 173 Financing applications (Article 114 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The budget for the action or the operating budget attached to the application must have revenue and expenditure in balance and show clearly the costs which are eligible for financing from the Community budget, save in the case of the flat-rate amounts referred to in Article 181(1). 4.
The provisions of the first subparagraph shall apply only to the first application made by a beneficiary to an authorising officer in any one budget year.
The authorising officer responsible may, depending on his analysis of management risks, waive that obligation for public bodies, secondary and higher education establishments, the international organisations referred to in Article 43, and beneficiaries who have accepted joint and several liability in the case of agreements with a number of beneficiaries. 5.
Article 174 Proof of applicants' eligibility (Article 114 of the Financial Regulation) Applicants shall declare on their honour that they are not in one of the situations listed in Article 93(1) of the Financial Regulation.
The authorising officer responsible may, depending on the analysis of management risks, request the evidence referred to in Article 134.
Applicants shall be bound to supply such proof, unless there is a material impossibility recognised by the authorising officer responsible.
Article 175 Financial and administrative penalties (Article 114 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
Applicants and beneficiaries who are in one of the situations referred to in Articles 93 to 96 of the Financial Regulation may also be excluded from Community grants and contracts in accordance with the conditions laid down in Article 133.
Article 176 Selection criteria (Article 115(1) of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The applicant must have stable and sufficient sources of funding to maintain his activity throughout the period during which the action is being carried out or the year for which the grant is awarded and to participate in its funding.
The applicant must have the professional competencies and qualifications required to complete the proposed action or work programme unless specifically provided otherwise in the basic act. 3.
Financial and operational capacity shall be verified in particular on the basis of an analysis of the supporting documents referred to in Article 173. 4.
Article 177 Award criteria (Article 115(2) of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The award criteria shall be defined in such a way that it will be possible subsequently to carry out an evaluation.
Article 178 Evaluation of applications and award (Article 116 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The authorising officer responsible shall appoint a committee to evaluate the proposals, save in the case of a Commission decision on a specific sectoral programme.
To avoid any conflict of interests, those persons shall be subject to the obligations laid down in Article 52 of the Financial Regulation.
In the representations and local units referred to in Article 254 and the delegated bodies referred to in Article 160(1), if there are no separate entities, the requirement of organisational entities with no hierarchical link between them shall not apply.
Outside experts may assist the committee by decision of the authorising officer responsible. 2.
The record shall be kept for future reference. 4.
Article 179 Information for applicants (Article 116 of the Financial Regulation) Applicants shall be informed within fifteen calendar days after the award decision has been sent to the beneficiaries.
CHAPTER 4 Payment and control Article 180 Supporting documents for requests for payments (Article 117 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
For each grant, where pre-financing is split, each new payment shall be subject to consumption of at least 70 % of the total amount of any earlier pre-financing.
Depending on his analysis of management risks, the authorising officer responsible may waive the audit obligation in the case of: (a) public bodies and the international organisations referred to in Article 43; (b) the beneficiaries of grants in connection with humanitarian aid and the management of crisis situations, save in respect of payments of balances.
Article 181 Flat-rate financing (Article 117 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
In addition to cases of scholarships and prizes, the basic act may authorise flat-rate financing for contributions of less then EUR 5000 or the use of scales of unit costs.
The grant agreement may authorise flat-rate cover: (a) of the beneficiary's overheads up to a maximum of 7 % of total eligible costs for the action, save where the beneficiary is in receipt of an operating grant financed from the Community budget; (b) of certain mission expenses on the basis of a per diem scale approved annually by the Commission.
The ceiling provided for in point (a) of the first subparagraph may be exceeded by reasoned decision of the Commission.
Article 182 Advance guarantee (Article 118 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The authorising officer responsible may require the beneficiary to lodge a guarantee in advance in order to limit the financial risks connected with the payment of pre-financing. 2.
Where pre-financing represents over 80 % of the total amount of the grant, payment may not be made until after the beneficiary has lodged a guarantee subject to the assessment and acceptance of the authorising officer responsible.
For NGOs operating in the field of external action, that guarantee shall be demanded in respect of pre-financing exceeding EUR 1000000 or representing over 90 % of the total amount of the grant.
The guarantee shall be valid for a period sufficiently long to allow it to be activated. 3.
The guarantee shall be provided by an approved bank or financial institution established in one of the Member States.
The guarantee may be replaced by a joint and several guarantee by a third party or by the joint guarantee of the beneficiaries of an action who are parties to the same grant agreement.
The guarantee shall be denominated in euro.
The guarantee shall be released as the pre-financing is gradually cleared against interim payments or payments of balances to the beneficiary in accordance with the conditions laid down in the grant agreement. 5.
The authorising officer responsible may waive the obligation laid down in paragraph 2 for public-sector bodies and the international organisations referred to in Article 43.
The authorising officer responsible may also exempt from that obligation beneficiaries who have concluded a framework partnership agreement under Article 163.
Article 183 Suspension and reduction of grants (Article 119 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The authorising officer responsible shall suspend payments and, depending on the stage reached in the procedure, either reduce the grant or demand reimbursement pro rata by the beneficiary or beneficiaries: (a) where the agreed action or work programme is not carried out at all, or is not carried out properly, in full or on time; (b) where amounts exceeding the financing ceilings set in the agreement have been paid, in particular if the agreed action or work programme has been carried out at a lower cost than initially forecast; (c) where the budget for the action or the operating budget reveals a surplus ex post. 2.
CHAPTER 5 Implementation Article 184 Implementation contracts (Article 120 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
Where implementation of the assisted actions requires the award of procurement contracts, beneficiaries of grants shall award the contract to the tender offering best value for money, that is to say, to the tender offering the best price-quality ratio, in compliance with the principles of transparency and equal treatment for potential contractors, care being taken to avoid any conflict of interests. 2.
TITLE VII PRESENTATION OF THE ACCOUNTS AND ACCOUNTING CHAPTER 1 Presentation of the accounts Article 185 Report on budgetary and financial management during the year (Article 122 of the Financial Regulation) The report on budgetary and financial management during the year shall give an accurate description of: (a) the achievement of the objectives for the year, in accordance with the principle of sound financial management; (b) the financial situation and the events which have had a significant influence on activities during the year.
Article 186 Exception to the accounting principles (Article 124 of the Financial Regulation) Where, in a specific case, the accounting officers consider that an exception should be made to the content of one of the accounting principles defined in Articles 187 to 1941, that exception shall be duly substantiated and reported in the annex to the financial statements referred to in Article 203.
Article 187 Going-concern principle (Article 124 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The going-concern principle means that for the purposes of preparing the financial statements, the institutions and the bodies referred to in Article 185 of the Financial Regulation shall be deemed to be established for an indefinite duration. 2.
Where there are objective indications that an institution or a body referred to in Article 185 of the Financial Regulation is to cease its activities, the accounting officer shall present that information in the annex, indicating the reasons.
Article 189 Principle of consistent accounting methods (Article 124 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The Commission's accounting officer may not depart from the principle of consistent accounting methods other than in exceptional circumstances, in particular: (a) in the event of a significant change in the nature of the entity's operations; (b) where the change made is for the sake of a more appropriate presentation of the accounting operations.
Article 190 Principle of comparability of information (Article 124 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The principle of comparability of information means that for each item the financial statements shall also show the amount of the corresponding item the previous year. 2.
Article 191 Materiality principle (Article 124 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
Article 192 No-netting principle (Article 124 of the Financial Regulation) The no-netting principle means that receivables and debts may not be offset against each other, nor may charges and income, save where charges and income derive from the same transaction, from similar transactions or from hedging operations and provided that they are not individually material.
Article 193 Principle of reality over appearance (Article 124 of the Financial Regulation) The principle of reality over appearance means that accounting events recorded in the financial statements shall be presented by reference to their economic nature.
Article 194 Accrual-based accounting principle (Article 125 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The accounting methods provided for in Article 133 of the Financial Regulation shall specify the obligating event for the entry of each transaction in the accounts.
Article 195 Valuation of assets and liabilities (Article 125 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The accounting rules and methods referred to in Article 133 of the Financial Regulation may lay down that all items or only some of them are to be valued at a value other than their purchase price.
Article 196 Provisions (Article 125 of the Financial Regulation) A provision shall be made only if the following conditions are satisfied: (a) a current obligation exists as a result of a past event; (b) resources representing economic benefits will probably have to be used to extinguish the obligation; (c) the amount of the obligation can be reliably estimated.
Article 197 Structure of the balance sheet (Article 126 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The balance sheet shall be made up of the various items classified by titles and sub-titles. 2.
Article 200 Presentation of the economic outturn account (Article 126 of the Financial Regulation) For the presentation of the economic outturn account, the accounting officer shall apply the following minimum layout: Operating income - Operating charges = Operating result +/- Financial result = Result from ordinary activities +/- Exceptional result = Result for the year Article 201 Cash flow table (Article 126 of the Financial Regulation) The cash flow table shall show treasury movements.
Article 202 Cash flow classification (Article 126 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The operating cash flow shall show treasury movements resulting from ordinary activities. 3.
The investment cash flow shall show treasury movements resulting from the acquisition or sale of fixed assets. 4.
The financial cash flow shall show the treasury movements resulting from borrowing and lending and any other financial source.
Article 203 Annex to the financial statements (Article 126 of the Financial Regulation) The annex referred to in Article 126 of the Financial Regulation shall form an integral part of the financial statements.
Article 204 Explanatory notes (Article 126 of the Financial Regulation) The explanatory notes shall be presented with cross references to the items in the financial statements to which they relate and in the same order of presentation.
Article 205 Budgetary outturn account (Article 127 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
As regards information on revenue, a statement shall also be attached showing, for each Member State, the breakdown of amounts of own resources still to be recovered at the end of the financial year and covered by a recovery order.
Article 206 Annex to the budgetary outturn account (Article 127 of the Financial Regulation) The annex to the budgetary outturn account referred to in Article 127 of the Financial Regulation shall contain at least: (a) information on the budget principles, types of appropriation and the structure of the budget; (b) information on commitments outstanding; (c) the information required for a proper understanding of the budget outturn.
CHAPTER 2 (Chapter 3 of the Financial Regulation) Accounting Section 1 Organisation of the accounts Article 207 Organisation of the accounts (Article 132 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The accounting officer of each institution and body referred to in Article 185 of the Financial Regulation shall draw up and keep updated documents describing the organisation of the accounts and accounting procedures of his institution. 2.
Article 208 Computerised systems (Article 132 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
Section 2 Accounting ledgers Article 209 Accounting ledgers (Article 135 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
Each institution and each body referred to in Article 185 of the Financial Regulation shall keep a journal, a general ledger and an inventory. 2.
The accounting ledgers shall consist of electronic documents which are identified by the accounting officer and offer full guarantees for use as evidence. 3.
Article 210 Trial balance (Article 135 of the Financial Regulation) Each institution and body referred to in Article 185 of the Financial Regulation shall establish a trial balance covering all the accounts of the general accounts, including the accounts cleared during the year, with, in each case: (a) account number; (b) description; (c) total debits; (d) total credits; (e) balance.
Article 211 Inventory (Article 135 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The data in the inventory shall be kept and organised in such a way as to justify the content of each of the accounts included in the trial balance. 3.
As regards the inventory of fixed assets, the provisions of Articles 220 to 227 shall apply.
Section 3 Chart of accounts Article 212 Chart of accounts (Article 135 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The chart of accounts shall be adopted by the Commission's accounting officer. 2.
Section 4 Registration Article 213 Entries in the accounts (Article 135 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
Transactions in foreign currencies in accounts which can be revalued shall be revalued at least each time the accounts are closed.
The rate to be used for conversion between the euro and another currency to draw up the balance sheet at 31 December of year N shall be that of the last working day of year N-1.
Article 214 Accounting records (Article 135 of the Financial Regulation) All accounting records shall specify the origin, content and booking reference of each data item and the references of the relevant supporting documents.
Article 215 Supporting documents (Article 135 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
Operations of the same type, carried out in the same place and on the same day may be summarised in a single supporting document.
Article 216 Recording in the journal (Article 135 of the Financial Regulation) Accounting operations shall be recorded in the journal by one of the following methods, which are not mutually exclusive: (a) day by day, operation by operation; (b) in the form of a monthly summary of the total amounts involved in operations, provided that all documents allowing verification of individual operations day by day are kept.
Article 217 Validation of entries (Article 135 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
Entries in the journal and in an inventory ledger shall be made final by means of a validation procedure prohibiting any change to or deletion of the entry. 2.
Section 5 Reconciliation and verification Article 218 Reconciliation of accounts (Article 135 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The balance of accounts in the trial balance shall be reconciled periodically, and at least at the annual closure, with the data from the management systems used by authorising officers for the management of assets and liabilities and for the daily input into the accounting system. 2.
Periodically, and at least whenever the accounts are closed, the accounting officer shall check that the data in the inventory ledger referred to in Article 209 correspond to the actual situation, in particular as regards: (a) cash at bank, by reconciliation of the statements of account from financial institutions; (b) cash in cash offices, by reconciliation with the data in the cash book.
The fixed assets accounts shall be reviewed in accordance with Article 224. 3.
Section 6 Budget accounts Article 219 Content and keeping of budget accounts (Article 137 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The budget accounts may be organised in such a way as to develop a cost accounting system. 4.
Article 221 Safeguarding property (Article 138 of the Financial Regulation) Each of the institutions shall adopt provisions on safeguarding the property included in their respective balance sheets and decide which administrative departments are responsible for the inventory system.
Article 222 Entry of items in the inventory (Article 138 of the Financial Regulation) All items acquired whose purchase price or production cost is EUR 420 or more, with a period of use greater than one year, and which are not consumables shall be entered in the inventory and recorded in the fixed assets accounts.
Article 223 Content of the inventory for each item (Article 138 of the Financial Regulation) The inventory shall contain an appropriate description of each item and specify its location, the date of acquisition and its unit cost.
Article 224 Inventory checks (Article 138 of the Financial Regulation) Inventory checks carried out by the institutions shall be performed in such a way as to ensure that each item physically exists and matches the relevant entry in the inventory.
Article 225 Resale of property (Article 138 of the Financial Regulation) Members, officials or other servants and any other staff of the institutions and bodies referred to in Article 185 of the Financial Regulation may not acquire items that are resold by these institutions and bodies, save where those items are resold by public tender procedure.
Article 226 Procedure for sale of fixed assets (Article 138 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
Sales of fixed assets shall be advertised locally in appropriate fashion, if the unit purchase value is EUR 8100 or more.
Those sales shall be the subject of a notice of sale published in the Official Journal of the European Communities, if the unit purchase value is EUR 391100 or more.
Article 227 Procedure for disposing of fixed assets (Article 138 of the Financial Regulation) A statement or record shall be drawn up by the authorising officer whenever any property in the inventory is sold, given away free of charge, scrapped, hired out or missing on account of loss, theft or any other reason.
PART TWO SPECIAL PROVISIONS TITLE I (TITLE II OF THE FINANCIAL REGULATION) STRUCTURAL FUNDS Article 228 Repayment of payments on account (Article 157 of the Financial Regulation) In accordance with the regulations on the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund, the repayment in full or in part of payments on account in respect of a given operation shall not have the effect of reducing the contribution from the Fund to the operation concerned.
Amounts repaid shall constitute assigned revenue in accordance with point (f) of Article 18(1) of the Financial Regulation.
TITLE II (TITLE III OF THE FINANCIAL REGULATION) RESEARCH Article 229 Types of operations (Article 160 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The research and technological development appropriations shall be used to carry out direct action, indirect action under the framework programme for research referred to in Article 166 of the EC Treaty, and the action referred to in Article 165 of that Treaty by participation in programmes and competitive activities conducted by the Joint Research Centre (JRC). 2.
The JRC may participate in those activities on the same basis as third parties. 4.
To ensure that national research policies and Community research policy are mutually consistent, the Commission may take initiatives in accordance with Article 165 of the EC Treaty and charge exclusively administrative expenditure to the budget. 5.
In addition to the specific programmes referred to in Article 166(3) of the EC Treaty, the Community may adopt: (a) supplementary programmes in which only certain Member States take part, in accordance with Article 168 of the EC Treaty; (b) programmes undertaken by several Member States, including participation in the structures created for the execution of those programmes, in accordance with Article 169 of the EC Treaty; (c) cooperation with third countries or international organisations in accordance with Article 170 of the EC Treaty; (d) joint undertakings, in accordance with Article 171 of the EC Treaty. 6.
Article 230 Rules applicable to the JRC (Article 161 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The estimates of amounts receivable referred to in Article 161(2) of the Financial Regulation shall be sent to the accounting officer for registration. 2.
TITLE III (TITLE IV OF THE FINANCIAL REGULATION) EXTERNAL ACTIONS CHAPTER I GENERAL PROVISIONS Article 231 Actions which may be financed (Article 162 of the Financial Regulation) Appropriations for the actions referred to in Title IV, Chapter 1 of Part Two of the Financial Regulation may, in particular, finance procurement contracts, grants, including interest rate subsidies, special loans, loan guarantees and financial assistance, budgetary support and other specific forms of budgetary aid.
CHAPTER 2 Implementation of actions Article 232 Financing agreement in centralised management (Article 166 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
Article 233 Special loans (Article 166 of the Financial Regulation) A loan contract shall be drawn up between the Commission, acting for the Community, and the borrower in respect of any investment project financed by a special loan.
Article 234 Bank accounts (Article 166 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
Article 236 Definitions (Article 167 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
Article 237 Special provisions relating to thresholds and the arrangements for awarding external contracts (Article 167(1)(a) and (b) of the Financial Regulation) 1.
Articles 118 to 121, with the exception of the definitions, Article 122 (3) and (4), Articles 123, 126 to 129, 131 (3) to (6), Article 139 (2), Articles 140 to 146, Article 148 and Articles 151 and 152 shall not apply to procurement contracts concluded or on behalf of the contracting authorities referred to in points (a) and (b) of Article 167(1) of the Financial Regulation.
Implementation of the procurement provisions under this Chapter shall be decided by the Commission. 2.
Contracts awarded for food aid shall be covered by the specific arrangements of Commission Regulation (EC) No 2519/97(21). 4.
This Chapter shall not apply to the contracting authorities referred to in point (b) of Article 167(1) of the Financial Regulation where, following the checks referred to in Article 35, the Commission has authorised them to use their own procurement procedures under decentralised management.
Article 238 Procurement by the contracting authorities referred to in Article 167(1)( c) of the Financial Regulation (Article 167(1)( c) of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to procurement by the contracting authorities referred to in point (c) of Article 167(1) of the Financial Regulation. 2.
The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to actions under Regulation (EC) No 1257/96. 3.
The specific procurement procedures to be used in the cases referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall be decided by the Commission in accordance with the principles referred to in Article 184. 4.
Article 240 Advertising (Article 167 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The pre-information notice for international calls for tender shall be sent to the Office for Official Publications of the European Communities as early as possible, and in any event before 31 March each year for supply and service contracts and as quickly as possible after the decision authorising the programme for works contracts. 2.
Where the contract notice is also published locally, it must be identical to the one published in the Official Journal of the European Communities and on the Internet and it must be published simultaneously.
Article 241 Thresholds and procedures for awarding service contracts (Article 167 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The thresholds and procedures referred to in Article 167 of the Financial Regulation shall be as follows for service contracts: (a) for contracts with a value of EUR 200000 or more: an international restricted invitation to tender within the meaning of point (b) of Article 122(2) and point (a) of Article 240(2); (b) for contracts with a value of less than EUR 200000: competitive negotiated procedure within the meaning of paragraph 3, provided that the use of an existing framework contract is impossible or has been unsuccessful.
Contracts with a value of less than EUR 5000 may be awarded on the basis of a single tender. 2.
In the international restricted procedure referred to in point (a) of paragraph 1, the contract notice shall state the number of candidates who will be invited to submit tenders.
The number of candidates allowed to submit tenders must be sufficient to ensure genuine competition.
Under the negotiated procedure referred to in point (b) of paragraph 1, the contracting authority shall draw up a list of at least three suppliers of its choice.
The procedure involves limited competitive tendering, without publication of a notice and shall be known as a competitive negotiated procedure not covered by Article 124.
The members of the selection board must sign a declaration of impartiality.
The date and time of the interview must be communicated to the tenderers at least ten calendar days in advance.
The contract award criteria shall serve to identify the tender offering best value for money.
Article 242 Use of the negotiated procedure for service contracts (Article 167 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
For the purposes of point (a) of the first subparagraph, operations carried out in crisis situations as referred to in Article 168(2) shall be considered to satisfy the test of extreme urgency.
The authorising officer by delegation, where appropriate in concertation with the other authorising officers by delegation concerned, shall establish that a situation of extreme urgency exists and shall review his decision regularly with regard to the principle of sound financial management. 2.
Article 243 Thresholds and procedures for awarding supply contracts (Article 167 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The thresholds and procedures referred to in Article 167 of the Financial Regulation shall be as follows for supply contracts: (a) for contracts with a value of EUR 150000 or more: an international open invitation to tender within the meaning of point (a) of Article 122(2) and point (a) of Article 240(2); (b) for contracts with a value of EUR 30000 or more but less then EUR 150000: a local open invitation to tender within the meaning of point (a) of Article 122(2) and point (b) of Article 240(2); (c) for contracts with a value of less than EUR 30000: competitive negotiated procedure within the meaning of paragraph 2.
Contracts with a value of less than EUR 5000 may be awarded on the basis of a single tender. 2.
The procedure involves limited competitive tendering, without publication of a notice, and shall be known as a competitive negotiated procedure not covered by Article 124.
The members of the selection board must sign a declaration of impartiality.
At the place and time set in the tender documents, the tenders shall be opened in public by the evaluation committee.
At the public tender-opening session, the names of the tenderers, the prices quoted, the provision of the necessary tender guarantee and any other formality which the contracting authority considers appropriate must be announced. 4.
Article 244 Use of the negotiated procedure for supply contracts (Article 167 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
Article 245 Thresholds and procedures for awarding works contracts (Article 167 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The procedure shall involve limited competitive tendering, without publication of a notice, and shall be known as a competitive negotiated procedure not covered by Article 124.
The members of the selection board must sign a declaration of impartiality.
At the place and time set in the tender documents, the tenders shall be opened in public by the evaluation committee.
At the public tender-opening session, the names of the tenderers, the prices quoted, the provision of the necessary tender guarantee and any other formality which the contracting authority thinks appropriate must be announced.
Article 246 Use of the negotiated procedure for works contracts (Article 167 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
For the purposes of point (a) of the first subparagraph, operations carried out in crisis situations as referred to in Article 168(2) shall be considered to satisfy the test of extreme urgency.
The authorising officer by delegation, where appropriate in concertation with the other authorising officers by delegation concerned, shall establish that a situation of extreme urgency exists and shall review his decision regularly with regard to the principle of sound financial management. 2.
The additional works referred to in point (b) of paragraph 1 shall be awarded to the contractor already carrying out the work: (a) where such works cannot be technically or economically separated from the main contract without serious inconvenience for the contracting authority; (b) where such works, although separable from the performance of the original contract, are strictly necessary for its completion; (c) where the aggregate value of contracts awarded for additional works does not exceed 50 % of the value of the principal contract.
Article 247 Use of the negotiated procedure for buildings contracts (Article 167 of the Financial Regulation) Buildings contracts as referred to in Article 235 may be awarded by negotiated procedure after the local market has been prospected and after the Commission has given its agreement if it is not the contracting authority.
Article 249 Tender documents (Article 167 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The tender documents referred to in Article 130 shall be drawn up on the basis of best international practices and in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter regarding advertising and contacts between the contracting authority and tenderers. 2.
Article 250 Guarantees (Articles 102 and 167 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
By way of derogation from Article 150, advance guarantees shall be denominated in euro or in the currency of the contract they cover. 2.
The contracting authority may demand a tender guarantee, within the meaning of this Chapter, representing 1 % to 2 % of the overall value of the contract for supply and works contracts; it shall comply with the provisions of Article 150.
It shall be retained if a tender submitted by the final date for submission is subsequently withdrawn. 3.
A guarantee shall be required in return for the payment of pre-financing exceeding EUR 150000.
A performance guarantee shall be provided by the tenderer upon signing contracts for supplies and works for an amount set in the tender file and corresponding at the most to 10 % of the total value of the contract.
Article 251 Time limits for procedures (Article 167 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
Tenders must reach the contracting authority at the address and by no later than the date and time shown in the invitation to tender.
The period between the date on which the letter of invitation is sent and the final date for the receipt of tenders shall be no less than fifty days.
However, in certain exceptional cases and with the prior authorisation of the Commission, other time limits may be authorised. 4.
However, in certain exceptional cases and with the prior authorisation of the Commission, other time-limits may be authorised. 5.
However, in certain exceptional cases and with the prior authorisation of the Commission, other time-limits may be authorised. 6.
For the competitive negotiated procedures referred to in point (b) of Article 241(1), point (c) of Article 243(1) and point (c) of Article 245(1), candidates shall be allowed at least thirty days from the date of dispatch of the letter of invitation to tender in which to submit their tenders. 7.
For service contracts, the period of validity of the tenders shall be ninety calendar days from the final date for submission of tenders.
The tenderer whose tender is selected must maintain the validity of the tender for a further sixty calendar days from the date of notification of the award of the contract. 8.
For supply contracts, the period of validity of the tenders shall be ninety calendar days from the final date for submission of tenders.
The tenderer whose tender is selected must maintain the validity of the tender for a further sixty calendar days from the date of notification of the award of the contract. 9.
For works contracts, the period of validity of the tenders shall be ninety calendar days from the final date for submission of tenders.
The tenderer whose tender is selected must maintain the validity of the tender for a further sixty calendar days from the date of notification of the award of the contract. 10.
Article 252 Evaluation committee (Article 167 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
CHAPTER 4 Grants Article 253 Financing in full (Article 169 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
By way of derogation from the co-financing requirement in connection with grants, referred to in Article 109 of the Financial Regulation, the financing of an action in full may be authorised in the following cases, save where prohibited by the basic act: (a) humanitarian aid, including assistance for refugees, uprooted persons, rehabilitation and mine disposal; (b) aid in crisis situations within the meaning of Article 168(2); (c) actions for the protection of the health or fundamental rights of peoples; (d) actions resulting from the implementation of financing agreements with third countries or actions with international organisations within the meaning of Article 43. 2.
Grounds shall be provided in the award decision relating to the action in question in the case of any derogation from the co-financing requirement, as provided for in paragraph 1.
The authorising officer must be in a position to show that financing in full is essential to carry out the action in question.
CHAPTER 5 Imprest accounts and inventories Article 254 Creation of imprest accounts (Article 63 of the Financial Regulation) For the payment of certain categories of expenditure, one or more imprest accounts may be set up in each local unit outside the Community in accordance with Article 63 of the Financial Regulation.
Article 256 Inventory and advertising of sales (Article 138 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
TITLE IV (TITLE V OF THE FINANCIAL REGULATION) EUROPEAN OFFICES Article 257 Scope (Article 171 of the Financial Regulation) The offices referred to in Article 171 of the Financial Regulation are as follows: (a) the Office for Official Publications; (b) the European Anti-Fraud Office; (c) the European Communities Personnel Selection Office; (d) the Office for the Administration and Payment of Individual Entitlements; (e) the Office for Infrastructure and Logistics in Brussels and the Office for Infrastructure and Logistics in Luxembourg.
Article 258 Specific rules for the Office for Official Publications (Article 171 of the Financial Regulation) With regard to the Office for Official Publications, each institution shall retain the powers of authorisation for expenditure charged to the appropriations for the publication of all work entrusted to outside bodies by the Office.
Article 259 Delegation of certain tasks by the accounting officer (Article 172 of the Financial Regulation) The Commission accounting officer, acting on a proposal from the management committee of the Office in question, may delegate to a member of the staff of the Office certain of his tasks relating to the collection of revenue and the payment of expenditure effected directly by the Office in question.
Article 260 Treasury - bank accounts (Article 172 of the Financial Regulation) To meet the cash requirements of an interinstitutional Office, bank accounts or post office giro accounts may be opened in its name by the Commission, acting on a proposal from the management committee.
Article 261 Implementing rules (Article 175(1) of the Financial Regulation) The implementing rules laid down by the management committee of each office in accordance with Article 175(1) of the Financial Regulation shall comply entirely with this Regulation.
TITLE V (TITLE VI OF THE FINANCIAL REGULATION) ADMINISTRATIVE APPROPRIATIONS Article 262 Scope (Article 177 of the Financial Regulation) The administrative appropriations covered by this Title shall be those defined in Article 27.
Article 263 Buildings (Article 179(3) of the Financial Regulation) Before concluding the contracts referred to in Article 179(3) of the Financial Regulation, each institution shall submit a communication to the budgetary authority presenting all relevant information on the operation planned, the cost to the budget for the current financial year and for future years, its justification as regards the principle of sound financial management and its impact on the financial perspective.
The institution concerned shall at the same time inform the budgetary authority of its schedule for building projects.
Article 264 Rent guarantees (Article 177 of the Financial Regulation) Rent guarantees provided by the Commission shall take the form of a bank guarantee or a deposit on a blocked bank account in the name of the Commission and of the lessor, denominated in euro, save in duly substantiated cases.
Article 265 Advances to staff and members of the institutions (Article 177 of the Financial Regulation) Advances may be paid, in accordance with the conditions laid down in the Staff Regulations, to staff and to the members of the institutions.
PART THREE TRANSITIONAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS TITLE I TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS Article 266 Transfers of research appropriations (Article 160 of the Financial Regulation) For direct and indirect action in the field of research, referred to in Article 229(2) to (5), the procedure for transfers of appropriations for the financial year 2003 shall be governed by the first and second paragraphs of Article 95 of the Financial Regulation of 21 December 1977.
Article 267 Liquidation of the guarantee account 1.
The credit balance of the guarantee account kept in the general accounts in the name of each accounting officer or assistant accounting officer and credited with the special allowances granted pursuant to Article 75 of the Financial Regulation of 21 December 1977 shall be paid to the persons concerned or to those entitled under them by decision of the institutions, after they have been granted discharge in respect of the financial years 2001 and 2002 in accordance with the opinion of the accounting officer where he is not personally concerned. 2.
The credit balance of the guarantee account kept in the general accounts in the name of each imprest administrator and credited with the special allowances granted pursuant to Article 75 of the Financial Regulation of 21 December 1977 shall be paid to the persons concerned or those entitled under them with the agreement of, and after verification by, the accounting officer and the authorising officer concerned. 3.
The guarantee account shall be credited with interest corresponding to the annual average of the monthly rates applied by the European Central Bank to its principal refinancing operations, in euro, as published in the C series of the Official Journal of the European Communities, up to the date of liquidation.
Article 268 Conversion into euro of commitments or estimates of amounts receivable from before 1 January 2003 (Article 16 of the Financial Regulation) Budget commitments and the estimates of amounts receivable referred to in Article 161(2) of the Financial Regulation made before 1 January 2003 in a currency other than the euro shall be calculated in euro by no later than 1 June 2003 at the rate referred to in Article 7, applicable on 1 January 2003.
Article 269 Decentralised management of pre-accession aid (Article 53 of the Financial Regulation) In connection with the pre-accession aid referred to in Council Regulation (EEC) No 3906/89(22) and Council Regulation (EC) No 555/2000(23), the rules concerning prior checks laid down in Article 35 shall not affect the decentralised management already in operation with the candidate countries in question.
TITLE II FINAL PROVISIONS Article 270 Bodies referred to in Article 185 of the Financial Regulation (Article 185 of the Financial Regulation) Bodies which actually receive a grant charged to the Community budget and which are included in a list drawn up by the Commission and attached to the preliminary draft budget for each financial year shall be subject to the obligations referred to in Articles 14(2), point (3)(d) of Article 46(1) and Article 185 of the Financial Regulation.
Article 271 Updating of thresholds and amounts 1.
The thresholds and amounts laid down in Articles 67, 128, 129, 151, 152, 173, 180, 181, 222 and 226 shall be updated every three years in line with movements in the consumer price index in the Community. 2.
The thresholds referred to in point (b) of Article 157 and points (a) and (c) of Article 158(1) in respect of procurement contracts shall be adjusted every two years pursuant to point (b) of Article 7(1) of Directive 92/50/EEC, point (a) of Article 6(2) of Directive 93/37/EEC and point (c) of Article 5(1) of Directive 93/36/EEC. 3.
Article 272 Repeal Regulation (Euratom, ECSC, EC) No 3418/93 is repealed.
Article 273 Entry into force This Regulation shall enter into force on 1 January 2003.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
Done at Brussels, 23 December 2002.
For the Commission Michaele Schreyer Member of the Commission (1) OJ L 248, 16.9.2002, p. 1. (2) OJ L 315, 16.12.1993, p. 1. (3) OJ L 228, 24.8.2001, p. 8. (4) OJ L 130, 31.5.2000, p. 1. (5) OJ L 200, 8.8.2000, p. 35. (6) OJ L 209, 24.7.1992, p. 1. (7) OJ L 199, 9.8.1993, p. 1. (8) OJ L 199, 9.8.1993, p. 54. (9) OJ L 285, 29.10.2001, p. 1. (10) SEC(1999) 1801. (11) OJ L 39, 17.2.1996, p. 5. (12) OJ L 209, 2.8.1997, p. 6. (13) Entscheidung or Beschluss. (14) OJ C 316, 27.11.1995, p. 48. (15) OJ C 195, 25.6.1997, p. 1. (16) OJ L 315, 29.12.1998, p. 1. (17) OJ L 166, 28.6.1991, p. 77. (18) OJ L 8, 12.1.2001, p. 1. (19) OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1. (20) OJ L 57, 27.2.2001, p. 5. (21) OJ L 346, 17.12.1997, p. 23. (22) OJ L 375, 23.12.1989, p. 11. (23) OJ L 68, 16.3.2000, p. 3.
