Article 2 The direct or indirect supply, sale or transfer of luxury goods to the DPRK by nationals of Member States or through or from the territories of member states, or using their flag vessels or aircraft, shall be prohibited whether originating or not in their territories.
Paragraph 1 will not oblige a Member State to refuse its own nationals entry into its territory. 3.
Paragraph 1 shall not apply where the Committee determines on a case-by-case basis that such travel is justified on the grounds of humanitarian need, including religious obligations, or where the Committee concludes that an exemption would otherwise further the objectives of UNSCR 1718 (2006). 4.
Exemptions may also be made for funds and economic resources which are: (a) necessary for extraordinary expenses, after notification by the Member State concerned to and approval by the Committee; or (b) the subject of a judicial, administrative or arbitral lien or judgment, in which case the funds and economic resources may be used to satisfy that lien or judgment, provided that the lien or judgment was entered prior to the date of UNSCR 1718 (2006), and is not for the benefit of a person or entity referred to in paragraph 1, after notification by the Member State concerned to the Committee. 5.
Paragraph 2 shall not apply to the addition to frozen accounts of: (a) interest or other earnings on those accounts; or (b) payments due under contracts, agreements or obligations that were concluded or arose prior to 14 October 2006, provided that any such interest, other earnings and payments continue to be subject to paragraph 1.
Article 6 The Council shall establish the list contained in the Annex and implement any modifications thereto on the basis of the determinations made by the Committee or the UN Security Council.
Article 7 This Common Position shall be reviewed, and, if necessary, amended, notably as regards the categories of persons, entities or items or additional persons, entities or items to be covered by the restrictive measures, or taking into account relevant UNSC resolutions.
Article 8 This Common Position shall take effect on the date of its adoption.
Article 9 This common position shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Done at Brussels, 20 November 2006.
Korkeaoja -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX List of persons referred to in Article 3 --------------------------------------------------
