PREVIOUS INVESTIGATION (1) By Regulation (EC) No 821/94(2), following an expiry review, the Council imposed definitive anti-dumping duties on imports of silicon carbide, falling within CN code 28492000, originating in the People's Republic of China (hereinafter referred to as %quot%China%quot%), the Russian Federation (hereinafter referred to as %quot%Russia%quot%) and the Ukraine.
The request was based on the grounds that the expiry of the measures would be likely to result in the continuation or recurrence of dumping and injury to the Community industry. (3) Having determined, after consulting the Advisory Committee, that sufficient evidence existed for the initiation of a review, the Commission initiated an investigation pursuant to Article 11(2) of Council Regulation (EC) No 384/96 (hereinafter referred to as the %quot%basic Regulation%quot%) through the publication of a notice of initiation(4). (4) The investigation of the possibility of continuation and/or recurrence of dumping covered the period from 1 January 1998 to 31 December 1998 (hereinafter referred to as %quot%investigation period%quot% or %quot%IP%quot%).
The Commission also gave the parties directly concerned the opportunity to make their views known in writing and to request a hearing. (6) All the applicant Community producers replied to the questionnaire, as well as four importers, two traders associated to a related importer and six users.
GmbH, Marktredwitz, Germany, - Werner Kessl Giessereibedarf, Trabitz, Germany.
PRODUCT CONCERNED AND LIKE PRODUCT (10) The product concerned by this proceeding is silicon carbide, falling within CN code 28492000 (hereinafter referred to as %quot%silicon carbide%quot% or the %quot%product concerned%quot%). (11) The production process of silicon carbide is such that output automatically comprises a variety of qualities of silicon carbide which can be segregated into two main grades: crystalline and metallurgical.
based on information obtained in a market-economy third country where the product was produced and sold. (17) After examination of the worldwide silicon carbide market, the Commission concluded that Brazil was the appropriate choice of analogue country for the following reasons: - the size of its domestic market makes Brazil a representative country for the establishment of normal value for the countries concerned, - domestic prices in Brazil are governed by normal market forces given the level of demand in the market and the existence of competing producers, - in terms of the range of qualities of silicon carbide and its basic physical and chemical characteristics, the product manufactured in Brazil can be considered identical to the product exported from the countries concerned. (18) On this basis, it was concluded that Brazil was a reasonable and appropriate choice as an analogue country in order to establish normal value for imports of silicon carbide originating in China, Russia and the Ukraine. (c) Normal value (19) Normal value was calculated on the basis of the data of the cooperating Brazilian company. (20) First of all, it was examined whether the domestic sales made by the cooperating Brazilian company were representative when compared to the imports into the Community from the three countries concerned.
crystalline and metallurgical, exported from the countries subject to investigation to the Community. (21) It was then examined whether the relevant sales could be considered as having been made in the ordinary course of trade, comparing domestic prices and costs of production for each grade of silicon carbide. (22) For crystalline silicon carbide the sales were made in the ordinary course of trade and normal value was therefore based on the actual price on the Brazilian market. (23) As the sales of metallurgical silicon carbide in the Brazilian domestic market were made at a net sales price that was lower than the cost of production, these actual prices could not be used to establish normal value.
However, as far as the Ukraine and China are concerned, the import volumes during the IP were comparatively low (below 1 % of Community consumption).
The same sources rate the actual Chinese production at about 70 % of its potential. (34) Under these circumstances, the Chinese producers are capable of producing additional quantities, which would represent around 70 % of the Community consumption during the IP. (35) Currently, the Chinese exports of silicon carbide already strongly dominate the American and Japanese markets and it is unlikely that their domestic consumption will increase significantly in the coming years.
It was further found that the price of the Chinese material sold on the American market was substantially below the normal value established in Brazil and also lower than the price of the metallurgical grade of silicon carbide sold by the Community producers on the Community market.
The Commission also based its analysis on information provided in the review request as well as on information obtained from the specialised press and market studies. (40) The investigation has established that the capacity utilisation of this exporting producer was less than 60 % during the IP.
In terms of quantities, and given the total Community consumption, it would be in a position to produce additional volumes representing around 6 % of the Community consumption during the IP. (41) The investigation has established that the largest export market for the Ukraine is the Czech Republic.
These were found to be significantly lower than the prices of silicon carbide produced and sold by the Community industry on the Community market and also lower than the Ukrainian export prices charged in the Community. (42) The Ukrainian exports to the Czech Republic give a clear indication of their potential export behaviour on the Community market, both in terms of volume and value, if measures were repealed. (43) Given the attractiveness of the Community market in terms of prices compared to other markets, it is concluded that current import volumes into the Community from the Ukraine are likely to increase substantially should measures be repealed.
Therefore, they constitute the Community industry within the meaning of Article 4(1) and Article 5(4) of the basic Regulation. (46) It should be noted that two out of the four Community producers representing the Community industry in the previous investigations ceased their silicon carbide related operations a few months after the imposition of the measures currently in force.
Only 1998 (the IP) showed an increase in consumption which can be explained by the increased activity of the steel industry and should thus be considered exceptional.
The exceptional character of the consumption in 1998 is confirmed by figures available for the first six months of 1999 which are comparable to the levels reached in 1996 and 1997. 2.
IMPORTS FROM THE COUNTRIES CONCERNED (a) Import volume and market share of the imports concerned (49) The import volume of silicon carbide originating in the countries concerned dropped significantly from 37886 tonnes in 1995 to 15492 tonnes in the IP, equivalent to a decrease of about 59 % during the IIP.
lower) grades while imports originating in the two other countries concerned cover both metallurgical and crystalline grades. (52) On this basis Eurostat figures showed that the Russian prices increased by 11 % between 1995 and the IP, while the average prices of exports from China and the Ukraine decreased by 28 % and 8 %, respectively. (ii) Price behaviour (53) In order to examine the exporters' price behaviour in relation to that of the Community industry, a price comparison was made and it was established that, during the IP, the prices of the imports concerned (at a customs and anti-dumping duty-paid level) were on average significantly below the Community industry's sales prices.
ECONOMIC SITUATION OF THE COMMUNITY INDUSTRY (a) Production (54) The production of silicon carbide by the Community industry increased by 13,4 % between 1995 and the IP.
During 1997 and the IP, investment was then mainly related to the improvement and renewal of existing equipment.
IMPORT VOLUME, MARKET SHARES AND IMPORT PRICES FROM OTHER THIRD COUNTRIES (a) Import volume and market shares (65) The import volume of silicon carbide from other third countries increased during the IIP by around 30000 tonnes, representing an increase of 27 %.
In terms of market shares, these third countries gained about nine percentage points. (66) It should be noted that 80 % of these imports originated only from three countries, namely Norway, Venezuela and the Czech Republic.
However, the Venezuelan imports increased by 163 % during the IIP, more than doubling their market share which reached around 10 % during the IP.
As far as the Czech imports and market share is concerned they increased fivefold during the same period reaching a level of around 6 % during the IP.
CONCLUSION ON THE SITUATION IN THE COMMUNITY MARKET (68) The measures currently in force have had a significant positive impact on the Community industry since 1995.
Indeed, most of the economic factors analysed showed a positive development from 1995 to the IP: production volume and the production-capacity utilisation increased by 13 %, sales volume increased by 15 %, and there was a slight gain in of market share.
The Russian imports have decreased less drastically and have remained stable at a market share of around 5 % to 10 %.
Furthermore, having regard to their export behaviour on third-country markets, mainly the Czech Republic, both in terms of volume and prices, it appears that the Community market would be highly attractive also for these exporters should measures lapse. (76) Since the imposition of the measures, imports into the Czech Republic originating in Russia and the Ukraine have multiplied by 6,5 in terms of volume reaching a level corresponding to 6 % of Community consumption. (77) Should the measures be repealed, the Russian and Ukrainian exporters will be able to redirect some of their significant exports to the Community and market their production surplus, and this would take place at prices which would undercut the Community industry's prices, as indicated by their price behaviour on third-country markets.
CONCLUSION ON THE LIKELIHOOD OF CONTINUATION AND/OR RECURRENCE OF INJURIOUS DUMPING (78) In view of the above, namely the following factors: - should the measures be repealed, there is a likelihood that imports from the three countries concerned would continue at dumped prices because there has been a continuation of dumping and no reasons are apparent as to why dumping would stop in the near future, - there is a likelihood that import volumes would rise significantly because there are clear indications that the three countries concerned have the potential to raise their production and export volumes in view of their large unused production capacity and the significant exports to third-country markets, - furthermore, the likelihood that import volumes would rise significantly is reinforced by their export behaviour in these third-country markets after the imposition of the anti-dumping measures currently in force, - furthermore, it is also likely that the prices charged by the exporters from the countries concerned, in the absence of anti-dumping measures, would be significantly below the prices of the Community industry considering, on the one hand, the price behaviour of these exporters on their major export markets and, on the other hand, the low prices (even including duty) that they currently apply to their exports to the Community market.
INTERESTS OF THE COMMUNITY INDUSTRY (82) It is considered that a repeal of the anti-dumping measures imposed in the previous investigation would be likely to result in the recurrence of injurious dumping and that consequently the situation of the Community industry, which has improved but is still fragile, would deteriorate. (83) The Community industry has developed the production of very high quality silicon carbide.
There could therefore be a risk that competition in the sector could become more and more difficult for the %quot%independent%quot% users. (91) Two users were in favour of repealing the measures.
A definitive anti-dumping duty is hereby imposed on imports of silicon carbide, falling within CN code 28492000, originating in the People's Republic of China, the Russian Federation and the Ukraine. 2.
The amount of the duty applicable to the net, free-at-Community-frontier price, before customs clearance, shall be as follows: - People's Republic of China: 52,6 %, - the Russian Federation: 23,3 % (TARIC additional code 8747), - the Ukraine: 24 %. 3.
The duty shall not apply to imports of the product concerned as described in paragraph 1, exported to the Community by the company V/O Stankoimport, Moscow, Russia (TARIC additional code 8746).
Article 3 This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Done at Brussels, 22 May 2000.
