Article 2 For the years 1988 onwards, the estimation of dwelling services, in accordance with the principles set out in the Annex, are to be submitted to the Commission (Eurostat) no later than 30 September 1996.
Article 3 This Decision is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 18 July 1995.
For the Commission Yves-Thibault DE SILGUY Member of the Commission (1) OJ No L 49, 21. 2. 1989, p. 26.
ANNEX For the purpose of the implementation of Article 1 of Directive 89/130/EEC, Euratom, the following points aim to clarify the principles for the estimation of output, intermediate consumption and transactions with the rest of the world, regarding dwelling services. 1.
This difference in procedure may to a certain extent be explained by the fact that the percentage of owner-occupied dwellings in different Member States varies between 42 % and 77 %.
Stratification of the housing stock 1.2.1.
A second set of variables relate to environmental characteristics.
Therefore the use of capital values for stratification purposes may be considered.
This in turn requires that a basic analysis is carried out thoroughly on the actual rents used to calculate the value for a stratum.
Principle 2: For stratification purposes, Member States shall use important features of the dwellings.
However, even in a situation of restricted statistical information, this could be an incentive for future improvements.
The breakdown of the housing stock has to be meaningful and representative of the total stock of dwellings.
In practice, however, a Member State may prefer to use fewer variables, or variables other than those prescribed by the standard method.
To guarantee comparable results, a correlation coefficient of at least 70 % is recommended as a threshold.
The use of fewer or other variables is acceptable, if it has been proved previously that the (multiple) correlation coefficient reaches 70 %. 1.2.3.
Principle 4: The actual rent shall be understood as the rent due for the right to use an unfurnished dwelling.
Sources for the base year estimate and methods of extrapolation 1.3.1.
Using the information provided by households in a population census as the basis of the housing stock may cause problems because the results tend to underestimate second homes which are not occupied at the census date.
Another problem of a family budget survey, at least in some countries, concerns its small size which may restrict the possibility of stratifying the rents.
Taking account in this respect of the periodicity of the relevant basic statistics it seems appropriate to carry out a benchmarking of the housing stock every 10 years, i.e., the normal interval for population censuses.
To extrapolate the imputed rent for owner-occupied dwellings, in general, a price index reflecting private rents shall be applied.
Special problems 1.4.1.
Principle 8: The actual rent observed in the case of rent-free and cheap dwellings shall be corrected to include the full dwelling service.
However, if the actual rents collected are on a monthly basis, the extrapolation to the yearly total may lead to over-estimates if no supplementary information on the average occupation time is included.
Thirdly, it is acceptable to use the full annual rent for ordinary dwellings, in the same stratum of location, where holiday homes account for a very minor part of the housing stock or where they cannot be separated from other dwellings.
Although stratification would seem desirable, holiday homes may be grouped in one stratum.
Principle 10: With regard to time-share accommodation, the same procedures shall be applied as for holiday homes. 1.4.4.
Secondly, in line with the general solution agreed for holiday homes and timeshare accommodation, the annual rent implicitly reflects the average time of occupancy.
The problem of empty dwellings is therefore restricted to non-rented dwellings which are not used by the owner i.e., which are available to be sold or rented.
Principle 13: Garages and parking places provide services to be included in dwelling services if structurally integrated in the dwelling. 2.
To take account of owner-occupied dwellings owned by non-residents, an exchange of information between the Member States is required.
