The Commission is, as a rule, responsible for adopting measures to implement such programmes (Community programmes). (2) Implementation of the Community programmes concerned is financed, at least in part, from appropriations entered in the general budget of the European Union. (3) Under Article 274 of the Treaty, the Commission is responsible for implementing the budget. (4) If the Commission is to be properly accountable to citizens, it must focus primarily on its institutional tasks.
Tasks which may be delegated include managing all or some of the phases in the lifetime of a given project, implementing the budget, gathering and processing information to be forwarded to the Commission and preparing recommendations for the Commission. (14) Since the budget of an executive agency is intended to finance only its running costs, its revenue should consist chiefly of a subsidy entered in the general budget of the European Union, to be determined by the budgetary authority, and drawn from the financial allocation to the Community programme in the management of which the agency is involved. (15) With a view to the application of Article 274 of the Treaty, the operational appropriations of the Community programmes which an executive agency is involved in managing must continue to be entered in the general budget of the European Union and must be implemented by direct charging to that budget.
The financial operations relating to these appropriations must therefore be carried out in accordance with Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities(5). (16) An executive agency may be entrusted with implementing tasks relating to the management of programmes which are financed from sources other than the general budget of the European Union.
Article 2 Definitions For the purpose of this Regulation: (a) %quot%executive agency%quot% means a legal entity established in accordance with this Regulation; (b) %quot%Community programme%quot% means any activity, set of activities or other initiative which the relevant basic instrument or budgetary authorisation requires the Commission to implement for the benefit of one or more categories of specific beneficiaries, by committing expenditure.
The Commission shall adopt the decisions referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 24(2).
The Commission shall forward to the Committee referred to in Article 24(1) all the information necessary in this context, in particular the cost-benefit analysis referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article and the evaluation reports referred to in Article 25. 4.
Article 4 Legal status 1.
Article 5 Location 1.
An executive agency shall be located at the place where the Commission and its departments are located, in accordance with the Protocol on the location of the seats of the institutions and of certain bodies and departments of the European Communities and of Europol. 2.
Article 6 Tasks 1.
The terms, criteria, parameters and procedures with which an executive agency must comply when performing the tasks referred to in paragraph 2 and the details of the checks to be performed by the Commission departments responsible for Community programmes in the management of which an agency is involved shall be defined by the Commission in the instrument of delegation.
Article 8 Steering Committee 1.
The term of office of the members of the Steering Committee shall be two years in principle and shall take into account the length of time fixed for implementation of the Community programme, management of which has been entrusted to the executive agency.
The Steering Committee's decisions shall be adopted by a simple majority of votes.
Article 9 Tasks of the Steering Committee 1.
The Steering Committee shall adopt its own rules of procedure. 2.
The work programme must comply with the programming defined by the Commission in accordance with the instruments establishing the Community programmes in the management of which the executive agency is involved.
The Steering Committee shall adopt the executive agency's administrative budget by the procedure laid down in Article 13. 4.
The Steering Committee shall decide on the organisation of the departments of the executive agency. 6.
The Steering Committee shall adopt any special rules needed to implement the right of access to the executive agency's documents in accordance with Article 23(1). 7.
No later than 31 March of each year, the Steering Committee shall adopt and submit to the Commission an annual activity report together with financial and management information.
The report shall be drawn up in accordance with Article 60(7) of Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002.
The Commission shall no later than 15 June each year send to the budgetary authority a summary of executive agencies' annual reports for the previous year, to be attached to that referred to in Article 60(7) of Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002. 8.
The Steering Committee shall adopt and apply measures to combat fraud and irregularities. 9.
Article 10 Director 1.
Article 11 Tasks of the director 1.
The director shall prepare the work of the Steering Committee, in particular the draft annual work programme of the executive agency.
In particular, the director shall be responsible for performance of the tasks referred to in Article 6 and shall take the relevant decisions to that effect.
The director shall draw up the provisional statement of revenue and expenditure and, as authorising officer, shall implement the executive agency's administrative budget in accordance with the Financial Regulation referred to in Article 15. 5.
These are the annual reports on the activities of the executive agency referred to in Article 9(7) and all other reports, of a general or specific nature, which the Commission asks the executive agency to produce. 6.
The director shall be empowered under the arrangements applicable to other servants of the European Communities to conclude employment contracts in respect of staff of the executive agency.
Article 12 Operating budget 1.
The revenue and expenditure of the executive agency's operating budget shall be in balance. 3.
The executive agency's revenue shall include a subsidy entered in the general budget of the European Union, without prejudice to other revenue to be determined by the budgetary authority, drawn from the financial allocation to the Community programmes which the agency is involved in the management of.
Article 13 Preparation of the operating budget 1.
No later than 1 March each year, the Steering Committee shall adopt the draft operating budget, including the establishment plan, for the following financial year and shall submit it to the Commission. 3.
On the basis of this draft budget and in the light of the Commission's programming for the Community programmes in the management of which the executive agency is involved, the Commission shall propose, as part of the annual budget procedure, the annual subsidy to the executive agency's operating budget. 4.
Article 14 Implementation of the operating budget and discharge 1.
The director shall implement the executive agency's operating budget. 2.
The executive agency's accounts shall be consolidated with those of the Commission in accordance with the procedure laid down in Articles 127 and 128 of Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 and in accordance with the following: (a) each year, the director shall submit detailed provisional accounts of all revenue and expenditure for the previous financial year to the Steering Committee, which shall forward them, by 1 March at the latest, to the Commission's accounting officer and to the Court of Auditors; (b) the final accounts shall be sent to the Commission's accounting officer and the Court of Auditors by 1 July of the following year at the latest. 3.
Article 15 Financial Regulation applicable to the operating budget The standard financial regulation applicable to the operating budget of an executive agency shall be adopted by the Commission.
Article 16 Financial Regulation applicable to the operational appropriations 1.
Where the Commission has delegated tasks to the executive agency relating to the budget implementation of operational appropriations for Community programmes in accordance with Article 6(2)(b), such appropriations shall be entered in the general budget of the European Union and shall be implemented by direct charging to that budget under the responsibility of the Commission. 2.
Discharge in respect of implementation of the operational appropriations shall be given within the framework of the discharge given in respect of the general budget of the European Union, in accordance with Article 276, of which it is an integral part.
Article 17 Programmes financed from sources other than the general budget of the European Union Articles 13 and 16 shall apply without prejudice to specific provisions laid down in the basic instruments relating to programmes financed from sources other than the general budget of the European Union.
Article 18 Staff 1.
Article 20 Supervision 1.
Such supervision shall follow the procedures it shall adopt in accordance with Article 6(3). 2.
The Steering Committee shall formalise this acceptance and adopt the provisions needed to facilitate internal inquiries conducted by OLAF. 5.
The Court of Auditors shall examine the executive agency's accounts in accordance with Article 248 of the Treaty. 6.
Article 21 Liability 1.
Article 22 Legality of acts 1.
An action for annulment of the Commission's explicit or implicit decision to reject the administrative appeal may be brought before the Court of Justice, in accordance with Article 230 of the Treaty.
Article 23 Access to documents and confidentiality 1.
Executive agencies shall be subject to Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2001 on public access to European Parliament, Council and Commission documents(9) when it receives a request for access to a document in its possession.
Article 24 Committee 1.
Where reference is made to this paragraph, Articles 5 and 7 of Decision 1999/468/EC shall apply.
Article 25 Evaluation 1.
It shall include a cost-benefit analysis as referred to in Article 3(1). 2.
Article 26 Interim measures As far as executive agencies have already been set up: (a) the annual activity report referred to in Article 9(7) shall be drawn up for the first time for the 2003 financial year; (b) the deadline referred to in Article 14(2)(b) for transmission of the final accounts shall apply for the first time to the 2005 financial year; (c) for the financial years prior to 2005 the deadline for transmission of the final accounts shall be 15 September.
Article 27 Entry into force This Regulation shall enter into force on the 10th day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
Done at Brussels, 19 December 2002.
Espersen (1) OJ C 120 E, 24.4.2001, p. 89 and OJ C 103 E, 30.4.2002, p. 253. (2) Opinion delivered on 5 July 2001 (not yet published in the Official Journal). (3) OJ C 345, 6.12.2001, p. 1. (4) OJ L 184, 17.7.1999, p. 23. (5) OJ L 248, 16.9.2002, p. 1. (6) OJ L 56, 4.3.1968, p. 1.
