By way of derogation from Article 8 of the Financial Regulation, these readjustments shall be entered in the accounts in respect of the financial year of the amending budget in question.
Otherwise, the adjustment shall be made on the second due date following final adoption of the budget."; (f) paragraph 4 shall be replaced by the following: "4.
The Commission shall work out the balance and shall inform the Member States in time for them to enter it in the account referred to in Article 9(1) of this Regulation on the first working day of December of the same year."; (g) paragraph 5 shall be deleted. (h) The first subparagraph of paragraph 6 shall be replaced by the following: "6.
Where, pursuant to the Amsterdam Treaty and its Protocols 4 and 5, a Member State does not take part in the financing of a specific Union action or policy, it shall be entitled to an adjustment, calculated in accordance with paragraph 2, of the amount it has paid in own resources in respect of each year in which it has not taken part.
The Commission shall calculate the adjustment during the year following the financial year concerned, at the same time as it determines the GNP balances provided for in Article 10 of this Regulation.
Any delay in making the entry in the account referred to in Article 9(1) shall give rise to the payment of interest by the Member State concerned. 2.
They shall be shown in an annex to the quarterly statement referred to in Article 6(4)(b) and where applicable, in the quarterly statement referred to in Article 6(5)."; (b) the following paragraphs shall be inserted: "3.
This report, which shall be made on a form to be produced by the Commission after consulting the committee referred to in Article 20, shall include all the facts necessary for a full examination of the reasons referred to in paragraph 2(a) and (b), which prevented the Member State concerned from making available the amounts in question, and the recovery measures the Member State took in the case or cases in question. 4.
Article 2 The other provisions of Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1150/2000 shall remain in force in so far as they are not specifically amended by this Regulation.
Done at Brussels, 16 November 2004.
