PREVIOUS PROCEDURE (1) The Council, by Regulation (EC) No 2164/98 [2], imposed a definitive countervailing duty on imports of certain broad spectrum antibiotics, namely amoxicillin trihydrate, ampicillin trihydrate and cefalexin not put up in measured doses or in forms or packings for retail sale (the product concerned) falling within CN codes ex29411010, ex29411020 and ex29419000 originating in India.
The measures took the form of an ad valorem duty ranging between 0 % and 12 % on individual exporters, with a residual duty rate of 14,6 % for non-cooperating exporters.
CURRENT PROCEDURE 1.
Request for review (2) Following the imposition of definitive measures, the Commission received a request for the initiation of an accelerated review of Regulation (EC) No 2164/98 pursuant to Article 20 of the basic Regulation, from an Indian producer of the product concerned, Nestor Pharmaceuticals Limited (the applicant).
Initiation of an accelerated review (3) The Commission examined the evidence submitted by the applicant and considered it sufficient to justify the initiation of a review in accordance with the provisions of Article 20 of the basic Regulation.
Product concerned (4) The product covered by this review is the same product as the one under consideration in Regulation (EC) No 2164/98. 4.
Investigation period (5) The investigation of subsidisation covered the period from 1 April 2002 to 31 March 2003 (the review investigation period). 5.
The Commission sought and verified all information it deemed necessary for the purpose of the investigation and carried out verification visits at the premises of the applicant in New Delhi and in Hyderabad.
Therefore, in accordance with Article 20 of the basic Regulation, the Commission examined whether an individual countervailing duty rate could be determined for the applicant. 2.
Duty Entitlement Passbook Scheme (DEPBS) General (13) It was established that the applicant received benefits under the DEPBS on a post-export basis.
At the point in time of the export transaction, a declaration must be made by the exporter to the authorities in India indicating that the export is taking place under the DEPBS.
De facto no strict deadlines to apply exist, because the time periods mentioned in Chapter 4.47 of the HOP I 02-07 are always counted from the most recent export transaction included in a given DEPBS application. (19) The main characteristics of the DEPBS have not changed since the original investigation.
Calculation of the subsidy amount (20) In the original investigation the DEPBS subsidy amount was calculated on the basis of best information available in accordance with Article 28(1) of the basic Regulation and pro rata temporis the DEPBS rate was regarded as the corresponding subsidy rate.
Income Tax Exemption Scheme (ITES) (26) It was established that the applicant received the benefit of a partial income tax exemption on profits from export sales during the review investigation period.
Consequently, this scheme will not confer any benefits on the applicant after 31 March 2004.
Export Processing Zones (EPZ)/Export Oriented Units (EOU) (30) It was established that the applicant was not located in an EPZ nor did it operate under the EOU scheme and as a result, had not availed itself of these schemes. 2.3.
Other scheme used by the applicant in relation to the product concerned and found countervailable: Advance Licence Scheme for physical exports (ALS physical exports) Legal basis (31) It was established that the applicant received benefits under this scheme during the review investigation period.
The applicant has not refuted that in the present case de facto, not de jure, the verification system of actual consumption was not applied effectively by the GOI.
The scheme was never analysed on a basis of facts comparable with those established during the present investigation, in particular in view of the imprecision of the SION for the product concerned. (41) Consequently, in the absence of a permitted duty drawback system or substitution drawback system and in view of the fact that the verification system is not applied effectively for the purpose intended, the countervailable benefit is the remission of total import duties normally due upon importation.
On this basis, the subsidy obtained was 22 %. 3.
Total amount of countervailable subsidies (43) Taking account of the findings relating to the schemes as set out above, the amount of countervailable subsidies for the applicant is as follows: (%) | | DEPBS | ALS | Total | Nestor Pharmaceuticals Ltd | 3,3 | 22 | 25,3 | (44) In accordance with Article 15(1) of the basic Regulation, the amount of the countervailing duty should be less than the total amount of countervailable subsidies, if such lesser duty were to be adequate to remove the injury to the Community industry.
Done at Brussels, 18 October 2004.
