Badische Gebäudeversicherungsanstalt, Karlsruhe, 2.
Bayerische Landesbrandversicherungsanstalt, Munich, 3.
Braunschweigische Landesbrandversicherungsanstalt, Brunswick, 5.
Hamburger Feuerkasse, Hamburg, 6.
Hessische Brandversicherungsanstalt (Hessische Brandversicherungskammer), Darmstadt, 7.
Hohenzollernsche Feuerversicherungsanstalt, Sigmaringen, 9.
Lippische Landesbrandversicherungsanstalt, Detmold, 10.
Nassauische Brandversicherungsanstalt, Wiesbaden, 11.
Oldenburgische Landesbrandkasse, Oldenburg, 12.
Ostfriesische Landschaftliche Brandkasse, Aurich, 13.
Krankenversorgung der Bundesbahnbeamten; (b) In France The following institutions: 1.
Caisse départementale des incendiés des Ardennes, 2.
Caisse départementale des incendiés de la Côte-d'Or, 3.
Caisse départementale des incendiés de la Marne, 4.
Caisse départementale des incendiés de la Meuse, 5.
Caisse départementale des incendiés de la Somme, 6.
Caisse départementale grêle du Gers, 7.
Caisse départementale grêle de l'Hérault; (c) In Ireland Voluntary Health Insurance Board; (d) In Italy, The Cassa di Previdenza per l'assicurazione degli sportivi (Sportass); (e) In the United Kingdom The Crown Agents.
Section B : Conditions for exercise of business Article 13 Member States shall collaborate closely with one another in supervising the financial position of authorized undertakings.
Article 14 The supervisory authority of the Member State in whose territory the head office of the undertaking is situated must verify the state of solvency of the undertaking with respect to its entire business.
Each Member State shall require every undertaking whose head office is situated in its territory to establish an adequate solvency margin in respect of its entire business.
In particular the following shall be considered: - the paid up share capital or, in the case of a mutual concern, the effective initial fund, - one-half of the share capital or the initial fund which is not yet paid up, once the paid-up part reaches 25 % of this capital or fund, - reserves (statutory reserves and free reserves) not corresponding to underwriting liabilities, - any carry-forward of profits, - in the case of a mutual or mutual-type association with variable contributions, any claim which it has against its members by way of a call for supplementary contribution, within the financial year, up to one-half of the difference between the maximum contributions and the contributions actually called in, and subject to an over-riding limit of 50 % of the margin, - at the request of, and upon proof being shown by the undertaking, and with the agreement of the supervisory authorities of each other Member State where it carries on its business, any hidden reserves resulting from under-estimation of assets or over-estimation of liabilities in the balance sheet, in so far as such hidden reserves are not of an exceptional nature.
Over-estimation of technical reserves shall be determined in relation to their amount calculated by the undertaking in conformity to national regulations ; however, pending further coordination of technical reserves, an amount equivalent to 75 % of the difference between the amount of the reserve for outstanding risks calculated at a flat rate by the undertaking by application of a minimum percentage in relation to premiums and the amount that would have been obtained by calculating the reserve contract by contract where the national law gives an option between the two methods, can be taken into account in the solvency margin up to 20 %. 2.
The first result shall be obtained by multiplying the sum so calculated by the ratio existing in respect of the last financial year between the amount of claims remaining to be borne by the undertaking after deduction of transfers for reinsurance and the gross amount of claims ; this ratio may in no case be less than 50 %.
One-third, or one-seventh, of the amount so obtained, according to the period of reference established in (2), shall be divided into two portions, the first extending up to seven million units of account and the second comprising the excess ; 26 % and 23 % of these portions respectively shall be calculated and added together.
The second result shall be obtained by multiplying the sum so obtained by the ratio existing in respect of the last financial year between the amount of claims remaining to be borne by the business after transfers for reinsurance and the gross amount of claims ; this ratio may in no case be less than 50 %. 4.
The Federal Republic of Germany may, however, pending further coordination of the conditions for the taking up and pursuit of the business of life assurance maintain, with respect to health insurance within the meaning of Article 16 (4), the restrictions imposed on the free disposal of assets in so far as the free disposal of assets which cover mathematical reserves is subject to the agreement of a %quot%Treuhänder%quot%.
For the purposes of restoring the financial situation of an undertaking whose solvency margin has fallen below the minimum required under Article 16 (3), the supervisory authority of the head-office country shall require a plan for the restoration of a sound financial position to be submitted for its approval. 3.
The supervisory authorities of other Member States in whose territory the undertaking in question has also been authorized shall collaborate for the purpose of implementing the provisions referred to in (1) to (4).
Section C : Withdrawal of authorization Article 22 1.
The authorization granted by the competent authority of the Member State in whose territory the head office is situated may be withdrawn by such authority if the undertaking: (a) No longer fulfils the conditions of admission; (b) Has been unable, within the time allowed, to take the measures contained in the restoration plan or finance scheme referred to in Article 20; (c) Fails seriously in its obligations under the national regulations.
The supervisory authority of the head-office country shall, in conjunction with such other authorities, take all necessary measures to safeguard the interests of the insured and, in particular, shall restrict the free disposal of the assets of the undertaking if such restriction has not been already imposed in accordance with the provisions of Article 20 (1) and (3), subparagraph 2. 2.
Title III - Rules applicable to agencies or branches established within the Community and belonging to undertakings whose head offices are outside the Community Article 23 1.
Article 24 Member States shall require undertakings to establish adequate technical reserves to cover the underwriting liabilities assumed in their territories.
The Member State in question shall require that the assets representing the technical reserves shall be localized in its territory.
The initial deposit lodged in accordance with Article 23 (2) (e) shall be counted towards such guarantee fund. 3.
Any undertaking which, having obtained an authorization from one Member State, obtains an authorization from one or more other Member States to establish other agencies or branches therein may apply for one or more of the following advantages: (a) That the solvency margin referred to in Article 25 be calculated in relation to the entire business which it undertakes within the Community ; in such case, account shall be taken of the premiums or contributions and claims pertaining to the business effected by all the agencies or branches established within the Community; (b) That it be dispensed from lodging the deposit required under Article 23 (2) (e), in such States also; (c) That the assets representing the guarantee fund be kept in any one of the Member States in which it carries out business. 2.
Article 27 The provisions of Articles 19 and 20 shall also apply in relation to agencies and branches of undertakings to which this Title applies.
Article 28 In the case of a withdrawal of authorization by the authority referred to in Article 26 (2), this authority shall notify the authorities of the other Member States where the undertaking operates and the latter supervisory authorities shall take the appropriate measures.
Article 29 The Community may, by means of agreements concluded pursuant to the Treaty with one or more third countries, agree to the application of provisions different to those provided for in this Title, for the purpose of ensuring, under conditions of reciprocity, adequate protection for insured persons in the Member States.
Title IV - Transitional and other provisions Article 30 1.
Member States shall allow undertakings referred to in Title II which at the entry into force of the implementing measures to this Directive provide insurance in their territories in one or more of the classes referred to in Article 1 a period of five years, commencing with the date of notification of this Directive, in order to comply with the requirements of Articles 16 and 17. 2.
An undertaking having a structure different from any of those listed in Article 8 may continue, for a period of three years from the notification of the Directive, to carry on their present business in the legal form in which they are constituted at the time of such notification.
At the request of undertakings which comply with the requirements of Articles 15, 16 and 17, Member States shall cease to apply restrictive measures such as those relating to mortgages, deposits and securities established under present regulations.
Title V - Final provisions Article 33 The Commission and the competent authorities of the Member States shall collaborate closely for the purpose of facilitating the supervision of direct insurance within the Community and of examining any difficulties which may arise in the application of this Directive.
The Commission shall, as and when necessary, submit interim reports to the Council before the end of the transitional period provided for in Article 30 (1).
Article 36 Upon notification of this Directive, Member States shall ensure that the texts of the main provisions of a legislative, regulatory or administrative nature which they adopt in the field covered by this Directive are communicated to the Commission.
Article 37 The Annex shall form an integral part of this Directive.
Article 38 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Accident (including industrial injury and occupational diseases) - fixed pecuniary benefits - benefits in the nature of indemnity - combinations of the two - injury to passengers 2.
Sickness - fixed pecuniary benefits - benefits in the nature of indemnity - combinations of the two 3.
Fire and natural forces All damage to or loss of property (other than property included in classes 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7) due to - fire - explosion - storm - natural forces other than storm - nuclear energy - land subsidence 9.
Credit - insolvency (general) - export credit - instalment credit - mortgages - agricultural credit 15.
Suretyship - suretyship (direct) - suretyship (indirect) 16.
Miscellaneous financial loss - employment risks - insufficiency of income (general) - bad weather - loss of benefits - continuing general expenses - unforeseen trading expenses - loss of market value - loss of rent or revenue - indirect trading losses other than those mentioned above - other financial loss (non-trading) - other forms of financial loss 17.
