This Directive shall not apply to mutual associations which fulfil all the following conditions: (a) the articles of association must contain provisions for calling up additional contributions or reducing their benefits; (b) their business does not cover liability risks unless these constitute ancillary cover within the meaning of point C of the Annex or credit and suretyship risks; (c) the annual contribution income for the activities covered by this Directive must not exceed EUR 5 million; and (d) at least half of the contribution income from the activities covered by this Directive must come from persons who are members of the mutual association.
Nevertheless, the provisions of this Article shall not prevent a mutual insurance undertaking from applying, or continuing, to be licensed under this Directive%quot%; 2.
This adjustment shall be made for all risks listed in point A of the Annex, except for risks listed under classes 1 and 2.
For classes other than 1 and 2, no adjustment need be made in respect of the discounting of annuities included in technical provisions. 3.
The available solvency margin may also consist of: (a) cumulative preferential share capital and subordinated loan capital up to 50 % of the lesser of the available solvency margin and the required solvency margin, no more than 25 % of which shall consist of subordinated loans with a fixed maturity, or fixed-term cumulative preferential share capital, provided in the event of the bankruptcy or liquidation of the insurance undertaking, binding agreements exist under which the subordinated loan capital or preferential share capital ranks after the claims of all other creditors and is not to be repaid until all other debts outstanding at the time have been settled.
Subject to Article 17, the amount of the required solvency margin shall be equal to the higher of the two results as set out in paragraphs 3 and 4. 3.
Premiums or contributions in respect of the classes 11, 12 and 13 listed in point A of the Annex shall be increased by 50 %.
The amount so obtained shall be divided into two portions, the first portion extending up to EUR 50 million, the second comprising the excess; 18 % and 16 % of these portions respectively shall be calculated and added together.
The sum so obtained shall be multiplied by the ratio existing in respect of the sum of the last three financial years between the amount of claims remaining to be borne by the undertaking after deduction of amounts recoverable under reinsurance and the gross amount of claims; this ratio may in no case be less than 50 %.
With the approval of the competent authorities, statistical methods may be used to allocate the premiums or contributions in respect of the classes 11, 12 and 13. 4.
The claims basis shall be calculated, as follows, using in respect of the classes 11, 12 and 13 listed in point A of the Annex, claims, provisions and recoveries increased by 50 %.
If the period of reference established in paragraph 1 equals seven years, the amount of provisions for claims outstanding established at the commencement of the sixth financial year preceding the last financial year for which there are accounts shall be deducted.
One-third, or one-seventh, of the amount so obtained, according to the period of reference established in paragraph 1, shall be divided into two portions, the first extending up to EUR 35 million and the second comprising the excess; 26 % and 23 % of these portions respectively shall be calculated and added together.
The sum so obtained shall be multiplied by the ratio existing in respect of the sum of the last three financial years between the amount of claims remaining to be borne by the undertaking after deduction of amounts recoverable under reinsurance and the gross amount of claims; this ratio may in no case be less than 50 %.
With the approval of the competent authorities, statistical methods may be used to allocate the claims, provisions and recoveries in respect of the classes 11, 12 and 13.
In the case of the risks listed under class 18 in point A of the Annex, the amount of claims paid used to calculate the claims basis shall be the costs borne by the insurance undertaking in respect of assistance given.
If the required solvency margin as calculated in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 is lower than the required solvency margin of the year before, the required solvency margin shall be at least equal to the required solvency margin of the year before multiplied by the ratio of the amount of the technical provisions for claims outstanding at the end of the last financial year and the amount of the technical provisions for claims outstanding at the beginning of the last financial year.
The guarantee fund may not be less than EUR 2 million.
Where, however, all or some of the risks included in one of the classes 10 to 15 listed in point A of the Annex are covered, it shall be EUR 3 million.
If the percentage change since the last adaptation is less than 5 %, no adaptation shall take place. 2.
Member States may allow any undertakings referred to in paragraph 1, which upon the expiry of the five-year period have not fully established the required solvency margin, a further period not exceeding two years in which to do so provided that such undertakings have, in accordance with Article 20 of Directive 73/239/EEC, submitted for the approval of the competent authorities the measures which they propose to take for such purpose.
Member States shall provide that the measures referred to in paragraph 1 shall first apply to the supervision of accounts for financial years beginning on 1 January 2004 or during that calendar year. 3.
Article 4 Entry into force This Directive shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Article 5 Addressees This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 5 March 2002.
Cox For the Council The President R.
