The requirements laid down in paragraph 1 B shall not apply to fresh poultrymeat, whether or not packed, when the cutting or boning operations are carried out in the premises where the meat is sold or used or in adjacent premises for the purpose of supplying the final consumer directly, otherwise than by itinerant sale, sale by mail order or sale on a market.%quot% Article 4 The following Article shall be substituted for Article 4: %quot%Article 4 1.
When carrying out ante mortem and post mortem inspections, health control of cut meat as provided for in Chapter IX of Annex I, and supervising the hygiene conditions to be satisfied by establishment pursuant to Chapters III and V of Annex I, the official veterinarian may be helped by assistants working under his supervision and responsibility. 2.
Assistants shall help the official veterinarian in carrying out the following operations only: - supervising application of the hygiene rules laid down in Chapters III and V of Annex I, - checking that at the time of the ante mortem health inspection none of the symptoms mentioned in No 16 of Chapter IV of Annex I is present, - checking that at the time of the post mortem health inspection the conditions listed in No 32 of Chapter VII of Annex I are not present, - the health control of cut meat as provided for in Chapter IX of Annex I, - the supervision of transport vehicles or containers and loading conditions as provided for in No 53 of Chapter XIV.%quot% Article 5 The following Article shall be substituted for Article 5: %quot%Article 5 1.
An establishment may be approved by a Member State only where the provisions of this Directive are met in each individual case, in particular as follows: (a) for slaughterhouses : Chapters I and III of Annex I; (b) for cutting premises : Chapters II and III of Annex I.
If a Member State considers that the conditions for approval are not, or are no longer, satisfied in an establishment in another Member State it shall inform the Commission and the competent central authority of that State.
The Commission, acting on proposals from the Member States, shall appoint the experts in the Member States who shall be responsible for these checks ; they must be nationals of a Member State other than that in which the check is being carried out and, in the case provided for in Article 5 (3) and (4), other than those involved in that dispute.
Article 10 The following Article shall be inserted: %quot%Article 12a 1.
Within the Committee, the votes of Member States shall be weighted as provided in Article 148 (2) of the Treaty.
The Council shall adopt the measures by a qualified majority.
If, within three months from the date on which the proposal was submitted to it the Council has not adopted any measures, the Commission shall adopt the proposed measures and apply them immediately save where the Council has decided by a simple majority against them.%quot% Article 11 The following Article shall be substituted for Article 14: %quot%Article 14 1.
It shall remain subject to the national provisions of each Member State as regards intra-Community trade.%quot% Article 13 The following Articles shall be inserted: %quot%Article 15a Acting unanimously on a proposal from the Commission, the Council shall determine, before 31 December 1976, provisions applying to fresh meat which has been minced, ground or similarly chopped ; to this end, the Commission shall submit a proposal to the Council before 31 July 1976.
Article 15b Acting unanimously on a proposal from the Commission, the Council shall determine before 1 January 1978 the temperature to be observed during cutting, boning and packaging, the latter operation being as prescribed in Nos 47 and 48 of Chapter XIII of Annex I, without prejudice to the provisions laid down in No 37, second and third subparagraphs, of Chapter VIII of Annex I.%quot% Article 14 Article 16 shall be amended as follows: (a) The words %quot%and Article 16a%quot% shall be inserted after the phrase %quot%Without prejudice to Article 14%quot%; (b) In subparagraph (b), the words %quot%on 1 January 1977%quot% shall be substituted for %quot%within a maximum of five years following notification of the Directive%quot%.
Member States shall forthwith forward to the Commission the list of slaughterhouses and cutting premises granted a derogation, together with any amendments to the regulations governing such slaughterhouses and cutting premises. (b) The annual medical examination provided for in No 12 of Annex I, Chapter III, shall be obligatory only from a date to be determined by the Council, acting unanimously on a proposal from the Commission, before 15 February 1980; As regards the supervision of cutting premises and storage, the intervention of an official veterinarian, as provided for by this Directive, shall be obligatory only from a date to be determined by the Council, acting unanimously on a proposal from the Commission.
Where any of the derogation clauses in this paragraph are invoked, use of the health marking provided for in Annex I, Chapter X shall be prohibited.%quot% Article 16 The following shall be substituted for Annex I: %quot%ANNEX I CHAPTER I HYGIENE REQUIREMENTS FOR SLAUGHTERHOUSES 1.
CHAPTER II HYGIENE REQUIREMENTS FOR CUTTING PREMISES 2.
For cleaning instruments, the temperature of the water must be not less than 82 ºC; (r) equipment meeting hygiene requirements for handling meat and storing meat containers in such a way that neither the meat nor the containers come into direct contact with the ground; (s) proper equipment for protection against pests such as insects, rodents, etc; (t) instruments and working equipment such as cutting tables, tables with detachable cutting surfaces, containers, conveyor belts and saws of non-corrodible material not liable to taint meat and easy to clean and disinfect ; the use of wood in particular is forbidden.
CHAPTER IV %quot%ANTE MORTEM%quot% HEALTH INSPECTION 13.
Poultry for slaughter must undergo ante mortem inspection within 24 hours of arrival at the slaughterhouse.
The inspection must be repeated immediately before slaughter if more than 24 hours have elapsed since ante mortem inspection. 14.
Ante mortem inspection may be restricted to detecting injuries received in transport if the poultry has been inspected at the farm of origin within the last 24 hours and found to be healthy.
The poultry referred to in Nos 16, 17 or 18 must be slaughtered separately and after slaughter of all other poultry.
CHAPTER V SLAUGHTER HYGIENE REQUIREMENTS 20.
Detained meat declared unfit for human consumption in accordance with No 32 or not allowed for human consumption in accordance with No 33, feathers and waste must be removed as soon as possible to the rooms, spaces or containers provided for in No 1 (g), (h) and (i) and must be so handled that contamination is kept to a minimum. 28.
CHAPTER VI %quot%POST MORTEM%quot% HEALTH INSPECTION 29.
CHAPTER VIII PROVISIONS CONCERNING MEAT INTENDED FOR CUTTING 34.
CHAPTER IX HEALTH CONTROL OF CUT MEAT 41.
CHAPTER X HEALTH MARKING 43.
The material used for marking must meet all hygiene requirements and the information referred to in paragraph 1 shall appear on it in perfectly legible form. 3. (a) The health marking referred to in paragraph 1 (a) must be made: - on or visibly beneath wrappers or other packaging of individually packed carcases, - on non-individually packed carcases by apposition of a seal or any other mark approved in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 12a, - on or visibly beneath wrappers or other packaging of parts of carcases or offal packed in small quantities; (b) The health marking referred to in paragraph 1 (b) must be made on large packages containing carcases, parts of carcases or offal marked in accordance with subparagraph (a). 4.
CHAPTER XI HEALTH CERTIFICATE 45.
CHAPTER XII STORAGE 46.
CHAPTER XIV TRANSPORT 49.
Fresh poultrymeat must be transported in vehicles or containers designed and equipped in such manner that the temperature specified in Chapter XII is maintained throughout transportation. 50.
The official veterinarian shall ensure before loading that transport vehicles or containers and loading conditions meet the hygiene requirements of this Chapter.%quot% Article 17 The following shall be substituted for Annex II: %quot%ANNEX II REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO ASSISTANTS 1.
Article 20 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
