Article 3 This Decision shall take effect on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Article 4 This Decision is addressed to the Member States.
Papandreou (1) See page 22 of this Official Journal. (2) OJ C 29, 30.1.2001, p. 254. (3) OJ C 87, 11.4.2002, p. 19.
These guidelines include the call for proposals for the programme described in point 3.1 and the scientific/technical and socioeconomic priorities described in Appendices B and C, which may be amended by the Commission in accordance with the procedure described in point 2.1. 1.4.
The following committee and groups shall be established to assist the Commission: (a) the Coal and Steel Committee described in point 2.1; (b) the Coal and Steel Advisory Groups described in point 2.2; (c) the Coal and Steel Technical Groups described in point 2.3. 2.1.
The Coal and Steel Committee 2.1.1.
The following matters shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in point 2.1.1: (a) the allocation of funds to individual projects, in accordance with point 3.3(3); (b) the drawing-up of terms of reference for the monitoring and assessment of the programme referred to in point 4; (c) any amendment of Appendices B and C to these guidelines; (d) any other issue relating to the programme. 2.1.5.
The Coal and Steel Advisory Groups The Coal and Steel Advisory Groups (hereinafter referred to as %quot%the Advisory Groups%quot%) shall be independent technical advisory groups established to assist the Commission.
Each Advisory Group shall be composed of members, as referred to in point 2.2.1 and point 2.2.2, appointed by the Commission to serve in a personal capacity for a period of five years.
The Commission shall consider proposals for appointments received in the following ways: on a proposal by the Member States; on a proposal by the entities referred to in point 2.2.1 and point 2.2.2; in response to a call for applications for inclusion on a reserve list.
Call for proposals An open and continuous call for proposals is launched by this Decision, with 15 September of each year being the cut-off date for the submission of proposals for evaluation, starting with the year 2002.
The Commission shall, assisted by the technical groups referred to in point 2.3, monitor research projects and activities. 3.4.
Indirect costs All other expenses (overhead costs or overheads) which may arise in connection with the project and which are not specifically identified in the preceding categories shall be covered by a lump sum amounting to 30 % of the allowable staff costs as referred to in point 3.6.2. 3.7.
The priority areas are set out in points 1 to 4 below, the order of which does not represent priority as between these points. 1.
The priority areas are set out in points 1 to 3 below, the order of which does not represent priority as between these points. 1.
Research projects should address the following areas: - techniques for recycling obsolete steel from various sources and classification of steel scrap, - steel grades and design of assembled structures to facilitate the easy recovery of steel scrap and its reconversion into usable steels, - control and protection of the environment in and around the workplace, - restoration of steelworks sites, - improvement of working conditions and quality of life in the workplace, - ergonomic methods, - occupational health and safety, - reduction of exposure to occupational emissions.
