Furthermore, Member States should take measures to promote Community self-sufficiency in human blood or blood components and to encourage voluntary unpaid donations of blood and blood components. (5) In order to ensure that there is an equivalent level of safety and quality of blood components, whatever their intended purpose, technical requirements for the collection and testing of all blood and blood components including starting materials for medicinal products should be established by this Directive.
Article 152(4)(a) of the Treaty states that Member States cannot be prevented from maintaining or introducing more stringent protective measures as regards standards of quality and safety of blood and blood components. (23) Voluntary and unpaid blood donations are a factor which can contribute to high safety standards for blood and blood components and therefore to the protection of human health.
This Directive should therefore introduce additional safeguards to prevent any unauthorised changes to donation registries, or processing records, or the unauthorised disclosure of information. (26) The Commission should be empowered to establish technical requirements and adopt any necessary changes thereto and to the Annexes in order to take into account scientific and technical progress. (27) Setting of technical requirements and adaptation to progress should take into account the Council recommendation of 29 June 1998 on the suitability of blood and plasma donors and the screening of donated blood in the EC(13), relevant recommendations of the Council of Europe and the WHO as well as indications of relevant European institutions and organisations such as the monographs of the European Pharmacopoeia. (28) It is necessary that the best possible scientific advice is available to the Community in relation to the safety of blood and blood components, in particular as regards adapting the provisions of this Directive to scientific and technical progress. (29) Tests should be carried out in conformity with the latest scientific and technical procedures that reflect current best practice as defined by, and regularly reviewed and updated through, an appropriate expert consultation process.
Article 2 Scope 1.
Article 3 Definitions For the purposes of this Directive: (a) %quot%blood%quot% shall mean whole blood collected from a donor and processed either for transfusion or for further manufacturing; (b) %quot%blood component%quot% shall mean a therapeutic constituent of blood (red cells, white cells, platelets, plasma) that can be prepared by various methods; (c) %quot%blood product%quot% shall mean any therapeutic product derived from human blood or plasma; (d) %quot%autologous transfusion%quot% shall mean transfusion in which the donor and the recipient are the same person and in which pre-deposited blood and blood components are used; (e) %quot%blood establishment%quot% shall mean any structure or body that is responsible for any aspect of the collection and testing of human blood or blood components, whatever their intended purpose, and their processing, storage, and distribution when intended for transfusion.
Article 4 Implementation 1.
CHAPTER II OBLIGATIONS ON MEMBER STATES AUTHORITIES Article 5 Designation, authorisation, accreditation or licensing of blood establishments 1.
For the purpose of paragraph 1, the blood establishment shall submit the information listed in Annex I to the competent authority. 3.
The competent authority may suspend or revoke the designation, authorisation, accreditation or licence of a blood establishment if inspection or control measures demonstrate that the blood establishment does not comply with the requirements of this Directive.
Article 6 Hospital blood banks Articles 7, 10, 11(1), 12(1), 14, 15, 22 and 24 shall apply to hospital blood banks.
Article 8 Inspection and control measures 1.
CHAPTER III PROVISIONS FOR BLOOD ESTABLISHMENTS Article 9 Responsible person 1.
Blood establishments shall designate a person (responsible person), responsible for: - ensuring that every unit of blood or blood components has been collected and tested, whatever its intended purpose, and processed, stored, and distributed, when intended for transfusion, in compliance with the laws in force in the Member State, - providing information to the competent authority in the designation, authorisation, accreditation or licensing procedures as required in Article 5, - the implementation of the requirements of Articles 10, 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15 in the blood establishment. 2.
Article 10 Personnel Personnel directly involved in collection, testing, processing, storage, and distribution of human blood and blood components shall be qualified to perform those tasks and be provided with timely, relevant and regularly updated training.
CHAPTER IV QUALITY MANAGEMENT Article 11 Quality system for blood establishments 1.
Article 12 Documentation 1.
Member States shall take all necessary measures to ensure that blood establishments maintain records of the information required in Annexes II and IV and under Article 29(b), (c) and (d).
The competent authority shall keep records of the data received from the blood establishments according to Articles 5, 7, 8, 9 and 15.
CHAPTER V HAEMOVIGILANCE Article 14 Traceability 1.
With regard to blood and blood components imported from third countries, Member States shall ensure that the donor identification system to be implemented by blood establishments permits an equivalent level of traceability. 2.
Article 15 Notification of serious adverse events and reactions 1.
CHAPTER VI PROVISIONS FOR THE QUALITY AND SAFETY OF BLOOD AND BLOOD COMPONENTS Article 16 Provision of information to prospective donors Member States shall ensure that all prospective donors of blood or blood components in the Community are provided with information referred to in Article 29(b).
Article 17 Information required from donors Member States shall take all necessary measures to ensure that, upon agreement of a willingness to commence the donation of blood or blood components, all donors in the Community provide the information referred to in Article 29(c) to the blood establishment.
Article 18 Eligibility of donors 1.
Blood establishments shall ensure that there are evaluation procedures in place for all donors of blood and blood components and that the criteria for donation referred to in Article 29(d) are met. 2.
Article 19 Examination of donors An examination of the donor, including an interview, shall be carried out before any donation of blood or blood components.
Article 20 Voluntary and unpaid blood donation 1.
Article 21 Testing of donations Blood establishments shall ensure that each donation of blood and blood components is tested in conformity with requirements listed in Annex IV.
Article 22 Storage, transport and distribution conditions Blood establishments shall ensure that the storage, transport and distribution conditions of blood and blood components comply with the requirements referred to in Article 29(e).
Article 23 Quality and safety requirements for blood and blood components Blood establishments shall ensure that quality and safety requirements for blood and blood components meet the high standards in compliance with the requirements referred to in Article 29(f).
CHAPTER VIII EXCHANGE OF INFORMATION, REPORTS AND PENALTIES Article 25 Information exchange The Commission shall hold regular meetings with the competent authorities designated by the Member States, delegations of experts from blood establishments and other relevant parties to exchange information on the experience acquired with regard to the implementation of this Directive.
Article 26 Reports 1.
The Commission shall transmit to the European Parliament, the Council, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions, commencing on 1 July 2004 and every three years thereafter, a report on the implementation of the requirements in this Directive, and in particular those relating to inspection and control.
Article 27 Penalties Member States shall lay down the rules on penalties applicable to infringements of the national provisions adopted pursuant to this Directive and shall take all measures necessary to ensure that they are implemented.
CHAPTER IX COMMITTEES Article 28 Regulatory procedure 1.
Article 30 Consultation of scientific committee(s) The Commission may consult the relevant scientific committee(s) when establishing the technical requirements referred to in Article 29 and when adapting the technical requirements set out in Annexes I to IV to scientific and technical progress, in particular with a view to ensuring an equivalent level of quality and safety of blood and blood components used for transfusion and blood and blood components used as a starting material for the manufacture of medicinal products.
CHAPTER X FINAL PROVISIONS Article 31 Amendment of Directive 2001/83/EC Article 109 of Directive 2001/83/EC shall be replaced by the following: %quot%Article 109 For the collection and testing of human blood and human plasma, Directive 2002/98/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 January 2003 setting standards of quality and safety for the collection, testing, processing, storage and distribution of human blood and blood components and amending Directive 2001/83/EC(17) shall apply.%quot% Article 32 Transposition 1.
Member States shall bring into force the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with this Directive not later than 8 February 2005.
Article 33 Entry into force This Directive shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Article 34 Addressees This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 27 January 2003.
Cox For the Council The President G.
Drys (1) OJ C 154 E, 29.5.2001, p. 141 and OJ C 75 E, 26.3.2002, p. 104. (2) OJ C 221, 7.8.2001, p. 106. (3) OJ C 19, 22.1.2002, p. 6. (4) Opinion of the European Parliament of 6 September 2001 (OJ C 72 E, 21.3.2002, p. 289), Council Common Position of 14 February 2002 (OJ C 113 E, 14.5.2002, p. 93) and Decision of the European Parliament of 12 June 2002 (not yet published in the Official Journal).
ANNEX II REPORT OF THE BLOOD ESTABLISHMENT'S PRECEDING YEAR'S ACTIVITY This annual report will include: - total number of donors who give blood and blood components - total number of donations - an updated list of the hospital blood banks which it supplies - total number of whole donations not used - number of each component produced and distributed - incidence and prevalence of transfusion transmissible infectious markers in donors of blood and blood components - number of product recalls - number of serious adverse events and reactions reported.
ANNEX III LABELLING REQUIREMENTS The label on the component must contain the following information: - the official name of the component - the volume or weight or number of cells in the component (as appropriate) - the unique numeric or alphanumeric donation identification - the name of producing blood establishment - the ABO Group (not required for plasma intended only for fractionation) - the Rh D Group, either Rh D positive or Rh D negative (not required for plasma intended only for fractionation) - the date or time of expiry (as appropriate) - the temperature of storage - the name, composition and volume of anticoagulant and/or additive solution (if any).
ANNEX IV BASIC TESTING REQUIREMENTS FOR WHOLE BLOOD AND PLASMA DONATIONS The following tests must be performed for whole blood and apheresis donations, including autologous predeposit donations: - ABO Group (not required for plasma intended only for fractionation) - Rh D Group (not required for plasma intended only for fractionation) - testing for the following infections in the donors: - Hepatitis B (HBs-Ag) - Hepatitis C (Anti-HCV) - HIV 1/2 (Anti-HIV 1/2) Additional tests may be required for specific components or donors or epidemiological situations.
