2006/896/EC: Commission Decision of 26 October 2004 declaring a concentration compatible with the common market and the functioning of the EEA Agreement (Case No COMP/M.3436 — Continental/Phoenix) (notified under document number C(2004) 4219) (Text with EEA relevance) Commission Decision of 26 October 2004 declaring a concentration compatible with the common market and the functioning of the EEA Agreement (Case No COMP/M.3436 — Continental/Phoenix) (notified under document number C(2004) 4219) (Only the German text is authentic) (Text with EEA relevance) (2006/896/EC) On 26 October 2004 the Commission adopted a Decision in a merger case under Council Regulation (EEC) No 4064/89 of 21 December 1989 on the control of concentrations between undertakings [1] (the Merger Regulation) and in particular Article 8(2) of that Regulation.
THE TRANSACTION (1) On 12 May 2004, the Commission received a notification of a proposed concentration by which the undertaking Continental AG acquires within the meaning of Article 3(1)(b) of the Merger Regulation control of the whole of the undertaking Phoenix AG by way of a public bid announced on 26 April 2004. 1.
Both companies are based in Germany. 2.
The transaction was notified to the Commission on 12 May 2004; on 28 June, Continental acquired 75,51 % of the shares in Phoenix by way of a public bid.
The Commission has identified potential competition problems on four markets: - air springs for commercial vehicles; - air springs for passenger cars; - air springs for rail vehicles; - heavy steel cord conveyor belts. 1.
Air springs for passenger cars (9) Both, Continental and Phoenix/Vibracoustic, also produce air springs for passenger cars.
As a result, most car manufacturers prefer to source from the two European manufacturers (Phoenix/Vibracoustic or Conti). 3.
Air springs for rail vehicles (11) Both parties produce also suspension products for rail vehicles.
As a result, non-European producers play only a minor role in the European steel cord conveyor belts market.
Air springs for commercial vehicles (OEM/OES) (16) Continental and Phoenix would have a combined market share on this market of [55-65] %.
The main competitors are CF Gomma [10-15] %, Firestone [10-15] % and Goodyear [5-10] % . (17) Such a high market share would already in its own be indicative of a dominant position [5] of Continental.
A competitor told the Commission that especially Continental is using claimed IP rights aggressively to exclude competitors from competitions. (22) For all these reasons the Commission believes that the proposed takeover of Phoenix by Continental would lead to a dominant position of the merged entity in the market for air springs for commercial vehicles in Europe. 2.
On the other hand, the Commission has found some evidence that new players from outside Europe might enter the European market in the near future. (24) The question, whether the transaction would lead to a dominant position in the passenger car air springs market can be left open, since Continental has recently committed to divest Phoenix' activities in this market by selling Phoenix' share in the joint venture Vibracoustic to Freudenberg.
The acquisition of Phoenix' shares in Vibracoustic by Freudenberg removes the competition concerns in the field of air springs for passenger cars, since Phoenix is only active in the market for passenger car air springs through Vibracoustic. 3.
Paulstra, Schwab, Trelleborg or Toyo) would hold only minor shares of 5 % or less. (26) Despite these relatively high market shares, the Commission has come to the conclusion that no dominant position is to be expected in the market for railway air springs for two main reasons: Firstly, all competitors (including the parties) have to buy up to 70 % of the parts of the air spring system from their competitors who are either manufactures of the rubber bellow or the metal parts.
Given the long lifetime of trains (up to 30 years), customers will have enough time to qualify new suppliers. (27) Therefore, the Commission believes that the proposed takeover will not lead to the creation of a dominant position in the market for railway air springs. 4.
Remaining competitors are Sempertrans [5-15] %, Bridgestone [0-5] % and several small, mostly regional suppliers with market shares of less than [0-5] %. (29) The transaction thus reduces the number of main European competitors from four to three, the two remaining (Sempertrans and Bridgestone) being very small compared to the merged entity.
For some belt widths (%gt%2,4 m), the merged entity would even enjoy a de facto monopoly position in Europe. (30) For the above reasons the proposed takeover of Phoenix by Continental is likely to lead to a dominant position in the market for heavy steel conveyor belts in Europe. 5.
The divestiture also comprises the existing supply contracts with Phoenix' customers. (34) The complete divestiture of Phoenix' activities in the market for air springs for commercial vehicles (OES/OEM) eliminates the overlap in this market.
CONCLUSION (36) The Decision, therefore, reaches the conclusion that, on the basis of the commitments submitted by the Parties, the notified concentration will not lead to a dominant position of the Parties in the markets for air springs for commercial vehicles (OEM/OES), for passenger cars, for rail vehicles and for heavy steel cord conveyor belts, as a result of which effective competition would be significantly impeded in the common market or a substantial part thereof.
