A Member State which has granted EEC component type-approval shall take the measures required to verify, in so far as is necessary and if need be in cooperation with the competent authorities in the other Member States, that production models conform to the approved type.
Article 8 No Member State may refuse or prohibit the sale, registration, entry into service or use of any tractor on grounds relating to the roll-over protection structure and its tractor attachment if these bear the EEC component type-approval mark and if the requirements laid down in Annex VIII have been met.
Article 9 This Directive shall apply to tractors as defined in Article 1 of Directive 74/150/EEC having the following characteristics: - clearance beneath the rear axle of not more than 1 000 mm, - fixed or minimum adjustable track width of one of the driving axles of 1 150 mm or more, - possibility of being fitted with a multipoint coupling device for detachable tools and a draw bar, - mass of 800 kg or more, corresponding to the unladen weight of the tractor as defined in section 2.4 of Annex I to Directive 74/150/EEC, including the roll-over protection structure fitted in compliance with this Directive and tyres of the largest size recommended by the manufacturer.
Article 10 For the purposes of EEC type-approval, any tractor to which Article 9 refers must be fitted with a roll-over protection structure which satisfies the requirements laid down in Annexes I to IV.
However, the tractors defined in Article 9 of Directive 77/536/EEC may, for the purposes of EEC type-approval, be fitted with a roll-over protection structure which satisfies the requirements laid down in Annexes I to IV to that Directive.
Article 11 Any amendments necessary to adapt the requirements of the Annexes to this Directive to take account of technical progress shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 13 of Directive 74/150/EEC.
Article 13 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
The competent authority which has granted the original EEC component type-approval shall grant the extension if the approved protection structure and the type(s) of tractor for which the extension is requested comply with the following conditions: - the mass of the unballasted tractor, as defined in section 1.3 of Annex II, does not exceed by more than 5 % the reference mass used in the test, - the method of attachment and the tractor's components to which the attachments are made are identical, - any components such as mudguards and bonnet cowls which may provide support for the protection structure are identical, - the position and critical dimensions of the seat in the protection structure and the relative positions of the protection structure and the tractor shall be such that the zone of clearance would have remained within the protection of the deflected structure throughout all tests. 4.
a component type-approval mark conforming to the model in Annex VI; 4.1.3.
The stiff beam shall have a vertical face dimension of 150 mm. 2.1.2.2.
Provision must be made so that the load can be uniformly distributed normal to the direction of loading and along a beam having a length of one of the exact multiples of 50 between 250 and 700 mm. 2.1.2.3.
The edges of the beam in contact with the protection structure shall be curved with a maximum radius of 50 mm. 2.1.2.4.
Tractor mass : ± 20 kg. 2.3.4.
Total and permanent protection structure deflection shall be measured and noted for each stage of the test (see figure 5 of Annex IV). 3.1.5.
No part of the zone of clearance as described in section 3.2 of Annex III has been entered by - or has been outside the protection of the protection structure during the tests specified in sections 1.2, 1.3, 1.5, 1.6 and when appropriate 1.7 of Annex III.
D = deflection (mm) of structure at the point of and in line with the load application.
F = static load force (N) (newtons).
F-D = force-deflection diagram.
Eil 1 = energy input to be absorbed during longitudinal loading (J).
Fr = applied force at rear in the crushing test (N).
Ff = applied force at front in the crushing test (N).
E'i = strain energy absorbed by the frame after additional loading following a crack or tear (see figures 4b and 4c of Annex IV) (J).
E''i = strain energy absorbed by frame in overload test.
Area under F-D curve. (see figure 4c of Annex IV) (J).
The rate of deflection under loading shall not be greater than 5 mm/s.
As the load is applied, F and D shall be recorded simultaneously at deflection increments of 15 mm or less, to ensure accuracy.
If cracks or tears have occurred during loading, the overload test specified in 1.4 below shall be carried out before proceeding to the next loading in the sequence given in section 3.1.1.1 of Annex II. 1.2.
The length of the beam shall be not less than one third of the width of the protection structure (as previously described) and not more than 49 mm more than this minimum.
The longitudinal loading is applied from the rear or front as defined in section 3.1.1.1 of Annex II.
The beam shall be as long as practicable, but no more than 700 mm in length.
Stop the test whenever: (a) the strain energy absorbed by the protection structure is equal to or greater than the required energy input Eis (where Eis = 1 775 mt) ; or (b) the structure infringes the zone of clearance or leaves the zone of clearance unprotected. 1.4.
A force Fr = 20 mt shall be applied.
The force Fr shall be applied for a minimum of five seconds following the cessation of the visually detectable deflection.
A force Ff = 20 mt shall be applied.
The force Ff shall be applied for a minimum of five seconds following the cessation of the visually detectable deflection.
Stop the test if the structure infriges the zone of clearance or leaves the zone of clearance unprotected. 1.7.
The second longitudinal loading is applied from the rear or front as defined in section 3.1.1.1 of Annex II.
The length of the beam shall be not less than one third of the width of the protection structure (as previously described) and not more than 49 mm more than this minimum.
Stop the test whenever: (a) the strain energy absorbed by the structure is equal to or greater than the required energy input Eil2 (where Eil2 = 0 735 mt) ; or (b) the structure infringes the zone of clearance or leaves the zone of clearance unprotected. 2.
The zone of clearance is illustrated in figure 6 of Annex IV and is defined in relation to a vertical reference plane generally longitudinal to the tractor and passing through a seat reference point, described in section 2.3, and the centre of the steering wheel.
vertical planes 250 mm on either side of the reference plane extending upwards from the seat reference point for 300 mm; 2.2.2.
parallel planes extending from the upper edge of plane 2.2.1 to a maximum height of 900 mm above the seat reference point and inclined in such a way that the upper edge of the plane on the side from which the side loading is applied is at least 100 mm from the reference plane; 2.2.3.
a horizontal plane 900 mm above the seat reference point; 2.2.4.
an inclined plane perpendicular to the reference plane and including a point 900 mm directly above the seat reference point and the rearmost point of the seat backrest; 2.2.5.
a curvilinear surface, perpendicular to the reference plane, with a radius of 120 mm tangential to planes 2.2.3 and 2.2.4; 2.2.7.
a curvilinear surface, perpendicular to the reference plane, having a radius of 900 mm extending forward for 400 mm from and tangential to plane 2.2.3 at a point 150 mm forward of the seat reference point; 2.2.8.
an inclined plane perpendicular to the reference plane, joining surface 2.2.7 at its forward edge and passing 40 mm from the steering wheel.
a vertical plane, perpendicular to the reference plane, 40 mm forward of the steering wheel; 2.2.10.
a horizontal plane through the seat reference point. 2.3.
The reference point shall be established using the apparatus illustrated in figures 7 and 8 of Annex IV to simulate loading by a human occupant.
The reference point is defined as the point in the median longitudinal plane of the seat where the tangential plane of the lower backrest and a horizontal plane intersect.
This horizontal plane cuts the lower surface of the seat pan board 150 mm in front of the abovementioned tangent. 2.3.3.
where no definite tangent to the upper area is possible, the joint (B) is fixed at a height which is 230 mm above the seat reference point, if the lower part of the backrest board is vertical.
