Article 3 This Decision is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 22 December 2000.
Pierret (1) OJ L 44, 22.2.1993, p. 1. (2) OJ L 216, 8.8.1997, p. 77.
Description/Criteria: as at Appendix A. 3.
Transparency/Notification Procedures: as at Appendix B. 4.
on the timing of the first repayment of principal, repayment profile and maximum repayment term provided that the average life of the loan(1) supported does not exceed 5 years and 3 months, or 2.
Premium: - on the entry into force of this Framework Agreement, premium will be charged on the basis of current systems enhanced to make them consistent with the average weighted life concept as developed by the Working Group of Experts on Premia and Related Conditions, - as at 1 April 1999, premia shall be charged consistent with the Knaepen Package. 8.
Interest Rates: - for repayment terms up to and including 12 years, the normal CIRR regime shall apply, and - for repayment terms in excess of 12 years and up to 14 years, a surcharge of 20 basis points on the CIRR shall apply for all currencies; the level of the surcharge shall be reviewed at the end of the Trial Period. 9.
Implementation: This Framework Agreement shall enter into force on 1 September 1998, be expressed in language consistent with the Arrangement and issued as a TD/CONSENSUS document. (1) The concept of the average life of the loan is based on the time it takes to retire half the principal of a loan.
This concept is based solely on the repayment term of the loan and excludes the disbursement/drawdown period. (2) For the purpose of this Framework Agreement on Project Finance, Korea is excluded from the list of %quot%High Income OECD countries%quot% until 31 March 2002.
Appendix A Description and criteria 1.
Appendix B Notification procedures 1.
Participants are required to give 20 calendar days' notification before issuing any commitment where the intention is to allow flexibility under the proposed framework. 2.
years. - information on the interest rate charged and the surcharge over CIRR that will be applied, if option 2 in point 6 of the Annex is chosen, - information on any premium surcharge, and - an explanation of whether pre-commissioning interest has been capitalised. 3.
