Commission Directive 92/69/EEC of 31 July 1992 adapting to technical progress for the seventeenth time Council Directive 67/548/EEC on the approximation of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances COMMISSION DIRECTIVE 92/69/EEC of 31 July 1992 adapting to technical progress for the seventeenth time Council Directive 67/548/EEC on the approximation of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances THE COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, Having regard to Council Directive 67/548/EEC of 27 June 1967 on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances (1), as last amended by Directive 92/32/EEC (2), and in particular Articles 28 and 29 thereof, (1) OJ No 196, 16. 8. 1967, p. 1. (2) OJ No L 154, 5. 6. 1992, p. 1.
Whereas, in order to take account of technical developments it is necessary to revise the test methods to be found in the Annex to Commission Directive 84/449/EEC; Whereas, in order to take account of technical developments it is also necessary to revise the test method for the algal inhibition test currently to be found in the Annex to Commission Directive 88/302/EEC and on this occasion to transfer this test method to the Annex to Directive 84/449/EEC; Whereas it is appropriate to reduce to a minimum the number of animals used for experimental purposes, in accordance with Council Directive 86/609/EEC on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States regarding the protection of animals used for experimental purposes (7); (7) OJ No L 358, 18. 12. 1986, p. 1.
When Member States adopt these provisions these shall contain a reference to this Directive or shall be accompanied by such reference at the time of their official publication.
Done at Brussels, 31 July 1992.
For the Commission Karel VAN MIERT Member of the Commission ANNEX This Annex will be published in Official Journal of the European Communities No L 383 A.(See the notice published on the inside back cover of this Official Journal.) Annex to Commission Directive 92/69/EEC of 31 July 1992 adapting to technical progress for the seventeenth time Council Directive 67/548/EEC on the approximation of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances (1)CONTENTS INTRODUCTION PART A: METHODS FOR THE DETERMINATION OF PHYSICO-CHEMICAL PROPERTIES //5 A.1.
Relative density //21 A.4.
Vapour pressure //26 A.5.
Surface tension //47 A.6.
Water solubility //54 A.8.
Partition coefficient //63 A.9.
Flash-point //74 A.10.
Flammability (solids) //76 A.11.
Flammability (gases) //79 A.12.
Flammability (contact with water) //81 A.13.
Pyrophoric properties of solids and liquids //85 A.14.
Explosive properties //87 A.15.
Oxidizing properties (solids) //102 PART B: METHODS FOR THE DETERMINATION OF TOXICITY //107 General introduction//107 B.1.
Acute toxicity (skin irritation) //124 B.5.
Acute toxicity (eye irritation) //127 B.6.
Skin sensitization //131 B.7.
Repeated dose (28 days) toxicity (oral) //136 B.8.
Repeated dose (28 days) toxicity (inhalation) //140 B.9.
Repeated dose (28 days) toxicity (dermal) //144 B.10.
Mutagenicity (in vitro mammalian cytogenetic test) //148 B.11.
Mutagenicity (in vivo mammalian bone-marrow cytogenetic test, chromosomal analysis) //151 B.12.
Mutagenicity (micronucleus test) //154 B.13.
Mutagenicity (Escherichia coli - reverse mutation assay) //157 B.14.
Mutagenicity (Salmonella typhimurium - reverse mutation assay) //160 PART C: METHOD FOR THE DETERMINATION OF ECOTOXICITY //163 C.1.
Algal inhibition test //179 C.4.
Biodegradation: determination of the ready biodegradability //187 C.4-A: Dissolved organic carbon (DOC) die-away //194 C.4-B: Modified OECD screening test //197 C.4-C: Carbon dioxide (CO2) evolution //202 C.4-D: Manometric respirometry //207 C.4-E: Closed bottle //211 C.4-F: MITI (Ministry of International Trade and Industry - Japan) //216 Annexes //221 C.5.
Degradation: biochemical oxygen demand //226 C.6.
Degradation: chemical oxygen demand //227 C.7.
Degradation: abiotic degradation: hydrolysis as a function of pH //229 INTRODUCTION The Annex sets out test methods for the determination of physicochemical, toxicological and ecotoxicological properties listed in Annexes VII and VIII to Directive 79/831/EEC.
PART A: METHODS FOR THE DETERMINATION OF PHYSICO-CHEMICAL PROPERTIES A.1.
METHOD The majority of the methods described are based on the OECD Test Guideline (1).
The fundamental principles are given in references (2) and (3). 1.1.
INTRODUCTION The methods and devices described are to be applied for the determination of the melting temperature of substances, without any restriction in respect to their degree of purity.
Where, due to the particular properties of the substance, none of the above parameters can be conveniently measured, a pour point may be appropriate. 1.2.
DEFINITIONS AND UNITS The melting temperature is defined as the temperature at which the phase transition from solid to liquid state occurs at atmospheric pressure and this temperature ideally corresponds to the freezing temperature.
Some calibration substances are listed in the references (4). 1.4.
Melting temperature devices with liquid bath A small amount of the finely ground substance is placed in a capillary tube and packed tightly.
Melting temperature devices with metal block As described under 1.4.1.1., except that the capillary tube and the thermometer are situated in a heated metal block, and can be observed through holes in the block. 1.4.1.3.
This method is not suitable for some highly coloured substances. 1.4.2.
The temperature of the hot bar can range from 283 to 573 K with a special temperature-reading device including a runner with a pointer and tab designed for the specific bar.
In order to determine a melting temperature, the substance is laid, in a thin layer, directly on the surface of the hot bar.
Melt microscope Several microscope hot stages are in use for the determination of melting temperatures with very small quantities of material.
For very precise measurements on optically anisotropic substances, polarized light may be used. 1.4.2.3.
Method to determine the freezing temperature The sample is placed in a special test tube and placed in an apparatus for the determination of the freezing temperature.
During the determination of the melting temperature, the temperatures are recorded at the beginning of melting and at the final stage. 1.6.1.1.
Thermometer: Only those thermometers should be used which fulfill the requirements of the following or equivalent standards: ASTM E 1-71, DIN 12770, JIS K 8001.
To obtain a uniform packed sample, the capillary tube should be dropped from a height of approximately 700 mm through a glass tube vertically onto a watch glass.
The filled capillary tube is placed in the bath so that the middle part of the mercury bulb of the thermometer touches the capillary tube at the part where the sample is located.
Usually the capillary tube is introduced into the apparatus about 10 K below the melting temperature.
The bath liquid is heated so that the temperature rise is approximately 3 K/min.
Calculation: The calculatin of the melting temperature is as follows: T = TD + 0,00016 (TD TE)n where: T = corrected melting temperature in K TD = temperature reading of thermometer D in K TE = temperature reading of thermometer E in K n = number of graduations of mercury thread on thermometer D at emergent stem. 1.6.1.2.
Thermometer: See standards mentioned in 1.6.1.1.
Figure 3 %gt%START OF GRAPHIC%gt% %gt%END OF GRAPHIC%gt% 1.6.1.3.
Three capillary tubes are filled according to 1.6.1.1 and placed in the oven.
Thermal analysis 1.6.4.1.
Differential thermal analysis See Appendix. 1.6.4.2.
Differential scanning calorimetry See Appendix. 1.6.5.
The mean of at least two measurements which are in the range of the estimated accuracy (see tables) is reported as the melting temperature.
If the difference between the temperature at the beginning and at the final stage of melting is within the limits of the accuracy of the method, the temperature at the final stage of melting is taken as the melting temperature; otherwise the two temperatures are reported.
All information and remarks relevant for the interpretation of results have to be reported, especially with regard to impurities and physical state of the substance. 4.
REFERENCES (1) OECD, Paris, 1981, Test Guideline 102, Decision of the Council C(81) 30 final. (2) IUPAC, B.
Experimental thermodynamics, Butterworths, London 1975, vol.
I, Part I, Chapter VII. (4) IUPAC, Physicochemical measurements: Catalogue of reference materials from national laboratories, Pure and applied chemistry, 1976, vol. 48, 505-515.
Appendix For additional technical details, the following standards may be consulted for example. 1.
Capillary methods 1.1.
Kofler hot bar ANSI/ASTM D 3451-76 Standard recommended practices for testing polymeric powder coatings 2.2.
Melt microscope DIN 53736 Visuelle Bestimmung der Schmelztemperatur von teilkristallinen Kunststoffen. 2.3.
Meniscus method (polyamides) ISO 1218 (E) Plastics - polyamides - determination of 'melting point` ANSI/ASTM D 2133-66 Standard specification for acetal resin injection moulding and extrusion materials NF T 51-050 Résines de polyamides.
Methods for the determination of the freezing temperature BS 4633 Method for the determination of crystallizing point BS 4695 Method for Determination of Melting Point of petroleum wax (Cooling Curve) DIN 51421 Bestimmung des Gefrierpunktes von Flugkraftstoffen, Ottokraftstoffen und Motorenbenzolen ISO 2207 Cires de pétrole: détermination de la température de figeage DIN 53175 Bestimmung des Erstarrungspunktes von Fettsäuren NF T 60-114 Point de fusion des paraffines NF T 20-051 Méthode de détermination du point de cristallisation (point de congélation) ISO 1392 Method for the determination of the freezing point 4.
Thermal analysis 4.1.
Differential thermal analysis ASTM E 537-76 Standard method for assessing the thermal stability of chemicals by methods of differential thermal analysis ASTM E 473-85 Standard definitions of terms relating to thermal analysis ASTM E 472-86 Standard practice for reporting thermoanalytical data DIN 51005 Thermische Analyse, Begriffe 4.2.
Differential scanning calorimetry ASTM E 537-76 Standard method for assessing the thermal stability of chemicals by methods of differential thermal analysis ASTM E 473-85 Standard definitions of terms relating to thermal analysis ASTM E 472-86 Standard practice for reporting thermoanalytical data DIN 51005 Thermische Analyse, Begriffe 5.
Determination of the pour point NBN 52014 Echantillonnage et analyse des produits du pétrole: Point de trouble et point d'écoulement limite - Monsterneming en ontleding van aardolieproducten: Troebelingspunt en vloeipunt ASTM D 97-66 Standard test method for pour point of petroleum oils ISO 3016 Petroleum oils - Determination of pour point.
METHOD The majority of the methods described are based on the OECD Test Guideline (1).
The fundamental principles are given in references (2) and (3). 1.1.
INTRODUCTION The methods and devices described here can be applied to liquid and low melting substances, provided that these do not undergo chemical reaction below the boiling temperature (for example: auto-oxidation, rearrangement, degradation, etc.).
Conversions Pressure (units: kPa) 100 kPa = 1 bar = 0,1 MPa ('bar` is still permissible but not recommended) 133 Pa = 1 mm Hg = 1 Torr (the units 'mm Hg` and 'Torr` are not permitted). 1 atm = standard atmosphere = 101 325 Pa (the unit 'atm` is not permitted).
PRINCIPLE OF THE TEST METHOD Five methods for the determination of the boiling temperature (boiling range) are based on the measurement of the boiling temperature, two others are based on thermal analysis. 1.4.1.
A very simple apparatus is described in ASTM D 1120-72 (see Appendix).
Dynamic method This method involves the measurement of the vapour recondensation temperature by means of an appropriate thermometer in the reflux while boiling.
The pressure can be varied in this method. 1.4.3.
Distillation method for boiling temperature This method involves distillation of the liquid and measurement of the vapour recondensation temperature and determination of the amount of distillate. 1.4.4.
Photocell detection Following the principle according to Siwoloboff, automatic photo-electrical measurement is made using rising bubbles. 1.4.6.
When the sample undergoes a transition involving a change of enthalpy, that change is indicated by an endothermic departure (boiling) from the base line of the temperature record. 1.4.7.
Differential scanning calorimetry This technique records the difference in energy inputs into a substance and a reference material as a function of temperature, while the substance and reference material are subjected to the same controlled temperature programme.
QUALITY CRITERIA The applicability and accuracy of the different methods used for the determination of the boiling temperature/boiling range are listed in table 1. %gt%TABLE%gt% 1.6.
The boiling temperature observed with an applied pressure of 101,325 kPa is recorded. 1.6.3.
Method according to Siwoloboff The sample is heated in a melting temperature apparatus in a sample tube, with a diameter of approximately 5 mm (figure 1).
The level to which the test substance is added is such that the fused section of the capillary is below the surface of the liquid.
The sample tube containing the boiling capillary is fastened either to the thermometer with a rubber band or is fixed with a support from the side (see figure 2).
Figure 2 %gt%START OF GRAPHIC%gt% %gt%END OF GRAPHIC%gt% Principle according to Siwoloboff Figure 3 %gt%START OF GRAPHIC%gt% %gt%END OF GRAPHIC%gt% Modified principle The bath liquid is chosen according to boiling temperature.
Liquid paraffin may only be used up to 473 K.
The heating of the bath liquid should be adjusted to a temperature rise of 3 K/min at first.
In the modified principle (figure 3) the boiling temperature is determined in a melting temperature capillary.
The boiling temperature corresponds to the temperature at which the substance plug reaches the level of the surface of the bath liquid (c). 1.6.5.
Photocell detection The sample is heated in a capillary tube inside a heated metal block.
A light beam is directed, via suitable holes in the block, through the substance onto a precisely calibrated photocell.
When the boiling temperature is reached the number of bubbles increases greatly.
This method is especially useful because it allows determinations below room temperature down to 253,15 K ( 20 C) without any changes in the apparatus.
Thermal analysis 1.6.6.1.
Differential thermal analysis See Appendix. 1.6.6.2.
Differential scanning calorimetry See Appendix. 2.
For example, the DIN 53171 method mentions the following rough corrections for solvents included in paints: %gt%TABLE%gt% 3.
All information and remarks relevant for the interpretation of results have to be reported, especially with regard to impurities and physical state of the substance. 4.
REFERENCES (1) OECD, Paris, 1981, Test Guideline 103, Decision of the Council C (81) 30 final. (2) IUPAC, B.
Experimental thermodynamics, Butterworths, London 1975, volume II. (3) R.
Differential thermal analysis and differential scanning calorimetry ASTM E 537-76 Standard method for assessing the thermal stability of chemicals by methods of differential thermal analysis ASTM E 473-85 Standard definitions of terms relating to thermal analysis ASTM E 472-86 Standard practice for reporting thermoanalytical data DIN 51005 Thermische Analyse: Begriffe A.3 RELATIVE DENSITY 1.
METHOD The methods described are based on the OECD Test Guideline (1).
The fundamental principles are given in reference (2). 1.1.
INTRODUCTION The methods for determining relative density described are applicable to solid and to liquid substances, without any restriction in respect to their degree of purity.
The various methods to be used are listed in table 1. 1.2.
DEFINITIONS AND UNITS The relative density, D420, of solids or liquids is the ratio between the mass of a volume of substance to be examined, determined at 20 C, and the mass of the same volume of water, determined at 4 C.
The relative density has no dimension.
The density, ñ, is given, in SI units, in kg/m3. 1.3.
For solids, the measured density is only representative of the particular sample employed.
The density is calculated from the difference in weight between the full and empty pycnometer and its known volume. 1.4.3.
Air comparison pycnometer (for solids) The density of a solid in any form can be measured at room temperature with the gas comparison pycnometer.
The volume of a substance is measured in air or in an inert gas in a cylinder of variable calibrated volume.
For the calculation of density one mass measurement is taken after concluding the volume measurement. 1.4.4.
Oscillating densitimeter (5) (6) (7) The density of a liquid can be measured by an oscillating densitimeter.
Applicability of the different methods used for the determination of the relative density is listed in the table. 1.6.
DESCRIPTION OF THE METHODS The standards given as examples, which are to be consulted for additional technical details, are attached in the Appendix.
The tests have to be run at 20 C, and at least two measurements performed. 2.
DATA See standards. 3.
REPORTING The test report shall, if possible, include the following information: - method used, - precise specification of the substance (identity and impurities) and preliminary purification step, if any.
The relative density, D420, shall be reported as defined in 1.2, along with the physical state of the measured substance.
All information and remarks relevant for the interpretation of results have to be reported, especially with regard to impurities and physical state of the substance. %gt%TABLE%gt% 4.
REFERENCES (1) OECD, Paris, 1981, Test Guideline 109, Decision of the Council C(81) 30 final. (2) R.
I, Part 1. (3) IUPAC, Recommended reference materials for realization of physico-chemical properties, Pure and applied chemistry, 1976, vol. 48, 508. (4) Wagenbreth, H., Die Tauchkugel zur Bestimmung der Dichte von Flüssigkeiten, Technisches Messen tm, 1979, vol.11, 427-430. (5) Leopold, H., Die digitale Messung von Flüssigkeiten, Elektronik, 1970, vol. 19, 297-302. (6) Baumgarten, D., Füllmengenkontrolle bei vorgepackten Erzeugnissen - Verfahren zur Dichtebestimmung bei flüssigen Produkten und ihre praktische Anwendung, Die Pharmazeutische Industrie, 1975, vol. 37, 717 - 726. (7) Riemann, J., Der Einsatz der digitalen Dichtemessung im Brauereilaboratorium, Brauwissenschaft, 1976, vol. 9, 253-255.
Appendix For additional technical details, the following standards may be consulted for example: 1.
BUOYANCY METHODS 1.1.
Hydrometer DIN 12790, ISO 387 Hydrometer; general instructions DIN 12791 Part I: Density hydrometers; construction, adjustment and use Part II: Density hydrometers; standardized sizes, designation Part III: Use and test ISO 649-2 Laboratory glassware: Density hydrometers for general purpose NF T 20-050 Chemical products for industrial use - Determination of density of liquids - Areometric method DIN 12793 Laboratory glassware: range find hydrometers 1.2.
Immersed body method DIN 53217 Testing of paints, varnishes and similar coating materials; determination of density; immersed body method 2.
PYCNOMETER METHODS 2.1.
For liquid substances ISO 3507 Pycnometers ISO 758 Liquid chemical products; determination of density at 20 C DIN 12797 Gay-Lussac pycnometer (for non-volatile liquids which are not too viscous) DIN 12798 Lipkin pycnometer (for liquids with a kinematic viscosity of less than 100 7 10 6 m2 s 1 at 15 C) DIN 12800 Sprengel pycnometer (for liquids as DIN 12798) DIN 12801 Reischauer pycnometer (for liquids with a kinematic viscosity of less than 100 7 10 6 m2 s 1 at 20 C, applicable in particular also to hydrocarbons and aqueous solutions as well as to liquids with higher vapour pressure, approximately 1 bar at 90 C) DIN 12806 Hubbard pycnometer (for viscous liquids of all types which do not have too high a vapour pressure, in particular also for paints, varnishes and bitumen) DIN 12807 Bingham pycnometer (for liquids, as in DIN 12801) DIN 12808 Jaulmes pycnometer (in particular for ethanol- water mixture) DIN 12809 Pycnometer with ground-in thermometer and capillary side tube (for liquids which are not too viscous) DIN 53217 Testing of paints, varnishes and similar products; determination of density by pycnometer DIN 51757 Point 7: Testing of mineral oils and related materials; determination of density ASTM D 297 Section 15: Rubber products - chemical analysis ASTM D 2111 Method C: Halogenated organic compounds BS 4699 Method for determination of specific gravity and density of petroleum products (graduated bicapillary pycnometer method) BS 5903 Method for determination of relative density and density of petroleum products by the capillary- stoppered pycnometer method NF T 20-053 Chemical products for industrial use - Determination of density of solids in powder and liquids - Pyknometric method 2.2.
AIR COMPARISON PYCNOMETER DIN 55990 Part 3: Prüfung von Anstrichstoffen und ähnlichen Beschichtungsstoffen; Pulverlack; Bestimmung der Dichte DIN 53243 Anstrichstoffe; Chlorhaltige Polymere; Prüfung A.4.
METHOD The majority of the methods described are based on the OECD Test Guideline (1).
The fundamental principles are given in references (2) and (3). 1.1.
DESCRIPTION OF THE METHODS 1.6.1.
Dynamic measurement 1.6.1.1.
The necessary vacuum of between 102 Pa and approximately 105 Pa is produced with a vacuum pump.
A suitable valve is used to meter air or nitrogen for pressure regulation (measuring range approximately 102 to 105 Pa) and ventilation.
Measurement procedure The vapour pressure is measured by determining the boiling temperature of the sample at various specified pressures between roughly 103 and 105 Pa.
A steady temperature under constant pressure indicates that the boiling temperature has been reached.
Equilibrium is reached when a constant boiling temperature is recorded at constant pressure.
Static measurement 1.6.2.1.
The apparatus also includes instruments to set and measure the pressure.
Figures 2a and 2b illustrate the basic principles involved.
The sample chamber (figure 2a) is bounded on one side by a suitable high-vacuum valve.
A pressure gauge with a pressure indicator can be used instead of a U-tube (figure 2b).
This takes into account the fact that the density of the fluid in the U-tube alters if the temperature changes greatly.
The test substance must not dissolve noticeably in or react with the U-tube fluid.
Measurement procedure Before measuring, all components of the apparatus shown in figure 2 must be cleaned and dried thoroughly.
The temperature must be low enough to ensure that the air is sucked out, but - in the case of multiple component system - it must not alter the composition of the material.
For low-temperature measurements use a temperature-regulated bath connected to an ultra-cryomat.
If necessary, the degassing operation must be repeated several times.
Method 2b is similar but the vapour pressure is read off directly.
The temperature-dependence of vapour pressure is determined at suitably small intervals (approximately 5 to 10 measuring points in all) up to the desired maximum.
Low-temperature readings must be repeated as a check.
The cooling temperature is not low enough.
Isoteniscope A complete description of this method can be found in reference 7.
The isoteniscope is attached to a vacuum system and evacuated, then filled by nitrogen.
The filled isoteniscope is placed in an horizontal position so that the sample spreads out into a thin layer in the sample bulb and manometer section (U-part).
The pressure of the system is reduced to 133 Pa and the sample gently warmed until it just boils (removal of dissolved fixed gases).
The pressure is maintained as for degassing; the drawn-out tip of the sample bulb is heated with a small flame until sample vapour released expands sufficiently to displace part of the sample from the upper part of the bulb and manometer arm into the manometer section of the isoteniscope, creating a vapour-filled, nitrogen-free space.
The isoteniscope is then placed in a constant temperature bath, and the pressure of nitrogen is adjusted until its pressure equals that of the sample.
Then the solid to be investigated is placed in the bulb and is degassed at elevated temperature.
Effusion method: Vapour pressure balance 1.6.4.1.
The balance pan is approximately 30 mm in diameter.
The bar is immersed in a Dewar flask containing liquid nitrogen under the base plate or liquid nitrogen is circulated through the bar.
The refrigeration box is thus kept at approximately 120 C.
a highly sensitive 2-arm electronic microbalance (8) or a highly sensitive moving coil instrument (see OECD Test Guideline 104, Edition 12.05.81), - the base plate also incorporates electrical connections for thermocouples (or resistance thermometers) and heating coils, - a vacuum is produced in the vessel using a partial vacuum pump or high-vacuum pump (required vacuum approximately 1 to 2 7 10 3 Pa, obtained after 2 h pumping).
Measurement procedure The vessel is filled with the test substance and the lid is closed.
The final pressure before starting to take measurements should be approximately 10 4 Pa.
Once the required vacuum has been obtained, start the calibration series at the lowest temperature required.
Evaluation of the signals provides two pieces of information: 1.
In the apparatus described here the vapour pressure is determined directly from the momentum on the balance pan (it is not necessary to know the molecular weight for this (2)).
p = G2 p RT × 103M where G = evaporation rate (kg s 1 m 2) M = molar mass (g mol 1) T = temperature (K) R = universal molar gas constant (J mol 1 K 1) p = vapour pressure (Pa) After the necessary vacuum is reached, the series of measurements is commenced at the lowest desired measuring temperature.
For further measurements, the temperature is increased by small intervals until the maximum desired temperature value is reached.
The stainless steel foil of about 0,3 mm thickness has an effusion orifice of 0,2 to 1,0 mm diameter and is attached to the effusion cell by a threaded lid. 1.6.5.2.
In order to ensure that the results are not influenced by volatile impurities, the cell is reweighed at defined time intervals to check that the evaporation rate is constant over at least two such intervals of time.
The vapour pressure p in the effusion cell is given by: p =mKAtE2pRTM where p = vapour pressure (Pa) m = mass of the substance leaving the cell during time t (kg) t = time (s) A = area of the hole (m2) K = correction factor R = universal gas constant (J mol 1 K 1) T = temperature (K) M = molecular mass (kg mol 1) The correction factor K depends on the ratio of length to radius of the cylindrical orifice: ratio:0,10,20,61,02,0 K:0,9520,9090,7710,6720,514 The above equation may be written: p = EmtTM where = E1KA2pR and is the effusion cell constant.
This effusion cell constant E may be determined with reference substances (2,9), using the following equation: E =p(r)tmM(r)T where p(r) = vapour pressure of the reference substance (Pa) M(r) = molecular mass of the reference substance (kg.mol 1) 1.6.6.
Gas saturation method 1.6.6.1.
Nitrogen is usually sufficient for this purpose but occasionally other gases may be required (10).
Heat exchanger: For measurements at different temperatures it may be necessary to include a heat-exchanger in the assembly.
In order to lower the mass transport occurring by diffusion, a capillary may be placed after the saturator column (figure 6b). 1.6.6.2.
Measurement procedure Preparation of the saturator column: A solution of the test substance in a highly volatile solvent is added to a suitable amount of support.
After thermostating the sample, dry nitrogen is passed through the apparatus.
The time required for collecting the quantity of test substance that is necessary for the different methods of analysis is determined in preliminary runs or by estimates.
Before calculating the vapour pressure at a given temperature, preliminary runs are to be carried out to determine the maximum flow rate that will completely saturate the carrier gas with substance vapour.
This is guaranteed if the carrier gas is passed through the saturator sufficiently slowly so that a lower rate gives no greater calculated vapour pressure.
The quantity of substance transported by a known volume of carrier gas is determined. 1.6.6.3.
Calculation of vapour pressure Vapour pressure is calculated from the vapour density, W/V, through the equation: p =WV×RTM where: p = vapour pressure (Pa) W = mass of evaporated test substance (g) V = volume of saturated gas (m3) R = universal molar gas constant (J mol 1 K 1) T = temperature (K) M = molar mass of test substance (g mol 1) Measured volumes must be corrected for pressure and temperature differences between the flow meter and the thermostated saturator.
If the flow meter is located downstream from the vapour trap, corrections may be necessary to account for any vaporized trap ingredients (1). 1.6.7.
Apparatus The spinning rotor technique can be carried out using a spinning rotor viscosity gauge as shown in figure 8.
The sample container is placed in a thermostatted enclosure (regulated within 0,01 C), and all other parts of the set-up are kept at a higher temperature to prevent condensation.
Measurement procedure When the ball has reached a given rotational speed v(o) (usually about 400 revolutions per second), further energizing is stopped and deceleration takes place, due to gas friction.
The drop of rotational speed is measured as a function of time.
As the friction caused by the magnetic suspension is negligible as compared with the gas friction, the gas pressure p is given by : p =pcrrs10t×lnv(t)v(o) where c = average speed of the gas molecules r = radius of the ball ñ = mass density of the ball ó = coefficient of tangential momentum transfer (å =1 for an ideal spherical surface of the ball) t = time v(t) = rotational speed after time t v(o) = initial rotational speed This equation may also be written: p =pcrr10s×tn tn-1 tn × tn-1 where tn, tn 1 are the times required for a given number N of revolutions.
These time intervals tn and tn 1 succeed one another, and tn %gt% tn 1.
DATA The vapour pressure from any of the preceding methods should be determined for at least two temperatures.
Three or more are preferred in the range 0 to 50 C, in order to check the linearity of the vapour pressure curve. 3.
REPORTING The test report shall, if possible, include the following information : - method used, - precise specification of the substance (identity and impurities) and preliminary purification step, if any, - at least two vapour pressure and temperature values, preferably in the range 0 to 50 C, - all of the raw data, - a log p versus 1/T curve, - an estimate of the vapour pressure at 20 or 25 C.
If a transition (change of state, decomposition) is observed, the following information should be noted: - nature of the change, - temperature at which the change occurs at atmospheric pressure, - vapour pressure at 10 and 20 C below the transition temperature and 10 and 20 C above this temperature (unless the transition is from solid to gas).
All information and remarks relevant for the interpretation of results have to be reported, especially with regard to impurities and physical state of the substance. 4.
REFERENCES (1) OECD, Paris, 1981, Test Guideline 104, Decision of the Council C(81) 30 final. (2) Ambrose, D.
Chapter IX, Interscience Publ., New York, 1959, Vol.
Lpz., 1909, vol. 29, 1979; 1911, vol. 34, 593. (5) NF T 20-048 AFNOR (Sept. 85).
Chemical products for industrial use - Determination of vapour pressure of solids and liquids within range from 10 3 to 1 Pa - Vapour pressure balance method. (7) ASTM D 2879-86, Standard test method for vapour pressure- temperature relationship and initial decomposition temperature of liquids by isoteniscope. (8) G.
METHOD The methods described are based on the OECD Test Guideline (1).
The fundamental principles are given in reference (2). 1.1.
The following methods are applicable to most chemical substances, without any restriction in respect to their degree of purity.
The measurement of the surface tension by the ring tensiometer method is restricted to aqueous solutions with a dynamic viscosity of less than approximately 200 mPa s. 1.2.
DEFINITIONS AND UNITS The free surface enthalpy per unit of surface area is referred to as surface tension.
The surface tension is given as: N/m (SI unit) or mN/m (SI sub-unit)1 N/m = 103 dynes/cm1 mN/m = 1 dyne/cm in the obsolete cgs system 1.3.
PRINCIPLE OF THE METHODS The methods are based on the measurement of the maximum force which it is necessary to exert vertically, on a stirrup or a ring in contact with the surface of the liquid being examined placed in a measuring cup, in order to separate it from this surface, or on a plate, with an edge in contact with the surface, in order to draw up the film that has formed.
Substances which are soluble in water at least at a concentration of 1 mg/l are tested in aqueous solution at a single concentration. 1.5.
Substances with a water solubility lower than 1 mg/l need not be tested. 1.6.1.
Plate method See ISO 304 and NF T 73-060 (Surface active agents - determination of surface tension by drawing up liquid films). 1.6.2.
Stirrup method See ISO 304 and NF T 73-060 (Surface active agents - determination of surface tension by drawing up liquid films). 1.6.3.
Ring method See ISO 304 and NF T 73-060 (Surface active agents - determination of surface tension by drawing up liquid films). 1.6.4.
OECD harmonized ring method 1.6.4.1.
Mobile sample table The mobile sample table is used as a support for the temperature-controlled measurement vessel holding the liquid to be tested.
The error of the force measurement shall not exceed ± 10 6 N, corresponding to an error limit of ± 0,1 mg in a mass measurement.
In most cases, the measuring scale of commercially available tensiometers is calibrated in mN/m so that the surface tension can be read directly in mN/m with an accuracy of 0,1 mN/m. 1.6.4.1.3.
Cylindrical glass vessels having an inside diameter of not less than 45 mm are acceptable. 1.6.4.2.
Preparation of the apparatus 1.6.4.2.1.
If necessary they shall be washed with hot chromo-sulphuric acid and subsequently with syrupy phosphoric acid (83 to 98 % by weight of H3PO4), thoroughly rinsed in tap water and finally washed with double-distilled water until a neutral reaction is obtained and subsequently dried or rinsed with part of the sample liquid to be measured.
The calibration factor, Öa by which all the instrument readings must be multiplied, shall be detemined according to equation (1): fa = srsa(1) where: sr = mg2b (mN/m) m = mass of the rider (g) g = gravity acceleration (981 cm s 2 at sea level) b = mean circumference of the ring (cm) óa = reading of the tensiometer after placing the rider on the ring (mN/m). (b) Using water: procedure using pure water whose surface tension at, for instance, 23 C is equal to 72,3 mN/m.
The calibration factor, Öb, by which all the instrument readings shall be multiplied, shall be determined in accordance with the equation (2): fb = sosg(2) where: óo = value cited in the literature for the surface tension of water (mN/m) óg = measured value of the surface tension of the water (mN/m) both at the same temperature. 1.6.4.3.
The work shall therefore be carried out under a protective cover. 1.6.5.
Test conditions The measurement shall be made at approximately 20 C and shall be controlled to within ± 0,5 C. 1.6.6.
Subsequently, the table-top shall be lowered gradually and evenly (at a rate of approximately 0,5 cm/min) to detach the ring from the surface until the maximum force has been reached.
The liquid layer attached to the ring must not separate from the ring.
Readings shall be taken at the maximum force required to detach the ring from the liquid surface. 2.
DATA In order to calculate the surface tension, the value read in mN/m on the apparatus shall be first multiplied by the calibration factor Öa or Öb (depending on the calibration procedure used).
Alternatively, without the preceding calibration, the surface tension can be calculated according to the following formula: s = 4 p Rf × F where: F = the force measured on the dynamometer at the breakpoint of the film R = the radius of the ring f = the correction factor (1) 3.
TEST REPORT The test report shall, if possible, include the following information: - method used, - type of water or solution used, - precise specification of the substance (identity and impurities), - measurement results: surface tension (reading) stating both the individual readings and their arithmetic mean as well as the corrected mean (taking into consideration the equipment factor and the correction table), - concentration of the solution, - test temperature, - age of solution used; in particular the time between preparation and measurement of the solution, - description of time dependence of surface tension after transferring the solution to the measurement vessel, - all information and remarks relevant for the interpretation of results have to be reported, especially with regard to impurities and physical state of the substance. 3.2.
INTERPRETATION OF RESULTS Considering that distilled water has a surface tension of 72,75 mN/m at 20 C, substances showing a surface tension lower than 60 mN/m under the conditions of this method should be regarded as being surface-active materials. 4.
REFERENCES (1) OECD, Paris, 1981, Test Guideline 115, Decision of the Council C(81) 30 final. (2) R.
METHOD The methods described are based on the OECD Test Guideline (1). 1.1.
INTRODUCTION It is useful to have preliminary information on the structural formula, the vapour pressure, the dissociation constant and the hydrolysis (as a function of pH) of the substance to perform this test.
The two test methods described below cover the whole range of solubilities but are not applicable to volatile substances : - one which applies to essentially pure substances with low solubilities, ( 10 2 grams per litre), and which are stable in water, referred to as the 'flask method`.
DEFINITION AND UNITS The solubility in water of a substance is specified by the saturation mass concentration of the substance in water at a given temperature.
The SI unit is kg/m3 (grams per litre may also be used). 1.3.
They should primarily serve to check the performance of the method from time to time and to allow comparison with results from other methods. 1.4.
PRINCIPLE OF THE TEST METHOD The approximate amount of the sample and the time necessary to achieve the saturation mass concentration should be determined in a simple preliminary test. 1.4.1.
Flask method In this method, the substance (solids must be pulverized) is dissolved in water at a temperature somewhat above the test temperature.
When saturation is achieved the mixture is cooled and kept at the test temperature, stirring as long as necessary to reach equilibrium.
Subsequently, the mass concentration of the substance in the aqueous solution, which must not contain any undissolved particles, is determined by a suitable analytical method. 1.5.
QUALITY CRITERIA 1.5.1.
Repeatability For the column elution method, 3 % per C), two other temperatures at least 10 C above and below the initially chosen temperature should also be used.
In this case, the temperature control should be ± 0,1 C.
Preliminary test To approximately 0,1 g of the sample (solid substances must be pulverized) in a glass-stoppered 10 ml graduated cylinder, increasing volumes of distilled water at room temperature are added according to the steps shown in the table below: %gt%TABLE%gt% After each addition of the indicated amount of water, the mixture is shaken vigorously for 10 minutes and is visually checked for any undissolved parts of the sample.
If, after addition of 10 ml of water, the sample or parts of it remain undissolved, the experiment has to be repeated in a 100 ml measuring cylinder with larger volumes of water.
The approximate solubility is given in the table under that volume of added water in which complete dissolution of the sample occurs.
If the substance is still apparently insoluble, more than 24 h should be allowed (96 h maximum), or further dilution should be undertaken to ascertain whether the column elution or flask solubility method should be used. 1.6.3.
Support material, solvent and eluent The support material for the column elution method should be inert.
Note: Water directly from an organic ion exchanger must not be used. 1.6.3.2.
Loading of the support Approximately 600 mg of support material is weighed and transferred to a 50 ml round-bottom flask.
A suitable, weighed amount of test substance is dissolved in the chosen solvent.
The loading of support material may cause problems (erroneous results) if the test substance is deposited as an oil or a different crystal phase.
Test procedure: The elution of the substance from the support material can be carried out in one of two different ways: - recirculating pump (see figure 1), - levelling vessel (see figure 4). 1.6.3.3.
Column elution method with recirculating pump Apparatus A schematic arrangement of a typical system is presented in figure 1.
The first five bed volumes (minimum) are discarded to remove water-soluble impurities.
Following this, the recirculating pump is allowed to run until equilibration is established, as defined by five successive samples whose concentrations do not differ by more than ± 30 % in a random fashion.
Measurement procedure Those fractions from the middle eluate range where the concentrations are constant (± 30 %) in at least five consecutive fractions are used to determine the solubility in water.
After one day, one of the vessels is removed and re-equilibrated for 24 hours at the test temperature with occasional shaking.
The contents of the vessel are then centrifuged at the test temperature, and the concentration of test substance in the clear aqueous phase is determined by a suitable analytical method.
The other two flasks are treated similarly after initial equilibration at 30 C for two and three days, respectively.
If the concentration results from at least the last two vessels agree with the required reproducibility, the test is satisfactory.
The measurement procedure can also be performed without preincubation at 30 C.
In order to estimate the rate of establishment of the saturation equilibrium, samples are taken until the stirring time no longer influences the concentration of the test solution.
COLUMN ELUTION METHOD The mean value from at least five consecutive samples taken from the saturation plateau should be calculated for each run, as should the standard deviation.
The results should be given in units of mass per volume of solution.
The means calculated on two tests using different flows are compared and should have a repeatability of less than 30 %. 2.2.
FLASK METHOD The individual results should be given for each of the three flasks and those results deemed to be constant (repeatability of less than 15 %) should be averaged and given in units of mass per volume of solution.
This may require the reconversion of mass units to volume units, using the density when the solubility is very high (%gt% 100 grams per litre). 3.
COLUMN ELUTION METHOD The test report shall, if possible, include the following information: - the results of the preliminary test, - precise specification of the substance (identity and impurities), - the individual concentrations, flow rates and pH of each sample, - the means and standard deviations from at least five samples from the saturation plateau of each run, - the average of the two successive, acceptable runs, - the temperature of the water during the saturation process, - the method of analysis employed, - the nature of the support material employed, - loading of support material, - solvent used, - evidence of any chemical instability of the substance during the test and the method used, - all information relevant for the interpretation of the results, especially with regard to impurities and physical state of the substance. 3.2.
FLASK METHOD The test report shall, if possible, include the following information: - the results of the preliminary test, - precise specification of the substance (identity and impurities), - the individual analytical determinations and the average where more than one value was determined for each flask, - the pH of each sample, - the average of the value for the different flasks which were in agreement, - the test temperature, - the analytical method employed, - evidence of any chemical instability of the substance during the test and the method used, - all information relevant for the interpretation of the results, especially with regard to impurities and physical state of the substance. 4.
REFERENCES (1) OECD, Paris, 1981, Test Guideline 105, Decision of the Council C(81) 30 final. (2) NF T 20-045 (AFNOR) (Sept. 85).
METHOD The 'shake flask` method described is based on the OECD Test Guideline (1). 1.1.
INTRODUCTION It is useful to have preliminary information on structural formula, dissociation constant, water solubility, hydrolysis, n-octanol solubility and surface tension of the substance to perform this test.
Measurements should be made on ionizable substances only in their non-ionized form (free acid or free base) produced by the use of an appropriate buffer with a pH of at least one pH unit below (free acid) or above (free base) the pK.
The former is applicable when the log Pow value (see below for definitions) falls within the range 2 to 4 and the latter within the range 0 to 6.
Before carrying out either of the experimental procedures a preliminary estimate of the partition coefficient should first be obtained.
For these materials, a calculated value or an estimate based on individual n-octanol and water solubilities should be provided.
The HPLC method is less sensitive to the presence of impurities in the test compound than is the shake-flask method.
Nevertheless, in some cases impurities can make the interpretation of the results difficult because peak assignment becomes uncertain.
DEFINITION AND UNITS The partition coefficient (P) is defined as the ratio of the equilibrium concentrations (ci) of a dissolved substance in a two-phase system consisting of two largely immiscible solvents.
In the case n-octanol and water: Pow = cn-octanolcwater The partition coefficient (P) therefore is the quotient of two concentrations and is usually given in the form of its logarithm to base 10 (log P). 1.3.
Whenever possible, at least one reference compound should have a Pow above that of the test substance, and another a Pow below that of the test substance.
For log P values less than 4, the calibration can be based on data obtained by the shake-flask method.
For log P values greater than 4, the calibration can be based on validated literature values if these are in agreement with calculated values.
If data on the partition coefficients of structurally related compounds are not available, then a more general calibration, established with other reference compounds, may be used.
PRINCIPLE OF THE METHOD 1.4.1.
Shake-flask method In order to determine a partition coefficient, equilibrium between all interacting components of the system must be achieved, and the concentrations of the substances dissolved in the two phases must be determined.
The partition coefficient is deduced from the capacity factor k, given by the expression: k = tR t0t0 in which, tR = retention time of the test substance, and t0 = average time a solvent molecule needs to pass through the column (dead-time).
Quantitative analytical methods are not required and only the determination of elution times is necessary. 1.5.
QUALITY CRITERIA 1.5.1.
HPLC method In order to increase the confidence in the measurement, duplicate determinations must be made.
The values of log P derived from individual measurements should fall within a range of ± 0,1 log units. 1.5.2.
Typical correlations can be found in the literature (4)(5)(6)(7)(8).
Higher accuracy can usually be achieved when correlation plots are based on structurally-related reference compounds (9). 1.5.3.
Specificity Shake-flask method The Nernst Partition Law applies only at constant temperature, pressure and pH for dilute solutions.
Because of the multiple equilibria involved, this test method should not be applied to ionizable compounds without applying a correction.
DESCRIPTION OF THE METHOD 1.6.1.
Preliminary estimate of the partition coefficient The partition coefficient is estimated preferably by using a calculation method (see Appendix 1), or where appropriate, from the ratio of the solubilities of the test substance in the pure solvents (10). 1.6.2.
Shake-flask method 1.6.2.1.
Preparation n-Octanol: The determination of the partition coefficient should be carried out with high purity analytical grade reagent.
Water: water distilled or double distilled in glass or quartz apparatus should be employed.
Note: Water taken directly from an ion exchanger should not be used. 1.6.2.1.1.
Three tests are carried out.
The concentration of this stock solution should be precisely determined before it is employed in the determination of the partition coefficient.
Test conditions The test temperature should be kept constant (± 1 C) and lie in the range of 20 to 25 C. 1.6.2.3.
The test vessels should either be placed in a suitable shaker or shaken by hand.
When using a centrifuge tube, a recommended method is to rotate the tube quickly through 180 about its transverse axis so that any trapped air rises through the two phases.
This should be done in a laboratory centrifuge maintained at room temperature, or, if a non-temperature controlled centrifuge is used, the centrifuge tubes should be kept for equilibration at the test temperature for at least one hour before analysis. 1.6.2.4.
Analysis For the determination of the partition coefficient, it is necessary to determine the concentrations of the test substance in both phases.
The contents of the syringe may then be used as the aqueous sample.
The concentration in the two separated phases should preferably be determined by a substance-specific method.
Examples of analytical methods which may be appropriate are: - photometric methods, - gas chromatography, - high-performance liquid chromatography. 1.6.3.
HPLC method 1.6.3.1.
Typically a 3:1 (v/v) methanol-water mixture is satisfactory for eluting compounds of log P 6 within an hour, at a flow rate of 1 ml/min.
For compounds of high log P it may be necessary to shorten the elution time (and those of the reference compounds) by decreasing the polarity of the mobile phase or the column length.
Substances with very low solubility in n-octanol tend to give abnormally low log Pow values with the HPLC method; the peaks of such compounds sometimes accompany the solvent front.
HPLC measurements with silica-based stationary phases above pH 8 are not advisable since the use of an alkaline mobile phase may cause rapid deterioration in the performance of the column.
Solutes The reference compounds should be the purest available.
Test conditions The temperature during the measurements should not vary by more than ± 2 K. 1.6.3.2.
For calculating the dead time to by using a homologous series, a set of at least seven members of a homologous series is injected and the respective retention times are determined.
The dead time to is then given by: t0 = a / (1b) Calibration graph The next step is to construct a correlation plot of log k values versus log P for appropriate reference compounds.
In practice, a set of between 5 and 10 standard reference compounds whose log P is around the expected range are injected simultaneously and the retention times are determined, preferably on a recording integrator linked to the detection system.
The corresponding logarithms of the capacity factors, log k, are calculated and plotted as a function of the log P determined by the shake-flask method.
The retention time is determined (in duplicate), permitting the calculation of the capacity factor k.
If there is a suggestion of concentration dependency of the partition coefficient, this should be noted in the report, - the standard deviation of individual P values about their mean should be reported, - the mean P from all determinations should also be expressed as its logarithm (base 10), - the calculated theoretical Pow when this value has been determined or when the measured value is %gt% 104, - pH of water used and of the aqueous phase during the experiment, - if buffers are used, justification for the use of buffers in place of water, composition, concentration and pH of the buffers, pH of the aqueous phase before and after the experiment.
REFERENCES (1) OECD, Paris, 1981, Test Guideline 107, Decision of the Council C(81) 30 final. (2) C.
Leo, Substituent Constants for Correlation Analysis in Chemistry and Biology, John Wiley, New York 1979. (3) Log P and Parameter Database, A tool for the quantitative prediction of bioactivity (C.
Sundh-Nygärd, Chemosphere, 1980, vol. 80, 683. (5) H.
Nikaitani and E.J.
Schaper, Chemische Struktur und biologische Aktivität von Wirkstoffen, Verlag Chemie, Weinheim, New York 1979. (21) R.
Martin, Quantitative Drug Design, Marcel Dekker, New York, Basel 1978. (23) N.S.
Appendix 1 Calculation/estimation Methods INTRODUCTION A general introduction to calculation methods, data and examples are provided in the Handbook of Chemical Property Estimation Methods (a).
ESTIMATION METHOD Preliminary estimate of the partition coefficient The value of the partition coefficient can be estimated by the use of the solubilities of the test substance in the pure solvents: For this: Pestimate = saturation cn-octanolsaturation cwater CALCULATION METHODS Principle of the Calculation Methods All calculation methods are based on the formal fragmentation of the molecule into suitable substructures for which reliable log Pow-increments are known.
The log Pow of the whole molecule is then calculated as the sum of its corresponding fragment values plus the sum of correction terms for intramolecular interactions.
In the case of simple molecules with low molecular weight and one or two functional groups, a deviation of 0,1 to 0,3 log Pow units between the results of the different fragmentation methods and the measured value can be expected.
Rekker Method According to Rekker (g) the log Pow value is calculated as follows: log Pow = Siai fi + Sj (interaction terms) where fi represents the different molecular fragment constants and ai the frequency of their occurrence in the molecule under investigation.
The correction terms can be expressed as an integral multiple of one single constant Cm (so-called 'magic constant`).
The fragment constants fi and Cm were determined from a list of 1 054 experimental Pow values (825 compounds) using multiple regression analysis (c)(h).
The determination of the interaction terms is carried out according to set rules described in the literature (e)(h)(i).
Hansch-Leo Method According to Hansch and Leo (c), the log Pow value is calculated from: log Pow = Siai fi + Sj bj Fj where fi represents the different molecular fragment constants, Fj the correction terms and ai, bj the corresponding frequencies of occurrence.
The correction terms have been ordered into several different classes (a)(c).
Combined Method The calculation of log Pow of complex molecules can be considerably improved, if the molecule is dissected into larger substructures for which reliable log Pow values are available, either from tables (b)(c) or from one's own measurements.
Remarks i) The calculation methods can only be applied to partly- or fully-ionized compounds when it is possible to take the necessary correction factors into account.
ii) If intramolecular hydrogen bonds can be assumed, the corresponding correction terms (approx. + 0,6 to +1,0 log Pow units) have to be added (a).
iii) If several tautomeric forms are possible, the most likely form should be used as the basis of the calculation.
LITERATURE (a) W.J.
Rekker, The Hydrophobic Fragmental Constant, Pharmacochemistry Library, Elsevier, New York, 1977, vol. 1. (h) C.V.
Appendix 2 %gt%TABLE%gt% A.9.
INTRODUCTION It is useful to have preliminary information on the flammability of the substance before performing this test.
DEFINITIONS AND UNITS The flash-point is the lowest temperature, corrected to a pressure of 101,325 kPa, at which a liquid evolves vapours, under the conditions defined in the test method, in such an amount that a flammable vapour/air mixture is produced in the test vessel.
PRINCIPLE OF THE METHOD The substance is placed in a test vessel and heated or cooled to the test temperature according to the procedure described in the individual test method.
QUALITY CRITERIA 1.5.1.
Repeatability The repeatability varies according to flash-point range and the test method used; maximum 2 C. 1.5.2.
Sensitivity The sensitivity depends on the test method used. 1.5.3.
DESCRIPTION OF THE METHOD 1.6.1.
Performance of the test 1.6.3.1.
Equilibrium method See ISO 1516, ISO 3680, ISO 1523, ISO 3679. 1.6.3.2.
Non-equilibrium method Abel apparatus: See BS 2000 part 170, NF M07-011, NF T66-009.
Abel-Pensky apparatus: See EN 57, DIN 51755 part 1 (for temperatures from 5 to 65 C), DIN 51755 part 2 (for temperatures below 5 C), NF M07-036.
Tag apparatus: See ASTM D 56.
Pensky-Martens apparatus: See ISO 2719, EN 11, DIN 51758, ASTM D 93, BS 2000-34, NF M07-019.
To determine the flash-point of viscous liquids (paints, gums and similar) containing solvents, only apparatus and test methods suitable for determining the flash-point of viscous liquids may be used.
See ISO 3679, ISO 368O, ISO 1523, DIN 53213 part 1. 2.
REPORTING The test report shall, if possible, include the following information: - the precise specification of the substance (identification and impurities), - the method used should be stated as well as any possible deviations, - the results and any additional remarks relevant for the interpretation of results. 4.
INTRODUCTION It is useful to have preliminary information on potentially explosive properties of the substance before performing this test.
In order not to include all substances which can be ignited but only those which burn rapidly or those whose burning behaviour is in any way especially dangerous, only substances whose burning velocity exceeds a certain limiting value are considered to be highly flammable.
It can be especially dangerous if incandescence propagates through a metal powder because of the difficulties in extinguishing a fire.
DEFINITION AND UNITS Burning time expressed in seconds. 1.3.
PRINCIPLE OF THE METHOD The substance is formed into an unbroken strip or powder train about 250 mm long and a preliminary screening test performed to determine if, on ignition by a gas flame, propagation by burning with flame or smouldering occurs.
If propagation over 200 mm of the train occurs within a specified time then a full test programme to determine the burning rate is carried out. 1.5.
DESCRIPTION OF METHOD 1.6.1.
It should be noted whether combustion propagates along 200 mm of the train within the 4 minutes test period (or 40 minutes for metal powders).
If the substance does not ignite and propagate combustion either by burning with flame or smouldering along 200 mm of the powder train within the 4 minutes (or 40 minutes) test period, then the substance should not be considered as highly flammable and no further testing is required.
Burning rate test 1.6.2.1.
A non-combustible, non-porous and low heat-conducting base plate is placed on top of the mould, the apparatus inverted and the mould removed.
Paste-like substances are spread on a non-combustible, non-porous and low heat-conducting base plate in the form of a rope 250 mm in length with a cross section of about 1 cm2. 1.6.2.2.
Test conditions In the case of a moisture-sensitive substance, the test should be carried out as quickly as possible after its removal from the container. 1.6.2.3.
The air-speed should be sufficient to prevent fumes escaping into the laboratory and should not be varied during the test.
When the pile has burned a distance of 80 mm, the rate of burning over the next 100 mm is measured.
The test is performed six times, using a clean cool plate each time, unless a positive result is observed earlier. 2.
DATA The burning time from the preliminary screening test (1.6.1.) and the shortest burning time in up to six tests (1.6.2.3.) are relevant for evaluation. 3.
TEST REPORT The test report shall, if possible, include the following information: - the precise specification of the substance (identification and impurities), - a description of the substance to be tested, its physical state including moisture content, - results from the preliminary screening test and from the burning rate test if performed, - all additional remarks relevant to the interpretation of results. 3.2.
REFERENCES (1) NF T 20-042 (SEPT 85).
Appendix Figure %gt%START OF GRAPHIC%gt% %gt%END OF GRAPHIC%gt% Mould and accessories for the preparation of the pile (All dimensions in millimetres) A.11.
INTRODUCTION This method allows a determination of whether gases mixed with air at room temperature (circa 20 C) and atmospheric pressure are flammable and, if so, over what range of concentrations.
DEFINITION AND UNITS The range of flammability is the range of concentration between the lower and the upper explosion limits.
The lower and the upper explosion limits are those limits of concentration of the flammable gas in admixture with air at which propagation of a flame does not occur. 1.3.
PRINCIPLE OF THE METHOD The concentration of gas in air is increased step by step and the mixture is exposed at each stage to an electrical spark. 1.5.
DESCRIPTION OF THE METHOD 1.6.1.
Apparatus The test vessel is an upright glass cylinder having a minimum inner diameter of 50 mm and a minimum height of 300 mm.
An example of a suitable apparatus is described in reference (2). 1.6.2.
Test conditions The test must be performed at room temperature (circa 20 C). 1.6.3.
Performance of the test Using proportioning pumps, a known concentration of gas in air is introduced into the glass cylinder.
If the chemical structure of the gas indicates that it would be non-flammable and the composition of the stoichiometric mixture with air can be calculated, then only mixtures in the range from 10 % less than the stoichiometric composition to 10 % greater than this composition need be tested in 1 % steps. 2.
REPORTING The test report shall, if possible, include the following information: - the precise specification of the substance (identification and impurities), - a description, with dimensions, of the apparatus used - the temperature at which the test was performed, - the tested concentrations and the results obtained, - the result of the test: non-flammable gas or highly flammable gas, - if it is concluded that the gas is non-flammable then the concentration range over which it was tested in 1 % steps should be stated, - all information and remarks relevant to the interpretation of results have to be reported. 4.
REFERENCES (1) NF T 20-041 (SEPT 85).
Chem.-Ing.-Tech. 1984, vol 56, 2, 126-127.
DEFINITIONS AND UNITS Highly flammable: substances which, in contact with water or damp air, evolve highly flammable gases in dangerous quantities at a minimum rate of 1 litre/kg per hour. 1.3.
PRINCIPLE OF THE METHOD The substance is tested according to the step by step sequence described below; if ignition occurs at any step, no further testing is necessary.
Step 1 The test substance is placed in a trough containing distilled water at 20 C and it is noted whether or not the evolved gas ignites. 1.3.2.
Step 2 The test substance is placed on a filter paper floating on the surface of a dish containing distilled water at 20 C and it is noted whether or not the evolved gas ignites.
A few drops of water are added to the pile and it is noted whether or not the evolved gas ignites. 1.3.4.
Step 4 The test substance is mixed with distilled water at 20 C and the rate of evolution of gas is measured over a period of seven hours, at one-hour intervals.
If the rate of evolution is erratic, or is increasing, after seven hours, the measuring time should be extended to a maximum time of five days.
The test may be stopped if the rate at any time exceeds 1 litre/kg per hour. 1.4.
Step 1 1.6.1.1.
Test conditions The test is performed at room temperature (circa 20 C). 1.6.1.2.
Performance of the test A small quantity (approximately 2 mm diameter) of the test substance should be placed in a trough containing distilled water.
Step 2 1.6.2.1.
Apparatus A filter-paper is floated flat on the surface of distilled water in any suitable vessel, e.g.
Test conditions The test is performed at room temperature (circa 20 C). 1.6.2.3.
Performance of the test A small quantity of the test substance (approximately 2 mm diameter) is placed onto the centre of the filter-paper.
Step 3 1.6.3.1.
Test conditions The test is performed at room temperature (circa 20 C). 1.6.3.2.
Step 4 1.6.4.1.
Apparatus The apparatus is set up as shown in the figure. 1.6.4.2.
Test conditions Inspect the container of the test substance for any powder START OF GRAPHIC%gt% %gt%END OF GRAPHIC%gt% Apparatus A.13.
PYROPHORIC PROPERTIES OF SOLIDS AND LIQUIDS 1.
INTRODUCTION The test procedure is applicable to solid or liquid substances, which, in small amounts, will ignite spontaneously a short time after coming into contact with air at room temperature (circa 20 C).
The auto-flammability of liquids may also need to be tested using method A.15 Auto-ignition temperature (liquids and gases). 1.3.
PRINCIPLE OF THE METHOD The substance, whether solid or liquid, is added to an inert carrier and brought into contact with air at ambient temperature for a period of five minutes.
If liquid substances do not ignite then they are absorbed onto filter paper and exposed to air at ambient temperature (circa 20 C) for five minutes.
DESCRIPTION OF THE TEST METHOD 1.6.1.
Apparatus A porcelain cup of circa 10 cm diameter is filled with diatomaceous earth to a height of about 5 mm at room temperature (circa 20 C).
Performance of the Test a) Powdery Solids 1 to 2 cm3 of the powdery substance to be tested is poured from circa 1 m height onto a non-combustible surface and it is observed whether the substance ignites during dropping or within five minutes of settling.
The test is performed six times unless ignition occurs.
b) Liquids Circa 5 cm3 of the liquid to be tested is poured into the prepared porcelain cup and it is observed whether the substance ignites within five minutes.
If no ignition occurs in the six tests, perform the following tests: A 0,5 ml test sample is delivered from a syringe to an indented filter paper and it is observed whether ignition or charring of the filter paper occurs within five minutes of the liquid being added.
The test is performed three times unless ignition or charring occurs. 2.
INTRODUCTION The method provides a scheme of testing to determine whether a solid or a pasty substance presents a danger of explosion when submitted to the effect of a flame (thermal sensitivity), or to shock or friction (sensitivity to mechanical stimuli), and whether a liquid substance presents a danger of explosion when submitted to the effect of a flame or shock.
The method comprises three parts: (a) a test of thermal sensitivity (1); (b) a test of mechanical sensitivity with respect to shock (1); (c) a test of mechanical sensitivity with respect to friction (1).
The method is appropriate for determining whether a substance will present a danger of explosion (thermal and mechanical sensitivity) under the particular conditions specified in the directive.
DEFINITIONS AND UNITS Explosive: Substances which may explode under the effect of flame or which are sensitive to shock or friction in the specified apparatus (or are more mechanically sensitive than 1,3-dinitrobenzene in alternative apparatus). 1.3.
Perhydro-1,3,5-trinitro-1,3,5-triazine (RDX, hexogen, cyclonite - CAS 121-82-4), recrystallised from aqueous cyclohexanone, wet-sieved through a 250 ìm and retained on a 150 ìm sieve and dried at 103 ± 2 C (for 4 hours) for the second series of friction and shock tests. 1.4.
PRINCIPLE OF THE METHOD Preliminary tests are necessary to establish safe conditions for the performance of the three tests of sensitivity. 1.4.1.
Safety-in-handling tests (3) For safety reasons, before performing the main tests, very small samples (circa 10 mg) of the substance are subjected to heating without confinement in a gas flame, to shock in any convenient form of apparatus and to friction by the use of a mallet against an anvil or any form of friction machine.
DESCRIPTION OF METHOD 1.6.1.
Apparatus The apparatus consists of a non-reusable steel tube with its re-usable closing device (figure 1), installed in a heating and protective device.
For solids, the mass of material to be used in each test is determined using a two-stage dry run procedure.
A tared tube is filled with 9 cm3 of substance and the substance tamped with 80 N force applied to the total cross-section of the tube.
If the material is compressible then more is added and tamped until the tube is filled to 55 mm from the top.
The total mass used to fill the tube to the 55 mm level is determined and two further increments, each tamped with 80 N force, are added.
Material is then either added with tamping, or taken out, as required, to leave the tube filled to a level 15 mm from the top.
A second dry run is performed, starting with a tamped quantity of a third of the total mass found in the first dry run.
Two more of these increments are added with 80 N tamping and the level of the substance in the tube adjusted to 15 mm from the top by addition or subtraction of material as required.
Heating is provided by propane taken from an industrial cylinder, fitted with a pressure regulator (60 to 70 mbar), through a meter and evenly distributed (as indicated by visual observation of the flames from the burners) by a manifold to four burners.
For all apparatus, the heating rate must be checked periodically using tubes filled with dibutyl phthalate as indicated in figure 3. 1.6.1.3.
A test resulting in the fragmentation of the tube into three or more pieces, which in some cases may be connected to each other by narrow strips of metal as illustrated in figure 2, is evaluated as giving an explosion.
A series of three tests with a 6,0 mm diameter orifice plate is first performed and, if no explosions are obtained, a second series of three tests is performed with a 2,0 mm diameter orifice plate.
Mechanical sensitivity (shock) 1.6.2.1.
The steel anvil 100 mm (diameter) × 70 mm (height) is screwed to the top of a steel block 230 mm (length) × 250 mm (width) × 200 mm (height) with a cast base 450 mm (length) × 450 mm (width) × 60 mm (height).
The solid steel cylinders should be of 10 ( 0,003, 0,005) mm diameter and 10 mm height and have polished surfaces, rounded edges (radius of curvature 0,5 mm) and a hardness of HRC 58 to 65.
The hollow cylinder must have an external diameter of 16 mm, a polished bore of 10 (+0,005, +0,010) mm and a height of 13 mm.
The shock device is assembled on an intermediate anvil (26 mm diameter and 26 mm height) made of steel and centred by a ring with perforations to allow escape of fumes. 1.6.2.2.
Test conditions The sample volume should be 40 mm3, or a volume to suit any alternative apparatus.
Substances normally supplied as pastes should be tested in the dry state where possible or, in any case, following removal of the maximum possible amount of diluent.
Liquid substances are tested with a 1 mm gap between the upper and lower steel cylinders. 1.6.2.3.
Performance of the tests A series of six tests are performed dropping the 10 kg mass from 0,40 m (40 J).
Mechanical sensitivity (friction) 1.6.3.1.
The porcelain plate is held in a carriage which runs in two guides.
The porcelain peg may be loaded with, for example, 120 or 360 newtons.
The flat porcelain plates are made from white technical porcelain (roughness 9 to 32 ìm) and have the dimensions 25 mm (length) × 25 mm (width) × 5 mm (height).
The cylindrical porcelain peg is also made of white technical porcelain and is 15 mm long, has a diameter of 10 mm and roughened spherical end surfaces with a radius of curvature of 10 mm. 1.6.3.2.
Solid substances are tested in the dry state and prepared as follows: (a) powdered substances are sieved (sieve size 0,5 mm); all that has passed through the sieve is used for testing; (b) pressed, cast or otherwise condensed substances are broken into small pieces and sieved; the sieve fraction START OF GRAPHIC%gt% %gt%END OF GRAPHIC%gt% %gt%START OF GRAPHIC%gt% %gt%END OF GRAPHIC%gt% Figure 2 %gt%START OF GRAPHIC%gt% %gt%END OF GRAPHIC%gt% Thermal sensitivity test Examples of fragmentation Figure 3 %gt%START OF GRAPHIC%gt% %gt%END OF GRAPHIC%gt% Heating rate calibration for thermal sensitivity test Temperature/time curve obtained on heating dibutyl phthalate (27 cm3) in a closed (1,5 mm orifice plate) tube using a propane flow rate of 3,2 litre/minute.
The temperature is measured with a 1 mm diameter stainless steel sheathed chromel/alumel thermocouple, placed centrally 43 mm below the rim of the tube.
The heating rate between 135 C and 285 C should be between 185 and 215 K/minute.
Figure 4 %gt%START OF GRAPHIC%gt% %gt%END OF GRAPHIC%gt% %gt%START OF GRAPHIC%gt% %gt%END OF GRAPHIC%gt% Figure 4 Continued Fig. 4c Shock device for substances in powdered or paste-like form Fig. 4d Shock device for liquid substances (1) steel cylinders (2) guide ring for steel cylinders (3) locating ring with orifices (a) vertical section (b) plan (4) rubber ring (5) liquid substance (40 mm3) (6) space free from liquid %gt%START OF GRAPHIC%gt% %gt%END OF GRAPHIC%gt% Fig. 4e Hammer (drop mass of 5 kg) (1) suspension spigot (2) height marker (3) positioning groove (4) cylindrical striking head (5) rebound catch Figure 5 %gt%START OF GRAPHIC%gt% %gt%END OF GRAPHIC%gt% Friction sensitivity apparatus Fig. 5a Friction apparatus; elevation and plan view %gt%START OF GRAPHIC%gt% %gt%END OF GRAPHIC%gt% Fig. 5b Starting position of peg on sample %gt%START OF GRAPHIC%gt% %gt%END OF GRAPHIC%gt% A.15.
INTRODUCTION Explosive substances and substances which ignite spontaneously in contact with air at ambient temperature should not be submitted to this test.
The auto-ignition temperature is the lowest temperature at which the test substance will ignite when mixed with air under the conditions defined in the test method. 1.3.
REFERENCE SUBSTANCES Reference substances are cited in the standards (see 1.6.3).
They should primarily serve to check the performance of the method from time to time and to allow comparison with results from other methods. 1.4.
PRINCIPLE OF THE METHOD The method determines the minimum temperature of the inner surface of an enclosure that will result in ignition of a gas, vapour or liquid injected into the enclosure. 1.5.
DESCRIPTION OF THE METHOD 1.6.1.
Apparatus The apparatus is described in the method referred to in 1.6.3. 1.6.2.
Test conditions A sample of the test substance is tested according to the method referred to in 1.6.3. 1.6.3.
Performance of the test See IEC 79-4, DIN 51794, ASTM-E 659-78, BS 4056, NF T 20-037. 2.
REPORTING The test report shall, if possible, include the following information: - the precise specification of the substance (identification and impurities), - the quantity of sample used, atmospheric pressure, - the apparatus used, - the results of measurements (test temperatures, results concerning ignition, corresponding time-lags), - all additional remarks relevant to the interpretation of results. 4.
INTRODUCTION Explosive substances and substances which ignite spontaneously in contact with air at ambient temperature should not be submitted to this test.
The test procedure is useful as a preliminary screening test for solid substances.
In view of the complex nature of the ignition and combustion of solids, the self-ignition temperature determined according to this test method should be used for comparison purposes only. 1.2.
DEFINITIONS AND UNITS The self-ignition temperature as obtained by this method is the minimum ambient temperature expressed in C at which a certain volume of a substance will ignite under defined conditions. 1.3.
REFERENCE SUBSTANCE None. 1.4.
PRINCIPLE OF THE METHOD A certain volume of the substance under test is placed in an oven at room temperature; the temperature/time curve relating to conditions in the centre of the sample is recorded while the temperature of the oven is increased to 400 C, or to the melting point if lower, at a rate of 0,5 C/min.
For the purpose of this test, the temperature of the oven at which the sample temperature reaches 400 C by self-heating is called the self-ignition temperature. 1.5.
QUALITY CRITERIA None. 1.6.
DESCRIPTION OF THE METHOD 1.6.1.
Apparatus 1.6.1.1.
Thermocouples Suitable thermocouples. 1.6.1.4.
Recorder Any two-channel recorder calibrated from 0 to 600 C or corresponding voltage. 1.6.2.
Test conditions Substances are tested as received. 1.6.3.
The cube is then suspended in the centre of the oven at room temperature.
One thermocouple is placed at the centre of the cube and the other between the cube and the oven wall to record the oven temperature.
The temperatures of the oven and sample are continuously recorded while the temperature of the oven is increased to 400 C, or to the melting point if lower, at a rate of 0,5 C/min.
When the substance ignites the sample thermocouple will show a very sharp temperature rise above the oven temperature. 2.
DATA The temperature of the oven at which the sample temperature reaches 400 C by self-heating is relevant for evaluation (see figure 2). 3.
REPORTING The test report shall, if possible, include the following information: - a description of the substance to be tested, - the results of measurement including the temperature/time curve, - all additional remarks relevant for the interpretation of the results. 4.
REFERENCES (1) NF T 20-036 (September 85).
INTRODUCTION It is useful to have preliminary information on any potentially explosive properties of the substance before performing this test.
DEFINITION AND UNITS Burning time: reaction time, in seconds, taken for the reaction zone to travel along a pile, following the procedure described in 1.6.
Burning rate: expressed in millimetres per second.
Maximum burning rate: the highest value of the burning rates obtained with mixtures containing 10 to 90 % by weight of oxidizer. 1.3.
The reference mixture is that mixture of barium nitrate with powdered cellulose, prepared according to 1.6, which has the maximum burning rate (usually a mixture with 60 % barium nitrate by weight). 1.4.
The maximum burning rate determined is compared with the maximum burning rate of the reference mixture. 1.5.
QUALITY CRITERIA If required, any method of grinding and mixing is valid provided that the difference in the maximum rate of burning in the six separate tests differs from the arithmetic mean value by no more than 10 %. 1.6.
DESCRIPTION OF THE METHOD 1.6.1.
Preparation 1.6.1.1.
INTRODUCTION See General Introduction.
Specific definitions for the fixed dose procedure in the determination of acute oral toxicity - Evident toxicity refers to toxic effects seen following administration of a test substance, which are of a severity such that administration at the next higher dose level could result in mortality. - Discriminating dose is the highest out of the four fixed dose levels which can be administered without causing compound-related mortality (including humane kills).
These two end points are evaluated by the following tests: (i) Tests on the production of gene (point) mutations in procaryotic cells such as Salmonella typhimurium; tests using Escherichia coli are also acceptable.
The choice between these two test organisms may be determined by the nature of the chemical being tested. (ii) Tests on the production of chromosomal aberrations in mammalian cells grown in vitro; an in vivo procedure (the micronucleus test or the metaphase analysis of bone marrow cells) is also acceptable.
Where available, evidence of adverse effects in humans may be of relevance in determining the potential effects of chemical substances on the human population.
For rats, mice and guinea pigs, suitable conditions are a room temperature of 22 ± 3 C with a relative humidity of 30 to 70 %; for rabbits the temperature should be 20 ± 3 C with a relative humidity of 30 to 70 %.
When lighting is artificial, the sequence should normally be 12 hours light, 12 hours dark.
Where test substances are administered to animals in their diet the nutritional value may be reduced by interaction between the substance and a dietary constituent.
Such scientific evidence can be based on the physico-chemical properties of the substance, the results of other tests already performed, or the results of well validated in vitro tests.
B.1 ACUTE TOXICITY (ORAL) 1.
REFERENCE SUBSTANCES None. 1.4.
Subsequently, observations of effects and deaths are made.
QUALITY CRITERIA None. 1.6.
DESCRIPTION OF THE TEST METHOD 1.6.1.
Preparations The animals are kept under the experimental housing and feeding conditions for at least five days prior to the test.
Where necessary, the test substance is dissolved or suspended in a suitable vehicle.
In rodents, normally the volume should not exceed 10 ml/kg body weight except in the case of aqueous solutions where 20 ml/kg may be used.
Variability in test volume should be minimized by adjusting the concentration to ensure a constant volume at all dose levels. 1.6.2.
Test Conditions 1.6.2.1.
For each sex, at the start of the test the range of weight variation in the animals used should not exceed ± 20 % of the appropriate mean value. 1.6.2.2.
Number and Sex At least five rodents are used at each dose level.
Where information is available demonstrating that a sex is markedly more sensitive, animals of this sex should be dosed.
The data should be sufficient to produce a dose/response curve and, where possible, permit an acceptable determination of the LD50. 1.6.2.4.
Limit Test When rodents are used, a limit test at one dose level of at least 2 000 mg/kg bodyweight may be carried out in a group of five males and five females using the procedures described above.
If compound-related mortality is produced, a full study may need to be considered. 1.6.2.5.
Observation Period The observation period should be at least 14 days.
The time at which signs of toxicity appear and disappear and the time of death are important, especially if there is a tendency for deaths to be delayed. 1.6.3 Procedure Animals should be fasted prior to substance administration.
If a single dose is not possible, the dose may be given in smaller fractions over a period not exceeding 24 hours.
After the substance has been administered, food may be withheld for a further three to four hours.
Observations should include changes in the skin and fur, eyes and mucous membranes, and also respiratory, circulatory, autonomic and central nervous systems, and somatomotor activity and behaviour pattern.
The time of death should be recorded as precisely as possible.
Assessment of toxicity in the other sex After completion of the study in one sex, at least one group of five animals of the other sex is dosed to establish that animals of this sex are not markedly more sensitive to the test substance.
Where adequate information is available to demonstrate that animals of the sex tested are markedly more sensitive, testing in animals of the other sex may be dispensed with. 2.
DATA Data should be summarized in tabular form, showing for each test group the number of animals at the start of the test, time of death of individual animals, number of animals displaying other signs of toxicity, description of toxic effects and necropsy findings.
Individual weights of animals should be determined and recorded shortly before the test substance is administered, weekly thereafter and at death.
Changes in weight should be calculated and recorded when survival exceeds one day.
Data evaluation should include the relationship, if any, between the animals' exposure to the test substance and the incidence and severity of all abnormalities, including behavioural and clinical abnormalities, gross lesions, body weight changes, mortality, and any other toxicological effects. 3.
REFERENCES See General Introduction Part B (E).
INTRODUCTION See General Introduction Part B (A). 1.2.
DEFINITIONS See General Introduction Part B (B). 1.3.
REFERENCE SUBSTANCES None. 1.4.
PRINCIPLE OF THE TEST METHOD The acute oral toxicity test provides information on the adverse effects which can follow, within a short period of time, the ingestion of a single dose of the test substance.
The fixed dose method is conducted in two stages.
In a preliminary sighting study, the effects of various doses administered orally by gavage to single animals of one sex are investigated in a sequential manner.
Where evident toxicity is not seen at the chosen dose level, the substance should be re-tested at the next higher dose level.
QUALITY CRITERIA None. 1.6.
DESCRIPTION OF THE TEST METHOD 1.6.1.
Preparations 1.6.1.1.
For each sex, at the start of the test, the range of weight variation in the animals used should not exceed ± 20 % of the appropriate mean value.
The animals are kept under the experimental housing and feeding conditions for at least five days prior to the test.
In rodents, normally the volume should not exceed 10 ml/kg body weight except in the case of aqueous solutions where 20 ml/kg may be used.
Where a dose is administered in fractions over a period it may be necessary to provide the animals with food and water depending on the length of the period. 1.6.2.
All animals are carefully observed for signs of toxicity for at least seven days; if signs of moderate toxicity persist at seven days, the animal should be observed for up to an additional seven days.
The following initial dose levels are considered : 5, 50, 500 and 2 000 mg/kg.
In the absence of such information, it is suggested that the 500 mg/kg dose is used in the first instance.
If severe effects, necessitating humane killing are seen at the initial dose (e.g. 500 mg/kg), the next lower dose (e.g. 50 mg/kg) is given to another animal.
The dose level to be used in the test should be selected from one of the four fixed dose levels, namely 5, 50, 500 or 2 000 mg/kg body weight.
The initial dose level chosen should be that which is likely to produce evident toxicity but no compound-related mortality (including humane kills; accidental deaths are not included but should be recorded).
N further testing is necessary when this dose level produces evident toxicity but no compound-related mortality.
Where evident toxicity does not result from administration of the chosen dose level, the substance should be re-tested at the next higher dose level.
The observation period should be at least 14 days.
Additional observations will be necessary during the first few days after dosing if the animals continue to display signs of toxicity.
Observations should include changes in the skin and fur, eyes and mucous membranes, and also respiratory, circulatory, autonomic and central nervous systems, and somatomotor activity and behaviour pattern.
The investigation of a second or, in exceptional circumstances, a third dose level may be required, dependent upon the results of the preceding dose level.
DATA Data from both the sighting study and the main study should be summarized in tabular form showing for each dose level tested the number of animals at the start of the test; the number of animals displaying signs of toxicity; the number of animals found dead during the test or killed for humane reasons; a description of the toxic effects and, for the main study, whether compound-related evident toxicity was observed; the time course of any toxic effects; and the necropsy findings.
Changes in weight should be calculated and recorded when survival exceeds one day.
REFERENCES See General Introduction Part B (E).
ACUTE TOXICITY (INHALATION) 1.
INTRODUCTION It is useful to have preliminary information on the particle size distribution, the vapour pressure, the melting point, the boiling point, the flash point and explosivity (if applicable) of the substance.
See also General Introduction Part B (A). 1.2.
DEFINITIONS See General Introduction Part B (B). 1.3.
REFERENCE SUBSTANCES None. 1.4.
PRINCIPLE OF THE TEST METHOD Several groups of experimental animals are exposed for a defined period to the test substance in graduated concentrations, one concentration being used per group.
Subsequently observations of effects and deaths are made.
QUALITY CRITERIA None. 1.6.
DESCRIPTION OF THE TEST METHOD 1.6.1.
Preparations The animals are kept under the experimental housing and feeding conditions for at least five days prior to the experiment.
Where necessary a suitable vehicle may be added to the test substance to help generate an appropriate concentration of the test substance in the atmosphere and a vehicle control group should then be used.
Test Conditions 1.6.2.1.
For each sex, at the start of the test the range of weight variation in the animals used should not exceed ± 20 % of the appropriate mean value. 1.6.2.2.
Number and Sex At least 10 rodents (five female and five male) are used at each concentration level.
The data should be sufficient to produce a concentration mortality curve and, where possible, permit an acceptable determination of an LC50. 1.6.2.4.
Limit Test If an exposure of five male and five female test animals to 5 mg per litre of a gas, or aerosol of liquid or solid substance (or, where this 2s not possible due to the physical or chemical, including explosive, properties of the test substance, the maximum attainable concentration) produces, after a four-hour exposure, no compound-related mortality within 14 days, further testing may not be considered necessary. 1.6.2.5.
Exposure Time The period of exposure should be four hours. 1.6.2.6.
As a general rule to ensure stability of a chamber atmosphere the total 'volume` of the test animals should not exceed 5 % of the volume of the test chamber.
Oro-nasal, head only, or whole body individual chamber exposure may be used; the first two will help to minimize the uptake of the test substance by other routes. 1.6.2.7.
Observation Period The observation period should be at least 14 days.
Procedure Shortly before exposure, the animals are weighed, and then exposed to the test concentration in the designated apparatus for a period of four hours, after equilibration of the chamber concentration.
Ideally the relative humidity should be maintained between 30 % and 70 %, but in certain instances (e.g.
Maintenance of a slight negative pressure inside the chamber ( %amp% ge; 5 mm of water) will prevent leakage of the test substance into the surrounding area.
The system should ensure that stable exposure conditions are achieved as rapidly as possible.
During the exposure period the concentration should not vary by more than ± 15 % of the mean value.
Observations should include changes in the skin and fur, eyes, mucous membranes, respiratory, circulatory, autonomic and central nervous systems, and somatomotor activity and behaviour pattern.
The time of death should be recorded as precisely as possible.
DATA Data should be summarized in tabular form showing for each test group the number of animals at the start of the test, time of death of individual animals, number of animals displaying other signs of toxicity, description of toxic effects and necropsy findings.
Changes in weight must be calculated and recorded when survival exceeds one day.
The LC50 should be determined by a recognized method.
Data evaluation should include the relationship, if any, between the animal's exposure to the test substance and the incidence and severity of all abnormalities, including behavioural and clinical abnormalities, gross lesions, body weight changes, mortality and any other toxic effects. 3.
TEST REPORT The test report shall, if possible, include the following information: - species, strain, source, environmental conditions, diet etc.; - test conditions: description of exposure apparatus including design, type, dimensions, source of air, system for generating aerosols, method of conditioning air and the method of housing animals in a test chamber when this is used.
REFERENCES See General Introduction Part B (E).
ACUTE TOXICITY (DERMAL) 1.
INTRODUCTION See General Introduction Part B (A). 1.2.
DEFINITION See General Introduction Part B (B). 1.3.
REFERENCE SUBSTANCES None. 1.4.
Subsequently, observations of effects and deaths are made.
QUALITY CRITERIA None. 1.6.
Preparations The animals are kept in their experimental cages under the experimental housing and feeding conditions for at least five days prior to the experiment.
Not less than 10 % of the body surface should be clear for the application of the test substance.
When a vehicle is used, the influence of the vehicle on penetration of skin by the test substance should be taken into account.
Liquid test substances are generally used undiluted. 1.6.2.
Test Conditions 1.6.2.1.
Experimental Animals The adult rat or rabbit may be used.
Other species may be used but their use would require justification.
For each sex, at the start of the test the range of weight variation in the animals used should not exceed ± 20 % of the appropriate mean value. 1.6.2.2.
Where information is available demonstrating that a sex is markedly more sensitive, animals of this sex should be dosed.
Note: In acute toxicity tests with animals of a higher order than rodents, the use of smaller numbers should be considered.
The data should be sufficient to produce a dose/response curve and, where possible, permit an acceptable determination of the LD50. 1.6.2.4.
Limit Test A limit test at one dose level of at least 2 000 mg/kg bodyweight may be carried out in a group of 5 male and 5 female animals, using the procedures described above.
If compound-related mortality is produced, a full study may need to be considered. 1.6.2.5.
Observation Period The observation period should be at least 14 days.
The time at which signs of toxicity appear and disappear, their duration and the time of death are important, especially if there is a tendency for deaths to be delayed. 1.6.3.
With highly toxic substances the surface area covered may be less but as much of the area should be covered with a layer as thin and uniform as possible.
Test substances should be held in contact with the skin with a porous gauze dressing and non-irritating tape throughout a 24-hour exposure period.
Restrainers may be used to prevent the ingestion of the test substance but complete immobilisation is not a recommended method.
At the end of the exposure period, residual test substance should be removed, where practicable, using water or some other appropriate method of cleansing the skin.
The time of death must be recorded as precisely as possible.
Assessment of toxicity in the other sex After completion of the study in one sex, at least one group of 5 animals of the other sex is dosed to establish that animals of this sex are not markedly more sensitive to the test substance.
Where adequate information is available to demonstrate that animals of the sex tested are markedly more sensitive, testing in animals of the other sex may be dispensed with. 2.
DATA Data should be summarized in tabular form, showing for each test group the number of animals at the start of the test, time of death of individual animals, number of animals displaying other signs of toxicity, description of toxic effects and necropsy findings.
Individual weights of animals should be determined and recorded shortly before the test substance is applied, weekly thereafter, and at death; changes in weight should be calculated and recorded when survival exceeds one day.
Data evaluation should include an evaluation of relationships, if any, between the animal's exposure to the test substance and the incidence and severity of all abnormalities, including behavioural and clinical abnormalities, gross lesions, body weight changes, mortality, and any other toxicological effects. 3.
REFERENCES See General Introduction Part B (E).
INTRODUCTION See General Introduction Part B (A). 1.2.
DEFINITION See General Introduction Part B (B). 1.3.
REFERENCE SUBSTANCES None. 1.4.
If an acute toxicity test by the dermal route has been conducted with the substance at the limit test dose level (2 000 mg/kg body weight), and no skin irritation was observed, further testing for skin irritation may be unnecessary.
The substance to be tested is applied in a single dose to the skin of several experimental animals, each animal serving as its own control.
Animals showing severe and enduring signs of distress and pain may need to be humanely killed. 1.5.
QUALITY CRITERIA None. 1.6.
Liquid test substances are generally used undiluted. 1.6.2.
Test Conditions 1.6.2.1.
Experimental Animals Although several mammalian species may be used, the albino rabbit is the preferred species. 1.6.2.2.
For the complete test, at least three healthy adult animals are used.
Dose Level Unless there are contra-indications 0,5 ml of liquid or 0,5 g of solid or semi-solid is applied to the test site.
Adjacent areas of untreated skin of each animal serve as controls for the test. 1.6.2.4.
The test substance should be applied to a small area (approximately 6 cm2) of skin and covered with a gauze patch, which is held in place with non-irritating tape.
Such testing may also employ a single animal in the first instance and, if not precluded by the acute dermal toxicity of the test compound, three patches may be applied simultaneously to this animal.
The first patch is removed after three minutes.
Further observations may be needed if reversibility has not been fully established within 72 hours.
Any serious lesions, a description of the degree and nature of irritation, reversibility or corrosion and any other toxic effect observed should be recorded. 3.
REFERENCES See General Introduction Part B (E).
INTRODUCTION See General Introduction Part B (A). 1.2.
DEFINITION See General Introduction Part B (B). 1.3.
REFERENCE SUBSTANCES None. 1.4.
The substance to be tested is applied in a single dose to one of the eyes in each of several experimental animals; the untreated eye is used to provide control information.
Animals showing severe and enduring signs of distress and pain may need to be humanely killed. 1.5.
QUALITY CRITERIA None. 1.6.
Test Conditions 1.6.2.1.
Experimental Animals Although a variety of experimental animals have been used it is recommended that testing be performed using healthy adult albino rabbits. 1.6.2.2.
If the results of this test in one rabbit suggest the substance to be severely irritant (reversible effect) or corrosive (irreversible effect) to the eye using the procedure described, further testing for ocular irritancy in subsequent animals may not need to be carried out.
In cases other than a single-animal test at least 3 animals should be used.
In testing solids, pastes, and particulate substances, the amount used should have a volume of 0,1 ml, or weigh approximately 0,1 g (the weight must always be recorded).
Observation Period The duration of the observation period should not be rigidly fixed.
The type, concentration, and the time of application of the local anaesthetic should be carefully selected to ensure that no significant differences in reaction to the test substance will result from its use.
Observation and Grading The eyes should be examined at 1, 24, 48 and 72 hours.
If there is no evidence of ocular lesions at 72 hours the study may be ended.
A description of the degree and nature of irritation, the presence of serious lesions and any effects other than ocular which were observed, shall be reported. 3.
REFERENCES See General Introduction Part B (E).
INTRODUCTION Remarks: The sensitivity and ability of tests to detect potential human skin sensitizers are considered important in a classification system for toxicity relevant to public health.
See also General Introduction Part B (A). 1.2.
DEFINITION See General Introduction Part B (B). 1.3.
REFERENCE SUBSTANCES The following substances, diluted as necessary, are recommended, as well as any other sensitizing substance known either from the literature or which belongs to the group of the substance being tested. - p-phenylenediamineCAS N 106-50-3 - 2,4-dinitrochlorobenzeneCAS N 97-00-7 - potassium dichromateCAS N 7778-50-9 - neomycin sulphateCAS N 1405-10-3 - nickel sulphateCAS N 7786-81-4 1.4.
PRINCIPLE OF THE TEST METHODS Following initial exposure to a test substance (the 'induction` period) the animals are subjected approximately two weeks after the last induction exposure to a 'challenge` exposure to the test substance in order to establish if a hypersensitive state has been induced.
QUALITY CRITERIA None. 1.6.
Guinea-Pig Maximization Test (GPMT) 1.6.1.1.
Test conditions 1.6.1.2.1.
Experimental Animals Commonly used laboratory strains of albino guinea-pigs are used, weighing less than 500 g. 1.6.1.2.2.
Number and Sex Male and/or female animals can be used.
A minimum of 10 animals is used in the treated group and at least 5 in the control group.
When it is not possible to conclude definitively that the test substance is or is not a sensitizer, testing in additional animals to give a total of at least 20 test and 10 control animals is recommended. 1.6.1.2.3.
Dose levels The concentration of the test substance is adjusted to a level that produces some evidence of skin irritation, but that is well tolerated by the animals in each induction stage.
These concentrations can be determined by a small scale (two to three animals) pilot study. 1.6.1.2.4.
After the challenge exposure, skin reactions are recorded 24 and 48 hours after the removal of the patch. 1.6.1.3.
Procedure The animals are weighed before the test commences and at the end of the test.
There are two stages in the procedure: 1.6.1.3.1.
Induction Day 0 - treated group The following pairs of intradermal injections, each of 0,1 ml, are given in the shoulder region so that one of each pair lies on each side of the midline: Injection 1:0,1 ml of Freunds Complete Adjuvant (FCA) mixed with water or physiological saline 1:1, Injection 2:0,1 ml of test substance, when necessary in an appropriate vehicle, Injection 3:0,1 ml of test substance in FCA.
In injection 3, water soluble substances are dissolved in 0,05 ml water and 0,05 ml undiluted FCA.
In injection 3, the final concentration of test substance shall be equal to that in injection 2.
Day 0 - control group The following pairs of intradermal injections are given in the same sites as above: Injection 1:0,1 ml of Freunds Complete Adjuvant (FCA) mixed with water or physiological saline 1:1, Injection 2:0,1 ml of vehicle alone, Injection 3:0,1 ml of vehicle in FCA.
The vehicle only is applied in a similar manner to the test area and held in contact by an occlusive dressing for 48 hours. 1.6.1.3.2.
The patches are held in contact by an occlusive dressing for 24 hours.
To clarify the results obtained in the first challenge, a second challenge, if necessary with a new vehicle control group, should be considered approximately one week after the first one. 1.6.1.3.3.
Buehler test 1.6.2.1.
Preparations Healthy young albino guinea-pigs are randomized and assigned to the treatment and control groups.
Test conditions 1.6.2.2.1.
Experimental animals Commonly used laboratory strains of albino guinea-pigs are used, weighing less than 500 g. 1.6.2.2.2.
At least 20 animals are used in the treated group and at least 10 in the control group.
In the case of equivocal results, histopathological examination may help to decide if the test should be repeated using another set of animals. 1.6.2.2.3.
These concentrations can be determined by a small scale (two to three animals) study. 1.6.2.2.4.
Procedure The animals are weighed before the test commences and at the end of the test.
There are two stages in the procedure: 1.6.2.3.1.
Challenge Day 28 The other flank of treated and control animals is cleared of hair.
An occlusive patch or chamber containing 0,5 ml of the test substance is applied, at the maximum non-irritant concentration, to the posterior of the flank of treated animals.
Observation and grading All skin reactions and any unusual findings resulting from induction and challenge procedures should be recorded and reported.
DATA (GPMT and Buehler test) Data should be summarized in tabular form, showing for each animal the skin reactions at each observation. 3.
REPORTING (GPMT and Buehler test) 3.1.
REFERENCES See General Introduction Part B (E).
REPEATED DOSE (28 DAYS) TOXICITY (ORAL) 1.
INTRODUCTION See General Introduction Part B (A). 1.2.
DEFINITIONS See General Introduction Part B (B). 1.3.
REFERENCE SUBSTANCES None. 1.4.
PRINCIPLE OF THE TEST METHOD The test substance is administered orally, daily, in graduated doses to several groups of experimental animals, one dose per group for a period of 28 days.
During the period of administration the animals are observed daily to detect signs of toxicity.
Animals which die during the test are necropsied and at the conclusion of the test surviving animals are necropsied. 1.5.
QUALITY CRITERIA None. 1.6.
Preparations The animals are kept under the experimental housing and feeding conditions for at least five days prior to the test.
The test substance may be administered in the diet, by gavage, in capsules, or in the drinking water.
Test conditions 1.6.2.1.
Commonly used laboratory strains of young healthy animals should be employed and dosing should begin ideally before the rats are six weeks old, and in any case not more than eight weeks old.
At the commencement of the study, the range of weight variation in the animals used should not exceed ± 20 % of the appropriate mean value. 1.6.2.2.
Number and sex At least 10 animals (five female and five male) should be used at each dose level.
In addition, a satellite group of 10 animals (five animals per sex) may be treated with the high dose level for 28 days and observed for reversibility, persistence, or delayed occurrence of toxic effects for 14 days post-treatment.
A satellite group of 10 control animals (five animals per sex) is also used. 1.6.2.3.
Except for treatment with the test substance, animals in the control group should be handled in an identical manner to the test-group subjects.
Where a vehicle is used to facilitate dosing, the controls should be dosed with the vehicle in the same way as the treated groups, and receive the same amount of vehicle as that received by the highest dose level group.
The lowest dose level should not produce any evidence of toxicity.
Ideally, the middle dose level should produce minimal observable toxic effects.
If more than one intermediate dose is used the dose levels should be spaced to produce a gradation of toxic effects.
In the low and intermediate groups and in the controls, the incidence of any fatalities should be low in order to permit a meaningful evaluation of results.
When the test substance is administered in the diet, either a constant dietary concentration (ppm or mg/kg of food) or a constant dose level in terms of the animal's body weight may be used; the alternative used must be specified.
Limit Test If a 28-day study conducted in accordance with the method detailed below, at one dose level of 1 000 mg/kg body weight/day or a higher dose level related to possible human exposure where this is known, produces no evidence of toxic effects, further testing may not be considered necessary.
The time of death and the time at which signs of toxicity appear and disappear should be recorded. 1.6.3.
Procedure The animals are dosed with the test substance ideally on seven days per week for a period of 28 days.
Animals in any satellite group scheduled for follow-up observations should be kept for a further 14 days without treatment to detect recovery from, or persistence of, toxic effects.
At least the liver, kidney, adrenals, and testes should be weighed wet as soon as possible after dissection to avoid drying.
Organs and tissues (liver, kidney, spleen, testes, adrenals, heart, and any organs showing gross lesions or changes in size) should be preserved in a suitable medium for possible future histopathological examination. 1.6.3.2.
Organs and tissues showing defects attributable to the test substance at the highest dosage level should be examined in all lower-dosage groups.
Animals in any satellite group should be examined histologically with particular emphasis on those organs and tissues identified as showing effects in the other treated groups. 2.
DATA Data should be summarized in tabular form, showing for each test group the number of animals at the start of the test and the number of animals displaying each type of lesion.
Any recognized statistical method may be used. 3.
REFERENCES See General Introduction Part B (E).
REPEATED DOSE (28 DAYS) TOXICITY (INHALATION) 1.
DEFINITION See General Introduction Part B (B). 1.3.
REFERENCE SUBSTANCES None. 1.4.
PRINCIPLE OF THE TEST METHOD Several groups of experimental animals are exposed daily for a defined period to the test substance in graduated concentrations, one concentration being used per group, for a period of 28 days.
QUALITY CRITERIA None. 1.6.
Preparations The animals are kept under the experimental housing and feeding conditions for at least five days prior to the experiment.
Where necessary, a suitable vehicle may be added to the test substance to help generate an appropriate concentration of the substance in the atmosphere.
Test Conditions 1.6.2.1.
At the commencement of the study the range of weight variation in the animals used should not exceed ± 20 % of the appropriate mean value. 1.6.2.2.
Number and Sex At least 10 animals (five female and five male) should be used for each test group.
In addition, a satellite group of 10 animals (five animals per sex) may be treated with the high concentration level for 28 days and observed for reversibility, persistence, or delayed occurrence of toxic effects for 14 days post-treatment.
A satellite group of 10 control animals (five animals per sex) is also used. 1.6.2.3.
Except for treatment with the test substance, animals in the control group should be handled in an identical manner to the test-group animals.
The lowest concentration should not produce any evidence of toxicity.
If more than one intermediate concentration is used the concentrations should be spaced to produce a gradation of toxic effects.
In the low and intermediate groups and in the controls, the incidence of fatalities should be low to permit a meaningful evaluation of the results. 1.6.2.4.
Exposure Time The duration of daily exposure should be six hours but other periods may be needed to meet specific requirements. 1.6.2.5.
Oro-nasal, head only, or individual whole body chamber exposure may be used; the first two will minimize uptake by other routes. 1.6.2.6.
Observation Period The experimental animals should be observed daily for signs of toxicity during the entire treatment and recovery period.
The time of death and the time at which signs of toxicity appear and disappear should be recorded. 1.6.3.
Procedure The animals are exposed to the test substance daily, five to seven days per week, for a period of 28 days.
Animals in any satellite groups scheduled for follow-up observations should be kept for a further 14 days without treatment to detect recovery from, or persistence of, toxic effects.
The temperature at which the test is performed should be maintained at 22 ± 3 C.
Ideally, the relative humidity should be maintained between 30 and 70 %, but in certain instances (e.g.
The system should ensure that stable exposure conditions are achieved as rapidly as possible.
During and following exposure observations are made and recorded systematically; individual records should be maintained for each animal.
All the animals should be observed daily and signs of toxicity recorded including the time of onset, their degree and duration.
Additional clinical biochemistry may be employed, where necessary, to extend the investigation of observed toxic effects. 1.6.3.1.
Organs and tissues showing defects attributable to the test substance at the highest dosage level should be examined in all lower-dosage groups.
Animals in any satellite groups should be examined histologically with particular emphasis on those organs and tissues identified as showing effects in the other treated groups. 2.
DATA Data should be summarized in tabular form, showing for each test group the number of animals at the start of the test and the number of animals displaying each type of lesion.
Any recognized statistical method may be used. 3.
TEST REPORT The test report shall, if possible, include the following information: - species, strain, source, environmental conditions, diet, etc.; - test conditions: Description of exposure apparatus including design, type, dimensions, source of air, system for generating aerosols, method of conditioning air, treatment of exhaust air and the method of housing animals in a test chamber when this is used.
The equipment for measuring temperature, humidity and, where appropriate, stability of aerosol concentrations or particle size distribution, should be described.
REFERENCES See General Introduction Part B (E).
REPEATED DOSE (28 DAYS) TOXICITY (DERMAL) 1.
INTRODUCTION See General Introduction Part B (A). 1.2.
DEFINITIONS See General Introduction Part B (B). 1.3.
REFERENCE SUBSTANCES None. 1.4.
PRINCIPLE OF THE TEST METHOD The test substance is applied daily to the skin in graduated doses to several groups of experimental animals, one dose per group, for a period of 28 days.
Animals which die during the test are necropsied and at the conclusion of the test surviving animals are necropsied. 1.5.
QUALITY CRITERIA None. 1.6.
Preparations The animals are kept under the experimental housing and feeding conditions for at least five days prior to the test.
Not less than 10 % of the body surface area should be clear for the application of the test substance.
Liquid test substances are generally used undiluted.
Test Conditions 1.6.2.1.
Experimental Animals The adult rat, rabbit or guinea-pig may be used.
Other species may be used but their use would require justification.
At the commencement of the study, the range of weight variation in the animals used should not exceed ± 20 % of the appropriate mean value. 1.6.2.2.
Number and Sex At least 10 animals (five female and five male) with healthy skin should be used at each dose level.
In addition, a satellite group of 10 animals (five animals per sex) may be treated with the high dose level for 28 days and observed for reversibility, persistence, or delayed occurrence of toxic effects for 14 days post-treatment.
A satellite group of 10 control animals (five animals per sex) is also used. 1.6.2.3.
Dose levels At least three dose levels are required with a control or a vehicle control if a vehicle is used.
The exposure period should be at least six hours per day.
Except for treatment with the test substance, animals in the control group should be handled in an identical manner to the test group subjects.
Where a vehicle is used to facilitate dosing, the vehicle control group should be dosed in the same way as the treated groups, and receive the same amount as that received by the highest dose level group.
The lowest dose level should not produce any evidence or toxicity.
Ideally, the intermediate dose level should produce minimal observable toxic effects.
If more than one intermediate dose is used the dose levels should be spaced to produce a gradation of toxic effects.
In the low and intermediate groups and in the controls, the incidence of fatalities should be low in order to permit a meaningful evaluation of the results.
If application of the test substance produces severe skin irritation, the concentrations should be reduced and this may result in a reduction in, or absence of, other toxic effects at the high dose level.
Limit Test If a preliminary study at a dose level of 1 000 mg/kg, or a higher dose level related to possible human exposure where this is known, produces no toxic effects, further testing may not be considered necessary. 1.6.2.5.
Observation Period The experimental animals should be observed daily for signs of toxicity.
The time of death and the time at which signs of toxicity appear and disappear should be recorded. 1.6.3.
The animals are treated with the test substance, ideally on seven days per week, for a period of 28 days.
Animals in any satellite groups scheduled for follow-up observations should be kept for a further 14 days without treatment to detect recovery from or persistence of toxic effects.
All the animals should be observed daily and signs of toxicity recorded including the time of onset, their degree and duration.
Additional clinical biochemistry may be employed, where necessary, to extend the investigation of observed effects. 1.6.4.
Histopathological Examination In the high dose group and in the control group, histological examination should be performed on the preserved organs and tissues.
Organs and tissues showing defects attributable to the test substance at the highest dosage level should be examined in all lower-dosage groups.
Animals in the satellite group should be examined histologically with particular emphasis on those organs and tissues identified as showing effects in the other treated groups. 2.
DATA Data should be summarized in tabular form, showing for each test group the number of animals at the start of the test and the number of animals displaying each type of lesion.
Any recognized statistical method may be used. 3.
REFERENCES See General Introduction Part B (E).
INTRODUCTION See General Introduction Part B (A). 1.2.
DEFINITION See General Introduction Part B (C). 1.3.
REFERENCE SUBSTANCES None. 1.4.
PRINCIPLE OF THE TEST METHOD The in vitro cytogenetic test is a short-term mutagenicity test for the detection of structural chromosomal aberrations in cultured mammalian cells.
Cultures of established cell lines as well as primary cell cultures may be used.
After exposure to test chemicals with and without an appropriate metabolic activation system, cell cultures are treated with spindle inhibitors such as colchicine to accumulate cells in a metaphase-like stage of mitosis (c-metaphase).
QUALITY CRITERIA None. 1.6.
Preparations 1.6.1.1.
Test chemicals are prepared in culture medium or dissolved in appropriate vehicles prior to treatment of the cells. 1.6.1.2.
The most commonly used system is a cofactor-supplemented post-mitochondrial fraction prepared from the livers of rodents treated with enzyme-inducing agents. 1.6.2.
Dose level: At least three doses of the test compound over at least a one-log dose range are employed.
Procedure 1.6.3.1.
Preparation of cultures Established cell lines: Cells are generated from stock cultures (e.g.
Human lymphocytes: Heparinized whole blood is added to culture medium containing phytohaemagglutinin, fetal calf serum and antibiotics and incubated at 37 C. 1.6.3.2.
The test chemical is added to cultures of established cell lines when they are in the exponential stage of growth.
Analysis: At least 100 well-spread metaphases per culture are analyzed for chromosomal aberrations.
In human lymphocytes only metaphases containing 46 centromeres are analyzed.
Additionally, the mitotic index, or some other indication of cytotoxicity when appropriate, should be assessed during the test for each dose level. 2.
At least two independent experiments are conducted.
Indeed, it may be preferable to alter certain test conditions in order to obtain more useful data. 3.
REFERENCES See General Introduction Part B (E).
INTRODUCTION See General Introduction Part B (A). 1.2.
DEFINITION See General Introduction Part B (C). 1.3.
REFERENCE SUBSTANCES None. 1.4.
QUALITY CRITERIA None. 1.6.
DESCRIPTION OF THE TEST METHOD 1.6.1.
If insoluble, they are dissolved or suspended in appropriate vehicles.
If a vehicle is used to facilitate dosing, it must not interfere with the test compound or produce toxic effects. 1.6.2.
Test Conditions 1.6.2.1.
Healthy young adult animals are randomized and assigned to treatment and control groups. 1.6.2.2.
Number and Sex At least five female and five male animals per experimental and control group are employed.
Thus, 10 animals would be sacrificed per time period per group if several test times after treatment are included in the experimental schedule.
For the positive control group, a single sampling time is sufficient. 1.6.2.3.
However, the repeated treatment schedule can only be applied if the test compound does not exhibit cytotoxic effects in bone-marrow.
Other routes of administration may be appropriate. 1.6.2.4.
For 'non-toxic` compounds, the maximum (limit) dose that needs to be investigated following single dose administration is 2 000 mg/kg body weight.
If a repeated dose schedule is employed, the limit dose is 1 000 mg/kg body weight per day.
If the test is being used as a method for verification at least two additional dose levels should be used. 1.6.3.
Procedure The test may be performed in two ways: (i) Animals are treated with the test compound once, at the highest tolerated dose.
However, if the results are negative or equivocal, since cell cycle kinetics can be influenced by the test chemical, one earlier and one later sampling interval, adequately spaced within the range of six to 48 hours, are applied.
When additional dose levels are used, samples should be taken at the particularly sensitive intervals or, if that is not known, 24 hours after treatment. (ii) If pharmacokinetic and metabolic information indicate a repeated treatment schedule, repeated dosage can be employed and samples should be taken six and 24 hours after the last treatment.
At least 50 well-spread metaphases with the complete number of centromeres are analyzed per animal for structural chromosomal aberrations.
Additionally, the mitotic indexes may be established for each animal. 2.
The data are evaluated by appropriate statistical methods. 3.
REFERENCE See General Introduction Part B (E).
INTRODUCTION See General Introduction Part B (A). 1.2.
DEFINITION See General Introduction Part B (C). 1.3.
REFERENCE SUBSTANCES None. 1.4.
PRINCIPLE OF THE TEST METHOD The micronucleus test is a mammalian short-term in vivo test for the detection of chromosomal damage or damage of the mitotic apparatus by chemicals.
Micronuclei are formed from chromosomal fragments or whole chromosomes lagging in mitosis.
Young polychromatic erythrocytes in the bone-marrow of laboratory mammals which were exposed to test substances by appropriate routes are used in this test.
QUALITY CRITERIA None. 1.6.
DESCRIPTION OF THE TEST METHOD 1.6.1.
If insoluble, they are dissolved or suspended in appropriate vehicles.
If a vehicle is used, it must not interfere with the test compound or produce toxic effects.
Test Conditions 1.6.2.1.
Experimental animals Mice are recommended, but other mammals may be used.
Healthy young adult animals are randomized and assigned to treatment and control groups. 1.6.2.2.
Number and Sex At least five female and five male animals per experimental and control group are employed.
Thus, 10 animals would be sacrificed per time period per group if several test times after treatment are included in the experimental schedule.
However, the repeated treatment schedule can only be applied if the test compound does not exhibit cytotoxic effects in bone-marrow.
Other routes of administration may be appropriate. 1.6.2.4.
For 'non-toxic` compounds, the maximum (limit) dose that needs to be investigated following single dose administration is 2 000 mg/kg body weight.
If a repeated dose schedule is employed, the limit dose is 1 000 mg/kg body weight per day.
If the test is being used as a method for verification at least two additional dose levels should be used. 1.6.3.
Procedure The test may be performed in two ways: (i) Animals are treated with the test compound once.
Therefore, samples of bone-marrow are taken at least twice starting not earlier than 12 hours after treatment, and not extending beyond 48 hours.
When additional dose levels are used, samples should be taken at the maximum sensitive period, or, if that is not known, 24 hours after treatment. (ii) If pharmacokinetic and metabolic information indicate a repeated treatment schedule, repeated dosage can be employed and samples should be taken once, not earlier than 12 hours after the last treatment.
The ratio of normochromatic to polychromatic erythrocytes is determined for each animal by counting a total of 1 000 erythrocytes. 2.
Mean numbers and standard deviations for each experimental and control group are also listed.
The listed data are evaluated by appropriate statistical methods. 3.
REFERENCES See General Introduction Part B (E).
MUTAGENICITY (ESCHERICHIA COLI - REVERSE MUTATION ASSAY) 1.
INTRODUCTION See General Introduction Part B (A). 1.2.
DEFINITION See General Introduction Part B (C). 1.3.
REFERENCE SUBSTANCES None. 1.4.
trp+ reversion by chemicals which cause base changes in the genome of the organism.
After a suitable period of incubation on minimal medium, revertant colonies are counted and compared to the number of spontaneous revertants in an untreated and/or solvent control culture. 1.5.
QUALITY CRITERIA None. 1.6.
DESCRIPTION OF THE TEST METHOD The following methods may be used to perform the assay: (1) the preincubation method; and (2) the direct incorporation method in which bacteria and test agent are mixed in overlay agar and poured over the surface of a selective agar plate. 1.6.1.
Preparation 1.6.1.1.
Bacteria Bacteria are grown at 37 C up to late exponential or early stationary phase of growth.
Approximate cell density should be 108-109 cells per millilitre. 1.6.1.2.
Test Condition 1.6.2.1.
Recognized methods of stock culture preparations and storage are to be used.
The growth requirements and the genetic identity of the strains, their sensitivity to UV radiation or mitomycin C and the resistance to ampicillin in strain WP2 uvr A pKM 101 has to be checked.
Amount of test substance per plate At least five different amounts of test chemical are tested, with half-log intervals between plates.
Non-toxic chemicals should be tested to 5 mg per plate before considering the test substance negative. 1.6.2.5.
Incubation conditions Plates are incubated for 48 up to 72 hours at 37 C. 1.6.3.
Procedure For the direct plate incorporation method without enzyme activation, the chemical and 0,1 ml of a fresh bacterial culture are added to 2 ml of overlay agar.
For tests with metabolic activation, 0,5 ml of liver enzyme activation mixture containing an adequate amount of post-mitochondrial fraction is added to the agar overlay after the addition of test chemical and bacteria.
Overlay agar is allowed to solidify and plates are incubated at 37 C for 48 up to 72 hours.
For the preincubation method, a mixture of test chemical, 0,1 ml of a fresh bacterial culture and an adequate amount of liver enzyme activation mixture or the same amount of buffer is preincubated before adding 2 ml of overlay agar.
Data should be evaluated using appropriate statistical methods.
At least two independent experiments are conducted.
Indeed, it may be preferable to alter certain test conditions in order to obtain more useful data. 3.
REFERENCES See General Introduction Part B (E).
INTRODUCTION See General Introduction Part B (A). 1.2.
DEFINITION See General Introduction Part B (C). 1.3.
REFERENCE SUBSTANCES None. 1.4.
PRINCIPLE OF THE TEST METHOD The Salmonella typhimurium histidine (his) reversion system is a microbial assay which measures his .
After a suitable period of incubation, revertant colonies are counted and compared to the number of spontaneous revertants in an untreated and/or solvent control culture. 1.5.
QUALITY CRITERIA None. 1.6.
DESCRIPTION OF THE TEST METHOD 1.6.1.
Preparations 1.6.1.1.
Approximate cell density should be 108 to 109 cells per millilitre. 1.6.1.2.
Metabolic activation Bacteria should be exposed to the test substance both in the presence and absence of an appropriate metabolic activation system.
The most commonly used system is a cofactor-supplemented post-mitochondrial fraction prepared from the liver of rodents treated with enzyme-inducing agents. 1.6.2.
Test conditions 1.6.2.1.
Recognized methods of stock culture preparation and storage are to be used.
The following compounds may be used for tests without metabolic activation: StrainsReverts with TA 1535, TA 100Sodium azide TA 1538, TA 98, TA 972-nitrofluorene TA 15379-aminoacridine TA 102cumene hydroperoxide (ii) To ensure the activity of the appropriate metabolizing system.
When available a positive control of the same chemical class as the chemical under test should be used. 1.6.2.4.
Amount of test substance per plate At least five different amounts of test chemical are tested, with half-log intervals between plates.
Non-toxic chemicals should be tested to 5 mg per plate before considering the test substance negative. 1.6.2.5.
Incubation conditions Plates are incubated for 48 to 72 hours at 37 C. 1.6.3.
Procedure For the direct plate incorporation method without enzyme activation, the test chemical and 0,1 ml of fresh bacterial culture are added to 2 ml of overlay agar.
For tests with metabolic activation, 0,5 ml of liver enzyme activation mixture containing an adequate amount of post-mitochondrial fraction is added to the agar overlay after the addition of the test chemical and bacteria.
Overlay agar is allowed to solidify and plates are incubated at 37 C for 48 to 72 hours.
For the preincubation method, a mixture of the test chemical, 0,1 ml of fresh bacterial culture and an adequate amount of liver enzyme activation mixture or the same amount of buffer is preincubated before adding 2 ml of overlay agar.
Data should be evaluated using appropriate statistical methods.
At least two independent experiments are conducted.
Indeed, it may be preferable to alter certain test conditions in order to obtain more useful data. 3.
REFERENCES See General Introduction Part B (E).
PART C: METHODS FOR THE DETERMINATION OF ECOTOXICITY C.1.
INTRODUCTION The purpose of this test is to determine the acute lethal toxicity of a substance to fish in fresh water.
DEFINITIONS AND UNITS Acute toxicity is the discernible adverse effect induced in an organism within a short time (days) of exposure to a substance.
In the present test, acute toxicity is expressed as the median lethal concentration (LC50), that is the concentration in water which kills 50 % of a test batch of fish within a continuous period of exposure which must be stated.
All concentrations of the test substance are given in weight by volume (milligrams per litre).
N reference substances are specified for this test. 1.4.
PRINCIPLE OF THE TEST METHOD A limit test may be performed at 100 mg per litre in order to demonstrate that the LC50 is greater than this concentration.
The fish are exposed to the test substance added to water at a range of concentrations for a period of 96 hours.
Mortalities are recorded at least at 24-hour intervals, and the concentrations killing 50 % of the fish (LC50) at each observation time are calculated where possible. 1.5.
The dissolved oxygen concentration must have been more than 60 % of the air-saturation value throughout.
The concentrations of the test substance shall be maintained to within 80 % of the initial concentrations throughout the duration of the test.
For substances that are: (i) poorly soluble in the test medium, or (ii) capable of forming stable emulsions or dispersions, or (iii) not stable in aqueous solutions, the initial concentration shall be taken as the concentration measured in solution (or, if technically not possible, measured in the water column) at the start of the test.
The concentration shall be determined after a period of equilibration but before the introduction of the test fish.
In any of these cases, further measurements must be made during the test to confirm the actual exposure concentrations or that the quality criteria have been met.
Reagents 1.6.1.1.
If high concentrations are tested, the substance may be dissolved in the dilution water directly.
When such auxiliary substances are used, all test concentrations should contain the same amount of auxiliary substance, and additional control fish should be exposed to the same concentration of the auxiliary substance as that used in the test series.
The concentration of such auxiliaries should be minimized, but in no case should exceed 100 mg per litre in the test medium.
In that case, the pH value of the stock solution should be adjusted to the pH value of the dilution water unless there are specific reasons not to do so.
This pH adjustment should be made in such a way that the concentration of test substance in the stock solution is not changed to any significant extent.
Should any chemical reaction or physical precipitation of the test compound be caused by the adjustment, this should be reported. 1.6.1.2.
Apparatus All apparatus must be made of chemically inert material. - automatic dilution system (for flow-through test), - oxygen meter, - equipment for determination of hardness of water, - adequate apparatus for temperature control, - pH meter. 1.6.3.
Adaptation All fish must be exposed to water of the quality and the temperature to be used in the test for at least seven days before they are used. 1.6.5.
Fish are exposed to the substance as described below: - duration: 96 hours - number of animals: at least 7 per concentration, - tanks: of suitable capacity in relation to the recommended loading, - loading: maximum loading of 1 g per litre for static and semi-static tests is recommended; for flow-through systems, higher loading is acceptable, - test concentration: At least five concentrations differing by a constant factor not exceeding 2,2 and as far as possible spanning the range of 0 to 100 % mortality, - water: see 1.6.1.2, - light: 12 to 16 hours illumination daily, - temperature: appropriate to the species (Appendix 2) but within ± 1 C within any particular test, - dissolved oxygen concentration: not less than 60 % of the air-saturation value at the selected temperature, - feeding: none.
Limit test Using the procedures described in this test method, a limit test may be performed at 100 mg per litre in order to demonstrate that the LC50 is greater than this concentration.
If the nature of the substance is such that a concentration of 100 mg per litre in the test water cannot be attained, the limit test should be performed at a concentration equal to the solubility of the substance (or the maximum concentration forming a stable dispersion) in the medium used (see also point 1.6.1.1).
The limit test should be performed using 7 to 10 fish, with the same number in the control(s). (Binomial theory dictates that when 10 fish are used with zero mortality, there is a 99,9 % confidence that the LC50 is greater than the concentration used in the limit test.
With 7, 8 or 9 fish, the absence of mortality provides at least 99 % confidence that the LC50 is greater than the concentration used.) If mortalities occur, a full study must be carried out.
When possible and for each observation time, the LC50 and the confidence limits (p = 0,05) should be estimated using standard procedures; these values should be rounded off to one, or at most two significant figures (examples of rounding off to two figures: 170 for 173,5; 0,13 for 0,127; 1,2 for 1,21).
When two consecutive concentrations, at a ratio of 2,2 give only 0 and 100 % mortality, these two values are sufficient to indicate the range within which the LC50 falls.
REFERENCES (1) OECD, Paris, 1981, Test Guideline 203, Decision of the Council C(81) 30 final and updates. (2) AFNOR - Determination of the acute toxicity of a substance to Brachydanio rerio - Static and Flow Through methods - NFT 90-303 June 1985. (3) AFNOR - Determination of the acute toxicity of a substance to Salmo gairdneri - Static and Flow - Through methods - NFT 90-305 June 1985. (4) ISO 7346/1, /2 and /3 - Water Quality - Determination of the acute lethal toxicity of substances to a fresh water fish (Brachydanio rerio Hamilton-Buchanan - Teleostei, Cyprinidae).
Part 3: Flow-through method. (5) Eidgenössisches Department des Innern, Schweiz: Richtlinien fur Probenahme und Normung von Wasseruntersuchungsmethoden - Part II 1974. (6) DIN Testverfahren mit Wasserorganismen, 38 412 (L1) und L (15). (7) JIS K 0102, Acute toxicity test for fish. (8) NEN 6506 - Water - Bepaling van de akute toxiciteit met behulp van Poecilia reticulata, 1980. (9) Environmental Protection Agency, Methods for the acute toxicity tests with fish, macroinvertebrates and amphibians.
The Committee on Methods for Toxicity Tests with Aquatic Organisms, Ecological Research Series EPA-660-75-009, 1975. (10) Environmental Protection Agency, Environmental monitoring and support laboratory, Office of Research and Development, EPA-600/4-78-012, January 1978. (11) Environmental Protection Agency, Toxic Substance Control, Part IV, 16 March 1979. (12) Standard methods for the examination of water and wastewater, fourteen edition, APHA-AWWA-WPCF, 1975. (13) Commission of the European Communities,Inter-laboratory test programme concerning the study of the ecotoxicity of a chemical substance with respect to the fish.
Griffin, Weycombe, U.K., 1978. (17) Sprague, J.B.
Water Res. 1970, vol. 4, 3-32. (19) Stephan, C.E.
Appendix 1 Reconstituted water Example of a suitable dilution water All chemicals must be of analytical grade.
The water should be good-quality distilled water, or deionized water with a conductivity less than 5 ìScm 1.
If necessary adjust the pH with NaOH (sodium hydroxide) or HCl (hydrochloric acid).
The dilution water so prepared is set aside for about 12 hours and must not be further aerated.
The ratio of Ca:Mg ions is 4:1 and of Na:K ions is 10:1.
These fish are available in many parts of the world.
Appendix 3 Example of concentration: percentage mortality Example of %gt%START OF GRAPHIC%gt% %gt%END OF GRAPHIC%gt% determination of LC50 using log-probit paper C.2.
It is desirable to have, as far as possible, information on the water solubility, vapour pressure, chemical stability, dissociation constants and biodegradability of the substance before starting the test.
Acute toxicity is expressed in this test as the median effective concentration (EC50) for immobilization.
This is the concentration, in terms of initial values, which immobilizes 50 % of the Daphnia in a test batch within a continuous period of exposure which must be stated.
Immobilization: Those animals which are not able to swim within 15 seconds after gentle agitation of the test container are considered to be immobile.
All concentrations of the test substance are given in weight by volume (milligrams per litre).
PRINCIPLE OF THE TEST METHOD A limit test may be performed at 100 mg per litre in order to demonstrate that the EC50 is greater than this concentration.
The Daphnia are exposed to the test substance added to water at a range of concentrations for 48 hours.
Immobilization in the controls must not exceed 10 % at the end of the test.
Test Daphnia in the control groups must not have been trapped at the surface of the water.
It is desirable that the concentration of dissolved oxygen in the test vessels should remain above 3 mg l 1 throughout the course of the test.
The concentration of the test substance shall be maintained to within 80 % of the initial concentration throughout the duration of the test.
For substances that are: (i) poorly soluble in the test medium, or (ii) capable of forming stable emulsions or dispersions, or (iii) not stable in aqueous solutions, the initial concentration shall be taken as the concentration measured in solution (or, if technically not possible, measured in the water column) at the start of the test.
The concentration shall be determined after a period of equilibration but before the introduction of the test organisms.
In any of these cases, further measurements must be made during the test to confirm the actual exposure concentrations or that the quality criteria have been met.
DESCRIPTION OF TEST METHOD 1.6.1.
Reagents 1.6.1.1.
Solutions of test substances Stock solutions of the required strength are prepared by dissolving the substance in deionized water or water according to 1.6.1.2.
If high concentrations are tested, the substance may be dissolved in the dilution water directly.
Ultrasonic dispersion, organic solvents, emulsifiers or dispersants may be used as an aid to prepare stock solutions of substances with low aqueous solubility or to help to disperse these substances in the test medium.
When such auxiliary substances are used, all test concentrations should contain the same amount of auxiliary substances, and additional control Daphnia should be exposed to the same concentration of the auxiliary substance as that used in the test series.
The concentration of such auxiliaries should be minimized, but in no case should exceed 100 mg per litre in the test medium.
In that case, the pH value of the stock solution should be adjusted to the pH value of the solution water unless there are specific reasons not to do so.
This pH adjustment should be made in such a way that the concentration of test substance in the stock solution is not changed to any significant extent.
Test water Reconstituted water is used in this test (see Appendix 1 and reference (2) : ISO 6341).
To avoid the necessity for acclimation prior to the test, it is recommended that the culture water should be of similar quality (pH, hardness) as the water used for the test. 1.6.2.
Equipment which will come into contact with the test solutions should preferably be made entirely of glass: - Oxygen meter (with microelectrode or other suitable equipment for measuring dissolved oxygen in low-volume samples), - adequate apparatus for temperature control, - pH meter, - equipment for the determination of hardness of water. 1.6.3.
One control without the test substance is run and, if relevant, one control containing the auxiliary substance is also run in addition to the test series.
Daphnia are exposed to the substance as described below: - duration: preferably 48 hours, - number of animals: at least 20 animals at each test concentration preferably divided into four batches of five animals each or two batches of 10, - loading: at least 2 ml of test solutions should be provided for each animal, - test concentration: the test solution should be prepared immediately before introduction of the Daphnia, preferably without using any solvent other than water.
Concentrations sufficient to give 0 and 100 % immobilization after 48 hours and a range of intermediate degrees of immobilizations permitting calculation of the 48 hour EC50 should be tested together with controls, - water: see 1.6.1.2, - light: a light-dark cycle is optional, - temperature: the test temperature should be between 18 and 22 C, but for each single test it should be constant within ± 1 C, - aeration: the test solutions must not be bubble-aerated, - feeding: none.
The pH and the oxygen concentration of the controls and of all the test concentrations should be measured at the end of the test; the pH of the test solutions should not be modified.
Daphnia are inspected at least after 24 hours exposure and again after 48 hours.
Limit test Using the procedures described in this method, a limit test may be performed at 100 mg per litre in order to demonstrate that the EC50 is greater than this concentration.
If the nature of the substance is such that a concentration of 100 mg per litre in the test water cannot be attained, the limit test should be performed at a concentration equal to the solubility of the substance (or the maximum concentration forming a stable dispersion) in the medium used (see also point 1.6.1.1).
When possible and for each observation time, the EC50 and the confidence limits (p = 0,05) should be estimated using standard procedures; these values should be rounded off to one, or at most two significant figures (examples of rounding off to two figures : 170 for 173,5; 0,13 for 0,127; 1,2 for 1,21).
In those cases where the slope of the concentration/percentage response curve is too steep to permit calculation of the EC50, a graphical estimate of this value is sufficient.
When two immediately consecutive concentrations at a ratio of 2,2 give only 0 and 100 % immobilization these two values are sufficient to indicate the range within which the EC50 falls.
REFERENCES (1) OECD, Paris, 1981, Test Guidelines 202, Decision of the Council C(81) 30 final and updates. (2) International Standard ISO, Water Quality - Determination of inhibition of mobility of Daphnia magna Straus, ISO 6341-1989 (3) AFNOR Inhibition of mobility of Daphnia magna Straus (Cladocera - crustacea) NFT 90 301 (January 1983). (4) Verfahrensvorschlag des Umweltbundesamtes zum akuten Daphnien-Test.
und Boje, R. Ökotoxikologie, Grundlagen für die ökotoxikologische Bewertung von Umweltchemikalien nach dem Chemikaliengesetz, ecomed 1986. (5) DIN Testverfahren mit Wasserorganismen 38412 (L1) und (L11). (6) Finney, D.J.
Ther., 1949, vol. 96, 99-113. (8) Sprague, J.B.
Water Res., 1969, vol. 3, 793-821. (9) Sprague, J.B.
Appendix 1 Reconstituted water Example of a suitable dilution water (according to ISO 6341) All chemicals must be of analytical grade.
The water should be good-quality distilled water, or deionized water with a conductivity less than 5 ìScm 1.
If necessary adjust the pH with NaOH (sodium hydroxide) or HCl (hydrochloric acid).
The dilution water so prepared is set aside for about 12 hours and need not be further aerated.
The sum of the Ca and Mg ions in this solution is 2,5 mmol per litre.
The ratio of Ca:Mg ions is 4:1 and of Na:K ions is 10:1.
ALGAL INHIBITION TEST 1.
The method can be used for substances that do not interfere directly with the measurement of algal growth.
It is desirable to have, as far as possible, information on the water solubility, vapour pressure, chemical stability, dissociation constants and biodegradability of the substance before starting the test.
All concentrations of the test substance are given in weight by volume (milligrams per litre).
Potassium dichromate can be used as a reference substance, but its colour may affect the light quality and intensity available to the cells and also the spectrophotometric determinations if used.
PRINCIPLE OF THE TEST METHOD A limit test may be performed at 100 mg per litre in order to demonstrate that the EC50 is greater than this concentration.
The test solutions are incubated for a period of 72 hours, during which the cell density in each solution is measured at least every 24 hours.
The inhibition of growth in relation to a control culture is determined. 1.5.
The cell density in the control cultures should have increased by a factor of at least 16 within three days.
For substances that are: (i) poorly soluble in the test medium, or (ii) capable of forming stable emulsions or dispersions, or (iii) not stable in aqueous solutions, the initial concentration shall be taken as the concentration measured at the start of the test.
In any of these cases, further measurements must be made during the test to confirm the actual exposure concentrations or that the quality criteria have been met.
Therefore, for the purpose of demonstrating compliance with the above quality criteria, both the amount of the substance incorporated into the algal biomass and the substance in solution (or, if not technically possible measured in the water column) should be taken into account.
However, as determination of the substance concentration in the algal biomass may pose significant technical problems, compliance with the quality criteria may be demonstrated by running a test vessel at the highest substance concentration but without algae and measuring concentrations in solution (or, if not technically possible in the water column) at the beginning and at the end of the test period. 1.6.
DESCRIPTION OF THE TEST PROCEDURE 1.6.1.
Reagents 1.6.1.1.
Solutions of test substances Stock solutions of the required strength are prepared by dissolving the substance in deionized water or water according to 1.6.1.2.
Ultrasonic dispersion, organic solvents, emulsifiers or dispersants may be used as an aid to prepare stock solutions of substances with low aqueous solubility or to help to disperse these substances in the test medium.
When such auxiliary substances are used, all test concentrations should contain the same amount of auxiliary substances, and additional controls should be exposed to the same concentration of the auxiliary substance as that used in the test series.
The concentration of such auxiliaries should be minimized, but in no case should exceed 100 mg per litre in the test medium.
This pH adjustment should be made in such a way that the concentration of test substance in the stock solution is not changed to any significant extent.
The stock solutions are sterilised by membrane filtration or by autoclaving, and stored in the dark at 4 C.
Apparatus - Normal laboratory equipment, - Test flasks of suitable volume (e.g. 250 ml conical flasks are suitable when the volume of the test solution is 100 ml).
It is recommended to use, at the average level of the test solutions, a light intensity in the range 60 to 120 ìE.m 2.s 1 (35 to 70 × 1018 photons.m 2.s 1) when measured in the range 400 to 700 nm using an appropriate receptor.
For light measuring instruments calibrated in lux, an equivalent range of 6 000 to 10 000 lx is acceptable.
The light intensity could be obtained using four to seven 30 W fluorescent lamps of the universal white type (colour temperature of approximately 4 300 K), at a distance of 0,35 m from the algal culture. - Cell density measurements should be made using a direct counting method of living cells, e.g.
Initial cell density It is recommended that the initial cell density in the test cultures be approximately 104 cells/ml for Selenastrum capricornutum and Scenedesmus subspicatus.
When other species are used the biomass should be comparable.
Concentrations of test substance For the test, at least five concentrations are made up in a geometric series at a concentration ratio not exceeding 2,2.
The lowest concentration tested should have no observed effect on the growth of the algae.
The highest concentration tested should inhibit growth by at least 50 % relative to the control and, preferably, stop growth completely.
The cultures should be maintained at a temperature in the range of 21 to 25 C, controlled at ± 2 C.
The cell density in each flask is determined at least at 24, 48 and 72 hours after the start of the test.
The pH is measured at the beginning of the test and at 72 hours.
The pH of the controls should not normally deviate by more than 1,5 units during the test.
Variations to this method have been proposed (see reference (4)).
Limit test Using the procedures described in this method, a limit test may be performed at 100 mg per litre in order to demonstrate that the EC50 is greater than this concentration.
If the nature of the substance is such that a concentration of 100 mg per litre in the test water cannot be attained, the limit test should be performed at a concentration equal to the solubility of the substance (or the maximum concentration forming a stable dispersion) in the medium used (see also point 1.6.1.1).
The limit test should be performed at least in triplicate, with the same number of controls.
The percentage inhibition of the cell growth at each test substance concentration (IA) is calculated according to the formula: IA = Ac AtAc × 100 where Ac = area between the control growth curve and the horizontal line N = N0.
At = area between the growth curve at the concentration t and the horizontal line N = N0.
The EC50 is estimated from the regression line by reading off the concentration that is equivalent to a 50 % inhibition (IA = 50 %).
COMPARISON OF GROWTH RATES The average specific growth rate (ì) for exponentially growing cultures can be calculated as m = ln Nn ln N0tn t0 where t0 is the time at the beginning of the test.
Alternatively, the average specific growth rate may be derived from the slope of the regression line in a plot of ln N versus time.
The percentage inhibition of specific growth rate at each test substance concentration (Iìt) is calculated according to the formula: Imt = mc mtmc × 100 where ìc = mean control specific growth rate ìt = mean specific growth rate for the test concentration t The percentage reduction in average specific growth rate at each test substance concentration compared to the control value is plotted against the logarithm of the concentration.
The EC50 may be read from the resulting graph.
The times of measurement must be indicated, e.g.
Note: specific growth rate is a logarithmic term, and small changes in growth rate may lead to great changes in biomass.
EbC and ErC values are therefore not numerically comparable. 2.3.
REPORTING The test report shall, if possible, include the following information: - test substance: chemical identification data; - test organisms: origin, laboratory culture, strain number, method of cultivation; - test conditions: - date of the start and the end of the test and its duration, - temperature, - composition of medium, - culturing apparatus, - pH of solutions at the start and end of the test (an explanation should be provided if pH deviations of more than 1,5 unit are observed), - vehicle and method used for solubilizing the test substance and concentration of the vehicle in the test solutions, - light intensity and quality, - concentrations tested (measured or nominal). - results: - cell density for each flask at each measuring point and method for measuring cell density, - mean values of cell density, - growth curves, - graphical presentation of the concentration effect relationship, - EC values and method of calculation, - NOEC, - other observed effects. 4.
Suitable methods should be used to ensure that the algal cultures are not infected with bacteria (ISO 4833).
For solid medium, 0,8 % of agar is added.
Sterilisation by autoclaving may lead to a loss of NH3.
The stock cultures are grown in conical flasks containing the appropriate medium (volume about 100 ml).
When the algae are incubated at 20 C with continuous illumination, a weekly transfer is required.
During transfer an amount of 'old' culture is transferred with sterile pipettes into a flask of fresh medium, so that with the fast-growing species the initial concentration is about 100 times smaller than in the old culture.
Appendix 2 The ISO 8692 - Water quality - Fresh water algal growth inhibition test with Scenedesmus subspicatus andSelenastrum capricornutum reports the following results for an inter-laboratory test among 16 laboratories, testing potassium dichromate : %gt%TABLE%gt% C.4.
GENERAL ONSIDERATIONS I.1.
Items specific for individual methods are given in Parts II to VII.
For those chemicals which are poorly soluble in water, volatile or adsorbing, suitable methods are indicated in Table 1.
In the respirometric tests, nitrogen-containing compounds may affect the oxygen uptake because of nitrification (see Annexes II and V).
PRINCIPLE OF THE TEST METHODS A solution, or suspension, of the test substance in a mineral medium is inoculated and incubated under aerobic conditions in the dark or in diffuse light.
The amount of DOC in the test solution due to the inoculum should be kept as low as possible compared to the amount of DOC due to the test substance.
DOC is sometimes measured in addition to another parameter but this is usually done only at the beginning and the end of the test.
QUALITY CRITERIA I.5.1.
Reproducibility Because of the nature of biodegradation and of the mixed bacterial populations used as inocula, determinations should be carried out at least in duplicate.
It is common experience that the larger the concentration of micro-organisms initially added to the test medium, the smaller will be the variation between replicates.
Validity of the test A test is considered valid if the difference of extremes of replicate values of the removal of test chemical at the plateau, at the end of the test or at the end of the 10-day window, as appropriate, is less than 20 % and if the percentage degradation of the reference substance has reached the level for ready biodegradability by 14 days.
Apparatus and other experimental conditions pertaining specifically to an individual test are described later under the heading for that test. %gt%TABLE%gt% I.6.1.
It must contain no more than 10 % of the organic carbon content introduced by the test material.
Stock solutions of mineral components To make up the test solutions, stock solutions of appropriate concentrations of mineral components are made up.
The following stock solutions may be used (with different dilution factors) for the methods DOC Die-Away, Modified OECD Screening, CO2 Evolution, Manometric Respirometry, Closed Bottle test.
The dilution factors and, for the MITI test, the specific preparation of the mineral medium are given under the headings of the specific tests.
Stock solutions of chemicals For example, dissolve 1-10 g, as appropriate, of test or reference chemical in deionized water and make up to 1 litre when the solubility exceeds 1 g/l.
Otherwise, prepare stock solutions in the mineral medium or add the chemical direct to the mineral medium.
The sludge may be washed in the mineral medium.
Suspend the concentrated sludge in mineral medium to yield a concentration of 3-5 g suspended solids/l and aerate until required.
at medium speed.
Up to 100 ml of this type of inoculum may be used per litre of medium.
Pre-conditioning consists of aerating activated sludge in mineral medium or secondary effluent for 5-7 days at the test temperature.
Abiotic controls When required, check for the possible abiotic degradation of the test substance by determining the removal of DOC, oxygen uptake or carbon dioxide evolution in sterile controls containing no inoculum.
Sterilize by filtration through a membrane (0,2-0,45 micrometre) or by the addition of a suitable toxic substance at an appropriate concentration.
DATA AND EVALUATION In the calculation of Dt, percentage degradation, the mean values of the duplicate measurement of the parameter in both test vessels and inoculum blank are used.
In respirometric tests nitrogen-containing compounds may affect the oxygen uptake because of nitrification (see Annexes II and V).
Degradation measured by means of DOC determination The percentage degradation Dt at each time a sample was taken should be calculated separately for the flasks containing test substance using mean values of duplicate DOC measurements in order that the validity of the test can be assessed (see I.5.2.).
Degradation measured by means of specific analysis When specific analytical data are available, calculate primary biodegradation from: Dt = Sb SaSb × 100 where: Dt = % degradation at time t, normally 28 days, Sa = residual amount of test substance in inoculated medium at end of test (mg), Sb = residual amount of test substance in the blank test with water/medium to which only the test substance was added (mg).
DOC DIE-AWAY TEST (Method C.4-A) II.1.
PRINCIPLE OF THE METHOD A measured volume of inoculated mineral medium containing a known concentration of the test substance (10-40 mg DOC/l) as the nominal sole source of organic carbon is aerated in the dark or diffused light at 22 ± 2 C.
Degradation is followed by DOC analysis at frequent intervals over a 28-day period.
The degree of primary biodegradation may also be calculated from supplemental chemical analysis made at the beginning and end of incubation.
Preparation of mineral medium For the preparation of the stock solutions, see I.6.2.
Mix 10 ml of solution (a) with 800 ml dilution water, add 1 ml of solutions (b) to (d) and make up to 1 l with dilution water.
See I.6.4., I.6.4.1., I.6.4.2.
Preparation of flasks As an example, introduce 800 ml portions of mineral medium into 2 l conical flasks and add sufficient volumes of stock solutions of the test and reference substances to separate flasks to give a concentration of chemical equivalent to 10-40 mg DOC/l.
Check the pH values and adjust, if necessary, to 7,4.
Inoculate the flasks with activated sludge or other source of inocula (see I.6.4.), to give a final concentration not greater than 30 mg suspended solids/l.
Performance of the test Throughout the test, determine the concentrations of DOC in each flask in duplicate at known time intervals, sufficiently frequently to be able to determine the start of the 10-day window and the percentage removal at the end of the 10-day window.
Before sampling make good evaporation losses from the flasks by adding dilution water (I.6.1) in the required amount if necessary.
Treatment of results Calculate the percentage degradation at time t as given under I.7.1. (DOC determination) and, optionally, under 1.7.2. (specific analysis).
Reporting See I.8.
DATA SHEET An example of a data sheet is given hereafter.
DATE AT START OF TEST 3.
ABIOTIC CONTROL (optional) %gt%TABLE%gt% % abiotic degradation = Cs(o) Cs(t)Cs(o) × 100 8.
SPECIFIC CHEMICAL ANALYSIS (optional) %gt%TABLE%gt% PART III.
MODIFIED OECD SCREENING TEST (Method C.4-B) III.1.
PRINCIPLE OF THE METHOD A measured volume of mineral medium containing a known concentration of the test substance (10-40 mg DOC/litre) as the nominal sole source of organic carbon is inoculated with 0,5 ml effluent per litre of medium.
Degradation is followed by DOC analysis at frequent intervals over a 28-day period.
The degree of biodegradation is calculated by expressing the concentration of DOC removed (corrected for that in the blank inoculum control) as a percentage of the concentration initially present.
The degree of primary biodegradation may also be calculated from supplemental chemical analysis made at the beginning and end of incubation.
DESCRIPTION OF THE METHOD III.2.1.
Preparation of mineral medium For the preparation of the stock solutions, see I.6.2.
Mix 10 ml of solution (a) with 80 ml dilution water, add 1 ml of solutions (b) to (d) and make up to 1 litre with dilution water.
This method uses only 0,5 ml effluent/litre as inoculum and therefore the medium may need to be fortified with trace elements and growth factors.
Preparation of flasks As an example, introduce 800 ml portions of mineral medium into 2-litre conical flasks and add sufficient volumes of stock solutions of the test and reference substances to separate flasks to give a concentration of chemical equivalent to 10-40 mg DOC/litre.
Inoculate the flasks with sewage effluent at 0,5 ml/litre (see I.6.4.2.).
Make up the volumes in all flasks to 1 litre with mineral medium and, after mixing, take a sample from each flask to determine the initial concentration of DOC (see Annex II.4).
Performance of the test Throughout the test, determine the concentrations of DOC in each flask in duplicate at known time intervals, sufficiently frequently to be able to determine the start of the 10-day window and the percentage removal at the end of the 10-day window.
Before sampling make good evaporation losses from the flasks by adding dilution water (I.6.1) in the required amount if necessary.
Mix the culture medium thoroughly before withdrawing a sample and ensure that material adhering to the walls of the vessels is dissolved or suspended before sampling.
Membrane-filter or centrifuge (see Annex II.4) immediately after the sample has been taken.
Validity of results See I.5.2.
Reporting See I.8.
DATA SHEET An example of a data sheet is given hereafter.
DATE AT START OF TEST 3.
TEST SUBSTANCE Name: Stock solution concentration: mg/litre as chemical Initial concentration in medium, to: mg/litre as chemical 4.
INOCULUM Source: Treatment given: Pre-conditioning, if any: Concentration of suspended solids in reaction mixture: mg/l 5.
ABIOTIC CONTROL (optional) %gt%TABLE%gt% % abiotic degradation = Cs(o) Cs(t)Cs(o) × 100 8.
SPECIFIC CHEMICAL ANALYSIS (optional) %gt%TABLE%gt% PART IV.
CO2 EVOLUTION TEST (Method C.4-C) IV.1.
PRINCIPLE OF THE METHOD A measured volume of inoculated mineral medium containing a known concentration of the test chemical (10-20 mg DOC or TOC/l) as the nominal sole source of organic carbon is aerated by the passage of carbon dioxide-free air at a controlled rate in the dark or in diffuse light.
Degradation is followed over 28 days by determining the carbon dioxide produced, which is trapped in barium or sodium hydroxide and which is measured by titration of the residual hydroxide or as inorganic carbon.
The amount of carbon dioxide produced from the test chemical (corrected for that derived from the blank inoculum) is expressed as a percentage of ThCO2.
The degree of biodegradation may also be calculated from supplemental DOC analysis made at the beginning and end of incubation.
DESCRIPTION OF THE METHOD IV.2.1.
Apparatus (a) Flasks, 2-5 litres, each fitted with an aeration tube reaching nearly the bottom of the vessel and an outlet; (b) Magnetic stirrers, when assessing poorly soluble chemicals; (c) Gas-absorption bottles; (d) Device for controlling and measuring airflow; (e) Apparatus for carbon dioxide scrubbing, for preparation of air which is free from carbon dioxide; alternatively, a mixture of CO2-free oxygen and CO2-free nitrogen, from gas cylinders, in the correct proportions (20 % O2:80 % N2) may be used; (f) Device for determination of carbon dioxide, either titrimetrically or by some form of inorganic carbon analyser; (g) Membrane filtration device (optional); (h) DOC analyser (optional).
Preparation of mineral medium For the preparation of the stock solutions, see I.6.2.
Mix 10 ml of solution (a) with 800 ml dilution water, add 1 ml of solutions (b) to (d) and make up to 1 l with dilution water.
See I.6.4., I.6.4.1., I.6.4.2.
Other sources of inoculum may be used (see I.6.4.2.).
Add the test material and reference substance, separately, as known volume of stock solutions, to replicate flasks to yield concentrations, contributed by the added chemicals, of 10 to 20 mg DOC or TOC/l; leave some flasks without addition of chemicals as inoculum controls.
Add poorly soluble test substances directly to the flasks on a weight or volume basis or handle as described in Annex III.
Make up the volumes of suspensions in all flasks to 3 l by the addition of mineral medium previously aerated with CO2-free air.
If barium hydroxide is used, connect three absorption bottles, each containing 100 ml of 0,0125 M barium hydroxide solution, in series to each 5-litre flask.
Add 200 ml 0,05 M sodium hydroxide to each bottle, which is sufficient to absorb the total quantity of carbon dioxide evolved when the test chemical is completely degraded.
Performance of the test Start the test by bubbling CO2-free air through the suspensions at a rate of 30-100 ml/min.
Move the remaining absorbers one place closer to the flask and place a new absorber containing 100 ml fresh 0,0125 M barium hydroxide at the far end of the series.
Analyse the contents of the second trap only at the end of the test to correct for any carry over of carbon dioxide.
Treatment of results The amount of CO2 trapped in an absorber when titrated is given by: mgCO2 = (100 × CB 0,5 × V × CA) × 44 where: V = volume of HCl used for titration of the 100 ml in the absorber (ml), CB = concentration of the barium hydroxide solution (M), CA = concentration of the hydrochloric acid solution (M), if CB is 0,0125 M and CA is 0,05 M, the titration for 100 ml barium hydroxide is 50 ml and the weight of CO2 is given by: 0.052 × 44 × ml HCl titrated = 1.1 × ml HCl Thus, in this case, to convert volume of HCl titrated to mg CO2produced the factor is 1,1.
Calculate the weights of CO2 produced from the inoculum alone and from the inoculum plus test chemical using the respective titration values and the difference is the weight of CO2 produced from the test chemical alone.
The percentage biodegradation is calculated from: % degradation = ThCO2 × mg test chemical addedmg CO2 produced × 100 or, % degradation = mg TOC added in test × 3.67mg CO2 produced × 100 3,67 being the conversion factor (44/12) for carbon to carbon dioxide.
For sodium hydroxide absorbers, calculate the amount of carbon dioxide produced, expressed as IC (mg), by multiplying the concentration of IC in the absorbent by the volume of the absorbent.
Calculate the percentage degradation from: % of ThCO2 = mg IC from test flask mg IC from blankmg TOC added as test chemical × 100 Calculate DOC removals (optional) as described under I.7.
Validity of results The IC content of the test chemical suspension in the mineral medium at the beginning of the test must be less than 5 % of the TC, and the total CO2 evolution in the inoculum blank at the end of the test should not normally exceed 40 mg/l medium.
See also I.5.2.
Reporting See I.8.
DATA SHEET An example of a data sheet is given hereafter.
DATE AT START OF TEST 3.
CARBON DIOXIDE PRODUCTION AND DEGRADABILITY Method: Ba(OH)2/NaOH/other %gt%TABLE%gt% 6.
CARBON ANALYSIS (optional) Carbon analyser: %gt%TABLE%gt% % DOC removed = 1 Ct Cb(t) CoCb(o) × 100 7.
PRINCIPLE OF THE METHOD A measured volume of inoculated mineral medium, containing a known concentration of test chemical (100 mg/litre of the test substance, to give at least 50-100 mg ThOD/litre) as the nominal sole source of organic carbon, is stirred in a closed flask at a constant temperature (± 1 C or closer) for up to 28 days.
The consumption of oxygen is determined either by measuring the quantity of oxygen (produced electrolytically) required to maintain constant gas volume in the respirometer flask, or from the change in volume or pressure (or a combination of the two) in the apparatus.
Evolved carbon dioxide is absorbed in a solution of potassium hydroxide or another suitable absorbent.
Optionally, primary biodegradation may also be calculated from supplemental specific analysis made at the beginning and end of incubation, and ultimate biodegradation by DOC analysis.
DESCRIPTION OF THE METHOD V.2.1.
Mix 10 ml of solution (a) with 800 ml dilution water, add 1 ml of solutions (b) to (d) and make up to 1 litre with dilution water.
See I.6.4., I.6.4.1., I.6.4.2.
Preparation of flasks Prepare solutions of the test and reference chemicals, in separate batches, in mineral medium equivalent to a concentration, normally, of 100 mg chemical/litre (giving at least 50-100 mg ThOD/litre), using stock solutions.
If the toxicity of the test chemical is to be determined, prepare a further solution in mineral medium containing both test and reference chemicals at the same concentrations as in the individual solutions.
If the test chemical is poorly soluble, add it directly at this stage on a weight or volume basis or handle it as described in Annex III.
Performance of the test Allow the vessels to reach the desired temperature and inoculate appropriate vessels with prepared activated sludge or other source of inoculum to give a concentration of suspended solids not greater than 30 mg/litre.
When oxygen is taken up by N-containing test substance, determine the increase in concentration of nitrite and nitrate over 28 days and calculate the correction for the oxygen consumed by nitrification (Annex V).
For test substances containing nitrogen, use the appropriate ThOD (NH4 or NO3) according to what is known or expected about the occurrence of nitrification (Annex II.2).
If nitrification occurs but is not complete, calculate a correction for the oxygen consumed by nitrification from the changes in concentration of nitrite and nitrate (Annex V).
When optional determinations of organic carbon and/or specific chemical are made, calculate the percentage degradation, as described under I.7.
Values higher than 60 mg/litre require critical examination of the data and experimental techniques.
See also I.5.2.
Reporting See I.8.
DATA SHEET An example of a data sheet is given hereafter.
DATE AT START OF TEST 3.
OXYGEN UPTAKE: BIODEGRADABILITY %gt%TABLE%gt% 6.
CORRECTION FOR NITRIFICATION (see Annex V) %gt%TABLE%gt% 7.
CARBON ANALYSIS (optional) Carbon analyser: %gt%TABLE%gt% % DOC removed = 1 Ct Cblt Co Cblo × 100 8.
CLOSED BOTTLE TEST (Method C.4-E) VI.1.
Degradation is followed by analysis of dissolved oxygen over a 28-day period.
The amount of oxygen taken up by the test chemical, corrected for uptake by the blank inoculum run in parallel, is expressed as a percentage of ThOD or COD.
DESCRIPTION OF THE METHOD VI.2.1.
Preparation of mineral medium For the preparation of the stock solutions, see I.6.2.
Mix 1 (one) ml of solution (a) to (d) and make up to 1 litre with dilution water.
Preparation of flasks Strongly aerate mineral medium for at least 20 min.
Generally, the medium is ready for use after standing for 20 h, at the test temperature.
Assemble a sufficient number of BOD bottles, including inoculum blanks, to allow at least duplicate measurements of oxygen consumption to be made at the desired test intervals, for example, after 0, 7, 14, 21 and 28 days.
Add fully aerated mineral medium to large bottles so that they are about one-third full.
Then add sufficient of the stock solutions of the test chemical and reference chemical to separate large bottles so that the final concentration of the chemicals is normally not greater than 10 mg/litre.
Add no chemicals to the blank control medium contained in a further large bottle.
In order to ensure that the inoculum activity is not limited, the concentration of dissolved oxygen must not fall below 0,5 mg/litre in the BOD bottles.
In some cases, it would be advisable to run parallel series of test chemical at two different concentrations, for example, 2 and 5 mg/litre.
Prepare another large bottle to contain aerated mineral medium (to about one-third of its volume) plus test chemical and reference chemical at final concentrations normally the same as those in the other large bottles.
Number of flasks in a typical run In a typical run the following bottles are used: at least 10 containing test chemical and inoculum (test suspension), at least 10 containing only inoculum (inoculum blank), at least 10 containing reference chemical and inoculum (procedure control), and, when necessary, 6 bottles containing test chemical, reference chemical and inoculum (toxicity control).
Withdraw at least duplicate bottles of all series for dissolved oxygen analysis at time intervals (at least weekly) over the 28 days incubation.
From the increase in concentration of nitrite and nitrate, calculate the oxygen used (see Annex V).
Treatment of results First calculate the BOD exerted after each time period by subtracting the oxygen depletion (mg O2/litre) of the inoculum blank from that exhibited by the test chemical.
If nitrification occurs but is not complete, calculate a correction for the oxygen consumed by nitrification from the changes in concentration of nitrite and nitrate (Annex V).
Validity of results Oxygen depletion in the inoculum blank should not exceed 1,5 mg dissolved oxygen/litre after 28 days.
The residual concentration of oxygen in the test bottles should not fall below 0,5 mg/litre at any time.
Reporting See I.8.
DATA SHEET An example of a data sheet is given hereafter.
DATE AT START OF TEST 3.
DO DETERMINATION Method: Winkler/electrode %gt%TABLE%gt% 6.
CORRECTION FOR NITRIFICATION (see Annex V) %gt%TABLE%gt% 7.
DO DEPLETION: % DEGRADATION %gt%TABLE%gt% mto = value in the test flask at time 0 mtx = value in the test flask at time x mbo = mean blank value at time 0 mbx = mean blank value at time x Apply also correction for nitrification from iii+vi in section 6. 8.
BLANK DO DEPLETIONS Oxygen consumption by blank: (mbo mb28) mg/litre.
This consumption is important for the validity of the test.
PRINCIPLE OF THE METHOD The oxygen uptake by a stirred solution, or suspension, of the test chemical in a mineral medium, inoculated with specially grown, unadapted micro-organisms, is measured automatically over a period of 28 days in a darkened, enclosed respirometer at 25 ± 1 C.
The percentage of primary biodegradability is also calculated from supplemental specific chemical analysis made at the beginning and end of incubation and, optionally, by DOC analysis.
DESCRIPTION OF THE METHOD VII.2.1.
Preparation of mineral medium Prepare the following stock solutions, using analytical grade reagents and water (I.6.1.): (a) Monopotassium dihydrogen ortho phosphate, KH2PO4 8,50 g Dipotassium monohydrogen ortho phosphate, K2HPO4 21,75 g Disodium monohydrogen ortho phosphate dodecahydrate Na2HPO4 12 H2O 44,60 g Ammonium chloride, NH4Cl 1,70 g Dissolve in water and make up to 1 litre The pH value of the solution should be 7,2 (b) Magnesium sulphate heptahydrate, MgSO4 7 H2O 22,50 g Dissolve in water and make up to 1 litre (c) Calcium chloride anhydrous, CaCl2 27,50 g Dissolve in water and make up to 1 litre (d) Iron (III) chloride hexahydrate, FeCl3 6 H2O 0,25 g Dissolve in water and make up to 1 litre Take 3 ml of each solution (a), (b), (c) and (d) and make up to 1 litre.
Use an appropriate volume of the filtered supernatant to fill a fill-and-draw activated sludge vessel and aerate the liquid for about 23 1/2 h.
The sludge unit must be operated according to good practice: effluents should be clear, temperature should be kept at 25 ± 2 C, pH should be 7 ± 1, sludge should settle well, sufficient aeration to keep the mixture aerobic at all times, protozoa should be present and the activity of the sludge should be tested against a reference substance at least every three months.
Do not use sludge as inoculum until after at least one month's operation, but not after more than four months.
N inoculum is added to flask nr. 1 which serves as an abiotic control.
Read the oxygen uptakes for the six flasks directly by an appropriate method, for example, from the six-point chart recorder, which produces a BOD curve.
At the end of incubation, normally 28 days, measure the pH of the contents of the flasks and determine the concentration of the residual test chemical and any intermediate and, in the case of water soluble substance, the concentration of DOC (Annex II.4).
This yields the BOD expressed as mg oxygen/mg test chemical, that is: BOD = mg O2 uptake by test chemical mg O2 uptake by blankmg test chemical in flask = mg O2/mg test chemical.
Use the appropriate ThOD (ThODNH4 or ThODNO3) according to whether nitrification is absent or complete (Annex II.2).
Calculate the percentage primary biodegradation from loss of specific (parent) chemical (see I.7,2).
Dt = Sb SaSb × 100 % If there has been a loss of test chemical in the flask nr. 1 measuring physico-chemical removal, report this and use the concentration of test chemical (Sb) after 28 days in this flask to calculate the percentage biodegradation.
When determinations of DOC are made (optional), calculate the percentage ultimate biodegradation from: Dt = 1 Ct Cbt Co Cbo × 100% as described under point I.7.1.
If there has been a loss of DOC in the flask nr. 1, measuring physico-chemical removal, use the DOC concentration in this flask to calculate the percentage biodegradation.
Values higher than 60 mg/l require critical examination of the data and experimental techniques.
See also I.5.2.
If the percentage degradation of aniline calculated from the oxygen consumption does not exceed 40 % after 7 days and 65 % after 14 days, the test is regarded as invalid.
Reporting See I.8.
DATA SHEET An example of a data sheet is given below.
MITI (I) TEST 1.
DATE AT START OF TEST 3.
INOCULUM Sludge sampling sites: 1) ... 2) ... 3) ... 4) ... 5) ... 6) ... 7) ... 8) ... 9) ... 10) ...
OXYGEN UPTAKE: BIODEGRADABILITY Type of respirometer used: %gt%TABLE%gt% 6.
CARBON ANALYSIS (optional): Carbon analyser: %gt%TABLE%gt% % DOC removed: a (b c)a × 100 7.
SPECIFIC CHEMICAL ANALYTICAL DATA %gt%TABLE%gt% % degradation = Sb SaSb × 100 Calculate % degradation for flasks a1, a2 and a3 respectively 8.
ANNEX I ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS DO: Dissolved oxygen (mg/l) is the concentration of oxygen dissolved in an aqueous sample.
BOD: Biochemical oxygen demand (g) is the amount of oxygen consumed by micro-organisms when metabolizing a test compound; also expressed as g oxygen uptake per g test compound. (See method C.5).
Primary Biodegradation: is the alteration in the chemical structure of a substance, brought about by biological action, resulting in the loss of specific property of that substance.
Lag time is the time from inoculation, in a die-away test, until the degradation percentage has increased to at least 10 %.
Carbon Content The carbon content is calculated from the known elemental composition or determined by elemental analysis of the test substance. 2.
Theoretical oxygen demand (ThOD) The theoretical oxygen demand (ThOD) may be calculated if the elemental composition is known or determined by elemental analysis.
Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) The Chemical oxygen demand (COD) is determined according to method C.6. 4.
Dissolved Organic Carbon (DOC) Dissolved organic carbon (DOC) is by definition the organic carbon of any chemical or mixture in water passing through a 0,45 micrometre filter.
The first 20 ml (amount can be reduced when using small filters) of the filtrate are discarded.
The DOC-concentration is determined by means of an organic carbon analyser which is capable of accurately measuring a carbon concentration equivalent or lower than 10 % of the initial DOC-concentration used in the test.
Filtered samples which cannot be analysed on the same working day can be preserved by storage in a refrigerator at 2-4 C for 48 h, or below 18 C for longer periods.
Centrifugation at 40 000 m.sec 2 (4 000 g) for 15 min may be used for differentiation of TOC versus DOC instead of filtration.
The method is not reliable at initial concentration of TABLE POSITION%gt% 0,05 M borax + 0,1 N NaOH %gt%TABLE%gt%
