For the purpose of this Directive, %quot%hot water%quot% shall be water the temperature of which exceeds 30 ºC but does not exceed 90 ºC.
Article 2 Hot-water meters to which the EEC marks and signs may be affixed are described in the Annex to this Directive.
Article 3 No Member State may refuse, prohibit or restrict the placing on the market or entry into service of hot-water meters bearing the EEC pattern approval sign and the EEC initial verification mark, on the grounds of their metrological properties.
At the nominal flowrate, Qn, the meter must be able to function in normal use, i.e., in continuous and intermittent operating conditions, without the maximum permissible errors being exceeded. 1.5.
The minimum value for this pressure is 10 bar. 3.4.
The actual or apparent height of the digits must not be less than 4 mm.
Indicators with pointers (types (a) and (c)) must rotate in a clockwise direction.
Data such as the following must be shown near each part of the scale : × 1 000 - × 100 - × 10 - × 1 - × 0 71 - × 0 701 - × 0 7001.
Number of figures and values of the verification scale interval It must be possible for the indicating device to record a volume, expressed in cubic metres, corresponding to at least 1 999 hours' operation at the nominal flowrate, without returning to zero.
Identification inscriptions The meter must bear, in a legible and indelible manner, either separately or grouped together on the meter casing, on the indicator dial or on the information plate, the following items of information: (a) the manufacturer's name or trade name or his trademark; (b) the metrological class and nominal flowrate Qn in cubic metres per hour; (c) the year of manufacture and the individual serial number; (d) one or two arrows showing the direction of flow; (e) the EEC pattern approval sign; (f) the maximum operating pressure in bar, if this can exceed 10 bar; (g) the maximum operating temperature in the form : 90 ºC; (h) the letter %quot%V%quot% or %quot%H%quot% if the meter can operate properly only in the vertical (V) or horizontal (H) position. 4.2.
