Article 2 For the purposes of this Directive: 1. %quot%passenger car%quot% means any motor vehicle of category M1, as defined in Annex II to Directive 70/156/EEC(6) and which falls under the scope of Directive 80/1268/EEC.
Article 3 The Member States shall ensure that a label on fuel economy and CO2 emissions, which is in accordance with the requirements described in Annex I, is attached to or displayed, in a clearly visible manner, near each new passenger car model at the point of sale.
Article 4 Without prejudice to the establishment by the Commission of an Internet guide at Community level, the Member States shall ensure that a guide on fuel economy and CO2 emissions is produced in consultation with manufacturers on at least an annual basis in accordance with the requirements of Annex II.
The authority or authorities referred to in Article 8 may cooperate in the preparation of the guide.
Article 5 The Member States shall ensure that, for each make of car, a poster (or alternatively, a display) is exhibited with a list of the official fuel consumption data and the official specific CO2 emissions data of all new passenger car models displayed or offered for sale or lease at or through that point of sale.
This data shall be displayed in a prominent position and in accordance with the format in Annex III.
Article 6 The Member States shall ensure that all promotional literature contains the official fuel consumption and the official specific CO2 emission data of the passenger car models to which it refers in accordance with the requirements of Annex IV.
Article 8 The Member States shall notify the Commission of the competent authority or authorities responsible for the implementation and functioning of the consumer information scheme described in this Directive.
Article 9 Any amendments which are necessary in order to adapt the Annexes to this Directive shall be adopted by the Commission in accordance with the procedure set out in Article 10 and following consultation with consumer organisations and other interested parties.
In order to assist this adaptation process, each Member State shall transmit to the Commission, by 31 December 2003, a report on the effectiveness of the provisions of this Directive, covering the period from 18 January 2001 until 31 December 2002.
The format of this report shall be established in accordance with the procedure set out in Article 10 not later than 18 January 2001.
Furthermore, the Commission shall, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 10, take measures aiming at: (a) further specifying the format of the label referred to in Article 3 by amending Annex I; (b) further specifying the requirements concerning the guide referred to in Article 4 with a view to classifying new car models thus enabling a listing of the models according to CO2 emissions and fuel consumption in specified classes including a class for a listing of the most fuel efficient new car models; (c) establishing recommendations in order to enable the application of the principles of the provisions on promotional literature referred to in the first paragraph of Article 6 to other media and material.
Article 10 Committee The Commission shall be assisted by a committee composed of the representatives of the Member States and chaired by a representative of the Commission.
Article 11 Member States shall determine the penalties applicable to breaches of the national provisions adopted pursuant to this Directive.
Member States shall bring into force the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with this Directive by 18 January 2001.
Article 13 This Directive shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Article 14 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 13 December 1999.
FONTAINE For the Council The President S.
The official specific emissions of CO2 are quoted to the nearest whole number in grams per kilometre (g/km).
The official specific emissions of CO2 are quoted to the nearest whole number in grams per kilometre (g/km).
The official specific emissions of CO2 are quoted to the nearest whole number in grams per kilometre (g/km).
Such values may be expressed in different units (gallons and miles) to the extent compatible with the provisions of Directive 80/181/EEC.
Fuel consumption is expressed in either litres per 100 kilometers (l/100 km), kilometers per litre (km/l) or an appropriate combination of these.
Such values may be expressed in different units (gallons and miles) to the extent compatible with the provisions of Directive 80/181/EEC.
