2006/683/EC,Euratom: Council Decision of 15%nbsp%September 2006 adopting the Council's Rules of Procedure Council Decision of 15 September 2006 adopting the Council's Rules of Procedure (2006/683/EC, Euratom) THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular Article 207(3), first subparagraph, thereof, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Atomic Energy Community, and in particular Article 121(3) thereof, Having regard to the Treaty on European Union, and in particular Articles 28(1) and 41(1) thereof, Whereas: (1) The European Council, meeting on 15 and 16 June 2006, underlined that with a view to increasing the confidence of citizens in the European Union, it is important to enable them to acquire first hand insight into its activities, notably through further increasing openness and transparency.
HAS DECIDED AS FOLLOWS: Article 1 The Rules of Procedure of the Council of 22 March 2004 [1] shall be replaced by the following: " ‘RULES OF PROCEDURE OF THE COUNCIL Article 1 Notice and venue of meetings 1.
During the months of April, June and October the Council shall hold its meetings in Luxembourg [3].
The Council in its General Affairs and External Relations configuration (hereinafter referred to as General Affairs and External Relations Council), convened in a meeting as referred to in paragraph 2(a), shall fix the list of these configurations, which is set out in Annex I. 2.
For the purpose of preparing the meetings of the European Council, the General Affairs and External Relations Council convened in a meeting as referred to in paragraph (2)(a) shall: (a) draw up an annotated draft agenda on a proposal by the Presidency at least four weeks before the meeting of the European Council; (b) hold a final preparatory meeting on the eve of the European Council meeting and approve the agenda.
Contributions to the proceedings of the European Council by other Council configurations shall be forwarded to the General Affairs and External Relations Council, convened in a meeting as referred to in paragraph (2)(a), at the latest two weeks before the meeting of the European Council.
The measures necessary for the practical organisation of the European Council's proceedings shall be taken by the Presidency in liaison with the General Secretariat, in accordance with the rules on which the European Council itself has agreed. 4.
Article 3 [5] Agenda 1.
The agenda shall be sent to the other members of the Council and to the Commission at least 14 days before the beginning of the meeting. 2.
The provisional agenda shall contain the items in respect of which a request for inclusion on the agenda, together with any documents relating thereto, has been received by the General Secretariat from a member of the Council or from the Commission at least 16 days before the beginning of that meeting.
Items relating to the adoption of an act or a common position on a legislative proposal or a proposal for a measure to be adopted under Title VI of the Treaty on European Union (hereinafter referred to as the EU Treaty) shall not be placed on the provisional agenda for a decision until the six-week period provided for in point 3 of the Protocol on the role of national parliaments in the European Union has elapsed.
The Council may unanimously derogate from the six-week period where the entry of an item is subject to the exception on grounds of urgency provided for in point 3 of that Protocol. 4.
Article 4 Representation of a Council member unable to attend Subject to the provisions of Article 11 on the delegation of voting rights, a member of the Council who is prevented from attending a meeting may arrange to be represented.
Article 5 Meetings 1.
Meetings of the Council shall not be public except in the cases referred to in Article 8. 2.
Article 6 Professional secrecy and production of documents in legal proceedings 1.
Without prejudice to Articles 8 and 9 and to provisions on public access to documents, the deliberations of the Council shall be covered by the obligation of professional secrecy, except in so far as the Council decides otherwise. 2.
Article 7 Cases where the Council acts in its legislative capacity The Council acts in its legislative capacity within the meaning of the second subparagraph of Article 207(3) of the EC Treaty when it adopts rules which are legally binding in or for the Member States, by means of regulations, directives, framework decisions or decisions, on the basis of the relevant provisions of the Treaties, with the exception of discussions leading to the adoption of internal measures, administrative or budgetary acts, acts concerning interinstitutional or international relations or non-binding acts (such as conclusions, recommendations or resolutions).
Article 8 Council deliberations open to the public and public debates 1.
Council deliberations on legislative acts to be adopted in accordance with the codecision procedure under Article 251 of the EC Treaty shall be open to the public as follows: (a) the presentation, if any, by the Commission of its legislative proposals and the ensuing deliberation in the Council shall be open to the public; (b) the vote on such legislative acts shall be open to the public, as well as the final Council deliberations leading to that vote and the explanations of voting accompanying it; (c) all other Council deliberations on such legislative acts shall be open to the public, unless, on a case by case basis, the Council or Coreper decides otherwise with regard to a given deliberation. 2.
On a decision taken by the Council or by Coreper, acting by a qualified majority, the Council shall hold public debates on important issues affecting the interests of the European Union and its citizens.
The General Affairs and External Relations Council convened in a meeting as referred to in Article 2(2)(a) shall hold a public policy debate on the Council's 18-month programme.
Article 9 Making public votes, explanations of votes and minutes 1.
In addition to cases where Council deliberations are open to the public under Article 8(1), where the Council acts in its legislative capacity within the meaning of Article 7, the results of votes and explanations of votes by Council members, as well as the statements in the Council minutes and the items in those minutes relating to the adoption of legislative acts, shall be made public.
The same rule shall apply for: (a) results of votes and explanations of votes, as well as the statements in the Council minutes and the items in those minutes relating to the adoption of a common position pursuant to Article 251 or Article 252 of the EC Treaty; (b) results of votes and explanations of votes by members of the Council or their representatives on the Conciliation Committee set up by Article 251 of the EC Treaty, as well as the statements in the Council minutes and the items in those minutes relating to the Conciliation Committee meeting; (c) results of votes and explanations of votes, as well as the statements in the Council minutes and the items in those minutes relating to the establishment by the Council of a convention on the basis of Title VI of the EU Treaty. 2.
Moreover, the results of votes shall be made public: (a) when the Council acts pursuant to Title V of the EU Treaty, by a unanimous Council or Coreper decision taken at the request of one of their members; (b) when the Council adopts a common position within the meaning of Title VI of the EU Treaty, by a unanimous Council or Coreper decision taken at the request of one of their members; (c) in other cases, by Council or Coreper decision taken at the request of one of their members.
Statements entered in the Council minutes and items in those minutes relating to the adoption of the acts referred to in points (a), (b) and (c) of the first subparagraph shall be made public by Council or Coreper decision taken at the request of one of their members. 3.
Article 10 Public access to Council documents The specific provisions regarding public access to Council documents are set out in Annex II.
Article 11 Voting arrangements and quorum 1.
The members of the Council shall vote in the order of the Member States laid down in Article 203 of the EC Treaty and in Article 116 of the Treaty establishing the European Atomic Energy Community (hereinafter referred to as the Euratom Treaty), beginning with the member who, according to that order, follows the member holding the office of President. 3.
Where a vote is taken, any member of the Council may also act on behalf of not more than one other member [6]. 4.
Article 12 Ordinary written procedure and silence procedure 1.
The minutes shall as a general rule indicate in respect of each item on the agenda: - the documents submitted to the Council, - the decisions taken or the conclusions reached by the Council, - the statements made by the Council and those whose entry has been requested by a member of the Council or the Commission. 2.
The draft minutes shall be drawn up by the General Secretariat within 15 days and submitted to the Council or to Coreper for approval. 3.
These requests may be made in Coreper.
Article 14 Deliberations and decisions on the basis of documents and drafts drawn up in the languages provided for by the language rules in force 1.
Any member of the Council may oppose discussion if the texts of any proposed amendments are not drawn up in such of the languages referred to in paragraph 1 as he or she may specify.
Article 15 Signing of acts The text of the acts adopted by the Council and that of the acts adopted jointly by the European Parliament and the Council shall be signed by the President-in-Office at the time of their adoption and by the Secretary-General or the Deputy Secretary-General.
Article 16 [9] Absence of the possibility to participate in the vote For the purposes of application of these Rules of Procedure, due account will be taken, in accordance with Annex IV, of cases in which, under the Treaties, one or more members of the Council may not participate in the vote.
Article 17 Publication of acts in the Official Journal 1.
The following shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as the Official Journal) by the Secretary-General or the Deputy Secretary-General: (a) the acts referred to in Article 254(1) and (2) of the EC Treaty; (b) the acts referred to in the first paragraph of Article 163 of the Euratom Treaty; (c) the common positions adopted by the Council in accordance with the procedures referred to in Articles 251 and 252 of the EC Treaty, and the reasons underlying those common positions; (d) the framework decisions and decisions referred to in Article 34(2) of the EU Treaty; (e) the conventions established by the Council in accordance with Article 34(2) of the EU Treaty.
Reference shall be made in the Official Journal to the entry into force of such conventions; (f) the conventions signed between Member States on the basis of Article 293 of the EC Treaty.
Reference shall be made in the Official Journal to the entry into force of such agreements; (h) international agreements concluded in accordance with Article 24 of the EU Treaty, unless the Council decides otherwise on the grounds of Articles 4 and 9 of Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2001 regarding public access to European Parliament, Council and Commission documents [10].
Reference shall be made in the Official Journal to the entry into force of such agreements. 2.
The Council or Coreper shall decide unanimously, on a case-by-case basis, whether there should be publication in the Official Journal by the Secretary-General or the Deputy Secretary-General of the common strategies, the joint actions and the common positions referred to in Article 12 of the EU Treaty. 4.
The Council or Coreper shall decide, on a case-by-case basis and taking account of possible publication of the basic act, whether the following should be published in the Official Journal by the Secretary-General or the Deputy Secretary-General: (a) the measures implementing the joint actions referred to in Article 12 of the EU Treaty; (b) the joint actions, the common positions or any other decision adopted on the basis of a common strategy, as provided for in the first indent of Article 23(2) of the EU Treaty; (c) any measures implementing the decisions referred to in Article 34(2) of the EU Treaty and any measures implementing conventions drawn up by the Council in accordance with Article 34(2) of the EU Treaty; (d) other Council acts, such as sui generis decisions or resolutions. 5.
Article 18 Notification of acts 1.
Directives other than those referred to in Article 254(1) and (2) of the EC Treaty and Decisions other than those referred to in Article 254(1) of the EC Treaty shall be notified to their addressees by the Secretary-General, the Deputy Secretary-General or a Director-General acting on their behalf. 2.
When they are not published in the Official Journal, the following acts shall be notified to their addressees by the Secretary-General, the Deputy Secretary-General or a Director-General acting on their behalf: (a) recommendations; (b) the common strategies, joint actions and common positions referred to in Article 12 of the EU Treaty; (c) the common positions referred to in Article 34(2) of the EU Treaty; (d) measures implementing the acts adopted on the basis of Articles 12 and 34 of the EU Treaty. 3.
The Secretary-General, the Deputy Secretary-General or a Director-General acting on their behalf shall send to the Governments of the Member States and to the Commission authentic copies of Council directives other than those referred to in Article 254(1) and (2) of the EC Treaty and Council decisions and recommendations.
Article 19 [11] Coreper, committees and working parties 1.
The same shall apply to the committees and working parties referred to in paragraph 3, unless Coreper decides otherwise. 5.
Unanimity on the part of Coreper shall be required for any derogation from that period [13]: (a) decision to hold a Council meeting in a place other than Brussels or Luxembourg (Article 1(3)); (b) authorisation to produce a copy of or an extract from a Council document for use in legal proceedings (Article 6(2)); (c) decision to hold a public debate in the Council or not to hold in public a given Council deliberation (Article 8(1)(c), (2) and (3)); (d) decision to make the results of votes and the statements entered in the Council minutes public in the cases laid down in Article 9(2); (e) decision to use the written procedure (Article 12(1)); (f) approval or amendment of Council minutes (Article 13(2) and (3)); (g) decision to publish or not to publish a text or an act in the Official Journal (Article 17(2), (3) and (4)); (h) decision to consult an institution or body wherever such consultation is not required by the Treaties; (i) decision setting or extending a time limit for consultation of an institution or body; (j) decision to extend the periods laid down in Article 251(7) of the EC Treaty; (k) approval of the wording of a letter to be sent to an institution or body.
Article 20 The Presidency and the businesslike conduct of discussions 1.
To ensure that discussions are conducted properly it may also, unless the Council decides otherwise, take any appropriate measure necessary to achieve the best possible use of the time available during meetings and in particular: (a) restrict the numbers per delegation present in the meeting room for discussion of a particular item, and decide whether to authorise the opening of an overflow room; (b) set the order in which items are to be taken and determine the duration of discussions on them; (c) organise the time allotted for discussion of a particular item, in particular through limiting the time during which participants may speak and determining the order in which they may take the floor; (d) ask delegations to present in writing their proposals for amendment of a text under discussion before a given date, together with a brief explanation if appropriate; (e) ask delegations which have identical or similar positions on a particular item, text or part thereof to choose one of them to express their shared position at the meeting or in writing before the meeting. 2.
Article 21 [14] [15] Reports from committees and working parties Notwithstanding the other provisions of these Rules of Procedure, the Presidency shall organise the meetings of the various committees and working parties so that their reports are available before the Coreper meetings at which they are to be examined.
Article 22 Quality of drafting [16] In order to assist the Council in its task of ensuring the drafting quality of the legislative acts which it adopts, the Legal Service shall be responsible for checking the drafting quality of proposals and draft acts at the appropriate stage, as well as for bringing drafting suggestions to the attention of the Council and its bodies, pursuant to the Interinstitutional Agreement of 22 December 1998 on common guidelines for the quality of drafting of Community legislation [17].
Article 23 The Secretary-General and the General Secretariat 1.
Article 25 Duties as depositary of agreements and conventions In the event of the Secretary-General of the Council being designated as depositary of an agreement concluded in accordance with Article 24 of the EU Treaty or concluded by the Community and one or more States or international organisations, of a convention concluded between Member States or of a convention established pursuant to Article 34 of the EU Treaty, the acts of ratification, acceptance or approval of those agreements or conventions shall be deposited at the address of the Council.
Article 26 Representation before the European Parliament The Council may be represented before the European Parliament or its committees by the Presidency or, with the latter's agreement, by the following Presidency or by the Secretary-General.
Article 27 Provisions concerning the form of acts The provisions concerning the form of acts are set out in Annex VI.
Article 28 Correspondence addressed to the Council Correspondence to the Council shall be sent to the President at the following address of the Council: Council of the European Union rue de la Loi/Wetstraat 175 B-1048 Brussels. "" ANNEX I LIST OF COUNCIL CONFIGURATIONS 1.
General affairs and external relations [19]; 2.
The third party shall be consulted in writing (including by e-mail) and be given a reasonable time limit for its reply, taking into account the time limit laid down in Article 7 of Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001.
In the cases referred to in paragraph 1, the third party shall be asked to give its opinion in writing. 4.
At the same time, the third party's attention shall be drawn to Article 243 of the EC Treaty.
Article 3 Requests for consultation received from other institutions or from Member States Requests for consultations with the Council made by another institution or a Member State concerning an application for a Council document shall be sent via e-mail to access@consilium.europa.eu or by fax to (32-2) 281 63 61.
Article 4 Documents originating from Member States Any request by a Member State under Article 4(5) of Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 shall be made in writing to the General Secretariat.
Article 5 Referral of requests by Member States When a Member States refers to a request to the Council, it shall be handled in accordance with Articles 7 and 8 of Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 and the relevant provisions of this Annex.
Article 6 Address for applications Applications for access to a document shall be addressed in writing to the Secretary-General of the Council/High Representative, rue de la Loi/Wetstraat 175, B-1048 Brussels, by e-mail to access@consilium.europa.eu or by fax to (32-2) 281 63 61.
Article 7 Processing of initial applications Subject to Article 9(2) and (3) of Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001, any application for access to a Council document shall be handled by the General Secretariat.
Article 8 Processing of confirmatory applications Subject to Article 9(2) and (3) of Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001, any confirmatory application shall be decided upon by the Council.
Article 9 Charges The charges for producing and sending copies of Council documents shall be set by the Secretary-General.
Article 10 Public register of Council documents 1.
Article 11 Documents directly accessible to the public 1.
This Article shall apply to all Council documents, provided that they are not classified and without prejudice to the possibility of making a written application in accordance with Article 6 of Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001. 2.
For the purpose of this Article: - "circulation" shall mean distribution of the final version of a document to the members of the Council, their representatives or delegates, - "legislative document" shall mean any document concerning the examination and adoption of a legislative act within the meaning of Article 7 of the Rules of Procedure. 3.
The General Secretariat shall make the following legislative documents available to the public, in addition to the documents referred to in paragraphs 3 and 4, as soon as they have been circulated: (a) cover notes and copies of letters concerning legislative acts addressed to the Council by other institutions or bodies of the European Union or, subject to Article 4(5) of Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001, by a Member State; (b) documents submitted to the Council which are listed under an item on its agenda marked with the words "public deliberation" or "public debate" in accordance with Article 8 of the Rules of Procedure; (c) notes submitted to Coreper and/or to the Council for approval (I/A and A item notes), as well as the draft legislative acts to which they refer; (d) decisions adopted by the Council during the procedure referred to in Article 251 of the EC Treaty and joint texts approved by the Conciliation Committee. 6.
With effect from 1 January each year, the Council shall, in accordance with the data available to the Statistical Office of the European Communities on 30 September of the preceding year, amend the figures set out in Article 1.
This Decision shall be published in the Official Journal. "" ANNEX IV 1.
A member of the Council or of Coreper may not make use of the following provisions of these Rules of Procedure in connection with decisions on which, under the Treaties, that member may not participate in the vote: (a) Article 3(8) (possibility of a member of the Council requesting withdrawal of an A item from the agenda); (b) Article 11(1), second subparagraph (possibility of a member of the Council requesting the opening of a voting procedure); (c) Article 11(3) (possibility of a member of the Council acting on behalf of another in a vote); (d) Article 14(2) (possibility for any member of the Council to oppose discussion if the texts of any proposed amendments are not drawn up in the language he or she has specified). "" ANNEX V WORKING METHODS FOR AN ENLARGED COUNCIL Preparation for meetings 1.
Wherever possible, delegations shall raise "Any other business" items when Coreper's proceedings are being prepared rather than in Coreper itself. 5.
Form of Regulations: 1.
Forms of common strategies of the European Council, joint actions and common positions referred to in Article 12 of the EU Treaty, common strategies, joint actions and common positions within the meaning of Article 12 of the EU Treaty shall bear one of the following headings, as appropriate: (a) "European Council Common Strategy", a serial number (year/number/CFSP), the date of adoption and the subject-matter; (b) "Council Joint Action", a serial number (year/number/CFSP), the date of adoption and the subject-matter; (c) "Council Common Position", a serial number (year/number/CFSP), the date of adoption and the subject-matter.
Done at Brussels, 15 September 2006.
Tuomioja [1] Council Decision (2004/338/EC, Euratom) of 22 March 2004 adopting the Council's Rules of Procedure (OJ L 106, 15.4.2004, p. 22).
Rules of Procedure as last amended by Council Decision 2006/34/EC, Euratom of 23 January 2006 (OJ L 22, 26.1.2006, p. 32). [2] This paragraph reproduces Article 204 of the Treaty establishing the European Community (hereinafter referred to as the EC Treaty). [3] This paragraph reproduces point (b) of the sole Article of the Protocol on the location of the seats of the institutions and of certain bodies and departments of the European Communities and of Europol annexed to the Treaties. [4] See statement (a) set out below:(a)Concerning Article 2(4):"The 18-month programme will include a general introductory section setting the programme in the context of the European Union's longer term strategic orientations.
On this section, the three Presidencies in charge of preparing the draft 18-month programme will consult with the three subsequent Presidencies, as part of the ‘appropriate consultations’ referred to in the first sentence of paragraph 4.The draft 18-month programme should also have regard, inter alia, to relevant points arising from the dialogue on the political priorities for the year, conducted at the Commission's initiative." [5] See statements (b) and (c) set out below:(b)Re Article 3(1) and (2)"The President will endeavour to ensure that, in principle, the provisional agenda for each meeting of the Council dealing with implementation of Title IV of Part 3 of the EC Treaty and Title VI of the EU Treaty and any documents relating to the items involved reach members of the Council at least 21 days before the beginning of the meeting."(c)Re Articles 1 and 3"Without prejudice to Article 22(2) of the EU Treaty, which specifies that an extraordinary Council meeting may be convened at very short notice in cases requiring a rapid decision, the Council is aware of the need for matters relating to the common foreign and security policy to be dealt with swiftly and efficiently.
The arrangements in Article 3 shall not prevent this need from being met." [6] This paragraph reproduces Article 206 of the EC Treaty. [7] See statement (d) set out below:(d)Re Article 12(2)(a), (b) and (c)"In accordance with the Council's regular practice, the time limit fixed will normally be three working days". [8] See statement (e) set out below:(e)Re Article 12(2)(d)"The Council would point out that the COREU network must be used in accordance with the Council conclusions of 12 June 1995 (doc. 7896/95) concerning the Council's working methods." [9] See statement (f) set out below:(f)Re Article 16 and Annex IV"The Council agrees that the provisions of Article 16 and Annex IV apply to acts for the adoption of which some members of the Council are, under the Treaties, not entitled to vote.
However, application of Article 7 of the EU Treaty is not covered by those provisions.In the first application of Articles 43 and 44 of the EU Treaty, the Council will, in the light of experience acquired in other fields, consider any adaptations necessary to Article 16 of and Annex IV to these Rules of Procedure." [10] OJ L 145, 31.5.2001, p. 43. [11] These provisions are without prejudice to the role of the Economic and Financial Committee as laid down in Article 114 of the EC Treaty and to existing Council Decisions thereon (OJ L 358, 31.12.1998, p. 109 and OJ L 5, 1.1.1999, p. 71). [12] See statement (g) set out below:(g)Re Article 19(1)"Coreper will ensure consistency and observance of the principles set out in paragraph 1, in particular for matters where substantive preparation is undertaken in other fora." [13] See statement (h) set out below:(h)Re Article 19(7)"If a member of the Council considers that a draft procedural decision submitted to Coreper for adoption in accordance with Article 19(7) raises a question of substance, the draft decision will be submitted to the Council." [14] These provisions are without prejudice to the role of the Economic and Financial Committee as laid down in Article 114 of the EC Treaty and to existing Council Decisions thereon (OJ L 358, 31.12.1998, p. 109 and OJ L 5, 1.1.1999, p. 71). [15] See statement (i) set out below:(i)Re Article 21"Reports from working parties and any other documents used as a basis for Coreper's discussions should be sent to delegations in time to allow for their examination." [16] See statement (j) set out below:(j)Re Article 22"The Council Legal Service has also been instructed to provide assistance to a Member State responsible for an initiative within the meaning of Article 67(1) of the EC Treaty or Article 34(2) of the EU Treaty for the purpose inter alia of checking the quality of drafting of such initiatives if that assistance is requested by the Member State concerned."See statement (k) set out below:(k)Re Article 22"Members of the Council will comment on proposals for official codification of legislative texts within 30 days of the circulation of such proposals by the General Secretariat.Members of the Council will ensure that those provisions of a proposal for the recasting of legislative texts which have been taken from the preceding act without substantive amendment are examined in accordance with the principles established for examination of codification proposals." [17] OJ C 73, 17.3.1999, p. 1. [18] Paragraphs 1 and 2, first subparagraph, reproduce Article 207(2) of the EC Treaty. [19] Including European security and defence policy and development cooperation. [20] Including budget. [21] Including civil protection. [22] Including tourism. [23] Including audiovisual affairs. [24] See statement (l) set out below:(l)Re Annex I, second subparagraph"The Presidency will organise Council agendas by grouping together related agenda items, in order to facilitate attendance by the relevant national representatives, particularly where a given Council configuration as to deal with clearly distinguishable sets of topics." [25] OJ L 8, 12.1.2001, p. 1. [26] See statement (m) set out below:(m)Re Annex IV, paragraph 1(h)"The Council confirms that present practice whereby the texts serving as a basis for its deliberations are drawn up in all the languages will continue to apply." [27] See statement (n) set out below:(n)Re Annex VI, paragraph A.4 (a) (ii)"The Council would point out that, in the cases provided for in the Treaties where an act is not applicable to or in all Member States, it is necessary to make clear its territorial application in the reasons given for and content of the act concerned." --------------------------------------------------
