Council Regulation (EC) No 969/2000 of 8 May 2000 imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty on imports of potassium chloride originating in Belarus, Russia and Ukraine Council Regulation (EC) No 969/2000 of 8 May 2000 imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty on imports of potassium chloride originating in Belarus, Russia and Ukraine THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, Having regard to Council Regulation (EC) No 384/96 of 22 December 1995 on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the European Community(1) and in particular Articles 9 and 11 thereof, Having regard to the proposal submitted by the Commission after consulting the Advisory Committee, Whereas: 1.
PREVIOUS INVESTIGATIONS (1) By Regulation (EEC) No 3068/92(2), the Council imposed definitive anti-dumping duties on imports of potassium chloride (hereinafter referred to as %quot%potash%quot% or the %quot%product concerned%quot%) originating in Belarus, Russia and Ukraine (hereinafter referred to as the %quot%countries concerned%quot%).
It should also be mentioned that the review carried out in 1994 covered both dumping and injury, as well as Community interest. (3) By Regulation (EC) No 449/98(4), the Council again amended the abovementioned measures.
This review was initiated following a request by the International Potash Company (IPC), an exporter of Russian and Belarusian potash, who claimed, among other issues, that the accession of Austria, Finland and Sweden had resulted in a change in the circumstances on the basis of which the measures in force had been established.
It should also be mentioned that the review concluded in 1998 was limited to the examination of dumping and Community interest. 2.
PERIOD OF INVESTIGATION (9) The investigation on continuation or recurrence of dumping covered the period from 1 January to 31 December 1998 (hereinafter referred to as the %quot%IP%quot% or the %quot%investigation period%quot%).
The examination of continuation or recurrence of injury covered the period from 1 January 1994 up to the end of the IP (hereinafter referred to as the %quot%period considered%quot%).
Producers in Belarus and Russia, namely, Production Amalgamation %quot%Belaruskali%quot% (Soligorsk, Minsk region, Belarus), JSC %quot%Silvinit%quot% (Solikamsk, Perm region, Russia) and JSC %quot%Uralkali%quot% (Berezniki, Perm region, Russia) cooperated with the investigation via their common exporter IPC (Moscow, Russia).
Ferchimex (Antwerp, Belgium) and Belarus (Vienna, Austria), related importers of IPC, replied as well.
No cooperation was received from any Ukrainian exporting producer. (12) Seven unrelated importers replied to the questionnaire and made their views known in writing.
No replies were obtained from the non-importing users of the product. (13) All information deemed necessary to determine whether there was a likelihood of a continuation or recurrence of dumping and injury and whether the continued imposition of the measures was in the Community interest was sought and verified.
The product is generally classified into three basic categories, based on the K2O content, namely: - potassium content not exceeding 40 % K2O - falling under CN code 3104 20 10, - potassium content exceeding 40 % K2O but less than or equal to 62 % - falling under CN code 31042050, - potassium content over 62 % K2O - falling under CN code 31042090. (16) Since the anti-dumping measures in force also consist of a variable duty, the Regulation subject to review specified different levels of anti-dumping duties for standard potash, on the one hand, and the remaining forms of potash including granular potash, on the other. (17) It should be recalled that in the last review investigation, it was found that imports of certain special mixtures or blends with an unusually high content of potash, which do not fall under the CN codes for potash indicated above, should be considered a product concerned.
As the present investigation has not brought to light any consideration indicating that the approach taken should not be continued, and in order to ensure a consistent application of the anti-dumping measures, as well as to avoid erroneous classification, it has been considered necessary, in this Regulation, to clarify the minimum content of K2O of such mixtures and blends as being 35 % or more, by weight, of the dry anhydrous product and falling under the %quot%other than standard%quot% form of potash. 3.2.
LIKE PRODUCT (18) As in the previous investigations, it was established that, since there were no differences in the physical and chemical properties of the different types and qualities of potash, potash produced in Canada, which was chosen as analogue country (see Chapter 4.2) and sold on the North American market, is a like product to that exported to the Community from the countries concerned, in the sense of Article 1(4) of the basic Regulation.
In addition, potash exported from the countries concerned and potash produced by the Community producers were also like products. (19) IPC requested the exclusion of standard potash with a K2O content higher than 62 %, which, it was claimed, was only used in pharmaceutical applications, had different prices and was delivered packed (as opposed to the bulk deliveries of potash used as a fertiliser).
PRELIMINARY REMARKS (20) In accordance with Article 11(2) of the basic Regulation, the purpose of this type of review is to determine whether or not the expiry of the measures would lead to a continuation or recurrence of injurious dumping. (21) In this respect, the volumes exported to the Community during the IP were examined.
The volume of imports from Belarus could also be considered representative as they reached 1,2 % of Community consumption.
In these circumstances, it was not necessary to examine whether there was a likelihood of recurrence of dumping due to imports originating in these two countries should measures be removed.
As regards Ukraine there were no exports during the IP and therefore the investigation centred on whether there was a likelihood of recurrence of dumping should measures be removed. 4.2.
ANALOGUE COUNTRY (22) In order to establish whether dumping would continue or recur, normal value had to be based on information obtained in an appropriate market-economy third country in accordance with Article 2(7) of the basic Regulation.
These data, relating to mines located in New Brunswick and Saskatchewan, were fully verified at the companies' premises in Canada. 4.3.
Therefore, for both Belarus and Russia, export prices were assessed on the basis of the information provided by IPC. (33) IPC sold to the Community market partly via two related importers, Ferchimex, based in Belgium and Belarus, based in Austria, and partly directly to independent customers. (34) In all cases where exports of potash were made to independent customers in the Community, the export price was established in accordance with Article 2(8) of the basic Regulation, i.e.
In such cases, adjustments were made for all costs incurred between importation and resale and for profits accruing, in order to establish a reliable export price at the Community frontier level.
The profit margin of 5 % applied in the previous investigation was, in the absence of any other information, considered reasonable given the functions performed by the related importers. (35) During the investigation period, virtually all of the potash exported to the Community by IPC entered the Community market in the framework of the inward processing relief (IPR) regime, where it competed with potash produced by the Community industry. 4.3.3.
for transport within Belarus and Russia data relating to transport costs in Canada were taken, while transport costs from the border of the producing country to the Community border, where applicable, were determined on the basis of the costs reported by IPC. (40) IPC argued that the amounts for transport costs reported in its reply to the questionnaire were wrongly deducted.
Dumping margin (42) A dumping margin was determined respectively for Belarus, Russia and Ukraine.
On this basis, it was necessary to examine whether dumping would recur should measures be repealed.
It should also be noted that in the past imports from the Ukraine have been at prices similar to those then charged by Russia and Belarus. 4.4.1.
Conclusion (47) In view of the foregoing, and in the absence of any other evidence to the contrary, for exemple information on capacity utilisation, volumes and prices of exports to other third countries, it was concluded that there is a likelihood of a recurrence of dumped imports originating in the Ukraine should measures be repealed. 5.
DEFINITION OF THE COMMUNITY INDUSTRY (48) The investigation confirmed that the applicant Community producers represented 99 % of the Community production of potash and therefore constitute the Community industry within the meaning of Article 4(1) and Article 5(4) of the basic Regulation. 6.
ANALYSIS OF THE SITUATION OF THE COMMUNITY INDUSTRY AND OF THE COMMUNITY POTASH MARKET (49) Firstly, it should be noted that the data relating to profitability and investments during the period considered were calculated on the basis of the data of three Community producers: Cleveland Potash Limited, Comercial de Potasas, SA and Kali und Salz GmbH.
The fourth Community producer, SCPA, was partly excluded due to the exceptional condition of its mining subsidiary %quot%Mines de potasse d'Alsace%quot%.
CONSUMPTION ON THE COMMUNITY MARKET (51) The total consumption of potash was calculated on the basis of the combined totals of: (a) the sales volume of own-produced potash of the Community industry on the Community market; (b) the sales volume of non-applicant Community producers on the Community market; (c) imports into the Community of potash from the countries concerned; (d) imports into the Community of potash from all other third countries. (52) On this basis, consumption decreased from around 7460000 tonnes in 1994 to around 7290000 tonnes in the IP; i.e., a decrease of approximately 2,3 %.
However, during the period considered the level of consumption fluctuated as shown in the table below: %gt%TABLE%gt% 6.2.
Import volume (53) The volume of imports of potash originating in Russia decreased from 397000 tonnes in 1994 to 305000 tonnes during the IP, equivalent to a decrease of about 23 %.
The volume of imports originating in Belarus decreased from 137000 tonnes in 1994 to 91000 tonnes in the IP, equivalent to a decrease of about 34 %.
Ukraine exported only during the years 1994, 1995 and 1997, with a sharply declining trend.
The overall imports from the countries concerned decreased by around 32 % during the period considered.
The decrease was, however, not constant: total imports from the countries concerned decreased until 1996, reaching a low of 132000 tonnes, after which they started soaring again, increasing by threefold up to the IP. (54) The investigation has shown that the volume of imports as reported by IPC is higher than the data contained in Eurostat, as several Member States that have only one major importer did not report complete data for confidentiality reasons.
While the share of imports under the IPR regime was only minor in 1994, during the IP practically all the imports occurred under the said regime.
It should also be noted that goods imported under this regime are not liable to the anti-dumping duties under review, a factor explaining the increase occurring towards the end of the period considered. 6.2.2.
Market share (56) The market share of the imports from the countries concerned on the Community market decreased by 2,4 percentage points during the period considered.
The cif average sales prices from the countries concerned on the Community market developed in detail as follows: %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% (58) The average increase in the price of potash with 40 % %amp%lt; K2O %amp%lt;= 62 % from the countries concerned amounts to 14,6 % during the period considered.
Price behaviour (60) Anti-dumping duties have been in force for three years.
They were compared to the weighted averages of all Community producers' invoiced prices at Community level for the said two grades of potash. (62) It was thus established that IPC's prices were lower than those of the Community industry by more than 10 % on average.
More specifically, potash prices of Russian origin were lower by about 20 % and of Belarusian origin by 5 %. 6.3.
ECONOMIC SITUATION OF THE COMMUNITY INDUSTRY (63) It should be noted that forecasts given by the Community industry for 1999 and 2000 were based on the assumption that the measures will be maintained. 6.3.1.
Production (64) The production of potash in the Community declined throughout the period considered with the exception of 1996 when a minor increase occurred.
Production decreased from around 7779000 tonnes to around 7026000 tonnes for the following reasons: (1) the gradual exhaustion of ore in the French mine; (2) the closing down of some unprofitable mines in Germany and Spain; and (3) geological anomalies in the mine of one Community producer in 1997 and during the IP.
For 1999 and 2000, the Community industry forecast an increase in production reaching the level of 1997 in 2000.
Production capacity (65) The production capacity of the Community industry decreased from around 10000000 tonnes in 1994 to around 9300000 tonnes in the IP.
Only in 1996 was there a minor increase in production capacity compared to the previous year.
In 1999 and 2000 the Community industry is expected to reduce its capacity even further to a level of around 8500000 tonnes in 2000 due to progressive exhaustion of ore in the French mine.
Figures for total production capacity of potash were as follows: %gt%TABLE%gt% 6.3.3.
Capacity utilisation (66) The Community industry's capacity utilisation increased from 1994 to 1996 but began to decrease in 1997, primarily because the French producer was no longer able to produce potash up to its maximum ore-processing machine capacity as a result of decreasing ore resources.
However, for 1999 and 2000 the Community industry expects to improve its capacity utilisation rate up to a level of 86 % in year 2000 along with the write-off of capacity in France.
In particular, the Community industry's capacity utilisation for potash developed as follows: %gt%TABLE%gt% 6.3.4.
In particular, the Community industry's sales volume on the Community market developed as follows: %gt%TABLE%gt% 6.3.5.
Market share (67) The Community industry's market share decreased from 74,1 % in 1994 to 72,2 % in the IP: a drop of about 2 percentage points.
Price development (68) The investigation showed that the Community producers' average selling price of the most-sold grade of standard potash (40 % %amp%lt; K2O %amp%lt;= 62 %) rose from 90,1 ECU/tonne in 1994 to 104,2 ECU/tonne in the IP.
The decrease in price coincides with significant increase in sales volumes for the grade by the Community industry during the period considered.
Larger orders brought economies of scale and therefore customers benefited from lower average prices. (69) While there was a general upward trend in selling prices of standard potash with 40 % %amp%lt; K 2O %amp%lt;= 62 % between 1994 and the IP, prices temporarily dropped in 1997 and then increased by 7,9 % in the IP.
The Community industry's average sales price for potash on the Community market developed as follows: %gt%TABLE%gt% 6.3.7.
It should also be recalled that the French producer, SCPA, was excluded from the Community industry's profitability calculation for the reasons set out in recital 49. (71) The Community industry's profitability, expressed as a percentage of net sales, increased during the period considered from a weighted average loss of 1,0 % in 1994 to a profit of 3,3 % in the IP.
During 1999 and 2000 the Community industry's profit level is expected to continue to fall short of a profit, which is considered normal for a risk-intensive mining business such as potash.
The Community industry's profitability on the Community market for potash developed as follows: %gt%TABLE%gt% 6.3.8.
Employment (72) Employment in the Community industry declined from 8460 employees in 1994 to 6936 employees in the IP, a drop of 18,0 %.
The Community industry's employment situation developed as follows: %gt%TABLE%gt% 6.3.9.
Stocks (73) The closing stocks of the Community producers for potash decreased from 560000 tonnes in 1994 to 469000 tonnes in the IP, a decrease of about 16 %.
Closing stocks increased continuously from 1994 to 1996, but dropped significantly in 1997 to moderately increase again during the IP.
The closing stocks of the Community industry of potash developed as follows: %gt%TABLE%gt% 6.3.10.
Investments (74) The Community industry's total investments decreased from around ECU 87,7 million in 1994 to around ECU 52,9 million in the IP, a decrease of about 40 %.
Between 1994 and 1995 the investments increased due to a modernisation process of the mines of one major Community producer.
In 1999 and 2000 the Community industry plans to start investing more again and the forecast level of investments in 2000 would exceed the 1996 figure.
The Community industry's investments developed as follows: %gt%TABLE%gt% 6.4.
IMPORT VOLUMES AND IMPORT PRICES FROM OTHER THIRD COUNTRIES (75) The import volume of potash from other third countries increased during the period considered from about 1348000 tonnes in 1994 to about 1566000 tonnes in the IP.
The major part of the increase is attributable to imports from Israel. %gt%TABLE%gt% (76) The market share of imports from other third countries grew from 17,9 % in 1994 to 21,0 % in 1995 and remained relatively stable thereafter ending up with 21,4 % at the end of the IP. (77) The average sales price for imports from other third countries has been included to show the price trend during the period considered.
This analysis showed that exports amounted to 2314000 tonnes in 1994 compared to 1658000 tonnes in the IP.
These exports had a downward trend except for 1997 when exports increased compared to the previous year.
In 1999 and 2000 the Community industry expects to export somewhat less than in the IP.
This downward trend is likely to be explained by the fact that, as explained later in point 7.3, the countries concerned have significantly increased their marketing efforts in other third markets than the Community after the anti-dumping measures concerning imports of potash originating in the countries concerned came into force in the Community.
In detail, the development during the period considered was as follows: %gt%TABLE%gt% 6.6.
Economic factors such as average sales prices per tonne for the most-sold grade, volume of stocks and profitability showed a positive development. (80) Indeed, average sales prices for standard grade potash with 40 % %amp%lt; K2O %amp%lt;= 62 % rose by 15,6 % during the period considered.
It is clear that this is due to increased sales prices, which were made possible by the introduction of more effective anti-dumping measures in 1994. (81) Nevertheless, the analysis also shows that these positive developments do not cover all indicators and that, in particular from 1996 onwards, there has been a downward trend.
Specifically, production volume, capacity, capacity utilisation, market share, sales volume, employment and investments did not develop favourably. (82) The Community industry's sales volume decreased by 4,9 % during the period considered.
Its production volume and capacity declined by 9,7 % and 7,0 % respectively, leading to a decrease of 2,2 percentage points in its capacity utilisation.
Furthermore, the Community industry's investments plummeted by 39,7 % at the same time as it had to reduce its workforce by 18,0 %. (83) As mentioned earlier, the Community consumption of potash decreased by about 2,3 %, reaching its lowest level in 1996.
The Community industry lost 1,9 % of the Community market; the countries concerned lost 2,4 %, while other third countries, notably Israel, gained 3,4 %.
Since 1996, however, the Community industry has lost more than 4 % of the Community market; the countries concerned gained 3,5 % while for the other third countries the share remained practically unchanged.
It can be concluded, therefore, that imports from other third countries have had no significant impact on the economic situation of the Community industry between 1996 and the end of the IP. (84) The average prices of the Community industry and of the countries concerned increased in a similar manner (except for standard potash with K2O %amp%gt; 62 %) as shown in recitals 57 and 69.
Export sales, which represented 24 % of the total sales of the Community industry during the IP, had decreased by 28,3 % during the period considered because of fierce competition on the third-country markets.
EXPORTS UNDER THE IPR REGIME (87) An analysis of the sales prices for imports under the IPR regime was made in order to assess at which prices imports could be made in case anti-dumping measures were allowed to lapse.
As can be seen in recital 62, IPC's prices in the Community, quoted almost exclusively under the IPR regime, undercut the Community industry's sales prices by significantly more than 10 % on average. 7.3.
EXPORTS TO THIRD COUNTRIES BY THE COUNTRIES CONCERNED (88) The development of exports of the countries concerned to the Community and of their Community market share is described in point 6.2. (89) The development of the export volumes of Belarus and Russia to major markets other than the Community was also analysed on the basis of the questionnaire reply and subsequent submission of IPC.
During the IP the main export market of Belarus and Russia was China, where imports increased by around 87 % during the period considered.
The second largest market was Brazil, which in the IP imported about 34 times more potash from Belarus and Russia than in 1994.
Japan and other smaller markets in total somewhat decreased their imports from the two countries during the period considered. (90) Norway, which has a significant user interest but no producers of potash, imported hardly any quantities from Belarus and Russia in 1994.
Since the effective, combined anti-dumping measures against potash from the countries concerned were imposed by the Community, the exports of Belarus and Russia have been redirected into Norway to such an extent that the market share of the countries concerned in Norway reached 71,3 %(10) in the IP and the sales volumes of Belarus and Russia into this country exceeded total sales into the Community as early as 1995(11). (91) The table below, indexed for confidentiality reasons, shows in detail the development of the export sales of Belarus and Russia to markets other than the Community during the period considered. %gt%TABLE%gt% (92) In order to be able to assess the importance of these exports it should be noted that the exports of the countries concerned to the Community during the IP roughly correspond to their exports to Norway.
Furthermore, the total exports of the countries concerned to third-country markets other than the Community roughly correspond to the Community industry's total sales on the Community market. (93) A price comparison for all types of potash on a delivered basis shows that sales prices to Norway, Brazil and Japan during the IP were at a higher level than prices to the Community.
Export prices to the United States of America have remained systematically lower than prices to the Community during the period considered. 7.4.
As the table below (indexed for confidentiality reasons) shows production volumes have increased relatively steadily, with only one small downward correction in 1996. %gt%TABLE%gt% (97) Along with the increasing production, the capacity utilisation of the producers in Belarus and Russia has improved but remains still at an exceptionally low level leaving a considerable amount of idle capacity.
The table below (indexed for confidentiality reasons) demonstrates that the capacity utilisation rate of the producers improved by 38 % during the period considered. %gt%TABLE%gt% (98) No clear trend was established for stocks.
Stocks of the three producers were at a relatively low level at the end of the IP. (99) Investments by Belarus and Russia in their potash mines and factories increased by around 172 % during the period considered.
CONCLUSION ON THE LIKELIHOOD OF THE RECURRENCE OF INJURIOUS DUMPING (100) The information available has shown that, although Belarus and Russia have managed to redirect part of their sales from the Community market to other markets such as China and Brazil and to obtain relatively favourable prices on some of these markets, the production capacity and capacity-utilisation rates of the producers in Belarus and Russia continue to be exceptionally low. (101) Domestic consumption is significantly reduced and a change in this situation is not expected in the foreseeable future.
It should be noted that although the price level on some markets, like Brazil, is higher than in the Community, freight costs from the countries concerned to these destinations are much higher than to the Community.
It was therefore concluded that, with respect to imports originating in Ukraine, there is a likelihood of recurrence of injurious dumping should the measures lapse. (105) It is therefore concluded that, in the absence of measures, there is a likelihood of a recurrence of injurious dumping and that anti-dumping measures should therefore be maintained. 8.
INTRODUCTION (106) In accordance with Article 21 of the basic Regulation, it was examined whether a prolongation of the existing anti-dumping measures would be against the interest of the Community as a whole.
INTERESTS OF THE COMMUNITY INDUSTRY (110) As set out above, it is considered that, if the anti-dumping measures were allowed to lapse, the dumped imports destined for free circulation on the Community market would be likely to recur and that the situation of the Community industry would start deteriorating again from its currently moderately profitable status. (111) This could entail a severe reduction in the numbers of employees in addition to the reductions that will occur as a result of the future closure of the French Community producer. (112) Furthermore, although potash production in France will cease, the ongoing restructuring efforts and plans show that the Community industry is not ready to abandon this segment of production.
However, one importing user stated that the anti-dumping measures had created a certain price stability on the Community market for potash, which was beneficial for its activity. (120) Users have little flexibility concerning their product mix whenever an anti-dumping duty for one of the fertiliser components is applied.
In a particular example, the share of potash in the total price increase of the final product was calculated to be around 20 % during the period considered. (122) Although it must be recognised that the cost situation of Community users of potash on the Community market has deteriorated since the measures were imposed, the effect of the potash prices on their total production costs is not likely to be such as to jeopardise their existence.
Since the measures have been in place for seven years now, it can be concluded that their continuation will not imply a further deterioration in the situation of the users. 8.5.
However, it has been argued that, despite such a presence, the current form of measures, in particular the minimum price element, has affected the market in a way that has impeded competition.
Therefore, the price disadvantage that will result for the users from the continuation of the anti-dumping measures is overridden by the benefits to the Community resulting from the prevention of the recurrence of the injurious dumping. (125) However, since the current form of anti-dumping measures has had the effect of practically excluding imports of the product concerned, other than those destined for inward processing, and consequently of eliminating a significant source of supply on this market, it is concluded that there are no compelling reasons against the prolongation of the existing anti-dumping measures, but that it is in the interest of the Community to change the form of measures as explained below. 9.
It is therefore considered appropriate to amend the form of the measures by eliminating the minimum-price component while retaining the fixed duty element. (128) Finally, it should be noted that the Commission also received proposals for an undertaking from IPC, in accordance with Article 8 of the basic Regulation.
A definitive anti-dumping duty is hereby imposed on imports of potassium chloride falling within CN codes 31042010, 3104 20 50, 3104 20 90 and on special mixtures falling within CN codes ex31052010, ex 3105 20 90, ex 3105 60 90, ex 3105 90 91, ex 3105 90 99 originating in Belarus, Russia and Ukraine. 2.
Such a mixture is subject to an anti-dumping duty if the K2O content of the mixture or blend is 35 % or more, by weight, of the dry anhydrous product.
In cases where goods have been damaged before entry into free circulation and, therefore, the price actually paid or payable is apportioned for the determination of the customs value pursuant to Article 145 of Commission Regulation (EEC) No 2454/93, the amount of anti-dumping duty, calculated on the basis of the fixed amounts set out above, shall be reduced by a percentage which corresponds to the apportioning of the price actually paid or payable. 5.
Done at Brussels, 8 May 2000.
