CHAPTER II Agricultural plant species Article 2 Authorisation 1.
For agricultural plant species covered by Directives 66/401/EEC, 66/402/EEC, 2002/54/EC, 2002/56/EC and 2002/57/EC, Member States may authorise producers established in their own territory to place on the market seed belonging to a variety for which an application for entry in the national catalogue of varieties of agricultural plant species (the national catalogue) has been submitted to the Member State in question, subject to compliance with Articles 3 to 18 of this Decision. 2.
Article 3 Application 1.
Article 4 Purpose Authorisations shall only be granted for tests or trials carried out at agricultural enterprises to gather information on the cultivation or use of the variety.
Article 5 Technical conditions 1.
Fodder plant seed shall comply with the conditions laid down in Annexes I and II to Directive 66/401/EEC for: (a) certified seed (all species other than Pisum sativum and Vicia faba); or (b) "certified seed, second generation" (Pisum sativum, Vicia faba). 2.
Cereal seed shall comply with the conditions laid down in Annexes I and II to Directive 66/402/EEC for: (a) certified seed (Phalaris canariensis, other than hybrids, Secale cereale, Sorghum bicolor, Sorghum sudanense, Zea mays and hybrids of Avena sativa, Hordeum vulgare, Oryza sativa, Triticum aestivum, Triticum durum, Triticum spelta and x Triticosecale other than self-pollinating varieties); or (b) "certified seed, second generation" (Avena sativa, Hordeum vulgare, Oryza sativa, Triticum aestivum, Triticum durum, Triticum spelta and self-pollinating varieties of x Triticosecale, other than hybrids in each case). 3.
Seed potatoes shall comply with the conditions laid down in Annexes I and II to Directive 2002/56/EC for certified seed potatoes. 5.
Seed of oil and fibre plants shall comply with the conditions laid down in Annexes I and II to Directive 2002/57/EC for: (a) certified seed (all species other than Linum usitatissimum); (b) "certified seed, second and third generation" (Linum usitatissimum).
Article 6 Examination 1.
Compliance with the conditions referred to in Article 5 shall be assessed: (a) in the case of seed potatoes, by an official examination; (b) in the other case, by an official examination or an examination under official supervision. 2.
For the assessment of compliance with the conditions concerning varietal identity and varietal purity, the description of the variety as supplied by the applicant, or where applicable the provisional description of the variety based on the results of the official examination of distinctness, stability and uniformity of the variety, as provided for in Article 7 of Directive 2002/53/EC, shall be used. 3.
Article 7 Quantities The quantities authorised for each variety shall not exceed the following percentages of seed of the same species utilised yearly in the Member State(s) for which the seed is intended: (a) in the case of durum wheat: 0,05 %; (b) in the case of field pea, field bean, oats, barley and wheat: 0,3 %; (c) in all other cases: 0,1 %.
However, if such quantities are not sufficient to sow 10 ha per Member State for which the seed is intended, the quantity needed for such an area may be authorised.
Article 8 Packages and sealing Seed may be marketed only in closed packages or containers bearing a sealing device.
Seed packages and containers shall be sealed officially or under official supervision in such a manner that they cannot be opened without damaging the sealing system or leaving evidence of tampering on either the official label provided for in Article 9 or on the package.
Article 9 Labelling 1.
Article 10 Chemical treatment Any chemical treatment shall be noted either on the official label provided for in Article 9, or on a supplier’s label and on the package, or inside it, or on the container.
Article 11 Time period Without prejudice to Articles 13 and 14, authorisations granted in accordance with the provisions of this Decision shall be valid for a period not exceeding one year and shall be renewable in accordance with Article 12.
Article 12 Renewal of authorisations 1.
Article 13 Cessation of validity Authorisations shall cease to be valid if the application for entry in the national catalogue is withdrawn or rejected, or the variety is entered in the catalogue.
Article 15 Reporting obligations 1.
Article 16 Maintenance checks The authorising Member State may check maintenance of the variety.
Article 17 Notification Member States shall notify each other and the Commission of the following: (a) an application, as soon as this is received, or the rejection of an application for authorisation; and (b) the grant, renewal, revocation or withdrawal of an authorisation.
Article 18 Exchange of information Member States shall use the existing computerised information exchange systems to facilitate the exchange of information as regards the connection with the application for acceptance of varieties into the national catalogues and the authorisation for seed of varieties not yet listed.
Article 19 Publication of a list of varieties The Commission may, on the basis of the information supplied by the Member States, publish a list of varieties that have been authorised.
CHAPTER III Vegetable species Article 20 Authorisation 1.
For vegetable species covered by Directive 2002/55/EC, Member States may authorise breeders established on their own territory to place on the market seed belonging to a variety for which an application for inclusion in a national catalogue of varieties of vegetable species (the national catalogue) has been submitted in at least one Member State and for which specific technical information has been submitted in the Member State(s) in question, subject to compliance with Articles 21 to 37 of this Decision. 2.
Member States shall ensure that when an authorisation has been granted in accordance with this Decision, the authorisation holder shall comply with any condition or restrictions attached to such authorisation.
Article 22 Purpose The authorisation shall only be granted for the purpose of gaining knowledge from practical experience during cultivation.
Article 23 Technical conditions Vegetable seed shall comply with the conditions laid down in Annex II to Directive 2002/55/EC.
Article 24 Examination 1.
Vegetable seed shall be subject to official post-control by check inspection to verify its varietal identity and varietal purity on the basis of the description of the variety as supplied by the applicant, or where available the provisional description of the variety based on the results of the official examination of distinctness, stability and uniformity of the variety as provided for in Article 7 of Directive 2002/55/EC. 2.
Article 25 Genetically modified varieties In the case of a genetically modified variety, the authorisation may be granted only if all appropriate measures have been taken to avoid adverse effects on human health and the environment.
Article 26 Supplier The persons responsible for affixing the label or printing or stamping notice on the packages shall: (a) inform the Member State of the dates when their activities begin and end; (b) keep records of all lots of seed and make them available to the Member States for not less than three years; (c) draw samples from each lot intended for marketing and make them available to Member States for not less than two years.
Article 27 Packages and sealing Seed may be marketed only in closed packages bearing a sealing device.
Seed packages shall be sealed in such a manner that they cannot be opened without damaging the sealing device or leaving evidence of tampering either on the label provided for in Article 28 or on the package.
Article 28 Labelling 1.
Article 30 Time period Without prejudice to Articles 32 and 33, authorisations granted in accordance with the provisions of this Decision shall be valid for a period not exceeding one year and shall be renewable in accordance with Article 31.
Article 31 Renewal of authorisations 1.
Without prejudice to Articles 32 and 33, authorisations referred to in Article 20 shall be renewable, maximum twice for a period not exceeding one year each. 2.
Article 32 Cessation of validity Authorisations shall cease to be valid, if the application for entry in the national catalogue is withdrawn or rejected, or the variety is entered in the catalogue.
Article 34 Reporting obligations 1.
Article 35 Maintenance checks The authorising Member State may check maintenance of the variety.
Article 36 Notification Member States shall notify each other and the Commission of the following: (a) an application, as soon as this is received, or the rejection of an application for authorisation; and (b) the grant, renewal, revocation or withdrawal of an authorisation.
Article 37 Exchange of information Member States shall use the existing computerised information exchange systems to facilitate the exchange of information as regards the connection with the application for acceptance of varieties into the national catalogues and the authorisation for seed of varieties not yet listed.
Article 38 Publication of a list of varieties The Commission may, on the basis of the information supplied by the Member States, publish a list of varieties that have been authorised.
CHAPTER IV Article 39 Addressees This Decision is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 1 December 2004.
