Where transitional measures are necessary under the common agricultural policy in order to facilitate the switch-over from the existing arrangements to those resulting from the requirements of the agreements referred to in Article 1, such measures shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 38 of Regulation No 136/66/EEC (6) or, as appropriate, the corresponding Articles in the other Regulations on the common organization of agricultural markets, or in Regulation (EC) No 3448/93 (7).
The Council, acting on a proposal from the Commission in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 43 (2) of the Treaty, will decide on any amendments arising out of the results and conclusions of that report.
It shall apply from 1 July 1995.
However: (a) Article 3 and Article 4 (2) shall apply from 1 January 1995; (b) the provisions laid down in the Annexes on import duties and additional import duties which apply to products listed in Annexes XIII and XVI for which an entry price is applicable shall apply during 1995 as from the commencement of the marketing year for the products concerned in 1995; (c) the provisions on export refunds shall apply: - as from 1 September 1995 as regards Annexes II and XVI, - as from 1 October 1995 as regards Annex IV, - as from 1 November 1995 as regards Annex V; (d) the provisions laid down in Annex XV shall apply as from 1 January 1995; (e) the provisions laid down in Annex XVI, I.2, shall apply as from 1 January 1996.
Done at Brussels, 22 December 1994.
SEEHOFER (1) OJ No L 148, 28. 6. 1968, p. 24.
Regulation as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 1884/94 (OJ No L 197, 30. 7. 1994, p. 27). (2) Opinion delivered on 14 December 1994 (not yet published in the Official Journal). (3) OJ No L 47, 25. 2. 1993, p. 1.
Regulation as last amended by Commission Regulation (EC) No 3518/93 (OJ No L 320, 22. 12. 1993, p. 15). (4) OJ No L 197, 18. 7. 1987, p. 33 (5) OJ No L 84, 27. 3. 1987, p. 1.
Regulation as last amended by Regulation (EEC) No 1891/94 (OJ No L 197, 30. 7. 1994, p. 42). (6) OJ No 172, 30. 9. 1966, p. 3025/66. (7) OJ No L 318, 20. 12. 1993, p. 18.
LIST OF ANNEXES Annex I CEREALS Annex II RICE Annex III DRIED FODDER Annex IV SUGAR Annex V OILS AND FATS Annex VI FLAX AND HEMP Annex VII MILK PRODUCTS Annex VIII BEEF AND VEAL Annex IX SHEEPMEAT AND GOATMEAT Annex X PIGMEAT Annex XI POULTRYMEAT Annex XII EGGS, OVALBUMIN AND LACTALBUMIN Annex XIII FRUIT AND VEGETABLES Annex XIV PROCESSED FRUIT AND VEGETABLES Annex XV BANANAS Annex XVI WINE Annex XVII TOBACCO Annex XVIII HOPS Annex XIX LIVE TREES AND OTHER PLANTS, BULBS, ROOTS AND THE LIKE, CUT FLOWERS AND ORNAMENTAL FOLIAGE Annex XX SEEDS Annex XXI MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS Annex XXII THE OUTERMOST REGIONS ANNEX I CEREALS I.
Licences shall be issued by the Member States to any applicant, irrespective of his place of establishment in the Community and without prejudice to measures taken for the application of Articles 12 and 13.
Such licences shall be issued subject to the lodging of a security guaranteeing that the products are imported or exported during the term of validity of the licence; except in cases of force majeure, the security shall be forfeited in whole or in part if import or export is not carried out, or is only carried out partially, within that period. 2.
The term of validity of licences and other detailed rules for the application of this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 23.
Unless this Regulation provides otherwise, the rates of duty in the Common Customs Tariff shall apply to the products listed in Article 1. 2.
Notwithstanding paragraph 1, the import duty on products covered by CN codes ex 1001 other than merlin, 1002, 1003, ex 1005 other than hybrid seed, and ex 1007 other than hybrid for sowing, shall be equal to the intervention price valid for such products on importation and increased by 55 %, minus the cif, import price applicable to the consignment in question.
Detailed rules for the application of this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 23.
Without prejudice to Article 10 (2), in order to prevent or counteract adverse effects on the market in the Community which may result from imports of certain products listed in Article 1, imports of one or more of such products at the rate of duty laid down in Article 10 shall be subject to payment of an additional import duty if the conditions set out in Article 5 of the Agreement on Agriculture concluded in accordance with Article 228 of the Treaty in the framework of the Uruguay Round of multilateral trade negotiations have been fulfilled unless the imports are unlikely to disturb the Community market, or where the effects would be disproportionate to the intended objective. 2.
The trigger quantities which must be exceeded in order for an additional import duty to be imposed shall be determined, inter alia, on the basis of imports into the Community in the three years preceding that in which the adverse effects referred to in paragraph 1 arise or seem likely to arise. 3.
Cif import prices shall be checked to that end against the representative prices for the product on the world market or on the Community import market for that product. 4.
The Commission shall adopt detailed rules for the application of this Article in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 23.
Such detailed rules shall specify in particular: (a) the products to which additional import duties may be applied pursuant to Article 5 of the Agreement on Agriculture; (b) the other criteria necessary for application of paragraph 1 in accordance with Article 5 of the said Agreement.
Tariff quotas for the products listed in Article 1 resulting from agreements concluded in the framework of the Uruguay Round trade negotiations shall be opened and administered in accordance with detailed rules adopted under the procedure laid down in Article 23. 2.
The method of administration adopted shall, where appropriate, give due weight to the supply requirements of the Community market and the need to safeguard the equilibrium of that market, whilst at the same time possibly drawing on methods which may have been applied in the past to quotas corresponding to those referred to in paragraph 1, without prejudice to the rights resulting from agreements concluded in the framework of the Uruguay Round negotiations. 4.
To the extent necessary to enable the products listed in Article 1 to be exported without further processing or in the form of goods listed in Annex B on the basis of quotations or prices for those products on the world market and within the limits resulting from agreements concluded in accordance with Article 228 of the Treaty, the difference between those quotations or prices and prices in the Community may be covered by export refunds.
Export refunds on the products listed in Article 1 in the form of goods listed in Annex B may not be higher than those applicable to such products exported without further processing. 2.
Refunds shall be the same for the whole Community.
Refunds on products listed in Article 1 and exported without further processing shall only be granted on application and on presentation of the relevant export licence. 5.
The refund applicable to exports of products listed in Article 1 exported without further processing shall be that applicable on the day of application for the licence and, in the case of a differentiated refund, that applicable on the same day: (a) for the destination indicated on the licence or, where appropriate; (b) for the real destination, if it is not the same as that indicated on the licence.
Paragraphs 4 and 5 may be made to apply to products listed in Article 1 and exported in the form of goods listed in Annex B in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 16 of Regulation (EC) No 3448/93. 7.
Paragraphs 4 and 5 may be waived in the case of products listed in Article 1 on which refunds are paid under food-aid operations, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 23. 8.
Save as otherwise provided in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 23, the refund on products listed in Article 1 (1) (a) and (b) in accordance with paragraph 5 shall be adjusted in line with the level of the monthly increases applicable to the intervention price and, where appropriate, changes in that price.
A corrective amount may be fixed in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 23.
The first and second subparagraphs may be applied, in whole or in part, to products listed in Article 1 (1) (c) and (d) and to products listed in Article 1 and exported in the form of goods listed in Annex B.
Compliance with the limits on volumes arising from agreements concluded in accordance with Article 228 of the Treaty shall be ensured on the basis of the export certificates issued for the reference periods provided for therein and applicable to the products concerned.
Detailed rules for the application of this Article, including the arrangements for redistributing unallocated and unused quantities, and in particular those on the adaptation provided for in paragraph 9 shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 23.
Annex B shall be amended in accordance with the same procedure.
However, detailed rules for the application of paragraph 6 to products referred to in Article 1 and exported in the form of goods referred to in the Annex, shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 16 of Regulation (EC) No 3448/93.
To the extent necessary for the proper working of the common organization of the market in cereals, the Council, acting in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 43 (2) of the Treaty on a proposal from the Commission, may prohibit in whole or in part the use of inward processing arrangements: - in respect of products listed in Article 1 which are intended for the manufacture of products listed in Article 1 (1) (c) and (d), and - in special cases, in respect of products listed in Article 1 which are intended for the manufacture of goods listed in Annex B. 2.
By way of derogation from paragraph 1, if the situation referred to in paragraph 1 arises with exceptional urgency and the Community market is disturbed or is liable to be disturbed by inward processing arrangements, the Commission shall, at the request of a Member State or on its own initiative, decide upon the necessary measures; the Council and the Member States shall be notified of such measures, which shall be valid for no more than six months and shall be immediately applicable.
If the Commission receives a request from a Member State, it shall take a decision thereon within a week following receipt of the request. 3.
The general rules for the interpretation of the combined nomenclature and the special rules for its application shall apply to the tariff classification of products covered by this Regulation; the tariff nomenclature resulting from the application of this Regulation shall be incorporated in the Common Customs Tariff. 2.
Save as otherwise provided for in this Regulation or pursuant to a provision thereof, the following shall be prohibited in trade with third countries; - the levying of any charge having equivalent effect to a customs duty, - the application of any quantitative restriction or measure having equivalent effect.
Where the quotations or prices on the world market for one or more of the products listed in Article 1 reach the level of Community prices and where that situation is likely to continue and to deteriorate, thereby disturbing or threatening to disturb the Community market, appropriate measures may be taken. 2.
Detailed rules for the application of this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 23.
If, by reason of an increase in imports or exports, the Community market in one or more of the products listed in Article 1 is affected by, or is threatened with, serious disturbance likely to jeopardize the achievement of the objectives set out in Article 39 of the Treaty, appropriate measures may be applied in trade with third countries until such disturbance or threat of disturbance has ceased.
The Council, acting on a proposal from the Commission in accordance with the voting procedure laid down in Article 43 (2) of the Treaty, shall adopt the general rules for application of this paragraph and shall determine the cases and limits within which Member States may take protective measures. 2.
If the situation referred to in paragraph 1 arises, the Commission shall, at the request of a Member State or on its own initiative, decide upon the necessary measures; the Member States shall be notified of such measures, which shall be immediately applicable.
If the Commission receives a request from a Member State, it shall take a decision thereon within three working days following receipt of the request. 3.
Measures decided upon by the Commission may be referred to the Council by any Member State within three working days of the day on which they were notified.
ANNEX II RICE I.
Licences shall be issued by the Member States to any applicant, irrespective of his place of establishment in the Community and without prejudice to measures taken for the application of Articles 14 and 15.
Such licences shall be issued subject to the lodging of a security guaranteeing that the products are imported or exported during the term of validity of the licence; except in cases of force majeure, the security shall be forfeited in whole or in part if import or export is not carried out, or is only carried out partially, within that period. 2.
The term of validity of licences and other detailed rules for the application of this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 27.
The subsidy shall be fixed periodically in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 27.
The detailed rules for the application of this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 27.
Unless this Regulation provides otherwise, the rates of duty in the Common Customs Tariff shall apply to the products listed in Article 1. 2.
Notwithstanding paragraph 1, the import duty on: (a) husked rice covered by CN code 1006 20 shall be equal to the intervention price valid for indica rice and japonica rice respectively on importation, increased by: - 80 % in the case of indica rice, and - 88 % in the case of japonica rice, minus the import price; and (b) wholly milled rice covered by CN code 1006 30 shall be equal to the intervention price at the time of importation, plus a percentage to be calculated and minus the import price.
Notwithstanding paragraph 1: (a) no duty shall be charged on imports of products covered by CN codes 1006 10, 1006 20 or 1006 40 00 into the French overseas department of Réunion, intended for consumption there; (b) the duty to be charged on imports of products covered by CN code 1006 30 into the French overseas department of Réunion, intended for consumption there shall be multiplied by a coefficient of 0,30. 4.
Detailed rules for the application of this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 27.
Without prejudice to Article 12 (2), in order to prevent or counteract adverse effects on the market in the Community which may result from imports of certain products listed in Article 1, imports of one or more of such products at the rate of duty laid down in Article 10 shall be subject to payment of an additional import duty if the conditions set out in Article 5 of the Agreement on Agriculture concluded in accordance with Article 228 of the Treaty in the framework of the Uruguay Round of multilateral trade negotiations have been fulfilled unless the imports are unlikely to disturb the Community market, or where the effects would be disproportionate to the intended objective. 2.
The cif import prices shall be verified for this purpose on the basis of representative prices for the product in question on the world market or on the Community import market for the product. 4.
The Commission shall adopt detailed rules for the application of this Article in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 27.
Such detailed rules shall specify in particular: (a) the products to which additional import duties may be applied under the terms of Article 5 of the Agreement on Agriculture; (b) the other criteria necessary to ensure application of paragraph 1 in accordance with Article 5 of the Agreement of Agriculture.
To the extent necessary to enable the products listed in Article 1 to be exported without further processing or in the form of goods listed in Annex B on the basis of quotations or prices for those products on the world market and within the limits resulting from agreements concluded in accordance with Article 228 of the Treaty, the difference between those quotations or prices and prices in the Community may be covered by an export refund.
Export refunds on the products listed in Article 1 in the form of goods listed in Annex B may not be higher than those applicable to such products exported without further processing. 2.
Refunds shall be the same for the whole Community.
The following shall be taken into account when refunds are being fixed: (a) the existing situation and future trends with regard to: - prices and availability of rice and broken rice on the Community market; - prices of rice and broken rice on the world market; (b) the aims of the common organization of the market in rice, which are to ensure equilibrium and the natural development of prices and trade on this market; (c) limits resulting from agreements concluded in accordance with Article 228 of the Treaty; (d) the need to avoid disturbances on the Community market; (e) the economic aspect of the proposed exports.
Refunds for products listed in Article 1 (1) (a) and (b) shall be fixed in accordance with the following specific criteria: (a) prices for those products obtaining on the various representative export markets of the Community; (b) the most favourable quotations recorded on the various markets of importing third countries; and (c) marketing costs and the most favourable transport charges from the Community markets referred to in (a) to ports or other points of export in the Community serving these markets, as well as costs incurred in placing the goods on the world market. 6.
Refunds on products listed in Article 1 and exported without further processing shall only be granted on application and on presentation of the relevant export licence. 8.
The refund applicable to exports of products listed in Article 1 exported without further processing shall be that applicable on the day of application for the licence and, in the case of a differentiated refund, that applicable on the same day for: (a) the destination indicated on the licence; or (b) the actual destination if it differs from the destination indicated on the licence.
Paragraphs 7 and 8 may be able to apply to products listed in Article 1 and exported in the form of goods listed in Annex B in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 16 of Regulation (EC) No 3448/93. 10.
Paragraphs 7 and 8 may be waived in the case of products listed in Article 1 on which refunds are paid under food-aid operations, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 27. 11.
Save as otherwise provided in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 27, the refund on products listed in Article 1 (1) (a) and (b) applicable in accordance with paragraph 4 shall be adjusted in line with the amount of monthly increases applicable to the intervention price and, where appropriate, variations in that price, depending on the degree of processing and using the applicable conversion rate.
A corrective amount may be fixed in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 27.
The first and second subparagraphs may be applied, in whole or in part, to products listed in Article 1 (1) (c) and to products listed in Article 1 and exported in the form of goods listed in Annex B.
The compensatory amount shall be: - in the case of husked rice, equal to the difference between the target price valid for the last month of the marketing year and that valid for the first month of the new marketing year, - in the case of paddy rice, equal to that difference adjusted by the conversion rate.
The refund on the products referred to in Article 1 (a) and (b) shall be paid upon proof that: - the products, in the case of paddy rice and husked rice, are of Community origin, except where paragraph 14 applies, - the products have been exported from the Community, and - in the case of a differentiated refund, the products have reached the destination indicated on the licence or another destination for which a refund was fixed, without prejudice to paragraph 8 (b).
Exceptions may be made to this rule in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 27, provided conditions are laid down which offer equivalent guarantees.
Additional provisions may be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 27. 14.
No export refund shall be granted on paddy rice and husked rice which is imported from third countries and re-exported to third countries, unless the exporter proves: - that the product to be exported and the product previously imported are one and the same, and - that the levy was collected on importation.
In such cases the refund on each product shall be equal to the duties collected on importation where the latter are lower than the refund applicable; where the duties collected on importation are higher than that refund, the latter shall apply. 15.
Compliance with the limits on volumes arising from agreements concluded in accordance with Article 228 of the Treaty shall be ensured on the basis of the export certificates issued for the reference periods provided for therein and applicable to the products concerned.
Detailed rules for the application of this Article, including provisions concerning the reallocation of quantities exported not allocated or not used, in particular as regards the adjustment referred to in paragraph 11, shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 27.
Annex B shall be amended in accordance with the same procedure.
However, detailed rules for the application of paragraph 7 to products referred to in Article 1 and exported in the form of goods referred to in the Annex shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 16 of Regulation (EC) No 3448/93.
To the extent necessary for the proper working of the common organization of the market in rice, the Council, acting on a proposal from the Commission in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 43 (2) of the Treaty, may in special cases prohibit in whole or in part the use of inward or outward processing arrangements in respect of products listed in Article 1. 2.
By way of derogation from paragraph 1, if the situation referred to in paragraph 1 arises with exceptional urgency and the Community market is disturbed or is liable to be disturbed by the inward or outward processing arrangements, the Commission shall, at the request of a Member State or on its own initiative, decide upon the necessary measures; the Council and the Member States shall be notified of such measures, which shall be valid for no more than six months and shall be immediately applicable.
If the Commission receives a request from a Member State, it shall take a decision thereon within a week following receipt of the request. 3.
If the Council has not acted within three months, the Commission decision shall be deemed to have been repealed.
The general rules for the interpretation of the combined nomenclature and the special rules for its application shall apply to the tariff classification of products covered by this Regulation; the tariff nomenclature resulting from the application of this Regulation, including the definitions listed in Annex A, shall be incorporated in the Common Customs Tariff. 2.
Quotations or prices on the world market shall be regarded as having reached the level of Community prices when they approach or exceed the intervention buying-in price for indica and japonica rice, increased by: - 80 % in the case of indica rice, and - 80 % in the case of japonica rice. 3.
Where the conditions specified in this Article are met, the following measures may be taken: - application of an export levy; in addition, a special export levy may be determined by a tendering procedure in respect of a fixed quantity, - fixing of a time limit for the issue of export licences, - total or partial suspension of the issue of export licences, - total or partial rejection of outstanding applications for the issue of export licences.
The following shall be taken into account when an export levy is being fixed for products listed in Article 1 (1) (a) and (b): (a) the existing situation and the future trend with regard to: - prices and availability of rice on the Community market, - prices for rice and products processed in the rice sector on the world market; (b) the aims of the common organization of the markets in the rice sector, which are to ensure equilibrium for both supply and trade; (c) the need to avoid disturbances on the Community market; (d) the economic aspect of the exports. 7.
In addition, the following specific factors shall be taken into account: (a) prices obtaining for broken rice on the various Community markets; (b) the quantity of broken rice necessary to manufacture the products under consideration and, where appropriate, the value of the by-products; (c) sale opportunities and conditions for the products in question on the world market. 8.
Where the situation on the world market and the specific requirements of certain markets so require, the export levy may be differentiated. 9.
The export levy to be charged shall be the one applicable on the day of export.
No levy may be applied to exports carried out under food-aid arrangements pursuant to Article 25. 11.
Detailed rules for the application of this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 27.
In accordance with the same procedure and for each of the products: - a decision shall be taken to establish the measures listed in paragraph 5 and put an end to the measures listed in the second and third indents of that paragraph, - the export levy shall be fixed periodically.
Where necessary, the Commission may establish or modify the export levy. 12.
If, by reason of imports or exports, the Community market in one or more of the products listed in Article 1, is affected by, or is threatened with, serious disturbance likely to jeopardize the achievement of the objectives set out in Article 39 of the Treaty, appropriate measures may be applied in trade with third countries until such disturbance or threat of disturbance has ceased.
The Council, acting on a proposal from the Commission in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 43 (2) of the Treaty, shall adopt the general rules for the application of this paragraph and shall define in what cases and within what limits Member States may take protective measures. 2.
If the Commission receives a request from a Member State, it shall take a decision thereon within three working days following receipt of the request. 3.
If, by reason of an increase in imports or exports, the Community market in one or more of the products listed in Article 1 is affected by, or is threatened with, serious disturbance likely to jeopardize the achievement of the objectives set out in Article 39 of the Treaty, appropriate measures may be applied in trade with third countries until such disturbance or threat of disturbance has ceased.
The Council, acting on a proposal from the Commission in accordance with the voting procedure laid down in Article 43(2) of the Treaty, shall adopt the general rules for application of this paragraph and shall determine the cases and limits within which Member States may take protective measures. 2.
If the situation referred to in paragraph 1 arises, the Commission shall, at the request of a Member State or on its own initiative, decide upon the necessary measures; the Member States shall be notified of such measures, which shall be immediately applicable.
If the Commission receives a request from a Member State, it shall take a decision thereon within three working days following receipt of the request. 3.
Measures decided upon by the Commission may be referred to the Council by any Member State within three working days of the day on which they were notified.
Licences shall be issued by the Member States to any applicant, irrespective of his place of establishment in the Community and without prejudice to measures taken for the application of Articles 16 and 17.
Such licences shall be issued subject to the lodging of a security guaranteeing that the products are imported or exported during the term of validity of the licence; except in cases of force majeure the security shall be forfeited in whole or in part if import or export is not carried out, or is only carried out partially, within that period. 2.
In accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 41: (a) the scheme provided for by this Article may be extended to cover the products listed in Article 1 (1) (e); (b) the term of validity of licences and other detailed rules for the application of his Article, which may lay down in particular a time limit for the issue of licences, shall be adopted.
Unless this Regulation provides otherwise, the rates of duty in the Common Custom Tariff shall apply to the products listed in Article 1. 2.
Notwithstanding paragraph 1, to ensure that the Community market is adequately supplied with the products listed in Article 1 (1) (a) (raw sugar for refining falling within CN codes 1701 11 10 an 1701 12 10) and Article 1 (1) (c) (molasses) by means of imports from third countries, the Commission may, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 41, suspend in whole or in part the application of import duties on these products, and establish the arrangements for any such suspension.
In order to prevent or counteract adverse effects on the market in the Community which may result from imports of certain agricultural products, imports of one or more of such products at the rate of duty laid down in the Common Customs Tariff shall be subject to payment of an additional import duty if the conditions set out in Article 5 of the Agreement on Agriculture concluded in accordance with Article 228 of the Treaty in the framework of the Uruguay Round of multilateral trade negotiations have been fulfilled, unless the imports are unlikely to disturb the Community market, or where the effects would be disproportionate to the intended objective. 2.
The trigger volumes to be exceeded in order to have the additional import duty imposed shall in particular be determined on the basis of imports into the Community in the three years preceding the year in which the adverse effects referred to in paragraph 1 arise or are likely to arise. 3.
Cif import prices shall be checked to that end against the representative prices for the product on the world market or on the Community import market for that product. 4.
The Commission shall adopt detailed rules for the application of this Article in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 41.
Such detailed rules shall specify in particular: (a) the products to which additional import duties shall apply under the terms of Article 5 of the Agreement on Agriculture; (b) the other criteria necessary to ensure application of paragraph 1 in accordance with Article 5 of the Agreement on Agriculture.
Standard quality may be determined in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 41.
Tariff quotas for the products listed in Article 1 resulting from agreements concluded in the framework of the Uruguay Round of multilateral trade negotiations shall be opened and administered in accordance with detailed rules adopted under the procedure laid down in Article 41. 2.
The method of administration adopted shall, where appropriate, give due weight to the supply requirements of the Community market and the need to safeguard the equilibrium of that market, whilst at the same time possibly drawing on methods which may have been applied in the past to quotas corresponding to those referred to in paragraph 1, without prejudice to the rights resulting from agreements concluded in the framework of the Uruguay Round negotiations. 4.
The refund applicable to products listed in Article 1 exported in the form of goods listed in Annex I shall not be greater than that applicable to these products exported without further processing. 4.
The method to be adopted for the allocation of the quantities which may be exported with a refund shall be the method which: (a) is most suited to the nature of the product and the situation on the market in question, allowing the most efficient possible use of the resources available, account being taken of the efficiency and structure of Community exports without, however, creating discrimination between large and small operators; (b) is least cumbersome administratively for operators, account being taken of administration requirements; (c) prevents any discrimination between the operators concerned. 5.
Refunds shall be the same for the whole Community.
The provisions of Articles 17a, 17b and 17c concerning products not denatured and exported without further processing listed in Article 1 (1) (a), (c) and (d) shall apply in addition. 6.
Refunds on products listed in paragraph 1 and exported without further processing shall only be granted on application an on presentation of the relevant export licence. 8.
The refund applicable to exports of products listed in Article 1 exported without further processing shall be that applicable on the day of application for the licence and, in the case of a differentiated refund, that applicable on the same day: (a) for the destination indicated on the licence; or (b) for the actual destination if it differs from the destination indicated on the licence.
Appropriate measures may be taken to prevent abuse of the flexibility provided for in this paragraph. 9.
Paragraphs 5 and 6 may be made to apply to products listed in Article 1 and exported in the form of goods listed in Annex I in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 16 of Regulation (EC) No 3448/93. 10.
Paragraphs 5 and 6 may be waived in the case of products listed in Article 1 on which refunds are paid under food-aid operations, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 41. 11.
The refund shall be paid upon proof: - that the products have been exported from the Community, and - that, in the case of a differentiated refund, the products have reached the destination indicated on the licence or another destination for which a refund was fixed, without prejudice to paragraph 6 (b).
However, exceptions may be made to this rule in accordance with the procedure laid down in paragraph 41, provided that conditions are laid down which offer equivalent guarantees.
Supplementary provisions may be laid down in accordance with the procedure provided for in Article 41. 12.
No refund shall be granted on exports in the natural state of the not denatured products referred to in Article 1 (1) (a) unless, depending on the case, they have been: (a) obtained from sugar beet or sugar cane harvested within the Community; (b) imported into the Community in accordance with Article 33; (c) obtained from one of the products imported pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (b). 13.
No refund shall be granted on exports in the natural state of the not denatured products referred to in Article 1 (c) and (d) which are not of Community origin or which have not been obtained from sugars imported into the Community in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 8b (b) or from the products referred to in paragraph 8b (c). 14.
Compliance with the limits on volumes arising from agreements concluded in accordance with Article 228 of the Treaty shall be ensured on the basis of the export licences issued for the reference periods provided for therein and applicable to the products concerned. 15.
The detailed rules for the application of this Article, including the arrangements for redistributing unallocated or unused exportable quantities, and the amendment of Annex I shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 41.
As regards the periodic fixing of refunds for the products referred to in Article 1 (1) (a): (a) the refunds shall be fixed every two weeks.
In that event, no refund shall be granted; (b) when the refund is being fixed, the situation on the Community and world markets in sugar, and in particular the following, shall be taken into account: - the intervention price for white sugar for the Community area with the largest surplus or the intervention price for raw sugar for the Community area which is considered to be representative for the exportation of this type of sugar, - the costs of transporting sugar from the areas referred to in (a) to ports or other points of export in the Community, - trade expenses and any transhipment, transport and packaging charges incurred in marketing sugar on the world market, - quotations or prices recorded for sugar on the world market, and - the economic aspect of the proposed exports. 3.
Where the refund is fixed by tender for the products referred to in Article 1 (1) (a): (a) the purpose of the tender shall be to determine the amount of the refund; (b) the competent authorities of the Member States shall invite tenders in accordance with an instrument binding in law in all Member States.
The maximum amount of the refund for the invitation in question shall be fixed in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 41 within three working days following the expiry of the time limit and in the light of the tenders received.
A maximum tonnage may be fixed in accordance with the same procedure; (d) where exports can be effected on the basis of a refund which is lower than that which would result from taking the difference between prices within the Community and prices on the world market into account and where exports are for a specific destination, the competent authorities of the Member States may be required to issue a special invitation to tender, the terms of which shall include: - the possibility of submitting tenders at any time until the tendering procedure is terminated, and - a maximum amount of the refund, calculated in the light of requirements for the exports in question; (e) if the amount of the refund shown in a tender: - exceeds the maximum fixed, the competent authorities of the Member States shall reject that tender, - does not exceed the maximum, those authorities shall fix the refund at an amount equal to the refund appearing in the tender in question. 4.
The refund on raw sugar: (a) shall be fixed for the standard quality defined in Article 1 of Regulation (EEC) No 431/68; (b) fixed periodically in accordance with paragraph 2 (a): - may not exceed 92 % of the refund for white sugar for the same period.
However, this limit shall not apply to refunds to be fixed for candy sugar, - shall for each exporting operation under consideration be multiplied by a conversion factor which shall be obtained by dividing the yield of the raw sugar exported, calculated in accordance with the provisions of Article 1 of Regulation (EEC) No 431/68, by 92; (c) the maximum amount fixed pursuant to paragraph 3 (c) within the framework of a tender may not exceed 92 % of the maximum amount fixed at the same time for white sugar pursuant to that paragraph.
The refund on the not denatured products exported in the natural state listed in Article 1 (1) (c), shall be fixed each month, account being taken of: (a) the price of molasses used to determine receipts from the sale of molasses for the sugar year in question pursuant to Article 4 (2); (b) prices and potential outlets for molasses on the Community market; (c) quotations or prices recorded for molasses on the world market; and (d) the economic aspect of the proposed exports.
However, such periodic fixing may be discontinued in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 41 if the periodic fixing of the refund on white sugar not further processed, is suspended.
The application of the basic amount of the refund may be limited to some of the products listed in Article 1 (1) (d).
To the extent necessary for the proper working of the common organization of the markets in the sugar sector, the Council, acting in accordance with the voting procedure laid down in Article 43 (2) of the Treaty on a proposal from the Commission, may prohibit in whole or in part the use of inward processing arrangements: - in respect of products listed in Article 1 (1) (a) and (d), and - in special cases, in respect of products listed in Article 1 (1) which are intended for the manufacture of goods listed in Annex I. 2.
By way of derogation from paragraph 1, if the situation referred to in paragraph 1 arises with exceptional urgency and the Community market is disturbed or is liable to be disturbed by inward or outward processing arrangements, the Commission shall, at the request of a Member State or on its own initiative, decide upon the necessary measures; the Council and the Member States shall be notified of such measures, which shall be valid for no more than six months and shall be immediately applicable.
If the Commission receives a request from a Member State, it shall take a decision thereon within a week following receipt of the request. 3.
If the Council has not acted within three months, the Commission decision shall be deemed to have been repealed.
The general rules for the interpretation of the combined nomenclature and the special rules for its application shall apply to the tariff classification of products covered by this Regulation; the tariff nomenclature resulting from the application of this Regulation shall b incorporated in the Common Customs Tariff. 2.
Save as otherwise provided for in this Regulation or pursuant to a provision thereof, the following shall be prohibited in trade with third countries: (a) the levying of any charge having equivalent effect to a customs duty; (b) the application of any quantitative restriction or measure having equivalent effect.
This levy must be applied when the cif price of white sugar or raw sugar is greater than the intervention price plus an amount equal to the sum of 10 % of the intervention price and the storage levy applicable during the marketing year concerned.
Except in the case of tendering, the levy to be charged shall be that applicable on the day of export. 2.
Where it is established that: (a) supplies to the Community or; (b) supplies to a major consumption region in the Community; cannot be ensured from Community availability, the Council, acting on a proposal from the Commission in accordance with the voting procedure laid down in Article 43 (2) of the Treaty, shall decide to grant the import subsidy and determine the conditions for its application.
The following shall be decided in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 41: (a) the cif prices referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2; (b) the other arrangements for implementation of this Article.
If, by reason of imports or exports, the Community market in one or more of the products listed in Article 1 is affected by, or is threatened with, serious disturbance likely to jeopardize the achievement of the objectives set out in Article 39 of the Treaty, appropriate measures may be applied in trade with third countries until such disturbance or threat of disturbance has ceased.
The Council, acting in accordance with the voting procedure laid down in Article 43 (2) of the Treaty on a proposal from the Commission, shall adopt the general rules for implementing this paragraph and shall define the cases and limits within which the Member States may take protective measures. 2.
If the Commission receives a request from a Member State, is shall take a decision thereon within three working days following receipt of the request. 3.
Measures decided upon by the Commission may be referred to the Council by any Member State within three working days of the day on which they were notified.
ANNEX V OILS AND FATS I.
Imports into the Community of any of the products listed in Article 1 (2) (c) or of the products falling within CN codes 0709 90 39, 0711 20 90, 2306 90 19, 1522 00 31, 1522 00 39 shall be subject to presentation of an import licence.
Licences shall be issued by the Member States to any applicant, irrespective of his place of establishment in the Community and without prejudice to measures taken for the application of Article 3.
Such licences shall be issued subject to the lodging of a security guaranteeing that the products are imported or exported during the term of validity of the licence; save in cases of force majeure, the security shall be forfeited in whole or in part if import or export is not carried out, or is only carried out partially, within that period. 2.
The term of validity of licences and other detailed rules for the application of this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 38.
Article 2a Save as otherwise provided for in this Regulation, the rates of duty in the Common Customs Tariff shall apply to the products listed in Article 1 (2).
The Commission shall adopt detailed rules for the application of this Article in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 38.
Such detailed rules shall specify in particular: (a) the products to which additional import duties shall be applied, in accordance with Article 5 of the Agreement on Agriculture; (b) the other criteria necessary for application of paragraph 1 in accordance with Article 5 of the said Agreement.
To the extent necessary to enable the olive oil and colza and rape seed harvested in the Community to be exported on the basis of quotations or prices for those products on the world market and within the limits resulting from agreements concluded in accordance with Article 228 of the Treaty, the difference between those quotations or prices and prices in the Community may be covered by export refunds. 2.
Refunds shall be the same for the whole Community.
They may vary according to destination where the situation on the world market or the specific requirements of certain markets make this necessary.
Refunds for olive oil shall be fixed in the light of: (a) the situation and likely trends: - on the Community market, with respect to olive oil prices and supplies, - on the world market, with respect to olive oil prices; (b) the limits resulting from the agreements concluded in accordance with Article 228 of the Treaty.
The amount of the refund may not exceed the difference between the price of olive oil in the Community and that on the world market, adjusted if appropriate to take account of the costs of exporting the products to that market. 5.
Refunds for colza and rape seed shall be fixed in the light of: (a) the prices obtaining in the Community on the different representative markets for processing and export and the level of market prices in the Community for colza and rape seed and the likely trends in these prices; (b) the situation in the Community regarding the supply of these products in relation to demand; (c) the most favourable prices recorded on the various markets of the importing third countries; (d) shipment costs on the world market; (e) the economic aspects of the exports proposed; (f) the limits arising out of the agreements concluded pursuant to Article 228 of the Treaty. 6.
Refunds shall be granted only on request and on presentation of the relevant export licence. 7.
The refund applicable to exports of olive oil and colza and rape seed shall be that applicable on the day of application for the licence and, in the case of a differentiated refund, that applicable on the same day: (a) for the destination indicated on the licence, or, if appropriate; (b) for the actual destination, if it differs from that indicated on the licence.
Paragraphs 6 and 7 may be waived in the case of olive oil and colza and rape seed on which refunds are paid under food-aid operations, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 38. 9.
Detailed rules for the application of this Article, including provisions concerning redistribution of unallocated or unused exportable quantities, shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 38.
The general rules for the interpretation of the combined nomenclature and the special rules for its application shall apply to the tariff classification of products covered by this Regulation; the tariff nomenclature resulting from the application of this Regulation shall be incorporated in the Common Customs Tariff. 2.
Save as otherwise provided for in this Regulation or in provisions adopted pursuant thereto, the following shall be prohibited in trade with third countries: - the levying of any charge having equivalent effect to a customs duty, - the application of any quantitative restriction or measure having equivalent effect.
If, by reason of imports or exports, the Community market in one or more of the products listed in Article 1 (2) is affected by or its threatened with, serious disturbance likely to jeopardize the achievement of the objectives set out in Article 39 of the Treaty, appropriate measures may be applied in trade with third countries until such disturbance or threat of disturbance has ceased.
The Council, acting on a proposal from the Commission in accordance with the voting procedure laid down in Article 43 (2) of the Treaty, shall adopt general rules for the implementation of this paragraph. 2.
If the Commission receives a request from a Member State, it shall take a decision thereon within three working days following receipt of the request. 3.
For olive oil which has not undergone a refining process, the amount of the levy may not exceed the cif price for olive oil less the representative market price fixed pursuant to Articles 4 and 6.
For olive oil which has undergone a refining process, the amount of the levy may not exceed the cif price referred to in the first subparagraph less the representative market price, the amount of the difference being weighted, as appropriate, by a weighting of 111 representing the quantity of virgin olive oil needed to produce 100 kg of refined olive oil or by a weighting of 149 representing the quantity of raw olive-residue oil needed to produce 100 kg of refined olive-residue oil. 3.
Olive oil used for the manufacture of preserved fish falling within CN code 1604, with the exception of subheading 1604 30, preserved crustaceans and molluscs falling within CN code 1605 and preserved vegetables falling within CN codes 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004 and 2005, shall benefit from a system of production refunds. 2.
Regulation (EEC) No 142/67 of 21 June 1967 (OJ No L 125, 26. 6 1967, p. 2461), as last amended by Regulation (EEC) No 2429/72 (OJ No L 264, 23. 11. 1972, p. 1) Regulation (EEC) No 143/67 of 21 June 1967 (OJ No L 125, 26. 6. 1967, p. 2463), as last amended by Regulation (EEC) No 2077/71 (OJ No L 220, 30. 9. 1972, p. 1) Regulation (EEC) No 19/69 of 20 December 1968 (OJ No L 3, 7. 1. 1969, p. 2), as last amended by Regulation (EEC) No 2429/72 (OJ No L 264, 23. 11. 1972, p. 1) Regulation (EEC) No 2596/69 of 18 December 1969 (OJ No L 324, 27. 12. 1969, p. 12) Regulation (EEC) No 1076/71 of 25 May 1971 (OJ No L 116, 28. 5. 1971, p. 2) Regulation (EEC) No 443/72 of 29 February 1972 (OJ No L 54, 3. 3. 1972, p. 3), as last amended by Regulation (EEC) No 2560/77 (OJ No L 303, 28. 11. 1977, p. 1) Regulation (EEC) No 1569/72 of 20 July 1972 (OJ No L 167, 25. 7. 1972, p. 9), as last amended by Regulation (EEC) No 2206/90 (OJ No L 201, 31. 1. 1990, p. 11) Regulation (EEC) No 2751/78 of 23 November 1978 (OJ No L 331, 28. 11. 1978, p. 5) Regulation (EEC) No 591/79 of 26 March 1979 (OJ No L 78, 30. 3. 1979, p. 2), as last amended by Regulation (EEC) No 2903/89 (OJ No L 280, 29. 9. 1989, p. 3) Regulation (EEC) No 1594/83 of 14 June 1983 (OJ No L 163, 22. 6. 1983, p. 44), as last amended by Regulation (EEC) No 1321/90 (OJ No L 132, 23. 5. 1990, p. 15) Regulation (EEC) No 1491/85 of 23 May 1985 (OJ No L 151, 10. 6. 1985, p. 15), as last amended by Regulation (EEC) No 1724/91 (OJ No L 162, 26. 6. 1991, p. 35) Regulation (EEC) No 2194/85 of 25 July 1985 (OJ No L 204, 2. 8. 1985, p. 7), as last amended by Regulation (EEC) No 1725/91 (OJ No L 162, 26. 6. 1991, p. 37) Regulation (EEC) No 1650/86 of 26 May 1986 (OJ No L 145, 30. 5. 1986, p. 8) The above Regulations are repealed.
ANNEX VI FLAX AND HEMP I.
Raw true hemp falling within CN code 5302 10 00 and coming from third countries may be imported only if the product meets the conditions laid down in Article 4 (1) and if evidence is produced that its tetrahydrocannabinol content is no higher than that referred to in Article 4 (4). 3.
Detailed rules for the implementation of this paragraph shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure provided for in Article 12.
If, by reason of imports or exports, the Community market in one or more of the products listed in Article 1 is affected by, or is threatened with, serious disturbance likely to jeopardize the achievement of the objectives set out in Article 39 of the Treaty, appropriate measures may be applied in trade with third countries until such disturbance or threat of disturbance has ceased.
The Council, acting on a proposal from the Commission in accordance with the voting procedure laid down in Article 43 (2) of the Treaty, shall adopt general rules for the implementation of the paragraph and define the cases and limits in which Member States may take precautionary measures. 2.
If the Commission receives a request from a Member State, it shall take a decision thereon within three working days of receipt of the request. 3.
Measures decided upon by the Commission may be referred to the Council by any Member State within three working days of the day on which they were notified.
This Article shall be applied having regard to the obligations arising from agreements concluded in accordance with Article 228 (2) of the Treaty.` II.
Council Regulation (EEC) No 2059/84 of 16 July 1984 (OJ No L 191, 19. 7. 1984, p. 6) Articles 2, 3 and 4 are deleted.
Council Regulation (EEC) No 1054/72 of 19 May 1972 (OJ No L 120, 25. 5. 1972, p. 1) The above Regulation is repealed.
ANNEX VII MILK PRODUCTS I.
Exports from the Community of any such products may be made subject to presentation of an export licence. 2.
Licences shall be issued by Member States to any applicant, irrespective of his place of establishment in the Community and without prejudice to the measures taken for the application of Articles 16 and 17.
Such licences shall be issued subject to the lodging of a security guaranteeing that the products are imported or exported during the term of validity of the licence; except in cases of force majeure, the security shall be forfeited in whole or in part if import or export is not carried out, or is carried out only partially, within that period. 3.
The following shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 30: (a) the list of products in respect of which export licences are required; (b) the term of validity of the licences; and (c) the other detailed rules for the application of this Article.
Article 14 Unless this Regulation provides otherwise, the rates of duty in the Common Customs Tariff shall apply to the products listed in Article 1.
In order to prevent or counteract adverse effects on the market in the community which may result from imports of certain products listed in Article 1, imports of one or more of such products at the rate of duty laid down in Article 10 shall be subject to payment of an additional import duty if the conditions set out in Article 5 of the Agreement on Agriculture concluded in accordance with Article 228 of the Treaty in the framework of the Uruguay Round of multilateral trade negotiations have been fulfilled unless the imports are unlikely to disturb the Community market, or where the effects would be disproportionate to the intended objective. 2.
The trigger volumes to be exceeded in order to have the additional import duty imposed shall be determined particularly on the basis of imports into the Community in the three years preceding the year in which the adverse effects referred to in paragraph 1 arise or are likely to arise. 3.
The import prices to be taken into consideration for imposing an additional import duty shall be determined on the basis of the cif import prices of the consignment under consideration.
Cif import prices shall be checked to that end against the representative prices for the product on the world market or on the Community import market for that product. 4.
The Commission shall adopt detailed rules for the application of this Article in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 30.
Such detailed rules shall specify in particular: (a) the products to which additional import duties shall be applied under the terms of Article 5 of the Agreement on Agriculture; (b) the other criteria necessary to ensure application of paragraph 1 in accordance with Article 5 of the Agreement on Agriculture.
Tariff quotas for the products listed in Article 1 resulting from agreements concluded in the framework of the Uruguay Round of multilateral trade negotiations shall be opened and administered in accordance with detailed rules adopted under the procedure laid down in Article 30. 2.
The method of administration adopted shall, where appropriate, give due weight to the supply requirements on the Community market and the need to safeguard the equilibrium of that market, whilst at the same time possibly drawing on methods which may have been applied in the past to quotas corresponding to those referred to in paragraph 1, without prejudice to the rights resulting from agreements concluded in the framework of the Uruguay Round negotiations. 4.
The method to be adopted for the allocation of the quantities which may be exported with a refund shall be the method which: (a) is most suited to the nature of the product and the situation on the market in question, allowing the most efficient possible use of the resources available, account being taken of the efficiency and structure of Community exports without, however, creating discrimination between large and small operators; (b) is least cumbersome administratively for operators, account being taken of administration requirements; (c) prevents any discrimination between the operators concerned. 3.
Refunds shall be fixed in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 30.
The amount of the refund may, however, remain at the same level for more than four weeks and may, where necessary, be adjusted in the intervening period by the Commission at the request of a Member State or on its own initiative.
However, for products listed in Article 1 and exported in the form of goods listed in the Annex, the refund may be fixed according to another timetable determined in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 16 of Regulation (EC) No 3448/93. 4.
The following shall be taken into account when refunds are being fixed for the products listed in Article 1 and exported without further processing: (a) the existing situation and future trends with regard to: - prices and availabilities for milk and milk products on the Community market; - prices of milk and milk products on the world market; (b) the most favourable marketing costs and transport costs from Community markets to Community ports or other places of export together with forwarding costs to the countries of destination; demand on the Community market; (c) the objectives of the common organization of the markets in milk and milk products, which are to ensure a balanced situation and natural development regarding prices and trade on these markets; (d) limits resulting from agreements concluded in accordance with Article 228 of the Treaty; (e) the importance of avoiding disturbances on the Community market; (f) the economic aspect of the proposed exports.
Account shall also be taken in particular of the need to establish a balance between the use of Community basic agricultural products for export as processed goods to third countries, and the use of products from those countries admitted for inward processing. 5.
For the products referred to in Article 1 and exported as such: (a) the prices in the Community referred to in paragraph 1 shall be determined taking account of the prices prevailing which prove to be the most favourable as regards export; (b) the prices on the world market referred to in paragraph 1 shall be determined taking account in particular of: (a) the prices on third-country markets; (b) the most favourable prices in third countries of destination for third-country imports; (c) producer prices recorded in exporting third countries, account being taken, where appropriate, of subsidies granted by those countries; (d) free-at-frontier offer prices. 6.
The refund applicable to exports of products listed in Article 1 and exported as such shall be that applicable on the day of application for the licence and, in the case of a differentiated refund, that applicable on the same day for: (a) the destination indicated on the licence, or where appropriate (b) the actual destination if it differs from the destination indicated on the licence.
Appropriate measures may be taken to prevent abuse of the flexibility provided for in this paragraph. 8.
Paragraphs 6 and 7 may be made to apply to products listed in Article 1 and exported in the form of goods listed in the Annex in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 16 of Regulation (EC) No 3448/93. 9.
Paragraphs 6 and 7 may be waived in the case of products listed in Article 1 on which refunds are paid under food-aid operations, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 30. 10.
The refund shall be paid upon proof that: - the products are of Community origin, except where paragraph 11 applies, - the products have been exported from the Community, and - in the case of a differentiated refund, the products have reached the destination indicated on the licence or another destination for which a refund was fixed, without prejudice to paragraph 7 (b).
Exceptions may be made to this rule in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 30, provided conditions are laid down which offer equivalent guarantees. 11.
As regards the products referred to in Article 1 and exported in the form of the goods listed in the Annex, paragraphs 10 and 11 shall apply only to goods falling within the following CN codes: - 1806 90 60 to 1806 90 90 (certain products containing cocoa), - 1901 (certain food preparations of flour, etc.), - 2106 90 99 (certain food preparations not elsewhere specified), having a high milk-product content. 13.
Compliance with the limits on volumes arising from agreements concluded in accordance with Article 228 of the Treaty shall be ensured on the basis of the export certificates issued for the reference periods provided for therein and applicable to the products concerned.
Detailed rules for the application of this Article, including the arrangements for redistributing unallocated or unused exportable quantities, shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 30.
However, the detailed rules on the application of paragraphs 8, 10, 11 and 12 for products referred to in Article 1 and exported in the form of goods listed in the Annex shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 16 of Regulation (EEC) No 3448/93.
To the extent necessary for the proper working of the common organization of the market in milk and milk products, the Council, acting in accordance with the voting procedure laid down in Article 43 (2) of the Treaty on a proposal from the Commission, may, in special cases, prohibit in whole or in part the use of inward processing arrangements in respect of products listed in Article 1 which are intended for the manufacture of products listed in that Article or of goods listed in the Annex. 2.
By way of derogation from paragraph 1, if the situation referred to in paragraph 1 arises with exceptional urgency and the Community market is disturbed or is liable to be disturbed by the inward processing arrangements, the Commission shall, at the request of a Member State or on its own initiative, decide upon the necessary measures; the Council and the Member States shall be notified of such measures, which shall be valid for no more than six months and shall be immediately applicable.
If the Commission receives a request from a Member State, it shall take a decision thereon within a week following receipt of the request. 3.
Measures decided on by the Commission may be referred to the Council by any Member State within a week of the day on which they were notified.
If the Council has not acted within three months, the Commission decision shall be deemed to have been repealed.
The general rules for the interpretation of the combined nomenclature and the special rules for its application shall apply to the tariff classification of products covered by this Regulation; the tariff nomenclature resulting from the application of this Regulation shall be incorporated in the Common Customs Tariff. 2.
Save as otherwise provided for in this Regulation or in provisions adopted pursuant thereto, the following shall be prohibited in trade with third countries: - the levying of any charge having equivalent effect to a customs duty, - the application of any quantitative restriction or measure having equivalent effect.
If, by reason of imports or exports, the Community market in one or more of the products listed in Article 1 is affected by, or is threatened with, serious disturbance likely to jeopardize the achievement of the objectives set out in Article 39 of the Treaty, appropriate measures may be applied in trade with third countries until such disturbance or threat of disturbance has ceased.
The Council, acting in accordance with the voting procedure laid down in Article 43 (2) of the Treaty on a proposal from the Commission, shall adopt general rules for the application of this paragraph and shall define the cases in which and the limits within which Member States may take protective measures. 2.
If the Commission receives a request from a Member State, it shall take a decision thereon within three working days following receipt of the request. 3.
Measures decided upon by the Commission may be referred to the Council by any Member State within three working days of the day on which they were notified.
This Article shall be applied having regard to the obligations arising from agreements concluded in accordance with Article 228 (2) of the Treaty.` II.
ANNEX VIII BEEF AND VEAL I.
Licences shall be issued by the Member States to any applicant, irrespective of his place of establishment in the Community and without prejudice to measures taken for the application of Articles 12 and 13.
Such licences shall be issued subject to the lodging of a security guaranteeing that the products are imported or exported during the term of validity of the licence; except in cases of force majeure, the security shall be forfeited in whole or in part if import or export is not carried out, or is carried out only partially, within that period. 2.
The term of validity of licences and other detailed rules for the application of this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 27.
Article 10 Unless this Regulation provides otherwise, the rates of duty in the Common Customs Tariff shall apply to the products listed in Article 1.
In order to prevent or counteract adverse effects on the market in the Community which may result from imports of certain products listed in Article 1, imports of one or more of such products at the rate of duty laid down in Article 10 shall be subject to payment of an additional import duty if the conditions set out in Article 5 of the Agreement on Agriculture concluded in accordance with Article 228 of the Treaty in the framework of the Uruguay Round of multilateral trade negotiations have been fulfilled unless the imports are unlikely to disturb the Community market, or where the effects would be disproportionate to the intended objective. 2.
The import prices to be taken into consideration for imposing an additional import duty shall be determined on the basis of the cif import prices of the consignment under consideration.
Cif import prices shall be checked to that end against the representative prices for the product on the world market or on the Community import market for that product. 4.
The Commission shall adopt detailed rules for the application of this Article in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 30.
Such detailed rules shall specify in particular: (a) the products to which additional import duties may be applied under the terms of Article 5 of the Agreement on Agriculture; (b) the other criteria necessary to ensure application of paragraph 1 in accordance with Article 5 of the Agreement on Agriculture.
Tariff quotas for the products listed in Article 1 resulting from agreements concluded in the framework of the Uruguay Round of multilateral trade negotiations shall be opened and administered in accordance with detailed rules adopted under the procedure laid down in Article 27.
With regard to the import quota of 50 000 tonnes of frozen meat coming under CN codes 0202 20 30, 0202 30 and 0206 29 91 and intended for processing, the Commission shall submit a report on the balance before December each year.
The method of administration adopted shall, where appropriate, give due weight to the supply requirements of the Community market and the need to safeguard the equilibrium of that market, whilst at the same time possibly drawing on methods which may have been applied in the past to quotas corresponding to those referred to in paragraph 1, without prejudice to the rights resulting from agreements concluded as part of the Uruguay Round trade negotiations. 4.
The detailed rules referred to in paragraph 1 shall provide for annual quotas, suitably phased over the year and, if necessary, shall determine the administrative method to be used and, where appropriate, shall include: (a) guarantees covering the nature, provenance and origin of the product, and, where appropriate, the maintenance of traditional trade patterns; (b) recognition of the document used for verifying the guarantees referred to in (a); and (c) the conditions under which import licences are issued and their term of validity.
To the extent necessary to enable the products listed in Article 1 to be exported on the basis of prices or those products on the world market and within the limits resulting from agreements concluded in accordance with Article 228 of the Treaty, the difference between those prices and prices in the Community may be covered by export refunds. 2.
The method to be adopted for the allocation of the quantities which may be exported with a refund shall be the method which: (a) is most suited to the nature of the product and the situation on the market in question, allowing the most efficient possible use of the resources available, account being taken of the efficiency and structure of Community exports without, however, creating discrimination between large and small operators; (b) is least cumbersome administratively for operators, account being taken of administration requirements; (c) prevents any discrimination between the operators concerned. 3.
Refunds shall be the same for the whole Community.
The amount of the refund may, however, remain at the same level for more than three months and may, where necessary, be adjusted in the intervening period by the Commission at the request of a Member State or on its own initiative. 4.
The following shall be taken into account when refunds are being fixed: (a) the existing situation and the future trend with regard to: - prices and availabilities of beef and veal sector products on the Community market; - prices for beef and veal sector products on the world market; (b) the aims of the common organization of the market in beef and veal, which are to ensure equilibrium and the natural development of prices and trade on this market; (c) the limits resulting from agreements concluded in accordance with Article 228 of the Treaty; (d) the need to avoid disturbances on the Community market; (e) the economic aspect of the proposed exports.
Account shall also be taken in particular of the need to establish a balance between the use of Community basic products in the manufacture of processed goods exported to third countries and the use of products from these countries admitted to inward processing arrangements.
In addition, in calculating the amount of the refund for products listed in sections (a), (c) and (d) of the Annex, and in section (b) under subheadings 0202 20 30, 0202 20 50, 0202 20 90, 0202 30 and 0206 29 91, the flat-rate coefficients set for each of the products concerned may be taken into account. 5.
When prices within the Community listed in paragraph 1 are being determined the following shall be taken into account: - prices ruling on the representative Community markets, - prices ruling at export.
When prices in international trade listed in paragraph 1 are being determined account shall be taken of: - prices ruling on third-country markets, - the most favourable prices in third countries of destination for third-country imports, - producer prices recorded in exporting third countries, account being taken, where appropriate, of subsidies granted by those countries, - free-at-Community-frontier offer prices. 6.
The refund applicable to exports of products listed in Article 1 shall be that applicable on the day of application for the licence and, in the case of a differentiated refund, that applicable on the same day: (a) for the destination indicated on the licence; or (b) for the actual destination if it differs from the destination indicated on the licence.
Appropriate measures may be taken to prevent abuse of the flexibility provided for in this paragraph. 8.
Paragraphs 63 and 47 may be waived in the case of products listed in Article 1 on which refunds are paid under food-aid operations, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 27. 9.
The refund shall be paid upon proof that: - the products are of Community origin, except where paragraph 10 applies, - the products have been exported from the Community, and - in the case of a differentiated refund the products have reached the destination indicated on the licence or another destination for which the refund was fixed, without prejudice to paragraph 3 (b).
Exceptions may be made to this rule in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 27, provided conditions are laid down which offer equivalent guarantees. 10.
In the absence of a derogation granted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 27, no export refund shall be granted on products which are imported from third countries and re-exported to third countries. 11.
Observance of the volume limits resulting from the agreements concluded in accordance with Article 228 of the Treaty shall be ensured on the basis of the export licences issued for the reference periods provided for therein which apply to the products concerned.
Detailed rules for the application of this Article, including provisions on the redistribution of exportable quantities which have not been allocated or utilized, shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 27.
To the extent necessary for the proper working of the common organization of the market in beef and veal, the Council, acting in accordance with the voting procedure laid down in Article 43 (2) of the Treaty on a proposal from the Commission, may, in special cases, prohibit in whole or in part the use of inward or outward processing arrangements in respect of products listed in Article 1. 2.
However, by way of derogation from paragraph 1, if the situation referred to in paragraph 1 arises with exceptional urgency and the Community market is disturbed or is liable to be disturbed by the inward or outward processing arrangements, the Commission shall, at the request of a Member State or on its own initiative, decide upon the necessary measures; the Council and the Member States shall be notified of such measures, which shall be valid for no more than six months and shall be immediately applicable.
If the Commission receives a request from a Member State, it shall take a decision thereon within a week following receipt of the request. 3.
If the Council has not acted within three months, the Commission decision shall be deemed to have been repealed.
Save as otherwise provided for in this Regulation or in provisions adopted pursuant thereto, the following shall be prohibited in trade with third countries: - the levying of any charge having equivalent effect to a customs duty, - the application of any quantitative restriction or measure having equivalent effect.
If, by reason of imports or exports, the Community market in one or more of the products listed in Article 1 is affected by, or is threatened with, serious disturbance likely to jeopardize the achievement of the objectives set out in Article 39 of the Treaty, appropriate measures may be applied in trade with third countries until such disturbance or threat of disturbance has ceased.
The Council, acting on a proposal from the Commission, in accordance with the voting procedure laid down in Article 43 of the Treaty, shall adopt general rules for the application of this paragraph and shall define the circumstances and limits within which Member States mad adopt protective measures. 2.
If the Commission receives a request from a Member State, it shall take a decision thereon within three working days following receipt of the request. 3.
Measures decided upon by the Commission may be referred to the Council by any Member State within three working days of the day on which they were notified.
The Council, acting on a Commission proposal in accordance with the voting procedure laid down in Article 43 of the Treaty, shall adopt general rules for the application of this Article.` II.
ANNEX IX SHEEPMEAT AND GOATMEAT I.
Licences shall be issued by the Member States to any applicant, irrespective of his place of establishment in the Community and without prejudice to measures taken for the application of Article 12.
The issuing of such licences may be subject to the lodging of a security guaranteeing that the products are imported or exported during the term of validity of the licence; except in cases of force majeure, the security shall be forfeited in whole or in part if import or export is not carried out, or is carried out only partially, within that period. 2.
Article 10 Unless this Regulation provides otherwise, the rates of duty in the Common Customs Tariff shall apply to the products listed in Article 1.
In order to prevent or counteract adverse effects on the market in the Community which may result from imports of certain products listed in Article 1, imports of one or more of such products at the rate of duty laid down in Article 10 shall be subject to payment of an additional import duty if the conditions set out in Article 5 of the Agreement on Agriculture concluded in accordance with Article 228 of the Treaty in the framework of the Uruguay Round of multilateral trade negotiations have been fulfilled unless the imports are unlikely to disturb the Community market, or where the effects would be disproportionate to the intended objective. 2.
The trigger volumes to be exceeded in order to have the additional import duty imposed shall be determined particularly on the basis of imports into the Community in the three years preceding the year in which the adverse effects referred to in paragraph 1 arise or are likely to arise. 3.
The import prices to be taken into consideration for imposing an additional import duty shall be determined on the basis of the cif import prices of the consignment under consideration.
Cif import prices shall be checked to that end against the representative prices for the product on the world market or on the Community import market for that product. 4.
The Commission shall adopt detailed rules for the application of this Article in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 30.
Such detailed rules shall specify in particular: (a) the products to which additional import duties may be applied under the terms of Article 5 of the Agreement on Agriculture; (b) the other criteria necessary to ensure application of paragraph 1 in accordance with Article 5 of the Agreement on Agriculture.
Tariff quotas for the products listed in Article 1 resulting from agreements concluded in the framework of the Uruguay Round of multilateral trade negotiations shall be opened and administered in accordance with detailed rules adopted under the procedure laid down in Article 30. 2.
The methods of administration adopted shall, where appropriate, give due weight to the supply requirements of the Community market and the need to safeguard the equilibrium of that market, whilst at the same time possibly drawing on methods which may have been applied in the past to quotas corresponding to those referred to in paragraph 1, without prejudice to the rights resulting from agreements concluded in the framework of the Uruguay Round negotiations. 4.
The detailed rules referred to in paragraph 1 shall provide for annual quotas, suitably phased over the year, if necessary, shall determine the administrative method to be used and, where appropriate, shall include: (a) guarantees covering the nature, provenance and origin of the product and, where appropriate, the maintenance of traditional trade patterns; (b) recognition of the document used for verifying the guarantees referred to in (a); and (c) the conditions under which import licences are issued and their term of validity.
To the extent necessary for the proper working of the common organization of the market in milk and milk products, the Council, acting in accordance with the voting procedure laid down in Article 43 (2) of the Treaty on a proposal from the Commission, may, in special cases, prohibit in whole or in part the use of inward processing arrangements in respect of products listed in Article 1. 2.
However, by way of derogation from paragraph 1, if the situation referred to in paragraph 1 arises with exceptional urgency and the Community market is disturbed or is liable to be disturbed by the inward or outward processing arrangements, the Commission shall, at the request of a Member State or on its own initiative, decide upon the necessary measures; the Council and the Member States shall be notified of such measures, which shall be valid for no more than six months and shall be immediately applicable.
If the Commission receives a request from a Member State, it shall take a decision thereon within a week following receipt of the request. 3.
If the Council has not acted within three months, the Commission decision shall be deemed to have been repealed.
Save as otherwise provided for in this Regulation or in provisions adopted pursuant thereto, the following shall be prohibited in trade with third countries: - the levying of any charge having equivalent effect to a customs duty, - the application of any quantitative restriction or measure having equivalent effect.
If, by reason of an increase in imports or exports, the Community market in one or more of the products listed in Article 1 is affected by, or is threatened with, serious disturbance likely to jeopardize the achievement of the objectives set out in Article 39 of the Treaty, appropriate measures may be applied in trade with third countries until such disturbance or threat of disturbance has ceased.
The Council, acting on a Commission proposal in accordance with the voting procedure laid down in Article 43 (2) of the Treaty, shall adopt general rules for the application of this paragraph and shall define the circumstances and limits within which Member States may adopt protective measures. 2.
If the Commission receives a request from a Member State, it shall take a decision thereon within three working days following receipt of the request. 3.
Measures decided upon by the Commission may be referred to the Council by any Member State within three working days of the day on which they were notified.
This Article shall be applied having regard to the obligations arising from agreements concluded in accordance with Article 228 (2) of the Treaty.` II.
ANNEX X PIGMEAT I.
Licences shall be issued by the Member States to any applicant, irrespective of his place of establishment in the Community and without prejudice to measures taken for the application of Articles 11 and 13.
Such licences shall be issued subject to the lodging of a security guaranteeing that the products are imported or exported during the term of validity of the licence; except in cases of force majeure, the security shall be forfeited in whole or in part if import or export is not carried out, or is carried out only partially, within that period. 2.
The term of validity of licences and other detailed rules for the application of this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 24.
Article 9 Unless this Regulation provides otherwise, the rates of duty in the Common Customs Tariff shall apply to the products listed in Article 1 (1).
In order to prevent or counteract adverse effects on the market in the Community which may result from imports of certain products listed in Article 1, imports of one or more of such products at the rate of duty laid down in Article 10 shall be subject to payment of an additional import duty if the conditions set out in Article 5 of the Agreement on Agriculture concluded in accordance with Article 228 of the Treaty in the framework of the Uruguay Round of multilateral trade negotiations have been fulfilled unless the imports are unlikely to disturb the Community market, or where the effects would be disproportionate to the intended objective. 2.
The trigger volumes to be exceeded in order to have the additional import duty imposed shall be determined particularly on the basis of imports into the Community in the three years preceding the year in which the adverse effects referred to in paragraph 1 arise or are likely to arise.
Cif import prices shall be checked to that end, against the representative prices for the product on the world market or on Community import market for that product. 3.
The import prices to be taken into consideration for imposing an additional import duty shall be determined on the basis of the cif import prices of the consignment under consideration. 4.
The Commission shall adopt detailed rules for the application of this Article in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 30.
Such detailed rules shall specify in particular: (a) the products to which additional import duties shall be applied under the terms of Article 5 of the Agreement on Agriculture; (b) the other criteria necessary to ensure application of paragraph 1 in accordance with Article 5 of that Agreement.
Tariff quotas for the products listed in Article 1, resulting from agreements concluded in the framework of the Uruguay Round of multilateral trade negotiations, shall be opened and administered in accordance with detailed rules adopted under the procedure laid down in Article 24. 2.
The method of administration adopted shall, where appropriate, give due weight to the supply requirements of the Community market and the need to safeguard the equilibrium of that market, whilst at the same time possibly drawing on methods which may have been applied in the past to quotas corresponding to those referred to in paragraph 1, without prejudice to the rights resulting from agreements concluded in the framework of the Uruguay Round negotiations. 4.
Where prices on the Community market rise significantly and where that situation is likely to continue, thereby disturbing or threatening to disturb that market, the measure provided for in paragraph 4 may be taken. 2.
A significant rise in prices within the meaning of paragraph 1 exists when, following a general price rise in all Community regions, the average price of pig carcases on the Community representative markets given in the Annex to Regulation (EEC) No 2123/89 is at a higher level than the average of those prices established for the previous period of three marketing years, from 1 July to 30 June, adjusted if necessary on the basis of cyclical trends in the prices in question, with the addition of the difference between that average and the average of basic prices in force during the period under consideration, taking into account any amendment of the basic price by comparison with the price emerging from the average for the said period. 3.
Where the conditions listed in the previous paragraphs are met, total or partial suspension of import duties may be decided on in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 24.
To the extent necessary to enable the products listed in Article 1 to be exported on the basis of quotations or prices for those products on the world market and within the limits resulting from agreements concluded in accordance with Article 228 of the Treaty, the difference between those quotations or prices and prices in the Community may be covered by export refunds. 2.
Refunds shall be the same for the whole Community.
Refunds shall be fixed at regular intervals, without recourse, however, to the tendering procedure.
The amount of the refund may, however, remain at the same level for more than three months and may, where necessary, be adjusted in the intervening period by the Commission at the request of a Member State or on its own initiative. 4.
The following shall be taken into account when refunds are being fixed: (a) the existing situation and the future trend with regard to: - prices and availabilities of pigmeat products on the Community market, - prices for pigmeat products on the world market; (b) the need to avoid disturbances likely to cause a prolonged imbalance between supply and demand on the Community market; (c) the economic aspect of the proposed exports; (d) the limits resulting from agreements concluded in accordance with Article 228 of the Treaty.
When the refund on the products listed in Article 1 is being calculated, account shall be taken of the difference between prices within the Community and prices on the world market for the quantity of feed grain required for the production in the Community of one kilogram of pigmeat, the coefficients referred to in Article 5 (2) also being taken into account in the case of products other than pig carcases. 5.
The world market prices referred to in paragraph 1 shall be established on the following basis: (a) prices obtaining on third-country markets; (b) the most favourable prices in third countries of destination for third-country imports; (c) producer prices recorded in exporting third countries, account being taken, where appropriate, of subsidies granted by those countries; and (d) free-at-Community-frontier offer prices. 6.
The refund applicable to exports of products listed in Article 1 shall be that applicable on the day of application for the licence and, in the case of a differentiated refund, that applicable on the same day: (a) for the destination indicated on the licence, or, where appropriate; (b) for the actual destination if it differs from the destination indicated on the licence.
In that case, the amount applicable may not exceed the amount applicable for the destination indicated on the licence.
Appropriate measures may be taken to prevent abuse of the flexibility provided for in this paragraph. 8.
Paragraphs 6 and 7 may be waived in the case of products listed in Article 1 on which refunds are paid under food-aid operations, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 24. 9.
The refund shall be paid upon proof: - that the products have been exported from the Community, - that the products are of Community origin, except where paragraph 10 applies, and - that in the case of a differentiated refund the products have reached the destination indicated on the licence or another destination for which the refund was fixed, without prejudice to paragraph 7 (b).
Exceptions may be made to this rule in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 24, provided conditions are laid down which offer equivalent guarantees. 10.
No export refund shall be granted on products listed in Article 1 which are imported from third countries and re-exported to third countries, unless the exporter proves: - that the product to be exported and the product previously imported are one and the same, and - that all import duties were collected on importation.
In such cases the refund on each product shall be equal to the duty collected on importation where that duty is equal to or lower than the refund applicable; the refund shall be equal to the refund applicable where the duty collected on importation is higher than that refund. 11.
Compliance with the limits on volumes arising from agreements concluded in accordance with Article 228 of the Treaty shall be ensured on the basis of the export certificates issued for the reference periods provided for therein and applicable to the products concerned.
Detailed rules for the application of this Article, including the arrangements for redistributing unallocated or unused exportable quantities, shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 24.
To the extent necessary for the proper working of the common organization of the market in pigmeat, the Council, acting in accordance with the voting procedure laid down in Article 43 (2) of the Treaty on a proposal from the Commission, may, in special cases, prohibit in whole or in part the use of inward processing arrangements in respect of products listed in Article 1 which are intended for the manufacture of products listed in that Article. 2.
In derogation from paragraph 1, if the situation referred to in paragraph 1 arises with exceptional urgency and the Community market is disturbed or is liable to be disturbed by the inward or outward processing arrangements, the Commission shall, at the request of a Member State or on its own initiative, decide upon the necessary measures; the Council and the Member States shall be notified of such measures, which shall be valid for no more than six months and shall be immediately applicable.
If the Commission receives a request from a Member State, it shall take a decision thereon within a week following receipt of the request. 3.
Measures decided on by the Commission may be referred to the Council by any Member State within a week of the day on which they were notified.
The general rules for the interpretation of the combined nomenclature and the special rules for its application shall apply to the classification of products covered by this Regulation; the tariff nomenclature resulting from the application of this Regulation shall be incorporated in the Common Customs Tariff. 2.
Save as otherwise provided for in this Regulation or pursuant to a provision thereof, the following shall be prohibited in trade with third countries: - the levying of any charge having equivalent effect to a customs duty, - the application of any quantitative restriction or measure having equivalent effect.
If, by reason of imports or exports, the Community market in one or more of the products listed in Article 1 is affected by, or is threatened with, serious disturbance likely to jeopardize the achievement of the objectives set out in Article 39 of the Treaty, appropriate measures may be applied in trade with third countries until such disturbance or threat of disturbance has ceased.
The Council, acting on a proposal from the Commission in accordance with the voting procedure laid down in Article 43 (2) of the Treaty, shall adopt the general rules for the application of this paragraph and define the cases in which and the limits within which Member States may take protective measures. 2.
If the Commission receives a request from a Member State, it shall take a decision thereon within three working days following receipt of the request. 3.
ANNEX XI POULTRYMEAT I.
Licences shall be issued by the Member States to any applicant, irrespective of his place of establishment in the Community and without prejudice to measures taken for the application of Articles 6 and 8.
Such licences shall be issued subject to the lodging of a security guaranteeing that the products are imported or exported during the term of validity of the licence; except in cases of force majeure, the security shall be forfeited in whole or in part if import or export is not carried out, or is only carried out partially, within that period. 2.
The term of validity of licences and other detailed rules for the application of this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 17.
Article 4 Unless this Regulation provides otherwise, the rates of duty in the Common Customs Tariff shall apply to the products listed in Article 1 (1).
In order to prevent or counteract adverse effects on the market in the Community which may result from imports of certain products listed in Article 1, imports of one or more of such products at the rate of duty laid down in Article 10 shall be subject to payment of an additional import duty if the conditions set out in Article 5 of the Agreement on Agriculture concluded in accordance with Article 228 of the Treaty in the framework of the Uruguay Round of multilateral trade negotiations have been fulfilled unless the imports are unlikely to disturb the Community market, or where the effects would be disproportionate to the intended objective. 2.
The import prices to be taken into consideration for imposing an additional import duty shall be determined on the basis of the cif import prices of the consignment in question.
Cif import prices shall be checked to that end against the representative prices for the product on the world market or on the Community import market for that product. 4.
The Commission shall adopt detailed rules for the application of this Article in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 17.
Such detailed rules shall specify in particular: (a) the products to which additional import duties shall be applied under the terms of Article 5 of the Agreement on Agriculture; (b) the other criteria necessary to ensure application of paragraph 1 in accordance with Article 5 of that Agreement.
Tariff quotas for the products listed in Article 1 (1) resulting from agreements concluded in the Uruguay Round of multilateral trade negotiations shall be opened and administered in accordance with detailed rules adopted under the procedure laid down in Article 17. 2.
The method of administration adopted shall, where appropriate, give due weight to the supply requirements of the Community market and the need to safeguard the equilibrium of that market, whilst at the same time possibly drawing on methods which may have been applied in the past to quotas corresponding to those referred to in paragraph 1, without prejudice to the rights resulting from agreements concluded in the framework of the Uruguay Round negotiations. 4.
Article 7 Where prices on the Community market rise significantly and where that situation is likely to continue, thereby disturbing or threatening to disturb that market, appropriate measures may be taken.
The Council, acting on a proposal from the Commission in accordance with the voting procedure laid down in Article 43 (2) of the Treaty, shall adopt the general rules for application of this Article.
To the extent necessary to enable the products listed in Article 1 (1) to be exported on the basis of prices for those products on the world market and within the limits resulting from agreements concluded in accordance with Article 228 of the Treaty, the difference between those prices and prices in the Community may be covered by export refunds. 2.
The method to be adopted for the allocation of the quantities which may be exported with a refund shall be the method which: (a) is most suited to the nature of the product and the situation on the market in question, allowing the most efficient possible use of the resources available, account being taken of the efficiency and structure of Community exports without, however, creating discrimination between large and small operators; (b) is least cumbersome administratively for operators, account being taken of administration requirements; (c) prevents any discrimination between the operators concerned. 3.
Refunds shall be the same for the whole Community.
Refunds shall be fixed at regular intervals, without recourse, however, to the tendering procedure.
The amount of the refund may, however, remain at the same level for more than three months and may, where necessary, be adjusted in the intervening period by the Commission at the request of a Member State or on its own initiative. 4.
The following shall be taken into account when refunds are being fixed: (a) the existing situation and the future trend with regard to: - prices and availabilities of poultrymeat products on the Community market, - prices for poultrymeat products on the world market; (b) the importance of avoiding disturbances likely to bring about a prolonged imbalance between supply and demand on the Community market; (c) the economic aspect of the proposed exports; (d) limits arising from agreements concluded in accordance with Article 228 of the Treaty.
In addition, for the purpose of calculating the refund for the products referred to in Article 1 (1), account shall be taken of the difference between Community and world market prices for the amount of feed-grains required to produce one kilogram of slaughtered poultry in the Community, allowing, in the case of products other than slaughtered poultry, for the differences in the weight of the different products and/or the average of their commercial values. 5.
The world market prices referred to in paragraph 1 shall be established on the following basis: (a) the prices on third-country markets; (b) the most favourable prices in third countries of destination for third-country imports; (c) producer prices recorded in exporting third countries, account being taken, where appropriate, of subsidies granted by those countries; (d) free-at-Community-frontier offer prices. 6.
The refund applicable to exports of products listed in Article 1 (1) shall be that applicable on the day of application for the licence and, in the case of a differentiated refund, that applicable on the same day: (a) for the destination indicated on the licence or, where appropriate; (b) for the actual destination if it differs from the destination indicated on the licence.
In that case, the amount applicable may not exceed the amount applicable for the destination indicated on the licence.
Appropriate measures may be taken to prevent abuse of the flexibility provided for in this paragraph. 8.
Paragraphs 6 and 7 may be waived in the case of products listed in Article 1 (1) on which refunds are paid under food-aid operations, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 17. 9.
The refund shall be paid upon proof: - that the products have been exported from the Community, - that the products are of Community origin, except where paragraph 10 applies, and - that, in the case of a differentiated refund, the products have reached the destination indicated on the licence or another destination for which a refund was fixed, without prejudice to paragraph 7 (b).
Exceptions may be made to this rule in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 17, provided conditions are laid down which offer equivalent guarantees. 10.
No export refund shall be granted on products listed in Article 1 (1) which are imported from third countries and re-exported to third countries, unless the exporter proves: - that the product to be exported and the product previously imported are one and the same, and - that all import duties were collected on importation.
In such cases the refund on each product shall be equal to the duty collected on importation where that duty is equal to or lower than the refund applicable; the refund shall be equal to the refund applicable where the duty collected on importation is higher than that refund. 11.
Compliance with the limits on volumes arising from agreements concluded in accordance with Article 228 of the Treaty shall be ensured on the basis of the export certificates issued for the reference periods provided for therein and applicable to the products concerned.
Detailed rules for the application of this Article, including the arrangements for redistributing unallocated and unused quantities, shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 17.
To the extent necessary for the proper working of the common organization of the market in poultrymeat, the Council, acting in accordance with the voting procedure laid down in Article 43 (2) of the Treaty on a proposal from the Commission, may, in special cases, prohibit in whole or in part the use of inward or outward processing arrangements in respect of products listed in Article 1 (1) which are intended for the manufacture of products listed in Article 1 (1). 2.
In derogation from paragraph 1, if the situation referred to in paragraph 1 arises with exceptional urgency and the Community market is disturbed or is liable to be disturbed by the inward or outward processing arrangements, the Commission shall, at the request of a Member State or on its own initiative, decide upon the necessary measures; the Council and the Member States shall be notified of such measures, which shall be valid for no more than six months and shall be immediately applicable.
If the Commission receives a request from a Member State, it shall take a decision thereon within a week following receipt of the request. 3.
Measures decided on by the Commission may be referred to the Council by any Member State within a week of the day on which they were notified.
If the Council has not acted within three months, the Commission decision shall be deemed to have been repealed.
The general rules for the interpretation of the combined nomenclature and the special rules for its application shall apply to the classification of products covered by this Regulation; the tariff nomenclature resulting from the application of this Regulation shall be incorporated in the Common Customs Tariff. 2.
Save as otherwise provided for in this Regulation or pursuant to a provision thereof, the following shall be prohibited in trade with third countries: - the levying of any charge having equivalent effect to a customs duty, - the application of any quantitative restriction or measure having equivalent effect.
If, by reason of imports or exports, the Community market in one or more of the products listed in Article 1 (1) is affected by, or is threatened with, serious disturbance likely to jeopardize the achievement of the objectives set out in Article 39 of the Treaty, appropriate measures may be applied in trade with third countries until such disturbance or threat of disturbance has ceased.
The Council, acting on a Commission proposal in accordance with the voting procedure laid down in Article 43 (2) of the Treaty, shall adopt the general rules for the application of this paragraph and define the cases in which and the limits within which Member States may take protective measures. 2.
If the Commission receives a request from a Member State, it shall take a decision thereon within three working days following receipt of the request. 3.
This Article shall be applied having regard to the obligations arising from agreements concluded in accordance with Article 228 (2) of the Treaty.` 2.
ANNEX XII EGGS, OVALBUMIN AND LACTALBUMIN A.
Licences shall be issued by the Member States to any applicant, irrespective of his place of establishment in the Community and without prejudice to measures taken for the application of Articles 6 and 8.
Such licences shall be issued subject to the lodging of a security guaranteeing that the products are imported or exported during the term of validity of the licence; except in cases of force majeure, the security shall be forfeited in whole or in part if import or export is not carried out, or is only carried out partially, within that period. 2.
The term of validity of licences and other detailed rules for the application of this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 17.
Article 4 Unless this Regulation provides otherwise, the rates of duty in the Common Customs Tariff shall apply to the products listed in Article 1 (1).
In order to prevent or counteract adverse effects on the market in the Community which may result from imports of certain products listed in Article 1, imports of one or more of such products at the rate of duty laid down in Article 10 shall be subject to payment of an additional import duty if the conditions set out in Article 5 of the Agreement of Agriculture concluded in accordance with Article 228 of the Treaty in the framework of the Uruguay Round of multilateral trade negotiations have been fulfilled unless the imports are unlikely to disturb the Community market, or where the effects would be disproportionate to the intended objective. 2.
The import prices to be taken into consideration for imposing an additional import duty shall be determined on the basis of the cif import prices of the consignment under consideration.
Cif import prices shall be checked to that end against the representative prices for the product on the world market or on the Community import market for that product. 4.
The Commission shall adopt detailed rules for the application of this Article in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 17.
Such detailed rules shall specify in particular: (a) the products to which additional import duties shall be applied under the terms of Article 5 of the Agreement on Agriculture; (b) the other criteria necessary to ensure application of paragraph 1 in accordance with Article 5 of the said Agreement.
Tariff quotas for the products listed in Article 1 (1) resulting from agreements concluded in the Uruguay Round of multilateral trade negotiations shall be opened and administered in accordance with detailed rules adopted under the procedure laid down in Article 17. 2.
The method of administration adopted shall, where appropriate, give due weight to the supply requirements of the Community market and the need to safeguard the equilibrium of that market, whilst at the same time possibly drawing on methods which may have been applied in the past to quotas corresponding to those referred to in paragraph 1 without prejudice to the rights resulting from agreements concluded in the framework of the Uruguay Round negotiations. 4.
Article 7 Where prices on the Community market rise significantly and where that situation is likely to continue, thereby disturbing or threatening to disturb that market, appropriate measures may be taken.
The Council, acting on a proposal from the Commission in accordance with the voting procedure laid down in Article 43 (2) of the Treaty, shall adopt the general rules for application of this Article.
To the extent necessary to enable the products listed in Article 1 (1) to be exported on the basis of prices for those products on the world market and within the limits resulting from agreements concluded in accordance with Article 228 of the Treaty, the difference between those prices and prices in the Community may be covered by export refunds. 2.
Refunds shall be the same for the whole Community.
Refunds shall be fixed at regular intervals without recourse, however, to the tendering procedure.
The list of products on which an export refund is granted and the amount of such refund shall be fixed at least once every three months.
The amount of the refund may, however, remain at the same level for more than three months and may, where necessary, be adjusted in the intervening period by the Commission at the request of a Member State or on its own initiative. 4.
The following shall be taken into account when refunds are being fixed: (a) the existing situation and the future trend with regard to: - prices and availabilities of egg-sector products on the Community market, - prices of egg-sector products on the world market; (b) the need to avoid disturbances likely to lead to a prolonged imbalance between supply and demand on the Community market; (c) the economic aspect of the proposed exports; (d) the limits resulting from agreements concluded in accordance with Article 228 of the Treaty.
When prices in the Community referred to in paragraph 1 are being determined account shall be taken of: (a) prices obtaining at the various stages of marketing in the Community; (b) prices obtaining for exports.
When prices on the world market referred to in paragraph 1 are being determined, account shall be taken of: (a) prices obtaining on third-country markets; (b) the most favourable prices in third countries of destination for third-country imports; (c) producer prices recorded in exporting third countries, account being taken where appropriate, of subsidies granted by those countries; (d) free-at-Community-frontier offer prices. 6.
The refund applicable to exports of products listed in Article 1 (1) exported without further processing shall be that applicable on the day of application for the licence and, in the case of a differentiated refund, that applicable on the same day for: (a) the destination indicated on the licence, or where appropriate; (b) the actual destination if it differs from the destination indicated on the licence.
Appropriate measures may be taken to prevent abuse of the flexibility provided for in this paragraph. 8.
Paragraphs 6 and 7 may be made to apply to products listed in Article 1 (1) and exported in the form of goods listed in Annex I in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 16 of Regulation (EC) No 3448/93. 9.
Paragraphs 6 and 7 may be waived in the case of products listed in Article 1 (1) on which refunds are paid under food-aid operations, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 17. 10.
The refund shall be paid upon proof that: - the products have been exported from the Community, - the products are of Community origin, except where paragraph 11 applies, and - in the case of a differentiated refund, the products have reached the destination for which the refund was fixed, without prejudice to paragraph 7 (b).
Exceptions may be made to this rule in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 17, provided conditions are laid down which offer equivalent guarantees. 11.
Compliance with the limits on volumes arising from agreements concluded in accordance with Article 228 of the Treaty shall be ensured on the basis of the export certificates issued for the reference periods provided for therein and applicable to the products concerned.
With regard to compliance with the obligations arising under the Agreement on Agriculture, the ending of a reference period shall not affect the validity of export licences. 13.
Detailed rules for the application of this Article, including the arrangements for redistributing unallocated and unused quantities, shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 17.
Annex I shall be amended in accordance with the same procedure.
However, detailed rules for the application of paragraph 8 to the products referred to in Article 1 (1) exported in the form of goods listed in Annex I shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 16 of Regulation (EC) No 3448/93.
To the extent necessary for the proper working of the common organization of the market in eggs, the Council, acting on a proposal from the Commission in accordance with the voting procedure laid down in Article 43 (2) of the Treaty, may in special cases prohibit in whole or in part the use of inward processing traffic in respect of: - products listed in Article 1 (1) which are intended for the manufacture of products listed in Article 1 (1) (b), and - in special cases, products listed in Article 1 (1) which are intended for the manufacture of goods listed in Annex I. 2.
In derogation from paragraph 1, if the situation referred to in paragraph 1 arises with exceptional urgency and the Community market is disturbed or is liable to be disturbed by the inward processing arrangements, the Commission shall, at the request of a Member State or on its own initiative, decide upon the necessary measures; the Council and the Member States shall be notified of such measures, which shall be valid for no more than six months and shall be immediately applicable.
The general rules for the interpretation of the combined nomenclature and the special rules for its application shall apply to the classification of products covered by this Regulation; the tariff nomenclature resulting from the application of this Regulation shall be incorporated in the Common Customs Tariff. 2.
Save as otherwise provided for in this Regulation or pursuant to a provision thereof, the following shall be prohibited in trade with third countries: - the levying of any charge having equivalent effect to a customs duty, - the application of any quantitative restriction or measure having equivalent effect.
If, by reason of imports or exports, the Community market in one or more of the products listed in Article 1 (1) is affected by, or is threatened with, serious disturbance likely to jeopardize the achievement of the objectives set out in Article 39 of the Treaty, appropriate measures may be applied in trade with third countries until such disturbance or threat of disturbance has ceased.
The Council, acting on a proposal from the Commission in accordance with the voting procedure laid down in Article 43 (2) of the Treaty, shall adopt the general rules for the application of this paragraph and shall define in what cases and within what limits Member States may take protective measures. 2.
If the Commission receives a request from a Member State, it shall take a decision thereon within three working days following receipt of the request. 3.
Licences shall be issued by the Member States to any applicant, irrespective of his place of establishment in the Community and without prejudice to measures taken for the application of Article 4.
Such licences shall be issued subject to the lodging of a security guaranteeing that the products are imported during the term of validity of the licence; except in cases of force majeure, the security shall be forfeited on whole or in part if import is not carried out, or is only carried out partially, within that period. 2.
In order to prevent or counteract adverse effects on the market in the Community which may result from imports of certain products listed in Article 1, imports of one or more of such products at the rate of duty laid down in Article 10 shall be subject to payment of an additional import duty if the conditions set out in Article 5 of the Agreement on Agriculture concluded in accordance with Article 228 of the Treaty in the framework of the Uruguay Round of multilateral trade negotiations have been fulfilled unless the imports are unlikely to disturb the Community market, or where the effects would be disproportionate to the intended objective. 2.
The trigger volumes to be exceeded in order to have the additional import duty imposed shall be determined particularly on the basis of imports into the Community in the three years preceding the year in which the adverse effects referred to in paragraph 1 arise or are likely to arise. 3.
The Commission shall adopt detailed rules for the application of this Article in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 17 of Regulation (EEC) No 2771/75.
Tariff quotas for the products listed in Article 1 resulting from agreements concluded in the framework of the Uruguay Round of multilateral trade negotiations shall be opened and administered in accordance with detailed rules adopted under the procedure laid down in Article 17 of Regulation (EEC) No 2771/75. 2.
To the extent necessary for the proper working of the common organization of the market in eggs and this Regulation, the Council, acting in accordance with the voting procedure laid down in Article 43 (2) of the Treaty on a proposal from the Commission, may, in special cases, prohibit in whole or in part the use of inward processing arrangements in respect of products listed in Article 1 which are intended for the manufacture of products listed in that Article. 2.
In derogation from paragraph 1, if the situation referred to in paragraph 1 arises with exceptional urgency and the Community market is disturbed or is liable to be disturbed by the inward processing arrangements, the Commission shall, at the request of a Member State or on its own initiative, decide upon the necessary measures; the Council and the Member States shall be notified of such measures, which shall be valid for no more than six months and shall be immediately applicable.
If the Commission receives a request from a Member State, it shall take a decision thereon within a week following receipt of the request. 3.
Measures decided on by the Commission may be referred to the Council by any Member State within a week of the day on which they were notified.
Council Regulation (EEC) No 1035/72 of 18 May 1972 (OJ No L 118, 20. 5. 1972, p. 1), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 3669/93 (OJ No L 338, 31. 12. 1993, p. 26) Title IV shall be replaced by the following: 'TITLE IV Trade with third countries Article 22 1.
Licences shall be issued by the Member States to any applicant, irrespective of his place of establishment in the Community and without prejudice to measures taken for the application of Articles 25 and 26.
The term of validity of licences and other detailed rules for the application of this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 33.
Save as otherwise provided for in this Regulation, the rates of duty in the Common Customs Tariff shall apply to the products listed in Article 1 (2). 2.
In order to prevent or counteract adverse effects on the market in the Community which may result from imports of certain products listed in Article 1, imports of one or more of such products at the rate of duty laid down in Article 10 shall be subject to payment of an additional import duty if the conditions set out in Article 5 of the Agreement on Agriculture concluded in accordance with Article 228 of the Treaty in the framework of the Uruguay Round of multilateral trade negotiations have been fulfilled unless the imports are unlikely to disturb the Community market, or where the effects would be disproportionate to the intended objective. 2.
The trigger volumes to be exceeded in order to have the additional import duty imposed shall be determined particularly on the basis of imports into the Community in the three years preceding the year in which the adverse effects referred to in paragraph 1 arise or are likely to arise. 3.
The import prices to be taken into consideration for imposing an additional import duty shall be determined on the basis of the cif import prices of the consignment under consideration.
The cif import prices shall be checked to that end on the basis of the representative prices for the product in question on the world market or on the Community import market for the product. 4.
The Commission shall adopt detailed rules for the application of this Article in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 33.
Tariff quotas for the products listed in Article 1 (2) resulting from agreements concluded in the framework of the Uruguay Round of multilateral trade negotiations shall be opened and administered in accordance with detailed rules adopted under the procedure laid down in Article 33. 2.
The detailed rules referred to in paragraph 1 shall provide for annual quotas, suitably phased over the year, if necessary, shall determine the administrative method to be used and, where appropriate, shall include: (a) guarantees covering the nature, provenance and origin of the product; (b) recognition of the document used for verifying the guarantees referred to in (a); and (c) the conditions under which import licences are issued and their term of validity.
To the extent necessary to enable economically significant quantities of the products listed in Article 1 (2) to be exported on the basis of the prices of these products in international trade and within the limits resulting from agreements concluded in accordance with Article 228 of the Treaty, the difference between those prices and prices in the Community may be covered by export refunds. 2.
Refunds shall be fixed in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 33.
Refunds shall be fixed at regular intervals.
The following shall be taken into account when refunds are being fixed: (a) the existing situation and future trends with regard to: - prices and availabilities of fruit and vegetables on the Community market, - prices for fruit and vegetables in international trade; (b) marketing costs and the minimum transport charges from Community markets to ports and other points of export in the Community, as well as costs incurred in placing goods on the market of the country of destination; (c) the economic aspect of the proposed exports; (d) limits resulting from agreements concluded in accordance with Article 228 of the Treaty 5.
When the world market prices referred to in paragraph 1 are being determined particular account shall be taken of: (a) prices recorded on third-country markets; (b) the most favourable prices in third countries of destination for third-country imports; (c) producer prices recorded in exporting third countries; (d) free-at-Community-frontier offer prices. 6.
The refund applicable to exports of products listed in Article 1 (2) shall be that applicable on the day of application for the licence and, in the case of a differentiated refund, that applicable on the same day: (a) for the destination indicated on the licence; or (b) for the actual destination if it differs from the destination indicated on the licence.
Appropriate measures may be taken to prevent abuse of the flexibility provided for in this paragraph. 8.
Paragraphs 6 and 7 may be waived in the case of products listed in Article 1 (2) on which refunds are paid under food-aid operations, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 33. 9.
The refund shall be paid upon proof: - that the products have been exported from the Community, - that the products are of Community origin, and - that, in the case of a differentiated refund, the products have reached the destination indicated on the licence or another destination for which a refund was fixed, without prejudice to paragraph 7 (b).
Exceptions may be made to this rule in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 33, provided conditions are laid down which offer equivalent guarantees. 10.
Compliance with the limits on volumes arising from agreements concluded in accordance with Article 228 of the Treaty shall be ensured on the basis of the export certificates issued for the reference periods provided for therein and applicable to the products concerned.
Detailed rules for the application of this Article, including provisions for the redistribution of exportable quantities not allocated or not used, shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 24.
Save as otherwise provided for in this Regulation or pursuant to a provision thereof, the following shall be prohibited when importing the products listed in Article 1 (2) from third countries: - the levying of any charge having equivalent effect to a customs duty, - the application of any quantitative restriction or measure having equivalent effect. 2.
The Council, acting on a proposal from the Commission in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 43 (2) of the Treaty, shall adopt the general rules for application of this paragraph and shall define in what cases and within what limits Member States may take protective measures. 2.
If the Commission receives a request from a Member State, it shall take a decision thereon within three working days following receipt of the request. 3.
ANNEX XIV PROCESSED FRUIT AND VEGETABLES I.
Council Regulation (EEC) No 426/86 of 24 February 1986 (OJ No L 49, 27. 2. 1986, p. 1), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 1490/94 (OJ No L 161, 29. 6. 1994, p. 13) 1.
Licences shall be issued by the Member States to any applicant, irrespective of his place of establishment in the Community and without prejudice to measures taken for the application of Articles 12, 13, 14 and 14a.
The issue of such licences may be subject to the lodging of a security guaranteeing that the products are imported or exported during the term of validity of the licence; except in cases of force majeure, the security shall be forfeited in whole or in part if import or export is not carried out, or is only carried out partially, within that period. 2.
The term of validity of licences and other detailed rules for the application of this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 22.
Unless this Regulation otherwise, the rats of duty in the Common Customs Tariff shall apply to the products listed in Article 1 (1). 2.
Detailed rules for the application of this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 22.
A minimum import price for the 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998 and 1999 marketing years shall be fixed for the products listed in Part B of Annex I.
The minimum import price shall be determined having regard in particular to: - the free-at-frontier prices on import into the Community, - the prices obtaining on world markets, - the situation on the internal Community market, - the trend of trade with third countries.
Where the minimum import price is not observed, a countervailing charge in addition to customs duty shall be imposed, based on the prices of the main supplier third countries. 2.
The countervailing charge to be levied, if any, shall be that which is applicable on the same day. 5.
The difference between the minimum import price and each step of the scale shall be: - 1 % of the minimum price for the first step, - 3, 6 and 9 %, respectively, of the minimum price for the second, third and fourth steps.
Where the import price for sour cherries and processed cherries is less than the minimum price for those products, a countervailing charge equal to the difference between those prices shall be levied. 8.
The minimum import price, the amount of the countervailing charge and the other rules for the implementation of this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 22.
In order to prevent or counteract adverse effects on the market in the Community which may result from imports of certain products listed in Article 1, imports of one or more of such products at the rate of duty laid down in Article 10 shall be subject to payment of an additional import duty if the conditions set out in Article 5 of the Agreement on Agriculture concluded in accordance with Article 228 of the Treaty in the framework of the Uruguay Round of multilateral trade negotiations have been fulfilled unless the imports are unlikely to disturb the Community market, or where the effects would be disproportionate to the intended objective. 2.
The trigger volumes to be exceeded in order to have the additional import duty imposed shall be determined particularly on the basis of imports into the Community in the three years preceding the year in which the adverse effects referred to in paragraph 1 arise or are likely to arise. 3.
The Commission shall adopt detailed rules for the application of this Article in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 22.
Such detailed rules shall specify in particular: (a) the products to which additional import duties may be applied under the terms of Article 5 of the Agreement on Agriculture; (b) the other criteria necessary to ensure application of paragraph 1 in accordance with Article 5 of the Agreement on Agriculture.
Tariff quotas for the products listed in Article 1 (1) resulting from agreements concluded in the framework of the Uruguay Round of multilateral trade negotiations shall be opened and administered in accordance with detailed rules adopted under the procedure laid down in Article 22. 2.
The method of administration adopted shall, where appropriate, give due weight to the supply requirements of the Community market and the need to safeguard the equilibrium of that market, whilst at the same time possibly drawing on methods which may have been applied in the past to quotas corresponding to those referred to in paragraph 1, without prejudice to the rights resulting from agreements concluded in the framework of the Uruguay Round negotiations. 4.
To the extent necessary to enable export of: (a) economically significant quantities of the products without added sugar referred to in Article 1 (1); (b) white and raw sugar falling with CN code 1701, - glucose and glucose syrup falling within CN codes 1702 30 51, 1702 30 59, 1702 30 91, 1702 30 99 and 1702 40 90, - isoglucose falling within CN codes 1702 30 10, 1702 40 10, 1702 60 10 and 1702 90 30, and - beet and cane syrups falling within CN code 1702 90 90, used in the products listed in Article 1 (1) (b), on the basis of prices for those products in international trade and within the limits resulting from agreements concluded in accordance with Article 228 of the Treaty, the difference between those prices and prices in the Community may be covered by export refunds. 2.
Refunds shall be the same for the whole Community.
Refunds shall be fixed at regular intervals.
Refunds shall only be granted on application and on presentation of the relevant export licence. 5.
The refund applicable to exports shall be that applicable on the day of application for the licence and, in the case of a differentiated refund, that applicable on the same day: (a) for the destination indicated on the licence; or (b) for the actual destination if it differs from the destination indicated on the licence.
Appropriate measures may be taken to prevent abuse of the flexibility provided for in this paragraph. 6.
Paragraphs 4 and 5 may be waived in the case of products on which refunds are paid under food-aid operations, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 22. 7.
Compliance with the limits on volumes arising from agreements concluded in accordance with Article 228 of the Treaty shall be ensured on the basis of the export certificates issued for the reference periods provided for therein and applicable to the products concerned.
Detailed rules for the application of this Article, including provisions on redistribution of unallocated or unused exportable quantities, shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 22.
This Article shall apply to the refunds referred to in Article 13 (1) (a). 2.
The following shall be taken into account when refunds are being fixed: (a) the existing situation and future trends with regard to: - prices and availability on the Community market of products processed from fruit and vegetables, - prices ruling in international trade; (b) minimum marketing and transport costs from the Community markets to ports or other points of export in the Community, as well as costs of shipment to the countries of destination; (c) the economic aspect of the proposed exports; (d) limits resulting from the agreements concluded in accordance with Article 228 of the Treaty. 3.
When prices on the Community market are being determined for the products referred to in Article 13 (1) (a), account shall be taken of the ruling prices which are most favourable from the point of view of exportation.
The following shall be taken into account when prices in international trade are being determined: (a) prices ruling on third-country markets; (b) the most favourable prices in third countries of destination for imports from third countries; (c) producer prices recorded in exporting third countries; (d) offer prices at the Community frontier. 4.
The refund shall be paid upon proof that: - the products have been exported from the Community, - the products are of Community origin, and - in the case of a differentiated refund the products have reached the destination indicated on the licence or another destination for which the refund was fixed, without prejudice to Article 13 (5) (b).
However, exceptions may be made to this rule in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 22, provided conditions are laid down which offer equivalent guarantees. 5.
Detailed rules for the application of this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 22.
This Article shall apply to the refunds referred to in Article 13 (1) (b). 2.
The amount of the refund shall equal: - for raw sugar, white sugar and beet and cane syrup, the amount of the export refund for such products in the unprocessed state, fixed in accordance with Article 17 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1785/81 of 30 June 1981 on the common organization of the markets in the sugar sector and its implementing provisions, - for isoglucose, the amount of the export refund for that product in its unprocessed state, fixed in accordance with Article 17 of Regulation (EEC) No 1785/81 and its implementing provisions, - for glucose and glucose syrup, the amount of the export refund for such products in their unprocessed state, fixed for each of those products in accordance with Article 13 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1766/92 of 30 June 1992 on the common organization of the markets in cereals, and its implementing provisions. 3.
The refund shall be granted on exports of products: (a) which are of Community origin; (b) which have been imported from third countries and on which the import duties referred to in Article 10 have been paid, provided the exporter proves: - that the product to be exported and the product previously imported are one and the same, and - that the import duties where collected on importation.
The refund shall be paid upon proof that: - the products fulfil either of the two conditions set out in the preceding paragraph, - the products have been exported from the Community, and - in the case of a differentiated refund the products have reached the destination indicated on the licence or another destination for which the refund was fixed, without prejudice to Article 13 (5) (b).
However, exceptions may be made to this rule in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 22, provided conditions are laid down which offer equivalent guarantees. 7.
Detailed rules for the application of this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 22.
To the extent necessary for the proper working of the common organization of the markets in cereals, sugar and fruit and vegetables, the Council, acting in accordance with the voting procedure laid down in Article 43 (2) of the Treaty on a proposal from the Commission, may, in particular cases, prohibit in whole or in part the use of inward processing arrangements in respect of: - the products referred to in Article 13 (1) (b), and - fruit and vegetables, intended for the manufacture of the products listed in Article 1 (1). 2.
However, by way of derogation from paragraph 1, if the situation referred to in paragraph 1 arises with exceptional urgency and the Community market is disturbed or is liable to be disturbed by the inward processing arrangements, the Commission shall, at the request of a Member State or on its own initiative decide upon the necessary measures; the Council and the Member States shall be notified of such measures, which shall be valid for no more than six months and shall be immediately applicable.
If the Commission receives a request from a Member State, it shall take a decision thereon within a week following receipt of the request. 3.
The amount of the export charge shall be fixed taking into account: - the nature of the product processed from fruit of vegetables which contains added sugar, - the added sugar content of the product in question, - the prices of white sugar in the Community and on the world market, - the export levy applicable to white sugar, - the economic implications of applying the said charge. 3.
However, at the request of the exporter, if the added sugar content per 100 kilograms net weight of product, established in accordance with paragraph 4, is two kilograms or more below the content expressed by the figure for the product in question appearing in column 1 of Annex III, the content established in accordance with paragraph 4 shall be used. 4.
The added sugar content of the products listed in Annex III shall be considered to mean the reading obtained by using a refractometer, multiplied by 0,93 in the case of products falling within CN code 2008, excluding CN codes 2008 11 10, 2008 91 00, 2008 99 85 and 2008 99 91, and by 0,95 in the case of other products listed in Annex III and reduced by the figure for the product in question appearing in column 2 of Annex III. 5.
Detailed rules for the application of this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 22.
The general rules for the interpretation of the combined nomenclature and the special rules for its application shall apply to the tariff classification of products covered by this Regulation; the tariff nomenclature resulting from the application of this Regulation shall be incorporated in the Common Customs Tariff. 2.
Save as otherwise provided for in this Regulation or in provisions adopted pursuant thereto, the following shall be prohibited in trade with third countries: - the levying of any charge having equivalent effect to a customs duty, - the application of any quantitative restriction or measure having equivalent effect.
If, by reason of imports or exports, the Community market in one or more of the products listed in Article 1 (1) is affected by, or is threatened with, serious disturbance likely to jeopardize the achievement of the objectives set out in Article 39 of the Treaty, appropriate measures may be applied in trade with third countries until such disturbance or threat of disturbance has ceased.
The Council, acting on a proposal from the Commission in accordance with the voting procedure laid down in Article 43 (2) of the Treaty, shall adopt the general rules for application of this paragraph and shall determine the cases in which and limits within which Member States may take protective measures. 2.
If the Commission receives a request from a Member State, it shall take a decision thereon within three working days following receipt of the request. 3.
This Article shall be applied having regard to the obligations arising from agreements concluded in accordance with Article 228 (2) of the Treaty.` 2.
Council Regulation (EEC) No 518/77 of 14 March 1977 (OJ No L 73, 21. 3. 1977, p. 22) Council Regulation (EEC) No 519/77 of 14 March 1977 (OJ No L 73, 21. 3. 1977, p. 24) Council Regulation (EEC) No 520/77 of 14 March 1977 (OJ No L 73, 21. 3. 1977, p. 26) Council Regulation (EEC) No 521/77 of 14 March 1977 (OJ No L 73, 21. 3. 1977, p. 28) Council Regulation (EEC) No 1796/81 of 30 June 1981 (OJ No L 183, 4. 7. 1981) as last amended by Regulation (EEC) No 1122/92 (OJ No L 117, 1. 5. 1992, p. 98) Council Regulation (EEC) No 2089/85 of 23 July 1985 (OJ No L 197, 27. 7. 1985, p. 10) Council Regulation (EEC) No 3225/88 of 17 October 1988 (OJ No L 288, 21. 10. 1988, p. 11) Council Regulation (EEC) No 1201/88 of 28 April 1988 (OJ No L 115, 3. 5. 1988, p. 9), as last amended by Regulation (EEC) No 2781/90 (OJ No L 265, 28. 9. 1990, p. 3) The above Regulations are repealed.
ANNEX XV BANANAS Council Regulation (EEC) No 404/93 of 13 February 1993 (OJ No L 47, 25. 2. 1993, p. 1), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 3518/93 (OJ No L 320, 22. 12. 1993, p. 15) 1.
Unless this Regulation provides otherwise, the rates of duty in the Common Customs Tariff shall apply to the products listed in Article 1 (2). 2.
In order to prevent or counteract adverse effects on the market in the Community which may result from imports of certain products listed in Article 1, imports of one or more of such products at the rate of duty laid down in Article 10 shall be subject to payment of an additional import duty if the conditions set out in Article 5 of the Agreement on Agriculture concluded in accordance with Article 228 of the Treaty in the framework of the Uruguay Round of multilateral trade negotiations have been fulfilled unless the imports are unlikely to disturb the Community market, or where the effects would be disproportionate to the intended objective. 3.
The cif import prices shall be verified for this purpose on the basis of representative prices for the product in question on the world market or on the Community import market for the product 5.
The Commission shall adopt detailed rules for the application of this Article in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 27.
Save where derogations are adopted under the procedure laid down in Article 27, such licences shall be issued subject to the lodging of a security guaranteeing that the products are imported in compliance with this Regulation, during the term of validity of the licence; save in cases of force majeure, the security shall be forfeited in whole or in part if import is not carried out, or is only carried out partially, within that period.` 4.
Within the framework of the tariff quota, imports of third-country bananas shall be subject to a levy of ECU 75 per tonne and imports of non-traditional ACP bananas shall be subject to a zero duty.
Any such adjustment shall be made before 30 November preceding the marketing year concerned. 2.
The Council, acting on a proposal from the Commission in accordance with the voting procedure laid down in Article 43 (2) of the Treaty, shall adopt general rules for the application of this paragraph and shall determine the cases in and limits within which Member States may take interim protective measures. 2.
If the Commission receives a request from a Member State, it shall take a decision thereon within three working days following receipt of the request. 3.
Detailed rules for the application of this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 27. 5.
Licences shall be issued by Member States to any applicant, irrespective of his place of establishment in the Community and without prejudice to measures taken for the application of Articles 55 and 56.
Such licences shall be issued subject to the lodging of a security guaranteeing that the products are imported or exported during the term of validity of the licence; save in cases of force majeure, the security shall be forfeited in whole or in part if import or export is not carried out, or is only carried out partially, within that period. 3.
Unless this Regulation provides otherwise, the rates of duty in the Common Customs Tariff shall apply to the products listed in Article 1. 2.
For musts falling within CN code 2204 30 for which application of the duties in the Common Customs Tariff depends on the import price of the product imported, the accuracy of that price shall be checked by means of a flat-rate import value calculated by the Commission depending on the origin and product on the basis of the weighted average prices for the products in question on Member States' representative import market or on other markets where applicable.
The detailed rules for the application of this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 83.
In order to prevent or counteract adverse effects on the market in the Community which may result from imports of certain products listed in Article 1, imports of one or more of such products at the rate of duty laid down in Article 10 shall be subject to payment of an additional import duty if the conditions set out in Article 5 of the Agreement on Agriculture concluded in accordance with Article 228 of the Treaty in the framework of the Uruguay Round of multilateral trade negotiations have been fulfilled unless the imports are unlikely to disturb the Community market, or where the effects would be disproportionate to the intended objective. 2.
The cif import prices shall be verified for this purpose on the basis of representative prices for the product in question on the world market or on the Community import market for the product. 4.
The Commission shall adopt detailed rules for the application of this Article in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Article 83.
Such detailed rules shall specify in particular: (a) the products to which additional import duties shall be applied, in accordance with Article 5 of the Agreement on Agriculture; (b) the other criteria necessary for application of paragraph 1 in accordance with Article 5 of the said Agreement.
To the extent necessary to enable the export of: (a) products listed in Article 1 (2) (a), (b) and (c); (b) sugars falling with CN code 1701, glucose and glucose syrup falling within CN codes 1702 30 91, 1702 30 99, 1702 40 90 and 1702 90 50, including in the form of products falling within CN codes 1702 30 51 and 1702 30 59, incorporated into products falling within CN codes 2009 60 11, 2009 60 71, 2009 60 79 and 2204 30 99; on the basis of prices for those products in international trade and within the limits resulting from agreements concluded in accordance with Article 228 of the Treaty, the difference between those prices and prices in the Community may be covered by export refunds. 2.
The refunds referred to in paragraph 1 (a) shall be fixed in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 83.
They shall be fixed at regular intervals.
Refunds shall be granted only on application and on presentation of the relevant export licence. 5.
The refund applicable to exports of products listed in Article 1 shall be that applicable on the day of application for the licence and, in the case of a differentiated refund, that applicable on the same day: (a) for the destination indicated on the licence or, if appropriate; (b) for the actual destination, if it differs from that indicated on the licence.
Appropriate measures may be taken to preclude abuse of the flexibility provided for in this paragraph. 6.
Paragraphs 4 and 5 may be waived in the case of products listed in Article 1 on which refunds are paid under food-aid operations, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 83. 7.
Compliance with the limits on volumes arising from agreements concluded in accordance with Article 228 of the Treaty shall be ensured on the basis of the export certificates issued for the reference periods provided for therein and applicable to the products concerned.
Detailed rules for the application of this Article, including provisions on redistribution of unallocated or unused exportable quantities, shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 83.
The amount of the refund for products referred to in Article 55 (1) (b) shall be: - in the case of raw sugar and white sugar, the amount of refund for export of these products unprocessed as fixed in accordance with Article 17 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1785/81 of 30 June 1981 on the common organization of the market in the sugar sector and with the provisions adopted for its application; - in the case of glucose and glucose syrup, the amount of the refund for export of these products unprocessed as fixed for each of these products in accordance with Article 13 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1766/92 of 30 June 1992 on the common organization of the market in cereals and with the provisions adopted for its application.
The following shall be taken into account when refunds are being fixed: (a) the existing situation and likely trends with regard to: - prices and availability of the products listed in Article 55 (1) on the Community market; - world market prices for those products; (b) the most advantageous marketing and transport costs from the Community markets to the ports or other export points of the Community as well as the costs of shipment to the country of destination; (c) the objectives of the common organization of the market in wine, which are to ensure balance on the market and natural development in respect of prices and trade; (d) limits arising out of agreements concluded in accordance with Article 228 of the Treaty; (e) the need to avoid disturbances on the Community market; (f) the economic aspect of the proposed exports. 4.
Community market prices referred to in Article 55 (1) shall be determined on the basis of the most advantageous export prices.
The following shall be taken into account the prices in international trade referred to in Article 55 (1) are being determined: (a) prices recorded on third-country markets; (b) the most advantageous prices in third countries of destination for imports from third countries; (c) producer prices recorded in exporting third countries, account being taken, where appropriate, of subsidies granted by those countries; (d) free-at-Community-frontier offer prices. 5.
The refund shall be paid upon proof that the products: - are of Community origin, save where paragraph 7 applies; - have been exported from the Community, and - in case of a differentiated refund, have reached the destination indicated on the licence or another destination for which the refund was fixed, without prejudice to Article 55 (5) (b).
However, exceptions may be made to this rule in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 83, provided that conditions are laid down which offer equivalent guarantees.
Additional provisions may be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 83. 7.
No export refund shall be granted on products imported from third countries and re-exported to third countries, unless the exporter proves that: - the product to be exported and the product previously imported are one and the same; - import duties have been collected on importation.
To the extent necessary for the proper working of the common organization of the market in wine, the Council, acting on a proposal from the Commission in accordance with the voting procedure set out in Article 43 (2) of the Treaty, may in particular cases prohibit the use of inward processing arrangements wholly or partially in respect of the products listed in Article 1. 2.
By way of derogation from paragraph 1, if the situation referred to in that paragraph occurs with particular urgency and if the Community market is, or is likely to be, disturbed by outward or inward processing arrangements, the Commission shall, at the request of a Member State or on its own initiative, decide upon the necessary measures; the Council and the Member States shall be notified of such measures, the period of validity of which may not exceed six months and which shall apply immediately.
If the Commission receives a request from a Member State, it shall take a decision thereon within one week of receipt of the request. 3.
The general rules for the interpretation of the combined nomenclature and the special rules for its application shall apply to the classification of products covered by this Regulation; the tariff nomenclature resulting from the application of this Regulation shall be incorporated in the Common Customs Tariff. 2.
Save as otherwise provided for this Regulation or pursuant to a provision thereof, the following shall be prohibited: - the levying of any charge having equivalent effect to a customs duty; - the application of any quantitative restriction or measure having equivalent effect.
If, by reason of imports or exports, the Community market in one or more of the products listed in Article 1 (2) is affected by, or is threatened with, serious disturbance likely to jeopardize the achievement of the objectives set out in Article 39 of the Treaty, appropriate measures may be applied in trade with third countries until such disturbance has ceased.
The Council, acting on a proposal from the Commission in accordance with the voting procedure laid down in Article 43 (2) of the Treaty, shall adopt general rules for the application of this paragraph and define the cases in which and the limits within which Member States may take interim protective measures. 2.
If the Commission receives a request from a Member State, it shall take a decision thereon within three working days following receipt of the request. 3.
This Article shall be applied having regard to the obligations arising from agreements concluded in accordance with Article 228 (2) of the Treaty.
Imported wine intended for direct human consumption and described with the aid of a geographical ascription may be eligible, with regard to its marketing in the Community and with the proviso that reciprocity exists, for the control and protection arrangements referred to in Article 16 of Regulation (EEC) No 823/87 for quality wines produced in specified regions. 2.
The Member States shall take all necessary measures to enable interested parties to prevent, on the terms stipulated in Articles 23 and 24 of the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights, the use in the Community of a geographical indication attached to the products referred to in Article 1 (2) (b) for products not originating in the place indicated by a geographical indication in question, even where the true origin of the goods is indicated or the geographical indication is used in translation or accompanied by expressions such as %quot%kind%quot%, %quot%type%quot%, %quot%style%quot%, %quot%imitation%quot% or the like.
Council Regulation (EEC) No 344/79 of 5 February 1979 (OJ No L 54, 5. 3. 1979, p. 67) Council Regulation (EEC) No 345/79 of 5 February 1979 (OJ No L 54, 5. 3. 1979, p. 69) as amended by Regulation (EEC) No 2009/81 (OJ No L 195, 18. 7. 1981, p. 6) The above Regulations are repealed.
Save as otherwise provided for in this Regulation or in provisions adopted pursuant thereto, the following shall be prohibited in trade with third countries: (a) the levying of any charge having equivalent effect to a customs duty; (b) the application of any quantitative restriction or measure having equivalent effect.
If, by reason of imports or exports, the Community market in one or more of the products listed in Article 1 is affected by, or is threatened with, serious disturbance likely to jeopardize the achievement of the objective set out in Article 39 of the Treaty, appropriate measures may be applied in trade with third countries until such disturbance of threat of disturbance has ceased.
The Council, acting on a proposal from the Commission in accordance with the voting procedure laid down in Article 43 (2) of the Treaty, shall adopt the general rules for the application of this paragraph and shall define in what cases and within what limits Member States may take protective measures. 2.
If the Commission receives a request from a Member State, it shall take a decision thereon within three working days following receipt of the request. 3.
Measures decided upon by the Commission may be referred to the Council by any Member State within three working days of the day on which they were notified.
Save as otherwise provided for in this Regulation or in provisions adopted pursuant thereto, the following shall be prohibited in trade with third countries: - the levying of any charge having equivalent effect to a customs duty, - the application of any quantitative restriction or measure having equivalent effect.
If, by reason of imports or exports, the Community market in one or more of the products listed in Article 1 is affected by, or is threatened with, serious disturbance likely to jeopardize the achievement of the objective set out in Article 39 of the Treaty, appropriate measures may be applied in trade with third countries until such disturbance of threat of disturbance or disturbance has ceased.
The Council, acting on a proposal from the Commission in accordance with the voting procedure laid down in Article 43 (2) of the Treaty, shall adopt the general rules for the application of this paragraph and shall define in what cases and within what limits Member States may take protective measures. 2.
If the Commission receives a request from a Member State, it shall take a decision thereon within three working days following receipt of the request. 3.
Council Regulation (EEC) No 234/68 of 27 February 1968 (OJ No L 55, 2. 3. 1968, p. 1), as last amended by Regulation (EEC) No 3336/92 (OJ No L 336, 20. 11. 1992, p. 1).
Such licences shall be issued subject to the lodging of a security guaranteeing the products are imported during the term of validity of the licence; except in cases of force majeure, the security shall be forfeited in whole or in part if import is not carried out, or is only carried out partially, within that period. 2.
The term of validity of licenses and other detailed rules for the application of this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 14.
Article 9 Unless this Regulation provides otherwise, the rates of duty in the Common Customs Tariff shall apply to the products listed in Article 1.
Save as otherwise provided for in this Regulation or in provisions adopted pursuant thereto, the following shall be prohibited in trade with third countries: - the levying of any charge having equivalent effect to a customs duty, - the application of any quantitative restriction or measure having equivalent effect.
If, by reason of imports or exports, the Community market in one or more of the products listed in Article 1 is affected by, or is threatened with, serious disturbance likely to jeopardize the achievement of the objectives set out in Article 39 of the Treaty, appropriate measures may be applied in trade with third countries until such disturbance or threat of disturbance has ceased.
The Council, acting on a proposal from the Commission in accordance with the voting procedure laid down in Article 43 (2) of the Treaty, shall adopt the general rules for the application of this paragraph and shall define in what cases and within what limits Member States may take protective measures. 2.
If the Commission receives a request from a Member State, is shall take a decision thereon within three working days following receipt of the request. 3.
Measures decided upon by the Commission may be referred to the Council by any Member State within three working days of the day on which they were notified.
The Commission shall adopt detailed rules for the application of this Article in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 14. 5.
This Article shall be applied having regard to the obligations arising from agreements concluded in accordance with Article 228 (2) of the Treaty.
ANNEX XX SEEDS I.
Unless this Regulation provides otherwise, the rates of duty in the Common Customs Tariff shall apply to the products listed in Article 1. 2.
Article 6 Save as otherwise provided for in this Regulation or in provisions adopted pursuant thereto, the following shall be prohibited in trade with third countries: - the levying of any charge having equivalent effect to a customs duty, - the application of any quantitative restriction or measure having equivalent effect.
If, by reason of imports or exports, the Community market in one or more of the products listed in Article 1 is affected by, or is threatened with, serious disturbance likely to jeopardize the achievement of the objectives set out in Article 39 of the Treaty, appropriate measures may be applied in trade with third countries until such disturbance or threat of disturbance has ceased.
The Council, acting on a proposal from the Commission in accordance with the voting procedure laid down in Article 43 (2) of the Treaty, shall adopt the general rules for the application of this paragraph and shall define in what cases and within what limits Member States may take protective measures. 2.
If the Commission receives a request from a Member State, is shall take a decision thereon within three working days following receipt of the request. 3.
This Article shall be applied having regard to the obligations arising from agreements concluded in accordance with Article 228 (2) of the Treaty.` 2.
Unless this Regulation provides otherwise, the rates of duty in the Common Customs Tariff shall apply to the products listed in the Annex. 2.
Save as otherwise provided for in this Regulation or in provisions adopted pursuant thereto and subject to the obligations arising from international agreements concerning the products listed in the Annex, the following shall be prohibited in trade with third countries: - the levying of any charge having equivalent effect to a customs duty, - the application of any quantitative restriction or measure having equivalent effect.
If, by reason of imports or exports, the Community market in one or more of the products listed in the Annex is affected by, or is threatened with, serious disturbance likely to jeopardize the achievement of the objectives set out in Article 39 of the Treaty, appropriate measures may be applied in trade with third countries until such disturbance or threat of disturbance has ceased.
The Council, acting on a proposal from the Commission in accordance with the voting procedure laid down in Article 43 (2) of the Treaty, shall adopt the general rules for the application of this paragraph and shall define in what cases and within what limits Member States may take protective measures. 2.
If the Commission receives a request from a Member State, is shall take a decision thereon within three working days following receipt of the request. 3.
ANNEX XXII THE OUTERMOST REGIONS I.
