However for Austria, Finland and Sweden the deadline for the transmission of changes concerning the notified points listed in annexes A and B is 1st October 1999.
Article 2 This Decision is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 3 September 1997.
For the Commission Yves-Thibault DE SILGUY Member of the Commission (1) OJ L 49, 21. 2. 1989, p. 26. (2) OJ L 155, 7. 6. 1989, p. 1.
GREECE a) Updating value added estimates for the following activities: - agriculture, - mining, - manufacturing, - public utilities, - construction, - transport and communication, - trade, - health services, - private education services, - other services; b) - inclusion of subsidies and classification of taxes, - treatment of housing services, - transition from GDP to GNP, - treatment of general government and private non-profit institutions, - treatment of financial institutions, - distinction between final use and intermediate consumption.
FRANCE a) - Improvement of certain statistical bases used to draw up national accounts, in particular use of the 1989 family budgets survey and improved correction for enterprises missing from the BIC ('bénéfices industriels et commerciaux`) statistics; b) - treatment of housing services, - transition from GDP to GNP, - treatment of general government and private non-profit institutions, - treatment of financial institutions, - demarcation of final uses and intermediate consumption.
LUXEMBOURG a) - revision of the valuation of stocks and of the treatment of the market activities and products of public administrations; b) - treatment of housing services, - transition from GDP to GNP, - treatment of general government and private non-profit institutions, - treatment of financial institutions, - distinction between final uses and intermediate consumption.
NETHERLANDS b) - inclusion of subsidies and classification of taxes, - treatment of housing services, - transition from GDP to GNP, - treatment of general government and private non-profit institutions, - treatment of financial institutions, - distinction between final uses and intermediate consumption.
AUSTRIA a) - improvement of intermediate consumption estimates for the renting of business buildings, - final consumption expenditure with respect to the estimate of the purchases of cars, - certain inaccuracies concerning the completeness of GFCF estimates; b) - inclusion of subsidies and classification of taxes, - treatment of housing services, - transition from GDP to GNP, - treatment of general government and private non-profit institutions, - treatment of financial institutions, - distinction between final uses and intermediate consumption.
