Amendments to the list of genera and species in Annex II shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 22.
If the result of their own checks or any information at the disposal of the suppliers referred to in paragraph 1 reveals the presence of one or more of the harmful organisms referred to in Directive 77/93/EEC or, in a quantity greater than that normaly allowed for in order to meet the standards, of those specified in the relevant schedules established pursuant to Article 4, the suppliers shall immediately report this to the responsible official body and shall carry out the measures indicated by that body or any other measure necessary to reduce the risk of such harmful organisms from spreading.
Detailed rules for the application of the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 21.
The supervision and monitoring of suppliers, establishments and laboratories shall be carried out regularly by or under the responsibility of the responsible official body, which shall at all times have free access to all parts of establishments, in order to ensure compliance with the requirements of this Directive.
Implementing measures concerning supervision and monitoring shall be adopted, as necessary, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 21.
Detailed rules for the application of paragraph 1 shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 21.
Pre-basic, basic and certified material may not be certified unless it belongs to a variety referred to in Article 9 (2) (i) and unless it meets the requirements for the category concerned laid down in the schedule referred to in Article 4.
Detailed rules for the application of point (c) shall be adopted preferably before 1 January 1993, in accordance with the same procedure.
The varieties to which reference shall be made pursuant to paragraph 1 must be: (i) either commonly known, and protected in accordance with the provisions on the protection of new varieties of plants, or officially registered on a voluntary or other basis; (ii) or entered on lists kept by the suppliers, with their detailed descriptions and relevant denominations.
They may also be officially registered if their material has been marketed in the territory of the Member State concerned prior to 1 January 1993, provided that they have an official description.
In the latter case the registration shall expire not later than 30 June 2000, unless by that date the varieties in question have been: - either confirmed, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 21, with a detailed description if they have been officially registered in at least two Member States, - or registered in accordance with the first sentence. 4.
Article 12 Member States may exempt: - from the application of Article 11, small producers all of whose production and sales of propagating material and fruit plants is intended for final use by persons on the local market who are not professionally involved in plant production ('local circulation'), - from the checks and official inspections provided for in Article 18, the local circulation of propagating materials and fruit plants produced by such exempt persons.
Article 13 In the event of temporary difficulties in the supply of propagating material and fruit plants satisfying the requirements of this Directive, measures may be adopted, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 21, concerning the marketing of propagating material and fruit plants meeting less stringent requirements, without prejudice to the plant-health rules laid down in Directive 77/93/EEC.
Article 14 Propagating material and fruit plants which comply with the requirements and conditions of this Directive shall be subject to no marketing restrictions as regards supplier, plant health, growing medium and inspection arrangements, other than those laid down in this Directive.
Article 15 As regards the products referred to in Annex II Member States shall refrain from imposing more stringent conditions or marketing restrictions other than the conditions laid down in the schedules referred to in Article 4 or those obtaining on the date of adoption of this Directive, as the case may be.
Pending the decision referred to in paragraph 1, Member States may, until 1 January 1993, and without prejudice to the provisions of Directive 77/93/EEC, apply to the import of propagating material and fruit plants from third countries conditions at least equivalent to those indicated, on a temporary or permanent basis, in the schedules adopted pursuant to Article 4.
If such conditions are not laid down in the schedules, the conditions for importation must be at least equivalent to those applicable to production in the Member State concerned.
In accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 21, the date referred to in the first subparagraph may, for the various third countries, be extended pending the decisions referred to in paragraph 1.
Propagating material and fruit plants imported by a Member State in accordance with a decision taken by that Member State pursuant to the first subparagraph shall be subject to no marketing restrictions in the other Member States as regards the matters referred to in paragraph 1.
Article 17 Member States shall ensure that propagating material and fruit plants are officially inspected during production and marketing, and by random checks in the case of CAC material, to verify compliance with the requirements and conditions set out in this Directive.
Article 18 Detailed rules for implementing the controls provided for in Article 5 and for the official inspection provided for in Articles 10 and 17, including sampling methods, shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 21.
The Commission shall ensure that, where necessary, arrangements for coordinating, carrying out and inspecting the trials referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2, and assessing their results, are adopted by the Committee set up by Article 21.
The opinion shall be delivered by the majority laid down in Article 148 (2) of the Treaty in the case of decisions which the Council is required to adopt on a proposal from the Commission.
The chairman shall not vote. 3.
In that event, the Commission may defer application of the measures which it has decided for a period of not more than one month from the date of such communication.
The opinion shall be delivered by the majority laid down in Article 148 (2) of the Treaty in the case of decisions which the Council is required to adopt on a proposal from the Commission.
The chairman shall not vote. 3.
Article 23 Amendments to the schedules established pursuant to Article 4 and to the conditions and detailed rules adopted for the implementation of this Directive shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 21.
Article 25 Within five years from the date of adoption of this Directive, the Commission shall examine the results of its application and submit to the Council a report, accompanied by any necessary proposals for amendments.
Member States shall bring into force the laws, regulations or administrative provisions necessary to comply with this Directive no later than 31 December 1992.
As far as Articles 5 to 11, 14, 15, 17, 19 and 24 are concerned, the date of application for each genus or species referred to in Annex II shall be fixed in accordance with the procedure provided for in Article 21, when the schedule referred to in Article 4 is drawn up.
Article 27 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Luxembourg, 28 April 1992.
ANNEX I Schedules referred to in accordance with Article 4 ANNEX II List of genera and species to which this Directive applies - Citrus sinensis (L.) Osbeck orange - Citrus limon (L.) Burm.
lemon - Citrus reticulata Blanco mandarin - Citrus paradisi Macf.
grapefruit - Citrus aurantifolia (Christm.) Swing lime - Corylus avellana L.
hazel - Fragaria x ananassa Duch.
strawberry - Juglans regia L.
walnut - Malus Mill.
apricot - Prunus avium L.
sweet cherry - Prunus cerasus sour cherry - Prunus domestica L.
plum - Prunus persica (L.) Batsch peach - Pyrus communis L.
