Directive 2002/59/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 June 2002 establishing a Community vessel traffic monitoring and information system and repealing Council Directive 93/75/EEC Directive 2002/59/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 June 2002 establishing a Community vessel traffic monitoring and information system and repealing Council Directive 93/75/EEC THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular Article 80(2) thereof, Having regard to the proposal from the Commission(1), Having regard to the Opinion of the Economic and Social Committee(2), Having regard to the opinion of the Committee of the Regions(3), Acting in accordance with the procedure indicated in Article 251 of the Treaty(4), Whereas: (1) In its communication of 24 February 1993 on a common policy on safe seas, the Commission indicated that one objective at Community level was the introduction of a mandatory information system to give Member States rapid access to all important information relating to the movements of ships carrying dangerous or polluting materials and to the precise nature of their cargo. (2) Council Directive 93/75/EEC of 13 September 1993 concerning minimum requirements for vessels bound for or leaving Community ports and carrying dangerous or polluting goods(5) introduced a system whereby the competent authorities receive information regarding ships bound for or leaving a Community port and carrying dangerous or polluting goods, and regarding incidents at sea.
That Directive requires the Commission to produce new proposals for the introduction of a fuller reporting system for the Community, possibly covering ships transiting along the coasts of Member States. (3) The Council Resolution of 8 June 1993 on a common policy on safe seas(6) agreed that the main objectives of Community action included the adoption of a fuller information system. (4) Setting up a Community vessel traffic monitoring and information system should help to prevent accidents and pollution at sea and to minimise their impact on the marine and coastal environment, the economy and the health of local communities.
The Commission should therefore examine the possibilities for introducing an adequate system of compensation for ports in the Community accommodating a ship in distress and the feasibility of requiring a ship coming to a Community port to be adequately insured. (17) A framework for cooperation between the Member States and the Commission needs to be established to enhance the implementation of the monitoring and information system for maritime traffic, with proper communication links being established between the competent authorities and ports of the Member States.
A system of sanctions should also be introduced to ensure that the parties concerned comply with the reporting and equipment carrying requirements laid down by this Directive. (19) The measures necessary for the implementation of this Directive should be adopted in accordance with Council Decision 1999/468/EC of 28 June 1999 laying down the procedures for the exercise of implementing powers conferred on the Commission(7). (20) Certain provisions of this Directive may be amended by that procedure so as to take account of the development of Community and international instruments and of experience gained in implementing this Directive, in so far as such amendments do not broaden the scope of the Directive.
This Directive shall not apply to: (a) warships, naval auxiliaries and other ships owned or operated by a Member State and used for non-commercial public service; (b) fishing vessels, traditional ships and recreational craft with a length of less than 45 metres; (c) bunkers below 5000 tons, ships' stores and equipment for use on board ships.
TITLE I SHIP REPORTING AND MONITORING Article 4 Notification prior to entry into ports of the Member States 1.
The operator, agent or master of a ship bound for a port of a Member State shall notify the information in Annex I(1) to the port authority: (a) at least twenty-four hours in advance; or (b) at the latest, at the time the ship leaves the previous port, if the voyage time is less than twenty-four hours; or (c) if the port of call is not known or it is changed during the voyage, as soon as this information is available. 2.
Article 5 Monitoring of ships entering the area of mandatory ship reporting systems 1.
The Member State concerned shall monitor and take all necessary and appropriate measures to ensure that all ships entering the area of a mandatory ship reporting system, adopted by the IMO according to Regulation 11 Chapter V of the SOLAS Convention and operated by one or more States, of which at least one is a Member State, in accordance with the relevant guidelines and criteria developed by the IMO, comply with that system in reporting the information required without prejudice to additional information required by a Member State in accordance with IMO Resolution A.851(20). 2.
Article 6 Use of automatic identification systems 1.
Article 7 Use of ship's routing systems 1.
Member States shall monitor and take all necessary and appropriate measures to ensure that all ships entering the area of a mandatory ships' routing system adopted by the IMO according to Regulation 10 Chapter V of the SOLAS Convention and operated by one or more States, of which at least one is a Member State, use the system in accordance with the relevant guidelines and criteria developed by the IMO. 2.
Article 8 Monitoring of the compliance of ships with vessel traffic services Member States shall monitor and take all necessary and appropriate measures to ensure that: (a) ships entering the area of applicability of a VTS operated by one or more States, of which at least one is a Member State, within their territorial sea and based on the guidelines developed by the IMO, participate in, and comply with, the rules of that VTS; (b) ships flying the flag of a Member State or ships bound for a port of a Member State and entering the area of applicability of such a VTS outside the territorial sea of a Member State and based on the guidelines developed by the IMO, comply with the rules of that VTS; (c) ships flying the flag of a third State and not bound for a port in a Member State entering a VTS area outside the territorial sea of a Member State, follow the rules of that VTS wherever possible.
Article 9 Infrastructure for ship reporting systems, ships' routing systems and vessel traffic services 1.
Article 10 Voyage data recorder systems 1.
Article 11 Casualty investigation Without prejudice to Article 12 of Directive 1999/35/EC, Member States shall comply with the provisions of the IMO Code for the investigation of marine casualties and incidents when conducting any marine casualty or incident investigation involving a ship referred to in this Directive.
TITLE II NOTIFICATION OF DANGEROUS OR POLLUTING GOODS ON BOARD SHIPS (HAZMAT) Article 12 Obligations on the shipper No dangerous or polluting goods may be offered for carriage or taken on board any ship, irrespective of its size, in a port of a Member State unless a declaration has been delivered to the master or operator containing the information listed in Annex I(2).
Article 13 Notification of dangerous or polluting goods carried on board 1.
The operator, agent or master of a ship, irrespective of its size, carrying dangerous or polluting goods and leaving a port of a Member State shall, at the latest at the moment of departure, notify the information indicated in Annex I(3) to the competent authority designated by that Member State. 2.
The operator, agent or master of a ship, irrespective of its size, carrying dangerous or polluting goods coming from a port located outside the Community and bound for a port of a Member State or an anchorage located in a Member State's territorial waters shall, at the latest upon departure from the loading port or as soon as the port of destination or the location of the anchorage is known, if this information is unavailable at the moment of departure, notify the information indicated in Annex I(3) to the competent authority of the Member State in which the first port of destination or anchorage is located. 3.
The port authority shall take the necessary measures to provide this information electronically and without delay to the competent authority, 24 hours a day upon request. 4.
The operator, agent or master of the ship must communicate the cargo information indicated in Annex I(3) to the port authority or the competent authority.
Article 14 Computerised exchange of data between Member States Member States shall cooperate to ensure the interconnection and interoperability of the national systems used to manage the information indicated in Annex I.
Member States may exempt scheduled services performed between ports located on their territory from the requirement laid down in Article 13 where the following conditions are met: (a) the company operating the scheduled services referred to above keeps and updates a list of the ships concerned and sends it to the competent authority concerned, (b) for each voyage performed, the information listed in Annex I(3) is kept available for the competent authority upon request.
The company must establish an internal system to ensure that, upon request 24 hours a day and without delay, the said information can be sent to the competent authority electronically, in accordance with Article 13(4). 2.
All Member States involved, including the coastal States concerned, shall collaborate in granting an exemption to the service concerned in accordance with the conditions laid down in paragraph 1. 3.
TITLE III MONITORING OF HAZARDOUS SHIPS AND INTERVENTION IN THE EVENT OF INCIDENTS AND ACCIDENTS AT SEA Article 16 Transmission of information concerning certain ships 1.
Ships meeting the criteria set out below shall be considered to be ships posing a potential hazard to shipping or a threat to maritime safety, the safety of individuals or the environment: (a) ships which, in the course of their voyage: - have been involved in incidents or accidents at sea as referred to in Article 17; or - have failed to comply with the notification and reporting requirements imposed by this Directive; or - have failed to comply with the applicable rules in ships' routing systems and VTS placed under the responsibility of a Member State; (b) ships in respect of which there is proof or presumptive evidence of deliberate discharges of oil or other infringements of the MARPOL Convention in waters under the jurisdiction of a Member State; (c) ships which have been refused access to ports of the Member States or which have been the subject of a report or notification by a Member State in accordance with Annex I-1 to Council Directive 95/21/EC of 19 June 1995 on port State control of shipping(9). 2.
Article 17 Reporting of incidents and accidents at sea 1.
Article 18 Measures in the event of exceptionally bad weather 1.
Where the competent authorities designated by Member States consider, in the event of exceptionally bad weather or sea conditions, that there is a serious threat of pollution of their shipping areas or coastal zones, or of the shipping areas or coastal zones of other States, or that the safety of human life is in danger: (a) they should, where possible, fully inform the master of a ship which is in the port area concerned, and intends to enter or leave that port, of the sea state and weather conditions and, when relevant and possible, of the danger they may present to his/her ship, the cargo, the crew and the passengers; (b) they may take, without prejudice to the duty of assistance to ships in distress and in accordance with Article 20, any other appropriate measures, which may include a recommendation or a prohibition either for a particular ship or for ships in general to enter or leave the port in the areas affected, until it has been established that there is no longer a risk to human life and/or to the environment; (c) they shall take appropriate measures to limit as much as possible or, if necessary, prohibit the bunkering of ships in their territorial waters. 2.
Article 19 Measures relating to incidents or accidents at sea 1.
Article 20 Places of refuge Member States, having consulted the parties concerned, shall draw up, taking into account relevant guidelines by IMO, plans to accommodate, in the waters under their jurisdiction, ships in distress.
Article 21 Information of the parties concerned 1.
Competent authorities holding information notified in accordance with Articles 13 and 17 shall make adequate arrangements to provide such information at any time upon request for safety reasons by the competent authority of another Member State. 3.
TITLE IV ACCOMPANYING MEASURES Article 22 Designation and publication of a list of competent bodies 1.
Article 24 Confidentiality of information Member States shall, in accordance with their national legislation, take the necessary measures to ensure the confidentiality of information sent to them pursuant to this Directive.
Article 25 Monitoring the implementation of this Directive and sanctions 1.
Member States shall carry out regular inspections and any other action required to check the functioning of the shore-based telematic systems set up to meet the requirements of this Directive, and in particular their capacity to meet the requirements of receiving or sending without delay, 24 hours a day, information notified pursuant to Articles 13 and 15. 2.
Article 26 Evaluation 1.
Member States must report to the Commission by 5 February 2007 on the progress in implementing this Directive and, in particular, the provisions of Articles 9, 10, 18, 20, 22, 23 and 25.
FINAL PROVISIONS Article 27 Amendment procedure 1.
The definitions in Article 3, the references to Community and IMO instruments and the Annexes may be amended in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 28(2) in order to bring them into line with Community or international law which have been adopted, amended or brought into force, insofar as such amendments do not broaden the scope of this Directive. 2.
Furthermore, Annexes I, III and IV may be amended in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 28(2), in the light of experience gained with this Directive, in so far as such amendments do not broaden the scope of this Directive.
Article 28 Committee procedure 1.
Member States shall adopt the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with this Directive by 5 February 2004 at the latest.
Article 30 Council Directive 93/75/EEC is hereby repealed as from 5 February 2004.
Article 31 This Directive shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Article 32 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Luxembourg, 27 June 2002.
Cox For the Council The President M.
Arias Ca単ete (1) OJ C 120 E, 24.4.2001, p. 67 and OJ C 362 E, 18.12.2001, p. 255. (2) OJ C 221, 7.8.2001, p. 54. (3) OJ C 357, 14.12.2001, p. 1. (4) Opinion of the European Parliament of 14 June 2001 (OJ C 53 E, 28.2.2002, p. 304), Council Common Position of 19 December 2001 (OJ C 58 E, 5.3.2002, p. 14) and Decision of the European Parliament of 10 April 2002 (not yet published in the Official Journal).
Information to be notified in accordance with Article 4 - General information: (a) ship identification (name, call sign, IMO identification number or MMSI number), (b) port of destination; (c) estimated time of arrival at the port of destination or pilot station, as required by the competent authority, and estimated time of departure from that port; (d) total number of persons on board. 2.
Information to be notified in accordance with Article 12 - Cargo information: (a) the correct technical names of the dangerous or polluting goods, the United Nations (UN) numbers where they exist, the IMO hazard classes in accordance with the IMDG, IBC and IGC Codes and, where appropriate, the class of the ship needed for INF cargoes as defined in Regulation VII/14.2, the quantities of such goods and, if they are being carried in cargo transport units other than tanks, the identification number thereof; (b) address from which detailed information on the cargo may be obtained. 3.
Information to be notified in accordance with Article 13: A.
General information: (a) ship identification (name, call sign, IMO identification number or MMSI number); (b) port of destination; (c) for a ship leaving a port in a Member State: estimated time of departure from the port of departure or pilot station, as required by the competent authority, and estimated time of arrival at the port of destination; (d) for a ship coming from a port located outside the Community and bound for a port in a Member State: estimated time of arrival at the port of destination or pilot station, as required by the competent authority; (e) total number of persons on board.
Information referred to in Article 5: - A.
date and time, - C or D.
port destination and estimated time of arrival, - P.
total number of persons on board, - X.
various information: - characteristics and estimated quantity of bunker fuel, for ships carrying more than 5000 tons of bunker fuel, - navigational status. 5.
ANNEX II PRESCRIPTIONS APPLICABLE TO ON-BOARD EQUIPMENT I.
Automatic identification systems (AIS) 1.
Member States may exempt passenger ships below 300 gross tonnage engaged in domestic trade from the application of the requirements concerning AIS laid down in this Annex.
Ships in the following classes must, inasmuch as they call at a port of a Member State of the Community, be fitted with a voyage data recorder system meeting the performance standards of IMO Resolution A.861(20) and the testing standards set by Standard No 61996 of the International Electronics Commission (IEC): (a) passenger ships built on or after 1 July 2002, not later than 1 July 2002; (b) ro-ro passenger ships built before 1 July 2002, not later than the first survey on or after 1 July 2002; (c) passenger ships other than ro-ro passenger ships, built before 1 July 2002, not later than 1 January 2004; (d) Ships other than passenger ships, of 3000 gross tonnage and upwards, built on or after 1 July 2002, not later than 5 August 2002. 2.
Ships in the following classes and built before 1 July 2002 must, inasmuch as they call at a port of a Member State of the Community, be fitted with a voyage data recorder system meeting the relevant IMO standards: (a) cargo ships of 20000 gross tonnage and upwards, not later than the date fixed by the IMO, or, in the absence of a decision in IMO, not later than 1 January 2007; (b) cargo ships of 3000 gross tonnage and upwards but less than 20000 gross tonnage, not later than the date fixed by the IMO, or, in the absence of a decision in IMO, not later than 1 January 2008. 3.
Member States may exempt passenger ships engaged only in domestic voyages in sea areas other than those covered by Class A, as referred to in Article 4 of Council Directive 98/18/EC of 17 March 1998 on safety rules and standards for passenger ships(1) from the voyage data recorder requirements laid down in this Directive. (1) OJ L 144, 15.5.1998, p. 1.
ANNEX III ELECTRONIC MESSAGES 1.
These procedures and infrastructure should incorporate, whenever practicable, reporting and information exchange obligations resulting from other Directives, such as Directive 2000/59/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 November 2000 on port reception facilities for ship-generated waste and cargo residues(1). (1) OJ L 332, 28.12.2000, p. 81.
ANNEX IV Measures available to Member States in the event of a threat to maritime safety and the protection of the environment (pursuant to Article 19(1)) Where, following an incident or circumstance of the type described in Article 17 affecting a ship, the competent authority of the Member State concerned deems, within the framework of international law, that it is necessary to avert, lessen or remove a serious and imminent threat to its coastline or related interests, the safety of other ships and their crews and passengers or of persons on shore or to protect the marine environment, that authority may, inter alia: (a) restrict the movement of the ship or direct it to follow a specific course.
