For the goods listed in Table 1 of Annex B, the charge referred to in paragraph 1 shall consist of: - an ad valorem duty, which is the fixed component of the charge, to take account of the production and marketing conditions of the goods; - an 'agricultural component` to offset the price differences referred to in point (b) of paragraph 1.
It may take the form of a variable component established in line with the conditions laid down in Article 3 or of a fixed component established in line with the conditions laid down in Article 5. 3.
The Commission shall fix a variable component for each of the goods listed in Table 1 of Annex B.
Where the maximum charge includes an additional duty on various kinds of sugar, expressed as sucrose (AD S/Z), or on flour (AD F/M), such additional duty shall be calculated, as appropriate, taking either sugar or flour as the sole agricultural product.
If the levies applicable to imports of the basic products referred to in Annex A are replaced by fixed amounts, the variable components applicable to the goods referred to in Table 1 of Annex B shall be calculated on the basis of these amounts. 2.
For each basic product to be taken into account in calculating the agricultural component of the charge, the amount established when Article 3 (2) is applied shall be replaced by the amount applicable to the basic product considered to have been used. 3.
For the purposes of determining the agricultural component in the case of trade in the framework of preferential agreements with countries that satisfy the requirements of Community legislation for processed agricultural products: (a) the quantities of agricultural products used, as determined in accordance with Article 13 (2), may be replaced by the quantities actually used in the manufacture of the imported goods if the Community has concluded a customs cooperation agreement covering the establishment of such quantities; in this case, conversion coefficients may be established taking account of the parties' respective definitions of these basic products to make them directly comparable; (b) the price difference referred to in Article 3 (2) may be replaced by a system of direct offsetting of the differences in agricultural prices in the Community and the region concerned or by direct offsetting vis-Ă -vis a jointly established price recognized for the region concerned; (c) where application of point (b) results in differences with little impact on the goods covered, this arrangement may be replaced by a system of flat-rate amounts or rates. 2.
The agricultural components referred to in paragraph 1 may apply for a period different from the period allowed for non-preferential trade. 3.
The ad valorem duties corresponding to the agricultural component of the charge for the goods in Table 2 of Annex B may be replaced by another agricultural component where provided for by a preferential agreement. 4.
The detailed rules for applying paragraphs 1 to 3 shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 16 if the preferential agreement concerned determines: - the agricultural prices adopted in the agreement, - the period for which these agricultural components are fixed, - any goods and agricultural products subject to the rules of the Agreement.
Any component or components not determined in the agreement in question shall be adopted by the Council in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 113 of the Treaty. 5.
The other implementing rules necessary in order to establish preferential arrangements shall be determined in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 16.
Where a preferential agreement provides for the reduction or phasing out of the part of the charge referred to in Article 2 (1) (a), this shall be the fixed component in the case of the goods listed in Table 1 of Annex B.
Any component or components not determined in the agreement in question shall be adopted by the Council in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 113 of the Treaty.
CHAPTER 2 Exportation Article 8 1.
On exportation of the goods, the agricultural products which have been used and which satisfy the conditions laid down in Article 9 (2) of the Treaty may qualify for refunds established pursuant to the regulations on the common organization of the market in the sectors concerned.
Article 9 Where, pursuant to a regulation on the common organization of a particular market, levies, charges or other measures are applied to exports of an agricultural product listed in Annex A, appropriate measures with regard to certain goods the export of which is likely to hinder achievement of the objective in the agricultural sector in question, because of their high content of the agricultural product concerned and the uses to which they may be put, may be decided, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 16, taking due account of the specific interest of the processing industry.
TITLE II GENERAL PROVISIONS Article 10 Where there is a danger that a reduction in the agricultural component applicable to imports of goods under a preferential agreement could disturb the agricultural markets or the markets in the goods concerned, the safeguard clauses applicable to imports of the agricultural products concerned shall also apply to the goods listed in Annex B.
Article 11 The quantity of agricultural products covered by the regulations on the common organization of markets which is not subject to levies or charges having an equivalent effect to customs duties, for the purpose of, or as a result of, exporting such goods, shall be determined in accordance with Regulation (EEC) No 2913/92.
Table 1 of Annex B may be amended by the Council acting in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 113 of the Treaty. 2.
Table 2 of Annex B may be amended in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 16, in order to adapt it to the agreements concluded by the Community. 3.
The characteristics of the basic products necessary in order to establish the terms for comparison of prices shall be determined in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 16.
The threshold or thresholds below which the amounts established in accordance with Article 3 (2) shall be fixed at zero may be laid down in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 16.
The non-application of the amounts established in accordance with Article 3 (2) may be made subject to special conditions, in accordance with the same procedure, in order to avoid creating artificial trade flows. 2.
Article 15 The Commission shall be assisted by a management committee on horizontal questions concerning trade in processed agricultural products not listed in Annex II, hereinafter referred to as 'the committee`, composed of representatives of the Member States and chaired by the representative of the Commission.
Article 16 In cases where reference is made to the procedure defined in this Article, the following provisions shall apply.
The opinion shall be delivered by the majority laid down in Article 148 (2) of the Treaty in the case of decisions which the Council is required to adopt on a proposal from the Commission.
Article 17 The committee may examine any other matter referred to it by its chairman, either on the chairman's own initiative or at the request of a Member State.
Article 18 In accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 16: - the amounts resulting from application of this Regulation may be amended when, during any three-monthly period: - a threshold price is altered or - a production refund or aid applicable in all the Member States is introduced, amended or abolished; - measures may be taken to bring the provisions of this Regulation into line with any technical amendments which may be made to the relevant regulations on agricultural products.
Article 19 Methods of qualitative and quantitative analysis of the goods and the other technical provisions necessary for identifying them or for determining their composition shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 10 of Regulation (EEC) No 2658/87.
Article 20 The Member States shall communicate to the Commission the information necessary for implementing this Regulation, on the one hand, on imports, exports and, even where appropriate, production of the goods and, on the other, on the administrative implementingmeasures adopted.
Article 21 Regulation (EEC) No 3033/80 shall be repealed on 1 January 1994.
It shall apply from 1 January 1994. 2.
The application of this Regulation to caseins falling within CN code 3501 10 and to caseinates and other casein derivatives falling within CN code 3501 90 90 shall be deferred until a further decision by the Council.
Done at Brussels, 6 December 1993.
ANNEX A %gt%TABLE%gt% ANNEX B %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt%
