Article 2 Definitions For the purposes of this Regulation: (a) %quot%medicinal product%quot% means a medicinal product for human use, as defined in Article 2 of Directive 65/65/EEC; (b) %quot%orphan medicinal product%quot% means a medicinal product designated as such under the terms and conditions of this Regulation; (c) %quot%sponsor%quot% means any legal or natural person, established in the Community, seeking to obtain or having obtained the designation of a medicinal product as an orphan medicinal product; (d) %quot%Agency%quot% means the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products.
Article 3 Criteria for designation 1.
The Commission shall adopt the necessary provisions for implementing this Article in the form of an implementing Regulation in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 72 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93(6).
Article 4 Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products 1.
The Agency shall provide the secretariat of the Committee. 7.
Article 5 Procedure for designation and removal from the register 1.
Where, in exceptional circumstances, the draft decision is not in accordance with the opinion of the Committee, the decision shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 73 of Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93.
Article 6 Protocol assistance 1.
The Agency shall draw up a procedure on the development of orphan medicinal products, covering regulatory assistance for the definition of the content of the application for authorisation within the meaning of Article 6 of Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93.
Article 7 Community marketing authorisation 1.
A special contribution from the Community, distinct from that provided for in Article 57 of Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93, shall be allocated every year to the Agency.
Article 8 Market exclusivity 1.
The Commission shall adopt definitions of %quot%similar medicinal product%quot% and %quot%clinical superiority%quot% in the form of an implementing Regulation in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 72 of Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93. 5.
Before 22 July 2000, the Member States shall communicate to the Commission detailed information concerning any measure they have enacted to support research into, and the development and availability of, orphan medicinal products or medicinal products that may be designated as such.
Before 22 January 2001, the Commission shall publish a detailed inventory of all incentives made available by the Community and the Member States to support research into, and the development and availability of, orphan medicinal products.
Article 10 General report Before 22 January 2006, the Commission shall publish a general report on the experience acquired as a result of the application of this Regulation, together with an account of the public health benefits which have been obtained.
Article 11 Entry into force This Regulation shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Done at Brussels, 16 December 1999.
FONTAINE For the Council The President K.
