Article 2 For the purposes of this Decision: 1. "Project" shall mean the specific, practical means deployed to implement all or part of an operation by the beneficiaries of grants.
The rules set out in the Annex to this Decision shall be used to determine the eligibility of expenditure of actions financed under the annual programmes referred to in Article 16 of Decision 2004/904/EC. 2.
Done at Brussels, 20 January 2006.
For the Commission Franco Frattini Vice-President [1] OJ L 381, 28.12.2004, p. 52. -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX ELIGIBILITY OF EXPENDITURE UNDER THE EUROPEAN REFUGEE FUND (2005-2010) 1.
GENERAL RULES Rule No 1 Costs must be directly linked to the objectives described in Article 1 of Council Decision 2004/904/EC.
Rule No 2 Costs must relate to the projects in the fields described in Articles 4 to 7 of Council Decision 2004/904/EC.
Rule No 3 Costs must relate to projects undertaken for the benefit of the target groups defined in Article 3 of Council Decision 2004/904/EC.
Rule No 4 Costs must be necessary for carrying out the projects covered by the multiannual and annual programmes as approved by the Commission.
Rule No 6 Costs must have actually been incurred, correspond to payments made by the beneficiary, be recorded in the accounts or tax documents of the beneficiary, and be identifiable and controllable.
Rule No 7 Projects supported by the Fund shall be cofinanced by public or private sources and shall not be eligible for funding from other sources covered by the Community budget.
Rule No 8 Staff costs The cost of staff assigned to the project, corresponding to real salaries plus social security charges and other remuneration-related costs, shall be eligible.
Rule No 9 Travel and subsistence costs Travel costs shall be eligible on the basis of the actual costs incurred.
Reimbursement rates should be based on the cheapest form of public transport and flights should, as a rule, be permitted only for journeys over 800 km (return trip), or where the geographical destination justifies travelling by air.
Rule No 12 Purchase of equipment In general the preferred option for equipment (e.g.
Rule No 13 Leasing Expenditure incurred in relation to leasing operations is eligible for co-financing under the European Refugee Fund subject to the rules set out in points A and B.
The Community aid in respect of leasing contracts referred to under point B.3 shall be paid to the lessee in one or more tranches in respect of leasing rentals effectively paid.
Rule No 14 Costs of consumables and supplies The costs of consumables and supplies are eligible, provided that they are identifiable and directly assigned to the project.
Supplies include food supplies for persons belonging to the target groups defined in Article 3 of Council Decision 2004/904/EC.
Rule No 15 Expenditure on subcontracting As a general rule beneficiaries must have the capacity to carry out the work themselves.
Rule No 16 Costs deriving directly from the requirements linked to EU co-financing Costs relating to publicity (dissemination of information, specific evaluation of the project, translation, reproduction, etc.) given to the project and EU co-financing are eligible.
Rule No 17 Bank charges on accounts Where co-financing by the European Refugee Fund requires the opening of a separate account or accounts for implementing a project, the bank charges for opening and administering the accounts are eligible.
Rule No 19 Costs of guarantees provided by a bank or other financial institution These costs are eligible to the extent that the guarantees are required by national or Community legislation or in the Commission Decision approving the co-financing.
Rule No 20 VAT and other taxes and charges VAT does not constitute eligible expenditure except where it is genuinely and definitively borne by the final beneficiary, or individual recipient within the aid schemes pursuant to Article 87 of the Treaty and in the case of aid granted by the bodies designated by the Member States.
Rule No 21 Expenditure by public administrations relating to the execution of projects The following expenditure by public administrations is eligible for co-financing outside technical assistance if it relates to the execution of a project, provided that it does not arise from the statutory responsibilities of the public authority or the authority's day-to-day management, monitoring and control tasks: (a) costs of professional services rendered by a public service in the implementation of an action.
Eligible indirect costs Rule No 22 Indirect costs A fixed percentage of overheads up to a maximum of 7 % of the total amount of eligible direct costs shall be eligible as indirect costs, provided this figure is included in the projectâ&#x20AC;&#x2122;s forward budget.
INELIGIBLE EXPENDITURE Rule No 23 Ineligible costs (1) The following costs shall not be eligible: return on capital, debt and debt service charges, debit interest, foreign exchange commissions and exchange losses, provisions for losses or potential future liabilities, interest owed, VAT (unless covered by the conditions set out in rule No 20), doubtful debts, fines, financial penalties, litigation costs, and excessive or reckless expenditure. (2) Entertainment costs exclusively for project staff are not eligible.
Rule No 24 Contributions in kind Contributions in kind shall not normally constitute eligible costs.
Such contributions shall not exceed 30 % of eligible project costs, or 20 % for Member States covered by the Cohesion Fund.
CATEGORIES OF MANAGEMENT, IMPLEMENTATION, MONITORING AND CONTROL EXPENDITURE ELIGIBLE FOR FINANCING UNDER "TECHICAL AND ADMINSITRATIVE ASSISTANCE" The following costs shall be eligible for financing under the technical assistance provided for in Article 18 of Council Decision 2004/904/EC: (a) costs linked to preparation, selection, evaluation, and follow-up of the actions co-financed by the European Refugee Fund.
Expenditure on the salaries of civil servants or other public officials in carrying out such actions is not eligible if such actions arise from the statutory responsibilities of the public authority or the authority's day-to-day management, monitoring and control tasks. [1] OJ L 145, 13.6.1977, p. 1.
Directive as last amended by Directive 2005/92/EC (OJ L 345, 28.12.2005, p. 19). --------------------------------------------------
