Article 2 The total number of officials to be covered by the measures referred to in Article 1 shall be 94 (12 As, 22 LAs, 8 Bs, 44 Cs, and 8 Ds).
The last basic salary shall be that for the grade and step held by the official concerned at the time of departure, determined by reference to the table in Article 66 of the Staff Regulations in force on the first day of the month for which the allowance is payable. 2.
The former official shall give a formal undertaking to provide any written proof which may be required, including an annual statement of income in the form of a salary statement or audited accounts, as appropriate, and a sworn or authenticated declaration that he or she is not in receipt of any other income from any new employment, and shall notify the institution of any other factor which may affect his or her right to the allowance, failing which he or she shall be liable to disciplinary action as provided for in Article 86 of the Staff Regulations. 5.
Provided that they are not receiving income from any gainful employment, recipients of the allowance shall be entitled, in respect of themselves and persons covered by their insurance, to benefits under the sickness insurance scheme provided for in Article 72 of the Staff Regulations provided they pay the relevant contribution, calculated on the basis of the allowance provided for in paragraph 1. 7.
For the purposes of Article 5 of Annex VIII to the Staff Regulations, such period shall be considered to be a period of service. 8.
On the death of a former official in receipt of the allowance provided for paragraph 1, dependent children within the meaning of Article 2 of Annex VII to the Staff Regulations shall be entitled to an orphan's pension on the conditions set out in the first, second and third subparagraphs of Article 80 of the Staff Regulations and in Article 21 of Annex VIII to the Staff Regulations.
Article 5 This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Done at Brussels, 30 September 2002.
MĂ¸ller (1) Opinion delivered on 24 September 2002 (not yet published in the Official Journal). (2) Opinion delivered on 15 May 2002. (3) OJ C 236, 1.10.2002, p. 4.
