Commission Regulation (EC) No 1602/2000 of 24 July 2000 amending Regulation (EEC) No 2454/93 laying down provisions for the implementation of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2913/92 establishing the Community Customs Code (Text with EEA relevance) Commission Regulation (EC) No 1602/2000 of 24 July 2000 amending Regulation (EEC) No 2454/93 laying down provisions for the implementation of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2913/92 establishing the Community Customs Code (Text with EEA relevance) THE COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, Having regard to Council Regulation (EEC) No 2913/92 of 12 October 1992 establishing the Community Customs Code(1), as last amended by European Parliament and Council Regulation (EC) No 955/1999(2) (hereinafter %quot%the Code%quot%), and in particular Article 249 thereof, Whereas: (1) In order to ensure the uniform treatment of applications for binding tariff information (BTI), and improved security for BTI, it is necessary to introduce a common application form for BTI. (2) The conditions governing the granting of favourable tariff treatment to goods by reason of their nature are being associated with the tariff classification for such goods in accordance with a single text in the Combined Nomenclature.
The old provisions contained in Commission Regulation (EEC) No 2454/93(3), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 1662/1999(4), therefore have to be deleted. (3) The Community's rules of origin applicable to the generalised system of preferences (GSP) provide for regional cumulation to apply, inter alia, to those countries which are members of the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN).
These provisions for regional cumulation should apply to Cambodia, which joined ASEAN on 30 April 1999.
This flexibility needs to be balanced by an increased efficiency of customs supervision to prevent fraud and misuse of favourable tariff treatments as well as reduced duty rates on account of the end-use of certain goods. (11) This requires the rules provided for by Article 82 of the Code to be made applicable to the favourable tariff treatment granted under Article 21 of the Code.
The customs supervision system provided for by the present Regulation is based on an authorisation issued by the customs authorities and applies to end-use referred to in Article 82 of the Code in so far as the provisions in force require such authorisation. (12) Articles 463 to 470 give effect to Article 843 where the transit procedure is used.
It is advisable in the interests of consistency to group the common provisions together under Article 843. (13) The provisions dealing with control copy T5 set out a procedure which should be applied to goods regardless of the customs procedure for which they have been entered, when so required by Community customs or other rules.
The specimen copies in Annex 63, and the explanatory notes in Annex 66 regarding the relevant boxes, should therefore be amended.
Where the value of the originating materials used needs to be established, this subparagraph shall be applied mutatis mutandis; (h) 'chapters' and 'headings' mean the chapters and the headings (four-digit codes) used in the nomenclature which makes up the Harmonised System; (i) 'classified' refers to the classification of a product or material under a particular heading; (j) 'consignment' means products which are either sent simultaneously from one exporter to one consignee or covered by a single transport document covering their shipment from the exporter to the consignee or, in the absence of such document, by a single invoice.
Section 1 Generalised system of preferences Subsection 1 Definition of the concept of originating products Article 67 1.
For the purposes of the provisions concerning generalised tariff preferences granted by the Community to products originating in developing countries (hereinafter referred to as 'beneficiary countries'), the following products shall be considered as originating in a beneficiary country: (a) products wholly obtained in that country within the meaning of Article 68; (b) products obtained in that country in the manufacture of which products other than those referred to in (a) are used, provided that the said products have undergone sufficient working or processing within the meaning of Article 69. 2.
For the purposes of this section, products originating in the Community, within the meaning of paragraph 3, which are subject in a beneficiary country to working or processing going beyond that described in Article 70 shall be considered as originating in that beneficiary country. 3.
Paragraph 1 shall apply mutatis mutandis in order to establish the origin of the products obtained in the Community. 4.
In so far as Norway and Switzerland grant generalised tariff preferences to products originating in the beneficiary countries referred to in paragraph 1 and apply a definition of the concept of origin corresponding to that set out in this section, products originating in the Community, Norway or Switzerland which are subject in a beneficiary country to working or processing going beyond that described in Article 70 shall be considered as originating in that beneficiary country.
The provisions of the first subparagraph shall apply only to products originating in the Community, Norway or Switzerland (according to the rules of origin relative to the tariff preferences in question) which are exported direct to the beneficiary country.
The following shall be considered as wholly obtained in a beneficiary country or in the Community: (a) mineral products extracted from its soil or from its seabed; (b) vegetable products harvested there; (c) live animals born and raised there; (d) products from live animals raised there; (e) products obtained by hunting or fishing conducted there; (f) products of sea fishing and other products taken from the sea outside its territorial waters by its vessels; (g) products made on board its factory ships exclusively from the products referred to in (f); (h) used articles collected there fit only for the recovery of raw materials; (i) waste and scrap resulting from manufacturing operations conducted there; (j) products extracted from the seabed or below the seabed which is situated outside its territorial waters but where it has exclusive exploitation rights; (k) goods produced there exclusively from products specified in (a) to (j). 2.
The terms 'its vessels' and 'its factory ships' in paragraph 1(f) and (g) shall apply only to vessels and factory ships: - which are registered or recorded in the beneficiary country or in a Member State, - which sail under the flag of a beneficiary country or of a Member State, - which are at least 50 % owned by nationals of the beneficiary country or of Member States or by a company having its head office in that country or in one of those Member States, of which the manager or managers, Chairman of the Board of Directors or of the Supervisory Board, and the majority of the members of such boards are nationals of that beneficiary country or of the Member States and of which, in addition, in the case of companies, at least half the capital belongs to that beneficiary country or to the Member States or to public bodies or nationals of that beneficiary country or of the Member States, - of which the master and officers are nationals of the beneficiary country or of the Member States, and - of which at least 75 % of the crew are nationals of the beneficiary country or of the Member States. 3.
The terms 'beneficiary country' and 'Community' shall also cover the territorial waters of that country or of the Member States. 4.
Article 69 For the purposes of Article 67, products which are not wholly obtained in a beneficiary country or in the Community are considered to be sufficiently worked or processed when the conditions set out in the list in Annex 15 are fulfilled.
If a product which has acquired originating status by fulfilling the conditions set out in the list is used in the manufacture of another product, the conditions applicable to the product in which it is incorporated shall not apply to it, and no account shall be taken of the non-originating materials which may have been used in its manufacture.
Without prejudice to paragraph 2, the following operations shall be considered as insufficient working or processing to confer the status of originating products, whether or not the requirements of Article 69 are satisfied: (a) operations to ensure the preservation of products in good condition during transport and storage (ventilation, spreading out, drying, chilling, placing in salt, sulphur dioxide or other aqueous solutions, removal of damaged parts, and like operations), (b) simple operations consisting of removal of dust, sifting or screening, sorting, classifying, matching (including the making-up of sets of articles), washing, painting, cutting up; (c) (i) changes of packing and breaking-up and assembly of packages, (ii) simple placing in bottles, flasks, bags, cases, boxes, fixing on cards or boards, etc., and all other simple packaging operations; (d) affixing marks, labels and other like distinguishing signs on products or their packaging; (e) simple mixing of products, whether or not of different kinds, where one or more components of the mixture do not meet the conditions laid down in this section to enable them to be considered as originating in a beneficiary country or in the Community; (f) simple assembly of parts to constitute a complete product; (g) a combination of two or more of the operations specified in (a) to (f); (h) slaughter of animals. 2.
All the operations carried out in either a beneficiary country or the Community on a given product shall be considered together when determining whether the working or processing undergone by that product is to be regarded as insufficient within the meaning of paragraph 1.
Where, under general rule 5 of the Harmonised System, packaging is included with the product for classification purposes, it shall be included for the purposes of determining origin.
By way of derogation from the provisions of Article 69, non-originating materials may be used in the manufacture of a given product, provided that their total value does not exceed 10 % of the ex-works price of the product.
Paragraph 1 shall not apply to products falling within Chapters 50 to 63 of the Harmonised System.
By way of derogation from Article 67, for the purposes of determining whether a product manufactured in a beneficiary country which is a member of a regional group originates therein with the meaning of that Article, products originating in any of the countries of that regional group and used in further manufacture in another country of the group shall be treated as if they originated in the country of further manufacture (regional cumulation). 2.
Regional cumulation shall apply to four separate regional groups of beneficiary countries benefiting from the generalised system of preferences: (a) the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) (Brunei-Darussalam, Cambodia(9), Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, Vietnam); (b) the Central American Common Market (CACM) (Costa Rica, Honduras, Guatemala, Nicaragua, Panama(10), El Salvador); (c) the Andean Community (Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Venezuela); (d) the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) (Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan, Sri Lanka)(11). 4.
When goods originating in a country which is a member of a regional group are worked or processed in another country of the same regional group, they shall have the origin of the country of the regional group where the last working or processing was carried out, provided that: (a) the value added there, as defined in paragraph 3, is greater than the highest customs value of the products used originating in any one of the other countries of the regional group, and (b) the working or processing carried out there exceeds that set out in Article 70 and, in the case of textile products, also those operations referred to at Annex 16. 2.
Proof of the originating status, acquired or retained under the terms of Article 72, this Article and Article 72b, of goods exported from a country of a regional group to the Community, shall be established by a certificate of origin Form A issued or an invoice declaration made out in that country on the basis of a certificate of origin Form A issued according to the provisions of paragraph 4. 6.
The country of origin shall be marked in box 12 of the certificate of origin Form A or on the invoice declaration, that country being: - in the case of products exported without further working or processing according to paragraph 4, the country of manufacture; - in the case of products exported after further working or processing, the country of origin as determined in accordance with paragraph 1.
The Secretariats are as follows: - the ASEAN General Secretariat, - Secretaría de Integración Económica Centroamericana (SIECA), - the Junta del Acuerdo de Cartagena, - the SAARC Secretariat, as the case may be. 2.
The Commission shall inform the Member States when the conditions set out in paragraph 1 have been satisfied, in the case of each regional group. 3.
Article 78(1)(b) shall not apply to products originating in any of the countries of the regional group when they pass through the territory of any of the other countries of the regional group, whether or not further working or processing take place there.
Article 73 Accessories, spare parts and tools dispatched with a piece of equipment, machine, apparatus or vehicle which are part of the normal equipment and included in the price thereof or which are not separately invoiced, shall be regarded as one with the piece of equipment, machine, apparatus or vehicle in question.
Article 74 Sets, as defined in general rule 3 of the Harmonised System, shall be regarded as originating when all the component products are originating products.
Nevertheless, when a set is composed of originating and non-originating products, the set as a whole shall be regarded as originating, provided that the value of the non-originating products does not exceed 15 % of the ex-works price of the set.
Article 75 In order to determine whether a product is an originating product, it shall not be necessary to determine the origin of the following which might be used in its manufacture: (a) energy and fuel; (b) plant and equipment; (c) machines and tools; (d) goods which do not enter, and which are not intended to enter, into the final composition of the product.
In order to facilitate the examination of requests for derogation, the country making the request shall furnish in support of its request the fullest possible information, covering in particular the points listed below: - description of the finished product, - nature and quantity of materials originating in a third country, - manufacturing process, - value added, - the number of employees in the enterprise concerned, - the anticipated volume of the exports to the Community, - other possible sources of supply for raw materials, - reasons for the duration requested, - other observations. 4.
It shall be decided on according to the procedure laid down in Article 249 of the Code. 5.
Where use is made of a derogation, the following phrase must appear in box 4 of the certificate of origin Form A, or on the invoice declaration laid down in Article 89: 'Derogation - Regulation (EC) No .../...'. 6.
Article 77 The conditions set out in this section for acquiring originating status must continue to be fulfilled at all times in the beneficiary country or in the Community.
If originating products exported from the beneficiary country or from the Community to another country are returned, they must be considered as non-originating unless it can be demonstrated to the satisfaction of the competent authorities that: - the products returned are the same as those which were exported, and - they have not undergone any operations beyond that necessary to preserve them in good condition while in that country or while being exported.
The following shall be considered as transported direct from the beneficiary country to the Community or from the Community to the beneficiary country: (a) products transported without passing through the territory of any other country, except in the case of the territory of another country of the same regional group where Article 72 is applied; (b) products constituting one single consignment transported through the territory of countries other than the beneficiary country or the Community, with, should the occasion arise, trans-shipment or temporary warehousing in those countries, provided that the products remain under the surveillance of the customs authorities in the country of transit or of warehousing and do not undergo operations other than unloading, reloading or any operation designed to preserve them in good condition; (c) products transported through the territory of Norway or Switzerland and subsequently re-exported in full or in part to the Community or to the beneficiary country, provided that the products remain under the surveillance of the customs authorities of the country of transit or of warehousing and do not undergo operations other than unloading, reloading or any operation designed to preserve them in good condition; (d) products which are transported by pipeline without interruption across a territory other than that of the exporting beneficiary country or of the Community. 2.
Originating products sent from a beneficiary country for exhibition in another country and sold after the exhibition for importation into the Community shall benefit, on importation, from the tariff preferences referred to in Article 67, provided that the products meet the requirements of this section entitling them to be recognised as originating in the beneficiary country and provided that it is shown to the satisfaction of the competent Community customs authorities that: (a) an exporter has consigned these products from the beneficiary country directly to the country in which the exhibition is held and has exhibited them there; (b) the products have been sold or otherwise disposed of by that exporter to a person in the Community; (c) the products have been consigned during the exhibition or immediately thereafter to the Community in the state in which they were sent for exhibition; (d) the products have not, since they were consigned for exhibition, been used for any purpose other than demonstration at the exhibition. 2.
Subsection 2 Proof of origin Article 80 Products originating in the beneficiary country shall benefit from the tariff references referred to in Article 67, on submission of either: (a) a certificate of origin Form A, a specimen of which appears in Annex 17; or (b) in the cases specified in Article 89(1), a declaration, the text of which appears in Annex 18, given by the exporter on an invoice, a delivery note or any other commercial document which describes the products concerned in sufficient detail to enable them to be identified (hereinafter referred to as the 'invoice declaration'). (a) CERTIFICATE OF ORIGIN FORM A Article 81 1.
A certificate of origin Form A may be issued only where it can serve as the documentary evidence required for the purposes of the tariff preferences referred to in Article 67. 3.
The exporter or his authorised representative shall submit with his application any appropriate supporting documents proving that the products to be exported qualify for the issue of a certificate of origin Form A. 5.
The certificate shall be issued by the competent governmental authorities of the beneficiary country if the products to be exported can be considered as products originating in that country within the meaning of Subsection 1.
For the purposes of verifying whether the conditions set out in paragraph 5 have been met, the competent governmental authorities shall have the right to call for any documentary evidence or to carry out any check which they consider appropriate. 7.
Box 12 shall be duly completed by indicating 'European Community' or one of the Member States. 9.
Article 82 Where, at the request of the importer and on the conditions laid down by the customs authorities of the importing country, dismantled or non-assembled products within the meaning of general rule 2(a) of the Harmonised System and falling within Section XVI or XVII or heading No 7308 or 9406 of the Harmonised System are imported by instalments, a single proof of origin for such products shall be submitted to the customs authorities on importation of the first instalment.
Article 83 Since the certificate of origin Form A constitutes the documentary evidence for the application of provisions concerning the tariff preferences referred to in Article 67, it shall be the responsibility of the competent governmental authorities of the exporting country to take any steps necessary to verify the origin of the products and to check the other statements on the certificate.
Article 84 Proofs of origin shall be submitted to the customs authorities of the Member States of importation in accordance with the procedures laid down in Article 62 of the Code.
The competent governmental authorities may issue a certificate retrospectively only after verifying that the information supplied in the exporter's application agrees with that in the corresponding export file and that a certificate of origin Form A satisfying the provisions of this section was not issued when the products in question were exported. 3.
Box 4 of certificates of origin Form A issued retrospectively must contain the endorsement 'Issued retrospectively' or 'Délivré a posteriori'.
In the event of the theft, loss or destruction of a certificate of origin Form A, the exporter may apply, to the competent governmental authorities which issued it, for a duplicate to be made out on the basis of the export documents in their possession.
When originating products are placed under the control of a customs office in the Community, it shall be possible to replace the original proof of origin by one or more certificates of origin Form A for the purpose of sending all or some of these products elsewhere within the Community or to Switzerland or Norway.
The replacement certificate issued in application of paragraph 1 or Article 88 shall be regarded as the definitive certificate of origin for the products to which it refers.
The replacement certificate shall be made out on the basis of a written request by the re-exporter. 3.
Box 4 shall contain the words 'Replacement certificate' or 'Certificat de replacement', as well as the date of issue of the original certificate of origin and its serial number.
In the case of products which benefit from the tariff preferences referred to in Article 67, under a derogation granted in accordance with the provisions of Article 76, the procedure laid down in this Article shall apply only when such products are intended for the Community.
The verification procedure laid down in Article 94 shall apply mutatis mutandis.
The invoice declaration may be made out: (a) by an approved Community exporter within the meaning of Article 90, or (b) by any exporter for any consignment consisting of one or more packages containing originating products whose total value does not exceed EUR 6000, and provided that the assistance referred to in Article 81(1) shall apply to this procedure. 2.
An invoice declaration may be made out if the products concerned can be considered as originating in the Community or in a beneficiary country, and fulfil the other requirements of this section. 3.
The exporter making out an invoice declaration shall be prepared to submit at any time, at the request of the customs or other competent governmental authorities of the exporting country, all appropriate documents proving the originating status of the products concerned as well as the fulfilment of the other requirements of this section. 4.
An invoice declaration shall be made out by the exporter in either French or English by typing, stamping or printing on the invoice, the delivery note or any other commercial document, the declaration, the text of which appears in Annex 18.
In the cases referred to in paragraph 1(b), the use of an invoice declaration shall be subject to the following special conditions: (a) one invoice declaration shall be made out for each consignment; (b) if the goods contained in the consignment have already been subject to verification in the exporting country by reference to the definition of 'originating products', the exporter may refer to this check in the invoice declaration.
The customs authorities shall grant to the approval exporter a customs authorisation number which shall appear on the invoice declaration. 4.
The customs authorities shall monitor the use of the authorisation by the approved exporter. 5.
The customs authorities may withdraw the authorisation at any time.
Evidence of the originating status of Community products within the meaning of Article 67(2) shall be furnished by either: (a) the production of an EUR.1 movement certificate, a specimen of which is set out in Annex 21; or (b) the production of a declaration as referred to in Article 89. 2.
The exporter or his authorised representative shall enter 'GSP beneficiary countries' and 'EC', or 'Pays bénéficiaires du SPG' and 'CE', in box 2 of the movement certificate EUR.1. 3.
Proofs of origin which are submitted to the customs authorities of the importing country after the final date for presentation specified in paragraph 1 may be accepted for the purpose of applying the tariff preferences referred to in Article 67, where the failure to submit these documents by the final date set is due to exceptional circumstances. 3.
This procedure shall be applicable for the quantities and a period determined by the competent customs authorities.
Products sent as small packages from private persons to private persons or forming part of travellers' personal luggage shall be admitted as originating products benefiting from the tariff preferences referred to in Article 67 without requiring the presentation of a certificate of origin Form A or an invoice declaration, provided that such products are not imported by way of trade and have been declared as meeting the conditions required for the application of this section and where there is no doubt as to the veracity of such a declaration. 2.
Furthermore, the total value of these products shall not exceed EUR 500 in the case of small packages or EUR 1200 in the case of products forming part of travellers' personal luggage.
When Article 67(2), (3) or (4) applies, the competent governmental authorities of the beneficiary country called on to issue a certificate of origin Form A for products in the manufacture of which materials originating in the Community, Norway or Switzerland are used shall rely on the EUR.1 movement certificate or, where necessary, the invoice declaration. 2.
Box 4 of certificates of origin Form A issued in the cases set out in paragraph 1 shall contain the remark 'EC cumulation', 'Norway cumulation', 'Switzerland cumulation', or 'Cumul CE', 'Cumul Norvège', 'Cumul Suisse'.
Article 92 The discovery of slight discrepancies between the statements made in the certificate of origin Form A, in the EUR.1 movement certificate or in an invoice declaration, and those made in the documents submitted to the customs office for the purpose of carrying out the formalities for importing the products shall not ipso facto render the certificate or declaration null and void if it is duly established that that document does correspond to the products submitted.
Subsection 3 Methods of administrative cooperation Article 93 1.
The beneficiary countries shall inform the Commission of the names and addresses of the governmental authorities situated in their territory which are empowered to issue certificates of origin Form A, together with specimen impressions of the stamps used by those authorities, and the names and addresses of the relevant governmental authorities responsible for the control of the certificates of origin Form A and the invoice declarations.
This information is for official use; however, when goods are to be released for free circulation, the customs authorities in question may allow the importer or his duly authorised representative to consult the specimen impressions of the stamps mentioned in this paragraph. 2.
The Commission shall publish, in the Official Journal of the European Communities ('C' series), the date on which the new beneficiary countries referred to in Article 97 met the obligations set out in paragraph 1. 3.
The Commission shall send, to the beneficiary countries, specimen impressions of the stamps used by the customs authorities of the Member States for the issue of EUR.1 movement certificates.
Article 93a For the purposes of the provisions concerning the tariff preferences referred to in Article 67, every beneficiary country shall comply or ensure compliance with the rules concerning the origin of the products, the completion and issue of certificates of origin Form A, the conditions for the use of invoice declarations and those concerning methods of administrative cooperation.
When an application for subsequent verification has been made in accordance with paragraph 1, such verification shall be carried out and its results communicated to the customs authorities in the Community within a maximum of six months.
The results shall be such as to establish whether the proof of origin in question applies to the products actually exported and whether these products can be considered as products originating in the beneficiary country or in the Community. 4.
In the case of certificates of origin Form A issued in accordance with Article 91, the reply shall include a copy (copies) of the EUR.1 movement certificate(s) or, where necessary, of the corresponding invoice declaration(s). 5.
The provisions of the first subparagraph shall apply between the countries of the same regional group for the purposes of the subsequent verification of the certificates of origin Form A issued in accordance with this section. 6.
Subsection 4 Ceuta and Melilla Article 96 1.
The term 'Community' used in this section shall not cover Ceuta and Melilla.
The term 'products originating in the Community' shall not cover products originating in Ceuta and Melilla. 2.
This Section shall apply mutatis mutandis in determining whether products may be regarded as originating in the exporting beneficiary country benefiting from the generalised system of preferences when imported into Ceuta and Melilla or as originating in Ceuta and Melilla. 3.
The provisions of this section concerning the issue, use and subsequent verification of certificates of origin Form A shall apply mutatis mutandis to products originating in Ceuta and Melilla. 5.
Subsection 5 Final provision Article 97 When a country or territory is admitted or readmitted as a beneficiary country in respect of products referred to in the relevant Council Regulations or the ECSC Decision, goods originating in that country or territory may benefit from the generalised system of preferences on condition that they were exported from the beneficiary country or territory on or after the date referred to in Article 93(2).
For the purposes of the provisions concerning tariff preferences granted by the Community to certain products originating in the Republics of Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Croatia, in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (for certain wines) and in the Republic of Slovenia (for certain wines) (hereinafter referred to as 'beneficiary republics'), the following products shall be considered as originating in a beneficiary republic: (a) products wholly obtained in that beneficiary republic with the meaning of Article 99; (b) products obtained in that beneficiary republic, in the manufacture of which products other than those referred to in (a) are used, provided that the said products have undergone sufficient working or processing within the meaning of Article 100. 2.
For the purposes of this section, products originating in the Community, within the meaning of paragraph 3, which are subject in a beneficiary republic to working or processing going beyond that described in Article 101 shall be considered as originating in that beneficiary republic. 3.
The following shall be considered as wholly obtained in a beneficiary republic or in the Community: (a) mineral products extracted from its solid or from its seabed; (b) vegetable products harvested there; (c) live animals born and raised there; (d) products from live animals raised there; (e) products obtained by hunting or fishing conducted there; (f) products of sea-fishing and other products taken from the sea outside the territorial waters by its vessels; (g) products made on board its factory ships exclusively from the products referred to in (f); (h) used articles collected there, fit only for the recovery of raw materials; (i) waste and scrap resulting from manufacturing operations conducted there; (j) products extracted from the seabed or below the seabed which is situated outside its territorial waters but where it has exclusive exploitation rights; (k) goods produced there exclusively from products specified in (a) to (j). 2.
The terms 'its vessels' and 'its factory ships' in paragraph 1(f) and (g) shall apply only to vessels and factory ships: - which are registered or recorded in the beneficiary republic or in a Member State, - which sail under the flag of a beneficiary republic or of a Member State, - which are owned to the extent of at least 50 % by nationals of the beneficiary republic or of Member States or by a company with its head office in that republic or in one of the Member States, of which the manager or managers, Chairman of the Board of Directors or of the Supervisory Board, and the majority of the members of such boards are nationals of that beneficiary republic or of the Member States and of which, in addition, in the case of companies, at least half the capital belongs to that beneficiary republic or to the Member States or to public bodies or nationals of that beneficiary republic or of the Member States, - of which the master and officers are nationals of the beneficiary Republic or of the Member States, and - of which at least 75 % of the crew are nationals of the beneficiary republic or of the Member States. 3.
The terms 'beneficiary republic' and 'Community' shall also cover the territorial waters of that republic or of the Member States. 4.
Article 100 For the purposes of Article 98, products which are not wholly obtained in a beneficiary republic or in the Community are considered to be sufficiently worked or processed when the conditions set out in the list in Annex 15 are fulfilled.
If a product which has acquired originating status by fulfilling the conditions set out in the list is used in the manufacture of another product, the conditions applicable to the product in which it is incorporated do not apply to it, and no account shall be taken of the non-originating materials which may have been used in its manufacture.
Without prejudice to paragraph 2, the following operations shall be considered as insufficient working or processing to confer the status of originating products, whether or not the requirements of Article 100 are satisfied: (a) operations to ensure the preservation of products in good condition during transport and storage (ventilation, spreading-out, drying, chilling, placing in salt, sulphur dioxide or other aqueous solutions, removal of damaged parts, and like operations); (b) simple operations consisting of removal of dust, sifting or screening, sorting, classifying, matching (including the making-up of sets of articles), washing, painting, cutting up; (c) (i) changes of packing and breaking-up and assembly of packages, (ii) simple placing in bottles, flasks, bags, cases, boxes, fixing on cards or boards, etc., and all other simple packaging operations; (d) affixing marks, labels and other like distinguishing signs on products or their packaging; (e) simple mixing of products, whether or not of different kinds, where one or more components of the mixture do not meet the conditions laid down in this section to enable them to be considered as originating in a beneficiary republic or in the Community; (f) simple assembly of parts to constitute a complete product; (g) a combination of two or more of the operations specified in (a) to (f); (h) slaughter of animals. 2.
All the operations carried out in either a beneficiary republic or the Community on a given product shall be considered together when determining whether the working or processing undergone by that product is to be regarded as insufficient within the meaning of paragraph 1.
Article 101a 1.
Where, under general rule 5 of the Harmonised System, packaging is included with the product for classification purposes, it shall be included for the purposes of determining origin.
By way of derogation from the provisions of Article 100, non-originating materials may be used in the manufacture of a given product, provided that their total value does not exceed 10 % of the ex-works price of the product.
Paragraph 1 shall not apply to products falling within Chapters 50 to 63 of the Harmonised System.
Article 103 Accessories, spare parts and tools dispatched with a piece of equipment, machine, apparatus or vehicle which are part of the normal equipment and included in the price thereof or which are not separately invoiced regarded as one with the piece of equipment, machine, apparatus or vehicle in question.
Article 104 Sets, as defined in general rule 3 of the Harmonised System, shall be regarded as originating when all the component products are originating.
Nevertheless, when a set is composed of originating and non-originating products, the set as a whole shall be regarded as originating provided that the value of the non-originating products does not exceed 15 % of the ex-works price of the set.
Article 105 In order to determine whether a product is an originating product, it shall not be necessary to determine the origin of the following which might be used in its manufacture: (a) energy and fuel; (b) plant and equipment; (c) machines and tools; (d) goods which do not enter, and which are not intended to enter, into the final composition of the product.
Article 106 The conditions set out in this section for acquiring originating status must continue to be fulfilled at all times in the beneficiary republic or in the Community.
The following shall be considered as transported directly from the beneficiary republic to the Community or from the Community to the beneficiary republic: (a) products transported without passing through the territory of any other country; (b) products constituting one single consignment transported through the territory of countries other than the beneficiary republic or the Community, with, should the occasion arise, trans-shipment or temporary warehousing in those countries, provided that the products remain under the surveillance of the customs authorities in the country of transit or of warehousing and do not undergo operations other than unloading, reloading or any operation designed to preserve them in good condition; (c) products which are transported by pipeline without interruption across a territory other than that of the exporting beneficiary republic or of the Community. 2.
Originating products, sent from a beneficiary republic for exhibition in another country and sold after the exhibition for importation into the Community, shall benefit on importation from the tariff preferences referred to in Article 98, provided that they meet the requirements of this section entitling them to be recognised as originating in that beneficiary republic and provided that it is shown to the satisfaction of the competent Community customs authorities that: (a) an exporter has consigned the products from the beneficiary republic directly to the country in which the exhibition is held and has exhibited them there; (b) the products have been sold or otherwise disposed of by that exporter to a person in the Community; (c) the products have been consigned during the exhibition or immediately thereafter to the Community in the state in which they were sent for exhibition; (d) the products have not, since they were consigned for exhibition, been used for any purpose other than demonstration at the exhibition. 2.
Subsection 2 Proof of origin Article 109 Products originating in the beneficiary republic shall benefit from the tariff preferences referred to in Article 98, on submission of either: (a) an EUR.1 movement certificate, a specimen of which appears in Annex 21, or (b) in the cases specified in Article 116(1), a declaration, the text of which appears in Annex 22, given by the exporter on an invoice, a delivery note or any other commercial document which describes the products concerned in sufficient detail to enable them to be identified (hereinafter referred to as the 'inovice declaration'). (a) EUR.1 MOVEMENT CERTIFICATE Article 110 1.
An EUR.1 movement certificate may be issued only where it can serve as the documentary evidence required for the purposes of the tariff preferences referred to on Article 98. 3.
Applications for EUR.1 movement certificates shall be kept for at least three years by the competent authorities of the exporting beneficiary republic or Member State. 4.
The EUR.1 movement certificate shall be issued by the competent governmental authorities of the beneficiary republics or by the customs authorities of the exporting Member State, if the products to be exported can be considered as originating products within the meaning of this section. 6.
Since the EUR.1 movement certificate constitutes the documentary evidence for the application of the preferential arrangements set out in Article 98, it shall be the responsibility of the competent governmental authorities of the beneficiary republic or of the customs authorities of the exporting Member State to take any steps necessary to verify the origin of the products and to check the other statements on the certificate. 7.
For the purpose of verifying whether the conditions set out in paragraph 5 have been met, the competent governmental authorities of the beneficiary republic or the customs authorities of the exporting member State shall have the right to call for any documentary evidence or to carry out any check which they consider appropriate. 8.
It shall be the responsibility of the competent governmental authorities of the beneficiary republic or of the customs authorities of the exporting Member State to ensure that the forms referred to in paragraph 1 are duly completed. 9.
An EUR.1 movement certificate shall be issued by the competent authorities of the beneficiary republic or by the customs authorities of the exporting Member State when the products to which it relates are exported.
Article 111 Where, at the request of the importer and on the conditions laid down by the customs authorities of the importing country, dismantled or non-assembled products within the meaning of general rule 2(a) of the Harmonised System and falling within Section XVI or XVII or within heading No 7308 or 9406 of the Harmonised System are imported by instalments, a single proof of origin for such products shall be submitted to the customs authorities on importation of the first instalment.
Article 112 Proofs of origin shall be submitted to the customs authorities of the Member State of importation in accordance with the procedures laid down in Article 62 of the Code.
The competent authorities may issue an EUR.1 movement certificate retrospectively only after verifying that the information supplied in the exporter's application agrees with that in the corresponding export file and that an EUR.1 movement certificate satisfying the provisions of this section was not issued when the products in question were exported. 3.
EUR.1 movement certificates issued retrospectively shall be endorsed with one of the following phrases: - 'EXPEDIDO A POSTERIORI', - 'UDSTEDT EFTERFØLGENDE', - 'NACHTRÄGLICH AUSGESTELLT', - 'ΕΚΔΟΘΕΝ ΕΚ ΤΩΝ ΥΣΤΕΡΩΝ', - 'ISSUED RETROSPECTIVELY', - 'DÉLIVRÉ A POSTERIORI', - 'RILASCIATO A POSTERIORI', - 'AFGEGEVEN A POSTERIORI', - 'EMITIDO A POSTERIORI', - 'ANNETTU JÄLKIKÄTEEN', - 'UTFÄRDAT I EFTERHAND'. 4.
In the event of the theft, loss or destruction of an EUR.1 movement certificate, the exporter may apply to the competent authorities which issued it, for a duplicate to be made out on the basis of the export documents in their possession. 2.
The duplicate issued in this way shall be endorsed with one of the following words: - 'DUPLICADO', - 'DUPLIKAT', - 'DUPLIKAT', - 'ΑΝΤΙΓΡΑΦΟ', - 'DUPLICATE', - 'DUPLICATA', - 'DUPLICATO', - 'DUPLICAAT', - 'SEGUNDA VIA', - 'KAKSOISKAPPALE', - 'DUPLIKAT'. 3.
Article 115 When originating products are placed under the control of a customs office in the Community, it shall be possible to replace the original proof of origin by one or more EUR.1 movement certificates for the purpose of sending all or some of those products elsewhere in the Community.
The replacement EUR.1 movement certificate(s) shall be issued by the customs office under whose control the products are placed. (b) INVOICE DECLARATION Article 116 1.
The invoice declaration may be made out: (a) by an approved Community exporter within the meaning of Article 117, or (b) by any exporter for any consignment consisting of one or more packages containing originating products whose total value does not exceed EUR 6000, and on condition that the assistance referred to in Article 110(1) shall apply to this procedure. 2.
An invoice declaration may be made out if the products concerned can be considered as originating in the Community or in a beneficiary republic and fulfil the other requirements of this section. 3.
An invoice declaration shall be made out by the exporter by typing, stamping or printing on the invoice, the delivery note or any other commercial document, the declaration, the text of which appears in Annex 22, using one of the linguistic versions set out in that Annex and in accordance with the provisions of the domestic law of the exporting country.
However, an approved exporter within the meaning of Article 117 shall not be required to sign such declarations provided that he gives the customs authorities a written undertaking that he accepts full responsibility for any invoice declaration which identifies him as if it had been signed in manuscript by him. 6.
In the cases referred to in paragraph 1(b), the use of an invoice declaration shall be subject to the following special conditions: (a) an invoice declaration shall be made out for each consignment; (b) if the goods contained in the consignment have already been subject to verification in the exporting country by reference to the definition of 'originating products', the exporter may refer to this check in the invoice declaration.
The customs authorities shall assign the approved exporter a customs authorisation number which shall appear on the invoice declaration. 4.
The customs authorities shall monitor the use of the authorisation by the approved exporter. 5.
The customs authorities may withdraw the authorisation at any time.
A proof of origin shall be valid for four months from the date of issue in the exporting country, and shall be submitted within the said period to the customs authorities of the importing country. 2.
Proofs of origin which are submitted to the customs authorities of the importing country after the final date for presentation specified in paragraph 1 may be accepted for the purpose of applying the tariff preferences referred to in Article 98, where the failure to submit these documents by the final date set is due to exceptional circumstances. 3.
This procedure shall be applicable for the quantities and a period determined by the competent customs authorities.
Products sent as small packages from private person to private persons or forming part of travellers' personal luggage shall be admitted as originating products benefiting from the tariff preferences referred to in Article 98 without requiring the submission of an EUR.1 movement certificate or an invoice declaration, provided that such products are not imported by way of trade and have been declared as meeting the conditions required for the application of this section, and where there is no doubt as to the veracity of such a declaration. 2.
Furthermore, the total value of the products shall not exceed EUR 500 in the case of small packages or EUR 1200 in the case of products forming part of traveller's personal luggage.
Article 120 The discovery of slight discrepancies between the statements made in the proof of origin and those made in the documents submitted to the customs office for the purpose of carrying out the formalities for importing the products shall not ipso facto render the proof of origin null and void if it is duly established that that document does correspond to the products submitted.
Subsection 3 Methods of administrative cooperation Article 121 1.
This information is for official use; however, when goods are to be released for free circulation, the customs authorities in question may allow the importer or his duly-authorised representative to consult the specimen impressions of stamps mentioned in this paragraph. 2.
The Commission shall send, to the beneficiary republics, the specimen impressions of the stamps used by the customs authorities of the Member States for the issue of EUR.1 movement certificates.
Subsequent verifications of EUR.1 movement certificates and of invoice declarations shall be carried out at random or whenever the customs authorities in the importing Member State or the competent governmental authorities of the beneficiary republics have reasonable doubts as to the authenticity of such documents, the originating status of the products concerned or the fulfilment of the other requirements of this section. 2.
When an application for subsequent verification has been made in accordance with paragraph 1, such verification shall be carried out and its results communicated to the customs authorities of the importing Member States or to the competent governmental authorities of the importing beneficiary republic within a maximum of six months.
The results shall be such as to establish whether the proof of origin in question applies to the products actually exported and whether these products can be considered as originating in the beneficiary republic or in the Community. 4.
Subsection 4 Ceuta and Melilla Article 123 1.
The term 'Community' used in this section shall not cover Ceuta and Melilla.
The term 'products originating in the Community' does not cover products originating in Ceuta and Melilla. 2.
This section shall apply mutatis mutandis in determining whether products may be regarded as originating in the exporting beneficiary republics benefiting from the preferences when imported into Ceuta and Melilla or as originating in Ceuta and Melilla. 3.
The provisions of this section concerning the issue, use and subsequent verification of EUR.1 movement certificates shall apply mutatis mutandis to products originating in Ceuta and Melilla. 5.
The granting of a favourable tariff treatment in accordance with Article 21 of the Code shall, where it is provided that goods are subject to end-use customs supervisions, be subject to a written authorisation.
Where goods are released for free circulation at a reduced or zero rate of duty on account of their end-use and the provisions in force require that the goods remain under customs supervision in accordance with Article 82 of the Code, a written authorisation for the purposes of end-use customs supervisions shall be necessary. 2.
Applications shall be made in writing using the model set out in Annex 67.
The customs authorities may permit renewal or modification to be applied for by simple written request. 3.
In particular circumstances the customs authorities may allow the declaration for free circulation in writing or by means of a data-processing technique using the normal procedure to constitute an application for authorisation, provided that: - the application only invoices one customs administration, - the applicant wholly assigns the goods to the prescribed end-use, and - the proper conduct of operations is safeguarded. 4.
The customs authorities issuing the authorisation shall send a copy to all customs authorities concerned. 6.
An authorisation using the model set out in Annex 67 shall be granted to persons established in the customs territory of the Community, provided that the following conditions are met: (a) the activities envisaged are consistent with the prescribed end-use and with the provisions for the transfer of goods in accordance with Article 296 and the proper conduct of operations is ensured; (b) the applicant offers every guarantee necessary for the proper conduct of operations to be carried out and will undertake the obligations: - to whole or partly assign the goods to the prescribed end-use or to transfer them and to provide evidence of their assignment or transfer in accordance with the provisions in force, - not to take actions incompatible with the intended purpose of the prescribed end-use, - to notify all factors which may affect the authorisation to the competent customs authorities; (c) efficient customs supervision is ensured and the administrative arrangements to be taken by the customs authorities are not disproportionate to the economic needs involved; (d) adequate records are kept and retained; (e) security is provided where the customs authorities consider this necessary. 2.
The authorisation shall include the following items, unless such information is deemed unnecessary: (a) identification of the authorisation holder; (b) where necessary Combined Nomenclature or TARIC code, type and description of the goods and of the end-use operations and provisions concerning rates of yield; (c) means and methods of identification and of customs supervision; (d) the period within which the goods have to be assigned to the prescribed end-use; (e) the customs offices where the goods are declared for free circulation and the offices to supervise the arrangements; (f) the places where the goods have to be assigned to the prescribed end-use; (g) the security to be provided, where appropriate; (h) the period of validity of the authorisation; (i) where applicable, the possibility of transfer of the goods in accordance with Article 296(1); (j) where applicable, the simplified arrangements for the transfer of goods under Article 296(2), second subparagraph, and (3); (k) where applicable, simplified procedures authorised in accordance with Article 76 of the Code; (l) methods of communication. 4.
Article 295 The expiry of an authorisation shall not affect goods which were in free circulation by virtue of that authorisation before it expired.
Where a transfer of goods is carried out between two authorisation holders established in different Member States and the customs authorities concerned have not agreed simplified procedures in accordance with paragraph 3, the T5 control copy provided for in Annex 63 shall be used in accordance with the following procedure: (a) the transferor shall complete the T5 control copy in triplicate (one original and two copies).
The copies shall be numbered in an appropriate manner; (b) the T5 control copy shall include: - in box A ('Office of departure'), the address of the competent customs office specified in the transferor's authorisation, - in box 2, the name or trading name, full address and authorisation number of the transferor, - in box 8, the name or trading name, full address and authorisation number of the transferee, - in the box 'Important note' and in box B the text shall be crossed out, - in boxes 31 and 33, respectively, the description of the goods as at the time in transfer, including the number of items, and the relevant CN code, - in box 38, the net mass of the goods, - in box 103, the net quantity of the goods in words - in box 104, a tick in the box 'Other (specify)', and in block capitals one of the following: - DESTINO ESPECIAL: MERCANCÍAS RESPECTO DE LAS CUALES, LAS OBLIGACIONES SE CEDEN AL CESIONARIO (REGLAMENTO (CEE) No 2454/93, ARTÍCULO 296) - SÆRLIGT ANVENDELSESFORMÅL: VARER, FOR HVILKE FORPLIGTELSERNE OVERDRAGES TIL ERHVERVEREN (FORORDNING (EØF) Nr. 2454/93, ARTIKEL 296) - BESONDERE VERWENDUNG: WAREN MIT DENEN DIE PFLICHTEN AUF DEN ÜBERNEHMER ÜBERTRAGEN WERDEN (ARTIKEL 296 DER VERORDNUNG (EWG) Nr. 2454/93) - ΕΙΔΙΚΟΣ ΠΡΟΟΡΙΣΜΟΣ: ΕΜΠΟΡΕΓΜΑΤΑ ΓΙΑ ΤΑ ΟΠΟΙΑ ΟΙ ΥΠΟΧΡΕΩΣΕΙΣ ΕΚΧΩΡΟΥΝΤΑΙ ΣΤΟΝ ΕΚΔΟΧΕΑ (ΑΡΘΡΟ 296 ΚΑΝΟΝΙΣΜΟΣ (ΕΟΚ) αριθ. 2454/93) - END-USE: GOODS FOR WHICH THE OBLIGATIONS ARE TRANSFERRED TO THE TRANSFEREE (REGULATION (EEC) No 2454/93, ARTICLE 296) - DESTINATION PARTICULIÈRE: MARCHANDISES POUR LESQUELLES LES OBLIGATIONS SONT TRANSFÉRÉES AU CESSIONNAIRE [RÈGLEMENT (CEE) No 2454/93, ARTICLE 296] - DESTINAZIONE PARTICOLARE: MERCI PER LE QUALI GLI OBBLIGHI SONO TRASFERITI AL CESSIONARIO (REGOLAMENTO (CEE) N. 2454/93, ARTICOLO 296) - BIJZONDERE BESTEMMING: GOEDEREN WAARVOOR DE VERPLICHTINGEN AAN DE OVERNEMER WORDEN OVERGEDRAGEN (VERORDENING (EEG) Nr. 2454/93, ARTIKEL 296) - DESTINO ESPECIAL: MERCADORIAS RELATIVAMENTE ÀS QUAIS AS OBRIGAÇÕES SÃO TRANSFERIDAS PARA O CESSIONÁRIO [REGULAMENTO (CEE) N.o 2454/93, ARTIGO 296.o] - TIETTY KÄYTTÖTARKOITUS: TAVARAT, JOIHIN LIITTYVÄT VELVOITTEET SIIRRETÄÄN SIIRRONSAAJALLE (ASETUS (ETY) N:o 2454/93, 296 ARTIKLA) - ANVÄNDNING FÖR SÄRSKILDA ÄNDAMÅL: VAROR FÖR VILKA SKYLDIGHETERNA ÖVERFÖRS TILL DEN MOTTAGANDE PARTEN (ARTIKEL 296 I FÖRORDNING (EEG) nr 2454/93) - in box 106: - the taxation elements of the import goods, - the registered number and date of the declaration for release for free circulation and the name and address of the customs office where the declaration was made; (c) the transferor shall send the complete set of T5 control copies to the transferee; (d) the transferee shall attach the original of the commercial document showing the date of receipt of the goods to the set of T5 control copies and submit all documents to the customs office determined in his authorisation.
He shall also immediately notify this customs office of any excess, shortfall, substitution or other irregularity; (e) the customs office specified in the transferee's authorisation shall fill in box J, including the date of receipt by the transferee, in the original T5 after having verified the corresponding commercial documents and date and stamp the original in box J and the two copies in box E.
The customs authorities concerned may agree simplified procedures in accordance with the provisions for the use of the T5 control copy. 3.
Where the customs authorities concerned consider that the proper conduct of operations is safeguarded, they may agree a transfer of goods between two authorisation holders established in two different Member States to be made without using the T5 control copy. 4.
The air waybill or equivalent document must bear on its face one of the following indications in block capitals: - DESTINO ESPECIAL - SÆRLIGT ANVENDELSESFORMÅL - BESONDERE VERWENDUNG - ΕΙΔΙΚΟΣ ΠΡΟΟΡΙΣΜΟΣ - END-USE - DESTINATION PARTICULIÈRE - DESTINAZIONE PARTICOLARE - BIJZONDERE BESTEMMING - DESTINO ESPECIAL - TIETTY KÄYTTÖTARKOITUS - ANVÄNDNING FÖR SÄRSKILDA ÄNDAMÅL 4.
The receiving airline shall retain a copy of the air waybill or equivalent document as part of its records and shall, in the manner prescribed by the customs authorities of the Member State of destination, make a further copy available to the competent customs office. 5.
The receiving airline shall enter the materials in its records. 6.
Where agricultural products are exported, box 44 of the Single Administrative Document or any other document used shall bear one of the following indications in block capitals: - ARTÍCULO 298, REGLAMENTO (CEE) N° 2454/93, DESTINO ESPECIAL: MERCANCÍAS DESTINADAS A LA EXPORTACIÓN - NO SE APLICAN RESTITUCIONES AGRÍCOLAS - ART. 298 I FORORDNING (EØF) Nr. 2454/93 SÆRLIGT ANVENDELSESFORMÅL: VARER BESTEMT TIL UDFØRSEL - INGEN RESTITUTION - ARTIKEL 298 DER VERORDNUNG (EWG) Nr. 2454/93 BESONDERE VERWENDUNG: ZUR AUSFUHR VORGESEHENE WAREN - ANWENDUNG DER LANDWIRTSCHAFTLICHEN AUSFUHRERSTATTUNGEN AUSGESCHLOSSEN - ΑΡΘΡΟ 298 ΤΟΥ ΚΑΝ. (CEE) αριθ. 2454/93 ΕΙΔΙΚΟΣ ΠΡΟΟΡΙΣΜΟΣ: ΕΜΠΟΡΕΓΜΑΤΑ ΠΡΟΟΡΙΖΟΜΕΝΑ ΓΙΑ ΕΞΑΓΩΓΗ - ΑΠΟΚΛΕΙΟΝΤΑΙ ΟΙ ΓΕΩΡΓΙΚΕΣ ΕΠΙΣΤΡΟΦΕΣ - ARTICLE 298 REGULATION (EEC) No 2454/93 END-USE: GOODS DESTINED FOR EXPORTATION - AGRICULTURAL REFUNDS NOT APPLICABLE - ARTICLE 298, RÈGLEMENT (CEE) N° 2454/93 DESTINATION PARTICULIÈRE: MARCHANDISES PRÉVUES POUR L'EXPORTATION - APPLICATION DES RESTITUTIONS AGRICOLES EXCLUE - ARTICOLO 298 (CEE) N° 2454/93 DESTINAZIONE PARTICOLARE: MERCI PREVISTE PER L'ESPORTAZIONE - APPLICAZIONE DELLE RESTITUZIONI AGRICOLE ESCLUSA - ARTIKEL 298, VERORDENING (EEG) Nr. 2454/93 BIJZONDERE BESTEMMING: VOOR UITVOER BESTEMDE GOEDEREN - LANDBOUWRESTITUTIES NIET VAN TOEPASSING - ARTIGO 298.o REG. (CEE) N.o 2454/93 DESTINO ESPECIAL: MERCADORIAS DESTINADAS À EXPORTAÇÃO - APLICAÇÃO DE RESTITUIÇÕES AGRÍCOLAS EXCLUÍDA - 298 ART., AS. 2454/93 TIETTY KÄYTTÖTARKOITUS: VIETÄVIKSI TARKOITETTUJA TAVAROITA - MAATALOUSTUKEA EI SOVELLETA - ARTIKEL 298 I FÖRORDNING (EEG) nr 2454/93 AVSEENDE ANVÄNDNING FÖR SÄRSKILDA ÄNDAMÅL: VAROR AVSEDDA FÖR EXPORT - JORDBRUKSBIDRAG EJ TILLÄMPLIGA 3.
Article 299 Where the customs authorities agree that the use of the goods otherwise than as provided for in the authorisation is justified, such use, other than export or destruction, shall entail the incurrence of a customs debt.
Article 208 of the Code shall apply mutatis mutandis.
Where the goods are placed under a Community transit procedure, the principal shall enter on the document used for the Community transit declaration, specifically in box 44 ('Additonal information') of the Single Administrative Document where that is used, one of the following phrases: - Salida de la Comunidad sometida a restricciones o imposiciones en virtud del (de la) Reglamento/Directiva/Decisión no ... - Udpassage fra Fællesskabet undergivet restriktioner eller afgifter i henhold til forordning/direktiv/afgørelse nr. ... - Ausgang aus der Gemeinschaft - gemäß Verordnung/Richtlinie/Beschluß Nr. ...
In the case of goods falling within point (b) of the first subparagraph, the T5 control copy shall be presented with the goods at the competent customs office for the place where the goods leave the customs territory of the Community.
Those offices shall specify the latest date by which the goods, must be presented at the customs office of destination and, where appropriate, shall enter in the customs document under cover of which the goods are to be transported the phrase specified in paragraph 2.
For the purposes of the T5 control copy, the office of destination shall be either the office of destination for the customs procedure under point (a) of the first subparagraph or, where point (b) of the first subparagraph applies, the competent customs office for the place where the goods are brought back into the customs territory of the Community. 4.
Paragraph 3 shall also apply to goods moving from one point in the customs territory of the Community to another through the territory of one or more of the EFTA countries referred to in Article 309(f) which are reconsigned from one of those countries. 5.
In the circumstances described in paragraph 3, the office of destination shall return the original of the T5 control copy without delay to the address shown in box B 'Return to ...' of the T5 form once all the required formalities have been completed and annotations made. 8.
Where application of Community rules concerning goods imported into, exported from, or moving within the customs territory of the Community is subject to proof of compliance with the conditions prescribed by that measure for the use and/or destination of the goods, such proof shall be furnished by production of a T5 control copy, completed and used in accordance with the provisions of this part. 3.
All goods entered on a given T5 control copy shall be loaded on a single means of transport within the meaning of the second subparagraph of Article 347(2), intended for a single consignee and the same use and/or destination.
The competent authorities may allow the form corresponding to the specimen in Annex 65 to be replaced by T5 loading lists made out by an integrated electronic or automatic data-processing system or by descriptive lists drawn up for the purposes of carrying out dispatch/export formalities which include all the particulars provided for in the Annex 65 specimen form, provided such lists are designed and completed in such a way that they can be used without difficulty by the authorities in question and offer all the safeguards considered appropriate by those authorities. 4.
By way of derogation from paragraph 2 and unless otherwise provided in the Community rules requiring a control on the use and/or destination of the goods, each Member State shall have the right to require that the proof of goods having been assigned to the use and/or destination provided for or prescribed shall be furnished in accordance with a national procedure, provided that the goods do not leave its territory before they have been assigned to that use and/or destination.
Article 912b 1.
Each of their forms must bear the original signature of the person concerned and include all the particulars regarding the description of goods and any additional information required by the provisions relating to the Community rules imposing the control. 2.
Where the Community rules imposing the control provide for the lodging of a guarantee, it shall be lodged: - at the agency designated by those rules or, failing that, at either the office which issues the T5 control copy or another office designated for that purpose by the Member State to which that office belongs, and - in that manner laid down in those rules or, failing that, by the authorities of that Member State.
In that case, one of the following phrases shall be entered in box 106 of the T5 form: - Garantía constituida por un importe de ...
days for completion' in box 104 of the T5 form shall be completed. 4.
Similarly, box 109 of the T5 form issued shall contain a reference to the document used for the procedure. 5.
Where the goods are not placed under a customs procedure, the T5 control copy shall be issued by the office where the goods are dispatched.
One of the following phrases shall be entered in box 109 of the T5 form: - Mercancías no incluidas en un régimen aduanero - Ingen forsendelsesprocedure - Nicht in einem Zollverfahren befindliche Waren - Εμπορεύματα εκτός τελωνειακού καθεστώτος - Goods not covered by a customs procedure - Marchandises hors régime douanier - Merci non vincolate ad un regime doganale - Geen douaneregeling - Mercadorias não sujeitas a regime aduaneiro - Tullimenettelyn ulkopuolella olevat tavarat - Varorna omfattas inte av något tullförfarande. 6.
The T5 control copy shall be endorsed by the office referred to in paragraphs 4 and 5.
Unless otherwise provided in the Community rules requiring a control on the use and/or destination of the goods, Article 349 shall apply mutatis mutandis.
The office referred to in paragraphs 4 and 5 shall verify the consignment and shall complete and endorse box D, 'Control by office of departure', on the front of the T5 form. 8.
The office referred to in paragraphs 4 and 5 shall keep a copy of each T5 control copy.
Articles 353, 354 and 355 shall apply mutatis mutandis.
Article 912c 1.
Any person who presents a T5 control copy and the consignment to which it relates to the office of destination may, on request, obtain a receipt made out on a form corresponding to the specimen in Annex 47.
Where the Community rules require a control on the exit of goods from the customs territory of the Community: - for goods leaving by sea, the office of destination shall be the office responsible for the port where the goods are loaded on the vessel operating a service other than a regular shipping service within the meaning of Article 313a, - for goods leaving by air, the office of destination shall be the office responsible for the international Community airport, within the meaning of Article 190(b), at which the goods are loaded on an aircraft bound for an airport outside the Community, - for goods leaving by any other way or in any other circumstances, the office of destination shall be the office of exit referred to in Article 793(2). 3.
The office of destination shall return the original of the T5 control copy to the address shown in box B ('Return to ...') of the T5 form once all the required formalities have been completed and annotations made.
Article 912d 1.
Where quantities of goods have not been assigned to the prescribed use and/or destination, by the expiry of a specified time limit under Article 912b(3) where applicable, the competent authorities shall take the necessary steps to enable the office referred to in Article 912b(2) to recover, where applicable from the guarantee lodged, the proportion corresponding to those quantities.
However, at the request of the person concerned, those authorities may decide to collect, where applicable from the guarantee, an amount obtained by taking the proportion of the guarantee corresponding to the amount of goods not assigned to the specified use and/or destination by the end of the prescribed time limit, and multiplying that by the quotient obtained from dividing the number of days over the time limit required for those quantities to be assigned their use and/or destination by the length, in days, of the timelimit.
This paragraph shall not apply where the delay in returning the T5 control copy was not attributable to the person concerned. 4.
Article 912e 1.
Each extract shall contain, inter alia, the additional information shown in boxes 100, 104, 105, 106 and 107 of the initial T5 control copy, and shall state the net mass and net quantity of the goods to which that extract applies.
One of the following phrases shall be entered in box 106 of the T5 form used for each extract: - Extracto del ejemplar de control T5 inicial (número de registro, fecha, oficina y país de expedición): ... - Udskrift af det oprindelige kontroleksemplar T5 (registreringsnummer, dato, sted og udstedelsesland): ... - Auszug aus dem ursprünglichen Kontrollexemplar T5 (Registriernummer, Datum, ausstellende Stelle und Ausstellungsland): ... - Απόσπασμα του αρχικού αντιτύπου ελέγχου Τ5 (αριθμός πρωτοκόλλου, ημερομηνία, τελωνείο και χώρα έκδοσης): ... - Extract of the initial T5 control copy (registration number, date, office and country of issue): ... - Extrait de l'exemplaire de contrôle T5 initial (numéro d'enregistrement, date, bureau et pays de délivrance): ... - Estratto dell'esemplare di controllo T5 originale (numero di registrazione, data, ufficio e paese di emissione): ... - Uittreksel van het oorspronkelijke controle-exemplaar T5 (registratienummer, datum, kantoor en land van afgifte): ... - Extracto do exemplar de controlo T5 inicial (número de registo, data, estância e país de emissão): ... - Ote alun perin annetusta T5-valvontakappaleesta (kirjaamisnumero, antamispäivämäärä, -toimipaikka ja -maa): ... - Utdrag ur ursprungligt kontrollexemplar T5 (registreringsnummer, datum, utfärdande kontor och land): ....
One of the following phrases shall be entered in box J 'Controls on the use and/or destination' of the initial T5 form: - ... (número) extractos expedidos - copias adjuntas - ... (antal) udstedte udskrifter - kopier vedføjet - ... (Anzahl) Auszüge ausgestellt - Durchschriften liegen bei - ... (αριθμός) εκδοθέντα αποσπάσματα - συνημμένα αντίγραφα - ... (number) extracts issued - copies attached - ... (nombre) extraits délivrés - copies ci-jointes - ... (numero) estratti rilasciati - copie allegate - ... (aantal) uittreksels afgegeven - kopieën bijgevoegd - ... (número) de extractos emitidos - cópias juntas - Annettu ... (lukumäärä) otetta - jäljennökset liitteenä - ... (antal) utdrag utfärdade - kopier bifogas.
The initial T5 control copy shall be returned without delay to the address shown in box B 'Return to ...' of the T5 form, accompanied by copies of the extracts issued.
Article 912f 1.
The T5 control copy may be issued retrospectively on condition that: - the person concerned is not responsible for the failure to apply for or to issue that document when the goods were dispatched or he can furnish proof that the failure is not due to any deception or obvious negligence on his part, - the person concerned furnishes proof that the T5 control copy relates to goods in respect of which all the formalities have been completed, - the person concerned produces the documents required for the issue of the said T5 control copy, - it is established to the satisfaction of the competent authorities that the retrospective issue of the T5 control copy cannot give rise to the securing of financial benefits which would not be warranted in the light of the procedure used, the customs status of the goods and their use and/or destination.
Where the T5 control copy is issued retrospectively, the T5 form shall contain in red one of the following phrases: - Expedido a posteriori - Udstedt efterfølgende - nachträglich ausgestellt - Εκδοθέν εκ των υστέρων - Issued retrospectively - Délivré a posteriori - Rilasciato a posteriori - achteraf afgegeven - Emitido a posteriori - Annettu jälkikäteen - Utfärdat i efterhand and the person concerned shall enter on it the identity of the means of transport by which the goods were dispatched, the date of departure and, if appropriate, the date on which the goods were produced at the office of destination. 2.
The duplicate shall bear the stamp of the office and the signature of the competent official and in red block letters, one of the following words: - DUPLICADO - DUPLIKAT - DUPLIKAT - ΑΝΤΙΓΡΑΦΟ - DUPLICATE - DUPLICATA - DUPLICATO - DUPLICAAT - SEGUNDA VIA - KAKSOISKAPPALE - DUPLIKAT. 3.
T5 control copies issued retrospectively and duplicates may be annotated by the office of destination only where that office establishes that the goods covered by the document in question have been assigned to the use and/or destination provided for or prescribed by the Community rules.
Article 912g 1.
The competent authorities of each Member State may, within the scope of their competence, authorise any person who fulfils the conditions laid down in paragraph 4 and who intends to consign goods in respect of which a T5 control copy must be made out (hereinafter referred as 'the authorised consignor' not to present at the office of departure either the goods concerned or the T5 control copy covering them. 2.
In this event, the space reserved for the signature of the declarant in box 110 of the forms shall contain one of the following phrases: - Dispensa de la firma, artículo 912 octavo del Reglamento (CEE) no 2454/93 - Underskriftsdispensation, artikel 912g i forordning (EØF) nr. 2454/93 - Freistellung von der Unterschriftsleistung, Artikel 912g der Verordnung (EWG) Nr. 2454/93 - Απαλλαγή από την υποχρέωση υπογραφής, άρθρο 912 ζ του κανονισμού (ΕΟΚ) αριθ. 2454/93 - Signature waived - Article 912g of Regulation (EEC) No 2454/93 - Dispense de signature, article 912 octies du règlement (CEE) no 2454/93 - Dispensa dalla firma, articolo 912 octies del regolamento (CEE) n. 2454/93 - Vrijstelling van ondertekening - artikel 912 octies van Verordening (EEG) nr. 2454/93 - Dispensada a assinatura, artigo 912o - G do Regulamento (CE) n. 2454/93 - Vapautettu allekirjoituksesta - asetuksen (ETY) N:o 2454/93 912g artikla - Befriad från underskrift, artikel 912g i förordning (EEG) nr 2454/93. 3.
The authorised consignor shall complete the T5 control copy, entering the required particulars, including: - in box A ('Office of departure') the date on which the goods were consigned and the number allocated to the declaration, and - in box D ('Control by office of departure)' of the T5 form one of the endorsements: - Procedimiento simplificado, artículo 912 octavo del Reglamento (CEE) no 2454/93 - Forenklet fremgangsmåde, artikel 912g i forordning (EØF) nr. 2454/93 - Vereinfachtes Verfahren, Artikel 912g der Verordnung (EWG) Nr. 2454/93 - Απλουστευμένη διαδικασία, άρθρο 912 ζ) του κανονισμού (ΕΟΚ) αριθ. 2454/93 - Simplified procedure - Article 912g of Regulation (EEC) No 2454/93 - Procédure simplifiée, article 912 octies du règlement (CEE) no 2454/93 - Procedura semplificata, articolo 912 octies del regolamento (CEE) n. 2454/93 - Vereenvoudigde procedure, artikel 912 octies van Verordening (EEG) nr. 2454/93 - Procedimento simplificado, artigo 912.o - G do Regulamento (CE) n° 2454/93 - Yksinkertaistettu menettely - asetuksen (ETY) N:o 2454/93 912g artikla - Förenklat förfarande, artikel 912g i förordning (EEG) nr 2454/93 and, where appropriate, particulars of the period within which the goods must be presented at the office of destination, the identification measures applied and references to the dispatch document.
The authorisation shall specify in particular: - the office or offices competent to act as offices of departure for consignments, - the period within which, and the procedure by which, the authorised consignor is to inform the office of departure of the consignment to be sent, in order that the office may carry out any controls, including any required by Community rules, before the departure of the goods, - the period within which the goods must be presented at the office of destination; this period shall be determined according to the conditions of transport or by Community rules, - the measures to be taken to identify the goods, which may include the use of special seals approved by the competent authorities and affixed by the authorised consignor, - the means for providing guarantees where the issue of the T5 control copy is conditional thereon. 5.
Points 4 and 14 of Article 1 shall apply from 1 July 2000.
Points 1, 2, 3, 7, 13 and 20 of Article 1 shall apply from 1 January 2001.
Done at Brussels, 24 July 2000.
For the Commission Frederik Bolkestein Member of the Commission (1) OJ L 302, 19.10.1992, p. 1. (2) OJ L 119, 7.5.1999, p. 1. (3) OJ L 253, 11.10.1993, p. 1. (4) OJ L 197, 29.7.1999, p. 25. (5) OJ L 211, 11.8.1999, p. 1. (6) OJ L 2, 5.1.2000, p. 1. (7) OJ L 205, 3.8.1985, p. 5. (8) OJ L 240, 10.9.1999, p. 11. (9) With entry into force on 1.9.1999. (10) With entry into force on 1.7.2000. (11) The Commission shall publish, in the Official Journal of the European Communities (C series) the date on which these countries fulfilled the obligations laid down in Article 72b.
Example: An engine of heading No 8407, for which the rule states that the value of the non-originating materials which may be incorporated may not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price, is made from %quot%other alloy steel roughly shaped by forging%quot% of the heading No ex 7224.
The forging can then count as originating in the value-calculation for the engine, regardless of whether it was produced in the same factory or in another factory in the beneficiary country or republic.
The following are the basic textile materials: - silk, - wool, - coarse animal hair, - fine animal hair, - horsehair, - cotton, - paper-making materials and paper, - flax, - true hemp, - jute and other textile bast fibres, - sisal and other textile fibres of the genus Agave, - coconut, abaca, ramie and other vegetable textile fibres, - synthetic man-made filaments, - artificial man-made filaments, - current-conducting filaments, - synthetic man-made staple fibres of polypropylene, - synthetic man-made staple fibres of polyester, - synthetic man-made staple fibres of polyamide, - synthetic man-made staple fibres of polyarcylonitrile, - synthetic man-made staple fibres of polyimide, - synthetic man-made staple fibres of polytetrafluoroethylene, - synthetic man-made staple fibres of polyphenylene sulphide, - synthetic man-made staple fibres of polyvinyl chloride, - other synthetic man-made staple fibres, - artificial man-made staple fibres of viscose, - other artificial man-made staple fibres, - yarn made of polyurethane segmented with flexible segments of polyether, whether or not gimped, - yarn made of polyurethane segmented with flexible segments of polyester, whether or not gimped, - products of heading of 5605 (metallised yarn) incorporating strip consisting of a core of aluminium foil or of a core of plastic film whether or not coated with aluminium powder, of a width not exceeding 5 mm, sandwiched by means of a transparent or coloured adhesive between two layers of plastic film, - other products of heading No 5605.
Example: A yarn, of heading No 5205, made from cotton fibres of heading No 5203 and synthetic staple fibres of heading No 5506, is a mixed yarn.
Therefore, non-originating synthetic staple fibres which do not satisfy the origin-rules (which require manufacture from chemical materials or textile pulp) may be used up to a weight of 10 % of the yarn.
Example: A woollen fabric, of heading No 5112, made from woollen yarn of heading No 5107 and synthetic yarn of staple fibres of heading No 5509, is a mixed fabric.
Example: Tufted textile fabric, of heading No 5802, made from cotton yarn of heading No 5205 and cotton fabric of heading No 5210, is a only mixed product if the cotton fabric is itself a mixed fabric made from yarns classified in two separate headings, or if the cotton yarns used are themselves mixtures.
Example: If a rule in the list provides that, for a particular textile item (such as trousers), yarn must be used, this does not prevent the use of metal items, such as buttons, because buttons are not classified within Chapters 50 to 63.
Delete: Heading %quot%1.70 Brussels sprouts, 1.120 Endives, 1.250 Fennel%quot% 2.
Heading 2.85 %quot%Limes (Citrus aurantifolia), fresh%quot% is replaced by: %quot%Limes (Citrus aurantifolia, Citrus latifolia), fresh%quot% 3.
Heading 2.140.1: %quot%Pears - Nashi (Pyrus pyrifolia)%quot% is replaced by %quot%Pears - Nashi (Pyrus pyrifolia), Ya (Pyrus Bretscheideri)%quot%. 4.
The CN codes are replaced as follows: %gt%TABLE%gt% ANNEX V %quot%ANNEX 27 MARKETING CENTRES FOR THE PURPOSE OF CALCULATING UNIT PRICES BY CLASSIFICATION HEADING %gt%TABLE%gt%%quot% ANNEX VI %quot%ANNEX 63 %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2000188EN.012502.EPS%quot%%gt% %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2000188EN.012601.EPS%quot%%gt%%quot% ANNEX VII %quot%ANNEX 66 INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE OF THE FORMS REQUIRED TO DRAW UP CONTROL COPY T5 A.
General remarks 1.
The T5 control copy is a document drawn up on a T5 form accompanied, where appropriate, either by one or more T5bis forms or by one or more T5 loading lists. 2.
The T5 control copy is intended to supply proof that the goods in respect of which it was issued have either been used in the way, or have reached the destination provided for by the specific Community provisions governing their use, it being the responsibility of the competent office of destination to be satisfied either directly or through persons acting on its behalf as to the use and/or destination of the goods concerned.
The words %quot%Goods not covered by a customs procedure%quot% shall be entered in box 109 of the T5 form.
A T5 form may not be accompanied both by T5bis and by T5 loading lists. 6.
The forms must be printed on pale blue paper, dressed for writing purposes and weighing at least 40 g/m2.
The forms must measure 210 × 297 mm for T5 forms and T5bis and 297 × 420 mm for T5 loading lists, a tolerance in the length of between -5 and +8 mm being allowed.
T5 forms and any T5bis forms or T5 loading lists must be completed in typescript or by a mechanographical or similar process.
BOX 5: ITEMS Enter in figures the total number of items declared by the person concerned on the T5 forms and on all T5bis forms or T5 loading lists used.
BOX 6: TOTAL PACKAGES Enter the total number of packages making up the consignment in question.
BOX 7: REFERENCE NUMBER Optional item for users to indicate any reference number allocated by the person concerned to the consignment in question.
BOX 19: CONTAINER (Ctr) Using the appropriate Community codes (%quot%0%quot% - Goods not transported in containers or %quot%1%quot% - Goods transported in containers), indicate the situation at departure.
BOX 31: PACKAGES AND DESCRIPTION OF GOODS - MARKS AND NUMBERS - CONTAINER No(s) - NUMBER AND KIND Enter the marks, numbers, number and kind of packages or, in the case of unpackaged goods, the number of goods covered by the declaration, or the work %quot%bulk%quot%, as appropriate, together with the particulars necessary to identify the goods.
BOX 32: ITEM NUMBER Enter the number of the item in question in relation to the total number of articles declared in the T5 and T5bis forms used, as described in the note to box 5.
BOX 103: NET QUANTITY (kg, litres or other units) IN WORDS To be completed in accordance with Community rules.
BOX 105: LICENCES To be completed in accordance with Community rules.
BOX 106: FURTHER PARTICULARS To be completed in accordance with Community rules and the rules on the application of Article 912(b)(9).
Provisions relating to use of T5bis forms See notes in Section B.
The goods shown on the T5 loading list must be serially numbered in the column headed %quot%item number%quot% (see item number, box 32) in such a way that the last of these is the total given in box 5 of the T5 form.
The particulars normally entered in boxes 31, 33, 35, 38, 100, 103 and 105 of the form T5 must be entered on the T5 loading list.
Particulars relating to boxes 100 (national use) and 105 (licences) must be entered in the column for the description of the goods, immediately after the information concerning the goods to which those particulars refer.
Subject to any specific provisions adopted with regard to the use of computerised systems, the original signature of the signatory of the corresponding T5 form must appear both on the original and on the copy or copies of the T5 loading list.%quot% ANNEX VIII In Annex 87, order No 14 is replaced by the following: %quot%%gt%TABLE%gt%%quot%
