PRODUCT CONCERNED AND LIKE PRODUCT (7) As outlined in recital 8 of the provisional Regulation, the product concerned is solutions of UAN, a liquid nitrogen fertiliser used in agriculture.
Whatever their nitrogen content, all solutions of UAN are considered to have the same basic physical and chemical characteristics and therefore constitute a single product for the purpose of this investigation. (8) In view of the above and since no new arguments were put forward by any of the parties concerned with respect to the Commission's provisional findings on the product concerned and the considerations made on the like product, the facts and findings as set out in recitals 8 and 9 of the provisional Regulation are confirmed.
Algeria (a) Normal value (9) The cooperating exporting producer claimed that its cost of production had been miscalculated because the Commission had not taken into account the fact that no import duty was paid on imported raw materials used in manufacturing the product concerned for export.
Lithuania (a) Normal value (13) The Lithuanian producer objected to the Commission's provisional findings, claiming that its normal value, which had been constructed in the absence of domestic sales of the product concerned, was too high and had resulted in an excessive dumping margin (7,6 %).
In particular, it claimed that its selling, general and administrative (SG %amp% A) expenses had been overstated and that these same expenses had been taken from a different set of accounts (the audited accounts for 1998) to that used for calculating the manufacturing cost (internal management accounts covering the investigation period, June 1998 to May 1999), thereby distorting the results. (14) Since it was found that there were no domestic sales of the product concerned, the amounts for SG %amp% A expenses had to be determined in accordance with Article 2(6) of Regulation (EC) No 384/96 (hereafter referred to as the %quot%Basic Regulation%quot%).
In general terms, the company claimed that the revised methodology had led to a number of inconsistencies due to the fact that the accounts used for the determination of SG %amp% A expenses were incomplete or inaccurate.
A similar claim contesting the allocation of G %amp% A expenses incurred in connection with trading activities, and for which no supporting evidence was provided, was also rejected. (17) The complainant, the European Fertilisers Manufacturers' Association (EFMA), also made comments on the method of constructing normal value for the Lithuanian producer and claimed that the Commission should have made adjustments in respect of: - depreciation rates, on the grounds that those applied by the producer were too low and were not in line with those applied in Western Europe, and by the Community industry in particular, - fixed asset valuations, on the grounds that the producer's assets were not valued in accordance with international accounting standards, - the gas price, judged to be too low, charged by the Russian gas supplier, resulting in an abnormally low cost of production.
The complainant suggested that the Commission recalculate the producer's gas costs on the basis of figures obtained from a Community gas supplier showing what was considered to be the lowest reasonable price the Lithuanian producer could be expected to have paid for gas in the investigation period.
All but one of the board's members were independent from the State, - exchange rate conversions were carried out at the market rate. (22) The Commission reviewed the claim for individual treatment focusing its analysis, at this definitive stage, mainly on those areas having a direct impact on the company's export activities.
In addition, it claimed that the quantities exported had been miscalculated because returns had not been taken into account and because some of the UAN exported had a nitrogen content of 30 % instead of the more usual 32 %.
As regards the calculation of the cif value, the methodology adopted in the provisional Regulation is confirmed. (31) In the absence of any other comments concerning the determination of the dumping margin, the methodology set out in recital 31 of the provisional duty Regulation is confirmed.
DEFINITION OF THE COMMUNITY INDUSTRY (34) In the absence of any comments or new information the provisional findings as described in recitals 35 and 36 of the provisional Regulation on the definition of the Community industry are confirmed.
Furthermore, as to the conditions of competition, there was an upward trend in the volume of imports, the price behaviour of the Algerian exporting producer was comparable to that of the other exporting producers in the other countries concerned and price undercutting was found for these imports which used the same channels of trade.
For these reasons, and in accordance with Article 3(4) of the Basic Regulation, the provisional findings as described in recital 41 of the provisional Regulation are confirmed. 2.
Price undercutting (37) The exporting producer in Belarus submitted that the customs duty applicable for imports originating in Belarus was 6,8 % in 1998 and 6,5 % in 1999 while the Commission, in the calculation of the cif Community frontier value, ex-quay, duty paid, had used 6,5 % for all imports.
The cif value was recalculated accordingly, which did not, however, change the range for the undercutting margin for imports originating in Belarus mentioned in recital 46 of the provisional Regulation. (38) Since the customs duty applicable for imports originating in Russia also changed in 1999, the undercutting margin for imports originating in Russia was also accordingly recalculated.
The revised weighted average price undercutting expressed as a percentage of the Community industry's prices amounts to 6,5 %.
Otherwise, the methodology set out in recital 46 of the provisional duty Regulation is confirmed. 3.
Situation of the Community industry (39) Certain parties submitted that for the injury analysis the situation in 1995 should be compared to that in the investigation period, and not the situation in 1997 to that in the investigation period.
In the current case, the investigation covered the period between 1995 and the investigation period and not just 1995 and the investigation period as suggested by these parties.
Taking into account developments throughout this period, a marked deterioration of the situation of the Community industry has been found in particular between 1997 and the investigation period.
Therefore, in the absence of any new information, the findings as described in recitals 62 and 63 of the provisional Regulation are confirmed.
COMMUNITY INTEREST (41) In the absence of any new information the provisional findings as described in recitals 64 to 69 of the provisional Regulation are confirmed.
ANTI-DUMPING MEASURES 1.
Injury elimination level (43) For the purposes of establishing the level of definitive measures to be imposed, it is confirmed that the prices of the dumped imports should be increased to a level where injurious dumping is eliminated. (44) The complainant submitted that a profit margin of 5 % was not realistic and that a higher level of profit should be used in determining a non-injurious price level.
However, as a profit margin of 5 % has been used in previous anti-dumping cases concerning solutions of UAN and in the absence of elements pointing to a change in circumstances requiring a new evaluation, it is concluded that a margin of 5 % remains an appropriate level of profit. (45) Furthermore, the methodology used for establishing the injury margin as described in recital 70 of the provisional Regulation was confirmed. (46) The injury margin for Belarus was revised to take into account the fact that the customs duty applicable for imports originating in Belarus was 6,8 % in 1998 and 6,5 % in 1999 while, as mentioned above, the Commission, in the calculation of the cif Community frontier value, ex-quay, duty paid, used 6,5 % for all imports.
The new injury margin for imports originating in Belarus is 27,5 %. (47) Since the customs duty applicable for imports originating in Russia also changed in 1999, the injury margins for imports originating in Russia were also accordingly recalculated.
Undertakings (48) The undertaking accepted at the provisional stage from the Algerian exporting producer was revised in order to adjust the minimum import price on the basis of the definitive findings for the producer (see recitals 9 to 12 above).
For the reasons set out in recitals 15 and 19 of the provisional Regulation, it is confirmed that the residual duties for Algeria and Lithuania should be set at the level established respectively for the sole producer in each country. (50) In order to ensure the efficiency of the measures and to discourage the price manipulation which has been observed in some previous proceedings involving fertilisers, it is confirmed that the duties should be imposed in the form of a specific amount per tonne.
These duties amount to: %gt%TABLE%gt% (51) The individual company anti-dumping duty rate specified in this Regulation was established on the basis of the findings of the present investigation.
In cases where goods have been damaged before entry into free circulation and, therefore, the price actually paid or payable is apportioned for the determination of the customs value pursuant to Article 145 of Commission Regulation (EEC) No 2454/93(4), the amount of anti-dumping duty, calculated on the basis of the amounts set above, shall be reduced by a percentage which corresponds to the apportioning of the price actually paid or payable. 4.
Article 3 The amounts secured by way of provisional anti-dumping duties pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 617/2000 on imports of solutions of urea and ammonium nitrate originating in Algeria, Belarus, Lithuania, Russia and Ukraine shall be collected at the rate of the duty definitively imposed.
Article 4 This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Done at Brussels, 18 September 2000.
