They will help promote compliance with the obligations laid down in the Treaty abolishing obstacles to the free movement of persons and services between Member States. (8) The mutual recognition of diplomas and certificates provided for under the general system Directives does not always ensure a standardised level of training for all seafarers serving on board vessels flying the flag of a Member State.
Part B of the STCW Code contains recommended guidance intended to assist Parties to the STCW Convention and those involved in implementing, applying or enforcing its measures to give the Convention full and complete effect in uniform manner. (12) For the enhancement of maritime safety and pollution prevention at sea provisions on minimum rest periods for watchkeeping personnel should be established in this Directive in accordance with the STCW Convention.
Article 2 Scope This Directive shall apply to the seafarers mentioned in this Directive serving on board seagoing ships flying the flag of a Member State with the exception of: - warships, naval auxiliaries or other ships owned or operated by a Member State and engaged only on government non-commercial service, - fishing vessels, - pleasure yachts not engaged in trade, - wooden ships of primitive build.
Article 5 Certificates and endorsements 1.
Certificates shall be issued in accordance with Article 10. 2.
The form of the endorsement used shall be that set out in paragraph 32 of section A-I/2 of the STCW Code. 7.
The endorsements referred to in paragraphs 5 and 6: (a) may be issued as separate documents; (b) shall each be assigned a unique number, except that endorsements attesting the issue of a certificate may be assigned the same number as the certificate concerned, provided that that number is unique; and (c) shall each expire as soon as the certificate endorsed expires or is withdrawn, suspended or cancelled by the Member State or third country which issued it and, in any case, within five years of their date of issue. 8.
The capacity in which the holder of a certificate is authorised to serve shall be identified in the form of endorsement in terms identical to those used in the applicable safe-manning requirements of the Member State concerned. 9.
Article 7 Principles governing near-coastal voyages 1.
In no case shall a Member State impose requirements in respect of seafarers serving on board ships flying the flag of another Member State or of another Party to the STCW Convention in excess of those of this Directive in respect of ships not engaged on near-coastal voyages. 2.
With respect to ships entitled to fly the flag of a Member State regularly engaged on near-coastal voyages off the coast of another Member State or of another Party to the STCW Convention, the Member State the flag of which a ship is entitled fo fly shall prescribe training, experience and certification requirements for seafarers serving on such ships at least equal to those of the Member State or the Party to the STCW Convention off the coast of which the ship is engaged, provided that they do not exceed the requirements of this Directive in respect of ships not engaged on near-coastal voyages.
Article 8 Penalties or disciplinary measures 1.
In particular, such penalties or disciplinary measures shall be prescribed and enforced in cases in which: (a) a company or a master has engaged a person not holding a certificate as required by this Directive; (b) a master has allowed any function or service in any capacity which under this Directive must be performed by a person holding an appropriate certificate to be performed by a person not holding the required certificate, a valid dispensation or having the documentary proof required by Article 18(4); or (c) a person has obtained by fraud or forged documents an engagement to perform any function or serve in any capacity which under this Directive must be performed or filled by a person holding a certificate or dispensation. 4.
Article 9 Quality standards 1.
Article 10 Medical standards - Issue and registration of certificates 1.
Each candidate for certification shall provide satisfactory proof: (a) of his identity; (b) that his age is not less than that prescribed in the Regulations in Annex I relevant to the certificate applied for; (c) that he meets the standards of medical fitness, particularly regarding eyesight and hearing, established by the Member State and holds a valid document attesting to his medical fitness, issued by a duly qualified medicial practitioner recognised by the competent authority of the Member State; (d) of having completed the seagoing service and any related compulsory training prescribed in the Regulations in Annex I for the certificate applied for; (e) that he meets the standards of competence prescribed in the Regulations in Annex I for the capacities, functions and levels that are to be identified in the endorsement to the certificate. 4.
Each Member State shall undertake: (a) to maintain a register or registers of all certificates and endorsements for masters and officers and, as appropriate, ratings, which are issued, have expired or have been revalidated, suspended, cancelled or reported lost or destroyed and of dispensations issued; (b) to make available information on the status of such certificates, endorsements and dispensations to other Member States or other Parties to the STCW Convention and companies which request verification of the authenticity and validity of certificates produced to them by seafarers seeking recognition of their certificates or employment on board ship.
Every master, officer and radio operator holding a certificate issued or recognised under any chapter of Annex I other than Chapter VI who is serving at sea or intends to return to sea after a period ashore shall, in order to continue to qualify for seagoing service, be required at intervals not exceeding five years; (a) to meet the standards of medical fitness prescribed by Article 10; and (b) to establish continued professional competence in accordance with section A-I/11 of the STCW Code. 2.
Each Member State shall compare the standards of competence which is required of candidates for certificates issued before 1 February 2002 with those specified for the appropriate certificate in Part A of the STCW Code, and shall determine the need to require the holders of such certificates to undergo appropriate refresher and updating training or assessment.
Article 12 Use of simulators 1.
The performance standards and other provisions set out in section A-I/12 of the STCW code and such other requirements as are prescribed in Part A of the STCW Code for any certificate concerned shall be complied with in respect of: (a) all mandatory simulator-based training; (b) any assessment of competence required by Part A of the STCW Code which is carried out by means of a simulator (c) any demonstration, by means of a simulator, of continued proficiency required by Part A of the STCW Code. 2.
Article 13 Responsibilities of companies 1.
In accordance with paragraphs 2 and 3 Member States shall hold companies responsible for the assignment of seafarers for service in their ships in accordance with this Directive, and shall require every company to ensure that: (a) each seafarer assigned to any of its ships holds an appropriate certificate in accordance which the provisions of this Directive and as established by the Member State; (b) its ships are manned in accordance with the applicable safe-manning requirements of the Member State; (c) documentation and data relevant to all seafarers employed on its ships are maintained and readily accessible, and include, without being limited to, documentation and data on their experience, training, medical fitness and competence in assigned duties; (d) on being assigned to any of its ships seafarers are familiarised with their specific duties and with all ship arrangements, installations, equipment, procedures, and ship characteristics that are relevant to their routine or emergency duties; (e) the ship's complement can effectivley coordinate their activities in an emergency situation and in performing functions vital to safety or to the prevention or mitigation of pollution. 2.
Article 14 Fitness for duty 1.
All persons who are assigned duty as officer in charge of a watch or as a rating forming part of a watch shall be allowed at least 10 hours of rest in any 24-hour period. 3.
Article 15 Dispensation 1.
Article 16 Responsibilities of Member States with regard to training and assessment 1.
Member States shall designate the authorities or bodies which shall: - give the training referred to in Article 3, - organise and/or supervise the examinations where required, - issue the certificates of competence referred to in Article 10, and - grant the dispensations provided for in Article 15. 2.
Article 17 On-board communication Member States shall ensure that: (a) without prejudice to points (b) and (d), there are at all times, on board all ships flying the flag of a Member State, means in place for effective oral communication relating to safety between all members of the ship's crew, particularly with regard to the correct and timely reception and understanding of messages and instructions; (b) on board all passenger ships flying the flag of a Member State and on board all passenger ships starting and/or finishing a voyage in a Member State port, in order to ensure effective crew performance in safety matters, a working language is established and recorded in the ship's log-book.
Article 18 Recognition of certificates 1.
Seafarers who do not possess the certificates referred to in Article 4 may be allowed to serve on ships flying the flag of a Member State, provided a decision on the recognition of their appropriate certificates has been adopted through the procedure set out below: (a) when recognising, by endorsement, an appropriate certificate issued by a third country, the Member State shall proceed in accordance with the procedures and criteria set out in Annex II; (b) Member States shall notify the Commission, which shall inform the other Member States, of the appropriate certificates they have recognised or intend to recognise in accordance with the criteria referred to in point (a); (c) if within three months of Member States having been informed by the Commission in accordance with point (b) an objection is raised by a Member State or the Commission on the basis of the criteria referred to in point (a), the Commission shall subject the matter to the procedure referred to in Article 23(2).
The Member State concerned shall take appropriate measures to implement the decisions taken in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 23(2); (d) when an appropriate certificate issued by a third country has been recognised under the above procedure, and if, after the completion of its evaluation the MSC has not been able to identify the third country as having demonstrated that full and complete effect is given to the provisions of the STCW Convention, the Commission shall subject the matter to the procedure referred to in Article 23(2) in order to reassess the recognition of the certificates issued by that country.
Notwithstanding Article 5(6), a Member State may, if circumstances require, allow a seafarer to serve in a capacity other than radio officer or radio operator, except as provided by the Radio Regulations, for a period not exceeding three months on board a ship flying its flag, while holding an appropriate and valid certificate issued and endorsed as required by a third country, but not yet endorsed for recognition by the Member State concerned so as to render it appropriate for service on board a ship flying its flag.
Article 19 Port State control 1.
Article 20 Port State control procedures 1.
Without prejudice to Directive 95/21/EC, port State control pursuant to Article 19 shall be limited to the following: - verification that every seafarer serving on board who must be certificated in accordance with the STCW Convention holds an appropriate certificate or a valid dispensation or provides documentary proof that an application for an endorsement attesting recognition has been submitted to the authorities of the flag State, - verification that the numbers and certificates of the seafarers serving on board are in accordance with the safe-manning requirements of the authorities of the flag State. 2.
The ability of the ship's seafarers to maintain watchkeeping standards as required by the STCW Convention shall be assessed in accordance with Part A of the STCW Code if there are clear grounds for believing that such standards are not being maintained because any of the following has occurred: - the ship has been involved in a collision, grounding or stranding, - there has been a discharge of substances from the ship when under way, at anchor or at berth which is illegal under any international convention, - the ship has been manoeuvred in an erratic or unsafe manner whereby routing measures adopted by the IMO, or safe navigation practices and procedures have not been followed, - the ship is otherwise being operated in such a manner as to pose a danger to persons, property or the environment, - a certificate has been fraudulently obtained or the holder of a certificate is not the person to whom that certificate was originally issued, - the ship is flying the flag of a country which has not ratified the STCW Convention, or has a master, officer or rating holding a certificate issued by a third country which has not ratified the STCW Convention. 3.
Article 21 Detention Without prejudice to Directive 95/21/EC, the following deficiencies, in so far as it has been determined by the officer carrying out the port State control that they pose a danger to persons, property or the environment, shall be the only grounds under this Directive on which a Member State may detain a ship: (a) failure of seafarers to hold certificates, to have appropriate certificates, to have valid dispensations or provide documentary proof that an application for an endorsement attesting recognition has been submitted to the authorities of the flag State, (b) failure to comply with the applicable safe-manning requirements of the flag State, (c) failure of navigational or engineering-watch arrangements to conform to the requirements specified for the ship by the flag State, (d) absence in a watch of a person qualified to operate equipment essential to safe navigation, safety radiocommunications or the prevention of marine pollution, (e) failure to provide proof of professional proficiency for the duties assigned to seafarers for the safety of the ship and the prevention of pollution, (f) inability to provide for the first watch at the commencement of a voyage and for subsequent relieving watches persons who are sufficiently rested and otherwise fit for duty.
Article 22 Amendment 1.
This Directive may be amended in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 23(2), in order to apply, for the purposes of this Directive, subsequent amendments to the international codes referred to in Article 1(16), (17), (18), (23) and (24) which have entered into force. 2.
Article 23 Committee procedure 1.
The period provided for in Article 5(6) of Decision 1999/468/EC shall be eight weeks. 3.
Article 24 Transitional provisions 1.
Until 1 February 2002 Member States may continue to issue, recognise and endorse certificates in accordance with the provisions which applied before 1 February 1997 in respect of those seafarers who began approved seagoing service, approved education and training programmes or approved training courses before 1 August 1998. 2.
Until 1 February 2002 Member States may continue to renew and revalidate certificates and endorsements in accordance with the provisions which applied before 1 February 1997. 3.
Article 25 Penalties Member States shall lay down systems of penalties for breaching the national provisions adopted pursuant to Articles 1, 3, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 16, 17, Article 18(3) and (4), Articles 19, 20, 21 and 24, and Annexes I and II, and shall take all the measures necessary to ensure that they are inplemented.
Article 26 Communication Member States shall immediately communicate to the Commission the texts of all the provisions which they adopt in the field governed by this Directive.
Article 27 Repeal 1.
References to the repealed Directive shall be construed as references to this Directive and shall be read in accordance with the correlation table in Annex IV.
Article 28 Entry into force This Directive shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Article 29 Addressees This Directive is adressed to the Member States.
Fontaine For the Council The President B.
ANNEX I TRAINING REQUIREMENTS OF THE STCW CONVENTION, REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE 3 CHAPTER I GENERAL PROVISIONS 1.
Any reference to a requirement in a Regulation also constitutes a reference to the corresponding section of Part A of the STCW Code. 2.
CHAPTER II MASTER AND DECK DEPARTMENT Regulation II/1 Mandatory minimum requirements for certification of officers in charge of a navigational watch on ships of 500 gross tonnage or more 1.
Every officer in charge of a navigational watch serving on a seagoing ship of 500 gross tonnage or more shall hold an appropriate certificate. 2.
Every candidate for certification shall: 2.1.
be not less than 18 years of age 2.2.
have approved seagoing service of not less than one year as part of an approved training programme which includes on-board training which meets the requirements of section A-II/1 of the STCW Code and is documented in an approved training record book, or otherwise have approved seagoing service of not less than three years 2.3.
have completed approved education and training and meet the standard of competence specified in section A-II/1 of the STCW Code.
Regulation II/2 Mandatory minimum requirements for certification of masters and chief mates on ships of 500 gross tonnage or more Master and chief mate on ships of 3000 gross tonnage or more 1.
Every master and chief mate on a seagoing ship of 3000 gross tonnage or more shall hold an appropriate certificate. 2.
Every candidate for certification shall: 2.1.
meet the requirements for certification as an officer in charge of a navigational watch on ships of 500 gross tonnage or more and have approved seagoing service in that capacity: 2.1.1.
for certification as master, not less than 36 months; however, this period may be reduced to not less than 24 months if not less than 12 months of such seagoing service has been served as chief mate; 2.2.
have completed approved education and training and meet the standard of competence specified in section A-II/2 of the STCW Code for masters and chief mates on ships of 3000 gross tonnage or more.
Master and chief mate on ships of between 500 and 3000 gross tonnage 3.
Every master and chief mate on a seagoing ship of between 500 and 3000 gross tonnage shall hold an appropriate certificate. 4.
Every candidate for certification shall: 4.1.
for certification as chief mate, meet the requirements of an officer in charge of a navigational watch on ships of 500 gross tonnage or more 4.2.
for certification as master, meet the requirements of an officer in charge of a navigational watch on ships of 500 gross tonnage or more and have approved seagoing service of not less than 36 months in that capacity; however, this period may be reduced to not less than 24 months if not less than 12 months of such seagoing service has been served as chief mate; 4.3.
have completed approved training and meet the standard of competence specified in section A-II/2 of the STCW Code for masters and chief mates on ships of between 500 and 3000 gross tonnage.
Regulation II/3 Mandatory minimum requirements for certification of officers in charge of a navigational watch and of masters on ships of less than 500 gross tonnage Ships not engaged on near-coastal voyages 1.
Every officer in charge of a navigational watch serving on a seagoing ship of less than 500 gross tonnage not engaged on near-coastal voyages shall hold an appropriate certificate for ships of 500 gross tonnage or more. 2.
Every master serving on a seagoing ship of less than 500 gross tonnage not engaged on near-coastal voyages shall hold an appropriate certificate for service as master on ships of between 500 and 3000 gross tonnage.
Ships engaged on near-coastal voyages Officer in charge of a navigational watch 3.
Every officer in charge of a navigational watch on a seagoing ship of less than 500 gross tonnage engaged on near-coastal voyages shall hold an appropriate certificate. 4.
Every candidate for certification as officer in charge of a navigational watch on a seagoing ship of less than 500 gross tonnage engaged on near-coastal voyages shall: 4.1.
be not less than 18 years of age; 4.2.
have completed: 4.2.1.
have completed approved education and training and meet the standard of competence specified in section A-II/3 of the STCW Code for officers in charge of a navigational watch on ships of less than 500 gross tonnage engaged on near-coastal voyages.
Every master serving on a seagoing ship of less than 500 gross tonnage engaged on near-coastal voyages shall hold an appropriate certificate. 6.
Every candidate for certification as master on a seagoing ship of less than 500 gross tonnage engaged on a near-coastal voyages shall: 6.1.
be not less than 20 years of age; 6.2.
have approved seagoing service of not less than 12 months as officer in charge of a navigational watch; 6.3.
have completed approved education and training and meet the standard of competence specified in section A-II/3 of the STCW Code for masters on ships of less than 500 gross tonnage engaged on near-coastal voyages. 7.
Every rating forming part of a navigational watch on a seagoing ship of 500 gross tonnage or more, other than ratings under training and ratings whose duties while on watch are of an unskilled nature, shall be duly certificated to perform such duties. 2.
Every candidate for certification shall: 2.1.
be not less than 16 years of age; 2.2.
have completed: 2.2.1.
special training, either pre-sea or on board ship, including an approved period of seagoing service which shall not be less than two months; 2.3.
meet the standard of competence specified in section A-II/4 of the STCW Code. 3.
The seagoing service, training and experience required by subparagraphs 2.2.1 and 2.2.2 shall be associated with navigational watchkeeping functions and involve the performance of duties carried out under the direct supervision of the master, the officer in charge of the navigational watch or a qualified rating. 4.
Seafarers may be considered by a Member State to have met the requirements of this regulation if they have served in a relevant capacity in the deck department for a period of not less than one year within the last five preceding the entry into force of the STCW Convention for that Member State.
CHAPTER III ENGINE DEPARTMENT Regulation III/1 Mandatory minimum requirements for certification of officers in charge of an engineering watch in a manned engine-room or designated duty engineers in a periodically unmanned engine-room 1.
Every officer in charge of an engineering watch in a manned engine-room or designated duty engineer officer in a periodically unmanned engine-room on a seagoing ship powered by main propulsion machinery of 750 kW propulsion power or more shall hold an appropriate certificate. 2.
Every candidate for certification shall: 2.1.
be not less than 18 years of age; 2.2.
have completed not less than six months seagoing service in the engine department in accordance with section A-III/1 of the STCW Code; 2.3.
have completed approved education and training of at least 30 months which includes on-board training documented in an approved training record book and meet the standards of competence specified in section A-III/1 of the STCW Code.
Regulation III/2 Mandatory minimum requirements for certification of chief engineer officers and second engineer officers on ships powered by main propulsion machinery of 3000 kW propulsion power or more 1.
Every chief engineer officer and second engineer officer on a seagoing ship powered by main propulsion machinery of 3000 kW propulsion power or more shall hold an appropriate certificate. 2.
Every candidate for certification shall: 2.1.
meet the requirements for certification as an officer in charge of an engineering watch and: 2.1.1.
for certification as chief engineer officer, shall have not less than 36 months approved seagoing service of which not less than 12 months shall have been served as an engineer officer in a position of responsibility while qualified to serve as second engineer officer; 2.2.
have completed approved education and training and meet the standard of competence specified in section A-III/2 of the STCW Code.
Regulation III/3 Mandatory minimum requirements for certification of chief engineer officers and second engineer officers on ships powered by main propulsion machinery of between 750 kW and 3000 kW propulsion power 1.
Every chief engineer officer and second engineer officer on a seagoing ship powered by main propulsion machinery of between 750 and 3000 kW propulsion power shall hold an appropriate certificate. 2.
Every candidate for certification shall: 2.1.
meet the requirements for certification as an officer in charge of an engineering watch and: 2.1.1.
for certification as chief engineer officer, shall have not less than 24 months approved seagoing service of which not less than 12 months shall be served while qualified to serve as second engineer officer; 2.2.
have completed approved education and training and meet the standard of competence specified in section A-III/3 of the STCW Code. 3.
Every engineer officer who is qualified to serve as second engineer officer on ships powered by main propulsion machinery of 3000 kW propulsion power or more, may serve as chief engineer officer on ships powered by main propulsion machinery of less than 3000 kW propulsion power, provided that not less than 12 months approved seagoing service shall have been served as an engineer officer in a position of responsibility and the certificate is so endorsed.
Every rating forming part of an engine-room watch or designated to perform duties in a periodically unmanned engine-room on a seagoing ship powered by main propulsion machinery of 750 kW propulsion power or more, other than ratings under training and ratings whose duties are of an unskilled nature, shall be duly certificated to perform such duties. 2.
Every candidate for certification shall: 2.1.
be not less than 16 years of age; 2.2.
have completed: 2.2.1.
special training, either pre-sea or on board ship, including an approved period of seagoing service which shall not be less than two months; 2.3.
meet the standard of competence specified in section A-III/4 of the STCW Code. 3.
Seafarers may be considered by a Member State to have met the requirements of this regulation if they have served in a relevant capacity in the engine department for a period of not less than one year within the last five years preceding the entry into force of the STCW Convention for that Member State.
Regulation IV/1 Application 1.
Every person in charge of or performing radio duties on a ship required to participate in the GMDSS shall hold an appropriate certificate related to the GMDSS, issued or recognised by the Administration under the provisions of the Radio Regulations. 2.
be not less than 18 years of age; and 2.2.
have completed approved education and training and meet the standard of competence specified in section A-IV/2 of the STCW Code.
CHAPTER V SPECIAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS FOR PERSONNEL ON CERTAIN TYPES OF SHIPS Regulation V/1 Mandatory minimum requirements for the training and qualification of masters, officers and ratings on tankers 1.
the tanker is of less than 3000 gross tonnage; 1.5.
Within two years after the entry into force of the STCW Convention for a Member State, seafarers may be considered to have met the requirements of subparagraph 2.2 if they have served in a relevant capacity on board the type of tanker concerned for a period of not less than one year within the preceding five years. 4.
This Regulation applies to masters, officers, ratings and other personnel serving on board ro-ro passenger ships engaged on international voyages.
Administrations shall determine the applicability of these requirements to personnel serving on ro-ro passenger ships engaged on domestic voyages. 2.
Seafarers who are required to be trained in accordance with paragraphs 4, 7 and 8 below shall at intervals not exceeding five years undertake appropriate refresher training. 4.
Masters, officers and other personnel designated on muster lists to assist passengers in emergency situations on board ro-ro passenger ships shall have completed training in crowd management as specified in section A-V/2, paragraph 1, of the STCW Code. 5.
Masters, officers and other personnel assigned specific duties and responsibilities on board ro-ro passenger ships shall have completed the familiarisation training specified in section A-V/2, paragraph 2, of the STCW Code. 6.
Personnel providing direct service to passengers in passenger spaces on board ro-ro passenger ships shall have completed the safety training specified in section A-V/2, paragraph 3, of the STCW Code. 7.
Masters, chief mates, chief engineer officers, second engineer officers and every person assigned immediate responsibility for embarking and disembarking passengers, loading, discharging or securing cargo, or closing hull openings on board ro-ro passenger ships shall have completed approved training in passenger safety, cargo safety and hull integrity as specified in section A-V/2, paragraph 4, of the STCW Code. 8.
Masters, chief mates, chief engineer officers, second engineer officers and any person having responsibility for the safety of passengers in emergency situations on board ro-ro passenger ships shall have completed approved training in crisis management and human behaviour as specified in section A-V/2, paragraph 5, of the STCW Code. 9.
CHAPTER VI EMERGENCY, OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY, MEDICAL CARE AND SURVIVAL FUNCTIONS Regulation V1/1 Mandatory minimum requirements for familiarisation, basic safety training and instruction for all seafarers Seafarers shall receive familiarisation and basic safety training or instruction in accordance with section A-V1/1 of the STCW Code and shall meet the appropriate standard of competence specified therein.
Every candidate for a certificate of proficiency in survival craft and rescue boats other than fast rescue boats shall: 1.1.
be not less than 18 years of age; 1.2.
meet the standard of competence for certificates of proficiency in survival craft and rescue boats set out in section A-V1/2, paragraphs 1 to 4, of the STCW Code. 2.
have attended an approved training course; 2.3.
Seafarers designated to control fire-fighting operations shall have successfully completed advanced training in techniques for fighting fire with particular emphasis on organisation, tactics and command in accordance with the provisions of section A-VI/3 of the STCW Code and shall meet the standard of competence specified therein. 2.
CHAPTER VII ALTERNATIVE CERTIFICATION Regulation VII/1 Issue of alternative certificates 1.
the associated functions and levels of responsibility to be stated on the certificates and in the endorsements are selected from and identical to those appearing in sections A-II/1, A-II/2, A-II/3, A-II/4, A-III/1, A-III/2, A-III/3, A-III/4 and A-IV/2 of the STCW Code; 1.2.
the candidates have completed approved education and training and meet the requirements for standards of competence, prescribed in the relevant sections of the STCW Code and as set forth in section A-VII/1 of this Code, for the functions and levels that are to be stated on the certificates and in the endorsements; 1.3.
the certificates are issued in accordance with the requirements of Article 11 and the provisions set forth in Chapter VII of the STCW Code. 2.
Regulation VII/2 Certification of seafarers Every seafarer who performs any function or group of functions specified in tables, A-II/1, A-II/2, A-II/3 or AII/4 of Chapter II or in tables A-III/1, A-III/2, A-III/4 of Chapter III or A-IV/2 of Chapter IV of the STCW Code, shall hold an appropriate certificate.
Regulation VII/3 Principles governing the issue of alternative certificates 1.
The principle of interchangeability in paragraph 1 shall ensure that: 2.1.
the issue of alternative certificates shall not be used in itself: 3.1.1.
have gained practical assessment experience, and 3.5.
