2002/187/JHA: Council Decision of 28 February 2002 setting up Eurojust with a view to reinforcing the fight against serious crime Council Decision of 28 February 2002 setting up Eurojust with a view to reinforcing the fight against serious crime (2002/187/JHA) THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty on European Union, and in particular Articles 31 and 34(2)(c) thereof, Having regard to the initiative of the Federal Republic of Germany and to that of the Portuguese Republic, the French Republic, the Kingdom of Sweden and the Kingdom of Belgium(1), Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament(2), Whereas: (1) It is necessary to improve judicial cooperation between the Member States further, in particular in combating forms of serious crime often perpetrated by transnational organisations. (2) The effective improvement of judicial cooperation between the Member States requires the immediate adoption of structural measures at European Union level to facilitate the optimal coordination of action for investigations and prosecutions covering the territory of more than one Member State with full respect for fundamental rights and freedoms. (3) In order to reinforce the fight against serious organised crime, the Tampere European Council of 15 and 16 October 1999, in particular in point 46 of its conclusions, decided on the setting up of a unit (Eurojust) composed of prosecutors, magistrates or police officers of equivalent competence. (4) This Eurojust unit is set up by this Decision as a body of the European Union with legal personality and financed from the general budget of the European Union, except as regards the salaries and emoluments of the national members and assisting persons, which are borne by their Member State of origin. (5) The objectives of Regulation (EC) No 1073/1999 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 May 1999 concerning investigations conducted by the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF)(3) are also relevant to Eurojust.
The Eurojust College should adopt the necessary implementing measures to achieve those objectives.
In this connection, OLAF should be denied access to documents, evidence, reports, notes or information, in whatever form, which are held or created in the course of these activities, whether under way or already concluded, and the transmission of such documents, evidence, reports, notes and information to OLAF should be prohibited. (6) In order to be able to attain its objectives as efficiently as possible, Eurojust should fulfil its tasks either through one or more of its national members or acting as a College. (7) The competent authorities of the Member States should be able to exchange information with Eurojust in accordance with arrangements which serve and observe the interests of public service. (8) Eurojust's jurisdiction is without prejudice to the Community's competence to protect its own financial interests and is also without prejudice to existing conventions and agreements, in particular the European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters (Council of Europe) signed in Strasbourg on 20 April 1959, and also the Convention on Mutual Assistance on Criminal Matters between the Member States of the European Union(4) adopted by the Council on 29 May 2000, and the Protocol(5) thereto adopted on 16 October 2001. (9) In order to achieve its objectives, Eurojust processes personal data by automated means or in structured manual files.
Eurojust shall be composed of one national member seconded by each Member State in accordance with its legal system, being a prosecutor, judge or police officer of equivalent competence. 2.
If necessary and with the agreement of the College referred to in Article 10, several persons may assist the national member.
Article 3 Objectives 1.
In the context of investigations and prosecutions, concerning two or more Member States, of criminal behaviour referred to in Article 4 in relation to serious crime, particularly when it is organised, the objectives of Eurojust shall be: (a) to stimulate and improve the coordination, between the competent authorities of the Member States, of investigations and prosecutions in the Member States, taking into account any request emanating from a competent authority of a Member State and any information provided by any body competent by virtue of provisions adopted within the framework of the Treaties; (b) to improve cooperation between the competent authorities of the Member States, in particular by facilitating the execution of international mutual legal assistance and the implementation of extradition requests; (c) to support otherwise the competent authorities of the Member States in order to render their investigations and prosecutions more effective. 2.
In accordance with the rules laid down by this Decision and at the request of a Member State's competent authority, Eurojust may also assist investigations and prosecutions concerning only that Member State and a non-Member State where an agreement establishing cooperation pursuant to Article 27(3) has been concluded with the said State or where in a specific case there is an essential interest in providing such assistance. 3.
In accordance with the rules laid down by this Decision and at the request either of a Member State's competent authority or of the Commission, Eurojust may also assist investigations and prosecutions concerning only that Member State and the Community.
Article 4 Competences 1.
The general competence of Eurojust shall cover: (a) the types of crime and the offences in respect of which Europol is at all times competent to act pursuant to Article 2 of the Europol Convention of 26 July 1995; (b) the following types of crime: - computer crime, - fraud and corruption and any criminal offence affecting the European Community's financial interests, - the laundering of the proceeds of crime, - environmental crime, - participation in a criminal organisation within the meaning of Council Joint Action 98/733/JHA of 21 December 1998 on making it a criminal offence to participate in a criminal organisation in the Member States of the European Union(8); (c) other offences committed together with the types of crime and the offences referred to in points (a) and (b). 2.
For types of offences other than those referred to in paragraph 1, Eurojust may in addition, in accordance with its objectives, assist in investigations and prosecutions at the request of a competent authority of a Member State.
Article 5 Tasks of Eurojust 1.
In order to accomplish its objectives, Eurojust shall fulfil its tasks: (a) through one or more of the national members concerned in accordance with Article 6, or (b) as a College in accordance with Article 7: (i) when so requested by one or more of the national members concerned by a case dealt with by Eurojust, or (ii) when the case involves investigations or prosecutions which have repercussions at Union level or which might affect Member States other than those directly concerned, or (iii) when a general question relating to the achievement of its objectives is involved, or (iv) when otherwise provided for in this Decision. 2.
When it fulfils its tasks, Eurojust shall indicate whether it is acting through one or more of the national members within the meaning of Article 6 or as a College within the meaning of Article 7.
Article 6 Tasks of Eurojust acting through its national members When Eurojust acts through its national members concerned, it: (a) may ask the competent authorities of the Member States concerned to consider: (i) undertaking an investigation or prosecution of specific acts; (ii) accepting that one of them may be in a better position to undertake an investigation or to prosecute specific acts; (iii) coordinating between the competent authorities of the Member States concerned; (iv) setting up a joint investigation team in keeping with the relevant cooperation instruments; (v) providing it with any information that is necessary for it to carry out its tasks; (b) shall ensure that the competent authorities of the Member States concerned inform each other on investigations and prosecutions of which it has been informed; (c) shall assist the competent authorities of the Member States, at their request, in ensuring the best possible coordination of investigations and prosecutions; (d) shall give assistance in order to improve cooperation between the competent national authorities; (e) shall cooperate and consult with the European Judicial Network, including making use of and contributing to the improvement of its documentary database; (f) shall, in the cases referred to Article 3(2) and (3) and with the agreement of the College, assist investigations and prosecutions concerning the competent authorities of only one Member State; (g) may, in accordance with its objectives and within the framework of Article 4(1) in order to improve cooperation and coordination between the competent authorities, forward requests for judicial assistance when they: (i) are made by the competent authority of a Member State; (ii) concern an investigation or prosecution conducted by that authority in a specific case, and (iii) necessitate its intervention with a view to coordinated action.
Article 7 Tasks of Eurojust acting as a College When Eurojust acts as a College, it: (a) may in relation to the types of crime and the offences referred to in Article 4(1) ask the competent authorities of the Member States concerned, giving its reasons: (i) to undertake an investigation or prosecution of specific acts; (ii) to accept that one of them may be in a better position to undertake an investigation or to prosecute specific acts; (iii) to coordinate between the competent authorities of the Member States concerned; (iv) to set up a joint investigation team in keeping with the relevant cooperation instruments; (v) to provide it with any information that is necessary for it to carry out its tasks; (b) shall ensure that the competent authorities of the Member States inform each other of investigations and prosecutions of which it has been informed and which have repercussions at Union level or which might affect Member States other than those directly concerned; (c) shall assist the competent authorities of the Member States, at their request, in ensuring the best possible coordination of investigations and prosecutions; (d) shall give assistance in order to improve cooperation between the competent authorities of the Member States, in particular on the basis of Europol's analysis; (e) shall cooperate and consult with the European Judicial Network, including making use of and contributing to the improvement of its documentary database; (f) may assist Europol, in particular by providing it with opinions based on analyses carried out by Europol; (g) may supply logistical support in the cases referred to in points (a), (c) and (d) above.
Article 8 Reasons If the competent authorities of the Member State concerned decide not to comply with a request referred to in Article 7(a), they shall inform Eurojust of their decision and of the reasons for it unless, in the cases referred to in Article 7(a)(i), (ii) and (v), they are unable to give their reasons because: (i) to do so would harm essential national security interests, or (ii) to do so would jeopardise the success of investigations under way or the safety of individuals.
Article 9 National members 1.
In order to meet Eurojust's objectives, the national member shall have access to the information contained in the national criminal records or in any other register of his Member State in the same way as stipulated by his national law in the case of a prosecutor, judge or police officer of equivalent competence. 5.
Article 10 College 1.
The College shall consist of all the national members.
Each national member shall have one vote. 2.
After consulting the joint supervisory body provided for in Article 23 as regards the provisions on the processing of personal data, the Council shall approve Eurojust's rules of procedure on a proposal from the College which has previously been adopted unanimously by the latter.
When acting in accordance with Article 7(a), the College shall take its decisions by a two-thirds majority.
Article 11 Role of the Commission 1.
Article 12 National correspondents 1.
Each Member State may put in place or appoint one or more national correspondents.
Where a Member State appoints a national correspondent, he may be a contact point of the European Judicial Network. 3.
Relations between the national member and the national correspondent shall not preclude direct relations between the national member and his competent authorities.
Article 13 Exchanges of information with the Member States and between national members 1.
The competent authorities of the Member States may exchange with Eurojust any information necessary for the performance of its tasks in accordance with Article 5. 2.
Insofar as it is necessary to achieve its objectives, Eurojust may, within the framework of its competence and in order to carry out its tasks, process personal data, by automated means or in structured manual files. 2.
Eurojust shall take the necessary measures to guarantee a level of protection for personal data at least equivalent to that resulting from the application of the principles of the Council of Europe Convention of 28 January 1981 and subsequent amendments thereto where they are in force in the Member States. 3.
Personal data processed by Eurojust shall be adequate, relevant and not excessive in relation to the purpose of the processing, and, taking into account the information provided by the competent authorities of the Member States or other partners in accordance with Articles 13 and 26, accurate and up-to-date.
In accordance with this Decision, Eurojust shall establish an index of data relating to investigations and may establish temporary work files which also contain personal data.
However, in exceptional cases, Eurojust may also, for a limited period of time, process other personal data relating to the circumstances of an offence where they are immediately relevant to and included in ongoing investigations which Eurojust is helping to coordinate, provided that the processing of such specific data is in accordance with Articles 14 and 21.
The Data Protection Officer referred to in Article 17 shall be informed immediately of recourse to this paragraph.
Article 16 Index and temporary work files 1.
The index shall contain references to temporary work files processed within the framework of Eurojust. 3.
In the performance of their duties under Articles 6 and 7, the national members of Eurojust may process data on the individual cases on which they are working in a temporary work file.
Article 17 Data Protection Officer 1.
The Data Protection Officer shall in particular have the following tasks: (a) ensuring, in an independent manner, lawfulness and compliance with the provisions of this Decision concerning the processing of personal data; (b) ensuring that a written record of the transmission and receipt, for the purposes of Article 19(3) in particular, of personal data is kept in accordance with the provisions to be laid down in the rules of procedure, under the security conditions laid down in Article 22; (c) ensuring that data subjects are informed of their rights under this Decision at their request. 3.
In the performance of his tasks, the Officer shall have access to all the data processed by Eurojust and to all Eurojust premises. 4.
Article 18 Authorised access to personal data Only national members and their assistants referred to in Article 2(2) and authorised Eurojust staff may, for the purpose of achieving Eurojust's objectives, have access to personal data processed by Eurojust.
Article 19 Right of access to personal data 1.
Any individual wishing to exercise his right to have access to data concerning him which are stored at Eurojust, or to have them checked in accordance with Article 20, may make a request to that effect free of charge in the Member State of his choice, to the authority appointed for that purpose in that Member State, and that authority shall refer it to Eurojust without delay. 3.
Where the members are not in agreement, they shall refer the matter to the College, which shall take its decision on the request by a two-thirds majority. 7.
Article 20 Correction and deletion of personal data 1.
At the request of a Member State's competent authorities, national member or national correspondent, if any, and under their responsibility, Eurojust shall, in accordance with its rules of procedure, correct or delete personal data being processed by Eurojust which were transmitted or entered by that Member State, its national member or its national correspondent.
Article 21 Time limits for the storage of personal data 1.
Article 22 Data security 1.
Article 23 Joint Supervisory Body 1.
An independent joint supervisory body shall be established to monitor collectively the Eurojust activities referred to in Articles 14 to 22 in order to ensure that the processing of personal data is carried out in accordance with this Decision.
In order to fulfil these tasks, the Joint Supervisory Body shall be entitled to have full access to all files where such personal data are processed.
The Joint Supervisory Body shall meet at least once in each half year.
In order to set up the Joint Supervisory Body, each Member State, acting in accordance with its legal system, shall appoint a judge who is not a member of Eurojust, or, if its constitutional or national system so requires a person holding an office giving him sufficient independence, for inclusion on the list of judges who may sit on the Joint Supervisory Body as members or ad hoc judges.
Appointment and removal shall be communicated to both the Council General Secretariat and Eurojust. 2.
The Joint Supervisory Body shall be composed of three permanent members and, as provided for in paragraph 4, ad hoc judges. 3.
If the Joint Supervisory Body considers that a decision taken by Eurojust or the processing of data by it is not compatible with this Decision, the matter shall be referred to Eurojust, which shall accept the decision of the Joint Supervisory Body. 8.
Decisions of the Joint Supervisory Body shall be final and binding on Eurojust. 9.
The secretariat of the Joint Supervisory Body shall enjoy independence in the discharge of its function within the Eurojust secretariat. 11.
The members of the Joint Supervisory Body shall be subject to the obligation of confidentiality laid down in Article 25. 12.
The Joint Supervisory Body shall submit an annual report to the Council.
Article 24 Liability for unauthorised or incorrect processing of data 1.
Eurojust shall be liable, in accordance with the national law of the Member State where its headquarters are situated, for any damage caused to an individual which results from unauthorised or incorrect processing of data carried out by it. 2.
Each Member State shall be liable, in accordance with its national law, for any damage caused to an individual which results from unauthorised or incorrect processing carried out by it of data which were communicated to Eurojust.
Article 25 Confidentiality 1.
The national members and their assistants referred to in Article 2(2), Eurojust staff and national correspondents, if any, and the Data Protection Officer shall be bound by an obligation of confidentiality, without prejudice to Article 9(1). 2.
Article 26 Relations with partners 1.
The rules applying to Eurojust staff shall apply to the staff of the European Judicial Network's secretariat where this is not incompatible with the operational autonomy of the European Judicial Network's secretariat; (c) The national members of Eurojust may attend meetings of the European Judicial Network at the invitation of the latter.
European Judicial Network contact points may be invited on a case-by-case basis to attend Eurojust meetings. 3.
For purposes of the receipt and transmission of information between Eurojust and OLAF, and without prejudice to Article 9, Member States shall ensure that the national members of Eurojust shall be regarded as competent authorities of the Member States solely for the purposes of Regulation (EC) No 1073/1999 and Council Regulation (Euratom) No 1074/1999 of 25 May 1999 concerning investigations conducted by the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF)(9).
Eurojust may conclude cooperation agreements, approved by the Council, with third States and the entities referred to in paragraph 1.
Without prejudice to paragraph 3, the transmission of personal data by Eurojust to the entities referred to in paragraph 1(b) and to the authorities referred to in paragraph 1(c) of third States which are not subject to the Council of Europe Convention of 28 January 1981 may be effected only when an adequate level of data protection is ensured. 5.
Any subsequent failure, or substantial likelihood of failure, on the part of the third States or entities referred to in paragraph 1(b) and (c) to meet the conditions referred to in paragraph 4 shall immediately be communicated by Eurojust to the Joint Supervisory Body and the Member States concerned.
Article 28 Organisation and operation 1.
The College shall be responsible for the organisation and operation of Eurojust. 2.
Eurojust shall be assisted by a secretariat headed by an Administrative Director. 6.
Article 29 Administrative Director 1.
The Administrative Director of Eurojust shall be appointed unanimously by the College.
The College shall set up a selection board which, following a call for applications, shall establish a list of candidates from among whom the College shall choose the Administrative Director. 2.
The Administrative Director shall be subject to the rules and regulations applicable to officials and other servants of the European Communities. 4.
The Administrative Director shall work under the authority of the College and its President, acting in accordance with Article 28(3).
Article 30 Staff 1.
Eurojust staff shall be subject to the rules and regulations applicable to the officials and other servants of the European Communities, particularly as regards their recruitment and status. 2.
Eurojust staff shall consist of staff recruited according to the rules and regulations referred to in paragraph 1, taking into account all the criteria referred to in Article 27 of the Staff Regulations of Officials of the European Communities laid down by Regulation (EEC, Euratom, ECSC) No 259/68(11), including their geographical distribution.
Article 31 Assistance with interpreting and translation 1.
Article 32 Information to the European Parliament and the Council 1.
Article 33 Finance 1.
Revenue and expenditure shall be balanced in the Eurojust budget. 3.
Article 35 Drawing up of the budget 1.
Article 36 Implementation of the budget and discharge 1.
No later than 31 March each year, the President, assisted by the Administrative Director, shall submit to the European Parliament, the Court of Auditors and the Commission detailed accounts of all revenue and expenditure for the previous financial year.
The Court of Auditors shall examine them in accordance with Article 248 of the Treaty establishing the European Community. 2.
The European Parliament, on a recommendation from the Council, shall give a discharge to Eurojust in respect of implementation of the budget before 30 April of year n + 2.
Article 37 Financial regulation applicable to the budget The financial regulation applicable to the Eurojust budget shall be adopted unanimously by the College, having received the opinions of the Commission and of the Court of Auditors, in accordance with Article 142 of the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities(12).
Article 38 Audit 1.
The auditor shall report his findings and recommendations to Eurojust and submit a copy of the report to the Commission.
The College shall adopt the necessary implementing measures.
Article 39 Access to documents On the basis of a proposal by the Administrative Director, the College shall adopt rules for access to Eurojust documents, taking account of the principles and limits stated in Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2001 regarding public access to European Parliament, Council and Commission documents(13).
Article 40 Territorial application This Decision shall apply to Gibraltar, which shall be represented by the national member for the United Kingdom.
Article 41 Transitional provisions 1.
The definitive appointment of a national member shall take effect on the day designated by the Member State for that purpose when notifying the General Secretariat of the Council by official post. 2.
As long as the Council has not approved Eurojust's rules of procedure the College shall take all its decisions by a two-thirds majority save where this Decision provides for a unanimous decision. 4.
Done at Brussels, 28 February 2002.
