Article 2 This Decision shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union.
It shall take effect as from 1 July 2003.
Done at Luxembourg, 18 June 2003.
Drys (1) Opinion delivered on 21 May 2003 (not yet published in the Official Journal). (2) OJ L 358, 31.12.1998, p. 109. (3) OJ L 5, 9.1.1999, p. 71.
Article 2 The Committee may, inter alia: - be consulted in the procedure leading to decisions relating to the exchange-rate mechanism of the third stage of economic and monetary union, - without prejudice to Article 207 of the Treaty, prepare the Council's reviews of the development of the exchange-rate of the euro, - provide the framework within which the dialogue between the Council and the European Central Bank (ECB) can be prepared and continued at the level of senior officials from ministries, national central banks, the Commission and the ECB.
Article 3 Members of the Committee and alternates shall be guided, in the performance of their duties, by the general interests of the Community.
Article 4 The Committee shall meet in two configurations: either with the members selected from the administrations, the national central banks, the Commission and the ECB, or with the members from administrations, the Commission and the ECB.
Article 5 Opinions, reports or communications shall be adopted by a majority of the members if a vote is requested.
Article 6 The Committee shall elect from among its members, by a majority of its members, a President for a two-year term.
Article 7 In the event of being prevented from fulfilling his/her duties, the President shall be replaced by the Vice-President of the Committee who shall be elected according to the same rules.
Article 8 Unless the Committee decides otherwise, alternates may attend meetings of the Committee.
Article 9 The Committee may entrust the study of specific questions to its alternate members, to subcommittees or to working parties.
Article 10 The Committee shall be convened by the President on his/her own initiative, or at the request of the Council, of the Commission or of at least four members of the Committee.
Article 11 As a rule, the President represents the Committee; in particular, the President may be authorised by the Committee to report on discussions and deliver oral comments on opinions and communications prepared by the Committee.
Article 12 The proceedings of the Committee shall be confidential.
Article 13 The Committee shall be assisted by a Secretariat under the direction of a Secretary.
Article 14 The Committee shall adopt its own procedural arrangements.%quot%
