The Member State where the rough diamonds are imported shall ensure their submission to the appropriate Community authority provided for in paragraphs 1 and 2.
Until the date of applicability of the Articles referred to in Article 29(3), a Member State may certify stocks of rough diamonds that have been imported or are present in the Community territory before that date.
Article 7 Notwithstanding the provisions of Articles 3, 4 and 5, a Community authority may allow the import of rough diamonds if the importer provides conclusive evidence that those diamonds were destined for import into the Community and were exported 5 working days or less before the date of applicability of the Articles referred to in Article 29(3).
Article 9 The Commission shall provide all Community authorities with authenticated specimens of the participants' certificates, the names and other relevant details of the participants issuing and/or validating authorities, authenticated specimens of stamps and signatures attesting that a certificate has been legally issued or validated and any other relevant information received in respect of certificates.
The Commission may, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 22(2), determine the format of this report in order to facilitate monitoring of the certification scheme's working. 2.
Article 13 If an exporter is a member of a diamond organisation listed in Annex V, the Community authority may accept as conclusive evidence of lawful import into the Community a signed declaration by the exporter to that effect.
In accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 22(2), the Commission may determine the format of the report in order to facilitate monitoring of the certification scheme's working. 2.
On the basis of these consultations the Commission shall, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 22(2), lay down guidelines for such confirmation.
CHAPTER IV INDUSTRY SELF-REGULATION Article 17 1.
In accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 22(2), the Commission shall list in Annex V each organisation that fulfils the requirements of this Article.
CHAPTER VI GENERAL PROVISIONS Article 19 1.
Based on the information provided under paragraphs 1 and 2 and in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 22(2), the Commission shall maintain in Annex III a list of Community authorities, their location and the tasks entrusted to them. 4.
Community authorities may ask an economic operator to pay a fee for the production, issue and/or validation of a certificate and for a physical inspection in accordance with Articles 4 and 14.
No levies or similar duties shall be charged in relation to such operations. 5.
Article 20 On the basis of the relevant information from the chair of the Kimberley Process and/or participants, the Commission may amend the list of participants and the competent authorities they have designated to issue and validate their certificates in Annex II.
In the performance of its duties under Articles 8, 10, 15, 16, 17 and 19, the Commission shall be assisted by a Committee (hereinafter referred to as %quot%the Committee%quot%). 2.
Where reference is made to this paragraph, Articles 4 and 7 of Decision 1999/468/EC shall apply.
The period laid down in Article 4(3) of Decision 1999/468/EC shall be set at ten working days. 3.
Article 23 The Committee referred to in Article 22 may examine any question concerning the application of this Regulation.
Any natural or legal person providing services directly or indirectly related to the activities covered by Articles 3, 4, 6, 7, 11, 12, 13, 17 or 18 shall exercise due diligence for establishing that the activities for which it provides services comply with the provisions of this Regulation. 2.
Article 25 Information supplied in accordance with this Regulation shall be used only for the purposes for which it was provided.
Article 26 Compliance with this Regulation does not discharge any natural or legal person from compliance, fully or partially, with any other obligation under other Community or national legislation.
Article 27 Each Member State shall determine the sanctions to be imposed where the provisions of this Regulation are infringed.
Pending the adoption, where necessary, of any legislation to this end, the sanctions to be imposed where the provisions of this Regulation are infringed shall, where relevant, be those determined by the Member States in order to give effect to Article 5 of Regulation (EC) No 303/2002.
Article 28 This Regulation shall apply: (a) within the Community territory, including its airspace, or on board any aircraft or any vessel under the jurisdiction of a Member State; (b) to any national of a Member State, and to any legal person, entity, or body which is incorporated or constituted under the law of a Member State.
The application of Articles 3, 4, 5, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 and 18 shall be suspended until the Council decides to apply these Articles on the basis of a proposal from the Commission.
Done at Brussels, 20 December 2002.
SECTION VI Administrative matters MEETINGS 1.
Participants should adopt Rules of Procedure for such meetings at the first Plenary meeting. 3.
ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT 6.
This notification should include the information set forth in paragraph (a) of Section V and be circulated to all Participants within one month. 10.
PARTICIPANT MEASURES 11.
The agenda of annual Plenary meetings is to include an item where information as stipulated in paragraph (a) of Section V is reviewed and Participants can provide further details of their respective systems at the request of the Plenary. 13.
REVIEW MECHANISM 20.
The Certification Scheme should be established at the Ministerial Meeting on the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme for Rough Diamonds in Interlaken on 5 November 2002.
Annex I to ANNEX I CERTIFICATES A.
Annex II to ANNEX I RECOMMENDATIONS AS PROVIDED FOR IN SECTION IV, PARAGRAPH (F) General Recommendations 1.
Participants may consider the utility of complementing and/or enhancing the collection and publication of the statistics identified in Annex III based on the contents of Kimberley Process Certificates. 3.
Participants are encouraged to maintain the information and data required by Section V on a computerised database. 4.
This information should be updated on a regular basis. 6.
The information in paragraph 14 above should be entered into a computerised database, to facilitate the presentation of detailed information relating to the activities of individual rough diamond buyers and sellers.
A exporter should submit a rough diamond shipment to the relevant Exporting Authority. 18.
The Importing Authority should record all details of rough diamond shipments on a computerised database.
In the event that a Participant is unable to publish these statistics it should notify the Chair immediately; (d) to collect and publish these statistics by relying in the first instance on existing national processes and methodologies; (e) to make these statistics available to an intergovernmental body or to another appropriate mechanism identified by the Participants for (1) compilation and publication on a quarterly basis in respect of exports and imports, and (2) on a semi-annual basis in respect of production.
Materials - Dimensions: A4 (210 mm x 297 mm); - Watermarked with visible (European blue) and invisible (yellow/green) UV fibres; - Security Paper: The visible fibres are coloured to match %quot%European Blue%quot%; - UV dull (features in the document stand out clearly when highlighted under a Ultra-violet lamp); - 100 g/m2 paper.
Printing - Rainbow background tint (solvent sensitive) (colour definition: pantone blue-rose); - The %quot%rainbow%quot% effect has a security background that will not visualise when photocopied. - The inks used must be %quot%solvent sensitive%quot% to protect the document against attack from chemicals used to alter infilled text, such as bleach. - 1 Colour background tint (permanent and light fast); - Ensure that a secondary %quot%Rainbow%quot% is printed to prevent the Certificates from exposure to sunlight. - UV invisible working (stars of the EU Flag); - The security printer should apply the correct weight of ink to ensure that the UV feature is invisible in normal light. - EU Flag: Printed gold and European blue; - Intaglio Border; - Tactile Intaglio ink is one of the most important features in the document. - Extra Small Print line reading %quot%Kimberley Process Certificate%quot%; - Latent image: KP; - MELT feature reading %quot%KPCS%quot%; - The document design must incorporate anticopy (%quot%Medallion%quot%) features into the background fine-line printing.
