Council Directive 97/12/EC of 17 March 1997 amending and updating Directive 64/432/EEC on health problems affecting intra-Community trade in bovine animals and swine COUNCIL DIRECTIVE 97/12/EC of 17 March 1997 amending and updating Directive 64/432/EEC on health problems affecting intra-Community trade in bovine animals and swine THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular Article 43 thereof, Having regard to the proposal from the Commission (1), Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament (2), Having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee (3), Whereas important progress has been made in the harmonization of the veterinary field, in particular through the adoption by the Council of Directive 90/425/EEC of 26 June 1990 concerning veterinary and zootechnical checks applicable in intra-Community trade in certain live animals and products with a view to the completion of the internal market (4), Directive 91/496/EEC of 15 July 1991 laying down the principles governing the organization of veterinary checks on animals entering the Community from third countries and amending Directives 89/662/EEC, 90/425/EEC and 90/675/EEC (5), Directive 85/511/EEC of 18 November 1985 introducing Community measures for the control of foot-and-mouth disease (6), and Directive 92/119/EEC of 17 December 1992 introducing general Community measures for the control of certain animal diseases and specific measures relating to swine vesicular disease (7); Whereas the Council in its resolution 94/C 16/01 of 22 December 1993 on the strengthening of veterinary epidemiological surveillance measures (8) agreed to do everything in its power to ensure rapid implementation of the principles of that resolution in the context of the amendment of Directive 64/432/EEC of 26 June 1964 on health problems affecting intra-Community trade in bovine animals and swine (9); Whereas it is necessary, in the light of this situation, to amend Directive 64/432/EEC in particular as regards the period of residence in a Member State prior to movement, rules for trade in animals under 15 days old, rules for control of certain diseases and rules applicable to assembly centres, transporters and dealers; Whereas for the purpose of rapid and accurate tracing of animals for animal health reasons each Member State should create a computerized database which shall record the identity of the animals, all holdings on their territory and the movements of the animals; Whereas Directive 64/432/EEC has been substantially amended on a number of occasions; whereas for the sake of clarity that Directive should be updated, HAS ADOPTED THIS DIRECTIVE: Article 1 As from 1 July 1998 the Articles and the Annexes to Directive 64/432/EEC are hereby replaced by the text annexed to this Directive.
Article 4 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 17 March 1997.
VAN AARTSEN (1) OJ No C 33, 2. 2. 1994, p. 1. (2) OJ No C 128, 9. 5. 1994, p. 105. (3) OJ No C 133, 16. 5. 1994, p. 31. (4) OJ No L 224, 18. 8. 1990, p. 29.
Directive as last amended by Directive 92/118/EEC (OJ No L 62, 15. 3. 1993, p. 49). (5) OJ No L 268, 24. 9. 1991, p. 56.
Directive as last amended by Directive 96/43/EC (OJ No L 162, 1. 7. 1996, p. 1). (6) OJ No L 315, 26. 11. 1995, p. 11.
Directive as last amended by the 1994 Act of Accession. (7) OJ No L 62, 15. 3. 1993, p. 69.
Directive as last amended by the 1994 Act of Accession. (8) OJ No C 16, 19. 1. 1994, p. 1. (9) OJ No 121, 29. 7. 1964, p. 1977/64.
Directive as last amended by Directive 95/25/EC (OJ No L 243, 11. 10. 1995, p. 16).
ANNEX DIRECTIVE 64/432/EEC (amendment and updating of the Articles and the Annexes) Article 1 This Directive shall apply to intra-Community trade in bovine animals and swine with the exception of feral pigs as defined in Article 2 (e) of Directive 80/217/EEC (1) without prejudice to the provisions laid down in Directives 80/215/EEC (2), 85/511/EEC, 88/407/EEC (3), 89/608/EEC (4), 90/425/EEC, 90/429/EEC (5), 90/667EEC (6), 91/496/EEC, 91/628/EEC (7), 92/102/EEC (8), 92/119/EEC and Decision 90/424/EEC (9).
Bovine animals and swine covered by this Directive must: (a) be subjected: - to an identity check, and - to a clinical inspection within 24 hours of departure by an official veterinarian and show no clinical sign of disease; (b) not have been obtained from a holding or an area which for health reasons is subject to prohibition or restriction affecting the species involved in accordance with Community and/or national legislation; (c) be identified as provided for in Directive 92/102/EEC; (d) not be animals which are to be slaughtered and not be restricted under a contagious or infectious disease eradication programme of a Member State or region; (e) comply with the provisions of Articles 4 and 5.
In this case, the certificate in Annex F (including Section D) must be completed by the official veterinarian responsible in the Member State where the animals originate.
The official veterinarian responsible for the assembly centre of transit shall provide certification to the Member State of destination by completing a second certificate, as in Annex F, endorsing it with the serial number of the original and attaching it to the original certificate or to an officially endorsed copy thereof.
Animals for breeding or production must, in addition to the requirements of Articles 3, 4 and 5: - have remained in a single holding of origin for a period of 30 days prior to loading, or since birth in the holding of origin where the animals are less than 30 days old.
However, in the case of animals transiting through an approved assembly centre in the Member State of origin, the period during which the assembly of these animals takes place outside the holding of origin shall not exceed six days, - with regard to animals imported from a third country into a Member State which is not that of ultimate destination, be transported to the Member State of destination as quickly as practicable under cover of a certificate issued under Article 7 of Directive 91/496/EEC, - with regard to animals imported from a third country upon arrival at destination and before any further movements satisfy the requirements of this Directive, and in particular the residency requirement in the first indent, and may not be brought into the herd until the veterinarian responsible for that holding has ascertained that the animals in question are not likely to jeopardize the health status of the holding.
Bovine animals for breeding and production must, in addition to the requirements in Articles 3, 4 and 5: (a) come from an officially tuberculosis-free bovine herd, and in the case of animals more than six weeks old, have reacted negatively to an intradermal tuberculin test carried out during the 30 days prior to leaving the herd of origin, in accordance with the provisions of Annex B point 32 (d).
This intradermal tuberculin test is not required if the animals originate in a Member State or part of a Member State recognized as officially tuberculosis free or in a Member State or part of a Member State with an approved surveillance network; (b) in the case of uncastrated animals which come from an officially brucellosis-free bovine herd and more than 12 months old, have shown a brucella count lower that 30 international units (IU) of agglutination per millilitre when given a serum agglutination test (or any test approved by Standing Veterinary Committee (SVC) procedure following the adoption of the relevant protocols) carried out during the 30 days prior the leaving the herd of origin and complying with the provisions of Annex C Section A.
This serum agglutination test (or any test approved by SVC procedure following the adoption of the relevant protocols) is not required if the animals originate in a Member State or part of a Member State recognized as officially brucellosis free or in a Member State or part of a Member State with an approved surveillance network; (c) come from an officially enzootic-bovine-leukosis-free herd and, if more than 12 months old, have reacted negatively to an individual test carried out during the 30 days prior to leaving the herd of origin and complying with the provisions of Annex D.
The test is not required if the animals originate in a Member State or part of a Member State recognized as officially enzootic-bovine-leukosis free or in a Member State or part of a Member State with an approved surveillance network; (d) at no time between leaving the holding of origin and arriving at destination come into contact with bovine animals which meet only the requirements in paragraph 3. 3.
Bovine animals for slaughter must, in addition to the requirements in Articles 3, 4 and 5, come from herds that are officially tuberculosis free, officially enzootic-bovine-leukosis free and in the case of uncastrated bovines, from herds that are officially brucellosis free.
However, until 31 December 1999, the destination countries may grant to Spain general or limited licences to introduce into their territories animals for slaughter from herds which are not officially free of tuberculosis, enzootic bovine leukosis and brucellosis, provided such animals: - have in the 30 days prior to embarkation undergone the appropriate tests laid down in Annexes B, C and D, with negative results, - are taken on arrival in the country of destination directly to a slaughterhouse and are slaughtered there as soon as possible but at least within 72 hours of arrival, in accordance with animal health requirements.
Article 8 Member States shall ensure that the suspected presence of any of the diseases referred to in Annex E (I) is compulsorily and immediately notifiable to the competent authority.
A Member State which has a compulsory national control programme for one of the contagious diseases listed in Annex E (II) for all or part of its territory may submit the said programme to the Commission, outlining in particular: - the distribution of the disease in the Member State, - the reasons for the programme, taking into consideration the importance of the disease and the programme's likely benefit in relation to its cost, - the geographical area in which the programme will be implemented, - the status categories to be applied to the animal establishments, the standards which must be attained in each category, and the test procedures to be used, - the programme monitoring procedures, the results of which must be supplied at least annually to the Commission, - the action to be taken if, for any reason, an establishment loses its status, - the measures to be taken if the results of the tests carried out in accordance with the provisions of the programme are positive. 2.
The Commission shall examine documentation submitted by Member States.
The competent authority may suspend or withdraw approval in the event of failure to comply with this Article or other appropriate provisions of this Directive or other directives in respect of health restrictions.
Member States shall ensure that transporters give a written undertaking stating in particular that: - all the measures necessary to comply with this Directive shall be taken and in particular the provisions laid down in this Article and relating to the appropriate documentation that must accompany the animals, - the transport of animals is entrusted to staff who possess the necessary ability, professional competence and knowledge. 5.
Member States shall ensure that all premises used by a dealer in connection with his business are registered and issued with an approval number by the competent authority and that they comply with the following conditions at least: (a) they must be under the control of an official veterinarian; (b) they must be located in an area which is not subject to prohibition or restrictions in accordance with the relevant Community legislation or national legislation; (c) they must have: - appropriate facilities of sufficient capacity and in particular inspection facilities and isolation facilities so that all animals can be isolated in the event of an outbreak of a contagious disease, - appropriate facilities for unloading and where necessary adequate housing of a suitable standard for the animals, for watering and feeding them, and for giving them any necessary treatment; these facilities must be easy to clean and disinfect, - an appropriate reception area for litter and manure, - an appropriate system for collecting waste water; (d) be cleaned and disinfected before use, as required by the official veterinarian. 3.
The competent authority may suspend or withdraw approval in the event of failure to comply with this Article or other appropriate provisions of this Directive or other directives in respect of health restrictions.
The surveillance network system must comprise at least the following elements: - the herds, - the owner or any other natural or legal person responsible for the holding, - the approved veterinarian or the official veterinarian responsible for the holding, - the official veterinary service of the Member State, - the official veterinary diagnostic laboratories or any other laboratory approved by the competent authority, - a computer database.
The computer database must contain at least the following information: (1) For each animal: - identification code, - date of birth, - sex, - breed or colour of coat, - identification code of the mother or, in the case of an animal imported from a third country, the identification number given following inspection under Directive 92/102/EEC and corresponding to the identification number of origin, - identification number of the holding where born, - identification numbers of all holdings where the animal has been kept and the dates of each change of holding, - date of death or slaughter. (2) For each holding: - an identification number consisting of not more than 12 figures (apart from the country code), - name and address of the holder. (3) The database must be able to supply the following particulars at any time: - the identification number of all animals of the bovine species present on a holding, or in the case of groups of animals of the porcine species, the registration number of the holding of origin or herd of origin and the number of the health certificate where applicable, - a list of all changes of holding for each animal of the bovine species starting from the holding of birth, or the holding of importation in the case of animals imported from third countries; and for groups of pigs the registration number of the last holding or last herd and for imported animals from third countries the holding of importation.
Member States which have implemented in all their territory a recognized surveillance network system as laid down in this Article shall be authorized not to apply the provision referred to in Article 3 (2) (a), second indent to animal movements referred to by this Directive within their own territory. 7.
Not later than 31 December 1999, acting on the basis of a report from the Commission, accompanied by proposals on which it shall act by a qualified majority, the Council shall review the provisions of this Article in the light of experience with a view to amending and updating them and, if appropriate, extending them to all Member States. 8.
The financing of the surveillance network system will be covered within the framework of the revision of Annex B to Directive 85/73/EEC (10) in accordance with the provisions laid down in Article 8 of Directive 96/43/EC.
The destination and use of such animals after slaughter shall be regulated: - in accordance with the provisions of Directive 64/433/EEC (11), or - in accordance with the provisions of Directive 90/667/EEC where the health status of the animals cannot be established or where they are liable to be a risk to animal health or public health.
Annexes A, D (Chapter I), E and F shall be amended by the Council, acting by a qualified majority on a Commission proposal, in particular with regard to their adaptation to technological and scientific developments.
Annexes B, C and D (Chapter II) shall be amended by the Commission in accordance with the procedures provided for in Article 17.
The Council shall decide on these proposals by a qualified majority before 1 January 1998; (b) before 30 June 1998, the Commission, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 17 and on the basis of the opinion of the Scientific Veterinary Committee, shall update and if necessary amend Annexes B, C and D (Chapter II) to adapt them to scientific developments. 2.
Not later than 31 December 1999, acting on the basis of a report from the Commission, accompanied by suitable proposals on which it shall act by a qualified majority, the Council shall review the provisions of this Directive in the light of experience with a view to amending and updating them so that they comply with the rules laid down for completion of the internal market.
Article 17 Where reference is made to the procedure provided for in this Article, the SVC set up by Decision 68/361/EEC (12) shall act in accordance with the rules laid down in Article 18 of Directive 89/662/EEC (13).
Article 18 Those Member States which have not introduced an approved surveillance network system shall ensure that a computer database complying with the provisions laid down in Article 14 is fully operational from 31 December 1999.
Article 19 The rules laid down in Directive 90/425/EEC shall apply in particular to checks at origin, to the organization of, and follow-up to, the checks to be carried out by the country of destination, and to the safeguard measures to be implemented.
Article 20 This Directive is addressed to the Member States. (1) OJ No L 47, 21. 2. 1980, p. 11.
Directive as last amended by Directive 93/384/EEC (OJ No L 166, 8. 7. 1993, p. 34). (2) OJ No L 47, 21. 2. 1980, p. 4.
Directive as last amended by Directive 91/687/EEC (OJ No L 377, 31. 12. 1991, p. 16). (3) OJ No L 194, 22. 7. 1988, p. 10.
Directive as last amended by Directive 93/60/EEC (OJ No L 186, 28. 7. 1993, p. 28). (4) OJ No L 351, 2. 12. 1989, p. 34. (5) OJ No L 224, 18. 8. 1990, p. 62.
Directive as last amended by the 1994 Act of Accession. (6) OJ No L 363, 27. 12. 1990, p. 51.
Directive as last amended by Directive 92/118/EEC. (7) OJ No L 340, 11. 12. 1991, p. 17.
Directive as last amended by Directive 95/29/EC (OJ No L 148, 30. 6. 1995, p. 52). (8) OJ No L 355, 5. 12. 1992, p. 32.
Directive as last amended by the 1994 Act of Accession. (9) OJ No L 224, 18. 8. 1990, p. 19.
Decision as last amended by Decision 94/370/EC (OJ No L 168, 2. 7. 1994, p. 31). (10) OJ No L 32, 5. 2. 1985, p. 14.
Directive as amended by Directive 96/43/EC (OJ No L 162, 1. 7. 1996, p. 1). (11) OJ No 121, 29. 7. 1964, p. 2012/64.
Directive as last amended by Directive 95/23/EC (OJ No L 243, 11. 10. 1995, p. 7). (12) OJ No L 255, 18. 10. 1968, p. 23. (13) OJ No L 395, 30. 12. 1989, p. 13.
Directive as last amended by Directive 92/118/EEC (OJ No L 62, 15. 3. 1993, p. 49).
This test shall not be necessary in Member States or regions of a Member State where the percentage of bovine herds infected with tuberculosis is less than 0,2 % or if the animal originates in an officially tuberculosis-free herd. 2.
However, the Commission, in accordance with the procedure in Article 17, may, for a Member State or part of a Member State where all the bovine herds are subject to official operations to combat tuberculosis, alter the frequency of the routine tests as follows: - if the percentage of bovine herds infected with tuberculosis is not more than 1 % on average during the two most recent annual supervisory periods, the interval between routine herd tests may be increased to two years, - if the percentage of infected bovine herds is not more than 0,2 % on average during the two most recent biennial supervisory periods, the interval between routine tests may be increased to three years, - if the percentage of infected bovine herds is not more than 0,1 % on average during the two most recent triennial supervisory periods, the interval between routine tests may be increased to four years and/or the age at which animals have to undergo these tests may be increased to 24 months.
A bovine herd is officially brucellosis free if: (a) it contains no bovine animals which have been vaccinated against brucellosis, except females which have been vaccinated at least three years previously; (b) all the bovine animals have been free from clinical signs of brucellosis for at least six months; (c) all the bovine animals over 12 months old have been subjected to one of the following test regimes with negative results in accordance with Annex C: (i) two serum agglutination tests at an interval of more than three months and less than 12 months; (ii) three ring tests at three-monthly intervals followed at least six weeks later by a serum agglutination test; (iii) two buffered brucella antigen tests at an interval of more than three months and less than 12 months; (iv) two micro-agglutination tests at an interval of more than three months and less than 12 months. 2.
A bovine herd will retain officially brucellosis-free status if: (a) one of the following test regimes is carried out annually with negative result in accordance with Annex C: (i) three ring tests carried out at intervals of at least three months; (ii) three milk Elisas carried out at intervals of at least three months; (iii) two ring tests carried out at an interval of at least three months followed at least six weeks later by a serological test; (iv) two milk Elisas carried out at an interval of at least three months followed at least six weeks later by a serological test; (v) two serological tests carried out at an interval of at least three months and not more than six months.
However, the Commission, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 17, may, for a Member State or part of a Member State which is not officially brucellosis free but where all the bovine herds are subject to official operations to combat brucellosis, alter the frequency of the routine tests as follows: - where not more than 1 % of bovine herds are infected, it may be sufficient to carry out each year two ring tests or two milk Elisas at an interval of at least three months, or one serological test, - where at least 99,8 % of bovine herds have been recognized as officially brucellosis free for at least four years, the interval between checks may be extended to two years and the checks must be carried out using one of the serological tests referred to in paragraph 7 (a); (b) all bovine animals entering the herd come from herds of officially brucellosis-free status and, in the case of bovine animals over 12 months old, have shown a brucella count of less than 30 IU of agglutination per ml when given a serum agglutination test in accordance with Annex C during the 30 days prior to introduction into the herd.
However, the serum agglutination test described in point (b) need not be required in Member States, or regions of Member States, where the percentage of bovine herds infected with brucellosis has not exceeded 0,2 % for at least two years and where the animal comes from an official brucellosis-free bovine herd within that Member State or region and has not during transportation come into contact with bovine animals of lesser status; (c) notwithstanding point (b), bovine animals from a brucellosis-free bovine herd may be introduced into an officially brucellosis-free herd if they are at least 18 months old and, if vaccinated against brucellosis, the vaccination was carried out more than a year previously.
Such animals must have shown, in the 30 days prior to introduction, a brucella count lower than 30 IU of agglutination per ml and a negative result when given a complement fixation test, both in accordance with Annex C.
The officially brucellosis-free status of a herd may be suspended or withdrawn if: (a) the conditions detailed in paragraphs 1 and 2 have not been complied with; or (b) as a result of laboratory tests or on clinical grounds one or more bovine animals are suspected of having brucellosis.
Where the animal has been destroyed, the suspension may be lifted if two serum agglutination tests, carried out in accordance with Annex C on all bovine animals in the herd over 12 months old, show a count lower than 30 IU of agglutination per ml.
Where the animal has been isolated, it may be reintroduced into the herd and the status of the herd may be restored, if it subsequently shows a serum agglutination count lower than 30 IU of agglutination per ml and has given a negative result to a complement fixation test, these tests being carried out in accordance with Annex C.
A bovine herd is brucellosis free if it complies with the conditions in 1 (a), (b) and (c), except that: (i) female bovine animals may be vaccinated: - before the age of six months old with live strain 19 vaccine or other vaccines approved under the procedure laid down in Article 17, or - before the age of 15 months old with killed 45/20 adjuvant vaccine which has been officially inspected and recognized; (ii) bovine animals under 30 months old which have been vaccinated with live strain 19 vaccine may give a serum agglutination test result greater than 30 IU but less than 80 IU of agglutination per millilitre provided that, on the complement fixation test, they give a result less than 30 EEC units in the case of females vaccinated less than 12 months previously or less than 20 EEC units in all other cases; (iii) in addition to those tests listed in 1 (c), the following test regimes will also be approved in order to attain brucellosis-free status; (a) two buffered brucella antigen tests carried out at an interval of more than three months and less than 12 months; (b) two micro-agglutination tests carried out at an interval of more than three months and less than 12 months in accordance with the provisions of Annex C. 5.
A bovine herd will retain brucellosis-free status if: (i) it is subject to one of the testing regimes listed in 2 (a); (ii) bovine animals entering the herd comply with the requirements of 2 (b); or - come from herds of brucellosis-free status, and in the case of bovine animals over 12 months old, have shown, in the 30 days prior to introduction into the herd, less than 30 IU of agglutination per ml when given a serum agglutination test and a negative complement fixation test in accordance with Annex C, or - come from herds of brucellosis-free status, are under 30 months old and have been vaccinated with live strain 19 vaccine may give a serum agglutination test result greater than 30 IU but less than 80 IU of agglutination per millilitre provided that, on the complement fixation test, they give a result less than 30 EEC units in the case of females vaccinated less than 12 months previously or less than 20 EEC units in all other cases. 6.
Where the animal has been destroyed, the suspension may be lifted if two serum agglutination tests, carried out in accordance with Annex C on all bovine animals in the holding over 12 months old, show a count lower than 30 IU of agglutination per ml.
Where the animal has been isolated, it may be reintroduced into the herd and the status of the herd may be restored, if it subsequently shows a serum agglutination count lower than 30 IU of agglutination per ml and has given a negative result to a complement fixation test, these tests being carried out in accordance with Annex C.
The Commission may according to the procedure laid down in Article 17 propose that the status be suspended or revoked and require that routine brucellosis testing be carried out in accordance with one of the schedules in paragraph 2. 10.
The EEC standard for PPD of bovine tuberculin is that supplied by the Instituut voor Dierhouderij en Diergezondheid (ID-DLO), Lelystad, The Netherlands. 5.
The EEC standard for bovine HCSM tuberculin is that supplied by the Institut Pasteur, Paris, France. 6.
The EEC standard for avian tuberculin is that supplied by the Veterinary Laboratory Agency, Addlestone, Weybridge, England. 7.
The pH of tuberculins must be between 6,5 and 7,5. 10.
Wytsmanstraat 14, B-1050 Brussels; (c) France: Laboratoire national des médicaments vétérinaires, Fougères; (d) Grand Duchy of Luxembourg: institute of the supplying country; (e) Italy: Istituto superiore di sanità, Rome; (f) Netherlands: Instituut voor Dierhouderij en Diergezondheid (ID-DLO), Lelystad; (g) Denmark: Statens Veterinaere Serumlaboratorium, Copenhagen V; (h) Ireland: institute of the supplying country; (i) United Kingdom: Veterinary Laboratory Agency, Addlestone, Weybridge; (j) Greece: ÊÝíôñï Êôçíéáôñéêþí ÉäñõìÜôùí Íåáðüëåùò 25, 153 10 ÁèÞíá; (k) Spain: Laboratorio de Sanidad y producción animal de Granada; (l) Portugal: Laboratorio Nacional de Investigação Veterinária, Lisbon; (m) Austria: Bundesanstalt für Tierseuchenbekämpfung, Mödling; (n) Finland: Eläinlääkintä - ja elintarvikelaitos, Helsinki-anstalten för veterinärmedicin och livsmedel, Helsingfors; (o) Sweden: Statens veterinärmedicinska anstalt, Uppsala. 13.
The nitrogen is converted into tuberculo-protein content by multiplying by a factor of 6,25. 21.
The EEC standard for bovine HCSM has a potency of 65 000 Community tuberculin units (CTU) per ml and is dispensed in ampoules containing 5 ml of tuberculin. 22.
The EEC standard for bovine PPD has a potency of 50 000 Community tuberculin units (CTU) per mg of PPD and is dispensed lyophilized in ampoules containing 1,8 mg of PPD, i.e. 0,00002 mg PPD has a potency equal to one Community tuberculin unit. 23.
The EEC standard for avian PPD has a potency of 50 000 international units (IU) per mg of the dried material of the purified protein derivative and is dispensed lyophilized in ampoules containing 10 mg of PPD plus 26,3 mg of salts, i.e. 0,0000726 mg of the standard has a potency equal to one international unit. 24.
The bovine tuberculin under test is of acceptable potency if its estimated potency guarantees per bovine dose 2 000 Community tuberculin units (more or less 25 %) in cattle.
Community laboratories designated in accordance with Article 17 will be made responsible for the additional examination of routine issue field tuberculins used in the Member States to ensure that the potency of each of these tuberculins is adequate in relation to the appropriate Community standard tuberculin.
When both avian and bovine tuberculins are injected in the same animal, the site for injection of avian tuberculins shall be about 10 cm from the crest of the neck and the site for the injection of bovine tuberculin about 12,5 cm lower on a line roughly parallel with the line of the shoulder or on different sides of the neck; in young animals in which there is not room to separate the sites sufficiently on one side of the neck, one injection shall be made on each side of the neck at identical sites in the centre of the middle third of the neck. 31.
ANNEX C BRUCELLOSIS A.
The standard agglutinating serum must conform to the standard serum prepared by the Veterinary Laboratory Agency, Addlestone, Weybridge, England.
The degree of brucella agglutination in a serum must be expressed in IU per ml (i.e.
serum X = 80 IU/ml). 4.
Readings of slow serum agglutination in tubes must be taken at 50 or at 75 % agglutination, the antigen used having been titrated under identical conditions against the standard serum. 5.
The agglutinating value of various antigens in relation to standard serum must be within the following limits: - if the reading is made at 50 %: between %gt%NUM%gt%1 %gt%DEN%gt%600 and %gt%NUM%gt%1 %gt%DEN%gt%1 000 , - if the reading is made at 75 %: between %gt%NUM%gt%1 %gt%DEN%gt%500 and %gt%NUM%gt%1 %gt%DEN%gt%750 . 6.
Weybridge strain No 99 and USDA 1119 or any other strain of equivalent sensitivity must be used for preparing the antigen for use in tube agglutination (slow method). 7.
The bacterial emulsion must be made from physiological saline (NaCl 0,85 %amp%permil; phenolized at 0,5 %.
Antigens may be delivered in the concentrated state provided the dilution factor to be used is indicated on the bottle label. 11.
If there is a positive reaction in this tube, the suspect serum contains at least 30 IU of agglutination per ml.
The standard serum must be supplied by the Bundesgesundheitsamt, Berlin. 3.
A serum's level of antibodies which fix the complement must be expressed in EEC sensitizing units (for example: serum X = 60 EEC sensitizing units per ml). 4.
Serums must be inactivated as follows: (a) bovine serum: 56 to 60 °C for 30 to 50 minutes; (b) swine serum: 60 °C for 30 to 50 minutes. 6.
Weybridge strain No 99 or USDA strain 1119 must be used for the preparation of the antigen.
The antigen represents a bacterial suspension in a physiological serum at 0,85 % or in a veronal loading solution. 7.
The antigen may be stained only with haematoxylin or tetrazolium; haematoxylin should preferably be used. 4.
The reaction must be carried out using one of the following methods: - on a column of milk at least 25 mm high and on a volume of milk of 1 ml to which 0,03 ml of one of the standardized stained antigens has been added, - on a column of milk at least 25 mm high and on a volume of milk of 1 ml to which 0,05 ml of one of the standardized stained antigens has been added, - on a volume of milk of 8 ml to which 0,08 ml of one of the standardized stained antigens has been added, - on a column of milk at least 25 mm high and on a volume of milk of 2 ml to which 0,05 ml of one of the standardized stained antigens has been added. 6.
The mixture of milk and antigens must be incubated at 37 °C for not less than 45 minutes and not more than 60 minutes.
The test must be assessed within 15 minutes of removal from the incubator. 7.
The standard serum shall be the second international standard anti-brucella abortus serum which is supplied by the Veterinary Laboratory Agency, Addlestone, Weybridge, England. 2.
The antigen shall be prepared without reference to the cell concentration, but its sensitivity must be standardized in relation to the second international standard anti-brucella abortus serum in such a way that the antigen produces a positive reaction with serum dilution of 1:47,5 and a negative reaction with a dilution of 1:55. 3.
The antigen shall be suspended in buffered brucella antigen diluent at a pH of 3,65 ± 0,5 and may have been stained by the use of rose bengal dye. 4.
Weybridge strain No 99 or USDA 1119 or any other strain of equivalent sensitivity must be used for preparing the antigen. 5.
The official supervision and control of standard serum and antigen shall be carried out by the official bodies listed in A.9 of this Annex. 8.
The antigen shall be delivered ready for use. 9.
After mixing, one drop (0,05 ml) of ABR antigen should be added and the whole again mixed.
The antigen should be standardized in relation to a standard antigen supplied by the body referred to in A.9 (a).
Diluents are made up of 0,85 % physiological saline solution phenolized at 0,5 %. 2.
The antigen shall be prepared as described under A.6, 7 and 8 and shall be titrated as described under A.5.
The standard serum is the same as that under A.1. 4.
The different percentages of agglutination are determined by comparison with antigen checks indicating 0, 25, 50, 75 and 100 % agglutination.
Conditions for use of the Elisa test for bovine brucellosis The Elisa method may be used on a sample of milk or whey taken from the milk collected from a farm with at least 30 % of dairy cows in milk.
Officially enzootic-bovine-leukosis-free herd means a herd in which: (i) there is no evidence, either clinical or as a result of a laboratory test, of any case of enzootic bovine leukosis in the herd and no such case has been confirmed in the previous two years; and (ii) all animals over 24 months of age have reacted negatively during the preceding 12 months to two tests carried out in accordance with this Annex, at an interval of at least four months; or (iii) it meets the requirements of (i) above and is situated in an officially enzootic-bovine-leukosis-free Member State or region.
An individual herd shall retain officially enzootic-bovine-leukosis-free status provided: (i) the condition in A (i) continues to be fulfilled; (ii) any animals introduced into the herd come from an officially enzootic-bovine-leukosis-free herd; (iii) all animals over 24 months of age continue to react negatively to a test carried out in accordance with Chapter II at intervals of three years.
The status shall remain suspended until the following requirements are complied with: 1.
If a single animal in an officially enzootic-bovine-leukosis-free herd has reacted positively to one of the tests referred to in Chapter II: (i) the animal which has reacted positively, and, in the case of a cow, any calf it may have produced, must have left the herd for slaughter under the supervision of the veterinary authorities; (ii) the remaining animals have reacted negatively to a serological test carried out in accordance with Chapter II three months at least after removal of the positive animal and any possible progeny thereof; (iii) an epidemiological inquiry must be conducted and the herds linked epidemiologically to the infected herd must be subjected to the measures laid down in (ii).
Where more than one animal from an officially enzootic-bovine-leukosis-free herd has reacted positively or where infection has been confirmed in a herd: (i) the animals which have reacted positively and, in the case of cows, their calves, must be removed for slaughter under the supervision of the veterinary authorities; (ii) all animals aged over 24 months must react negatively to two tests carried out in accordance with Chapter II at an interval of at least four months and no more than 12 months; (iii) all other animals must, after identification, remain on the holding until they are aged over 24 months and have satisfied the tests referred to in (ii); (iv) an epidemiological inquiry must be conducted, and the herds linked epidemiologically to the infected herd must be subjected to the measures laid down in (ii).
Where the officially enzootic-bovine-leukosis-free status of a herd has been suspended for any other reason, all animals in the herd aged over 24 months must give a negative reaction to a serological test carried out in accordance with Chapter II.
In accordance with the procedure in Article 17, the Commission may propose that a Member State or region of a Member State may become officially enzootic-bovine-leukosis-free if: (a) at least 99,8 % of the bovine herds are officially enzootic bovine leukosis free herds within the meaning of A; or (b) no case of enzootic bovine leukosis has been confirmed in the Member State or region for the past three years and in the case of a Member State, all animals aged over 24 months in at least 10 % of herds, selected randomly, have been tested with negative results in accordance with Chapter II in the previous 24 months or in the case of a region or a Member State, all animals aged over 24 months have undergone a test provided for in Chapter II with negative result.
The antigen to be used in the test must contain bovine leukosis virus glycoproteins.
The antigen must be standardized against a standard serum (El serum) supplied by the State Veterinary Serum Laboratory, Copenhagen. 2.
Laboratorio de sanidad y produccion animal Algete, Madrid; (k) Portugal: Laboratorio Nacional de Investigaçáo Veterinária, Lisbon; (l) Greece: ÊÝíôñï Êôçíéáôñéêþí ÉäñõìÜôùí Íåáðüëåùò 25, 153 10 ÁèÞíá;; (m) Austria: Bundesanstalt für Tierseuchenbekämpfung, Mödling; (n) Finland: Eläinlääkintä-ja elintarvikelaitos, Helsinki/Anstalten för veterinärmedicin och livsmedel, Helsingfors; (o) Sweden: Statens veterinärmedicinska anstalt, Uppsala. 3.
Apart from this standardization, the antigen in use can be calibrated in accordance with B. 4.
The reagents for the test shall consist of: (a) antigen: the antigen must contain specific glycoproteins of enzootic bovine leukosis virus which has been standardized against the official EEC serum; (b) the test serum; (c) known positive control serum; (d) agar gel: 0,8 % agar, 8,5 % NaCl, 0,05 M Tris-buffer pH 7,2; 15 ml of this agar must be introduced into a petri dish of 85 mm diameter, resulting in a depth of 2,6 mm of agar. 5.
Peripheral wells 1 and 4 (see diagram below) are filled with the known positive serum, wells 2, 3, 5 and 6 with the test sera.
This results in the following quantities being obtained: antigen: 32 ìl control serum: 73 ìl test serum: 73 ìl. 8.
Incubation must be for 72 hours at room temperature (20 to 27 °C) in a closed humid chamber. 9.
In inconclusive reactions the test may be repeated and concentrated serum utilized. 10.
Method for antigen standardization Solutions and materials required 1. 40 ml of 1,6 % agarose in 0,05 M Tris/HCl buffer, pH 7,2 with 8,5 % NaCl; 2. 15 ml of a bovine leukosis serum, having antibody only to bovine leukosis virus glycoproteins, diluted 1:10 in 0,05 M Tris/HCl buffer, pH 7,2 with 8,5 % NaCl; 3. 15 ml of a bovine leukosis serum, having antibody only to bovine leukosis virus glycoproteins, diluted 1:5 in 0,05 M Tris/HCl buffer, pH 7,2 with 8,5 % NaCl; 4.
a water bath (56 °C).
Procedure Dissolve the agarose (1,6 %) in the Tris/HCl buffer by carefully heating to 100 °C.
Place in 56 °C water bath for approximately one hour.
Also, place the bovine leukosis serum dilutions in a 56 °C water bath.
Now mix 15 ml of the 56 °C agarose solution with the 15 ml bovine leukosis serum (1:10), quickly shake and pour 15 ml into each of two petri dishes.
Additional instructions 1.
The final concentration of the agarose must be 0,8 %; that of the sera 5 and 10 % respectively. 5.
Region of origin: .
SECTION A Name and address of consignor: . .
Name and address of holding of origin: . . (2) Dealer's registration number: . (1) Health data concerning bovine animals I certify that the animals listed below are from a herd or herds which is officially tuberculosis, brucellosis and leukosis free and that (3): - the herd of origin is situated in a Member State or part of the territory of a Member State which is recognized as being: 1.
officially tuberculosis free: yes/no Commission Decision . . . /. . . /. . . (1) 2.
Race: . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Official identification: . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Date of departure: .
Section A and B certification Official stamp ML01 L109/97 Signature of the official veterinarian: .
SECTION C Approved assembly centre (1) Name of centre: .
Arrival date: .
Departure date: .
Signature/stamp SECTION D Destination of animals: .
Name and address of consignor: . .
Name and address of destination holding: . . (1) Name and address of transit centre: . . (1) Means of transport: .
Approval number: .
disease for . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (species/type) intended for . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Commission Decision . . . /. . . /EC).
Official stamp ML01 L109/97 Signature of the official veterinarian: .
