Council Regulation (EC) No 2093/2002 of 26 November 2002 imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty and collecting definitively the provisional duty imposed on imports of polyester textured filament yarn (PTY) originating in India Council Regulation (EC) No 2093/2002 of 26 November 2002 imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty and collecting definitively the provisional duty imposed on imports of polyester textured filament yarn (PTY) originating in India THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, Having regard to Council Regulation (EC) No 384/96 of 22 December 1995 on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the European Community(1), and in particular Article 9 thereof, Having regard to the proposal submitted by the Commission after consulting the Advisory Committee, Whereas: A.
PROVISIONAL MEASURES (1) The Commission, by Regulation (EC) No 1412/2002(2) (the provisional Regulation) imposed a provisional anti-dumping duty on imports into the Community of polyester textured filament yarn (hereinafter PTY) originating in India. (2) Simultaneously, the Commission also imposed, by Regulation (EC) No 1411/2002(3), a provisional countervailing duty on the imports of PTY originating in India. (3) It is recalled that the investigation period of dumping and injury covered the period from 1 October 2000 to 30 September 2001 (IP).
SUBSEQUENT PROCEDURE (4) Following the imposition of a provisional anti-dumping duty on imports of PTY originating in India, some interested parties submitted comments in writing.
The parties who so requested were also granted an opportunity to be heard orally. (5) The Commission continued to seek and verify all information it deemed necessary for its definitive findings. (6) All parties were informed of the essential facts and considerations on the basis of which it was intended to recommend the imposition of a definitive anti-dumping duty and the definitive collection of amounts secured by way of the provisional duty.
They were also granted a period within which they could make representations subsequent to this disclosure. (7) In addition to the verification visits that were already carried out by the Commission at the provisional stage, the company Unifi Textured yarns Ltd, a Community producer of PTY located in Ireland, was also visited after the imposition of the provisional measures. (8) The oral and written comments submitted by the parties were considered, and, where appropriate, the provisional findings have been modified accordingly.
PRODUCT UNDER CONSIDERATION AND LIKE PRODUCT (9) The Indian exporting producers claimed that the Commission, in its analysis, did not take into consideration the existence of three different market segments for PTY in the Community, which is allegedly evidenced by the significantly different levels of the average sales prices for PTY originating in India, in other third countries and PTY produced by the Community industry.
This was, according to these exporting producers, confirmed by the fact that the Community industry's average price during the IP was more than 50 % higher than the Indian import price, which allegedly gives an indication that PTY produced in the Community is not alike in all respects to PTY originating in India. (10) It should be recalled that it was provisionally established that no significant differences exist in the basic physical characteristics and uses of the different types and qualities of PTY, and that, under these circumstances, all types of PTY should be considered as one single product for the purposes of this proceeding.
The sales price as such is not considered a sufficient element for establishing market segments, particularly in view of the dumping and subsidisation practices.
As to the difference in product types found, which indeed involve different pricing elements, this is taken into account in the undercutting and injury elimination level calculations as explained below under recital 48 of this Regulation. (12) For the above reasons, the argument was rejected and the conclusions that PTY should be considered one single product and the overall analysis be made at this level were accordingly confirmed. (13) In the absence of any further comments, the definition of the product under consideration and of the like product as set out in recitals 11 to 13 of the provisional Regulation are confirmed.
Normal value (15) Following the adoption of provisional measures, the three investigated Indian exporting producers contested, for different reasons, the findings for the determination of cost of production and selling, general and administrative (SG%amp% A) expenses used in the ordinary course of trade test and for the calculation of normal value. (16) One exporting producer alleged that certain clerical errors had incurred concerning the consumption ratio and occasional double-counting of individual raw materials which affected the cost of production of the product concerned. (17) This claim was partly rejected in view of the failure of the exporting producer to submit the relevant information for certain raw materials in good time in order to be verified.
Consequently, this claim was rejected and the original calculation with regard to this point is hereby confirmed. (20) Another exporting producer requested a different method of allocation for the financing costs included in the SG%amp% A expenses.
On this basis, the findings set in recital 32 of the provisional Regulation are confirmed. 3.
Comparison (i) Duty drawback under Duty Entitlement Passbook (DEPB) (27) All Indian exporting producers reiterated their claim that the adjustment requested pursuant to Article 2(10)(b) or alternatively under Article 2(10)(k) of the basic Regulation on the normal value for the benefits received under the DEPB scheme on a post-export basis should have been granted (recital 34 of the provisional Regulation). (28) It should be borne in mind that Article 2(10) chapeau refers to %quot%...
In any event, in recital 66 of Commission's Regulation (EC) No 1411/2002, it was stated that %quot%...
It is also noted that to require the exporting producers to demonstrate that the input raw materials for production in the exporting country contain a duty component did not impose an undue burden of proof.
Consequently the findings set out in recital 37 of the provisional Regulation are confirmed. 4.
Dumping margin (36) In the absence of any comments or new information, the methodology set out in recitals 39 to 44 of the provisional Regulation is confirmed. (37) The comparison of the revised weighted average normal value with the weighted average export price by product type on an ex-factory basis showed the existence of dumping for all investigated exporting producers.
COMMUNITY INDUSTRY (39) Shortly after the imposition of the provisional measures, Dupont SA, one of the cooperating Community producers included in the definition of the Community industry at the provisional stage, definitively ceased the production of PTY in the Community, allegedly because of the low price imports on the Community market.
In view of the definitive nature of this event, it was no longer considered appropriate to treat Dupont SA as being part of the Community industry.
Consequently, for the determination of the definitive findings, it was considered if the Community industry should be defined as consisting of two remaining cooperating Community producers, namely UNIFI Textured yarns Ltd and Sinterama Spa. (40) Therefore it was verified whether these two companies still accounted for a major proportion of the Community production as set out by Article 5(4) of the basic Regulation.
It was found that the cumulated production of the two remaining cooperating Community producers represented 30 % of the total Community production of the like product in the Community during the IP.
This is more than the threshold of 25 % set out in the above mentioned article.
Consequently these two companies constitute the Community industry in full accordance with Article 4(1) of the basic Regulation. (41) The Indian exporting producers argued that the provisional injury analysis was based on the situation of a minor proportion of Community producers only.
They based their allegation on the fact that the complainant Community producers that actually cooperated in the investigation did not represent a major proportion of Community production. (42) That argument is incorrect and was rejected since the two remaining companies represent more than 25 % of the overall Community production.
Community consumption (43) In the absence of any new information, the provisional findings concerning Community consumption as described in recitals 54 to 55 of the provisional Regulation are confirmed.
Throughout the period under consideration Community consumption developed as follows: %gt%TABLE%gt% 2.
Imports from India %gt%TABLE%gt% (44) In absolute terms, the Indian import volume almost tripled during the period under consideration from 7583 tonnes in 1996 to 22683 tonnes during the IP.
It should be noted that in the period 1999 to IP, at a time when the overall Community consumption decreased, the Indian import volume almost doubled. (45) The Indian imports increased their share of the Community market from 2,7 % in 1996 to 6,7 % during the IP.
In parallel to the rapid increase of the import volumes between 1999 and the IP, their market share rose from 3,3 % to 6,7 %, while overall Community consumption decreased. (46) As far as the average import price is concerned, it first increased in the period 1996 to 1997 and then subsequently decreased.
The lowest price level was reached in the year 1999. (47) In the absence of any comments concerning the volume and price of imports from India, the provisional findings as described in recitals 56 to 58 of the provisional Regulation are confirmed. (48) Concerning price undercutting, in view of the above mentioned changes regarding the constitution of the Community industry, the calculations have been revised.
The methodology for the calculation of the undercutting margins, as explained under recitals 59 and 61 of the provisional Regulation, remained however unchanged.
A comparison of overall average prices, as suggested by the Indian exporting producers, would not take into consideration the existence of the various product types and lead to misleading results. (49) On this basis, the revised price undercutting margins, expressed as a percentage of the Community industry's prices, ranged between 23 % and 28 % for the exporting producers who cooperated in the investigation. 3.
Production, production capacity and capacity utilisation (1996 = 100) %gt%TABLE%gt% (51) The Community industry's production volume increased by 18 % during the period under consideration.
Thereafter the production volume followed an unsteady curve and reached, in the IP, a level comparable to the level it reached in 1998. (52) The production capacity was established on the basis of the theoretical maximum hourly output of the machines installed, multiplied by the annual theoretical working hours, considering maintenance and other similar production interruptions. (53) The increase of the production capacity developed in two steps.
The second increase occurred between 1999 and the end of the IP, when production capacity rose by around 14 %.
Stocks (1996 = 100) %gt%TABLE%gt% (54) The decrease of the level of stocks in the period 1996 to 1999 is explained by a significant increase of sales volume, namely as compared to the production volume during the same period.
Thereafter, the level of stocks increased due to the significant decrease of sales volume while production slightly increased.
It reached a peak during the year 1998 (an increase of 21 % as compared to 1996) and then it decreased by 13 % in the subsequent period. (56) During the period 1996 to 1998, the Community industry's sales volume increased less significantly as compared to the evolution of the overall consumption in the Community.
Subsequently, its decrease was more marked than the decrease of the overall demand for PTY observed in the Community between 1998 and the IP.
This explains the fact that market shares constantly decreased. (57) The Indian exporting producers claimed that the Commission should have taken into account the market share evolution of all Community producers during the period under consideration, and not only the market share evolution of the Community industry.
This would have shown an overall increase in market share. (58) It should be noted that according to Article 3(1) of the basic Regulation, the determination of the injury shall be taken to mean material injury to the Community industry.
Therefore, the determination of injury is limited to the overall economic situation of the cooperating Community producers constituting the Community industry as defined in recital 42.
Besides this, the table in recital 86 shows that the market share of the other Community producers also decreased, to a significant extent, during the period under consideration.
Sales price (1996 = 100) %gt%TABLE%gt% (59) The average Community industry sales price remained stable between 1996 and 1998 and decreased by 5 % during the subsequent period.
It is recalled that such a comparison of prices for comparable product types sold in the Community market during the IP established margins of undercutting of 23 % to 28 %.
Profitability (1996 = 100) %gt%TABLE%gt% (60) The Community industry's profitability expressed in terms of return on net sales in the Community market fell sharply over the period under consideration from a positive level in 1996 to a significant negative level during the IP.
Investments and ability to raise capital (1996 = 100) %gt%TABLE%gt% (61) The level of the investments was especially high in the years 1996 and 1998, and is to be related to the increase of production capacity.
Return on investments (1996 = 100) %gt%TABLE%gt% (63) The return on net assets (expressing the profitability as a percentage of the total assets of the Community industry) was considered in this case an adequate indicator. (64) The evolution of the return on net assets was consistent with the profitability figures and showed a clear deterioration of the financial situation of the Community industry, especially subsequently to the year 1998. (65) The Indian exporting producers questioned the level of the return on assets on the basis of the respective price development of PTY and of the main raw material used to produce PTY (namely POY).
It was argued that the average PTY sales price increased more than the purchase price of POY and should therefore result in a positive development of the return on assets. (66) It should firstly be noted that in the period 1999 to IP the average price of PTY and POY developed similarly.
Cash flow (1996 = 100) %gt%TABLE%gt% (67) The figures concerning the cash-flow confirmed the deterioration of the financial situation of the Community industry.
Employment, wages and productivity (1996 = 100) %gt%TABLE%gt% (68) The number of employees increased by 23 % over the period under consideration.
Employment costs increased by 45 % over the same period. (69) Productivity decreased by 5 % during the period under consideration.
Thereafter, between 1999 and the IP, in view of the increase of Indian dumped imports, the situation of the Community industry became precarious again.
Actual margins of dumping (71) The definitive margins of dumping are clearly significant.
The precarious situation of the Community industry became apparent in the period subsequent to the year 1998.
Indeed, between 1996 and 1998 the Community industry production volume increased (+ 17 %) and capacity utilisation rate was high, sales volume also increased (+ 21 %) while sales prices remained stable and the industry was still profitable (in terms of return on net turnover, return on total assets and cash flow position).
This positive development is explained by the combined positive effect of the introduction of anti-dumping measures against Indonesia, Thailand, Taiwan and Malaysia, restoring fair trade on the Community market, and by the expansion of the Community consumption of PTY. (73) After the year 1998, the situation of the Community industry started to significantly deteriorate.
Even if the production volume remained stable, the production capacity utilisation decreased by seven percentage points, the sales volume decreased by 13 %, while sales prices also decreased by 5 %.
Consequently the Community industry started to incur significant losses and the level of investments was also affected. (74) The Indian exporting producers argued that some of the above detailed injury indicators developed positively during the period under consideration and accordingly did not point towards injury. (75) It should firstly be noted that, as per Article 3(5) of the basic Regulation, none of the economic factors listed in this article necessarily give decisive guidance as to whether the Community industry suffers material injury.
Introduction (76) In accordance with Article 3(6) of the basic Regulation, it was reexamined whether the material injury suffered by the Community industry, as defined in recital 42, had been caused by the dumped imports from India.
In accordance with Article 3(7) of the basic Regulation, the Commission also reexamined other known factors which might have injured the Community industry in order to ensure that any injury caused by those factors was not wrongly attributed to the dumped imports. 2.
Effect of the dumped imports (77) Between 1996 and the IP, the volume of imports originating in India tripled from 7583 tonnes to 22683 tonnes.
They increased in two steps: a first time between 1996 and 1998, raising by 138 %, and then in the period from 1999 to IP, raising by 92 %, from 11824 tonnes to 22683 tonnes, i.e.
It should be noted that, while the first increase took place while the Community market was still expanding, the second one occurred at a time when the Community consumption faced a significant downturn (- 14000 tonnes).
During the same period, i.e.
The Indian market share increased from 2,7 % in 1996 to 6,7 % in the IP.
This raise occurred in two phases: between 1996 and 1998, from 2,7 % to 4,9 %, and between 1999 and the IP, from 3,3 % to 6,7 %. (79) In the year 1999, the Indian import price reached the low level of EUR 1,4 per tonne on average, a decrease of around 17 % as compared to the previous year and of 26 % as compared to 1996.
By means of this low price policy they were in a position to increase their sales volume and regain their lost market shares in 2000 and the IP.
The prices then reached their 1998 level, but were still on average lower than their level in the years 1996 and 1997. (80) It should be recalled that, during the IP, significant undercutting margins have been established, ranging between 23 % and 28 %.
Indeed, with a market share of 6,7 % during the IP, such a level of price undercutting certainly had a significant negative impact on this transparent and depressed Community market, and for a product which is extremely price sensitive. (81) At the same time, the Community industry experienced a market share decrease of around one percentage point between 1996 and 1998, and of another percentage point between 1999 and the IP.
It indeed had to lower its prices by 7 % in the year 1999 as compared to 1998, in order to maintain its position on the market.
It should be recalled that during the same year, the Indian import prices decreased by 17 %.
This coincides with the period when Indian prices significantly decreased and import volume started to significantly increase, i.e.
Effect of all other known factors Imports originating in other third countries (83) Since no additional information or comments have been brought forward by any interested party, the conclusion drawn in recital 91 of the provisional Regulation that the imports originating in Indonesia and Taiwan, are also likely to have contributed to the injury suffered by the Community industry during the IP is therefore confirmed. (84) In this very transparent market, significant imports of low priced PTY from any country of origin are likely to cause injury to the Community industry to a degree that can be considered material.
Should the impact of Indian imports be however quantified as compared to the impact of the imports from Indonesia and Taiwan, one should consider the significant increase of Indian imports in the period 1999 to IP, both in absolute and relative terms, as well as the Indian average import price during the IP which was, on average, lower that the Indonesian and Taiwanese imports prices, namely considering that these imports are partly subject to anti-dumping duties.
Under these circumstances, it can be concluded that the impact of the Indian imports was certainly not less important than the impact of the Indonesian and Taiwanese imports, and that therefore there was a genuine and substantial link between the imports from India and the precarious situation of the Community industry. (85) As to imports from remaining third countries, in absence of any comments, the provisional conclusion that these imports cannot be considered as having had injurious effects on the Community industry is also confirmed.
Other Community producers (86) The table below, based on information received by certain companies and contained in the complaint, shows the evolution of sales volume and market share of the other Community producers. %gt%TABLE%gt% (87) From the above data, it can be seen that the other Community producers' sales volume of PTY in the period 1996 to IP significantly decreased both in absolute and relative terms.
In view of this positive development, the Community industry expanded its production capacity a second time between 1999 and the IP.
The increase amounted to around 10000 tonnes.
This time, however, the Community industry could not increase its production and sales volume in order to fill its newly installed capacity, and therefore the capacity utilisation rate significantly decreased.
As the PTY industry is capital intensive and that fixed costs are accordingly significant, the decrease of the production and sales volume in the period 1999 to IP had a direct negative impact on the financial situation of the Community industry.
It is noted that the price for the main raw material remained stable in the same period. (91) The capacity increase in the period 1999 to IP, therefore, indeed hat a negative impact on the financial situation of the Community industry.
Even though the Community consumption decreased by around 14000 tonnes during the period 1999 to IP, the Indian import volume of PTY increased by around 10000 tonnes during the same period, through an aggressive price behaviour.
Indeed, Indian import prices of PTY were significantly undercutting the Community industry prices during the IP and the relevant import volume increased to such an extent that the Community industry was not able to increase, or even to limit its decreasing sales and production volume and consequently limit the negative impact of the installed over-capacity. (92) It is considered that if the costs related to the investments, and therefore the increase of the installed capacity, indeed had a negative impact on the financial situation of the Community industry in the period 1999 to IP, this impact was however exacerbated by the fact that the Community industry had to decrease its sales, production volume and sales prices.
This was in turn due to the pressure of the low prices of the Indian imports, the volume of which more than doubled in the same period, when the overall Community consumption decreased. (93) It is therefore clear that in the absence of dumped imports from India, the Community industry would have been able to maintain its sales prices at the level of 1998 and to increase its volume of production and sales.
Contraction in demand (94) Whilst Community consumption increased overall during the period under consideration, it decreased in the period 1999 to IP.
Secondly, during the same period, imports originating in India more than doubled.
Global economic downturn (95) The Indian exporting producers claimed that the Community industry has suffered injury due to the world global economic downturn since the end of 2000, and that this should be taken into consideration and quantified for the purpose of the causation analysis. (96) It should firstly be noted that the above analysis shows that the economic situation of the Community industry already started to deteriorate before the end of the year 2000.
As explained above, the Community industry sales volume decreased proportionally more than the Community consumption.
Export performances of the Community industry (98) The Indian exporting producers argued that the loss of the Community industry's market share is due to the fact that it has opted for export sales rather than domestic sales.
In the absence of any further comments under these headings, the provisional conclusions, under recitals 96 to 98 of the provisional Regulation are confirmed.
Price of raw material (99) No comments have been received in this respect, and therefore the conclusions under recitals 93 to 95 of the provisional Regulation, that the price of the raw material of the Community industry can not be responsible for the injury being suffered by the Community industry, are confirmed.
Other arguments raised by the interested parties (100) The Indian exporting producers argued that the decrease of the production volume during the IP is to be attributed to a deliberate shutdown of a plant of one of the two Community producers constituting the Community industry.
Conclusion on causation (101) In conclusion, it is confirmed that the dumped imports have had injurious effects on the Community industry, in particular in the period 1999 to IP, the situation of which is characterised by a decreasing sales volume, depressed sales prices, loss of market share and significant deterioration of the financial situation, notably in terms of profitability and return on investments.
Indeed, during the same period the Indian import volume significantly increased both in absolute and relative terms at prices which were found to be significantly undercutting the Community industry price. (102) The following other known factors were examined: imports originating in other third countries, other Community producers sales, investments of the Community industry, contraction in demand, global economic downturn, price of raw material and export performances of the Community industry.
The effect of these factors was worsened the significant negative effect on the situation of the Community industry caused by the surge of imports originating in India, which, taken in isolation, have also caused a material injury to the Community industry. (103) Given the above analysis, which has properly distinguished and separated the effects of all the known factors from each other and their effect on the situation of the Community industry from the injurious effects of the dumped imports, and after having ensured that the injury caused by other factors is not attributed to the dumped imports, it is hereby confirmed that these other factors as such do not reverse the fact that there exists a genuine and substantial causal link between the dumped imports and the material injury found.
Community industry and other Community producers (105) As explained in the provisional Regulation, there is no reason to doubt the viability and the competitiveness of the Community industry in a situation where normal market conditions apply.
Indeed, unfair trade on the Community market already resulted in the shutdown of Dupont SA, that could not survive the current depressed situation of the market.
Should measures not be imposed, it could not be excluded that other Community producers would experience the same development. (106) It should be recalled that, despite the fact that only two Community producers were in a position to cooperate to the investigation, the proceeding was fully supported by Community producers representing around 75 % of the Community production.
As explained above, the other Community producers also saw their market share and sales volume on the Community market eroding. (107) The provisional conclusions that it would be in the interest of the Community industry and of the other Community producers to impose measures, are therefore confirmed. 2.
This is reinforced by the fact that, because of the unfair trade conditions prevailing on the Community market, one Community producer recently had to shutdown its plant in the Community. (113) To the contrary, should definitive measures not be imposed, the continued decline in the profitability of the Community industry observed during the period under consideration will be further jeopardised with the risk of further PTY plant closures in the Community. (114) In view of the above, the Commission concluded that no compelling reasons exist not to impose definitive anti-dumping measures.
DEFINITIVE ANTI-DUMPING MEASURES 1.
Injury elimination level (115) Based on the methodology explained in recitals 122 to 125 of the provisional Regulation, an injury elimination level was calculated for the purposes of establishing the level of measures to be definitively imposed. (116) The Indian exporting producers claimed that the level of profit used in order to calculate the non-injurious price was arbitrarily chosen, because it was based on the highest profit margin observed during the period under consideration. (117) It should be recalled that the level of profit considered for the calculation of the non-injurious price should correspond to a level that the Community industry could reasonably expect to achieve in the absence of injurious dumping.
The year 1998 was considered a reasonable choice of reference since it was deemed that, during that year, the imports from India had not yet had a depressing effect on the Community industry's prices and that the imports from the other countries subject to measures were already at a level similar to that prevailing in the IP.
The fact that one Community producer had to be excluded from the definition of the Community industry, and therefore new profitability figures were established for the period under consideration, does not alter the provisional findings that such an industry, in fair market conditions, could reasonably expect to reach a level of profit of 8 % in absence of dumped imports. (118) Considering the above, the methodology used for establishing the injury elimination level as described in recitals 122 to 125 of the provisional Regulation was confirmed. (119) As above in relation to price undercutting margins, the injury margins were likewise reviewed and amended. 2.
Therefore, the definitive anti-dumping duty should be adjusted to reflect the actual dumping margin remaining after the imposition of the definitive countervailing duty offsetting the effect of the export subsidies. (123) On the basis of the above, the definitive duties are as follows: %gt%TABLE%gt% (124) The individual company anti-dumping duty rates specified in this Regulation were established on the basis of the findings of the present investigation.
However, in order to ensure equal treatment for any genuine new Indian exporting producer and the cooperating companies not included in the sample, it is considered that provision should be made for the weighted average duty imposed on the latter companies to be applied to any new Indian exporting producer who would otherwise be entitled to an individual duty pursuant to Article 11(4) of the basic Regulation. 3.
A definitive anti-dumping duty is hereby imposed on imports of polyester textured filament yarn falling within CN code 5402 33 00 originating in India. 2.
Article 2 Where any new exporting producer in India provides sufficient evidence to the Commission that: - it did not export to the Community the product described in Article 1(1) during the investigation period (1 October 2000 to 30 September 2001), - it is not related to any of the exporters or producers in India which are subject to the anti-dumping measures imposed by this Regulation, - it has actually exported to the Community the product concerned after the investigation period on which the measures are based, or it has entered into an irrevocable contractual obligation to export a significant quantity to the Community, the Council, acting by simple majority on a proposal submitted by the Commission after consulting the Advisory Committee, may amend Article 1(2) by adding the new exporting producer to the companies subject to the weighted average duty rate of 3,7 % listed in that Article.
Article 3 Amounts secured by way of provisional anti-dumping duty pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 1412/2002 on imports of polyester textured filament yarn falling within CN code 5402 33 00 originating in India shall be definitively collected at the rate of the duty definitively imposed by the present Regulation.
Amounts secured in excess of the rates of the definitive anti-dumping duty shall be released.
Done at Brussels, 26 November 2002.
