The objectives and details of the relevant procedures shall be as set out in Annex II.%quot%; 4.
The specific arrangements for on-the-spot coordination shall be the subject of guidelines to be approved by the Committee provided for in Article 11. 2.
Financing plans shall be based on the indicative programmes referred to in paragraph 3 and, as a rule, be adopted annually.
The Commission shall take measures in accordance with the procedure set out in Article 11(2), in order to provide for adequate protection of the financial interests of the European Community in conformity with Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2988/95(9).%quot%; (d) in paragraph 4, a second subparagraph shall be inserted as follows:%quot%Risk capital shall be used primarily to strengthen the private sector, and in particular to reinforce the financial sector in MEDA countries.
Article 9 shall be replaced by the following: %quot%Article 9 1.
The strategy papers, indicative programmes, financing plans and any amendment to them shall be adopted by the Commission in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 11(2). 3.
Financing decisions that are not covered by the national or regional financing plans shall be adopted individually by the Commission in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 11(2), subject to paragraph 5 of this Article. 4.
The Commission shall inform the Committee referred to in Article 11 immediately of any such decisions. 5.
Financing decisions not exceeding EUR 2000000 shall be adopted by the Commission if they form part of an overall allocation.
The further procedure laid down in Article 13 shall be applied in relation to risk capital.%quot%; 10.
A representative of the Bank shall take part in the proceedings without a right to vote. 2.
Where reference is made to this paragraph, Articles 4 and 7 of Decision 1999/468/EC shall apply. 3.
The period laid down in Article 4(3) of Decision 1999/468/EC shall be set at three months.%quot%; (b) paragraph 5 shall be replaced by the following: %quot%5.
The Bank shall communicate to the Commission the proposed project relating to interest-rate subsidies either for incorporation into a financing plan or for adoption as an individual financing decision, as provided for in Article 9(2) and (3) respectively.
The Commission shall verify the conformity of the proposed project with this Regulation and the relevant decisions taken thereunder. 2.
The Commission shall communicate to the Bank each decision relating to interest rate subsidies, whether adopted as a financing plan or as an individual financing decision. 3.
In accordance with the decision referred to in paragraph 2, the Bank, where the decision grants the interest rate subsidy, may grant the corresponding loan with the said subsidy, subject to a positive opinion of the Committee referred to in Article 14 and of the Commission representative therein. 4.
The Bank shall inform the Commission accordingly.%quot%; 13.
The Bank shall communicate to the Commission the proposed project relating to risk capital in the form of a risk capital facility for incorporation into a regional financing plan.
The Commission shall verify the conformity of the terms of this project with this Regulation and the relevant decisions taken thereunder. 2.
The Commission shall communicate to the Bank each decision adopted pursuant to Article 9(2) on a regional financing plan including risk capital for its implementation. 3.
On this basis, the Bank shall submit to the Committee referred to in Article 14, for its opinion, individual operations implementing the risk capital project envisaged within a regional financing plan.
The Commission representative shall convey to that Committee the position of his institution on the operation concerned and in particular on its conformity with the regional financing plan. 4.
The Commission shall, together with the Bank, examine progress achieved in implementing the measures undertaken pursuant to this Regulation and shall submit to the European Parliament and the Council an annual report, no later than 30 June of the following year.
The Commission shall inform the Member States each year of the budgetary execution of the previous year, in terms of commitments and payments. 3.
Done at Brussels, 27 November 2000.
