Article 2 This Decision shall enter into force on 1 July 2003.
Done at Luxembourg, 18 June 2003.
Drys (1) OJ C 127, 29.5.2003, p. 33. (2) OJ L 257, 11.10.2000, p. 28.
ANNEX %quot%ANNEX STATUTES OF THE ECONOMIC POLICY COMMITTEE PART I TASKS OF THE COMMITTEE Article 1 1.
Without prejudice to Articles 114 and 207 of the Treaty, the Economic Policy Committee (hereinafter referred to as the Committee), shall contribute to the preparation of the work of the Council of coordinating the economic policies of the Member States and of the Community and provide advice to the Commission and the Council. 2.
Without prejudice to Articles 130 and 207 of the Treaty, the Committee shall contribute to the work of the Council under the Employment Title of the Treaty. 5.
The Committee shall be consulted by the Commission on the maximum rate of increase for non-compulsory expenditure of the general budget of the European Union as provided for in Article 272 of the Treaty.
Article 2 The Committee shall deliver opinions at the request of the Council, the Commission or the Economic and Financial Committee or on its own initiative.
Article 3 In the fulfilment of its tasks the Committee shall work in close relation with the Economic and Financial Committee when reporting to the Council.
PART II COMPOSITION Article 4 1.
The Member States, the Commission and the European Central Bank shall each appoint two members of the Committee. 2.
Article 5 Members of the Committee shall be guided, in the performance of their duties, by the general interests of the Community.
PART III PRESIDENT AND SECRETARIAT Article 6 1.
Article 7 In the event of being unable to fulfil his/her duties, the president shall be replaced by one of the vice-presidents of the Committee.
The secretary shall be appointed by the Commission after consultation of the Committee.
The secretary and his/her staff shall act on the instructions of the Committee when carrying out their responsibilities to the Committee. 2.
PART IV PROCEEDINGS Article 9 Opinions or reports shall be adopted by a majority of members if a vote is requested.
Article 11 The Committee may entrust the study of specific questions to subcommittees or working parties.
The presidency of such groups shall be assumed by a member of the Committee, appointed by the Committee.
Article 12 The Committee, the subcommittees or working parties may invite experts to assist them.
Article 13 The Committee shall be convened by the president on his/her own initiative, or at the request of the Council, the Commission or at least five members.
As a rule the president shall represent the Committee; in particular the president may be authorised by the Committee to report on discussions and deliver oral comments on opinions and reports prepared by the Committee. 2.
Article 16 The Committee shall adopt its own procedural arrangements.%quot%
