CHAPTER II GENERAL REQUIREMENTS Article 3 Cooperation of Member States 1.
Without prejudice to Commission responsibilities, Member States shall cooperate with the Commission in the accomplishment of its inspection tasks.
Article 4 Exercise of Commission powers 1.
Article 5 Participation of national auditors in Commission inspections 1.
A national auditor shall not participate in Commission inspections in the Member State where he is employed. 3.
Member States shall provide the Commission with a list of national auditors on whom the Commission may call to participate in a Commission inspection.
The Commission shall communicate to the Committee the lists referred to in paragraph 3. 5.
Article 6 Qualification criteria for Commission inspectors 1.
The Commission shall ensure that Commission inspectors fulfil the criteria set out in paragraph 1 and that they have sufficient theoretical and practical experience.
CHAPTER III PROCEDURES FOR THE CONDUCT OF COMMISSION INSPECTIONS Article 7 Notification of inspections 1.
Article 8 Preparation of inspections 1.
Article 9 Conduct of inspections 1.
Article 10 Inspection report 1.
Article 11 Answer of the appropriate authority Within three months of the date of dispatch of an inspection report, the appropriate authority shall submit in writing to the Commission an answer to the report which: (a) addresses the findings and recommendations; (b) provides an action plan, specifying actions and deadlines, to remedy any identified deficiencies.
Article 12 Action by the Commission The Commission may take any of the following steps in the event of deficiencies and following receipt of the answer of the appropriate authority: (a) submit comments to the appropriate authority or request further explanation to clarify all or part of the answer; (b) conduct a follow-up to check the implementation of remedial actions, the minimum notice for such a follow-up being two weeks; (c) initiate an infringement procedure in respect of the Member State concerned.
CHAPTER IV GENERAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS Article 13 Sensitive information Without prejudice to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No 2320/2002, the Commission shall treat sensitive inspection-related materials as classified information.
Article 14 Commission inspection programme 1.
Article 15 Information to appropriate authorities of serious deficiencies If an inspection discloses a serious deficiency which is deemed to have significant impact on the overall level of civil aviation security in the Community, the Commission shall immediately inform the appropriate authorities.
Article 16 Coordination with intergovernmental organisations When planning its inspection programme, the Commission shall take into consideration the planned or recently undertaken security audits of intergovernmental organisations in order to ensure the overall effectiveness of the various security inspection and audit activities.
Article 17 Review By 31 July 2005 and regularly thereafter the Commission shall review its system of inspections, and in particular the effectiveness of that system and its consistency with the activities of intergovernmental organisations in this field.
Article 18 Entry into force This Regulation shall enter into force on the 20th day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Done at Brussels, 22 August 2003.
For the Commission Loyola De Palacio Vice-President (1) OJ L 355, 30.12.2002, p. 1. (2) OJ L 169, 8.7.2003, p. 44.
