Council Regulation (EC) No 299/2001 of 12 February 2001 imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty on imports of potassium permanganate originating in the People's Republic of China Council Regulation (EC) No 299/2001 of 12 February 2001 imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty on imports of potassium permanganate originating in the People's Republic of China THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, Having regard to Council Regulation (EC) No 384/96 of 22 December 1995 on protection against dumped imports from countries not Members of the European Community(1), and in particular, Article 11(2) and (6) thereof, Having regard to the proposal submitted by the Commission, after consulting the Advisory Committee, Whereas: 1.
PREVIOUS INVESTIGATIONS 1.1.
Investigations concerning the People's Republic of China (1) By Regulation (EEC) No 1531/88(2) the Council imposed a definitive anti-dumping duty on imports of potassium permanganate originating in the People's Republic of China (%quot%China%quot%).
The amount of the duty imposed was equal to either the amount by which the free-at-Community-frontier price per kilogram net, before duty, was less than ECU 2,25, or 20 % of that price, whichever was higher. (2) In 1994, following a review under Articles 14(1) and 15(3) of Regulation (EEC) No 2423/88(3), the Council, by Regulation (EC) No 2819/94(4), imposed a definitive anti-dumping duty on imports of potassium permanganate originating in China of ECU 1,26 per kg. 1.2.
Investigations concerning other countries (3) An anti-dumping investigation on potassium permanganate imports originating in India and the Ukraine was initiated in April 1997.
Definitive anti-dumping duties of 5,6 % and 36,2 % respectively were imposed on imports from these countries by Regulation (EC) No 1507/98(5). 2.
PRESENT INVESTIGATION 2.1.
Request for review (4) In April 1999, the Commission published a notice of impending expiry(6) of the anti-dumping measures in force on imports of potassium permanganate originating in China.
Period of investigation (7) The investigation of a likelihood of a continuation and recurrence of dumping covered the period from 1 October 1998 to 30 September 1999 (%quot%IP%quot%).
The examination of trends relevant in the context of the aforementioned recurrence of injury covered the period from 1995 up to the end of the IP (%quot%the period considered%quot%). 2.4.
Verification of information received (12) All information deemed necessary was sought and verified for the purpose of deciding the likelihood of a continuation or recurrence of dumping and injury as well as a determination of the Community interest.
A verification visit was carried out at the premises of the sole Community producer, Industrial Química del Nalón SA-IQN, Oviedo, Spain. (13) Interested parties were given the opportunity to request a hearing, but no such request was made. 3.
The product is manufactured in three grades: technical (97 % to 98 % purity of KMnO4, in the form of crystalline powder), free flowing (containing an anti-caking agent) and pharmaceutical (minimum 99 % purity of KMnO4 in the form of crystals).
CONTINUATION OR RECURRENCE OF DUMPING 4.1.
General issues (17) Eurostat statistics show a very low level of imports of potassium permanganate from China, of 30 tonnes in 1998 and 23 tonnes during the IP.
However, Chinese export statistics (recital 44) show a much higher volume of 450 tonnes in 1998 and in the previous year.
The likelihood of future dumping was assessed in relation to exports from the country concerned to third countries and the question of volume was addressed by examining all relevant market developments, both domestic and export. (20) As the purpose of this type of review is to assess the likelihood of dumping should measures be removed, it was not considered necessary or appropriate to calculate dumping margins or allowances with the precision that would be necessary in an anti-dumping investigation carried out under Article 5 of the basic Regulation.
Likelihood of a continuation of dumping 4.2.1.
This was considered to be the case as they were made in significant quantities, measured against the average volume of exports recorded as sold into the Community by the exporting producers in China during the IP. (27) It was also established that the relevant sales could be considered as having been made in the ordinary course of trade, having compared the sales prices and costs of production for each grade of potassium permanganate sold by the US producer. (28) Normal value was thus established as the weighted average of the prices of all grades of potassium permanganate sold on the US domestic market in the first quarter of 1999 by the cooperating US producer.
Dumping margin (37) The analysis performed shows that exports to the Community have been dumped at a substantial margin during the IP.
LIKELIHOOD OF THE RECURRENCE OF DUMPING 5.1.
Likelihood of recurrence of dumping (43) Taking into account all the sources of information available during the proceeding, it can be seen that Chinese producers have continued to dump the product concerned into the Community market in the period after the present measures were imposed. (44) Moreover, Chinese exports to third markets have also consistently been at very low and dumped prices, as confirmed by comparing the Chinese export statistics and the normal value determinations in this case: %gt%TABLE%gt% Source: Chinese export statistics (45) In these circumstances there is every reason to believe that any increased volumes exported from China to the Community would be at dumped prices. 5.3.
Conclusion (46) The relatively stable consumption on the world market, the increase over the past five years of the level of unused capacities and the limited access to other key export markets indicate that there is a likelihood that the repeal of the current anti-dumping measures against imports of the product concerned from China would lead to a recurrence of significant volumes of dumped exports on to the Community market. (47) In particular, the examination of dumping with regard to sales to the European Community during the IP and of sales to third country markets outside the European Community, showed a pattern of continued dumping by the Chinese exporters as well as evidence that any increased volume of exports from China would be at dumped prices. 6.
This producer (Industrial Química del Nalón SA-IQN) represents 100 % of potassium permanganate produced in the Community during the IP and constitutes, therefore, the %quot%Community industry%quot% pursuant to Article 4(1) of the basic Regulation. 7.
Consumption during the IP was close to that of 1996, following dips during 1997 and 1998. 7.2.
Volume and prices of imports from the country concerned (50) Data from Eurostat suggests that imports from China remained low throughout the period considered, due to the existence of anti-dumping measures.
Eurostat figures show that during the IP, Chinese (duty-free) prices undercut Community producer prices by an average of 38 %.
Similar data for Taiwan shows only slightly lower undercutting by an average of 33 %. (52) The price of Chinese origin potassium permanganate is well below both the average market price and the price of the Community industry.
Only in 1997 were prices close to those of the Community producer, but since then there has been a growing disparity.
Having come into the Community market in 1997, Taiwanese prices have consistently undercut the Community producer by around 25 %.
Imports from other third countries 7.3.1.
Volumes and market share (53) Total imports from other third countries increased by 54 % between 1995 and the IP, although imports from the Ukraine and India have decreased considerably due to the imposition of anti-dumping duties against these countries by Regulation (EC) No 1507/98(9).
In the case of the Czech Republic, exports to the Community account for 69 % of its total capacity, estimated at around 1000 tonnes per annum.
Sales prices (54) The USA and the Czech Republic are the main importers into the Community against whom no anti-dumping measures are currently in place.
The US prices are at a level close to, but slightly higher, than those of the Community producer.
Market share and sales volume (55) The Community industry represents 100 % of Community production in the IP, as there is only one Community producer of potassium permanganate.
However, this company has not been considered in analysing the situation of the Community industry, except for the indicator on employment. (56) The volume of sales of the Community industry decreased by 21 %, during the period considered, whilst its market share fell by 2 %.
A more meaningful and representative analysis would be to take the period from 1996 to the IP.
Over this period, whilst both the volume of sales and the Community industry's market share have increased, there has been a reduction in both indicators during the IP from highs in 1997 and 1998. 7.4.2.
Production, capacity and capacity utilisation (58) Capacity utilisation of the Community industry increased by 15 % over the period considered.
This is explained by the imposition of anti-dumping measures against India and the Ukraine in 1998, following which there was a marked recovery. 7.4.8.
The decrease in consumption and sales volumes during the period considered should be seen in the light of the fact that the 1995 base level was inflated due to a drought in Spain.
However, the cost of production of potassium permanganate increased. (68) Taken together, the indicators point to a situation where anti-dumping measures against China, India, and Ukraine have allowed the Community industry to compete on a fair footing.
Community industry (69) The situation of the Community industry is outlined in recitals 55 to 68. 8.2.
Whilst China had only a small share of the Community market during the IP, its excess capacity alone could satisfy total Community consumption several times over. 8.3.
Conclusion (72) It was concluded in recitals 46 and 47 that there was a likelihood of a return to the dumping in significant quantities of Chinese potassium permanganate onto the Community market were anti-dumping measure allowed to lapse.
COMMUNITY INTEREST 9.1.
Introduction (74) Pursuant to Article 21 of the basic Regulation, it was examined whether a prolongation of the existing anti-dumping measures would be against the interest of the Community as a whole.
Improvements in productivity (recital 61) and capacity utilisation (recital 58), together with a return to profitability during the IP have shown that, in a market where measures exist to counteract injurious dumping, it is able to compete fully and effectively on the Community market. (80) However, if measures against injurious dumping expire, the Community market would be open to large volumes of dumped imports from China.
Conclusion on Community interest (83) The expiry of measures would have a serious impact on the economic prospects of the Community industry, whereas importers would only be affected, if measures were extended, by continuing marginal increases in costs.
A definitive anti-dumping duty is hereby imposed on imports of potassium permanganate, falling within CN code 2841 61 00, originating in the People's Republic of China. 2.
Article 2 This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Done at Brussels, 12 February 2001.
