This Regulation sets out the conditions for action by the customs authorities when goods are suspected of infringing an intellectual property right in the following situations: (a) when they are entered for release for free circulation, export or re-export in accordance with Article 61 of Council Regulation (EC) No 2913/92 of 12 October 1992 establishing the Community Customs Code(4); (b) when they are found during checks on goods entering or leaving the Community customs territory in accordance with Articles 37 and 183 of Regulation (EEC) No 2913/92, placed under a suspensive procedure within the meaning of Article 84(1)(a) of that Regulation, in the process of being re-exported subject to notification under Article 182(2) of that Regulation or placed in a free zone or free warehouse within the meaning of Article 166 of that Regulation. 2.
Article 7 Articles 5 and 6 shall apply mutatis mutandis to requests for an extension.
Section 3 Acceptance of the application for action Article 8 1.
The first indent of Article 250 of Regulation (EEC) No 2913/92 shall apply mutatis mutandis to the decision granting that application and to decisions extending or repealing it.
Where a customs office to which the decision granting an application by the right-holder has been forwarded pursuant to Article 8 is satisfied, after consulting the applicant where necessary, that goods in one of the situations referred to in Article 1(1) are suspected of infringing an intellectual property right covered by that decision, it shall suspend release of the goods or detain them.
The customs office shall immediately inform the competent customs department which processed the application. 2.
Article 10 The law in force in the Member State within the territory of which the goods are placed in one of the situations referred to in Article 1(1) shall apply when deciding whether an intellectual property right has been infringed under national law.
Article 12 A right-holder receiving the particulars cited in the first subparagraph of Article 9(3) shall use that information only for the purposes specified in Articles 10, 11 and 13(1).
Where the second subparagraph of Article 13(1) applies, this period may be extended to a maximum of 30 working days.
Article 15 The conditions of storage of the goods during the period of suspension of release or detention shall be determined by each Member State but shall not give rise to costs for the customs administrations.
CHAPTER IV PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO GOODS FOUND TO INFRINGE AN INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHT Article 16 Goods found to infringe an intellectual property right at the end of the procedure provided for in Article 9 shall not be: - allowed to enter into the Community customs territory, - released for free circulation, - removed from the Community customs territory, - exported, - re-exported, - placed under a suspensive procedure or - placed in a free zone or free warehouse.
CHAPTER V PENALTIES Article 18 Each Member State shall introduce penalties to apply in cases of violation of this Regulation.
CHAPTER VI LIABILITY OF THE CUSTOMS AUTHORITIES AND THE RIGHT-HOLDER Article 19 1.
The exercise by a customs office or by another duly empowered authority of the powers conferred on them in order to fight against goods infringing an intellectual property right shall not render them liable towards the persons involved in the situations referred to in Article 1(1) or the persons affected by the measures provided for in Article 4 for damages suffered by them as a result of the authority's intervention, except where provided for by the law of the Member State in which the application is made or, in the case of an application under Article 5(4), by the law of the Member State in which loss or damage is incurred. 3.
CHAPTER VII FINAL PROVISIONS Article 20 The measures necessary for the application of this Regulation shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 21(2).
Where reference is made to this paragraph, Articles 4 and 7 of Decision 1999/468/EC shall apply.
Article 22 Member States shall communicate all relevant information on the application of this Regulation to the Commission.
The provisions of Regulation (EC) No 515/97 shall apply mutatis mutandis.
Article 23 On the basis of the information referred to in Article 22, the Commission shall report annually to the Council on the application of this Regulation.
Article 24 Regulation (EC) No 3295/94 is repealed with effect from 1 July 2004.
Article 25 This Regulation shall enter into force on the seventh day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
It shall apply with effect from 1 July 2004.
Done at Brussels, 22 July 2003.
