As regards the said provisions, that authority shall operate under the responsibility of the official veterinarian, as defined in Article 2 of Directive 64/433/EEC.
Article 3 Animals shall be spared any avoidable excitement, pain or suffering during movement, lairaging, restraint, stunning, slaughter or killing.
CHAPTER II Requirements applicable to slaughterhouses Article 4 The construction, facilities and equipment of slaughterhouses, and their operation, shall be such as to spare animals any avoidable excitement, pain or suffering.
Solipeds, ruminants, pigs, rabbits and poultry brought into slaughterhouses for slaughter shall be: (a) moved and if necessary lairaged in accordance with the provisions of Annex A; (b) restrained in accordance with the provisions of Annex B; (c) stunned before slaughter or killed instantaneously in accordance with the provisions of Annex C; (d) bled in accordance with the provisions of Annex D. 2.
With due regard for the general rules of the Treaty, the competent authorities of the Member States may, for establishments qualifying for derogations pursuant to Articles 4 and 13 of Directive 64/433/EEC, Article 4 of Directive 91/498/EEC and Articles 7 and 18 of Directive 71/118/EEC, grant derogations from paragraph 1(a) in respect of cattle, and from paragraph 1(a) and from the methods for stunning and killing referred to in Annex C in respect of poultry, rabbits, pigs, sheep and goats, provided that the requirements laid down in Article 3 are met.
Instruments, restraint and other equipment and installations used for stunning or killing must be designed, constructed, maintained and used in such a way as to achieve rapid and effective stunning or killing in accordance with the provisions of this Directive.
Article 7 No person shall engage in the movement, lairaging, restraint, stunning, slaughter or killing of animals unless he has the knowledge and skill necessary to perform the tasks humanely and efficiently, in accordance with the requirements of this Directive.
Article 8 Inspections and controls in slaughterhouses shall be carried out under the responsibility of the competent authority, which shall at all times have free access to all parts of slaughterhouses in order to ascertain compliance with this Directive.
CHAPTER III Slaughter and killing outwith slaughterhouses Article 9 1.
Where animals referred to in Article 5 (1) are slaughtered outwith slaughterhouses, Article 5 (1)(b), (c) and (d) shall apply. 2.
Where animals referred to in Article 5 (1) are to be slaughtered or killed for purposes of disease control, this shall be carried out in accordance with Annex E. 2.
Animals farmed for their fur shall be killed in accordance with Annex F. 3.
Surplus day-old chicks, as defined in Article 2 (3) of Directive 90/539/EEC, and embryos in hatchery waste shall be killed as rapidly as possible in accordance with Annex G.
Article 11 Articles 9 and 10 shall not apply in the case of an animal which has to be killed immediately for emergency reasons.
Article 12 Injured or diseased animals must be slaughtered or killed on the spot.
CHAPTER IV Final provisions Article 13 1.
The Commission shall inform the Member States of the result of the checks carried out. 2.
The checks referred to in paragraph 1 shall be carried out in collaboration with the competent authority. 3.
The detailed rules for implementing this Article shall be determined in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 16.
Article 15 In the course of the inspection of slaughterhouses or establishments which have been or are to be approved in third countries for the purpose of being able to export to the Community in accordance with Community rules, the Commission experts shall ensure that the animals referred to in Article 5 have been slaughtered under conditions which offer guarantees of humane treatment at least equivalent to those provided for in this Directive.
Article 17 Directive 74/577/EEC shall be repealed with effect from 1 January 1995.
However, as from the date laid down in paragraph 1, Member States may, with due regard for the general rules of the Treaty, maintain or apply in their territory more stringent provisions than those contained in this Directive.
Article 19 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 22 December 1993.
DEHOUSSE (1) OJ No C 314, 5. 12. 1991, p. 14. (2) OJ No C 241, 21. 9. 1992, p. 75. (3) OJ No C 106, 27. 4. 1992, p. 15. (4) OJ No L 316, 26. 11. 1974, p. 10. (5) OJ No L 137, 2. 6. 1988, p. 25.
ANNEX A REQUIREMENTS FOR THE MOVEMENT AND LAIRAGING OF ANIMALS IN SLAUGHTERHOUSES I.
General requirements 1.
Without prejudice to the provisions laid down in Chapter VI of Annex I to Directive 64/433/EEC, animals which have experienced pain or suffering during transport or upon arrival at the slaughterhouse, and unweaned animals, must be slaughtered immediately.
Requirements for animals delivered other than in containers 1.
Animals must not be lifted by the head, horns, ears, feet, tail or fleece in such a way as to cause them unnecessary pain or suffering.
Without prejudice to derogations granted pursuant to Articles 4 and 13 of Directive 64/433/EEC, slaughterhouses must be equipped with a sufficient number of pens for adequate lairaging of the animals with protection from the effects of adverse weather. 7.
Animals which have not been slaughtered within 12 hours of their arrival must be fed, and must subsequently be given moderate amounts of food at appropriate intervals. 10.
Animals which are kept for 12 hours or more at a slaughterhouse must be lairaged and, where appropriate, tethered, in such a way that they can lie down without difficulty.
Requirements for animals delivered in containers 1.
Animals delivered in containers with perforated or flexible bottoms must be unloaded with particular care in order to avoid injury.
ANNEX B RESTRAINT OF ANIMALS BEFORE STUNNING, SLAUGHTER OR KILLING 1.
ANNEX C STUNNING OR KILLING OF ANIMALS OTHER THAN ANIMALS REARED FOR FUR I.
The competent authority may, however, authorize decapitation, dislocation of the neck and the use of a vacuum chamber as a method of killing for certain specific species, provided that Article 3 is complied with and that the specific requirements laid down in point III of this Annex are met.
ANNEX D BLEEDING OF ANIMALS 1.
In any event, the bleeding must be carried out before the animal regains consciousness. 2.
In addition, the competent authority may, in compliance with the general provisions of Article 3 of this Directive, permit the use of other methods for killing conscious animals, ensuring in particular that: - if methods are used which do not cause immediate death (for example, captive bolt shooting), appropriate measures are taken to kill the animals as soon as possible, and in any event before they regain consciousness, - nothing more is done to the animals before it has been ascertained that they are dead.
ANNEX F METHODS OF KILLING FUR ANIMALS I.
Permitted methods 1.
Exposure to carbon monoxide. 5.
Exposure to chloroform. 6.
The competent authority shall decide on the most appropriate method of killing for the different species concerned in compliance with the general provisions of Article 3 of this Directive.
Specific requirements 1.
However, for foxes, where electrodes are applied to the mouth and rectum, a current of an average value of 0,3 amps must be applied for at least 3 seconds. 4.
ANNEX G KILLING OF SURPLUS CHICKS AND EMBRYOS IN HATCHERY WASTE I.
Permitted methods for the killing of chicks 1.
Exposure to carbon dioxide. 3.
Specific requirements 1.
