Article 13 grants financial assistance to existing producer organisations needing a transitional period in order to qualify for recognition.
It should be possible for furnished securities to be progressively released as implementation of the operational programme proceeds, to the extent of up to 80 % of the advances paid, the remaining amount being retained until the balance of the assistance has been paid.
Programmes already approved whose application continues into 2001 must be amended unless their advanced state of implementation makes this inappropriate. (17) To ensure correct application of this scheme, Member States should forward all details of complementary and additional measures taken in the framework of this Regulation.
The rules laid down herein shall apply to Community financial assistance, operational funds and operational programmes as referred to in Article 15(1) and (2)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 2200/96 and to action plans as referred to in Article 13(2)(a) of that Regulation. 2.
In such cases, Member States may authorise such associations to present a partial operational programme on their own: (i) consisting of actions identified, but not implemented by the member producer organisations within their operational programmes; (ii) in accordance with the provisions of Articles 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8; the partial programme shall be considered together with the operational programmes of the member producer organisations.
Where a reduction in value of a product has occurred due to reasons falling outside the responsibility and control of the producer organisation, the value of the marketed production referred to in paragraph 6 shall not be less than 65 % of the value of the previous reference period. 9.
CHAPTER II OPERATIONAL FUNDS AND PROGRAMMES Article 3 Operational funds 1.
Financial contributions to the operational fund shall be levied in accordance with Article 15(1) of Regulation (EC) No 2200/96.
Under conditions set by Member States, producer organisations may advance members' contributions to the fund for a given year of implementation of the operational programme, conditional to compensation against the levies collected from their members by 31 January of the following year. 5.
Article 5 Operational programme approval by Member States 1.
Article 6 Operational programme changes 1.
However, Member States may postpone the date for submitting requests. 2.
Article 7 Operational programme format Operational programmes shall be implemented in annual periods running from 1 January to 31 December.
Article 8 Operational programme contents 1.
CHAPTER III COMMUNITY FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE Article 9 Estimates of operational funds 1.
Each year on or before 15 September and, where applicable, at the same time as proposed operational programmes as referred to in Article 4 of this Regulation or requests for changes as referred to in Article 6(2) are submitted, producer organisations implementing operational programmes shall forward the estimated amounts of the operational funds for the following year to the Member States in accordance with Article 16(2) of Regulation (EC) No 2200/96.
Calculation of the estimated amount of operational funds shall be based on: (a) the factors referred to in Article 16(2) of Regulation (EC) No 2200/96 and contained in the proposed operational programmes and on estimated expenditure on withdrawals as referred to in Article 15(3) thereof; (b) the value of marketed production established in accordance with Article 2(5) of this Regulation. 2.
When proposed programmes are being approved, Member States shall establish the approved amount of financial assistance as referred to in the first subparagraph of Article 16(2) of Regulation (EC) No 2200/96. 3.
Member States shall report estimates of operational funds to the Commission within the framework provided for under Article 17 of this Regulation.
Article 10 Advance payments 1.
Total advance payments made for a given year may not exceed 90 % of the approved amount of financial assistance for the operational programme. 2.
Advances shall be paid subject to the furnishing of a security equivalent to 110 % thereof and according to conditions to be set by Member States: (i) to ensure that financial contributions to the operational fund have been levied in accordance with Article 3(2), (3) and (4); (ii) to ensure previous advance payments have actually been spent.
Securities shall be released in respect of up to 80 % of advances paid. 3.
Applications for financial assistance or the balance thereof shall be submitted, one only in respect of each programme, no later than 31 January of the year following that to which they relate. 2.
Applications shall be accompanied by supporting documents showing: (a) the value of the marketed production within the meaning of Article 2(5); (b) the financial contributions levied on members and paid into the operational fund, in accordance with the second subparagraph of Article 15(1) of Regulation (EC) No 2200/96 and Article 3 of this Regulation, for marketed production within the meaning of Article 2(5) of this Regulation; (c) the expenditure incurred in respect of the operational programme; (d) the proportion of the operational fund spent on the financing of market withdrawals in accordance with Article 15(3) of Regulation (EC) No 2200/96, the level of compensation and/or supplements paid to members, and also compliance with the limits laid down in the third subparagraph of Article 15(3) and in Article 23(3), (4) and (5) of that Regulation. 3.
Applications for financial assistance or the balance thereof may cover expenditure programmed but not incurred relating to operations for which it is proved to the satisfaction of the competent national authority that: (i) these operations could not be carried out on or before 31 December of the year of implementation of the operational programme for reasons beyond the control of the producer organisation concerned, and that they can be carried out on or before 30 April of the following year; (ii) an equivalent contribution from the producer organisation is maintained in the operational fund.
Member States shall pay the financial assistance due to the producer organisations at the latest on 30 June of the year following the year of implementation of the programme.
However Member States may postpone this date until 31 August. 5.
Where applications for financial assistance or the balance thereof are submitted later than the date set in paragraph 1, the aid is reduced by 1 % for each day late. 6.
Article 12 Reporting applications for aid Member States shall report details on applications for aid to the Commission within the framework provided for under Article 17 of this Regulation.
CHAPTER IV GENERAL PROVISIONS Article 13 Producer organisation reports 1.
Article 14 Checks 1.
The sample must represent at least 20 % of producer organisations and 30 % of total Community assistance.
Member States shall report details on checks to the Commission within the framework provided for under Article 17 of this Regulation.
Amounts unduly paid shall be recovered and sanctions shall be applied to the producer organisations concerned, in particular where: (a) the real value of marketed production within the meaning of Article 2(5) is less than the amount used to calculate the Community financial assistance; or (b) the operational fund has been maintained in a manner which does not comply with Article 15(1) of Regulation (EC) No 2200/96 or has been used for purposes other than those referred to in Article 15(2) of that Regulation; or (c) the operational programme has been implemented in a manner which does not comply with the conditions for its approval by the Member State concerned, without prejudice to Article 6 of this Regulation. 2.
Where recovery and/or sanctions apply as in paragraph 1, the recipient/applicant shall be required: (a) in cases where aid has already been paid: (i) in the case of obvious error, to reimburse the amounts unduly paid out, plus interest, (ii) in the case of fraud, to reimburse double the amounts unduly paid out, plus interest; (iii) in all other cases, to reimburse the amounts unduly paid out, increased by 20 %, plus interest; (b) in cases where applications for financial assistance have been submitted according to Article 11 of this Regulation but no aid has been paid: (i) in the case of fraud, to pay the amounts unduly applied for, (ii) in all cases other than those of obvious error, to pay 20 % of the amounts unduly applied for. 4.
Paragraphs 1 to 6 shall apply without prejudice to other penalties to be adopted in accordance with Article 48 of Regulation (EC) No 2200/96. 8.
Member States shall report details on recovery and sanctions to the Commission within the framework provided for under Article 17 of this Regulation.
CHAPTER V Article 16 Member State provisions 1.
Member States shall report details on provisions adopted to the Commission within the framework provided for under Article 17 of this Regulation.
Article 17 Member State reporting 1.
Article 18 Commission Regulation (EC) No 411/97(18) is repealed.
Done at Brussels, 28 March 2001.
