Decision No 1513/2002/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 June 2002 concerning the sixth framework programme of the European Community for research, technological development and demonstration activities, contributing to the creation of the European Research Area and to innovation (2002 to 2006) Decision No 1513/2002/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 June 2002 concerning the sixth framework programme of the European Community for research, technological development and demonstration activities, contributing to the creation of the European Research Area and to innovation (2002 to 2006) THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular Article 166(1) thereof, Having regard to the proposal from the Commission(1), Having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee(2), Having regard to the opinion of the Committee of the Regions(3), Acting in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 251 of the Treaty(4), Whereas: (1) For the fulfilment of the tasks laid down in Article 2 of the Treaty, Article 163 of the Treaty provides that the Community is to have the objective of strengthening the scientific and technological bases of Community industry and encouraging it to become more competitive at international level, while promoting research activities deemed necessary by virtue of other Community policies. (2) Article 164 of the Treaty enumerates the activities the Community is to carry out in pursuing these objectives, complementing the activities carried out in the Member States. (3) The Treaty provides for the adoption of a multiannual framework programme setting out all Community research, technological development and demonstration (RTD) activities.
In 2000 the Commission also submitted a communication on innovation in a knowledge-driven economy. (6) The European Councils in Lisbon in March 2000, Santa Maria de Feira in June 2000 and Stockholm in March 2001 adopted conclusions aimed at the rapid establishment of a European research and innovation area with a view to sustainable economic growth, more employment and social cohesion with the ultimate goal of enabling the Union, by 2010, to become the world's most competitive and dynamic knowledge economy.
In particular, the European Council in Lisbon underlined the importance of the Commission's e-Europe initiative, which aims at an information society for all, while the Stockholm European Council also stressed the need to make particular efforts in new technologies, especially biotechnology. (7) The European Parliament(5)(6), the Council(7)(8), the Economic and Social Committee(9) and the Committee of the Regions(10) have also supported the creation of the European Research Area. (8) On 19 October 2000 the Commission submitted the conclusions of the external assessment of the implementation and results of the Community activities carried out in the five years preceding that assessment, accompanied by its observations. (9) The sixth framework programme should have a structuring effect on research and technological development in Europe, including the Member States, associated candidate countries and other associated countries and make a significant contribution to the establishment of the European Research Area and to innovation. (10) In accordance with Article 166(1) of the Treaty, it is necessary to establish the scientific and technological objectives and to fix the relevant priorities for the activities envisaged, the maximum overall amount, the detailed rules for Community financial participation in the sixth framework programme, as well as the respective shares in each of the activities envisaged, and to indicate the broad lines of the activities in question, which will be implemented in compliance with the objective of protecting the Community's financial interests.
The sixth framework programme shall comprise all Community activities envisaged in Article 164 of the Treaty. 3.
The maximum overall amount for Community financial participation in the entire sixth framework programme shall be EUR 16270 million.
Article 3 All the research activities carried out under the sixth framework programme must be carried out in compliance with fundamental ethical principles.
Article 4 In the context of the annual report to be submitted by the Commission pursuant to Article 173 of the Treaty, the Commission shall report in detail on progress with implementing the sixth framework programme, and in particular progress towards achieving its objectives and meeting its priorities as set out under each heading of Annex I; information on financial aspects and the use of the instruments shall also be included.
Article 5 The sixth framework programme shall be implemented through specific programmes.
Done at Luxembourg, 27 June 2002.
Cox The President For the Council M.
Arias Cañete The President (1) OJ C 180 E, 26.6.2001, p. 156 and OJ C 75 E, 26.3.2002, p. 132. (2) OJ C 260, 17.9.2001, p. 3. (3) OJ C 107, 3.5.2002, p. 111. (4) Opinion of the European Parliament of 14 November 2001 (not yet published in the Official Journal), Council Common Position of 28 January 2002 (OJ C 113 E, 14.5.2002, p. 54) and Decision of the European Parliament of 15 May 2002 (not yet published in the Official Journal).
Council Decision of 3 June 2002. (5) Resolution of 18 May 2000 (OJ C 59, 23.2.2001, p. 250). (6) Resolution of 15 February 2001 (OJ C 276, 1.10.2002, p. 271). (7) Resolution of 15 June 2000 (OJ C 205, 19.7.2000, p. 1). (8) Resolution of 16 November 2000 (OJ C 374, 28.12.2000, p. 1). (9) Opinion of 24 May 2000 (OJ C 204, 18.7.2000, p. 70). (10) Opinion of 12 April 2000 (OJ C 226, 8.8.2000, p. 18). (11) OJ C 201, 16.7.1999, p. 1. (12) OJ C 199, 14.7.2001, p. 1. (13) OJ C 309, 27.10.2000, p. 57.
In order to achieve this more effectively, and in order to contribute to the creation of the European Research Area and to innovation, this programme will be structured around the following three headings, under which the four activities as set out in Article 164 of the Treaty will be undertaken: - focusing and integrating Community research, - structuring the European Research Area, - strengthening the foundations of the European Research Area.
In order to help the development of SMEs in the knowledge society and the use of the economic potential of SMEs in an enlarged and better integrated European Union, SMEs, including small and micro enterprises as well as craft enterprises, will be encouraged to participate in all areas and all instruments as set out in Annex III of the sixth framework programme, in particular in the context of the activities carried out in the priority thematic areas in the spirit of %quot%stairway of excellence%quot%.
International participation in these activities will be assured.
The detailed conditions under which entities from third countries and international organisations involved in research activities may participate in this programme, including the financial arrangements, are specified in the decision which will be adopted pursuant to Article 167 of the Treaty.
FOCUSING AND INTEGRATING COMMUNITY RESEARCH The activities carried out under this heading, which will represent the major part of the efforts deployed under this programme, are intended to integrate research efforts and activities on a European scale.
aeronautics and space; 5.
sustainable development, global change and ecosystems; 7.
citizens and governance in a knowledge-based society. 1.2.
Supporting policies and anticipating scientific and technological needs Activities in support of Community policies and research responding to new and emerging scientific and technological needs 1.2.2.
Horizontal research activities involving SMEs These specific activities are intended to help European SMEs in traditional or new areas to boost their technological capacities and develop their ability to operate on a European and international scale. 1.2.3.
Science and society Activities to encourage harmonious relations between science and society and the awareness of society in respect of innovation, as a result of new relations and informed dialogue between researchers, industrialists, political decision-makers and citizens. 3.
FOCUSING AND INTEGRATING COMMUNITY RESEARCH The activities carried out under this heading will represent the major part of the research efforts deployed under this programme, intended to contribute to the general objective of the Treaty of strengthening the scientific and technical bases of Community industry and encouraging it to be more competitive at international level, while promoting all the research activities deemed necessary by other Chapters of the Treaty.
In order to bring about European added value by assembling a critical mass of resources, this programme will focus on seven, clearly defined thematic priority areas where Community research efforts will be integrated by pulling them together and making them more coherent, on a European scale.
To complement efforts in the thematic priorities, specific horizontal research activities will address SMEs, innovation and international cooperation as well as respond to Community policy objectives and future and emerging research needs. 1.1.
Thematic priorities 1.1.1.
Work will focus on: (a) the new generations of wireless and mobile communications systems and networks; satellite communications systems; all-optical technologies; integration and management of communication networks, including interoperable network solutions; capacity-enhancing technologies necessary for the development of systems, infrastructures and services, in particular for audio-visual applications.
Aeronautics and space Objective The aim of activities carried out in this area is two-fold: to strengthen, by integrating its research efforts, the scientific and technological bases of the European aeronautics and space industry and encouraging it to become more competitive at international level; and to help exploit the potential of European research in this sector with a view to improving safety and environmental protection.
Actions envisaged Aeronautics Community aeronautical research activities including air transport systems will address research and technological development activities necessary in order to: (a) increase the competitiveness of the European industry with regard to civil aircraft, engines and equipment; (b) reduce the environmental impact of aviation, by reducing fuel consumption, CO2, NOX and other chemical pollutants and noise pollution; (c) increase aircraft safety in the context of the substantial rise in air traffic; (d) increase the capacity and safety of the air transport system, in support of a %quot%Single European Sky%quot% (air traffic control and management systems).
Sustainable development, global change and ecosystems Objective The activities carried out in this area are intended to strengthen the scientific and technological capacities needed for Europe to be able to implement sustainable development, emphasised by the Göteborg European Council, and integrating its environmental, economic and social objectives with particular regard to renewable energy, transport, and sustainable management of Europe's land and marine resources.
Where technology is concerned, as highlighted in the Commission Green Paper %quot%Towards a European strategy for the security of energy supply%quot% and in the Commission's White Paper %quot%European transport policy for 2010: time to decide%quot%, two areas concerned as a matter of priority are energy and transport, which are responsible for over 80 % of total emissions of greenhouse gases and more than 90 % of CO2 emissions.
Under the 1997 Kyoto Protocol to the 1992 United Nations framework Convention on climate change, the European Union is required to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by 8 % compared with the 1990 levels in the period 2008 to 2012.
Other important commitments are contained in international instruments such as the 1992 UN Convention on biological diversity, the 1994 UN Convention to combat desertification in countries seriously affected by drought and/or desertification, particularly in Africa, and the 1987 Montreal Protocol on substances that deplete the ozone layer as well as in the Union strategy for sustainable development, including the sixth environment action programme.
Actions envisaged The Community's RTD efforts will concentrate on activities in the following areas: I.
Citizens and governance in a knowledge-based society Objective The activities carried out in this area are intended to mobilise in a coherent effort, in all their wealth and diversity, European research capacities in economic, political, social sciences and humanities that are necessary to develop an understanding of, and to address issues related to, the emergence of the knowledge-based society and new forms of relationships between its citizens, on the one hand and between its citizens and institutions, on the other.
Justification of the effort and European added value At the European Council in Lisbon in March 2000, the European Union set itself the ambitious objective of becoming %quot%the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world, capable of sustained economic growth providing more and better jobs and greater social cohesion%quot%.
Horizontal research activities involving SMEs Carried out in support of European competitiveness and enterprise and innovation policy, these specific activities are intended to help European SMEs in traditional or new areas to boost their technological capacities and develop their ability to operate on a European and international scale.
In addition to these specific research activities for SMEs, SMEs will be encouraged to participate in all areas of this programme, in particular in the context of the activities carried out in the priority thematic areas.
STRUCTURING THE EUROPEAN RESEARCH AREA 2.1.
They will take the form of support for: (a) networking of stakeholders and users in the European innovation system and carrying out analyses and studies in order to promote exchanges of experience and good practice and to engage users better in the innovation process; (b) actions to encourage transregional cooperation regarding innovation and support for the setting-up of technology businesses, as well as for the preparation of regional and transregional strategies in this area, including the accession countries; (c) actions to experiment with new tools and new approaches concerning technological innovation addressing in particular critical points in the innovation process; (d) establishment or consolidation of information services and in particular electronic services, such as CORDIS, and assistance services relating to innovation (technology transfer, protection of intellectual property, access to risk capital); including the activities of innovation relay centres; (e) economic and technological intelligence activities (analyses of technological developments, applications and markets and processing and dissemination of information which may help researchers, entrepreneurs, and in particular SMEs, and investors in their decision-making); (f) analysis and evaluation of innovation activities carried out in the framework of Community research projects and exploitation of lessons that can be drawn from innovation policies.
Human resources and mobility Objective The activities carried out under this heading are intended to support the development of abundant world-class human resources in all the regions of the Community by promoting transnational mobility for training purposes, the development of expertise or the transfer of knowledge, in particular between different sectors; supporting the development of excellence; and helping to make Europe more attractive to third country researchers.
Actions envisaged These activities, which will be carried out in the whole field of science and technology, will take in particular the following forms: (a) support measures for universities, research centres, businesses including in particular SMEs and networks, for the hosting of European and third country researchers, including training of pre-doctoral researchers.
Such support will provide for a sufficiently long training period and focus on researchers with at least four years of research experience, while also addressing the needs of training in research management; (c) financial contribution to national or regional programmes in support of researcher mobility open to researchers from other European countries; (d) support for the creation and development of European research teams which are considered as having the potential to reach a high level of excellence, more particularly for leading edge or interdisciplinary research activities where such support can add value to national measures; (e) scientific prizes for work of excellence carried out by a researcher having received Union financial support for mobility.
Research infrastructures Objective The activities carried out under this heading are intended to help establish a fabric of research infrastructures of the highest level in Europe and to promote their optimum use on a European scale.
Justification of the effort and European added value The development of a European approach with regard to research infrastructures, and the carrying out of activities in this area at Union level, can make a significant contribution to boosting European research potential and its exploitation: by helping to ensure wider access to the infrastructures existing in the different Member States and increasing the complementarity of the facilities in place; by promoting the development or establishment of infrastructures ensuring a service on a European scale, as well as optimum construction choices in European terms and in terms of regional and transregional technological development.
STRENGTHENING THE FOUNDATIONS OF THE UROPEAN RESEARCH AREA Objective The activities carried out under this heading are intended to step up the coordination and to support the coherent development of research and innovation-stimulation policies and activities in Europe.
Actions envisaged A.
These activities will take the form of stepping up the coordination of research activities carried out in Europe, at both national and European level with financial support for: (a) the mutual opening-up of national and regional programmes; (b) networking of research activities conducted at national and regional level; (c) the administration and coordination activities of European cooperation in the field of scientific and technological research (COST); (d) scientific and technological coordination activities carried out in other European cooperation frameworks, in particular the European Science Foundation; (e) collaboration and joint initiatives of specialised European scientific cooperation organisations such as CERN, EMBL, ESO, ENO and the ESA(6).
These actions will be implemented in the general context of efforts undertaken to optimise the overall performance of European scientific and technological cooperation and ensure that its different components, including COST and Eureka, are complementary.
In order to support the coherent development of research and innovation policies in Europe: (a) carrying out analyses and studies, and work relating to scientific and technological foresight, statistics and indicators; (b) setting up and support for the operation of specialised working groups and forums for concertation and political debate; (c) support for work on the benchmarking of research and innovation policies at national, regional and European level; (d) support for carrying out work on the mapping of scientific and technological excellence in Europe; (e) support for carrying out the work needed to improve the regulatory and administrative environment for research and innovation in Europe. (1) Fundamental knowledge in genomics (including human/animal/plant) is covered by the first priority, as well as its applications to human health.
ANNEX II MAXIMUM OVERALL AMOUNT, RESPECTIVE SHARES AND INDICATIVE BREAKDOWN The maximum overall financial amount and the respective indicative shares of the various activities as referred to in Article 164 of the Treaty are as follows: %gt%TABLE%gt% These activities will be carried out under the following headings (the indicative financial breakdown is set out): %gt%TABLE%gt% ANNEX III INSTRUMENTS AND RULES FOR FINANCIAL PARTICIPATION BY THE COMMUNITY The Community will contribute financially, under the specific programmes, and subject to the rules for participation, to research and technological activities, including demonstration activities, of this programme.
Concerning research in the priority thematic areas (under Heading I as defined in Annex I): - the importance of the new instruments (integrated projects and networks of excellence) is recognised as being an overall priority means to attain the objectives of critical mass, management simplification and European added value contributed by Community research in relation to what is already undertaken at national level, and of the integration of the research capacities.
However, the size of projects is not a criterion for exclusion, and access to new instruments is ensured for SMEs and other small entities, - the new instruments will be used from the start of this programme in each theme and, where deemed appropriate, as a priority means, while maintaining the use of specific targeted research projects and coordination actions, - in 2004 an evaluation will be undertaken by independent experts of the effectiveness of each of these three types of instruments in the execution of this programme.
Activities referred to under Heading II (Structuring the European Research Area) and Heading III (Strengthening the foundations of the European Research Area), will take the form of specific targeted research and innovation projects, integrated infrastructure initiatives and actions to promote human resources and mobility.
In addition, specific support actions, coordination actions and participation of the Community in programmes undertaken by several Member States pursuant to Article 169 of the Treaty may be applied throughout this programme. 1.1.
The activities carried out as part of an integrated project should include research and, as appropriate, technological development and/or demonstration activities, activities for the management and use of knowledge in order to promote innovation, and any other type of activity directly related to the objectives of the integrated project.
Subject to conditions to be specified in the specific programmes and in the rules for participation, the integrated projects will have a high level of management autonomy including, where appropriate, the possibility to adapt the partnership and the content of the project.
Participation of the Community in programmes undertaken by several Member States (Article 169) Pursuant to Article 169 of the Treaty, this instrument will cover clearly identified programmes implemented by governments, national or regional authorities or research organisations and may be used in all the activities of this programme(1).
In compliance with this international framework, it will need to be possible to adjust the scale and form of financial participation under this programme on a case by case basis, in particular if funding from other public sector sources is available, including other sources of Community financing such as the EIB and EIF.
RTD activities and Community financial contribution according to type of instrument %gt%TABLE%gt% (1) It is recalled that national programmes to be carried out jointly pursuant to Article 169 of the Treaty are subject to decision by the European Parliament and the Council under the procedure provided for in Article 251 of the Treaty. (2) It is recalled that, pursuant to Article 167 of the Treaty, the rules for the participation of undertakings, research centres and universities and for the dissemination of research results for the implementation of the framework programme are to be adopted by the European Parliament and the Council subject to the procedure provided for in Article 251 of the Treaty.
