Article 2 The priority fields for operations under this Regulation shall be: - the development of human and technical resources and local rural or urban social and economic development in the developing countries, - information and the mobilisation of decentralised cooperation agents, - support for strengthening the institutional capacities of such agents and their capacity for action, - methodological back-up and follow-up for operations.
Article 3 The cooperation partners eligible for financial support under this Regulation shall be decentralised cooperation agents in the Community or the developing countries, namely: local authorities, non-governmental organisations, local traders' associations and local citizens' groups, cooperatives, trade unions, women's and youth organisations, teaching and research institutions, churches and any non-governmental associations likely to contribute to development.
The budgetary authority shall determine the appropriations available for each financial year, taking account of the principles of sound financial management referred to in Article 2 of the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities.
The instruments to be employed in the course of the operations referred to in Article 1 shall include studies, technical assistance, training or other services, supplies and works, along with audits and evaluation and monitoring missions. 2.
Article 6 Financial support under this Regulation shall be in the form of grants.
Decisions relating to grants of more than ECU 1 million for individual operations financed under this Regulation and any amendment involving an increase of more than 20 % in the amount initially approved for such an operation shall be adopted under the procedure laid down in Article 8. 3.
Article 10 After each budget year, the Commission shall submit an annual report to the European Parliament and the Council, summarising the operations financed in the course of that year and evaluating the implementation of this Regulation in that period.
Article 11 The Commission shall make regular assessments of operations financed by the Community, in order to establish whether the objectives targeted by these operations have been attained and in order to give indications to improve the effectiveness of future operations.
The Commission shall submit to the Committee referred to in Article 8 a summary of assessments carried out, which the latter may examine where appropriate.
Article 12 Before the end of 2000, the Commission shall submit to the European Parliament and the Council an overall assessment of the operations financed by the Community under this Regulation, accompanied by suggestions concerning the future of this Regulation.
Article 13 This Regulation shall enter into force on the third day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
It shall apply until 31 December 2001.
Done at Brussels, 17 July 1998.
