Article 2 Beneficiaries and scope 1.
Article 3 Definitions For the purpose of this Decision: (a) "document" shall mean any content, whatever its medium (written on paper or stored in electronic form or as a sound, visual or audiovisual recording); (b) "third party" shall mean any natural or legal person, or any entity outside the Court of Auditors, including the Member States, other Community or non-Community institutions and bodies and third countries.
The Court of Auditors shall refuse access to a document where disclosure would undermine the protection of: (a) the public interest including: - public security, - defence and military matters, - international relations, - the financial, monetary or economic policy of the Community or a Member State; (b) privacy and integrity of the individual, in particular in accordance with Community legislation regarding the protection of personal data. 2.
The Court of Auditors shall refuse access to a document where disclosure would undermine the protection of: - commercial interests of a natural or legal person, including intellectual property, - court proceedings and legal advice, - inspections, investigations and audits. 4.
Article 5 Applications Applications for access to a document must be made in writing [7], either in hard copy or electronically, in one of the languages referred to in Article 314 of the EC Treaty [8] and in a sufficiently precise manner to enable the Court of Auditors to identify the document.
Article 6 Processing of initial applications 1.
Article 7 Reconsideration 1.
In the event of a total or partial refusal, the applicant may, within 15 working days of receiving the Court of Auditors’ reply, ask the Court to reconsider its position. 2.
Article 8 Processing of requests for reconsideration 1.
Article 9 Access following an application 1.
Article 10 Reproduction of documents 1.
Article 11 Final provisions 1.
Decision No 18/97 of the Court of Auditors of 20 February 1997 is repealed. 2.
Done at Luxembourg, 10 March 2005.
