Article 5 Member States shall establish programmes in order to reduce pollution and to ensure that designated waters conform within five years following designation in accordance with Article 4 to both the values set by the Member States in accordance with Article 3 and the comments contained in columns G and I of Annex I.
Where the competent authority records that the quality of designated waters is appreciably higher than that which would result from the application of the values set in accordance with Article 3 and the comments contained in columns G and I of Annex I, the frequency of the sampling may be reduced.
Article 8 Implementation of the measures taken pursuant to this Directive may on no account lead, either directly or indirectly, to increased pollution of fresh water.
Article 9 Member States may at any time set more stringent values for designated waters than those laid down in this Directive.
Article 10 When fresh waters cross or form national frontiers between Member States and when one of these States considers designating these waters, these States shall consult each other in order to determine the stretches of such waters to which the Directive might apply and the consequences to be drawn from the common quality objectives ; these consequences shall be determined, after formal consultations, by each State concerned.
Article 11 The Member States may derogate from this Directive: (a) in the case of certain parameters marked (0) in Annex I, because of exceptional weather or special geographical conditions; (b) when designated waters undergo natural enrichment in certain substances, so that the values set out in Annex I are not respected.
Article 12 Such amendments as are necessary for adapting to technical and scientific progress: - the G values for the parameters, and - the methods of analysis, contained in Annex I shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 14.
Article 15 For the purposes of applying this Directive, Member States shall provide the Commission with information concerning: - the waters designated in accordance with Article 4 (1) and (2), in summary form, - the revision of the designation of certain waters in accordance with Article 4 (3), - the provisions laid down in order to establish new parameters in accordance with Article 9, - the application of the derogations from the values listed in column I in Annex I.
Member States shall, five years following the initial designation in accordance with Article 4 (1), and at regular intervals thereafter, submit a detailed report to the Commission on designated waters and the basic features thereof. 2.
Article 18 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
