Article 4 Each beneficiary Member State shall forthwith repoort to the Commission and, where necessary, to the other Member States concerned, any irregularities discovered or supposed to have occured, where it is feared that: - they may very quickly have repercussions outside its territory, and or - they show that a new and practice has been employed.
The Commission shall organize information meetings at Community level for representatives of the Member States in order to examine with them the information obtained pursuant to Articles 3, 4 and 5 and pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Article, in particular with regard to the lessons to be learned therefrom in connection with irregularities, preventive measures and legal proceedings. 4.
Article 9 The Commission shall regularly inform the Member States, in the framework of the Consultative Committee for Coordination in the field of fraud prevention, of the order of magnitude of the funds involved in the irregularities which have been discovered and of the various categories of irregularity, broken down by type and counted up.
Article 11 In cases of co-finacing borne jointly by the Cohesion Fund and by a beneficiary Member State, the amounts recovered shall be shared by that Member State and the Community in proportion to the expenditure already incurred by them.
Where the irregularities relate to sums of less than ECU 4 000 charged to the Community budget, beneficiary Member States shall not forward to the Commission the information provided for in Articles 3 and 5 unless the latter explicity requests it. 2.
The amount referred to in paragraph 1 shall be converted into national currency by applying the exchange rates published in the Official Journal of the European Communities, C Series, which are valid on the first working day of the year in which the information on the irregularities is communicated.
Article 13 This Regulation shall enter into force on the third day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
The period between the day of entry into force and the end of the current calendar quarter shall be deemed to be a quarter for the purposes of Articles 3 and 5.
Done at Brussels, 26 July 1994.
For the Commission Peter SCHMIDHUBER Member of the Commission (1) OJ No L 130, 25. 5. 1994, p. 1.
