Member States shall, whilst complying with conditions as to quality and accuracy to be defined in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 7(2), acquire the data necessary for the specification of the characteristics listed in Annexes I and II by means either of: - surveys, - administrative or other sources, such as the reporting obligations under Community legislation on waste management, - statistical estimation procedures on the basis of samples or waste-related estimators, or - a combination of these means.
Member States shall produce statistical results, following the breakdown set out in Annexes I and II. 4.
The exclusion referred to in paragraph 2 must be consistent with the coverage and quality objectives as referred to in Section 7(1) of Annexes I and II. 5.
Member States shall transmit the results, including confidential data, to Eurostat in an appropriate format and within a set period of time from the end of the respective reference periods, as laid down in Annexes I and II. 6.
Article 4 Transitional period 1.
During a transitional period the Commission may, at the request of a Member State and in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 7(2), grant derogations from the provisions of Section 5 of Annexes I and II.
The pilot studies shall aim to develop a methodology to obtain regular data which shall be governed by the principles of Community statistics, as laid down in Article 10 of Regulation (EC) No 322/97.
The Commission shall finance up to 100 % of the costs for conducting the pilot studies.
Article 5 Import and export of waste 1.
The pilot studies shall aim at developing a methodology to obtain regular data which shall be governed by the principles of Community statistics, as laid down in Article 10 of Regulation (EC) No 322/97. 2.
The Commission shall finance up to 100 % of the costs for conducting the pilot studies. 4.
Article 8 Report 1.
Article 9 Entry into force This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Done at Brussels, 25 November 2002.
Cox For the Council The President B.
The Commission will finance up to 100 % of the costs for these pilot studies.
SECTION 3 Characteristics 1.
SECTION 4 Reporting unit 1.
SECTION 5 First reference year and periodicity 1.
The minimum requirement for the coverage will be defined in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 7(2) of this Regulation. 2.
The Commission will include the coverage and quality reports in the report provided for in Article 8 of this Regulation.
the following Sections, Divisions, Groups and Classes of NACE REV 1: %gt%TABLE%gt% 1.2.
households %gt%TABLE%gt% 2.
SECTION 5 First reference year and periodicity 1.
SECTION 6 Transmission of results to Eurostat The results are to be transmitted within 18 months of the end of the reference year.
The minimum requirement for the coverage will be defined in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 7(2) of this Regulation. 2.
The Commission will include the coverage and quality reports in the report provided for in Article 8 of this Regulation.
The Commission will finance up to 100 % of the costs for conducting these pilot studies.
