Article 2 Member States shall endeavour to make the practices of their police, customs services and judicial authorities more compatible with each other, thus making for closer European cooperation to prevent and combat illegal drug trafficking in the Union.
Article 3 Member States shall undertake to combat illicit movements of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances within the Community, including 'drug tourism`.
Article 4 Member States shall ensure that under their legal systems the penalties imposed for serious drug trafficking are among the most severe penalties available for crimes of comparable gravity.
Article 5 Member States shall endeavour to draft convergent legislation to the extent necessary to make up legal ground or fill legal vacuums as regards synthetic drugs.
Article 6 Without prejudice to the powers of the Community, Member States shall undertake to adopt the necessary measures to effect a tangible increase in operational cooperation between police, customs services and judicial authorities in combating drug addiction and preventing and combating illegal drug trafficking.
Article 8 Member States undertake to take the most appropriate steps to combat the illicit cultivation of plants containing active ingredients with narcotic properties.
Article 9 Member States undertake, subject to their constitutional principles and the basic concepts of their legal systems, to make it an offence publicly and intentionally to incite or induce others, by any means, to commit offences of illicit use or production of narcotic drugs.
Article 10 Nothing in this joint action shall prevent a Member State, with due regard for its international commitments, from maintaining or introducing in its territory any additional measure it deems appropriate to fight drug addiction and to prevent and combat illicit drug trafficking.
Article 11 The Governments of the Member States shall undertake to take all appropriate steps to implement this joint action as soon as it is adopted.
Article 12 This joint action shall come into force on the day of its adoption.
Article 13 This joint action shall be published in the Official Journal.
Done at Brussels, 17 December 1996.
