A situation in which two or more natural or legal persons are permanently linked to one and the same person by a control relationship shall also be regarded as constituting a close link between such persons. (*) OJ No L 193, 18. 7. 1983, p. 1.
Directive as last amended by Directive 90/605/EEC (OJ No L 317, 16. 11. 1990, p. 60).' 2.
Notwithstanding paragraphs 1 to 4, Member States may authorize exchanges of information between the competent authorities and: - the authorities responsible for overseeing the bodies involved in the liquidation and bankruptcy of financial undertakings and other similar procedures, or - the authorities responsible for overseeing the persons charged with carrying out statutory audits of the accounts of insurance undertakings, credit institutions, investment firms and other financial institutions, or - independent actuaries of insurance undertakings carrying out legal supervision of those undertakings and the bodies responsible for overseeing such actuaries.
Notwithstanding paragraphs 1 to 4, Member States may authorize exchanges of information between, the competent authorities and: - the authorities responsible for overseeing the bodies involved in the liquidation and bankruptcy of financial undertakings and other similar procedures, or - the authorities responsible for overseeing persons charged with carrying out statutory audits of the accounts of insurance undertakings, credit institutions, investment firms and other financial institutions.
Notwithstanding paragraphs 1 to 4, Member States may, with the aim of strengthening the stability, including integrity, of the financial system, authorize the exchange of information between the competent authorities and the authorities or bodies responsible under the law for the detection and investigation of breaches of company law.
This Article shall not prevent the competent authorities from communicating the information referred to in paragraphs 1 to 4 to a clearing house or other similar body recognized under national law for the provision of clearing or settlement services for one of their Member States' markets if they consider that it is necessary to communicate the information in order to ensure the proper functioning of those bodies in relation to defaults or potential defaults by market participants.
The information received in this context shall be subject to the conditions of professional secrecy referred to in paragraph 1.
Paragraph 2 shall not prevent the competent authorities of the various Member States from exchanging information in accordance with this Directive or other Directives applicable to Ucits or to undertakings contributing towards their business activity.
That information shall be subject to the conditions of professional secrecy imposed in paragraph 2. 4.
Paragraphs 2 and 5 shall not preclude the exchange of information: (a) within a Member State, where there are two or more competent authorities; or (b) within a Member State or between Member States, between competent authorities; and - authorities with public responsibility for the supervision of credit institutions, investment undertakings, insurance undertakings and other financial organizations and the authorities responsible for the supervision of financial markets, - bodies involved in the liquidation or bankruptcy of Ucits and other similar procedures and of undertakings contributing towards their business activity, - persons responsible for carrying out statutory audits of the accounts of insurance undertakings, credit institutions, investment undertakings and other financial institutions, in the performance of their supervisory functions, or the disclosure to bodies which administer compensation schemes of information necessary for the performance of their functions.
Such information shall be subject to the conditions of professional secrecy imposed in paragraph 2. 7.
Notwithstanding paragraphs 2 to 5, Member States may authorize exchanges of information between the competent authorities and: - the authorities responsible for overseeing the bodies involved in the liquidation and bankruptcy of financial undertakings and other similar procedures, or - the authorities responsible for overseeing persons charged with carrying out statutory audits of the accounts of insurance undertakings, credit institutions, investment firms and other financial institutions.
Notwithstanding paragraphs 2 to 5, Member States may, with the aim of strengthening the stability, including integrity, of the financial system, authorize the exchange of information between the competent authorities and the authorities or bodies responsible under the law for the detection and investigation of breaches of company law.
Before 31 December 2000, the Commission shall draw up a report on the application of this paragraph. 9.
This Article shall not prevent the competent authorities from communicating the information referred to in paragraphs 2 to 5 to a clearing house or other similar body recognized under national law for the provision of clearing or settlement services for one of their Member State's markets if they consider that it is necessary to communicate the information in order to ensure the proper functioning of those bodies in relation to defaults or potential defaults by market participants.
The information received in this context shall be subject to the conditions of professional secrecy imposed in paragraph 2.
Member States shall, however, ensure that information received under paragraph 3 may not be disclosed in the circumstances referred to in this paragraph without the express consent of the competent authorities which disclosed it. 11.
In addition, notwithstanding the provisions referred to in paragraphs 2 and 5, Member States may, by virtue of provisions laid down by law, authorize the disclosure of certain information to other departments of their central government administrations responsible for legislation on the supervision of Ucits and of undertakings contributing towards their business activity, credit institutions, financial institutions, investment undertakings and insurance undertakings and to inspectors instructed by those departments.
The disclosure in good faith to the competent authorities, by persons authorized within the meaning of Directive 84/253/EEC, of any fact or decision referred to in paragraph 1 shall not constitute a breach of any restriction on disclosure of information imposed by contract of by any legislative, regulatory or administrative provision and shall not involce such persons in liability of any kind. (*) OJ No L 126, 12. 5. 1984, p. 20. (**) OJ No L 222, 14. 8. 1978, p. 11.
Directive as last amended by Directive 90/605/EEC (OJ No L 317, 16. 11. 1990, p. 60).' Article 6 1.
Article 7 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 29 June 1995.
HAENSCH For the Council The President M.
Directive as last amended by Directive 89/646/EEC (OJ No L 386, 30. 12. 1989, p. 1). (5) OJ No L 228, 16. 8. 1973, p. 3.
Directive as last amended by Directive 92/49/EEC (OJ No L 228, 11. 8. 1992, p. 1). (6) OJ No L 63, 13. 3. 1979, p. 1.
Directive as last amended by Directive 92/96/EEC (OJ No L 360, 9. 12. 1992, p. 1). (7) OJ No L 141, 11. 6. 1993, p. 27. (8) OJ No L 375, 31. 12. 1985, p. 3.
Directive as amended by Directive 88/220/EEC (OJ No L 100, 19. 4. 1988, p. 31).
