Member States shall take all appropriate measures to ensure that the PPE referred to in Article 1 may be placed on the market and brought into service only if it preserves the health and ensures the safety of users without prejudice to the health or safety of other individuals, domestic animals or goods, when properly maintained and used for its intended purpose. 2.
This Directive shall be without prejudice to the right of Member States to lay down - in conformity with the Treaty - any requirements which they consider necessary to ensure user protection, provided that this does not give rise to modifications to PPE which could result in its non-conformity with the provisions of this Directive. 3.
Article 3 The PPE referred to in Article 1 must satisfy the basic health and safety requirements laid down in Annex II.
Member States shall regard as in conformity with the basic requirements referred to in Article 3 the PPE referred to in Article 8 (3) bearing the EC mark with respect to which the manufacturer is able to produce, on demand, the declaration of conformity referred to in Article 12. 2.
Member States shall presume that the PPE referred to in Article 8 (2) satisfies the basic requirements referred to in Article 3 if it bears the EC mark with respect to which the manufacturer is able to produce, on demand, not only the declaration referred to in Article 12 but also the certificate issued by the body of which notification has been given in accordance with Article 9 attesting to their conformity to the relevant national standards, transposing the harmonized standards, assessed at the EC type examination level in accordance with the first indent of Article 10 (4) (a) and (b).
Should a Member State or the Commission consider that the harmonized standards referred to in Article 5 do not completely satisfy the relevant basic requirements referred to in Article 3, the Commission or the Member State concerned shall refer the matter to the committee created pursuant to Directive 83/189/EEC (1), setting out its reasons.
The Member State concerned shall immediately inform the Commission of such action, indicating the reasons for its decision and, in particular, stating whether non-conformity is due to: (a) failure to comply with the basic requirements referred to in Article 3; (b) the unsatisfactory application of the standards referred to in Article 5; (c) a shortcoming in the standards referred to in Article 5. 2.
If the decision referred to in paragraph 1 is in response to a shortcoming in the standards, the Commission shall refer the matter to the Committee referred to in Article 6 (1) if the Member State concerned intends to adhere to its decision and shall initiate the procedure referred to in Article 6 (2). 3.
CHAPTER II CERTIFICATION PROCEDURES Article 8 1.
Before placing a PPE model on the market, the manufacturer or his authorized representative established in the Community shall assemble the technical documentation referred to in Annex III so that this can, if necessary, be submitted to the competent authorities. 2.
Prior to the series production of PPE other than those referred to in paragraph 3, the manufacturer or his authorized representative established in the Community shall submit a model for EC type-examination as referred to in Article 10. 3.
This category shall cover exclusively PPE intended to protect the wearer against: - mechanical action whose effects are superficial (gardening gloves, thimbles, etc.), - cleaning materials of weak action and easily reversible effects (gloves affording protection against diluted detergent solutions, etc.), - risks encountered in the handling of hot components which do not expose the user to a temperature exceeding 50 gC or to dangerous impacts (gloves, aprons for professional use, etc.), - atmospheric agents of a neither exceptional nor extreme nature (headgear, seasonal clothing, footwear, etc.), - minor impacts and vibrations which do not affect vital areas of the body and whose effects cannot cause irreversible lesions (light anti-scalping helmets, gloves, light footwear, etc.), - sunlight (sunglasses). 4.
This category shall cover exclusively: - filtering respiratory devices for protection against solid and liquid aerosols or irritant, dangerous, toxic or radiotoxic gases, - respiratory protection devices providing full insulation from the atmosphere, including those for use in diving, - PPE providing only limited protection against chemical attack or against ionizing radiation, - emergency equipment for use in high-temperature environments the effects of which are comparable to those of an air temperature of 100 gC or more and which may or may not be characterized by the presence of infra-red radiation, flames or the projection of large amounts of molten material, - emergency equipment for use in low-temperature environments the effects of which are comparable to those of an air temperature of 50 gC or less, - PPE to protect against falls from a height, - PPE against electrical risks and dangerous voltages or that used as insulation in high-tension work, - motor cycle helmets and visors; (b) the EC declaration of conformity referred to in Article 12 for all PPE.
Member States shall apply the criteria laid down in Annex V in assessing the bodies to be indicated in such notification.
EC TYPE-EXAMINATION Article 10 1.
The authorized representative shall be established in the Community. 3.
The application shall comprise: - the name and address of the manufacturer or his authorized representative and of the PPE production plant in question, - the manufacturer's technical file referred to in Annex III.
Where a body is not the body that issued the relevant EC type-approval certificate it shall contact the body of which notification has been given in the event of difficulties in connection with the assessment of the conformity of samples. 5.
CHAPTER III EC MARK Article 13 1.
The EC mark consists of the letters 'CE' followed by the last two figures of the year in which the mark was affixed and, in the event of the involvement of a notified body having carried out an EC examination of the type referred to in Article 10, its distinguishing number shall be added.
CHAPTER IV FINAL PROVISIONS Article 14 Any decision taken in implementation of this Directive and leading to restrictions on the marketing of PPE shall be accompanied by a detailed explanation of the grounds on which it is based.
Article 15 The Commission shall take the necessary steps to ensure that data concerning all the relevant decisions in connection with the management of this Directive are made available.
They shall apply those provisions from 1 July 1992. 2.
Article 17 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 21 December 1989.
CRESSON (1) OJ N° C 141, 30. 5. 1988, p. 14. (2) OJ N° C 12, 16. 1. 1989, p. 109, (3) OJ N° C 337, 31. 12. 1988, p. 37. (4) OJ N° L 109, 26. 4. 1983, p. 8. (5) OJ N° L 81, 26. 3. 1988, p. 75. (1) OJ N° L 109, 26. 4. 1983, p. 8. (2) OJ N° L 183, 29. 6. 1989, p. 9.
PPE designed and manufactured for private use against: - adverse atmospheric conditions (headgear, seasonal clothing, footwear, umbrellas, etc.), - damp and water (dish-washing gloves, etc.), - heat (gloves etc.). 4.
ANNEX II BASIC HEALTH AND SAFETY REQUIREMENTS 1.
Design principles 1.1.1.
Ergonomics PPE must be so designed and manufactured that in the foreseeable conditions of use for which it is intended the user can perform the risk-related activity normally whilst enjoying appropriate protection of the highest prossible level. 1.1.2.
Classes of protection appropriate to different levels of risk Where differing foreseeable conditions of use are such that several levels of the same risk can be distinguished, appropriate classes of protection must be taken into account in the design of the PPE. 1.2.
Innocuousness of PPE 1.2.1.
Absence of risks and other 'inherent' nuisance factors PPE must be so designed and manufactured as to preclude risks and other nuisance factors under foreseeable conditions of use. 1.2.1.1.
PPE incorporating components which can be adjusted or removed by the user Any PPE components which can be adjusted or removed by the user for the purpose of replacement must be so designed and manufactured as to facilitate adjustment, attachment and removal without tools. 2.10.
PPE for connection to another, external complementary device If PPE incorporates a system permitting connection to another, complementary, device, the attachment mechanism must be so designed and manufactured as to enable it to be mounted only on appropriate equipment. 2.11.
Impact caused by falling or projecting objects and collision of parts of the body with an obstacle Suitable PPE for this type of risk must be sufficiently shock-absorbent to prevent injury resulting, in particular, from the crushing or penetration of the protected part, at least up to an impact-energy level above which the excessive dimensions or mass of the absorbing device would preclude effective use of the PPE for the foreseeable period of wear. 3.1.2.
Prevention of falls from a height PPE designed to prevent falls from a height or their effects must incorporate a body harness and an attachment system which can be connected to a reliable anchorage point.
Protection against (static) compression of part of the body PPE designed to protect part of the body against (static) compressive stress must be sufficiently capable of attenuating its effects to prevent serious injury or chronic complaints. 3.3.
Protection against physical injury (abrasion, perforation, cuts, bites) PPE constituent materials and other components designed to protect all or part of the body against superficial injury caused by machinery, such as abrasion, perforation, cuts or bites, must be so chosen or designed and incorporated as to ensure that these PPE classes provide sufficient resistance to abrasion, perforation and gashing (see also 3.1) under the foreseeable conditions of use. 3.4.
Protection against heat and/or fire PPE designed to protect all or part of the body against the effects of heat and/or fire must possess thermal insulation capacity and mechanical strength appropriate to foreseeable conditions of use. 3.6.1.
PPE materials and other components which may be splashed by large amounts of hot products must also possess sufficient mechanical-impact absorbency (see 3.1).
The manufacturer's notes accompanying each PPE model intended for brief use in high-temperature environments must in particular provide all relevant data for the determination of the maximum permissible user exposure to the heat transmitted by the equipment when used in accordance with its intended purpose. 3.7.
Protection against cold PPE designed to protect all or part of the body against the effects of cold must possess thermal insulating capacity and mechanical strength appropriate to the foreseeable conditions of use for which it is marketed. (;) OJ N° L 137, 24. 5. 1986, p. 28. 3.7.1.
PPE materials and other components which may be splashed by large amounts of cold products must also possess sufficient mechanical-impact absorbency (see 3.1). 3.7.2.
Radiation protection 3.9.1.
Ionizing radiation 3.9.2.1.
Protection against external radioactive contamination PPE constituent materials and other components designed to protect all or part of the body against radioactive dust, gases, liquids or mixtures thereof must be so chosen or designed and incorporated as to ensure that this equipment effectively prevents the penetration of the contaminants under the foreseeable conditions of use.
The constituent materials and other components of these PPE classes must be so chosen or designed and incorporated as to provide the degree of user protection required by the foreseeable conditions of use without leading to an increase in exposure time as a result of the impedance of user gestures, posture or movement (see 1.3.2).
ANNEX VI MODEL EC DECLARATION OF CONFORMITY The manufacturer or his authorized representative established in the Community (¹): . . .
declares that the new PPE described hereafter (¹) . . . . .
is in conformity with the provisions of Council Directive 89/686/EEC and, where such is the case, with the national standard transposing harmonized standard N° ............ (for the PPE referred to in Article 8 (3)) is identical to the PPE which is the subject of EC certificate of conformity N° ............
issued by (³) (%) . . .
is subject to the procedure set out in Article 11 point A or point B (%) of Directive 89/686/EEC under the supervision of the notified body (³) . . .
