The fibre content of the product shall be at least 90 %.
Article 2 The environmental performance of the product group as defined in Article 1 shall be assessed by reference to the specific ecological criteria set out in the Annex.
Article 3 The product group definition and the criteria for the product group shall be valid for five years from the date on which this Decision takes effect.
Article 4 For administrative purposes the code number assigned to the product group shall be %quot%004%quot%.
Article 5 This Decision is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 4 May 2001.
For the Commission Margot Wallstrรถm Member of the Commission (1) OJ L 237, 21.9.2000, p. 1. (2) OJ L 19, 24.1.1998, p. 77. (3) OJ L 155, 28.6.2000, p. 63.
Where appropriate, other test methods may be used if their equivalence is accepted by the Competent Body assessing the application (for example if the equivalence is established by a calibration curve at 95 % significance).
Li = (emission of parameter i)/Ci (equation 1) (iii) The %quot%total load point sum%quot%, P, is calculated from equation 2 by adding the load points for each parameter.
The amount of AOX (as Cl) discharged from each pulp manufacturing site shall not exceed 0,50 kg per air dry tonne of pulp.
ENERGY USE The total consumption of electricity relating to the tissue-paper product shall be calculated as the sum of the electricity used in the pulp and the tissue paper production stages and shall not exceed: - 11 G joule (3000 kWh) electricity per tonne of paper produced.
Examples of such chloro-organic substances are epichlorohydrin (ECH). 1,3-dichloro-2-propanol (DCP) and 3monochloro-1,2-propanediol (MCPD). 5.
CONSUMER INFORMATION Box 2 of the eco-label shall include the following text: - low water pollution - low air pollution - low greenhouse gas emissions and electricity use.
Accredited laboratories or independent test institutes following the standard EN 45001 shall carry out measurements.
The laboratory of the pulp or paper manufacturer may, however, be approved for the analyses of discharges if any of the following conditions are fulfilled: - the relevant regulatory authorities accept the relevant sampling and measurements made in that laboratory, or - the manufacturer has a quality system which includes sampling and analysis supervision and is certified according to ISO 9001 or ISO 9002, or - is an official GLP (good laboratory practice) approved laboratory.
AOX shall be measured in accordance with ISO 9562.
Other test methods can be accepted if their equivalence is accepted by the Competent Body assessing the application (for example if the equivalence is established by a calibration curve at 95 % significance).
Table 2 Equivalents of CO2, fossil from non renewable fuels %gt%TABLE%gt% For grid electricity, the value quoted in the table shall be used for all sites within the European Union.
Table 3 Amines referred to in criterion 6 %gt%TABLE%gt% Fitness for use The applicant shall provide evidence to demonstrate that the product is fit for use.
Details of the test procedures shall be provided with the application. (1) Recycled fibres are defined as fibres collected from paper products after consumption or paper waste from the conversion stages according to the grades defined in European list of standard grades of recovered paper and board, (CEPI, February 1999).
