Council Directive 93/38/EEC of 14 June 1993 coordinating the procurement procedures of entities operating in the water, energy, transport and telecommunications sectors COUNCIL DIRECTIVE 93/38/EEC of 14 June 1993 coordinating the procurement procedures of entities operating in the water, energy, transport and telecommunications sectors THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular the last sentence of Articles 57 (2), 66, 100a and 113 thereof, Having regard to the proposal from the Commission(1) , In cooperation with the European Parliament(2) , Having regard of the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee(3) , 1.
Whereas restrictions on the free movement of goods and on freeedom to provide services in respect of supply and service contracts awarded in the water, energy, transport and telecommunications sectors are prohibited by the terms of Articles 30 and 59 of the EEC Treaty; 3.
Whereas Article 97 of the Euratom Treaty prohibits any restrictions based on nationality as regards companies under the jurisdiction of a Member State where they desire to participate in the construction of nuclear installations of a scientific or industrial nature in the Community or to provide the relevant service in the Community; 4.
Whereas these objectives also require the coordination of the procurement procedures applied by the entities operating in these sectors; 5.
Whereas among such excluded sectors are those concerning the provision of water, energy and transport services and, as far as Directive 77/62/EEC is concerned, the telecommunications sector; 8.
Whereas the field of services is best described, for the purpose of application of procedural rules and for monitoring purposes, by subdividing the services into categories corresponding to particular positions of a common classification; whereas Annexes XVI A and XVI B to this Directive refer to the United Nations CPC (Central Product Classification) nomenclature; whereas that nomenclature is likely to be replaced by a Community nomenclature in the future; whereas it is necessary to make provision for the possibility of adapting the reference made to the CPC nomenclature in Annexes XVI A and XVI B accordingly; 24.
Whereas the Community's or the Member States' existing international obligations must not be affected by the rules of this Directive; 32.
Whereas products, works or services must be described by reference to European specifications; whereas, in order to ensure that a product, work or service fulfils the use for which it is intended by the contracting entity, such reference may be complemented by specifications which do not change the nature of the technical solution or solutions set out in the European specification; 36.
Whereas Community undertakings should be granted access to the award of service contracts in third countries; whereas the Community should endeavour to remedy any situation whereby such access, in law or in fact, is found to be restricted and whereas it should be possible, under certain conditions, to take measures as regards access to service contracts covered by this Directive for undertakings of the third country concerned or for tenders originating in that country; 38.
A dominant influence on the part of the public authorities shall be presumed when these authorities, directly or indirectly, in relation to an undertaking: - hold the majority of the undertaking's subscribed capital, or - control the majority of the votes attaching to shares issued by the undertaking, or - can appoint more than half of the members of the undertaking's administrative, managerial or supervisory body; 3. 'affiliated undertaking' shall mean any undertaking the annual accounts of which are consolidated with those of the contracting entity in accordance with the requirements of the seventh Council Directive 83/349/EEC of 13 June 1983, based on Article 54 (3) (g) of the EEC Treaty on consolidated accounts(10) or, in the case of entities not subject to that Directive, any undertaking over which the contracting entity may exercise, directly or indirectly, a dominant influence within the meaning of paragraph 2, or which may exercise a dominant influence over the contracting entity or which, in common with the contracting entity, is subject to the dominant influence of another undertaking by virtue of ownership, financial participation, or the rules which govern it; 4. 'supply, works and service contracts' shall mean contracts for pecuniary interest concluded in writing between one of the contracting entities referred to in Article 2, and a supplier, a contractor or a service provider, having as their object: (a) in the case of supply contracts, the purchase, lease, rental or hire-purchase, with or without options to buy, of products; (b) in the case of works contracts either the execution, or both the execution and design or the realization, by whatever means, of building or civil engineering activities referred to in Annex XI.
Contracts which include the provision of services and supplies shall be regarded as supply contracts if the total value of supplies is greater than the value of the services covered by the contract; 5. 'framework agreement' shall mean an agreement between one of the contracting entities defined in Article 2 and one or more suppliers, contractors or service providers the purpose of which is to establish the terms, in particular with regard to the prices and, where appropriate, the quantity envisaged, governing the contracts to be awarded during a given period; 6. 'tenderer' shall mean a supplier, contractor or service provider who submits a tender and 'candidate' shall mean a person who has sought an invitation to take part in a restricted or negotiated procedure; service providers may be either natural or legal persons, including contracting entities within the meaning of Article 2; 7. 'open, restricted and negotiated procedures' shall mean the award procedures applied by contracting entities whereby: (a) in the case of open procedures, all interested suppliers, contractors or service providers may submit tenders; (b) in the case of the restricted procedures, only candidates invited by the contracting entity may submit tenders; (c) in the case of negotiated procedures, the contracting entity consults suppliers, contractors or service providers of its choice and negotiates the terms of the contract with one or more of them; 8. 'technical specifications' shall mean the technical requirements contained in particular in the tender documents, defining the characteristics of a set of works, material, product, supply or service, and enabling a piece of work, a material, a product, a supply or a service to be objectively described in a manner such that it fulfils the use for which it is intended by the contracting entity.
In the case of works contracts, they may also include rules for the design and costing, the test, inspection and acceptance conditions for works and techniques or methods of construction and all other technical conditions which the contracting entity is in a position to prescribe under general or specific regulations, in relation to the finished works and to the materials or parts which they involve; 9. 'standard' shall mean a technical specification approved by a recognized standardizing body for repeated or continuous application, compliance with which is in principle not compulsory; 10. 'European standard' shall mean a standard approved by the European Committee for Standardization (CEN) or by the European Committee for Electrotechnical Standardization (Cenelec) as a 'European Standard (EN)' or 'Harmonization Document (HD)', according to the common rules of those organizations, or by the European Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI) according to its own rules as a 'European Telecommunications Standard (ETS)'; 11. 'common technical specification' shall mean a technical specification drawn up in accordance with a procedure recognized by the Member States with a view to uniform application in all Member States and published in the Official Journal of the European Communities; 12. 'European technical approval' shall mean a favourable technical assessment of the fitness for use of a product for a particular purpose, based on fulfilment of the essential requirements for building works, by means of the inherent characteristics of the product and the defined conditions of application and use, as provided for in Council Directive 89/106/EEC of 21 December 1988 on the approximation of laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to construction products(11) .
This Directive shall apply to contracting entities which: (a) are public authorities or public undertakings and exercise one of the activities referred to in paragraph 2; (b) when they are not public authorities or public undertakings, have as one of their activities any of those referred to in paragraph 2 or any combination thereof and operate on the basis of special or exclusive rights granted by a competent authority of a Member State. 2.
Relevant activities for the purposes of this Directive shall be: (a) the provision or operation of fixed networks intended to provide a service to the public in connection with the production, transport or distribution of: (i) drinking water; or (ii) electricity; or (iii) gas or heat; or the supply of drinking water, electricity, gas or heat to such networks; (b) the exploitation of a geographical area for the purpose of: (i) exploring for or extracting oil, gas, coal or other solid fuels, or (ii) the provision of airport, maritime or inland port or other terminal facilities to carriers by air, sea or inland waterway; (c) the operation of networks providing a service to the public in the field of transport by railway, automated systems, tramway, trolley bus, bus or cable.
As regards transport services, a network shall be considered to exist where the service is provided under operating conditions laid down by a competent authority of a Member State, such as conditions on the routes to be served, the capacity to be made available or the frequency of the service; (d) the provision or operation of public telecommunications networks or the provision of one or more public telecommunications services. 3.
A contracting entity shall be considered to enjoy special or exclusive rights in particular where: (a) for the purpose of constructing the networks or the facilities referred to in paragraph 2, it may take advantage of a procedure for the expropriation or use of property or may place network equipment on, under or over the public highway; (b) in the case of paragraph 2 (a), the entity supplies with drinking water, electricity, gas or heat a network which is itself operated by an entity enjoying special or exclusive rights granted by a competent authority of the Member State concerned. 4.
The provision of bus transport services to the public shall not be considered to be a relevant activity within the meaning of paragraph 2 (c) where other entities are free to provide those services, either in general or in a particular geographical area, under the same condition as the contracting entities. 5.
The supply of drinking water, electricity, gas or heat to networks which provide a service to the public by a contracting entity other than a public authority shall not be considered as a relevant activity within the meaning of paragraph 2 (a) where: (a) in the case of drinking water or electricity: - the production of drinking water or electricity by the entity concerned takes place because its consumption is necessary for carrying out an activity other than that referred to in paragraph 2, and - supply to the public network depends only on the entity's own consumption and has not exceeded 30 % of the entity's total production of drinking water or energy, having regard to the average for the preceding three years, including the current year; (b) in the case of gas or heat: - the production of gas or heat by the entity concerned is the unavoidable consequence of carrying on an activity other than that referred to in paragraph 2, and - supply to the public network is aimed only at the economic exploitation of such production and amounts to not more than 20 % of the entity's turnover having regard to the average for the preceding three years, including the current year. 6.
The Commission shall revise Annexes I to X in accordance with the procedure in Article 40.
Member States which apply the provisions of paragraph 1 shall ensure, through the conditions of the authorization or other appropriate measures, that any entity: (a) observes the principles of non-discrimination and competitive procurement in respect of the award of supplies, works and service contracts, in particular as regards the information which the entity makes available to undertakings concerning its procurement intentions; (b) communicates to the Commission, under conditions to be defined by the latter in accordance with Article 40, information relating to the award of contracts. 3.
As regards individual concessions or authorizations granted before the date on which Member States apply this Directive in accordance with Article 45, paragraph 1 (a), (b) and (c) shall not apply, provided that at that date other entities are free to seek authorization for the exploitation of geographical areas for the purpose of exploring for or extracting oil, gas, coal or other solid fuels, on a non-discriminatory basis and in the light of objective criteria.
The Commission shall take a decision in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 40 (5) to (8).
In the context of provision of technical specifications to interested suppliers, contractors or service providers, of qualification and selection of suppliers, contractors or service providers and of award of contracts, contracting entities may impose requirements with a view to protecting the confidential nature of information which they make available. 4.
This Directive shall not limit the right of suppliers, contractors or service providers to require a contracting entity, in conformity with national law, to respect the confidential nature of information which they make available.
Contracting entities may regard a framework agreement as a contract within a meaning of Article 1 (4) and award it in accordance with this Directive. 2.
Where contracting entities have awarded a framework agreement in accordance with this Directive, they may avail themselves of Article 20 (2) (i) when awarding contracts based on that agreement. 3.
Where a framework agreement has not been awarded in accordance with this Directive, contracting entities may not avail themselves of Article 20 (2) (i). 4.
This Directive shall not apply to contracts or design contests which the contracting entities award or organize for purposes other than the pursuit of their activities as described in Article 2 (2) or for the pursuit of such activities in a non-member country, in conditions not involving the physical use of a network or geographical area within the Community. 2.
However, this Directive shall apply to contracts or design contests awarded or organized by the entities which exercise an activity referred to in Article 2 (2) (a) (i) and which: (a) are connected whith hydraulic engineering projects, irrigation or land drainage, provided that the volume of water intended for the supply of drinking water represents more than 20 % of the total volume of water made available by these projects or irrigation or drainage installations, or (b) are connected with the disposal or treatment of sewage. 3.
The contracting entities shall notify the Commission at its request of any activities they regard as excluded under paragraph 1.
The contracting entities shall notify the Commission at its request of all the categories of products or activities which they regard as excluded under paragraph 1.
The contracting entities shall notify the Commission at its request of any services which they regard as excluded under paragraph 1.
Article 10 This Directive shall not apply to contracts when they are declared to be secret by Member States, when their execution must be accompanied by special security measures in accordance with the laws, regulations or administrative provisions in force in the Member State concerned or when the protection of the basic security interests of that State so requires.
This Directive shall apply to contracts the estimated value, not of VAT, for which is not less than: (a) ECU 400 000 in the case of supply and service contracts awarded by entities exercising an activity defined in Article 2 (2) (a), (b) and (c); (b) ECU 600 000 in the case of supply and service contracts awarded by entities carrying out an activity defined in Article 2 (2) (d); (c) ECU 5 000 000 in the case of works contracts. 2.
For the purposes of calculating the estimated amount of a service contract, the contracting entity shall include the total remuneration of the service provider, taking account of the elements specified in paragraphs 3 to 13. 3.
In the case of supply contracts for lease, rental or hire-purchase, the basis for calculating the contract value shall be: (a) in the case of fixed-term contracts, where their term is 12 months or less, the estimated total value for the contract's duration, or, where their term exceeds 12 months, the contract's total value including the estimated residual value; (b) in the case of contracts for an indefinite period or in cases where there is doubt as to the duration of the contracts, the anticipated total instalments to be paid in the first four years. 5.
In the case of service contracts which do not indicate a total cost, the basis for calculating the estimated contract value shall be: - for fixed-term contracts, where their term is 48 months or less, the total value for their whole duration, - for contracts without a fixed term or for a term exceeding 48 months, the monthly value multiplied by 48. 6.
Where a proposed supply or service contract expressly specifies option clauses, the basis for calculating the contract value shall be the highest possible total purchase, lease, rental or hire-purchase permissible, inclusive of the option clauses. 7.
In the case of a procurement of supplies or services over a given period by means of a series of contracts to be awarded to one or more suppliers or service providers or of contracts which are to be renewed, the contract value shall be calculated on the basis of: (a) the total value of contracts with similar characteristics which were awarded over the previous financial year or 12 months, adjusted where possible for anticipated changes in quantity or value over the subsequent twelve months; or (b) the aggregate value of contracts to be awarded during the 12 months following the first award or during the whole term of the contract, where this is longer than 12 months. 8.
The basis for calculating the estimated value of a contract including both supplies and services shall be the total value of the supplies and services, regardless of their respective values.
The basis for calculating the value of a framework agreement shall be the estimated maximum value of all the contracts envisaged for the period in question. 10.
For the purposes of paragraph 1, contracting entities shall include in the estimated value of a works contract the value of any supplies or services necessary for the execution of the contracts which they make available to the contractor. 12.
The value of supplies or services which are not necessary for the execution of a particular works contract may not be added to that of the works contract with the result of avoiding application of this Directive to the procurement of those supplies or services. 13.
TITLE II Two-tier application Article 15 Supply and works contracts and contracts which have as their object services listed in Annex XVI A shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions of Titles III, IV and V.
Article 16 Contracts which have as their object services listed in Annex XVI B shall be awarded in accordance with Articles 18 and 24.
Article 17 Contracts which have as their object services listed in both Annexes XVI A and XVI B shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions of Titles III, IV and V where the value of the services listed in Annex XVI A is greater than the value of the services listed in Annex XVI B.
Where this is not the case, they shall be awarded in accordance with Articles 18 and 24.
TITLE III Technical specifications and standards Article 18 1.
Contracting entities shall include the technical specifications in the general documents or the contract documents relating to each contract. 2.
Notices published pursuant to Article 21 (1) (a) or Article 21 (2) (a) shall indicate any recourse to the derogations referred to in paragraph 6. 8.
TITLE IV Procedures for the award of contracts Article 20 1.
Contracting entities may choose any of the procedures described in Article 1 (7), provided that, subject to paragraph 2, a call for competition has been made in accordance with Article 21. 2.
In the case of supplies, works or service contracts, the call for competition may be made: (a) by means of a notice drawn up in accordance with Annex XII A, B or C; or (b) by means of a periodic indicative notice drawn up in accordance with Annex XIV; or (c) by means of a notice on the existence of a qualification system drawn up in accordance with Annex XIII. 2.
When a call for competition is made by means of a periodic indicative notice: (a) the notice must refer specifically to the supplies, works or services which will be the subject of the contract to be awarded; (b) the notice must indicate that the contract will be awarded by restricted or negotiated procedure without further publication of a notice of a call for competition and invite interested undertakings to express their interest in writing; (c) contracting entities shall subsequently invite all candidates to confirm their interest on the basis of detailed information on the contract concerned before beginning the selection of tenderers or participants in negotiations. 2.
In the case of design contests, the call for competition shall be made by means of a notice drawn up in accordance with Annex XVII. 5.
Contracting entities shall make known, at least once a year, by means of a periodic indicative notice: (a) in the case of supply contracts, the total of the contracts for each product area of which the estimated value, taking into account the provisions of Article 14, is equal to or greater than ECU 750 000, and which they intend to award over the following twelve months; (b) in the case of works contracts, the essential characteristics of the works contracts which the contracting entities intend to award, the estimated value of which is not less than the threshold laid down in Article 14 (1). (c) in the case of service contracts, the estimated total value of the service contracts in each of the categories of services listed in Annex XVI A which they intend to award over the following 12 months, where such estimated total value, taking into account the provisions of Article 14, is equal to or greater than ECU 750 000. 2.
The notice shall be drawn up in accordance with Annex XIV and published in the Official Journal of the European Communities. 3.
This Article shall apply to design contests organized as part of a procedure leading to the award of a service contract the estimated value net of VAT for which is not less than the value referred to in Article 14 (1). 2.
This Article shall apply to all design contests where the total amount of contest prizes and payments to participants is not less than ECU 400 000 for design contests organized by entities exercising an activity referred to in Article 2 (2) (a), (b) and (c) and ECU 600 000 for design contests organized by entities exercising an activity referred to in Article 2 (2) (d). 3.
The admission of participants to design contests shall not be limited: - by reference to the territory or part of the territory of a Member State, - on the grounds that, under the law of the Member State in which the contest is organized, they would have been required to be either natural or legal persons. 5.
Contracting entities which have awarded a contract or organized a design contest shall communicate to the Commission, within two months of the award of the contract and under conditions to be laid down by the Commission in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 40, the results of the awarding procedure by means of a notice drawn up in accordance with Annex XV or Annex XVIII. 2.
Contracting entities awarding service contracts within category No 8 of Annex XVI A to which Article 20 (2) (b) applies need mention, concerning point 3 of Annex XV, only the main title thereof within the meaning of the classification of Annex XVI.
In the case listed in Annex XVI B, the contracting entites shall indicate in the notice whether they agree on its publication. 4.
The contracting entities must be able to supply proof of the date of dispatch of the notices referred to in Articles 20 to 24. 2.
In exceptional cases it shall endeavour to publish the notice referred to in Article 21 (1) (a) within five days in response to a request by the contracting entity and provided that the notice has been sent to the Office by electronic mail, telex or telefax.
Each edition of the Official Journal of the European Communities which contains one or more notices shall reproduce the model notice or notices on which the published notice or notices is/are based. 4.
Contracts or design contests in respect of which a notice is published in the Official Journal of the European Communities pursuant to Article 21 (1) or (4) shall not be published in any other way before that notice has been dispatched to the Office for Official Publications of the European Communities.
In restricted procedures and in negotiated procedures with a prior call for competition, the following arrangements shall apply: (a) the time limit for receipt of requests to participate, in response to a notice published in accordance with Article 21 (1) (a) or in response to an invitation from a contracting entity in accordance with Artice 21 (2) (c), shall, as a general rule, be at least five weeks from the date of dispatch of the notice or invitation and shall in any case not be less than the time limit for publication laid down in Article 25 (3), plus 10 days; (b) the time limit for receipt of tenders may be fixed by mutual agreement between the contracting entity and the selected candidates, provided that all tenderers are given equal time to prepare and submit tenders; (c) where it is not possible to reach agreement on the time limit for the receipt of tenders, the contracting entity shall fix a time limit which shall, as a general rule, be at least three weeks and shall in any case not be less than 10 days from the date of the invitation to tender; the time allowed shall be sufficiently long to take account in particular of the factors mentioned in Article 28 (3).
Article 27 In the contract documents, the contracting entity may ask the tenderer to indicate in his tender any share of the contract which he may intend to subcontract to third parties.
The contracting entity may state in the contract documents, or be obliged by a Member State so to do, the authority or authorities from which a tenderer may obtain the appropriate information on the obligations relating to the employment protection provisions and the working conditions which are in force in the Member State, region or locality in which the works or services are to be executed or performed and which shall be applicable to the works carried out or the services performed on site during the performance of the contract. 2.
TITLE V Qualification, selection and award Article 30 1.
Where a contracting entity considers that the qualification system of certain third entities or bodies meets its requirements, it shall communicate to interested suppliers, contractors and service providers the names of such third entities or bodies. 4.
In reaching their decision as to qualification or when the criteria and rules are being updated, contracting entities may not: - impose conditions of an administrative, technical or financial nature on some suppliers, contractors or service providers which are not imposed on others, - require tests or proof which duplicate objective evidence already available. 6.
A written record of qualified suppliers, contractors or service providers shall be kept and it may be divided into categories, according to the type of contract for which the qualification is valid. 8.
The qualification system shall be the subject of a notice drawn up in accordance with Annex XIII and published in the Official Journal of the European Communities, indicating the purpose of the qualification system and the availability of the rules concerning its operation.
The criteria used may include the criteria for exclusion specified in Article 23 of Directive 71/305/EEC and in Article 20 of Directive 77/62/EEC. 3.
Candidates or tenderers who, under the law of the Member State in which they are established, are entitled to carry out the relevant service activity shall not be rejected on the sole ground that under the law of the Member State in which the contract is awarded they would have been required to be either a natural or a legal person. 3.
Contracting entities may reject tenders which are abnormally low owing to the receipt of State aid only if they have consulted the tenderer and if the tenderer has been unable to show that the aid in question has been notified to the Commission pursuant to Article 93 (3) of the EEC Treaty or has received the Commission's approval.
Article 27 (1) shall not apply where a Member State bases the award of contracts on other criteria, within the framework of rules in force at the time of adoption of this Directive, the aim of which is to give preference to certain tenderers, provided that the rules invoked are compatible with the Treaty. 2.
Without prejudice to paragraph 1, this Directive shall not prevent, until 31 December 1992, the application of national provisions in force on the award of supply or works contracts which have as their objective the reduction of regional disparities and the promotion of job creation in disadvantaged regions or those suffering from industrial decline, provided that the provisions concerned are compatible with the EEC Treaty and with the Community's international obligations.
This Article shall apply to tenders comprising products originating in third countries with which the Community has not concluded, multilaterally or bilaterally, an agreement ensuring comparable and effective access for Community undertakings to the markets of those third countries.
Any tender made for the award of a supply contract may be rejected where the proportion of the products originating in third countries, as determined in accordance with Council Regulation (EEC) No 802/68 of 27 June 1968 on the common definition of the concept of the origin of goods (16) , exceeds 50 % of the total value of the products constituting the tender.
The prices of these tenders shall be considered equivalent for the purposes of this Article, if the price difference does not exceed 3 %. 4.
Whenever the Commission establishes, on the basis of either the reports referred to in paragraph 2 or other information, that with regard to the award of service contracts a third country: (a) does not grant Community undertakings effective access comparable to that granted by the Community to undertakings from that country; (b) does not grant Community undertakings national treatment or the same competitive opportunities as are available to national undertakings; or (c) grants undertakings from other third countries more favourable treatment than Community undertakings, it must approach the third country concerned to try to remedy the situation. 4.
The Council shall act by qualified majority as soon as possible.
The Commission may propose these measures on its own initiative or at the request of a Member State. 5.
TITLE VI Final provisions Article 38 1.
The value in national currencies of the thresholds specified in Article 14 shall, in principle, be revised every two years with effect from the date provided for in Directive 77/62/EEC as far as the thresholds for supply and service contracts are concerned and from the date provided for in Directive 71/305/EEC as far as the thresholds for works contracts are concerned.
The Commission shall be assisted, as regards procurement by the contracting entities exercising an activity referred to in Article 2 (2) (d), by a Committee of an advisory nature which shall be the Advisory Committee on Telecommunications Procurement.
The Commission shall consult this Committee on: (a) amendments to Annex X; (b) revision of the currency values of the thresholds; (c) the rules concerning contracts awarded under international agreements; (d) the review of the application of this Directive; (e) the procedures described in Article 40 (2) relating to notices and statistical reports.
Annexes I to X shall be revised in accordance with the procedure laid down in paragraphs 4 to 8 with a view to ensuring that they fulfil the criteria of Article 2. 2.
The conditions for the presentation, dispatch, reception, translation, keeping and distribution of the notices referred to in Articles 21, 22 and 24 and of the statistical reports provided for in Article 42 shall be established, for the purposes of simplification, in accordance with the procedure laid down in paragraphs 4 to 8. 3.
The nomenclature cited in Annexes XVI A and XVI B and the references in the notices to particular headings of the nomenclature may be amended in accordance with the procedure laid down in paragraphs 4 to 8. 4.
The Commission shall be assisted by the Advisory Committee for Public Contracts and, in the case of the revision of Annex X, by the Advisory Committee on Telecommunications Procurement provided for in Article 39 of this Directive. 6.
Contracting entities shall keep appropriate information on each contract which shall be sufficient to permit them at a later date to justify decisions taken in connection with: (a) the qualification and selection of contractors, suppliers or service providers and award of contracts; (b) recourse to derogations from the use of European specifications in accordance with Article 18 (6); (c) use of procedures without prior call for competition in accordance with Article 21 (2); (d) non-application of Titles II, III and IV in accordance with the derogations provided for in Title I. 2.
The Member States shall ensure, in accordance with the arrangements to be laid down under the procedure provided for in Article 40 (4) to (8), that the Commission receives each year a statistical report concerning the total value, broken down by Member State and each category of activity to which Annexes I to X refer, of the contracts awarded below the thresholds defined in Article 14 which would, if they were not below those thresholds, be covered by this Directive. 2.
Directive 90/531/EEC shall cease to have effect as from the date on which this Directive is applied by the Member States and this shall be without prejudice to the obligations of the Member States concerning the deadlines laid down in Article 37 of that Directive. 4.
Article 46 When Member States adopt the provisions referred to in Article 45, they shall contain a reference to this Directive or be accompanied by such reference on the occasion of their official publication.
The methods of making such a reference shall be laid down by the Member States.
Article 47 Member States shall communicate to the Commission the main provisions of national law, whether laws, regulations or administrative provisions, which they adopt in the field covered by this Directive.
Article 48 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Luxembourg, 14 June 1993.
For the Council The President J.
Februar 1937 and the erste Verordnung ueber Wasser- und Bodenverbaende vom 3.
Reguladora de las Bases del Régimen local and to Decreto Real no 781/1986 Texto Refundido Régimen local. - Canal de Isabel II.
DENMARK Danske Statsbaner (DSB) Entities providing bus services to the public (almindelig rutekoersel) on the basis of an authorization pursuant to lov nr. 115 af 29.
Juntas de Puertos y Estatutos de Autonomía and to the Decreto de 9 de abril de 1970, no 1350/70.
ANNEX XI LIST OF PROFESSIONAL ACTIVITIES AS SET OUT IN THE GENERAL INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION OF ECONOMIC ACTIVITIES WITHIN THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES /* Tables: see OJ */ ANNEX XII A.
OPEN PROCEDURES 1.
Name, address, telephone number, telegraphic address, telex and telecopier number of the contracting entity. 2.
Place of delivery, site or place of performance of service. 4.
Derogation from the use of European specifications, in accordance with Article 13 (6). 8.
Where appropriate, the legal form to be taken by the grouping of suppliers, contractors or service providers to whom the contract is awarded. 15.
Other information. 19.
Where appropriate, the reference to publication of the periodic information notice in the Official Journal of the European Communities to which the contract refers. 20.
Date of dispatch of the notice by the contracting entities. 21.
RESTRICTED PROCEDURES 1.
Name, address, telephone number, telegraphic address, telex and telecopier number of the contracting entity. 2.
Place of delivery, site or place of performance of service. 4.
Derogation from the use of European specifications, in accordance with Article 18 (6). 8.
Time limits for delivery or completion or duration of service contract. 9.
Other information. 17.
Where appropriate, the reference to publication of the periodic information notice in the Official Journal of the European Communities to which the contract refers. 18.
Date of dispatch of the notice by the contacting entities. 19.
NEGOTIATED PROCEDURES 1.
Name, address, telephone number, telegraphic address, telex and telecopier number of the contracting entity 2.
Place of delivery, site or place of performance of service. 4.
Derogation from the use of European specifications, in accordance with Article 18 (6). 7.
Where appropriate, the legal form to be taken by the grouping of suppliers, contractors or providers to whom the contract is awarded. 12.
Where applicable, date(s) of previous publications in the Official Journal of the European Communities. 15.
Other information. 16.
Where appropriate, the reference to publication of the periodic information notice in the Official Journal of the European Communities to which the contract refers. 17.
Date of dispatch of the notice by the contracting entities. 18.
Name, address, telephone number, telegraphic address, telex and telecopier number of the contracting entity. 2.
Purpose of the qualification system. 3.
Name, address, telephone number, telegraphic address, telex and telecopier number of the contracting entity or the service from which additional information may be obtained. 2.
Date of dispatch of the notice by the contracting entities. 6.
Date of dispatch of the notice by the contracting entities. 7.
For service contracts 1.
Name, address, telephone number, telegraphic address, telex and telecopier number of the contracting entity or the service from which additional information may be obtained. 2.
Other information (for example, indicate if a call for competition will be published later). 5.
Date of dispath of the notice by the contracting entities. 6.
Information for publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities 1.
Project description. 3.
Other information. 14.
Name, address, telegraphic address, telephone, telex and fax numbers of the contracting entity. 2.
Project description. 3.
Winner(s) of the contest. 6.
Other information. 8.
Date of receipt of the notice by the Office for Official Publications of the European Communities.
