For the Council The President E.
FITZGERALD (1) OJ No C 249, 27. 8. 1996, p. 10. (2) OJ No C 362, 2. 12. 1996. (3) OJ No L 149, 5. 7. 1971, p. 2.
Regulation as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 3096/95 (OJ No L 335, 30. 12. 1995, p. 10). (4) OJ No L 74, 27. 3. 1972, p. 1.
Regulation as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 3096/95 (OJ No L 335, 30. 12. 1995, p. 10). (5) OJ No L 230, 22. 8. 1983, p. 6. (6) OJ No L 335, 30. 12. 1995, p. 1.
ANNEX A PART I Council Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the Community (8) (9) (10) (11) CONTENTS Page TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS (Articles 1 to 12) . 8 TITLE II: DETERMINATION OF THE LEGISLATION APPLICABLE (Articles 13 to 17a) . 13 TITLE III: SPECIAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO THE VARIOUS CATEGORIES OF BENEFITS . 17 Chapter 1: Sickness and maternity Section 1: Common provisions (Article 18) . 17 Section 2: Employed or self-employed persons and members of their families (Articles 19 to 24) . 17 Section 3: Unemployed persons and members of their families (Article 25) . 19 Section 4: Pension claimants and members of their families (Article 26) . 20 Section 5: Pensioners and members of their families (Articles 27 to 34) . 20 Section 6: Miscellaneous provisions (Article 35) . 22 Section 7: Reimbursement between institutions (Article 36) . 23 Chapter 2: Invalidity Section 1: Employed or self-employed persons subject only to legislations under which the amount of invalidity benefits is independent of the duration of periods of insurance (Articles 37 to 39) . 23 Section 2: Employed or self-employed persons subject either only to legislations under which the amount of invalidity benefit depends on the duration of periods of insurance or residence or to legislations of this type and of the type referred to in Section 1 (Article 40) . 24 Section 3: Aggravation of invalidity (Article 41) . 25 Section 4: Resumption of provision of benefits after suspension or withdrawal - Conversion of invalidity benefits into old-age benefits - Recalculation of benefits granted under Article 39 (Articles 42 and 43) . 26 Chapter 3: Old age and death (pensions) (Articles 44 to 51) . 27 Chapter 4: Accidents at work and occupational disease Section 1: Right to benefits (Articles 52 to 59) . 32 Section 2: Aggravation of an occupational disease for which the benefit has been awarded (Article 60) . 34 Section 3: Miscellaneous provisions (Articles 61 and 62) . 35 Section 4: Reimbursements between institutions (Article 63) . 36 Chapter 5: Death grants (Articles 64 to 66) . 36 Chapter 6: Unemployment benefits Section 1: Common provisions (Articles 67 and 68) . 36 Section 2: Unemployed persons going to a Member State other than the competent State (Articles 69 and 70) . 37 Section 3: Unemployed persons who, during their last employment, were residing in a Member State other than the competent State (Article 71) . 38 Chapter 7: Family benefits (Articles 72 to 76) . 38 Chapter 8: Benefits for dependent children of pensioners and for orphans (Articles 77 to 79) . 39 TITLE IV: ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION ON SOCIAL SECURITY FOR MIGRANT WORKERS (Articles 80 and 81) . 41 TITLE V: ADVISORY COMMITEE ON SOCIAL SECURITY FOR MIGRANT WORKERS (Articles 82 and 83) . 42 TITLE VI: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS (Articles 84 to 93) . 43 TITLE VII: TRANSITIONAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS (Articles 94 to 98) . 45 ANNEXES Annex I: Persons covered by the Regulation . 49 Annex II: Special schemes for self-employed persons excluded from the scope of the Regulation pursuant to the fourth subparagraph of Article 1 (j) - Special childbirth allowances excluded from the scope of the Regulation pursuant to Article 1 (u) - Special non-contributory benefits within the meaning of Article 4 (2b) which do not fall within the scope of Regulation . 53 Annex IIa: Special non-contributory benefits . 57 Annex III: Provisions of social security conventions remaining applicable notwithstanding Article 6 of the Regulation - Provisions of social security conventions which do not apply to all persons to whom the Regulation applies . 60 Annex IV: Legislations referred to Article 37 (1) of the Regulation under which the amount of invalidity benefits is independent of the length of periods of insurance - Special schemes for self-employed persons within the meaning of Articles 38 (3) and 45 (3) of Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 - Cases referred to in Article 46 (1) (b) of the Regulation where the calculation of benefit in accordance with Article 46 (2) of the Regulation may be waived - Benefits and agreements referred to in Article 46b (2) of the Regulation . 76 Annex V: Concordance between the legislation of Member States on conditions relating to the degree of invalidity 81 Annex VI: Special procedures for applying the legislations of certain Member States . 85 Annex VII: Instances in which a person shall be simultaneously subject to the legislation of two Member States . 101 THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular Articles 51 and 235 thereof, Having regard to the proposal from the Commission, Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament, Having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee, Whereas the provisions for coordination of national social security legislations fall within the framework of freedom of movement for workers who are nationals of Member Sates and should contribute towards the improvement of their standard of living and conditions of employment; Whereas freedom of movement for persons, which is one of the cornerstones of the Community, is not confined to employed persons but also extends to self-employed persons in the framework of the freedom of establishment and the freedom to supply services; Whereas the considerable differences existing between national legislations as regards the persons to whom they apply make it preferable to establish the principle that the Regulation applies to all persons insured under social security schemes for employed persons and for self-employed persons or by virtue of pursuing employment or self-employment; Whereas it is necessary to respect the special characteristics of national social security legislations and to draw up only a system of coordination; Whereas it is necessary, within the framework of that coordination, to guarantee within the Community equality of treatment under the various national legislations to workers living in the Member States and their dependants and their survivors; Whereas the provisions for coordination must guarantee that workers moving within the Community and their dependants and their survivors retain the rights and the advantages acquired and in the course of being acquired; Whereas these objectives must be attained in particular by aggregation of all the periods taken into account under the various national legislations for the purpose of acquiring and retaining the right to benefits and of calculating the amount of benefits, and by the provision of benefits for the various categories of persons covered by the Regulation regardless of their place of residence within the Community; Whereas employed persons and self-employed persons moving within the Community should be subject to the social security scheme of only one single Member State in order to avoid overlapping of national legislations applicable and the complications which could result therefrom; Whereas the instances in which a person should be subject simultaneously to the legislation of two Member States as an exception to the general rule should be as limited in number and scope as possible; Whereas with a view to guaranteeing the equality of treatment of all workers occupied on the territory of a Member State as effectively as possible, it is appropriate to determine as the legislation applicable, as a general rule, that of the Member State in which the person concerned pursues employment of self-employment; Whereas in certain situations which justify other criteria of applicability, it is possible to derogate from this general rule; Whereas certain benefits foreseen under national laws may fall simultaneously within social security and social assistance, because of the personal scope of their application, their objectives and their manner of application, it is necessary to lay down a system of coordination, which takes into account the special characteristics of the benefits concerned, that should be included in the Regulation in order to protect the interests of migrant workers in accordance with the provisions of the Treaty; Whereas such benefits should be granted, in respect of persons falling within the scope of this Regulation, solely in accordance with the legislation of the country of residence of the person concerned or of the members of his or her family, with such aggregation of periods of residence completed in any other Member State as is necessary and without discrimination on grounds of nationality; Whereas it is necessary to lay down specific rules, in particular in the field of sickness and unemployment, for frontier workers and seasonal workers, taking account of the specific nature of their situation; Whereas in the field of sickness and maternity benefits, it is necessary to guarantee the protection of persons living or staying in a Member State other than the competent Member State; Whereas the specific position of pension claimants and pensioners and the members of their families calls for the provisions governing sickness insurance to adapted to their situation; Whereas for invalidity benefits a system of coordination should be drawn up which respects the specific characteristics of national legislations; whereas it is therefore necessary to make a distinction between legislations under which the amount of invalidity benefit is independent of the length of insurance and legislations under which the amount depends on the aforementioned length; Whereas the differences between the schemes in the Member States call for the adoption of rules of coordination which are applicable in the case of aggravation of invalidity; Whereas it is expedient that a system for the award of old-age benefits and survivors benefits be worked out where the employed or self-employed person has been subject to the legislation of one or more Member States; Whereas there is a need to determine the amount of a pension calculated in accordance with the method used for aggregation and pro rata calculation and guaranteed by Community law where the application of national legislation, including provisions concerning reduction, suspension or withdrawal, is less favourable than the aforementioned method; Whereas, to protect migrant workers and their survivors against an excessively stringent application of the national provisions concerning reduction, suspension or withdrawal, it is necessary to include provisions laying down strict rules for the application of these provisions; Whereas, in respect of benefits for accidents at work and occupational diseases, it is necessary, for the purpose of affording protection, that rules be laid down covering the situation of persons residing or staying in a Member State other than the competent Member State; Whereas it is necessary to lay down specific provisions for death grants; Whereas, in order to secure mobility of labour under improved conditions, it is necessary henceforth to ensure closer coordination between the unemployment insurance schemes and the unemployment assistance schemes of all the Member States; Whereas it is therefore particularly appropriate, in order to facilitate search for employment in the various Member States, to grant to an unemployed worker, for a limited period, the unemployment benefits provided for by the legislation of the Member State to which he was last subject; Whereas, with a view to determining the legislation applicable to family benefits, the criterion of employment ensures equal treatment between all workers subject to the same legislation; Whereas, in order to avoid unwarranted overlapping of benefits, there is a need to provide for rules of priority in the case of overlapping of the right to family benefits under the legislation of the competent State and under the legislation of the country of residence of the members of the family; Whereas the legislations of the Member States differ from each other and are specific in nature, it is considered necessary to draw up specific rules for the coordination of the national schemes providing benefits for dependent children of pensioners and for orphans; Whereas it is necessary to establish an Administrative Commission consisting of a government representative from each of the Member States, charged in particular with dealing with all administrative questions or questions of interpretation arising from the provisions of this Regulation, and to further cooperation between the Member States; Whereas it is desirable, within the framework of an Advisory Committee, to have the representatives of workers and employers examine the issues treated by the Administrative Commission; Whereas it is necessary to lay down special provisions which correspond to the special characteristics of the national legislations in order to facilitate the application of the rules of coordination, HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: TITLE I GENERAL PROVISIONS Article 1 (10) (15) Definitions For the purpose of this Regulation: (a) employed person and self-employed person mean respectively: (i) any person who is insured, compulsorily or on an optional continued basis, for one or more of the contingencies covered by the branches of a social security scheme for employed or self-employed persons; (ii) any person who is compulsorily insured for one or more of the contingencies covered by the branches of social security dealt with in this Regulation, under a social security dealt with in this Regulation, under a social security scheme for all residents or for the whole working population, if such person: - can be identified as an employed or self-employed person by virtue of the manner in which such scheme is administered or financed, or, - failing such criteria, is insured for some other contingency specified in Annex I under a scheme for employed or self-employed persons, or under a scheme referred to in (iii), either compulsorily or on an optional continued basis, or, where no such scheme exists in the Member State concerned, complies with the definition given in Annex I; (iii) any person who is compulsorily insured for several of the contingencies covered by the branches dealt with in this Regulation, under a standard social security scheme for the whole rural population in accordance with the criteria laid down in Annex I; (iv) any person who is voluntarily insured for one or more of the contingencies covered by the branches dealt with in this Regulation, under a social security scheme of a Member State for employed or self-employed persons or for all residents or for certain categories of residents: - if such person carries out an activity as an employed or self-employed person, or - if such person has previously been compulsorily insured for the same contingency under a scheme for employed or self-employed persons for the same Member State; (b) frontier worker means any employed or self-employed person who pursues his occupation in the territory of a Member State and resides in the territory of another Member State to which he returns as a rule daily or at least once a week; however, a frontier worker who is posted elsewhere in the territory of the same or another Member State by the undertaking to which he is normally attached, or who engages in the provision of services elsewhere in the territory of the same or another Member State, shall retain the status of frontier worker for a period not exceeding four month, even if he is prevented, during that period, from returning daily or at least once a week to the place where he resides; (c) seasonal worker means any employed person who goes to the territory of a Member State other than the one in which he is resident to do work there of a seasonal nature for an undertaking or an employer of that State for a period which may on no account exceed eight month, and who stays in the territory of the said State for the duration of this work; work of a seasonal nature shall be taken to mean work which, being dependent on the succession of the seasons, automatically recurs each year; (d) refugee shall have the meaning assigned to it in Article 1 of the Convention of the Status of Refugees, signed at Geneva on 28 July 1951; (e) stateless person shall have the meaning assigned to it in Article 1 of the Convention on the Status of Stateless Persons, signed in New York on 28 September 1954; (f) (i) member of the family means any person defined or recognized as a member of the family or designated as a member of the household by the legislation under which benefits are provided or, in the cases referred to in Articles 22 (1) (a) and 31, by the legislation of the Member State in whose territory such person resides; where, however, the said legislations regard as a member of the family or a member of the household only a person living under the same roof as the employed or self-employed person, this condition shall be considered satisfied if the person in question is mainly dependent on that person.
The provisions of Article 6 notwithstanding, the following shall continue to apply: (a) the provision of the Agreements of 27 July 1950 and 30 November 1979 concerning social security for Rhine boatmen; (b) the provisions of the European Convention of 9 July 1956 concerning social security for workers in international transport; (c) the provisions of the social security conventions listed in Annex III.
Article 8 Conclusion of conventions between Member States 1.
Two or more Member States may, as need arises, conclude conventions with each other based on the principles and in the spirit of this Regulation. 2.
Article 10a (10) Special non-contributory benefits 1.
The institution of a Member State under whose legislation entitlement to benefits covered by paragraph 1 is subject to the completion of periods of employment, self-employment or residence shall regard, to the extent necessary, periods of employment, self-employment or residence completed in the territory of any other Member State as periods completed in the territory of the first Member State. 3.
TITLE II DETERMINATION OF THE LEGISLATION APPLICABLE Article 13 (9) General rules 1.
That legislation shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of this Title. 2.
Subject to Articles 14 to 17: (a) a person employed in the territory of one Member State shall be subject to the legislation of that State even if he resides in the territory of another Member State or if the registered office or place of business of the undertaking or individual employing him is situated in the territory of another Member State; (b) a person who is self-employed in the territory of one Member State shall be subjected to the legislation of that State even if he resides in the territory of another Member State; (c) a person employed on board a vessel flying the flag of a Member State shall be subject to the legislation of the State; (d) civil servants and persons treated as such shall be subject to the legislation of the Member State to which the administration employing them is subject; (e) a person called up or recalled for service in the armed forces, or for civilian service, of a Member State shall be subject to the legislation of that State.
Articles 13 to 14d shall not apply to voluntary insurance or to optional continued insurance unless, in respect of one of the branches referred to in Article 4, there exists in any Member State only a voluntary scheme of insurance. 2.
Where application of the legislations of two or more Member States entails overlapping of insurance: - under a compulsory insurance scheme and one or more voluntary or optional continued insurance schemes, the person concerned shall be subject exclusively to the compulsory insurance scheme; - under two or more voluntary or optional continued insurance schemes, the person concerned may join only the voluntary or optional continued insurance scheme for which he has opted. 3.
However, in respect of invalidity, old age and death (pensions), the person concerned may join the voluntary or optional continued insurance scheme of a Member State, even if he is compulsorily subject to the legislation of another Member State, to the extent that such overlapping is explicitly or implicitly admitted in the first Member State.
The provisions of Article 13 (2) (a) shall apply to persons employed by diplomatic missions and consular posts and to the private domestic staff of agents of such missions or posts. 2.
Such right of option may be renewed at the end of each calendar year and shall not have retrospective effect. 3.
Article 17 (9) Exceptions to Articles 13 to 16 Two or more Member States, the competent authorities of these States or the bodies designated by these authorities may by common agreement provide for exceptions to the provisions of Articles 13 to 16 in the interest of certain categories of persons or of certain persons.
Article 17a (9) Special rules concerning recipients of pensions due under the legislation of one or more Member State The recipient of a pension due under the legislation of a Member State or of pensions due under the legislation of several Member States who resides in the territory of another Member State may at his request be exempted from the legislation of the latter State provided that he is not subject to that legislation because of the pursuit of an occupation.
TITLE III SPECIAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO THE VARIOUS CATEGORIES OF BENEFITS CHAPTER I SICKNESS AND MATERNITY Section 1 Common provisions Article 18 Aggregation of periods of insurance, employment or residence 1.
The competent institution of a Member State whose legislation makes the acquisition, retention or recovery of the right to benefits conditional upon the completion of periods of insurance, employment or residence shall, to the extent necessary, take account of periods of insurance, employment or residence completed under the legislation of any other Member State as if they were periods completed under the legislation which it administers. 2.
The provisions of paragraph 1 shall apply by analogy to members of the family who reside in the territory of a Member State other than the competent State in so far as they are not entitled to such benefits under the legislation of the State in whose territory they reside.
Article 20 Frontier workers and members of their families - Special rules A frontier worker may also obtain benefits in the territory of the competent State.
An employed or self-employed person and members of his family referred to in Article 19 who transfer their residence to the territory of the competent State shall receive benefits in accordance with the provisions of the legislation of that State even if they have already received benefits for the same case of sickness or maternity before transferring their residence.
The period during which benefits are provided shall, however, be that laid down under the legislation of the Member State in whose territory the members of the family are residing; (b) the authorization required under paragraph 1 (c) shall be issued by the institution of the Member State in whose territory the members of the family are residing. 4.
The fact that the provisions of paragraph 1 apply to an employed or self-employed person shall not affect the right to benefit of members of his family.
The competent institution of a Member State whose legislation provides that the calculation of cash benefits shall be based on average earnings or on average contributions, shall determine such average earnings or contributions exclusively by reference to earnings or contributions completed under the said legislation. 2.
The competent institution of a Member State whose legislation provides that the calculation of cash benefits shall be based on standard earnings, shall take account exclusively of the standard earnings or, where appropriate, of the average of standard earnings for the periods completed under the said legislation. 3.
Article 24 Substantial benefits in kind 1.
The Administrative Commission shall draw up the list of benefits to which the provisions of paragraph 1 apply.
An unemployed person who was formerly employed or self-employed, to whom the provisions of Article 69 (1) or the second sentence of Article 71 (1) (b) (ii) apply, and who satisfies the conditions of the legislation of the competent State for entitlement to benefits in kind and in cash, taking account where appropriate of the provisions of Article 18, shall receive for the period provided under Article 69 (1) (c): (a) benefits in kind provided on behalf of the competent institution by the institution of the Member State in which he seeks employment in accordance with the provisions of the legislation which the latter institution administers, as though he were insured with it; (b) cash benefits provided by the competent institution in accordance with the provisions of the legislation which it administers.
A totally unemployed person who was formerly employed and to whom the provisions of Article 71 (1) (a) (ii) or the first sentence of Article 71 (1) (b) (ii) apply, shall receive benefits in kind and in cash in accordance with the provisions of the legislation of the Member State in whose territory he resides, as though he had been subject to that legislation during his last employment, taking account where appropriate of the provisions of Article 18; the cost of such benefits shall be met by the institution of the country of residence. 3.
Article 25a (12) Contributions payable by wholly unemployed persons The institution which is responsible for granting benefits in kind and cash benefits to the unemployed persons referred to in Article 25 (2) and which belongs to a Member State whose legislation provides for deduction of contributions payable by unemployed persons to cover sickness and maternity benefits shall be authorized to make such deductions in accordance with the provisions of its legislation.
A pensioner who is entitled to a pension under the legislation of one Member State or to pensions under the legislation of two or more Member States and who is not entitled to benefits under the legislation of the Member State in whose territory he resides shall nevertheless receive such benefits for himself and for members of his family, in so far as he would, taking account where appropriate of the provisions of Article 18 and Annex VI, be entitled thereto under the legislation of the Member State or of at least one of the Member States competent in respect of pensions if he were resident in the territory of such State.
Article 28a Pensions payable under the legislation of one or more of the Member States other than the country of residence where there is a right to benefits in the latter country Where the pensioner entitled to a pension under the legislation of one Member State, or to pensions under the legislations of two or more Member States, resides in the territory of a Member State under whose legislation the right to receive benefits in kind is not subject to conditions of insurance or employment, nor is any pension payable, the cost of benefits in kind provided to him and to members of his family shall be borne by the institution of one of the Member States competent in respect of pensions, determined according to the rules laid down in Article 28 (2), to the extent that the pensioner and members of his family would have been entitled to such benefits under the legislation administered by the said institution if they resided in the territory of the Member State where that institution is situated.
Article 30 Substantial benefits in kind The provisions of Article 24 shall apply by analogy to pensioners.
Article 31 Stay of the pensioner and/or members of his family in a State other than the State in which they reside A pensioner entitled to a pension or pensions under the legislation of one Member State or to pensions under the legislation of two or more Member States who is entitled to benefits under the legislation of one of those States shall, with members of his family who are staying in the territory of a Member State other than the one in which they reside, receive: (a) benefits in kind provided by the institution of the place of stay in accordance with the provisions of the legislation which it administers, the cost being borne by the institution of the pensioner's place of residence; (b) cash benefits provided, where appropriate, by the competent institution as determined by the provisions of Article 27 or 28 (2), in accordance with the provisions of the legislation which it administers.
Article 33 (7) Contributions payable by pensioners 1.
The institution of a Member State which is responsible for payment of a pension and which administers legislation providing for deductions from pensions in respect of contributions for sickness and maternity shall be authorized to make such deductions, calculated in accordance with the legislation concerned, from the pension payable by such institution, to the extent that the cost of the benefits under Article 27, 28, 28a, 29, 31 and 32 is to be borne by an institution of the said Member State. 2.
For the purposes of Articles 28, 28a, 29 and 31, a pensioner who is in receipt of two or more pensions due under the legislation of a single Member State shall be regarded as a pensioner entitled to draw a pension under the legislation of one Member State, within the meaning of these provisions. 2.
Articles 27 to 33 shall not apply to a pensioner or to members of his family who are entitled to benefits under the legislation of a Member State as a result of pursuing a professional or trade activity.
Section 7 Reimbursement between institutions Article 36 (15) 1.
The refunds referred to in paragraph 1 shall be determined and made in accordance with the procedure provided for by the implementing Regulation referred to in Article 98, either on production of proof of actual expenditure or on the basis of lump-sum payments.
Two or more Member States, or the competent authorities of those States, may provide for other methods of reimbursement or may waive all reimbursement between institutions under their jurisdiction.
CHAPTER 2 (11) INVALIDITY Section 1 Employed persons or self-employed persons subject only to legislation under which the amount of invalidity benefits its independent of the duration of the periods of insurance Article 37 (11) General provisions 1.
This Article shall not affect pension increases or supplements in respect of children, granted in accordance with Chapter 8. 2.
Annex VI, part A, lists legislations of the kind mentioned in paragraph 1 which are in force in the territory of each of the Member States concerned.
Where the legislation of a Member State makes the granting of certain benefits conditional upon the periods of insurance having been completed only in a occupation which is subject to a special scheme for employed persons or, where appropriate, in a specific employment, periods completed under the legislation of other Member States shall be taken into account for the granting of these benefits only if completed under a corresponding scheme or, failing that, in the same occupation or, where appropriate, in the same employment.
If, account having been taken of the periods thus completed, the person concerned does not satisfy the conditions for receipt of these benefits, these periods shall be taken into account for the granting of the benefits under the general scheme or, failing that, under the scheme applicable to manual or clerical workers, as the case may be, subject to the condition that the person concerned has been affiliated to one or other of these schemes. 3.
If, account having been taken of the periods thus completed, the person concerned does not satisfy the conditions for receipt of these benefits, these periods shall be taken into account for the granting of the benefits under the general scheme or, failing that, under the scheme applicable to manual or clerical workers, as the case may be, subject to the condition that the person concerned has been affiliated to one or other of these schemes.
The institution of a Member State whose legislation was applicable at the time when incapacity for work followed by invalidity occurred shall determine, in accordance with that legislation, whether the person concerned satisfies the conditions for entitlement to benefits, taking account, where appropriate, of Article 38. 2.
A wholly unemployed employee to whom Article 71 (1) (a) (ii) or the first sentence of Article 71 (1) (b) (ii) applies shall receive the invalidity benefits provided by the competent institution of the Member State in whose territory he resides, in accordance with the legislation which it administers, as though he had been subject to that legislation during his last employment, account being taken, where appropriate, of Article 38 and/or Article 25 (2).
Section 3 Aggravation of invalidity Article 41 (11) 1.
The invalidity benefits provided under Article 39 shall be recalculated pursuant to Chapter 3 as soon as the beneficiary satisfies the qualifying conditions for invalidity benefits laid down by a legislation not listed in Annex IV, part A, or as soon as he receives old-age benefits under the legislation of another Member State.
CHAPTER 3 (11) OLD AGE AND DEATH (PENSIONS) Article 44 (11) General provisions for the award of benefits where an employed or self-employed person has been subject to the legislation of two or more Member States 1.
Where the legislation of a Member State makes the granting of certain benefits conditional upon the periods of insurance having been completed only in an occupation which is subject to a special scheme for employed persons or, where appropriate, in a specific employment, periods completed under the legislation of other Member States shall be taken into account for the granting of these benefits only if completed under a corresponding scheme or, failing that, in the same occupation or, where appropriate, in the same employment.
If, account having been taken of the periods thus completed, the person concerned does not satisfy the conditions for receipt of these benefits, these periods shall be taken into account for the granting of the benefits under the general scheme or, failing that, under the scheme applicable to manual or clerical workers, as the case may be, subject to the condition that the person has been affiliated to one or other of these schemes. 3.
Where the legislation of a Member State makes the granting of certain benefits conditional upon the periods of insurance having been completed only in an occupation subject to a special scheme for self-employed persons, periods completed under the legislations of other Member States shall be taken into account for the granting of these benefits only if completed under a corresponding scheme or, failing that, in the same occupation.
If, account having been taken of the periods referred to in this paragraph, the person concerned does not satisfy the conditions for receipt of these benefits, these periods shall be taken into account for the granting of the benefits under the general scheme or, failing this, under the scheme applicable to manual or clerical workers, as the case may be, subject to the condition that the person concerned has been affiliated to one or other of these schemes. 4.
The periods of insurance completed under a special scheme of a Member State shall be taken into account under the general scheme or, failing that, under the scheme applicable to manual or clerical workers, as the case may be, of another Member State for the acquisition, retention or recovery of the right to benefits, subject to the condition that the person concerned has been affiliated to one or other of these schemes, even if these periods have already been taken into account in the latter State under a scheme referred to in paragraph 2 or in the first sentence of paragraph 3. 5.
Where the conditions required by the legislation of a Member State for entitlement to benefits have been satisfied without having to apply Article 45 or Article 40 (3), the following rules shall apply: (a) the competent institution shall calculate the amount of the benefit that would be due: (i) on the one hand, only under the provisions of the legislation which it administers; (ii) on the other hand, pursuant to paragraph 2; b) the competent institution may, however, waive the calculation to be carried out in accordance with (a) (ii) if the result of this calculation, apart from differences arising from the use of round figures, is equal to or lower than the result of the calculation carried out in accordance with (a) (i), in so far as that institution does not apply any legislation containing rules against overlapping as referred to in Articles 46b and 46c or if the aforementioned institution applies a legislation containing rules against overlapping in the case referred to in Article 46c, provided that the said legislation lays down that benefits of a different kind shall be taken into consideration only on the basis of the relation of the periods of insurance or of residence completed under that legislation alone to the periods of insurance or of residence required by that legislation in order to qualify for full benefit entitlement.
Article 46b (11) Special provisions applicable in the case of overlapping of benefits of the same kind under the legislation of two or more Member States 1.
The provisions on reduction, suspension or withdrawal laid down by the legislation of a Member State shall not be applicable to a benefit calculated in accordance with Article 46 (2). 2.
In the latter case, the said provisions shall apply in the case of overlapping of such a benefit: (i) either with a benefit of the same kind, except where an agreement has been concluded between two or more Member States providing that one and the same credited period may not be taken into account two or more times; (ii) or with a benefit of the type referred to in (a).
Article 46c (11) Special provisions applicable in the case of overlapping of one or more benefits referred to in Article 46a (1) with one or more benefits of a different kind or with other income, where two or more Member States are concerned 1.
Where the benefit in question is calculated in accordance with Article 46 (2), the benefit or benefits of a different kind from other Member States or other income and all other elements provided for by the legislation of the Member State for the application of the provisions in the respect of reduction, suspension or withdrawal shall be taken into account in proportion to the periods of insurance and/or residence referred to in Article 46 (2) (b), and shall be used for the calculation of the said benefit. 3.
This provisions shall not apply to benefits, the amount of which does not depend on the length of insurance; (b) the procedure for taking account of overlapping periods is laid down in the implementing Regulation referred to in Article 98; (c) where, under the legislation of a Member State, benefits are calculated on the basis of average earnings, an average contribution, an average increase or on the relation which existed, during the periods of insurance, between the claimant's gross earnings and the average gross earnings of all insured persons other than apprentices, such average figures or relations shall be determined by the competent institution of that State solely on the basis of the periods of insurance completed under the legislation of the said State, or the gross earnings received by the person concerned during those periods only; (d) where, under the legislation of a Member State, benefits are calculated on the basis of the amount of earnings, contributions or increases, the competent institution of the State shall determine the earnings, contributions and increases to be taken into account in respect of the periods of insurance or residence completed under the legislation of other Member States on the basis of the average earnings, contributions or increases recorded in respect of the periods of insurance completed under the legislation which it administers; (e) where, under the legislation of a Member State, benefits are calculated on the basis of standard earnings or a fixed amount, the competent institutions of that State shall consider the standard earnings or the fixed amount to be taken into account by it in respect of periods of insurance or residence completed under the legislations of other Member States as being equal to the standard earnings or fixed amount or, where appropriate, to the average of the standard earnings or the fixed amount corresponding to the periods of insurance completed under the legislation which it administers; (f) where, under the legislation of a Member State, benefits are calculated for some periods on the basis of the amount of earnings and, for other periods, on the basis of standard earnings or a fixed amount, the competent institution of that State shall, in respect of periods of insurance or residence completed under the legislations of other Member States, take into account the earnings or fixed amounts determined in accordance with the provisions referred to in (d) or (e) or, as appropriate, the average of these earnings or fixed amounts, where benefits are calculated on the basis of standard earnings or a fixed amount for all the periods completed under the legislation which it administers, the competent institution shall consider the earnings to be taken into account in respect of the periods of insurance or residence completed under the legislations of other Member States as being equal to the national earnings corresponding to the standard earnings or fixed amounts; (g) where, under the legislation of a Member State, benefits are calculated on the basis of average contributions, the competent institution shall determine that average by reference only to those periods of insurance completed under the legislation of the said State. 2.
Article 49 (11) (15) Calculation of benefits where the person concerned does not simultaneously satisfy the conditions laid down by all the legislations under which periods of insurance or of residence have been completed or when he has expressly requested a postponement of the award of old-age benefits 1.
Article 51 (11) Revalorization and recalculation of benefits 1.
The authorization required under paragraph 1 (b) may be refused only if it is established that movement of the person concerned would be prejudicial to his state of health or to the medical treatment being given.
The authorization required under paragraph 1 (c) may not be refused where the treatment in question cannot be given to the person concerned in the territory of the Member State in which he resides.
Article 56 Accidents while travelling An accident while travelling which occurs in the territory of a Member State other than the competent State shall be deemed to have occurred in the territory of the competent State.
Article 57 (7) Benefits for an occupational disease where the person concerned has been exposed to the same risk in several Member States 1.
This division shall be carried out on the basis of the ratio which the length of the periods of old-age insurance or residence referred to in Article 45 (1) completed under the legislation of each of the States bears to the total length of the periods of old-age insurance or residence completed under the legislation of all the States at the dates on which the benefits commenced. 6.
The competent institution of a Member State whose legislation provides that the calculation of cash benefits shall be based on standard earnings shall take account exclusively of the standard earnings, or where appropriate, of the average of standard earnings for the periods completed under the said legislation. 3.
The competent institution of a Member State whose legislation provides that the amount of cash benefits shall vary with the number of members in the family shall take into account also the members of the family of the person concerned who are residing in the territory of another Member State, as if they were residing in the territory of the competent State.
Section 2 Aggravation of an occupational disease for which the benefit has been awarded Article 60 (7) (11) 1.
In the event of aggravation of an occupational disease for which an employed or self-employed person has received or is receiving benefit under the legislation of a Member State, the following rules shall apply: (a) if the person concerned has not, while in receipt of benefits, been engaged in an occupation under the legislation of another Member State likely to cause or aggravate the disease in question, the competent institution of the first Member State shall be bound to meet the cost of the benefits under the provisions of the legislation which it administers taking into account the aggravation; (b) if the person concerned, while in receipt of benefits, has pursued such an activity under the legislation of another Member State, the competent institution of the first Member State shall be bound to meet the cost of the benefits under the legislation which it administers without taking the aggravation into account.
Where the legislation of the competent State makes wholly cost-free benefits in kind conditional upon use of the medical service organized by the employer, benefits in kind provided in the cases referred to in Articles 52 and 55 (1) shall be deemed to have been provided by such a medical service. 3.
Where the legislation of the competent State includes a scheme relating to the obligations of the employer, benefits in kind provided in the case referred to in Articles 52 and 55 (1) shall be deemed to have been provided at the request of the competent institution. 4.
If the legislation of the country of stay or residence has several insurance schemes, the provisions applicable to employed or self-employed persons covered by Article 52 or 55 (1) shall be those of the scheme for manual workers in the steel industry.
The competent institution shall be obliged to reimburse the amount of benefits in kind provided on its behalf in accordance with the provisions of Articles 52 and 55 (1). 2.
The reimbursements referred to in paragraph 1 shall be determined and made in accordance with the procedures laid down by the implementing Regulation referred to in Article 98, on proof of actual expenditure. 3.
Two or more Member States, or the competent authorities of such States, may provide for other methods of reimbursement or waive reimbursement between the institutions coming under their jurisdiction.
CHAPTER 5 DEATH GRANTS Article 64 Aggregation of periods of insurance or residence The competent institution of a Member State whose legislation makes the acquisition, retention or recovery of the right to death grants subject to the completion of periods of insurance or residence shall take account, to the extent necessary, of periods of insurance or residence completed under the legislation of any other Member State as though they had been completed under the legislation which it administers.
The competent institution of a Member State whose legislation provides that the amount of benefits varies with the number of members of the family, shall take into account also members of the family of the person concerned who are residing in the territory of another Member State, as though they were residing in the territory of the competent State.
If the person concerned returns to the competent State before the expiry of the period during which he is entitled to benefits under the provisions of paragraph 1 (c), he shall continue to be entitled to benefits under the legislation of that State; he shall lose all entitlement to benefits under the legislation of the competent State if he does not return there before the expiry of that period.
The reimbursements referred to in paragraph 1 shall be determined and made in accordance with the procedure laid down by the implementing Regulation referred to in Article 98, on proof of actual expenditure, or by lump sum payments. 3.
Two or more Member States, or the competent authorities of those States, may provide for other methods of reimbursement or payment, or may waive all reimbursement between the institutions coming under their jurisdiction.
An unemployed person who was formerly employed and who, during his last employment, was residing in the territory of a Member State other than the competent State shall receive benefits in accordance with the following provisions: (a) (i) A frontier worker who is partially or intermittently unemployed in the undertaking which employs him, shall receive benefits in accordance with the provisions of the legislation of the competent State as if he were residing in the territory of that State; these benefits shall be provided by the competent institution. (ii) A frontier worker who is wholly unemployed shall receive benefits in accordance with the provisions of the legislation of the Member State in whose territory he resides as though he had been subject to that legislation while last employed; these benefits shall be provided by the institution of the place of residence at its own expense. (b) (i) An employed person, other than a frontier worker, who is partially, intermittently or wholly unemployed and who remains available to his employer or to the employment services in the territory of the competent State shall receive benefits in accordance with the provisions of the legislation of that State as though he were residing in its territory; these benefits shall be provided by the competent institution. (ii) An employed person, other than a frontier worker, who is wholly unemployed and who makes himself available for work to the employment services in the territory of the Member State in which he resides, or who returns to that territory, shall receive benefits in accordance with the legislation of that State as if he had last been employed there; the institution of the place of residence shall provide such benefits at its own expense.
An unemployed person may not claim benefits under the legislation of the Member State in whose territory he resides while he is entitled to benefits under the provisions of paragraph 1 (a) (i) or (b) (i).
CHAPTER 7 (8) FAMILY BENEFITS Article 72 (8) Aggregation of periods of insurance, employment or self-employment Where the legislation of a Member State makes acquisition of the right to benefits conditional upon completion of periods of insurance, employment or self-employment, the competent institution of that State shall take into account for this purpose, to the extent necessary, periods of insurance, employment or self-employment completed in any other Member State, as if they were periods completed under the legislation which it administers.
Article 72a (9) (14) Employed persons who have become fully unemployed An employed person who has become fully unemployed and to whom Article 71 (1) (a) (ii) or (b) (ii), first sentence, apply shall, for the members of his family residing in the territory of the same Member State as he, receive family benefits in accordance with the legislation of the State, as if he had been subject to that legislation during his last employment, taking account, where appropriate, of the provisions of Article 72.
Article 73 (8) Employed or self-employed persons the members of whose families reside in a Member State other than the competent State An employed or self-employed person subject to the legislation of a Member State shall be entitled, in respect of the members of his family who are residing in another Member State, to the family benefits provided for by the legislation of the former State, as if they were residing in that State, subject to the provisions of Annex VI.
Article 74 (8) Unemployed persons the members of whose families reside in a Member State other than the competent State An unemployed person who was formerly employed or self-employed and who draws unemployment benefits under the legislation of a Member State shall be entitled, in respect of the members of his family residing in another Member State, to the family benefits provided for by the legislation of the former State, as if they were residing in that State, subject to the provisions of Annex VI.
Article 75 (8) Provisions of benefits 1.
Family benefits shall be provided, in the cases referred to in Article 73, by the competent institution of the State to the legislation of which the employed or self-employed person is subject and, in the cases referred to in Article 74, by the competent institution of the State under the legislation of which an unemployed person who was formerly employed or self-employed receives unemployment benefits.
Where, during the same period, for the same family member and by reason of carrying on an occupation, family benefits are provided for by the legislation of the Member State in whose territory the members of the family are residing, entitlement to the family benefits due in accordance with the legislation of another Member State, if appropriate under Article 73 or 74, shall be suspended up to the amount provided for in the legislation of the first Member State. 2.
Benefits shall be granted in accordance with the following rules, irrespective of the Member State in whose territory the pensioner or the children are residing: (a) to a pensioner who draws a pension under the legislation of one Member State only, in accordance with the legislation of the Member State responsible for the pension; (b) to a pensioner who draws pensions under the legislation of more than one Member State: (i) in accordance with the legislation of whichever of these States he resides in provided that, taking into account, where appropriate, the provisions of Article 79 (1) (a), a right to one of the benefits referred to in paragraph 1 is acquired under the legislation of that State; or ii) in other cases in accordance with the legislation of the Member State to which he has been subject for the longest period of time, provided that, taking into account, where appropriate, the provisions of Article 79 (1) (a), a right to one of the benefits referred to in paragraph 1 is acquired under such legislation; if no right to benefit is acquired under that legislation, the conditions for the acquisition of such right under the legislations of the other Member States concerned shall be examined in decreasing order of the length of periods of insurance or residence completed under the legislation of those Member States.
Article 78 Orphans 1.
Orphans' benefits shall be granted in accordance with the following rules, irrespective of the Member State in whose territory the orphan or the natural or legal person actually maintaining him is resident: (a) for the orphan of a deceased employed or self-employed person who was subject to the legislation of one Member State only in accordance with the legislation of that State; (b) for the orphan of a deceased employed or self-employed person who was subject to the legislation of several Member States: (i) in accordance with the legislation of the Member State in whose territory the orphan resides provided that, taking into account, where appropriate, the provisions of Article 79 (1) (a), a right to one of the benefits referred to in paragraph 1 is acquired under the legislation of that State; (ii) in other cases in accordance with the legislation of the Member State to which the deceased had been subject for the longest period of time, provided that, taking into account, where appropriate, the provisions of Article 79 (1) (a), the right to one of the benefits referred to in paragraph 1 is acquired under the legislation of that State; if no right is acquired under that legislation, the conditions for the acquisition of such right under the legislations of the other Member States shall be examined in decreasing order of the length of periods of insurance or residence completed under the legislation of those Member States.
In a case where the effect of applying the rule laid down in Articles 77 (2) (b) (ii) and 78 (2) (b) (ii) would be to make several Member States competent, the length of the periods being equal, benefits within the meaning of Article 77 or 78, as the case may be, shall be granted in accordance with the legislation of the Member States to which the pensioner or the deceased was last subject. 3.
TITLE V ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON SOCIAL SECURITY FOR MIGRANT WORKERS Article 82 (B) Establishment, composition and working methods 1.
An advisory Committee on Social Security for Migrant Workers (hereinafter called 'the Advisory Committee`) is hereby established, with 90 members comprising, from each Member State: (a) two representatives of the government, of whom one at least must be a member of the Administrative Commission; (b) two representatives of trade unions; (c) two representatives of employers' organizations.
The list of members and their alternates shall be published by the Council in the Official Journal of the European Communities. 3.
The Advisory Committee shall be chaired by a representative of the Commission.
The chairman shall not vote. 5.
The Advisory Committee shall meet at least once each year.
Article 83 Tasks of the Advisory Committee The Advisory Committee shall be empowered, at the request of the Commission of the European Communities, of the Administrative Commission or on its own initiative: (a) to examine general questions or questions of principle and problems arising from the implementation of the Regulations adopted within the framework of the provisions of Article 51 of the Treaty; (b) to formulate opinions on the subject for the Administrative Commission and proposals for any revision of the Regulations.
TITLE VI MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS Article 84 (7) Cooperation between competent authorities 1.
Medical examinations provided for by the legislation of one Member State may be carried out at the request of the competent institution, in the territory of another Member State, by the institution of the place of stay or residence of the person entitled to benefits, under conditions laid down in the implementing Regulation referred to in Article 98 or, failing these, under conditions agreed upon between the competent authorities of the Member States concerned. 2.
Article 88 Transfers from one Member State to another of sums of money payable pursuant to this Regulation Where appropriate, money transfers effected in accordance with this Regulation shall be made in accordance with the relevant agreements in force between the Member States concerned at the time of transfer.
Article 89 Special procedures for implementing certain legislations Special procedures for implementing the legislations of certain Member States are set out in Annex VI.
Article 90 (8) . . . . . .
TITLE VII TRANSITIONAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS Article 94 (7) (8) (11) (12) Transitional provisions for employed persons 1.
No right shall be acquired under this Regulation in respect of a period prior to 1 October 1972 or to the date of its application in the territory of the Member State concerned or in a part of the territory of that State. 2.
All periods of insurance and, where appropriate, all periods of employment or residence completed under the legislation of a Member State before 1 October 1972 or before the date of its application in the territory of that Member State or in a part of the territory of that State shall be taken into consideration for the determination of rights acquired under the provisions of this Regulation. 3.
Any benefit which has not been awarded or which has been suspended by reason of the nationality or place of residence of the person concerned shall, on the application of the person concerned, be awarded or resumed with effect from 1 October 1972 or the date of its application in the territory of the Member State concerned or in a part of the territory of that State, provided that the rights previously determined have not given rise to a lump sum payment. 5.
This provision shall also apply to the other benefits referred to Article 78. 6.
The same provisions shall apply as regards the application of this Regulation in those territories which became a part of the Federal Republic of Germany on 3 October 1990 provided that the application referred to in paragraph 4 or 5 is submitted within two years of 1 June 1992. 7.
If an application referred to in paragraph 4 or 5 is submitted after the expiry of the two-year period after 1 October 1972 or following the date of its application in the territory of the Member State concerned, rights which have not been forfeited or which are not time barred shall have effect from the date on which the application was submitted, except where more favourable provisions of the legislation of any Member state apply.
The same provisions shall apply as regards the application of this Regulation in those territories which became a part of the Federal Republic of Germany on 3 October 1990 provided that the application referred to in paragraph 4 or 5 is submitted after two years have elapsed from 1 June 1992. 8.
Article 95 (6) (12) Transitional provisions for self-employed persons 1.
No right shall be acquired under this Regulation in respect of a period prior to 1 July 1982 or to the date of its implementation in the territory of the Member State concerned or in a part of the territory of that State. 2.
All insurance periods and, where appropriate, all periods of employments, of self-employment or of residence completed under the legislation of a Member State before 1 July 1982 or before the date of implementation of this Regulation in the territory of that Member State or in a part of the territory of that State shall be taken into consideration for the determination of rights acquired under this Regulation. 3.
Subject to paragraph 1, a right shall be acquired under this Regulation even though it relates to a contingency which materialized prior to 1 July 1982 or to the date of implementation of this Regulation in the territory of the Member State concerned or in a part of the territory of that State. 4.
Any benefit which has not been awarded or which has been suspended by reason of the nationality or place of residence of the person concerned shall, on the application of the person concerned, be awarded or resumed with effect from 1 July 1982 or from the date of implementation of this Regulation in the territory of the Member State concerned or in a part of the territory of that State, provided that the rights previously determined have not given rise to a lump-sum payment. 5.
This provision shall also apply to the other benefits referred to in Article 78. 6.
If an application referred to in paragraph 4 or 5 is submitted within two years of 1 July 1982 or of the date of implementation of this Regulation in the territory of the Member State concerned, the rights acquired under this Regulation shall have effect from that date, and the provisions of the legislation of any Member State concerning the forfeiture or limitation of rights may not be invoked against the persons concerned.
The same provisions shall apply as regards the application of this Regulation in those territories which became a part of the Federal Republic of Germany on 4 October 1990 provided that the application referred to in paragraph 4 or 5 is submitted within two years of 1 June 1992. 7.
If an application referred to in paragraph 4 or 5 is submitted after the expiry of the two-year period from 1 July 1982 or following the date of implementation of this Regulation in the territory of the Member State concerned, rights which have not been forfeited or are not barred by limitation shall have effect from the date on which the application was submitted, except where more favourable provisions of the legislation of any Member State apply.
The same provisions shall apply as regards the application of this Regulation in those territories which became a part of the Federal Republic of Germany on 3 October 1990 provided that the application referred to in paragraph 4 or 5 is submitted after two years have elapsed from 1 June 1992.
Article 95a (11) Transitional provisions for application of Regulation (EEC) No 1248/92 (1) 1.
Under Regulation (EEC) No 1248/92 no right shall be acquired for a period prior to 1 June 1992. 2.
All insurance periods or periods of residence completed under the legislation of a Member State before 1 June 1992 shall be taken into consideration for the determination of rights to benefits pursuant to Regulation (EEC) No 1248/92. 3.
Subject to paragraph 1, a right shall be acquired under Regulation (EEC) No 1248/92 even though relating to a contingency which materialized prior to 1 June 1992. 4.
If the application referred to in paragraph 4 is submitted after the expiry of the two-year period after 1 June 1992, rights which have not been forfeited or not barred by limitation shall have effect from the date on which the application was submitted, except where more favourable provisions of the legislation of any Member State apply.
Article 95b (14) Transitional provisions for application of Regulation (EEC) No 1247/92 (2) 1.
Regulation (EEC) No 1247/92 shall not provide any entitlement for periods prior to 1 June 1992. 2.
Subject to paragraph 1, a right shall be acquired pursuant to Regulation (EEC) No 1247/92 even where it relates to a contingency that occurred before 1 June 1992. 4.
If an application referred to in paragraph 4 or 5 is submitted after the expiry of the two-year period after 1 June 1992, rights which have not been forfeited or which are not time-barred shall have effect from the date on which the application was submitted, except where more favourable provisions of the legislation of any Member State apply. 8.
The application of Article 1 of Regulation (EEC) No 1247/92 may not result in the rejection of an application for a special non-contributory benefit awarded as a supplement to a pension, which was submitted by the person concerned who had satisfied the conditions for the award of this benefit before 1 June 1992, even where the person concerned resides on the territory of a Member State other than the competent Member State, provided that the application for the benefit is submitted within a period of five years starting from 1 June 1992. 10.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, any special non-contributory benefit, granted as a supplement to a pension, which has not been awarded or which has been suspended by reason of the residence of the person concerned on the territory of a Member State other than the competent Member State shall, on the application of the person concerned, be awarded or resumed with effect from 1 June 1992, in the first case from the date on which the benefit should have been awarded, and in the second case on the date of suspension of the benefit. 11.
Notifications received in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Communities..
ANNEX I (A) (B) (8) (9) (13) (14) (15) PERSONS COVERED BY THE REGULATION I.
BELGIUM Does not apply.
GERMANY If the competent institution for granting family benefits in accordance with Chapter 7 of Title III of the Regulation is a German institution, then within the meaning of Article 1 (a) (ii) of the Regulation: (a) 'employed person` means compulsorily insured against unemployment or any person who, as a result of such insurance, obtains cash benefits under sickness insurance or comparable benefits; (b) 'self-employed person` means any person pursuing self-employment which is bound: - to join, or pay contributions in respect of, an old-age insurance within a scheme for self-employed persons, or - to join a scheme within the framework of compulsory pension insurance.
Any person who is compulsorily or voluntarily insured pursuant to the provisions of Section 5 and 37 of the Social Welfare (Consolidation) Act 1981 shall be considered an employed person within the meaning of Article 1 (a) (ii) of the Regulation. 2.
Any person who is compulsorily or voluntarily insured pursuant to the provisions of section 17A of the Social Welfare (Consolidation) Act 1981 shall be considered a self-employed person within the meaning of Article 1 (a) (ii) of the Regulation.
ITALY Does not apply.
LUXEMBOURG Does not apply.
AUSTRIA Does not apply.
PORTUGAL Does not apply.
BELGIUM Does not apply.
GERMANY Does not apply.
FRANCE The term 'member of the family` means any person mentioned in Article L 512-3 of the Social Security Code.
GREECE Does not apply.
ITALY Does not apply.
LUXEMBOURG Does not apply.
NETHERLANDS Does not apply.
AUSTRIA Does not apply.
PORTUGAL Does not apply.
SWEDEN For the purpose of determining entitlement to benefits in kind pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 1 of Title III of the Regulation, 'member of the family` means a spouse or a child under the age of 18.
As regard the legislation of Gibraltar: any person regarded as a dependent within the meaning of the Group Practice Scheme Ordinance, 1973.
ANNEX II (A) (B) (8) (10) (15) (Article 1 (j) and (u) of the Regulation) I.
BELGIUM Does not apply.
Welfare system and/or with the character of social assistance or a charity, managed by the institutions not subject to the General Law on Social Security or to the Law of 6 December 1941.
Self-employed persons outside the agricultural sphere: (a) The supplementary old-age insurance schemes and the invalidity and death insurance schemes for self-employed persons, such as are mentioned in Articles L 658, L 659, L 663-11, L 663-12, L 682 and L 683-1 of the Social Security Code. (b) The additional benefits referred to in Article 9 of Law No 66.509 of 12 July 1966. 2.
Self-employed persons in agriculture: The types of insurance set out in Articles 1049 and 1234.19 of the Rural Code, concerning, on the one hand, sickness, maternity and old-age, on the other, accidents at work and occupational diseases of self-employed persons in agriculture.
GREECE Does not apply.
ITALY Does not apply.
LUXEMBOURG Does not apply.
NETHERLANDS Does not apply.
PORTUGAL Does not apply.
NETHERLANDS None.
UNITED KINGDOM None.
LUXEMBOURG None.
NETHERLANDS None.
UNITED KINGDOM None.
ANNEX IIa (B) (10) (12) (13) (14) (15) SPECIAL NON-CONTRIBUTORY BENEFITS (Article 10a of the Regulation) A.
April 1969). (c) Guaranteed family benefits (Law of 20 July 1971).
NETHERLANDS None.
ANNEX III (A) (B) (6) (7) (12) (14) (15) PROVISIONS OF SOCIAL SECURITY CONVENTIONS REMAINING APPLICABLE NOTWITHSTANDING ARTICLE 6 OF THE REGULATION - PROVISIONS OF SOCIAL SECURITY CONVENTIONS WHICH DO NOT APPLY TO ALL PERSONS TO WHOM THE REGULATION APPLIES (Articles 7 (2) (c) and 3 (3) of the Regulation) General comments 1.
BELGIUM-DENMARK No convention. 2.
BELGIUM-SPAIN None. 4.
BELGIUM-GREECE Articles 15 (2), 35 (2) and 37 of the General Convention of 1 April 1958. 6.
BELGIUM-IRELAND No convention. 7.
BELGIUM-ITALY Article 29 of the Convention of 30 April 1948. 8.
BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG Articles 2 and 4 of the Agreement of 27 October 1971 (Overseas social insurance). 9.
BELGIUM-NETHERLANDS Articles 2 and 4 of the Agreement of 4 February 1969 (Overseas occupation). 10.
BELGIUM-PORTUGAL Articles 1 and 5 of the Convention of 13 January 1965 (Social insurance for employees in the Belgian Congo and Rwanda-Urundi), in the wording contained in the Agreement concluded by an exchange of letters dated 18 June 1982. 12.
BELGIUM-FINLAND No convention. 13.
BELGIUM-SWEDEN No convention. 14.
BELGIUM-UNITED KINGDOM None. 15.
DENMARK-SPAIN No convention. 17.
DENMARK-GREECE No convention. 19.
DENMARK-IRELAND No convention. 20.
DENMARK-ITALY No convention. 21.
DENMARK-LUXEMBOURG No convention. 22.
DENMARK-NETHERLANDS No convention. 23.
DENMARK-PORTUGAL No convention. 25.
DENMARK-FINLAND Article 10 of the Nordic Convention on social security of 15 June 1992. 26.
DENMARK-SWEDEN Article 10 of the Nordic Convention on social security of 15 June 1992. 27.
GERMANY-SPAIN Articles 4 (1) and 45 (2) of the Social Security Convention of 4 December 1973. 29.
GERMANY-IRELAND No convention. 32.
GERMANY-NETHERLANDS (a) Article 3 (2) of the Convention of 29 March 1951. (b) Articles 2 and 3 of Complementary Agreement No 4 of 21 December 1956 to the Convention of 29 March 1951 (settlement of rights acquired under the German social insurance scheme by Dutch workers between 13 May 1940 and 1 September 1945). 35.
GERMANY-PORTUGAL Article 5 (2) of the Convention of 6 November 1964. 37.
SPAIN-FRANCE None. 41.
SPAIN-GREECE No convention. 42.
SPAIN-IRELAND No convention. 43.
SPAIN-ITALY Articles 5, 18 (1) (c) and 23 of the Convention on social security of 30 October 1979. 44.
SPAIN-NETHERLANDS Article 23 (2) of the Convention on social security of 5 February 1974. 46.
SPAIN-PORTUGAL Articles 4 (2), 16 (2) and 22 of the General Convention of 11 June 1969. 48.
SPAIN-FINLAND Article 5 (2) of the Convention on social security of 19 December 1985. 49.
SPAIN-SWEDEN Articles 5 (2) and 16 of the Convention on social security of 4 February 1983. 50.
SPAIN-UNITED KINGDOM None. 51.
FRANCE-GREECE Articles 16 (fourth subparagraph) and 30 of the General Convention of 19 April 1958. 52.
FRANCE-IRELAND No convention. 53.
FRANCE-LUXEMBOURG Articles 11 and 14 of the Complementary Agreement of 12 November 1949 to the General Convention of the same date (workers in mines and similar undertakings). 55.
FRANCE-NETHERLANDS Article 11 of the Complementary Agreement of 1 June 1954 to the General Convention of 7 January 1950 (workers in mines and similar undertakings). 56.
FRANCE-AUSTRIA None. 57.
FRANCE-PORTUGAL None. 58.
FRANCE-FINLAND None. 59.
FRANCE-SWEDEN None. 60.
FRANCE-UNITED KINGDOM The exchange of letters of 27 and 30 July 1970 concerning the position with regard to social security of United Kingdom teachers temporarily pursing their profession in France by virtue of the Cultural Convention of 2 March 1948. 61.
GREECE-IRELAND No convention. 62.
GREECE-ITALY No convention. 63.
GREECE-LUXEMBOURG No convention. 64.
GREECE-NETHERLANDS Article 4 (2) of the General Convention of 13 September 1966. 65.
GREECE-PORTUGAL No convention. 67.
GREECE-FINLAND Articles 5 (2) and 21 of the Convention on social security of 21 March 1988. 68.
GREECE-SWEDEN Articles 5 (2) and 23 of the Convention on social security of 5 May 1978 as amended by the Complementary Convention of 14 September 1984. 69.
GREECE-UNITED KINGDOM No convention. 70.
IRELAND-ITALY No convention. 71.
IRELAND-LUXEMBOURG No convention. 72.
IRELAND-NETHERLANDS No convention. 73.
IRELAND-AUSTRIA Article 4 of the Convention on social security of 30 September 1988 as regards persons residing in a third State. 74.
IRELAND-PORTUGAL No convention. 75.
IRELAND-FINLAND No convention. 76.
IRELAND-SWEDEN No convention. 77.
IRELAND-UNITED KINGDOM Article 8 of the Agreement of 14 September 1971 on social security. 78.
ITALY-LUXEMBOURG Articles 18 (2) and 24 of the General Convention of 29 May 1951. 79.
ITALY-NETHERLANDS Article 21 (2) of the General Convention of 28 October 1952. 80.
ITALY-PORTUGAL No convention. 82.
ITALY-FINLAND No convention. 83.
ITALY-SWEDEN Article 20 of the Convention onsocial security of 25 September 1979. 84.
ITALY-UNITED KINGDOM None. 85.
LUXEMBOURG-NETHERLANDS None. 86.
LUXEMBOURG-PORTUGAL Article 3 (2) of the Convention of 12 February 1965. 88.
LUXEMBOURG-FINLAND Article 5 (2) of the Convention on social security of 15 September 1988. 89.
LUXEMBOURG-UNITED KINGDOM None. 91.
NETHERLANDS-PORTUGAL Articles 5 (2) and 31 of the Convention of 19 July 1979. 93.
NETHERLANDS-FINLAND No convention. 94.
NETHERLANDS-SWEDEN Articles 4 and 24 (3) of the Convention on social security of 2 July 1976 as regards persons residing in a third State. 95.
NETHERLANDS-UNITED KINGDOM None. 96.
PORTUGAL-FINLAND No convention. 101.
PORTUGAL-SWEDEN Article 6 of the Convention on social security of 25 October 1978. 102.
FINLAND-SWEDEN Article 10 of the Nordic Convention on social security of 15 June 1992. 104.
FINLAND-UNITED KINGDOM None. 105.
SWEDEN-UNITED KINGDOM Article 4 (3) of the Convention on social security of 29 June 1987.
BELGIUM-DENMARK No convention. 2. . . . . . 3.
BELGIUM-SPAIN None. 4.
BELGIUM-GREECE None. 6.
BELGIUM-IRELAND None. 7.
BELGIUM-ITALY None. 8.
BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG Articles 2 and 4 of the Agreement of 27 October 1971 (overseas social security). 9.
BELGIUM-NETHERLANDS Articles 2 and 4 of the Agreement of 4 February 1969 (overseas occupation). 10.
BELGIUM-PORTUGAL Articles 1 and 5 of the Convention of 13 January 1965 (social security for employees of the Belgian Congo and Rwanda-Urundi) in the wording that appears in the Agreement concluded by exchange of letters dated 18 June 1982. 12.
BELGIUM-FINLAND No convention. 13.
BELGIUM-SWEDEN No convention. 14.
BELGIUM-UNITED KINGDOMNone. 15.
DENMARK-SPAIN No convention. 17.
DENMARK-FRANCE None. 18.
DENMARK-GREECE No convention. 19.
DENMARK-IRELAND No convention. 20.
DENMARK-ITALY No convention. 21.
DENMARK-LUXEMBOURG No convention. 22.
DENMARK-NETHERLANDS No convention. 23.
DENMARK-PORTUGAL No convention. 25.
DENMARK-FINLAND None. 26.
DENMARK-SWEDEN None. 27.
DENMARK-UNITED KINGDOM None. 28.
GERMANY-SPAIN Article 4 (1) and 45 (2) of the Social Security Convention of 4 December 1973. 29.
GERMANY-IRELAND No convention. 32.
GERMANY-FINLAND Article 4 of the Convention on social security of 23 April 1979. 38.
GERMANY-SWEDEN Article 4 (2) of the Convention on social security of 27 February 1976. 39.
SPAIN-FRANCE None. 41.
SPAIN-GREECE No convention. 42.
SPAIN-IRELAND No convention. 43.
SPAIN-ITALY Articles 5, 18 (1) (c) and 23 of the Convention on Social Security of 30 October 1979. 44.
SPAIN-NETHERLANDS Article 23 (2) of the Convention on Social Security of 5 February 1974. 46.
SPAIN-PORTUGAL Articles 4 (2), 16 (2) and 22 of the General Convention of 11 June 1969. 48.
SPAIN-FINLAND Articles 5 (2) of the Convention on social security of 19 December 1985. 49.
SPAIN-SWEDEN Articles 5 (2) and 16 of the Convention on social security of 4 February 1983. 50.
SPAIN-UNITED KINGDOM None. 51.
FRANCE-GREECE None. 52.
FRANCE-IRELAND No convention. 53.
FRANCE-ITALY Articles 20 and 24 of the General Convention of 31 March 1948. 54.
FRANCE-LUXEMBOURG None. 55.
FRANCE-NETHERLANDS None. 56.
FRANCE-AUSTRIA None. 57.
FRANCE-PORTUGAL None. 58.
FRANCE-FINLAND No convention. 59.
FRANCE-SWEDEN None. 60.
FRANCE-UNITED KINGDOM The exchange of letters of 27 and 30 July 1970 concerning the position with regard to social security of United Kingdom teachers temporarily pursuing their profession in France by virtue of the Cultural Convention of 2 March 1948. 61.
GREECE-IRELAND No convention. 62.
GREECE-ITALY No convention. 63.
GREECE-LUXEMBOURG No convention. 64.
GREECE-NETHERLANDS None. 65.
GREECE-PORTUGAL No convention. 67.
GREECE-FINLAND Article 5 (2) of the Convention on social security of 11 March 1988. 68.
GREECE-SWEDEN Article 5 (2) of the Convention on social security of 5 May 1978 as amended by the Complementary Convention of 14 September 1984. 69.
GREECE-UNITED KINGDOM No convention. 70.
IRELAND-ITALY No convention. 71.
IRELAND-LUXEMBOURG No convention. 72.
IRELAND-NETHERLANDS No convention. 73.
IRELAND-AUSTRIA Article 4 of the Convention on social security of 30 September 1988 as regards persons residing in a third State. 74.
IRELAND-PORTUGAL No convention. 75.
IRELAND-FINLAND No convention. 76.
IRELAND-SWEDEN No convention. 77.
IRELAND-UNITED KINGDOM None. 78.
ITALY-LUXEMBOURG None. 79.
ITALY-NETHERLANDS None. 80.
ITALY-PORTUGAL No convention. 82.
ITALY-FINLAND No convention. 83.
ITALY-SWEDEN Article 20 of the Convention on social security of 25 September 1979. 84.
ITALY-UNITED KINGDOM None. 85.
LUXEMBOURG-NETHERLANDS None. 86.
LUXEMBOURG-PORTUGAL Article 3 (2) of the Convention of 12 February 1965. 88.
LUXEMBOURG-FINLAND Article 5 (2) of the Convention on social security of 15 September 1988. 89.
LUXEMBOURG-SWEDEN Articles 4 and 29 (1) of the Convention on social security of 21 February 1985 as regards persons residing in a third State. 90.
LUXEMBOURG-UNITED KINGDOM None. 91.
NETHERLANDS-PORTUGAL Article 5 (2) of the Convention of 19 July 1979. 93.
NETHERLANDS-FINLAND No convention. 94.
NETHERLANDS-SWEDEN Articles 4 and 24 (3) of the Convention on social security of 2 July 1976 as regards persons residing in a third State. 95.
NETHERLANDS-UNITED KINGDOM None. 96.
AUSTRIA-SWEDEN (a) Articles 4 and 24 (1) of the Convention on social security of 7 November 1975 as amended by the Complementary Convention of 21 October 1982 as regards persons residing in a third State. (b) Point II of the Final Protocol to the said Convention as regards persons residing in a third State. 99.
PORTUGAL-FINLAND No convention. 101.
PORTUGAL-SWEDEN Article 6 of the Convention on social security of 25 October 1978. 102.
PORTUGAL-UNITED KINGDOM Article 2 (1) of the Protocol on medical treatment of 15 November 1978. 103.
FINLAND-SWEDEN None. 104.
FINLAND-UNITED KINGDOM None. 105.
SWEDEN-UNITED KINGDOM Article 4 (3) of the Convention on social security of 29 June 1987.
ANNEX IV (B) (11) (13) (15) (Articles 37 (2), 38 (3), 45 (3), 46 (1) (b) and 46 b (2) of the Regulation) A.
IRELAND Chapter 10 of Part II of the Social Welfare (Consolidation) Act 1981.
LUXEMBOURG None.
UNITED KINGDOM (a) Great Britain Sections 15 and 36 of the Social Security Act 1975.
Articles 16, 17 and 18 of the Social security Pensions (Northern Ireland) Order 1975.
Special schemes for self-employed persons within the meaning of Articles 38 (3) and 45 (3) of Regulation No 1408/71 A.
ITALY Pension insurance schemes for (Assicurazione pensioni per): - medical practitioners (medici), - pharmacists (farmacisti), - veterinarians (veterinari), - midwives (ostetriche), - engineers and architects (ingegneri ed architetti), - surveyors (geometri), - solicitors and barristers (avvocati e procuratori), - economists (dottori commercialisti), - accountants and industrial experts (ragionieri e periti commerciali), - employment consultants (consulenti del lavoro), - notaries (notai), - customs agents (spedizionieri doganali).
LUXEMBOURG None.
THE NETHERLANDS None.
UNITED KINGDOM None.
DENMARK All applications for pensions referred to in the law on social pensions, except for pensions mentioned in Annex IV part D.
LUXEMBOURG None.
THE NETHERLANDS All applications for old-age pensions under the law of 31 May 1956 governing general old-age insurance, as amended.
UNITED KINGDOM All applications for retirement and widow's pension determined pursuant to the provisions of Title III, Chapter 3 of the Regulation, with the exception of those for which: (a) during a tax year beginning on or after 6 April 1975: (i) the party concerned had completed periods of insurance, employment or residence under the legislation of the United Kingdom and of another Member State; and (ii) one (or more) of the tax years referred to in (i) was not considered a qualifying year within the meaning of the legislation of the United Kingdom; (b) the periods of insurance completed under the legislation in force in the United Kingdom for the periods prior to 5 July 1948 would be taken into account for the purposes of Article 46 (2) of the Regulation by application of the periods of insurance, employment or residence under the legislation of another Member State.
Agreements referred to in Article 46b (2) (b) (i) of the Regulation intended to prevent the same credited period being taken into account two or more times: Agreement of 20 July 1978 between the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany concerning various social security matters.
ANNEX V (15) CONCORDANCE BETWEEN THE LEGISLATIONS OF MEMBER STATES ON CONDITIONS RELATING TO THE DEGREE OF INVALIDITY (Article 40 (4) of the Regulation) %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% ANNEX VI (A) (B) (2) (7) (8) (9) (11) (12) (13) (14) (15) SPECIAL PROCEDURES FOR APPLYING THE LEGISLATIONS OF CERTAIN MEMBER STATES (Article 89 of the Regulation) A.
For the application of the provisions of Chapters 7 and 8 of Title III of the Regulation by the competent Belgian institution, a child shall be considered to have been brought up in the Member State in whose territory he resides. 3.
The rate of conversion is the annual mean of the conversion rates published in the Official Journal of the European Communities pursuant to Article 107 (5) of Regulation (EEC) No 547/72. 9.
Completed periods of insurance, employment or self-employment in a Member State other than Denmark shall be taken into account for admission to membership of an approved unemployment insurance fund in the same way as if they were periods of employment or self-employment completed in Denmark. 2.
In order to determine whether or not conditions for entitlement to daily allowances in the case of sickness or maternity laid down by the law of 20 December 1989 on daily allowances in the case of sickness or maternity have been satisfied, where the person concerned is no longer subject to Danish legislation during the periods of reference fixed by the abovementioned law: (a) account shall be taken of the insurance periods and employment periods fulfilled under the legislation of a Member State other than Denmark during the abovementioned reference periods during which the person concerned was not covered by Danish legislation, as if they are periods completed under the latter legislation, and (b) during the periods taken into account, a self-employed person or an employed person (in cases where, for the latter, remuneration cannot serve as a basis for calculating the daily allowances) are regarded as having had an average remuneration or salary of an amount equal to that on the basis of which the cash allowances are calculated in respect of the periods completed under Danish legislation during the reference periods. 7.
For the purpose of applying Article 67 of the Regulation, unemployment benefits for self-employed persons insured in Denmark shall be calculated in accordance with Danish legislation. 9.
If the general conditions are fulfilled, voluntary contributions may be paid to the German pension insurance scheme: (a) if the person concerned is domiciled or resident in the territory of the Federal Republic of Germany; (b) if the party concerned is domiciled or resident in the territory of another Member State and has at some point previously contributed, either compulsorily or voluntarily, to the German pension insurance scheme; (c) if the party concerned is a national of another Member State, is domiciled or resident in the territory of a third Member State, has contributed for at least 60 months to the German pension insurance scheme or was eligible for voluntary insurance pursuant to Article 232 of Book VI of the Social Code, and is not compulsorily or voluntarily insured under the legislation of another Member State. 5. . . . . . . 6. . . . . . . 7. . . . . . . 8. . . . . . . 9.
Periods of insurance completed under the legislation of another Member State, under a special old-age insurance scheme for farmers or, if no such scheme exists, as farmers under the general scheme, shall be taken into account to satisfy the conditions of minimum length of insurance required for the person to be subject to contribution within the meaning of Article 27 of the law on old-age insurance for farmers (Gesetz ber die Alterssicherung der Landwirte - GAL), always providing that: (a) the declaration on which the obligation to pay contributions is based shall have been lodged within the prescribed time, and (b) before lodging the declaration, the person concerned shall have been last subject to contribution under the old-age insurance scheme for farmers in the territory of the Federal Republic of Germany. 12.
Periods of compulsory insurance completed under the legislation of another Member State, either under a special scheme for craftsmen, or, if no such scheme exists, under a special scheme for self-employed persons or under the general scheme, shall be taken into account to justify the existence of the 18 years of compulsory contributions required for exemption from compulsory affiliation to pension insurance for self-employed craftsmen. 13.
For the grant of cash benefits pursuant to Article 47 (1) of Volume V of The German Social Insurance Code (SGB V) and Articles 200 (2) and 561 (1) of the German Law on Social Insurance (Reichsversicherungsordnung - RVO), the German institutions shall determine the net remuneration to be taken into account for the calculation of the benefits as though the insured persons resided in the Federal Republic of Germany. 15.
Article 210 (6) of Book VI of the Social Code shall only apply with regard to the periods during which compulsory contributions to the pension insurance scheme were paid in addition to contributions to the special Greek civil servant scheme and with regard to the allocation periods immediately following the periods during which these compulsory contributions were paid. 16. . . . . . . 17.
A person in receipt of a pension under German legislation and a pension under the legislation of another Member State shall be deemed, for the purposes of applying Article 27 of the Regulation, to be entitled to sickness and maternity benefits in kind if, under Article 8 (1), point 4, of Volume V of the German Social Insurance Code (SGB V), that person is exempted from compulsory sickness insurance (Krankenversicherung). 19.
Where the provisions of German pension law in force on 31 December 1991 apply, the provisions of Annex VI shall also apply in the version thereof in force on 31 December 1991.
The condition either of carrying on the activity of an employed or of a self-employed person, or the condition of having previously been compulsorily insured against the same contingency under a scheme organized for the benefit of employed or self-employed persons of the same Member State, laid down in Article 1 (a) (iv) of the Regulation, may not be relied upon against persons who, in accordance with the provisions of Royal Decree No 2805/1979 of 7 December 1979, are affiliated voluntarily to the general social security scheme in their capacity as an official or employee serving an international intergovernmental organization. 2.
The provisions of Royal Decree No 2805/1979 of 7 December 1979 apply to nationals of the Member State and to refugees and stateless persons: (a) where they are resident in Spanish territory, or (b) where they are resident in the territory of another Member State and where they have been previously, at some time, compulsorily affiliated to the Spanish social security scheme, of or (c) where they are resident in the territory of a third State and have paid contributions for at least 1800 days to the Spanish social security scheme and where they are not insured either compulsorily or voluntarily by virtue of the legislation of another Member State. 3.
Law No 65-555 of 10 July 1965 which grants to French nationals, who are pursuing, or who have pursued, a professional or trade activity abroad, the right to join the voluntary old-age insurance scheme, shall apply to nationals of other Member States under the following conditions: - the professional or trade activity giving rise to voluntary insurance under the French system should not be, or have been, pursued either on French territory or on the territory of the Member State of which the employed or self-employed person is a national, - the employed or self-employed person must produce evidence, when making his claim, either that he has resided in France for at least 10 years, consecutive or not, or that he has been continuously subject to French legislation on a compulsory or optional basis for the same length of time. 4.
Employed persons who were compulsorily affiliated until 31 December 1992 to a pension insurance scheme of a Member State other than Greece and who are subject to compulsory Greek social insurance (base statutory scheme) for the first time after 1 January 1993, shall be regarded as 'formerly insured persons` in accordance with the provisions of Law No 2084/92.
Employed or self-employed persons, unemployed persons, pension claimants and pensioners, together with members of their families, referred to in Articles 19 (1), 22 (1) and (3), 25 (1) and (3), 26 (1), 28a, 29 and 31 of the Regulation, who are residing or staying in Ireland, shall be entitled free of charge to all medical treatment provided for by Irish legislation where the cost of this treatment is payable by the institution of a Member State other than Ireland. 2.
Application of Netherlands legislation on general old-age insurance (Toepassing van de Nederlandse Algemene Ouderdomswet) (AOW) (a) The reduction referred to in Article 13 (1) of the AOW shall not be applied for calendar years or parts thereof before 1 January 1957 during which a recipient, not satisfying the conditions permitting him to have such years treated as periods of insurance, resided in the territory of the Netherlands between the ages of 15 years and 65 years, or during which, whilst residing in the territory of another Member State, he pursued an activity as an employed person in the Netherlands for an employer established in that country.
For the spouse of an employed person or of a self-employed person who was compulsorily insured immediately prior to or on 2 August 1989, the period of one year shall commence on the date of 2 August 1989.
Application of certain transitional provisions Article 45 (1) shall not apply to the assessment of entitlement to benefits under the transitional provisions of the legislations on general old-age insurance (Article 46), on general insurance for widows and orphans and on general insurance against incapacity for work.
When applying Article 18 (1) for the purpose of establishing a person's entitlement to a parental benefit period of insurance completed under the legislation of another Member State than Sweden shall be considered to be based on the same average earnings as the Swedish periods of insurance to which they are aggregated. 2.
The provisions of the Regulation on the aggregation of insurance or residence periods shall not apply to the transitional rules of the Swedish legislation on the right to a more favourable calculation of basic pensions for persons residing in Sweden for a specified period preceding the date of the claim. 3.
For the purpose of Articles 10, 27, 28, 28a, 29, 30 and 31 of the Regulation, the attendance allowance granted to an employed or self-employed person under United Kingdom legislation shall be considered as an invalidity benefit. 12.
For the purposes of Article 46 (2) (b) of the Regulation, where: (a) if in any income tax year starting on or after 6 April 1975, an employed person has completed periods of insurance, employment or residence exclusively in a Member State other than the United Kingdom, and the application of paragraph 1 (a) (i) or paragraph 1 (b) (i) results in that year being counted as a qualifying year within the meaning of United Kingdom legislation for the purposes of Article 46 (2) (a) of the Regulation, he shall be deemed to have been insured for 52 weeks in that year in that other Member State: (b) any income tax year starting on or after 6 April 1975 does not count as a qualifying year within the meaning of United Kingdom legislation for the purposes of Article 46 (2) (a) of the Regulation, any periods of insurance, employment or residence completed in that year shall be disregarded. 13.3.
In applying Article 40 (3) (a) (ii), account shall only be taken of periods during which the employed or self-employed person was incapable of work within the meaning of United Kingdom legislation. 15.1.
For the purpose of calculating, under Article 46 (2) (a) of the Regulation, the theoretical amount of that part of the pension which consists of an additional component under United Kingdom legislation: (a) the expression 'earnings, contributions or increases` in Article 47 (1) (b) of the Regulation shall be construed as meaning surpluses in earnings factors as defined in the Social Security Pensions Act 1975 or, as the case may be, the Social Security Pensions (Northern Ireland) Order 1975; (b) an average of the surpluses in earnings factor shall be calculated in accordance with Article 47 (1) (b) of the Regulation as construed in subparagraph (a) above by dividing the aggregated surpluses recorded under United Kingdom legislation by the number of income tax years within the meaning of United Kingdom legislation (including part income tax years) completed under that legislation since 6 April 1978 which occur within the relevant period of insurance. 15.2.
For the purposes of entitlement to severe disablement allowance any employed or self-employed person who is, or has been, subject to United Kingdom legislation in accordance with Title II of the Regulation, excluding Article 13 (2) (f): (a) shall, for the entire period during which he was employed or self-employed and subject to United Kingdom legislation whilst present or resident in another Member State, be treated as having been present or resident in the United Kingdom; (b) shall be entitled to have periods of insurance as an employed or self-employed person completed in the territory and under the legislation of another Member State treated as periods of presence or residence in the United Kingdom. 18.
A period of subjection to United Kingdom legislation in accordance with Article 13 (2) (f) of the Regulation may not: (i) be taken into account under that provision as a period of subjection to United Kingdom legislation for the purposes of Title III of the Regulation, nor (ii) make the United Kingdom the competent State for the provision of the benefits provided for in Article 18, 38 or 39 (1) of the Regulation. 19.
Subject to any conventions concluded with individual Member States, for the purposes of Article 13 (2) (f) of the Regulation and Article 10b of the Implementing Regulation, United Kingdom legislation shall cease to apply at the end of the day on the latest of the following three days to any person previously subject to United Kingdom legislation as an employed or self-employed person: (a) the day on which residence is transferred to the other Member State referred to in Article 13 (2) (f); (b) the day of cessation of the employment or self-employment, whether permanent or temporary, during which that person was subject to United Kingdom legislation; (c) the last day of any period of receipt of United Kingdom sickness or maternity benefit (including benefits in kind for which the United Kingdom is the competent State) or unemployment benefit which (i) began before the date of transfer of residence to another Member State or, if later, (ii) immediately followed employment or self-employment in another Member State while that person was subject to United Kingdom legislation. 20.
ANNEX VII (B) (2) (5) (6) (15) INSTANCES IN WHICH A PERSON SHALL BE SIMULTANEOUSLY SUBJECT TO THE LEGISLATION OF TWO MEMBER STATES (Article 14c (1) (b) of the Regulation) 1.
Where he is self-employed in Portugal and gainfully employed in any other Member State. 11.
PART II Council Regulation (EEC) No 574/72 of 21 March 1972 laying down the procedure for implementing Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self employed persons, to self-employed persons and to their families moving within the Community TABLE OF CONTENTS Page TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS (Articles 1 to 4) . 104 TITLE II: IMPLEMENTATION OF THE GENERAL PROVISIONS OF THE REGULATION (Articles 5 to 10a) 105 TITLE III: IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROVISIONS OF THE REGULATION FOR DETERMINING THE LEGISLATION APPLICABLE (Articles 10b to 14) . 107 TITLE IV: IMPLEMENTATION OF THE SPECIAL PROVISIONS OF THE REGULATION RELATING TO THE VARIOUS CATEGORIES OF BENEFITS Chapter 1: General rules for the aggregation of periods (Article 15) . 110 Chapter 2: Sickness and maternity (Articles 16 to 34) . 112 Chapter 3: Invalidity, old-age and death (pensions) (Articles 35 to 59) . 119 Chapter 4: Accidents at work and occupational diseases (Articles 60 to 77) . 125 Chapter 5: Death grants (Articles 78, 79) . 132 Chapter 6: Unemployment benefits (Articles 80 to 84) . 132 Chapter 7: Family benefits (Articles 85 to 88) . 134 Chapter 8: Benefits for dependent children of pensioners and for orphans (Articles 90 to 92) . 135 TITLE V: FINANCIAL PROVISOINS (Articles 93 to 107) . 136 TITLE VI: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS (Articles 108 to 117) . 140 TITLE VII: TRANSITIONAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS (Articles 118 to 122) . 142 ANNEXES Annex 1: Competent authorities . 144 Annex 2: Competent institutions . 146 Annex 3: Institutions of the place of residence and institutions of the place of stay . 168 Annex 4: Liaison bodies . 184 Annex 5: Implementing provisions of bilateral conventions which remain in force . 191 Annex 6: Procedure for the payment of benefits . 202 Annex 7: Banks . 204 Annex 8: Grant of family benefits . 205 Annex 9: Calculation of the average annual cost of benefits in kind . 207 Annex 10: Institutions and bodies designated by the competent authorities . 209 Annex 11: Schemes referred to in Articles 35 (2) of the Regulation . 225 Appendix: Article 95 . 227 THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular Articles 51 and 235 thereof, Having regard to Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the Community, and in particular Article 98 thereof, Having regard to the proposal from the Commission, Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament, Having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee, Whereas there is a need to lay down the procedure for implementing Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 adapted to the basic rules and to the experience gained in applying these texts over the years; Whereas it is necessary, in particular, to specify the competent authorities and institutions in each Member State as well as the liaison bodies entitled to exchange information directly between themselves; Whereas it is necessary to specify the documents to be furnished and to be completed by the persons concerned in order to obtain benefits; Whereas it is necessary to specify in detail the procedure for implementing the provisions of Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 concerning the determination of the legislation applicable as well as the provisions concerning the different categories of benefits; Whereas it is also necessary to specify the conditions for the refund of benefits provided by the institution of one Member State on behalf of the institution of another Member State, and the duties of the Audit Board; Whereas it is necessary to lay down the methods of application for the procedure to be followed for currency conversion within the framework of the European Monetary System; Whereas it is necessary, with a view to facilitating communication between the authorities and institutions of the Member State, to provide for the possibility of electronic data processing in connection with the application of Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71; Whereas it should be made possible for Annexes 1, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 to Regulation (EEC) No 574/72 to be amended by means of a regulation adopted by the Commission at the request of the Member State or Member States concerned or their competent authorities and after consultation of the Administrative Commission; whereas the sole aim of amending these Annexes is to incorporate into a Community instrument decisions adopted by the Member State concerned or by their competent authorities, HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: TITLE I GENERAL PROVISIONS Article 1 Definitions For the purposes of this Regulation: (a) 'Regulation` means Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71; (b) 'implementing Regulation` means this Regulation; (c) the definitions in Article 1 of this Regulation have the meaning assigned to them in the said Article.
The provisions referred to in Articles 5, 53 (3), 104, 105 (2), 116 and 121 of the implementing Regulation are listed in Annex 5. 6.
The procedure for the payment of benefits chosen by the institutions responsible for payment in each Member State, in accordance with Article 53 (1) of the implementing Regulation, is listed in Annex 6. 7.
The names and registered offices or place of business of the banks referred to in Article 55 (1) of the implementing Regulation are listed in Annex 7. 8.
The Member States to which the provisions of Article 10a (1) (d) of the implementing Regulation apply in their dealings with each other are listed in Annex 8. 9.
The schemes to be taken into consideration when calculating the average annual cost of benefits in kind, in accordance with Articles 94 (3) (a) and 95 (3) (a) of the implementing Regulation, are listed in Annex 9. 10.
Annex 11 lists the scheme or schemes referred to in Article 35 (2) of the Regulation.
If, by virtue of Articles 9 and 15 (3) of the Regulation, a person satisfies the conditions for admission to a voluntary or optional continued insurance in respect of invalidity, old age and death (pensions) in several schemes under the legislation of one Member State, and if he has not been subject to compulsory insurance under one of those schemes by virtue of his last employment or self-employment he may, under the said Articles, join the voluntary or optional continued insurance scheme specified by the legislation of that Member State or, failing that, the scheme of his choice. 2.
Article 8 (5) Rules applicable in the case of overlapping of rights to sickness or maternity benefits under the legislation of several Member States 1.
Article 9a Rules applicable in the case of overlapping of rights to unemployment benefits If an employed or self-employed person, entitled to unemployment benefits under the legislation of a Member State to which he was subject during his last employment or self-employment pursuant to Article 69 of the Regulation, goes to Greece where he is also entitled to unemployment benefits by virtue of a period of insurance, employment or self-employment previously completed under Greek legislation, the right to benefits under Greek legislation shall be suspended for the period laid down in Article 69 (1) (c) of the Regulation.
TITLE III IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROVISIONS OF THE REGULATIONS FOR DETERMINING THE LEGISLATION APPLICABLE Implementation of Articles 13 to 17 of the Regulation Article 10b (9) Formalities pursuant to Article 13 (2) (f) of the Regulation The date and conditions on which the legislation of a Member State ceases to be applicable to a person referred to in Article 13 (2) (f) of the Regulation shall be determined in accordance with that legislation.
The right of option provided for in Article 16 (2) of the Regulation must be exercised in the first instance within the three months following the date on which the employed person was engaged by the diplomatic mission or consular post concerned, or on which he entered into the personal service of agents of such mission or post.
The institution designated by the competent authority of the Member State for whose legislation the person concerned has opted shall issue to him a certificate testifying that he is subject to the legislation of that Member State while he is employed by the diplomatic mission or consular post in question or in the personal service of agents of such mission or post. 4.
The competent authorities of the Member States shall, where necessary, designate the competent institutions in respect of members of the auxiliary staff of the European Communities. 4.
The competent authority shall designate the competent sickness insurance institution.
TITLE IV IMPLEMENTATION OF THE SPECIAL PROVISIONS OF THE REGULATION RELATING TO THE VARIOUS CATEGORIES OF BENEFITS CHAPTER 1 GENERAL RULES FOR THE AGGREGATION OF PERIODS Article 15 (A) (5) (11) 1.
Nevertheless, in the cases referred to in Article 14c (b) of the Regulation, the above mentioned institutions shall likewise take account, for the award of benefits, of the periods of insurance or of residence completed under an obligatory insurance scheme under the legislation of the two Member States in question which overlap each other. (b) When a period of insurance or residence completed under compulsory insurance under the legislation of one Member State coincides with a period of insurance completed under voluntary or optional continued insurance under the legislation of another Member State, only the period completed under compulsory insurance shall be taken into account. (c) When a period of insurance or residence, other than a period treated as such, completed under the legislation of one Member State coincides with a period treated as such under the legislation of another Member State, only the period other than a period treated as such shall be taken into account. (d) Any period treated as such under the legislations of two or more Member States shall be taken into account only by the institution of the Member State under whose legislation the insured person was last compulsorily insured prior to the said period; where the insured person has not been compulsorily insured under the legislation of a Member State before the said period, the latter shall be taken into account by the institution of the Member State under whose legislation he was compulsorily insured for the first time after the said period. (e) Where it is not possible to determine accurately the period of time in which certain periods of insurance or residence were completed under the legislation of one Member State, such periods shall be presumed not to overlap with periods of insurance or residence completed under the legislation of another Member State and shall, where advantageous, be taken into account. (f) Where under the legislation of one Member State certain periods of insurance or residence are taken into account only if they have been completed within a specified time limit, the institution which administers such legislation shall: (i) only take into account periods of insurance or residence completed under the legislation of another Member State if they were completed within the said time limit, (ii) extend such a time limit for the duration of periods of insurance or residence completed wholly or partly within the said time limit under the legislation of another Member State, where the periods of insurance or residence involved under the legislation of the second Member State give rise only to the suspension of the time limit within which the periods of insurance or residence must be completed. 2.
In order to invoke the provisions of Article 18 of the Regulation, an employed or self-employed person shall submit to the competent institution a certified statement specifying the periods of insurance completed under the legislation to which he was last subject. 2.
If he does not submit the said certified statement, the competent institution shall obtain it from the institution or institutions concerned. 3.
Implementation of Article 19 of the Regulation Article 17 (14) Benefits in kind in the case of residence in a Member State other than the competent State 1.
In order to receive benefits in kind under Article 19 of the Regulation, an employed or self-employed person must register himself and the members of his family with the institution of his place or residence by submitting a certified statement testifying that he and the members of his family are entitled to the said benefits.
However, where the said certified statement has been issued by a German, French, Italian or Portuguese institution, it shall be valid only for a period of one year following the date on which it was issued and must be renewed every year. 3.
Notification shall be unnecessary, however, when the costs of the benefits in kind are repaid in a lump sum to the institution of the place of residence. 7.
The employed or self-employed person or the members of his family shall inform the institution of the place of residence of any change in their situation which is likely to alter their entitlement to benefits in kind, in particular any cessation or change of the employment or self-employment of the person concerned or any transfer of residence or stay of the employed or self-employed person or of a member of his family.
Two or more Member States or the competent authorities of those Member States may, having received the opinion of the Administrative Commission, agree on other implementing provisions..
Article 18 Cash benefits in the case of residence in a Member State other than the competent State 1.
That institution shall immediately have the incapacity for work medically confirmed and the certificate referred to in paragraph 1 drawn up.
Such certificate shall state the probable duration of the incapacity and shall be forwarded to the competent institution forthwith. 3.
Two or more Member States, or the competent authorities of those Member States may, having received the opinion of the Administrative Commission, agree on other implementing provisions.
In order to receive benefits in kind under the terms of Article 21 of the Regulation, members of the family shall present to the institution at the place of stay a certificate stating that they are entitled to the said benefits.
The provisions of Article 17 (6), (7) and (9) of the implementing Regulation shall apply by analogy.
Implementation of Article 22 of the Regulation Article 20 Benefits in kind in the case of a stay in a Member State other than the competent State - Special case of persons employed in international transport and members of their families 1.
A person who has submitted such certified statement shall be presumed to have satisfied the conditions for acquisition of the right to benefits in kind.
In place of the certified statement provided for in paragraph 1, the employed person covered by that paragraph may submit to the institution of the place of stay a certified statement stating that the conditions for acquisition of the right to benefits in kind have been satisfied.
This certified statement, which shall be issued by the competent institution, shall specify in particular, where necessary, the maximum period during which benefits in kind may be granted in accordance with the legislation of the competent State.
The provisions of Article 17 (6), (7) and (9) of the implementing Regulation shall apply by analogy. 6.
Benefits in kind provided by virtue of the presumption made in paragraph 1 shall be reimbursed as provided for in Article 36 (1) of the Regulation.
In order to receive benefits in kind under Article 22 (1) (a) (i) of the Regulation, save in the case referred to in Article 20 of the implementing Regulation, an employed or self-employed person shall submit to the institution of the place of stay a certified statement stating that he is entitled to benefits in kind.
The provisions of Article 17 (6), (7) and (9) of the implementing Regulation shall apply by analogy.
Article 22 Benefits in kind for employed or self-employed persons who transfer their residence or return to their country of residence, and for employed or self-employed persons authorized to go to another Member State for medical treatment 1.
In order to receive benefits in kind under Article 22 (1) (b) (i) of the Regulation, an employed or self-employed person shall submit to the institution of the place of residence a certified statement testifying that he is entitled to continue receiving the said benefits.
The provisions of Article 17 (6), (7) and (9) of the implementing Regulation shall apply by analogy. 3.
Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall apply by analogy in respect of the provisions of benefits in kind in the case referred to in Article 22 (1) (c) (i) of the Regulation.
Article 23 Benefits in kind for members of the family The provisions of Article 21 or 22 of the implementing Regulation, as appropriate, shall apply by analogy in respect of the granting of benefits in kind to members of the family as provided for in Article 22 (3) of the Regulation.
However, in the cases referred to in the second subparagraph of Article 22 (3) of the Regulation, the institution of the place of residence and the legislation of the country of residence of the members of the family shall be considered, respectively, as the competent institution and as the legislation of the competent State for the purposes of Articles 17 (6), (7) and (9), 21 and 22 of the implementing Regulation.
Article 24 Cash benefits for employed or self-employed persons in the case of a stay in a Member State other than the competent State The provisions of Article 18 of the implementing Regulation shall apply by analogy in respect of the receipt of cash benefits under Article 22 (1) (a) (ii) of the Regulation.
However, without prejudice to the obligation to submit a certificate of incapacity for work, an employed or self-employed person who is staying in the territory of a Member State without pursing any employment or self-employment there, shall not be required to submit the notification of having ceased work referred to in Article 18 (1) of the implementing Regulation.
Implementation of Article 23 (3) of the Regulation Article 25 Certified statement relating to the members of the family to be taken into account in the calculation of cash benefits 1.
In order to receive benefits under the provisions of Article 23 (3) of the Regulation, an employed or self-employed person shall submit to the competent institution a certified statement relating to the members of his family who are resident in the territory of a Member State other than that wherein the said institution is situated. 2.
Implementation of Article 25 (1) of the Regulation Article 26 Benefits for unemployed persons who go to a Member State other than the competent State in order to seek employment there 1.
In order to receive benefits in cash and in kind under Article 25 (1) of the Regulation for himself and for the members of his family, an unemployed person shall submit to the sickness insurance institution of the place where he has gone a certified statement for which, prior to his departure, he should have applied to the competent sickness insurance institution.
The provisions of Article 17 (6), (7) and (9) of the implementing Regulation shall apply by analogy. 4.
This certified statement shall be valid for the period of time during which the benefits may be granted under Article 69 (1) of the Regulation.
In order to receive benefits in kind in the territory of the Member State in which he resides, under Article 26 (1) of the Regulation, a claimant and the members of his family shall register with the institution of the place of residence by submitting a certified statement testifying that he is entitled under the legislation of another Member State to the said benefits for himself and for the members of his family.
Implementation of Articles 28 and 28a of the Regulation Article 29 Benefits in kind for pensioners and members of their families who are not resident in a Member State under whose legislation they receive a pension and are entitled to benefits 1.
In order to receive benefits in kind in the territory of the Member State in which he resides, under Articles 28 (1) and 28a of the Regulation, a pensioner and the members of his family shall register with the institution of the place of residence by submitting a certified statement testifying that he is entitled to the said benefits for himself and for the members of his family, under the legislation or one of the legislations under which a pension is payable. 2.
The institution of the place of residence shall inform the institution which has issued the certified statement provided for in paragraph 2 of every registration effected in accordance with the provisions of the said paragraph. 4.
Implemention of Article 29 of the Regulation Article 30 (14) Benefits in kind for members of the family who are resident in a Member State other than the State in which the pensioner is resident 1.
However, where the said certified statement has been issued by a German, French, Italian or Portuguese institution, it shall be valid only for a period of one year following the date on which it was issued and must be renewed every year. 2.
When making an application for benefits in kind the members of the family shall submit to the institution of their place of residence the certified statement referred to in paragraph 1, if the legislation which that institution administers provides that such an application must be accompanied by evidence of entitlement to a pension. 3.
Implementation of Article 31 of the Regulation Article 31 Benefits in kind for pensioners and members of their families staying in a Member State other than the one in which they are resident 1.
In order to receive benefits in kind under Article 31 of the Regulation, a pensioner shall submit to the institution of the place of stay a certified statement testifying that he is entitled to the said benefits.
The provisions of Article 17 (6), (7) and (9) of the implementing Regulation shall apply by analogy.
Implementation of Article 35 (1) of the Regulation Article 32 Institution to which workers in mines and similar undertakings and members of their families may apply when staying or residing in a Member State other than the competent State 1.
In the cases referred to in Article 35 (1) of the Regulation and where, in the country of stay or residence, the benefits provided under the insurance scheme for sickness or maternity covering manual workers in the steel industry are equivalent to those provided under the special scheme for workers in mines and similar undertakings, workers belonging to the latter category and members of their families may apply to the nearest institution in the territory of the Member State in which they are staying or residing, specified in Annex 3 to the implementing Regulation, even if the latter is an institution of the scheme applicable to manual workers in the steel industry, which institution shall then provide such benefits. 2.
Where the benefits provided under the special scheme for workers in mines and similar undertakings are more advantageous, such workers or the members of their families shall have the option of applying either to the institution responsible for the administration of that scheme, or to the nearest institution in the territory of the Member State in which they are staying or residing which administers the scheme for manual workers in the steel industry.
Implementation of Article 35 (2) of the Regulation Article 32a Special schemes applying to certain self-employed persons Annex 11 lists the scheme or schemes referred to in Article 35 (2) of the Regulation.
If it is not possible during an employed or self-employed person's stay in a Member State other than the competent State to complete the formalities provided for in Articles 20 (1) and (4) and 21, 23 and 31 of the implementing Regulation, his expenses shall, upon his application, be refunded by the competent institution in accordance with the refund rates administered by the institution of the place of stay. 2.
CHAPTER 3 INVALIDITY, OLD-AGE AND DEATH (PENSIONS) Submission and investigation of claims for benefits Article 35 (11) Applications for invalidity benefits where an employed person or a self-employed person has been subject only to the legislations mentioned in part A of Annex IV to the Regulation and also in the case referred to in Article 40 (2) of the Regulation 1.
In order to receive benefits under Articles 37, 38 and 39 of the Regulation, including the cases referred to in Articles 40 (2), 41 (1) and 42 (2) of the Regulation, an employed or self-employed person shall submit a claim either to the institution of the Member State to whose legislation he was subject at the time of occurrence of the incapacity for work followed by invalidity or the aggravation of such invalidity, or to the institution of the place of residence, which shall then forward the claim to the first institution, indicating the date on which it was submitted; this date shall be regarded as the date of the submission of the claim to the first institution.
The provisions of paragraph 2 shall not apply in the case referred to in Article 41 (1) (d) of the Regulation.
Article 36 Claims for old-age and survivors' benefits (excluding orphans' benefits) and invalidity benefits in cases not referred to in Article 35 of the implementing Regulation 1.
In order to receive benefits under Articles 40 to 51 of the Regulation, except in the cases referred to in Article 35 of the implementing Regulation, the person concerned shall submit a claim to the institution of the place of residence in accordance with the procedure provided for by the legislation administered by that institution.
That date shall be regarded as the date on which the claim was submitted to the latter institution. 2.
Where a claimant resides in the territory of a Member State to whose legislation the employed or self-employed person has not been subject, he may submit his claim to the institution of the Member State to whose legislation the employed or self-employed person was last subject. 3.
Where a claimant resides in the territory of a State which is not a Member State, he shall submit his claim to the competent institution of that Member State to whose legislation the employed or self-employed person was last subject.
Article 37 Documents and information which should accompany claims to the benefits referred to in article 36 of the implementing Regulation The submission of the claims referred to in Article 36 of the implementing Regulation shall be subject to the following rules: (a) the claim must be accompanied by the required supporting documents and must be made on the form provided for by the legislation: (i) of the Member State on whose territory the claimant resides, in the case referred to in Article 36 (1); (ii) of the Member State to which the employed or self-employed person was last subject, in the cases referred to in Article 36 (2) and (3); (b) the accuracy of the information supplied by the claimant must be established by official documents attached to the claim form, or confirmed by the competent bodies of the Member State in whose territory the claimant resides; (c) the claimant must indicate, in so far as is possible, either the institution or institutions administering insurance in respect of invalidity, old-age or death (pensions) of any Member State with which the employed or self-employed person has been insured, or in the case of an employed person the employer or employers for whom he has worked in the territory of any Member State, by producing any employment certificates which he may have in his possession; (d) if, under Article 44 (2) of the Regulation, the claimant asks for the postponement of the award of any old-age benefits to which he would be entitled under the legislation of one or more member States he must specify the legislation under which he is claiming benefits.
In order to receive benefits under the provisions of Article 39 (4) or 47 (3) of the Regulation, the claimant shall submit a certified statement relating to the members of his family, his children excepted, who are residing in the territory of a Member State other than in which the institution responsible for the award of benefits is situated.
The provisions of the second and third subparagraphs of Article 25 (2) of the implementing Regulation shall apply by analogy.
In place of the certified statement provided for in the first subparagraph, the institution responsible for the award of benefits may require the claimant to supply recent civil status documents relating to the members of his family, his children excepted, who are residing in the territory of a Member State other than the State in which the said institution is situated. 2.
Article 39 (11) Investigation of applications for invalidity benefits where an employed person or a self-employed person has been subject only to the legislations mentioned in part A of Annex IV to the Regulation 1.
If an employed or self-employed person has submitted a claim for invalidity benefits, and the institution establishes that the provisions of Article 37 (1) of the Regulation apply, that institution shall, where necessary, obtain from the institution with which the person concerned was last insured a certified statement of the periods of insurance completed by him under the legislation administered by the last institution. 2.
In the case referred to in Article 39 (3) of the Regulation, the institution which has investigated the claimant's case shall forward his file to the institution with which the person concerned was last insured. 4.
Articles 41 to 50 of the implementing Regulation shall not apply to the investigation of claims referred to in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3.
Article 40 Determination of the degree of invalidity In order to determine the degree of invalidity, the institution of the Member State shall take into consideration the documents and medical reports and the information of an administrative nature obtained by the institution of any other Member State.
Investigation of claims for benefits in respect of invalidity, old age and survivors in the cases referred to in Article 36 of the implementing Regulation Article 41 Determination of the investigating institutions 1.
The investigating institution shall enter on the form provided for in Article 42 (1) of the implementing Regulation the periods of insurance or residence completed under the legislation which it administers and it shall forward a copy of that form to the institution administering insurance in respect of invalidity, old-age or death (pensions) of any Member State with which the employed or self-employed person has been insured enclosing, where appropriate, any employment certificates produced by the claimant. 2.
In the case provided for in Article 37 (d) of the implementing Regulation, the institutions of the Member States to whose legislation the claimant has been subject but to which he has applied for postponement of the award of the benefits shall enter on the form provided for in Article 42 (1) of the implementing Regulation only the periods of insurance or residence completed by the claimant under the legislation which they administer.
If, taking account of the provisions of Article 45 of the Regulation, the conditions for entitlement, other than those relating to the degree of invalidity, laid down by the legislation administered by the investigating institution are not fulfilled, that institution shall immediately notify the competent institution in respect of invalidity of the other Member State to whose legislation the employed or self-employed person was last subject.
Two Member States or the competent authorities or those member States may agree to apply other methods of payment of benefits on a provisional basis in cases where only the institutions of those States are concerned.
The comparison referred to in Article 46 (3) of the Regulation must be made bearing the aforesaid increase in mind.
Article 49 (11) Recalculation of benefits 1.
The decision must specify the grounds and time-limits for appeal provided for by the legislation in question.
When a person in receipt of benefits, in particular: (a) invalidity benefits; (b) old-age benefits awarded in the event of unfitness for work; (c) old-age benefits awarded to elderly unemployed persons; (d) old-age benefits awarded in the event of cessation of a professional or trade activity; (e) survivors' benefits awarded in the event of invalidity or unfitness for work; f) benefits awarded on condition that the means of the recipient do not exceed a prescribed limit, is staying or residing in the territory of a Member State other than the State in which the institution responsible for payment is situated, administrative checks and medical examinations shall be carried out, at the request of that institution, by the institution of the place of stay or residence of the recipient in accordance with the procedures laid down by the legislation administered by the latter institution.
Two or more Member States or the competent authorities of those States may agree on other procedures for the payment of benefits in cases where the competent institutions of those Member States are the only ones concerned.
Any agreements concluded on this subject shall be notified to the Administrative Commission. 3.
Article 54 Notification to the paying body of the detailed schedule of payments to be made The institution responsible for payment of benefits shall send to the liaison body of the Member State in whose territory the person entitled to benefits is residing, or to the institution of the place of residence (both hereinafter called 'the paying body`), in duplicate, a detailed schedule of payments to be made which should reach the paying body not later than 20 days before the date on which those benefits become due.
Article 55 Payment of amounts due into the account of the paying body 1.
Article 56 Payment of amounts due by the paying body to persons entitled to benefits 1.
The payments specified in the schedule provided for in Article 54 of the implementing Regulation shall be paid to the person entitled to benefits by the paying body on behalf of the institution responsible for payment.
Article 57 Settlement of accounts in respect of the payment referred to in Article 56 of the implementing Regulation 1.
Article 58 Recovery of expenses incurred in the payment of benefits The expenses incurred in the payment of benefits, particularly postal and bank charges, may be recovered from the recipients by the paying body under the conditions provided for by the legislation administered by that body.
Article 59 Notification of transfer of residence of the person entitled to benefits When a person entitled to benefits due under the legislation of one or more Member States transfers his residence from the territory of one State to that of another State, he shall notify this fact to the institution or institutions responsible for the payment of such benefits and to the paying body.
CHAPTER 4 ACCIDENTS AT WORK AND OCCUPATIONAL DISEASES Implementation of Articles 52 and 53 of the Regulation Article 60 Benefits in kind in the case of residence in a Member State other than the competent State 1.
If the person concerned is a seasonal worker, the certified statement referred to in paragraph 1 shall be valid for the whole of the expected duration of the seasonal work unless, in the meanwhile, the competent institution notifies the institution of the place of residence of its cancellation. 4.
Where such benefits in kind have to be granted in a case of extreme urgency, the institution of the place of residence shall forthwith inform the competent institution thereof. 7.
The person concerned shall inform the institution of the place of residence of any change in his situation which is likely to alter his entitlement to benefits in kind, in particular any cessation or change of employment or self-employment or any transfer of residence or stay.
Two or more Member State or the competent authorities of these Member States may, having received the opinion of the Administrative Commission, agree on other implementing provisions.
The institution shall immediately have the incapacity for work medically confirmed and the certificate referred to in paragraph 1 drawn up.
Such certificate shall state the probable duration of the incapacity and shall be forwarded to the competent institution forthwith. 3.
Two or more Member States or the competent authorities of those Member States may, having received the opinion of the Administrative Commission, agree on other implementing provisions.
Implementation of Article 55 of the Regulation Article 62 Benefits in kind in the case of a stay in a Member State other than the competent State 1.
If the person concerned has submitted such certified statement, he shall be presumed to have satisfied the conditions for acquisition of the right to benefits in kind.
Benefits in kind provided by virtue of the presumption made in paragraph 1 shall be reimbursed as provided for in Article 36 (1) of the Regulation. 5.
In place of the certified statement provided for in paragraph 1 the employed person referred to in that paragraph may submit to the institution of the place of stay a certified statement as provided for in paragraph 6. 6.
In order to receive benefits in kind under Article 55 (1) (a) (i) of the Regulation, except in cases where a presumption is made under paragraph 1, the employed or self-employed person shall submit to the institution of the place of stay a certified statement stating that he is entitled to benefits in kind.
Such certified statement, which shall be issued by the competent institution, if possible before the person concerned leaves the territory of the Member State in which he resides, shall specify in particular, where necessary, the maximum period during which benefits in kind may be granted, in accordance with the legislation of the competent State.
If the person concerned does not submit the said certified statement, the institution of the place of stay shall obtain it from the competent institution. 7.
Article 63 Benefits in kind for employed or self-employed persons who transfer their residence or return to their country of residence, and for employed or self-employed persons authorized to go to another Member State for medical treatment 1.
In order to receive benefits in kind under Article 55 (1) (b) (i) of the Regulation, an employed or self-employed person shall submit to the institution of the place of residence a certified statement testifying that he is entitled to continue receiving the said benefits.
Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall apply by analogy in respect of the provision of benefits in kind in the case referred to in Article 55 (1) (c) (i) of the Regulation.
Article 64 Cash benefits other than pensions in the case of a stay in a Member State other than the competent State The provisions of Article 61 of the implementing Regulation shall apply by analogy in respect of the receipt of cash benefits, other than pensions, under Article 55 (1) (a) (ii) of the Regulation.
However, without prejudice to the obligation to submit a certificate of incapacity for work, an employed or self-employed person who is staying in the territory of a Member State without pursuing any professional or trade activity there shall not be required to submit the notification of having ceased work referred to in Article 61 (1) of the implementing Regulation.
Implementation of Articles 52 to 56 of the Regulation Article 65 Declarations, investigations and exchange of information between institutions to an accident at work sustained in, or an occupational disease contracted in, a Member State other than the competent State 1.
When an accident at work is sustained in, or an occupational disease is diagnosed for the first time in, the territory of a Member State other than the competent State, a declaration of the accident at work or occupational disease must be made in accordance with the provisions of the legislation of the competent State without prejudice to any legal provisions in force in the territory of the Member State in which the accident at work was sustained or in which the occupational disease was first diagnosed, and which shall in such a case remain applicable.
The institution of the Member State in whose territory the accident at work was sustained or in which the occupational disease was first diagnosed, shall forward to the competent institution, in duplicate, the medical certificate drawn up in that territory and any relevant information which the latter institution may request. 3.
If, in the case of an accident sustained while travelling in the territory of a Member State other than the competent State, there are grounds for holding an enquiry in the territory of the first Member State, an investigator may be appointed for that purpose by the competent institution, which shall so inform the authorities of that Member State.
Implementation of Article 57 of the Regulation Article 67 (7) Procedure in the case of exposure to the risk of an occupational disease in several Member States 1.
Article 68 (7) Exchange of information between institutions in the event of an appeal against a decision to reject a claim - Payment of advances in the event of such an appeal 1.
Implementation of Article 58 (3) of the Regulation Article 70 Certified statement relating to the members of the family to be taken into consideration when calculating cash benefits including pensions 1.
In order to receive benefits under the provisions of Article 58 (3) of the Regulation the claimant shall submit a certified statement relating to the members of his family who are residing in the territory of a Member State other than that in which the institution responsible for the award of cash benefits is situated.
In place of the certified statement provided for in the first subparagraph, the institution responsible for the award of cash benefits may require the claimant to produce recent civil status documents relating to member of his family who are residing in the territory of a Member State other than that in which the said institution is situated. 2.
Implementation of Article 60 of the Regulation Article 71 Aggravation of an occupational disease 1.
Implementation of Article 61 (5) and (6) of the Regulation Article 72 Assessment of the degree of incapacity in the case of an accident at work sustained previously or subsequently or an occupational disease diagnosed previously or subsequently 1.
Implementation of Article 61 (1) of the Regulation Article 73 Institutions to which workers in mines and similar undertakings may apply when staying or residing in a Member State other than the competent State 1.
In the cases referred to in Article 62 (1) of the Regulation and where, in the country of stay or residence, the benefits provided under the insurance scheme for accidents at work and occupational disease covering manual workers in the steel industry are equivalent to those provided under the special scheme for workers in mines and similar undertakings, workers belonging to the latter category may apply to the nearest institution in the territory of the Member State in which they are staying or residing specified in Annex 3 of the implementing Regulation, even if the latter is an institution of the scheme applicable to manual workers in the steel industry, which institution shall then provide such benefits. 2.
Where the benefits provided under the special scheme for workers in mines and similar undertakings are more advantageous, such workers shall have the option of applying either to the institution responsible for the administration of that scheme, or to the nearest institution in the territory of the Member State in which they are staying or residing, which administers the scheme for manual workers in the steel industry.
The competent institution shall notify the claimant of its decisions directly or through the liaison body of the competent State; it shall send a copy of that decision to the liaison body of the Member State in whose territory the claimant resides.
Any person drawing a pension for himself or for an orphan shall inform the institution responsible for payment of any change in his situation or in that of the orphan which is likely to modify the pension rights.
Payment of pensions Article 77 Payment of pensions due from the institution of one Member State to pensioners resident in the territory of another Member State shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Articles 53 to 58 of the implementing Regulation.
CHAPTER 5 DEATH GRANTS Implementation of Articles 64, 65 and 66 of the Regulation Article 78 Submission of a claim for a grant In order to receive a death grant under the legislation of a Member State other than the State in whose territory he resides, the claimant shall submit his claim either to the competent institution or to the institution of the place of residence.
The accuracy of the information supplied by the claimant must be established by official documents attached to the claim or confirmed by the competent bodies of the Member State in whose territory the claimant resides.
In order to invoke the provisions of Article 64 of the Regulation, a claimant shall submit to the competent institution a certified statement specifying the periods of insurance or residence completed by the employed or self-employed person under the legislation to which he was last subject. 2.
CHAPTER 6 UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS Implementation of Article 67 of the Regulation Article 80 Certified statement of periods of insurance or employment 1.
This certified statement shall be issued, at the request of the person concerned, either by the competent institution in respect of unemployment of the Member State to whose legislation he was last subject, or by another institution designated by the competent authority of the said Member State.
Implementation of Article 68 of the Regulation Article 81 Certified statement for the calculation of benefits Where the responsibility for the calculation of benefits rests upon an institution covered by Article 68 (1) of the Regulation, and where a person has not pursued his last employment for at least four weeks in the territory of the Member State in which that institution is situated, he shall submit to the said institution a certified statement indicating the nature of the last employment pursued for at least four weeks in the territory of another Member State, and the branch of the economy in which that employment was pursued.
In order to invoke the provisions of Article 68 (2) of the Regulation, the person concerned shall submit to the competent institution a certified statement relating to the members of his family who are resident in the territory of a Member State other than the one in which the said institution is situated. 2.
It shall inform the competent institution of any occurrence coming within paragraph 1 (e) above as soon as the same comes to its knowledge and, in cases where the benefit has to be suspended or withdrawn, it shall immediately discontinue payment of the benefit.
Two or more Member States or the competent authorities of those Member States may, having received the opinion of the Administrative Commission, agree on other implementing provisions.
Implementation of Article 71 of the Regulation Article 84 Unemployed persons who were formerly employed and who, during their last employment, were residing in a Member State other than the competent State 1.
In order to claim benefits under the provisions of Article 71 (1) (b) (ii) of the Regulation, an unemployed person who was formerly employed shall submit to the institution of his place of residence, in addition to the certified statement provided for in Article 80 of the implementing Regulation, a certified statement from the institution of the Member State to whose legislation he was last subject, indicating that he has no right to benefits under Article 69 of the Regulation. 3.
For the purposes of implementing the provisions of Article 71 (2) of the Regulation, the institution of the place of residence shall ask the competent institution for any information relating to the entitlements, from the latter institution, of the unemployed person who was formerly an employed person.
CHAPTER 7 (8) FAMILY BENEFITS Implementation of Article 72 of the Regulation Article 85 (A) Certified statement of periods of employment or self-employment 1.
In order to invoke the provisions of Article 72 of the Regulation, a person shall submit to the competent institution a certified statement specifying the period of insurance, employment or self-employment completed under the legislation to which he was last subject. 2.
If he does not submit the said certified statement, the competent institution shall obtain it from one or other of the abovementioned institution unless the sickness insurance institution is able to forward him a copy of the certified statement provided for in Article 16 (1) of the implementing Regulation. 3.
Implementation of Articles 73 and 75 (1) and (2) of the Regulation (8) Article 86 (8) 1.
In order to receive family benefits under Article 73 of the Regulation, an employed person shall submit a claim to the competent institution, where necessary through his employer. 2.
Such certificate shall be issued, either by the authorities competent in civil status matters in the country of residence of those members of the family, or by the competent institution in respect of sickness insurance in the place of residence of those members of the family, or by another institution designated by the competent authority of the Member State in whose territory those members of the family reside.
The competent authorities of two or more Member States may agree on special procedures for the payment of family benefits, in particular with a view to facilitating the implementation of Article 75 (1) and (2) of the Regulation.
Such agreements shall be communicated to the Administrative Commission. 5.
Implementation of Article 74 of the Regulation Article 88 (8) The provisions of Article 86 of the implementing Regulation shall apply by analogy to unemployed persons who where formerly employed or self-employed and who are covered by Article 74 of the Regulation.
CHAPTER 8 BENEFITS FOR DEPENDENT CHILDREN OF PENSIONERS AND FOR ORPHANS Implementation of Articles 77, 78 and 79 of the Regulation Article 90 1.
In order to receive benefits under Article 77 or 78 of the Regulation, a claimant shall submit a claim to the institution of his place of residence, in accordance with the procedures laid down by the legislation administered by that institution. 2.
Payment of benefits due under Article 77 or 78 of the Regulation shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Articles 53 to 58 of the implementing Regulation. 2.
The competent authorities of the Member States shall, where necessary, designate the competent institution for paying benefits due under Article 77 or 78 of the Regulation.
Article 92 Any person to whom benefits are paid under Article 77 or 78 of the Regulation for a pensioner's children or for orphans, shall inform the institution responsible for the payment of such benefits: - of any change in the situation of the children or orphans that is likely to alter the entitlement to benefits, - of any modification in the number of children or orphans in respect of whom benefits are due, - of any transfer of residence of the children or orphans, - of any pursuit of a professional or trade activity giving entitlement to family benefits or family allowances for such children or orphans.
TITLE V FINANCIAL PROVISIONS Article 93 Refund of sickness and maternity insurance benefits other than those provided for in Articles 94 and 95 of the implementing Regulation 1.
The actual amount of benefits in kind provided under Article 19 (1) and (2) of the Regulation to employed and self-employed persons and to members of their families residing in the territory of the same Member State, and benefits in kind provided under Article 21 (2), 22, 25 (1), (3) and (4), 26, 29 (1) or 31 of the Regulation, shall be refunded by the competent institution to the institution which provided the said benefits as shown in the accounts of that institution. 2.
Two or more Member States or the competent authorities of those Member States may, having received the opinion of the Administrative Commission, agree to other methods of assessing the amounts to be refunded, in particular on the basis of lump sums.
The amount of benefits in kind provided under Article 19 (2) of the Regulation to the members of the family of an employed or self-employed person who are not residing in the territory of the same Member State as the person concerned shall be refunded by the competent institutions to the institutions which provided the said benefits on the basis of a lump sum in respect of each calendar year which is as close as possible to the actual expenditure incurred. 2.
The factors necessary for the calculation of the said lump sum shall be determined as follows: (a) the average annual cost per family shall be obtained, for each Member State, by dividing the annual expenditure on all the benefits in kind provided by the institutions of that Member State to all the members of the families of employed or self-employed persons who are subject to the legislation of the said Member State, under the social security schemes to be taken into consideration, by the average annual number of such employed or self-employed persons with members of the family; the social security schemes to be taken into consideration for that purpose are specified in Annex 9 to the implementing Regulation; (b) in dealings between the institutions of two Member States, the average annual number of families to be taken into account shall be equal to the average annual number of employed or self-employed persons who are subject to the legislation of one of those Member States and the members of whose families are entitled to benefits in kind to be provided by an institution of the other Member States. 4.
The number of families to be taken into account in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3 (b) shall be determined by means of a list kept for that purpose by the institution of the place of residence, based upon documentary evidence by the competent institution of the rights of the persons concerned.
In the event of any dispute, the observations of the institutions involved shall be submitted to the Audit Board provided for in Article 101 (3) of the implementing Regulation. 5.
The Administrative Commission shall lay down the methods and procedures for determining the calculation factors referred to in paragraphs 3 and 4. 6.
Two or more Member States or the competent authorities of those Member States may, having received the opinion of the Administrative Commission, agree on other methods of assessing the amounts to be refunded.
Article 95 (3) Refund on benefits in kind provided under sickness and maternity insurance to pensioners and to members of their families who do not reside in a Member State under whose legislation they receive a pension and are entitled to benefits 1.
The factors necessary for the calculation of the said lump sum shall be determined according to the following rules: (a) the average annual cost per pensioner shall be obtained, for each Member State, by dividing the annual expenditure on all the benefits in kind provided by the institutions of that Member State to all pensioners whose pensions are payable under the legislation of that Member State, under the social security schemes to be taken into consideration, and to members of their families, by the average annual number of pensioners; the social security schemes to be taken into consideration for that purpose are specified in Annex 9; (b) in dealings between the institutions of two Member States, the average annual number of pensioners to be taken into account shall be equal to the average annual number of pensioners referred to in Article 28 (2) of the Regulation who, whilst residing in the territory of one of the Member States, are entitled to benefits in kind chargeable to the institution of the other Member State. 4.
In the event of any dispute, the observations of the institutions involved shall be submitted to the Audit Board provided for in Article 101 (3) of the implementing Regulation. 5.
The Administrative Commission shall lay down the methods and procedures for determining the calculation factors referred to in paragraphs 3 and 4. 6.
Two or more Member States or the competent authorities of those Member States may, having received the opinion of the Administrative Commission, agree on other methods of assessing the amounts to be refunded.
Implementation of Article 63 (2) of the Regulation Article 96 Refund of benefits in kind provided under insurance schemes for accidents at work and occupational diseases by the institution of one Member State on behalf of the institution of another Member State For the purposes of implementing the provisions of Article 63 (2) of the Regulation, the provisions of Article 93 of the implementing Regulation shall apply by analogy.
Implementation of Article 70 (2) of the Regulation Article 97 Refund of unemployment benefits paid to unemployed persons going to another State to seek employment there 1.
The amount of benefits paid under Article 69 of the Regulation shall be refunded by the competent institution to the institution which has paid the said benefits, as shown in the accounts of the latter institution. 2.
Two or more Member States or the competent authorities of those States may: - having received the opinion of the Administrative Commission, agree on other methods of determining the amounts to be refunded, in particular lump sums, or other methods of payment, or - waive all refunds between institutions.
Common provisions on refunds Article 99 Administration costs Two or more Member States or the competent authorities of those Member States may, in accordance with the provisions of the third sentence of Article 84 (2) of the Regulation, agree to increase the amount of the benefits referred to in Articles 93 to 98 of the implementing Regulation by a specific percentage in order to take into account administration costs.
Article 101 (8) Statement of claims 1.
Pursuant to Articles 36, 63 and 70 of the Regulation, the Administrative Commission shall draw up a statement of claims in respect of each calendar year. 2.
The Audit Board shall: (a) collect the necessary data and arrange for the calculations required for the implementation of the present Title; (b) give the Administrative Commission periodic accounts of the results of the implementation of the Regulations, in particular as regards the financial aspect; (c) make any useful suggestions it may have to the Administrative Commission in connection with the provisions of subparagraphs (a) and (b); (d) submit to the Administrative Commission proposals on the observations forwarded to it in accordance with Articles 94 (4) and 95 (4) of the implementing Regulation; (e) lay before the Administrative Commission proposals relating to the implementation of Article 101 of the implementing Regulation; (f) carry out all work, studies or assignments on matters referred to it by the Administrative Commission. 2.
The reimbursements provided for in Articles 36, 63 and 70 of the Regulation shall be made for all the competent institutions of a Member State to the creditor institutions of another Member State through the agency of the bodies designated by the competent authorities of the Member States.
Article 103 Compilation of statistical and accounting data The competent authorities of the Member States shall take all the necessary measures for the implementation of the present Title, in particular those necessitating the compilation of statistical or accounting data.
Article 104 (8) Entry in Annex 5 of agreements on refunds between Member States or the competent authorities of the Member States 1.
Costs of administrative checks and medical examinations Article 105 1.
However, two or more Member States or the competent authorities of such Member States may agree on other methods of refund, in particular on a lump-sum basis, or they may waive all refunds between institutions.
Such agreements shall be entered in Annex 5 to the implementing Regulation.
Article 107 (9) (11) (12) (14) Currency conversion 1.
If the right to benefits in kind is not recognized by the competent institution, the benefits in kind which have been provided to a person employed in international transport by the institution of the place of stay by virtue of the presumption referred to in Article 20 (1) or 62 (1) of the implementing Regulation, shall be refunded by the competent institution. 2.
The said institution shall notify these debits to the Audit Board referred to in Article 101 (3) of the implementing Regulation which shall draw up a statement thereof.
Article 116 Agreements relating to the recovery of contributions 1.
Agreements concluded pursuant to Article 92 (2) of the Regulation shall be entered in Annex 5 to the implementing Regulation. 2.
Agreements concluded for the implementation of Article 51 of the Regulation shall continue to apply provided they are included in Annex 5 to the implementing Regulation.
TITLE VII TRANSITIONAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS Article 118 (6) (12) Transitional provisions relating to pensions for employed persons 1.
Where the contingency arises before 1 October 1972 or before the date of implementation of the implementing Regulation in the territory of the Member State concerned and the claim for pension has not been awarded before that date, such claim shall give rise to a double award, in as much as benefits must be granted, pursuant to such contingency, for a period prior to that date: (a) for the period prior to 1 October 1972 or to the date of implementation of the implementing Regulation in the territory of the Member State concerned, in accordance with the Regulation or agreements in force between the Member States concerned. (b) for the period commencing on 1 October 1972 or on the date of implementation of the implementing Regulation in the territory of the Member State concerned, in accordance with the Regulation.
Article 119 (6) (12) Transitional provisions relating to pensions for self-employed persons 1.
Where the contingency arises before 1 July 1982 or before the date of implementation of the implementing Regulation in the territory of the Member State concerned and the claim for pension has not been awarded before that date, such claim shall give rise to a double award, in as much as benefits must be granted, pursuant to such contingency, for a period prior to that date: TEXT CONTINUED UNDER DOC.NUM: 397R0118.6 (a) for the period prior to 1 July 1982 or to the date of implementation of the implementing Regulation in the territory of the Member State concerned, in accordance with the Regulation or agreements in force between the Member States concerned before that date; (b) for the period commencing on 1 July 1982 or on the date of implementation of the implementing Regulation in the territory of the Member State concerned, in accordance with the Regulation.
Where the date on which the contingency arises precedes 1 January 1987 and where the claim for a pension has not yet resulted in an award before that date, such claim shall, in as much as benefits must be granted, pursuant to such contingency, for a period prior to the last-mentioned date, give rise to a double award: (a) for the period prior to 1 January 1987, in accordance with the provisions of the Regulation or of agreements in force between the Member States concerned; (b) for the period commencing on 1 January 1987, in accordance with the provisions of the Regulation.
If, however, the amount calculated in pursuance of the provisions referred to under (a) is greater than that calculated in pursuance of the provisions referred to under (b), the person concerned shall continue to be entitled to the amount calculated in pursuance of the provisions referred to under (a). 2.
The rights of the persons concerned who obtained the award of pensions prior to 1 January 1987 in the territory of the Member State in question may be revised at their request in the light of the provisions of Council Regulation (EEC) No 3811/86 (4). 4.
If the request referred to in paragraph 3 is submitted within one year following 1 January 1987, entitlement to rights under Regulation (EEC) No 3811/86 shall be acquired from 1 January 1987 or from the date of the entitlement to a pension where the last-mentioned date is subsequent to 1 January 1987; in such case the provisions of the legislation of any Member State with regard to the withdrawal or limitation of rights may not be relied upon as against the persons concerned. 5.
Two or more Member States or the competent authorities of those Member States may, where necessary, conclude agreements designed to supplement the administrative procedure for implementing the Regulation.
Such agreements are listed in Annex 5 to the implementing Regulation. 2.
ANNEX 1 (A) (B) (3) (4) (9) (13) (15) COMPETENT AUTHORITIES (Article 1 (1) of the Regulation, and Articles 4 (1) and 122 of the implementing Regulation) %gt%TABLE%gt% ANNEX 2 (A) (B) (2) (3) (7) (8) (9) (13) (14) (15) COMPETENT INSTITUTIONS (Article 1 (o) of the Regulation and Article 4 (2) of the implementing Regulation) %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt% TABLE POSITION%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% ANNEX 3 (A) (B) (2) (3) (7) (9) (12) (13) (14) (15) INSTITUTIONS OF THE PLACE OF RESIDENCE AND INSTITUTIONS OF THE PLACE OF STAY (Article 1 (p) of the Regulation and Article 4 (3) of the implementing Regulation) %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt% TABLE POSITION%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% ANNEX 4 (A) (B) (2) (3) (7) (9) (12) (13) (14) (15) LIAISON BODIES (Articles 3 (1), 4 (4) and 122 of the implementing Regulation) %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt% TABLE POSITION%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% ANNEX 5 (A) (B) (4) (7) (9) (12) (13) (14) (15) IMPLEMENTING PROVISIONS OF BILATERAL CONVENTIONS WHICH REMAIN IN FORCE (Articles 4 (5), 5, 53 (3), 104, 105 (2), 116, 121 and 122 of the implementing Regulation) General observations I.
BELGIUM-DENMARK The Arrangement of 23 November 1978 on the reciprocal waiving of reimbursement pursuant to Article 36 (3) (sickness and maternity benefits in kind) of the Regulation and Article 105 (2) (costs of administrative checks and medical examinations) of the implementing Regulation. 2.
BELGIUM-SPAIN None. 4.
BELGIUM-GREECE None. 6.
BELGIUM-IRELAND The exchange of letters of 19 May and 28 July 1981 concerning Articles 36 (3) and 70 (3) of the Regulation (reciprocal waiving of reimbursement of the costs of benefits in kind and of unemployment benefits under the provisions of Chapters 1 and 6 of Title III of the Regulation) and Article 105 (2) of the implementing Regulation (reciprocal waiving of reimbursement of the costs of administrative checks and medical examinations). 7.
BELGIUM-AUSTRIA None. 11.
BELGIUM-PORTUGAL None. 12.
BELGIUM-FINLAND Does not apply. 13.
BELGIUM-SWEDEN Does not apply. 14.
DENMARK-SPAIN Agreement of 1 July 1980 on the partial reciprocal waiving of reimbursement provided for in Articles 36 (3) and 63 (3) of the Regulation and the reciprocal waiving of reimbursement provided for in Article 105 (2) of the implementing Regulation. (Partial waiving of reimbursement in respect of benefits in kind for sickness, maternity, accidents at work and occupational diseases and waiving of reimbursement in respect of administrative checks and medical examinations). 17.
DENMARK-FRANCE The Agreement of 29 June 1979 waiving the reimbursement of benefits in kind in respect of sickness, maternity and accidents at work, with the exception of benefits pursuant to Articles 28, 28a, 29 (1) and 31 of the Regulation, the Agreement of 29 June 1979 waiving the reimbursement of unemployment benefits and the Agreement of 29 June 1979 waiving the reimbursement of the costs of administrative checks and medical examinations. 18.
DENMARK-GREECE Agreement of 8 May 1986 on the partial reciprocal waiving of reimbursement provided for in Articles 36 (3) and 63 (3) of the Regulation and the reciprocal waiving of reimbursement provided for in Article 105 (2) of the implementing Regulation. (Partial waiving of reimbursement in respect of benefits in kind for sickness, maternity, accidents at work and occupational diseases and waiving of reimbursement in respect of administrative checks and medical examinations). 19.
DENMARK-IRELAND The exchange of letters of 22 December 1980 and 11 February 1981 on the reciprocal waiving of reimbursement of the costs of benefits in kind granted under insurance for sickness, maternity, accidents at work and occupational diseases, and of unemployment benefits and of the costs of administrative checks and medical examinations (Articles 36 (3), 63 (3), and 70 (3) of the Regulation and Article 105 (2) of the implementing Regulation). 20.
DENMARK-ITALY The exchange of letters of 12 November 1982 and 12 January 1983 concerning Article 36 (3) of the Regulation (reciprocal waiving of reimbursement of costs of benefits in kind for sickness and maternity provided under the terms of Chapter 1 of Title III of the Regulation with the exception of Article 22 (1) (c) of the Regulation). 21.
DENMARK-LUXEMBOURG The Agreement of 19 June 1978 concerning the reciprocal waiving of reimbursement provided for in Article 36 (3), 63 (3) and 70 (3) of the Regulation and Article 105 (2) of the implementing Regulation (costs of benefits in kind for sickness, maternity, accidents at work and occupational diseases, costs of unemployment benefit and costs of administrative checks and medical examinations). 22.
DENMARK-AUSTRIA Agreement of 13 February 1995 concerning the reimbursement of expenditure in the field of social security. 24.
DENMARK-PORTUGAL Does not apply. 25.
DENMARK-FINLAND Article 23 of the Nordic Convention on social security of 15 June 1992: agreement on the reciprocal waiver of refunds pursuant to Articles 36 (3), 63 (3) and 70 (3) of the Regulation (costs of benefits in kind in respect of sickness and maternity, accidents at work and occupational diseases, and unemployment benefits) and Article 105 (2) of the implementing Regulation (costs of administrative checks and medical examinations). 26.
DENMARK-SWEDEN Article 23 of the Nordic Convention on social security of 15 June 1992: agreement on the reciprocal waiver of refunds pursuant to Articles 36 (3), 63 (3) and 70 (3) of the Regulation (costs of benefits in kind in respect of sickness and maternity, accidents at work and occupational diseases, and unemployment benefits) and article 105 (2) of the implementing Regulation (costs of administrative checks and medical examinations). 27.
DENMARK-UNITED KINGDOM 1.
The exchange of letters of 5 March and 10 September 1984 relating to the non-application to self-employed persons of agreements regarding the waiver of reimbursement of unemployment benefits paid pursuant to Article 69 of the Regulation, in dealings with Gibraltar. 28.
GERMANY-SPAIN Agreement of 25 June 1990 relating to the reimbursement of costs for benefits in kind in the case of sickness. 29.
GERMANY-IRELAND The Agreement of 20 March 1981 concerning Articles 36 (3), 63 (3) and 70 (3) of the Regulation (reciprocal waiving of reimbursement of the costs of benefits in kind in respect of sickness, maternity, accidents at work and occupational diseases, and of unemployment benefits) and Article 105 (2) of the implementing Regulation (reciprocal waiving of reimbursement of the costs of administrative and medical controls). 32.
GERMANY-PORTUGAL None. 37.
GERMANY-FINLAND None. 38.
GERMANY-SWEDEN None. 39.
SPAIN-FRANCE None. 41.
SPAIN-GREECE Does not apply. 42.
SPAIN-IRELAND Does not apply. 43.
SPAIN-ITALY None. 44.
SPAIN-LUXEMBOURG None. 45.
SPAIN-NETHERLANDS None. 46.
SPAIN-AUSTRIA None. 47.
SPAIN-PORTUGAL Articles 42, 43 and 44 of the Administrative Arragement of 22 May 1970. 48.
SPAIN-FINLAND None. 49.
SPAIN-SWEDEN None. 50.
SPAIN-UNITED KINGDOM None. 51.
FRANCE-IRELAND The exchange of letters of 30 July and 26 Sepember 1980 concerning reciprocal waiver of the reimbursement of unemployment benefits (Article 70 (3) of the Regulation). 53.
FRANCE-AUSTRIA None. 57.
FRANCE-PORTUGAL None. 58.
GREECE-IRELAND No convention. 60.
GREECE-ITALY No convention. 61.
GREECE-LUXEMBOURG No convention. 62.
GREECE-NETHERLANDS The exchange of letters of 8 September 1992 and 30 June 1993 concerning the methods of reimbursement between institutions. 63.
GREECE-AUSTRIA None. 64.
GREECE-PORTUGAL Does not apply. 65.
GREECE-FINLAND None. 66.
GREECE-SWEDEN None. 67.
GREECE-UNITED KINGDOM No convention. 68.
IRELAND-ITALY No convention. 69.
IRELAND-LUXEMBOURG The exchange of letters of 26 September 1975 and 5 August 1976 concerning Articles 36 (3) and 63 (3) of the Regulation and Article 105 (2) of the implementing Regulation (waiving of reimbursement of the costs of benefits in kind provided pursuant to Chapter 1 or 4 of Title III of the Regulation, and of the costs of administrative checks and medical examinations referred to in Article 105 of the implementing Regulation). 70.
IRELAND-AUSTRIA None. 72.
IRELAND-PORTUGAL Does not apply. 73.
IRELAND-FINLAND Does not apply. 74.
IRELAND-SWEDEN Does not apply. 75.
IRELAND-UNITED KINGDOM The exchange of letters of 9 July 1975 regarding Articles 36 (3) and 63 (3) of the Regulation (arrangement for reimbursement or waiving of reimbursement of the costs of benefits in kind provided under the terms of Chapter 1 or 4 of Title III of the Regulation) and Article 105 (2) of the implementing Regulation (waiving of reimbursement of the costs of administrative checks and medical examinations). 76.
ITALY-LUXEMBOURG Article 4 (5) and (6) of the Administrative Arrangement of 19 January 1955 on the implementing provisions of the General Convention on Social Security (sickness insurance for agricultural workers). 77.
ITALY-AUSTRIA None. 79.
ITALY-PORTUGAL Does not apply. 80.
ITALY-FINLAND Does not apply. 81.
ITALY-SWEDEN None. 82.
ITALY-UNITED KINGDOM The exchange of letters of 1 and 16 February 1995 concerning Articles 36 (3) and 63 (3) of the Regulation (reimbursement of waiving of reimbursement of expenditure for benefits in kind) and Article 105 (2) of the implementing Regulation (waiving of reimbursement of the costs of administrative checks and medical examinations). 83.
LUXEMBOURG-AUSTRIA Agreement of 22 June 1995 on the reimbursement of expenditure in the field of social security. 85.
LUXEMBOURG-PORTUGAL None. 86.
LUXEMBOURG-FINLAND Reimbursement - arrangement of 24 February 1994 under Articles 36 (3) and 63 (3) of the Regulation. 87.
LUXEMBOURG-SWEDEN None. 88.
NETHERLANDS-AUSTRIA Agreement of 17 November 1993 on the refund of social security costs. 90.
NETHERLANDS-FINLAND Reimbursement - arrangement of 26 January 1994 under Articles 36 (3) and 63 (3) of the Regulation. 92.
NETHERLANDS-SWEDEN None. 93.
AUSTRIA-PORTUGAL None. 95.
AUSTRIA-FINLAND Agreement of 23 June 1994 on the reimbursement of expenditure in the field of social security. 96.
AUSTRIA-SWEDEN Arrangement of 22 December 1993 on the reimbursement of costs in the field of social security. 97.
PORTUGAL-FINLAND Does not apply. 99.
PORTUGAL-SWEDEN None. 100.
PORTUGAL-UNITED KINGDOM Articles 3 and 4 of the Annex to the Administrative Arrangement of 31 December 1981 for the application of the Protocol on medical treatment of 15 November 1978. 101.
FINLAND-SWEDEN Article 23 of the Nordic Convention on social security of 15 June 1992: agreement on the reciprocal waiver of refunds pursuant to Articles 36 (3), 63 (3) and 70 (3) of the Regulation (costs of benefits in kind in respect of sickness and maternity, accidents at work and occupational diseases, and unemployment benefits) and Article 105 (2) of the implementing Regulation (costs of administrative checks and medical examinations). 102.
FINLAND-UNITED KINGDOM None. 103.
Old-age insurance for farmers: direct payment. 4.
ANNEX 9 (A) (B) (2) (12) (14) CALCULATION OF THE AVERAGE ANNUAL COST OF BENEFITS IN KIND (Articles 4 (9), 94 (3) (a) and 95 (3) (a) of the implementing Regulation) A.
For the purposes of applying Article 94 (3) (a) of the implementing Regulation: (a) Ortskrankenkassen (Local Sickness Funds) (b) Betriebskrankenkassen (Sickness Funds of Undertakings) (c) Innungskrankenkassen (Sickness Funds for Trade Guilds) (d) Bundesknappschaft (Federal Insurance Fund for Miners) (e) Seekasse (Mariners' Insurance Fund) (f) Ersatzkassen fr Arbeiter (Compensatory Funds for Manual Workers) (g) Ersatzkassen fr Angestellte (Compensatory Funds for Clerical Staff) (h) Landwirtschaftliche Krankenkassen (Agricultural Sickness Funds) depending on the fund which provided the benefits. 2.
invalidity insurance (arbeidsongeschiktheidsverzekering, WAO); 2.
insurance against special sickness costs (verzekering tegen bijzondere ziektekosten, AWBZ).
NETHERLANDS None.
The factors necessary for the calculation of the said lump sum shall be determined according to the following rules: (a) the average annual per capita cost shall be obtained for each Member State, by dividing the annual costs of the total benefits in kind provided by the institutions of that Member State to all pensioners whose pensions are payable under the legislation of that Member State, under the social security schemes to be taken into consideration and to members of their families, by the average annual number of pensioners and members of their families; the social security schemes to be taken into consideration for that purpose are specified in Annex 9; (b) in dealings between the institutions of two Member States, the average annual number of pensioners and members of their families to be taken into account shall be equal to the average annual number of pensioners and members of their families referred to in Article 28 (2) of the Regulation who, whilst residing in the territory of one of the Member States, are entitled to benefits in kind chargeable to the institution of the other Member State. 4.
In the event of any dispute, the observations of the institutions involved shall be submitted to the Audit Board provided for in Article 101 (3) of the implementing Regulation. 5.
The Administrative Commission shall lay down the methods and procedures for determining the calculation factors referred to in paragraphs 3 and 4. 6.
Two or more Member States or the competent authorities of those Member States may, after receiving the opinion of the Administrative Commission, agree to introduce other methods of assessing the amounts to be refunded. (1) OJ No L 136, 19. 5. 1992, p. 7. (2) OJ No L 136, 19. 5. 1992, p. 1. (3) This Article shall continue to apply until 1 January 1998.
However, in relations with the French Republic, it shall continue to apply until 1 January 2002.
See Appendix. (4) OJ No L 355, 16. 12. 1986, p. 5. (5) This Article shall apply from 1 January 1998.
Act of Accession of Spain and Portugal (OJ No L 302, 15. 11. 1985, P.23) B.
Made up to date by Council Regulation (EEC) No 2001/83 of 2 June 1983 (OJ No L 230, 22. 8. 1983, p. 6) 2.
Council Regulation (EEC) No 1661/85 of 13 June 1985 laying down the technical adaptations to the Community rules on social security for migrant workers with regard to Greenland (OJ No L 160, 20. 6. 1985, p. 7; Spanish text: DO Edicon especial, 1985 (05.04), p. 148; Portuguese text: OJ Edio Especial, 1985 (05.04), p. 148; Swedish text: EGT, Specialutgva 1994, omrde 05 (04), p. 67; Finnish text: EYVL:n erityispainos 1994, alue 05 (04), p. 67) 4.
Commission Regulation (EEC) No 513/86 of 26 February 1986 amending Annexes 1, 4, 5 and 6 to Council Regulation (EEC) No 574/72 laying down the procedure for implementing Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the Community (OJ No L 51, 28. 2. 1986, p. 44; Swedish text: EGT, Specialutgva 1994, omrde 05 (04), p. 73; Finnish text: EYVL:n erityispainos 1994, alue 05 (04), p. 73) 5.
Council Regulation (EEC) No 3811/86 of 11 December 1986 amending Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the Community and Regulation (EEC) No 574/72 laying down the procedure for implementing Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 (OJ No L 355, 16. 12. 1986, p. 5; Swedish text: EGT, Specialutgva 1994, omrde 05 (04), p. 86; Finnish text: EYVL:n erityispainos 1994, alue 05 (04), p. 86) 6.
Council Regulation (EEC) No 1305/89 of 11 May 1989 amending Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the Community and Regulation (EEC) No 574/72 laying down the procedure for implementing Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 (OJ No L 131, 13. 5. 1985, p. 1; Swedish text: EGT, Specialutgva 1994, omrde 05 (04), p. 143; Finnish text: EYVL:n erityispainos 1994, alue 05 (04), p. 143) 7.
Council Regulation (EEC) No 2332/89 of 18 July 1989 amending Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the Community and Regulation (EEC) No 574/72 laying down the procedure for implementing Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 (OJ No L 224, 2. 8. 1989, p. 1; Swedish text: EGT, Specialutgva 1994, omrde 05 (04), p. 154; Finnish text: EYVL:n erityispainos 1994, alue 05 (04), p. 154) 8.
Council Regulation (EEC) No 3427/89 of 30 October 1989 amending Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the Community and Regulation (EEC) No 574/72 laying down the procedure for implementing Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 (OJ No L 331, 16. 11. 1989, p. 1; Swedish text: EGT, Specialutgva 1994, omrde 05 (04), p. 165; Finnish text: EYVL:n erityispainos 1994, alue 05 (04), p. 165) 9.
Council Regulation (EEC) No 2195/91 of 25 June 1991 amending Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the Community and Regulation (EEC) No 574/72 laying down the procedure for implementing Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 (OJ No L 206, 29. 7. 1991, p. 2; Swedish text: EGT, Specialutgva 1994, omrde 05 (05), p. 46; Finnish text: EYVL:n erityispainos 1994, alue 05 (05), p. 46) 10.
Council Regulation (EEC) No 1247/92 of 30 April 1992 amending Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the Community and Regulation (EEC) No 574/72 laying down the procedure for implementing Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 (OJ No L 136, 19. 5. 1992, p. 1; Swedish text: EGT, Specialutgva 1994, omrde 05 (05), p. 124; Finnish text: EYVL:n erityispainos 1994, alue 05 (05), p. 124) 11.
Council Regulation (EEC) No 1248/92 of 30 April 1992 amending Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the Community and Regulation (EEC) No 574/72 laying down the procedure for implementing Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 (OJ No L 136, 19. 5. 1992, p. 7; Swedish text: EGT, Specialutgva 1994, omrde 05 (05), p. 130; Finnish text: EYVL:n erityispainos 1994, alue 05 (05), p. 130) 12.
Council Regulation (EEC) No 1249/92 of 30 April 1992 amending Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the Community and Regulation (EEC) No 574/72 laying down the procedure for implementing Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 (OJ No L 136, 19. 5. 1992, p. 28; Swedish text: EGT, Specialutgva 1994, omrde 05 (05), p. 151; Finnish text: EYVL:n erityispainos 1994, alue 05 (05), p. 151) 13.
Council Regulation (EEC) No 1945/93 of 30 June 1993 amending Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the Community, Regulation (EEC) No 574/72 laying down the procedure for implementing Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 and Regulation (EEC) No 1247/92 amending Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 (OJ No L 181, 23. 7. 1993, p. 1; Swedish text: EGT, Specialutgva 1994, omrde 05 (06), p. 63; Finnish text: EYVL:n erityispainos 1994, alue 05 (06), p. 63) 14.
Council Regulation (EC) No 3096/95 of 22 December 1995 amending Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the Community and Regulation (EEC) No 574/72 laying down the procedure for implementing Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 (OJ No L 335, 30. 12. 1995, p. 10)
