Having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee (3), (3) OJ No C 112, 3.5.1982, p. 60.
Articles 2, 3, 4 (1), (3) to (5), 6, 7, 13, 14, 15 (3) and (4), 16 to 21, 29 to 35, 37 to 41, 42 first sentence, 45 (1), 46, 48 to 50, 51 (1), 54, 56 to 59 and 61 of Directive 78/660/EEC shall apply to the institutions mentioned in Article 2 of this Directive, except where this Directive provides otherwise. 2.
References in Directives 78/660/EEC and 83/349/EEC to Articles 31 to 42 of Directive 78/660/EEC shall be deemed to references to those Articles, taking account of Articles 35 to 39 of this Directive. 4.
The Member States need not apply this Directive to: (a) the credit institutions listed in Article 2 (2) of Directive 77/780/EEC; (b) institutions of the same Member State which, as defined in Article 2 (4) (a) of Directive 77/780/EEC, are affiliated to a central body in that Member State.
In that case, without prejudice to the application of this Directive to the central body, the whole constituted by the central body and its affiliated institutions must be the subject of consolidated accounts including an annual report which shall be drawn up, audited and published in accordance with this Directive; (c) the following credit institutions: - in Greece: ETEBA (National Investment Bank for Industrial Development) and ******* ***** ***** (Investment Bank), - in Ireland: Industrial and Provident Societies, - in the United Kingdom: Friendly Societies and Industrial and Provident Societies. 4.
Cash in hand, balances with central banks and post office banks. 2.
Loans and advances to customers 5.
Intangible assets as described under Assets headings B and C.I of Article 9 of Directive 78/660/EEC, showing separately: - formation expenses, as defined by national law and in so far as national law permits their being shown as an asset (unless national law requires their disclosure in the notes on the accounts) - goodwill, to the extent that it was acquired for valuable consideration (unless national law requires its disclosure in the notes on the accounts) 10.
Tangible assets as described under Assets heading C.II of Article 9 of Directive 78/660/EEC, showing separately: - land and buildings occupied by a credit institution for its own activities (unless national law requires their disclosure in the notes on the accounts) 11.
Own shares (with an indication of their nominal value or, in the absence of a nominal value, their accounting par value to the extend that national law permits their being shown in the balance sheet) 13.
Other assets 14.
Subscribed capital called but not paid (unless national law requires that called-up capital be shown under Assets item 11 15.
Prepayments and accrued income 16.
Debts evidenced by certificates: (a) debt securities in issue (b) others 4.
Other liabilities 5.
Accruals and deferred income 6.
Provisions for liabilities and charges: (a) provisions for pensions and similar obligations (b) provisions for taxation (c) other provisions 7.
Subordinated liabilities 9.
In that case, the amounts of subscribed capital and paid-up capital must be shown separately) 0.
Contingent liabilities, showing separately: - acceptances and endorsements - guarantees and assets pledged as collateral security 2.
Article 7 The Member States may permit the disclosure of the information referred to in Articles 5 and 6, duly broken down into the various relevant items, in the notes on the accounts.
Funds which a credit institution administers in its own name but on behalf of third parties must be shown in the balance sheet if the credit institution acquires legal title to the assets concerned.
In the case of the sale and repurchase transactions referred to in paragraph 3, however, the transferor shall not be entitled to show in his balance sheet the assets transferred; those items shall be shown as assets in the transferee's balance sheet.
SECTION 4 SPECIAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO CERTAIN BALANCE SHEET ITEMS Article 13 Assets: Item 1 - Cash in hand, balances with central banks and post office banks 1.
This item may include only balances with the central banks and post office banks of the country or countries in which a credit institution is established.
Those debt instruments issued by public bodies which fail to meet the above condition shall be shown under Assets sub-item 5 (a). 2.
Article 15 Assets: Item 3 - Loans and advances to credit Institutions 1.
Loans and advances to credit institutions shall comprise all loans and advances arising out of banking transactions to domestic or foreign credit institutions by the credit institution drawing up the balance sheet, regardless of their actual designations.
The only exception shall be loans and advances represented by debt securities or any other security, which must be shown under Assets item 5. 2.
For the purposes of this Article credit institutions shall comprise all undertakings on the list published in the Official Journal of the European Communities pursuant to Article 3 (7) of Directive 77/780/EEC, as well as central banks and official domestic and international banking organizations and all private and public undertakings which are not established in the Community but which satisfy the definition in Article 1 of Directive 77/780/EEC.
Article 16 Assets: Item 4 - Loans and advances to customers Loans and advances to customers shall comprise all types of assets in the form of claims on domestic and foreign customers other than credit institutions, regardless of their actual designations.
Article 17 Assets: Item 5 - Debt securities including fixed-income securities 1.
This item shall comprise negotiable debt securities including fixed-income securities issued by credit institutions, by other undertakings or by public bodies; such securities issued by the latter, however, shall be included only if they are not to be shown under Assets item 2. 2.
Only repurchase and negotiable own-debt securities may be included in sub-item 5 (b).
Article 18 Liabilities: Item 1 - Amounts owed to credit institutions 1.
The only exception shall be liabilities represented by debt securities or by any other security, which must be shown under Liabilities item 3. 2.
For the purposes of this Article credit institutions shall comprise all undertakings on the list published in the Official Journal of the European Communities pursuant to Article 3 (7) of Directive 77/780/EEC, as well as central banks and official domestic and international banking organizations and all private and public undertakings which are not established in the Community but which satisfy the definition in Article 1 of Directive 77/780/EEC.
Article 19 Liabilities: Item 2 - Amounts owed to customers 1.
The only exception shall be liabilities represented by debt securities or by any other security, which must be shown under Liabilities item 3. 2.
Article 20 Liabilities: Item 3 - Debts evidenced by certificates 1.
Article 21 Liabilities: Item 8 - Subordinated liabilities Where it has been contractually agreed that, in the event of winding up or of bankruptcy, liabilities, whether or not evidenced by certificates, are to be repaid only after the claims of all other creditors have been met, the liabilities in question shall be shown under this item.
Article 22 Liabilities: Item 9 - Subscribed capital This item shall comprise all amounts, regardless of their actual designations, which, in accordance with the legal structure of the institution concerned, are regarded under national law as equity capital subscribed by the shareholders or other proprietors.
Article 23 Liabilities: Item 11 - Reserves This item shall comprise all the types of reserves listed in Article 9 of Directive 78/660/EEC under Liabilities item A.IV, as defined therein.
Article 24 Off-balance sheet: Item 1 - Contingent liabilities This item shall comprise all transactions whereby an institution has underwritten the obligations of a third party.
Article 27 Vertical layout 1.
Interest payable and similar charges 3.
Income from securities: (a) Income from shares and other variable-yield securities (b) Income from participating interests (c) Income from shares in affiliated undertakings 4.
Commissions receivable 5.
Commissions payable 6.
Net profit or net loss on financial operations 7.
Value adjustments in respect of Assets items 9 and 10 10.
Other operating charges 11.
Value adjustments in respect of loans and advances and provisions for contingent liabilities and for commitments. 12.
Value re-adjustments in respect of loans and advances and provisions for contingent liabilities and for commitments. 13.
Value adjustments in respect of transferable securities held as financial fixed assets, participating interests and shares in affiliated undertakings 14.
Value re-adjustments in respect of transferable securities held as financial fixed assets, participating interests and shares in affiliated undertakings 15.
Tax on profit or loss on ordinary activities 16.
Profit or loss on ordinary activities after tax 17.
Extraordinary income 18.
Extraordinary charges 19.
Extraordinary profit or loss 20.
Tax on extraordinary profit or loss 21.
Commissions payable 3.
Value adjustments in respect of Assets items 9 and 10 6.
Other operating charges 7.
Value adjustments in respect of loans and advances and provisions for contingent liabilities and for commitments 8.
Value adjustments in respect of transferable securities held as financial fixed assets, participating interests and shares in affiliated undertakings 9.
Tax on profit or loss on ordinary activities 10.
Profit or loss on ordinary activities after tax 11.
Extraordinary charges 12.
Tax on extraordinary profit or loss 13.
Income from securities: (a) Income from shares and other variable-yield securities (b) Income from participating interests (c) Income from shares in affiliated undertakings 3.
Commissions receivable 4.
Value re-adjustments in respect of loans and advances and provisions for contingent liabilities and for commitments 6.
Value re-adjustments in respect of transferable securities held as financial fixed assets, participating interests and shares in affiliated undertakings 7.
Profit or loss on ordinary activities after tax 9.
Extraordinary income 10.
Article 33 Article 27, items 11 and 12 (vertical layout) Article 28, items A 7 and B 5 (horizontal layout) Value adjustments in respect of loans and advances and provisions for contingent liabilities and for commitments Value re-adjustments in respect of loans and advances and provisions for contingent liabilities and for commitments. 1.
These items shall include, on the one hand, charges for value adjustments in respect of loans and advances to be shown under Assets items 3 and 4 and provisions for contingent liabilities and for commitments to be shown under Off-balance sheet items 1 and 2, on the other hand, credits from the recovery of written-off loans and advances and amounts written back following earlier value adjustments and provisions. 2.
In those Member States which exercise the option provided for in Article 37, this item shall also include the net profit or loss on transactions in securities included in Assets items 5 and 6 which are neither held as financial fixed Assets as defined in Article 35 (2) nor included in a trading portfolio, together with value adjustments and value re-adjustments on such securities taking into account, where Article 36 (2) has been applied, the difference resulting from application of that article.
The nomenclature of this item shall be adapted accordingly. 3.
The Member States may permit the charges and income covered by these items to be set off against each other, so that only a net item (income or charge) is shown. 4.
Article 34 Article 27, items 13 and 14 (vertical layout) Article 28, items A 8 and B 5 (horizontal layout) Value adjustments in respect of transferable securities held as financial fixed assets, participating interests and shares in affiliated undertakings Value re-adjustments in respect of transferable securities held as financial fixed assets, participating interests and shares in affiliated undertakings. 1.
The Member States may permit the charges and income covered by these items to be set off against each other, so that only a net item (income or charge) is shown. 3.
SECTION 7 VALUATION RULES Article 35 1.
Assets items 9 and 10 must be valued as fixed assets.
The assets included in other balance sheet items shall be valued as fixed assets where they are intended for use on a continuing basis in the normal course of an undertakings's activities. 2.
Where transferable securities which are not held as financial fixed assets are shown in the balance sheet at purchase price, credit institutions shall disclose in the notes on their accounts the difference between the purchase price and the higher market value of the balance sheet date. 2.
The Member States may, however, require or permit those transferable securities to be shown in the balance sheet at the higher market value at the balance sheet date.
Article 39 of Directive 78/660/EEC shall apply to the valuation of credit institutions' loans and advances, debt securities, shares and other variable-yield securities which are not held as financial fixed assets. 2.
Nevertheless, the difference between the two values must not be more than 4% of the total amount of the assets mentioned above after application of the aforementioned Article 39; (b) that the lower value resulting from the application of subparagraph (a) be maintained until the credit institution decides to adjust it; (c) where a Member State exercises the option provided for in subparagraph (a), neither Article 36 (1) of this Directive nor Article 40 (2) of Directive 78/660/EEC shall apply.
Pending subsequent coordination, those Member States which exercise the option provided for in Article 37 must permit and those Member States which do not exercise that option may permit the introduction of a Liabilities item 6 A entitled 'Fund for general banking risks'.
The net balance of the increases and decreases of the 'Fund for general banking risks' must be shown separately in the profit and loss account.
The Member States may, however, require forward transactions to be translated at the forward rate ruling on the balance sheet date. 3.
The Member States may, however, require or permit differences produced by translation in accordance with paragraphs 1 and 2 to be included, in whole or in part, in reserves not available for distribution, where they arise on assets held as financial fixed assets, on tangible and intangible assets and on any transactions undertaken to cover those assets. 4.
If a method specified in Article 59 of Directive 78/660/EEC is used, the Member States may provide that any translation differences shall be transferred, in whole or in part, directly to reserves.
Article 43 (1) of Directive 78/660/EEC shall apply, subject to Article 37 of this Directive and to the following provisions. 2.
In place of the information required under Article 43 (1) (8) of Directive 78/660/EEC, a credit institution shall indicate in the notes on its accounts the proportion of its income relating to items 1, 3, 4, 6 and 7 of Article 27 or to items B 1, B 2, B 3, B 4 and B 7 of Article 28 by geographical markets, in so far as, taking account of the manner in which the credit institution is organized, those markets differ substantially from one another.
Article 45 (1) (b) of Directive 78/660/EEC shall apply. 6.
The information prescribed in Article 15 (3) of Directive 78/660/EEC must be given in respect of assets held as fixed assets as defined in Article 35 of this Directive.
The obligation to show value adjustments separately shall not, however, apply where a Member State has permitted set-offs between value adjustments pursuant to Article 34 (2) of this Directive.
SECTION 9 PROVISIONS RELATING TO CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS Article 42 1.
Credit institutions shall draw up consolidated accounts and consolidated annual reports in accordance with Directive 83/349/EEC, in so far as this section does not provide otherwise. 2.
SECTION 10 PUBLICATON Article 44 1.
In that case, it shall be made available to the public at the company's registered office in the Member State concerned.
SECTION 12 FINAL PROVISIONS Article 46 The Contact Committee established in accordance with Article 52 of Directive 78/660/EEC shall, when meeting as constituted appropriately, also have the following functions: (a) to facilitate, without prejudice to Articles 169 and 170 of the Treaty, harmonized application of this Directive through regular meetings dealing in particular with practical problems arising in connection with its application; (b) to advise the Commission, if necessary, on additions or amendments to this Directive.
The Member States shall bring into force the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary for them to comply with this Directive by 31 December 1990.
A Member State may provide that the provisions referred to in paragraph 1 shall first apply to annual accounts and consolidated accounts for financial years beginning on 1 January 1993 or during the calendar year 1993. 3.
Article 48 Five years the date referred to in Article 47 (2), the Council, acting on a proposal from the Commission, shall examine and if need be revise all those provisions of this Directive which provide for Member State options, together with Articles 2 (1), 27, 28 and 41, in the light of the experience acquired in applying this Directive and in particular of the aims of greater transparency and harmonization of the provisions referred to by this Directive.
Article 49 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
