Without prejudice to Article 2, performance of a contract of transaction shall also be regarded as having been affected by measures decided on pursuant to United Nations Security Council Resolution 883 (1993) and related resolutions where the existence or content of the claim results directly or indirectly from those measures.
It shall be prohibited to satisfy or to take any step to satisfy a claim made by; (a) a person or body in Libya or acting through a person or body in Libya; (b) any person or body acting, directly or indirectly, on behalf of or for the benefit of one or more persons or bodies in Libya; (c) any person or body taking advantage of a transfer or rights of, or otherwise claiming through or under, one or more persons or bodies in Libya; (d) any other person or body referred to in paragraph 8 of United Nations Security Council Resolution 883 (1993); (e) any person or body making a claim arising from or in connection with the payment of a bond or financial guarantee or indemnity to one or more of the abovementioned persons or bodies, under or in connection with a contract or transaction the performance of which was affected, directly or indirectly, wholly or in part, by the measures decided on pursuant to United Nations Security Council Resolution 883 (1993) and related resolutions. 2.
The prohibition referred to in paragraph 1 shall apply within the Community and to any national of a Member State and any body which is incorporated or constituted under the law of a Member State.
Article 4 In any proceedings for the enforcement of a claim, the onus of proving that satisfying the claim is not prohibited by Article 2 shall be on the person seeking the enforcement of that claim.
Article 5 Each Member State shall determine the sanctions to be imposed where the provisions of this Regulation are infringed.
Article 6 This Regulation shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
It shall apply as of 1 December 1993, 00.01 hours Eastern Standard Time in New York.
Done at Brussels, 29 November 1993.
COĂ&#x2039;ME (1) OJ No L 101, 15. 4. 1992, p. 53. (2) See page 1 of this Official Journal.
