Article 2 Member States shall bring into force the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply, not later than 30 April 1996, with the provisions of this Directive.
Article 3 This Directive shall enter into force on 1 July 1995.
Article 4 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 14 July 1995.
For the Commission Ritt BJERREGAARD Member of the Commission ANNEX I '7.
Soils should be collected and handled in accordance with ISO 10381-6 (Soil quality - Sampling - Guidance on the collection, handling and storage of soil for the assessment of microbial processes in the laboratory).
Route of degradation Aim of the tests The data and information provided, together with other relevant data and information, should be sufficient to: - identify, where feasable, the relative importance of the types of process involved (balance between chemical and biological degradation), - identify the individual components present which at any time account for more than 10 % of the amount of active substance added, including, where feasible, non-extractable residues, - identify where possible also individual components present which account for less than 10 % of the amount of active substance added, - establish the relative proportions of the components present (mass balance), and - permit the soil residue of concern and to which non-target species are or may be exposed, to be defined.
Test conditions The degradation pathway or pathways must be reported for one soil.
Results obtained must be presented in the form of schematic drawings showing the pathways involved, and in the form of balance sheets which show the distribution of radio-label as a function of time, as between: - active substance, - CO2, - volatile compounds other than CO2, - individual identified transformation products, - extractable substances not identified, and - non-extractable residues in soil.
Test conditions and test guideline The same provisions as provided for under the corresponding paragraph of point 7.1.1.1.1 apply. - Soil photolysis Circumstances in which required A soil photolysis study must be reported unless it can be justified that deposition of the active substance at the soil surface is unlikely to occur.
Laboratory studies Aim of the tests The soil degradation studies should provide best possible estimates of the time taken for degradation of 50 % and 90 % (DT50lab and DT90lab), of the active substance, and of relevant metabolites, degradation and reaction products under laboratory conditions. - Aerobic degradation Circumstances in which required The rate of degradation in soil must always be reported, except where the nature and manner of use of plant protection products containing the active substance preclude soil contamination such as uses on stored products or wound healing treatments for trees.
In order to investigate the influence of temperature on degradation, one additional study at 10 째C has to be performed on one of the soils used for the investigation of degradation at 20 째C until a validated Community calculation model for the extrapolation of degradation rates at low temperatures is available.
Similar studies for three soil types must be reported for all relevant metabolites, degradation and reaction products which occur in soil and which at any time during the studies account for more than 10 % of the amount of active substance added, except where their DT50 values were able to be determined from the results of the degradation studies with the active substance.
Test guideline Setac - Procedures for assessing the environmental fate and ecotoxicity of pesticides. - Anaerobic degradation Circumstances in which required The rate of anaerobic degradation of the active substance must be reported where an anaerobic study has to be performed according to point 7.1.1.1.2.
Test conditions The rate of anaerobic degradation of the active substance must be carried out in the soil used in the anaerobic study performed according to point 7.1.1.1.2.
Similar studies for one soil must be reported for all relevant metobolites, degradation and reaction products which occur in soil and which at any time during the studies account for more than 10 % of the amount of active substance added, except where their DT50 values were able to be determined from the results of the degradation studies with the active substance.
Circumstances in which required Where plant protection products containing the active substance are intended to be used in cold climatic conditions, the tests have to be conducted where DT50lab, determined at 10 째C and at a moisture content of the soil related to a pF value of 2 to 2,5 (suction pressure) is greater than 90 days.
Test conditions Individual studies on a range of representative soils (normally four different types) must be continued until %gt% 90 % of the amount applied have dissipated.
The maximum duration of the studies is 24 months.
Test conditions Individual studies must be continued until harvest or time of sowing or planting succeeding crops, unless %gt% 90 % of the amount applied have dissipated.
Test guideline SETAC - Procedures for assessing the environmental fate and ecotoxicity of pesticides. 7.1.3.2.
Circumstances in which required The studies must be performed except: - where the nature and manner of use of preparations containing the active substance, preclude soil contamination such as uses on stored products or wound healing treatments for trees, or - where a separate study for the metabolite, degradation or reaction product in accordance to point 7.1.2 or 7.1.3.1 was performed.
Circumstances in which requried Expert judgement will be necessary to decide whether lysimeter studies or field leaching studies should be carried out, taking into account the results of degradation and other mobility studies and the predicted environmental concentrations in groundwater (PECGW), calculated in accordance with the provisions of Annex III, Section 9.
Test guideline SETAC - Procedures for assessing the environmental fate and ecotoxicity of pesticides. 7.2.
Test conditions and test guideline The same provisions as provided under the corresponding paragraphs of point 2.9.1 apply. 7.2.1.2.
Test guideline SETAC - Procedures for assessing the environmental fate and ecotoxicity of pesticides. 7.2.1.4.
For the purposes of the estimation of such concentrations the following definitions apply: - Predicted environmental concentration in soil (PECS) The level of residues in the top layer of the soil and to which non-target soil organisms may be exposed (acute and chronic exposure). - Predicted environmental concentration in surface water (PECSW) The level of residues, in surface water to which non-target aquatic organisms may be exposed (acute and chronic exposure). - Predicted environmental concentration in groundwater (PECGW) The level of residues in groundwater. - Predicted environmental concentration in air (PECA) The level of residues in air, to which man, animals and other non-target organisms may be exposed (acute and chronic exposure).
A useful approach for these estimations is provided in the EPPO schemes for environmental risk assessment (1).
When models are used for estimation of predicted environmental concentrations they must: - make a best-possible estimation of all relevant processes involved taking into account realistic parameters and assumptions, - where possible be reliably validated with measurements carried out under circumstances relevant for the use of the model, - be relevant to the conditions in the area of use.
Laboratory studies Aim of the test The soil degradation studies should provide best possible estimates of the time taken for degradation of 50 and 90 % (DT50lab and DT90lab) of the active substance under laboratory conditions.
Test conditions The same provisions as provided under the corresponding paragraph of Annex II, point 7.1.1.2.2.
Circumstances in which required Expert judgement will be necessary to decide whether field leaching studies or lysimeter studies should be carried out, taking into account the results of degradation and mobility studies and the calculated PECs.
Test conditions The same provisions as provided for under the corresponding paragraph of Annex II, point 7.1.3.3 apply. 9.1.3.
For the purposes of PECs calculations, the bulk density of soils can be assumed to be 1,5 g/cm3 dry weight, while the depth of the soil layer is assumed to be 5 cm for applications at the soil surface and 20 cm when incorporation in the soil is involved.
Where ground cover is present at time of application, it is to be assumed that 50 % (minimum) of the applied dose reaches the soil surface unless actual experimental data give more specific information.
Initial, short-term and long-term PECs calculations (time weighted averages) must be provided: - initial: immediately after application, - short-term: 24 hours, 2 days and 4 days after last application, - long-term: 7, 28, 50 and 100 days after last application, where relevant. 9.2.
Fate and behaviour in water 9.2.1.
Initial, short-term and long-term PECsw calculations relevant to static and slow moving water bodies (time weighted averages) must be provided: - initial: immediately after application, - short-term: 24 hours, 2 days and 4 days after last application, - long-term: 7, 14, 21, 28, and 42 days after last application, where relevant.
