In order to make it possible for non-governmental organisations (hereinafter referred to as %quot%NGOs%quot%) to take part in such a dialogue, the Sixth Environment Action Programme envisages the need for appropriate support, including Community finance, to NGOs. (4) NGOs active in the field of environmental protection have already demonstrated that they can contribute to the environment policy of the Community, as laid down in Article 174 of the Treaty, by active involvement in concrete environmental protection measures and in activities to increase the general awareness of the need for the protection of the environment with a view to sustainable development.
Article 2 In order to qualify for a grant, an NGO shall have the following characteristics and comply with the Annex: (a) it must be an independent and non-profit-making legal person primarily active in the field of environmental protection and enhancement with an environmental objective aimed at the public good and with a view to sustainable development; (b) it must be active at a European level, either singly or in the form of several coordinated associations with a structure (membership base) and activities covering at least three European countries.
Article 3 The Programme shall be open to the participation of European NGOs established in either: (a) the Member States; (b) the Associated Countries(6) in accordance with the conditions established in the respective Europe Agreements, in the additional protocols thereto and in the decisions of the respective Association Councils; (c) Cyprus, Malta or Turkey in accordance with conditions and procedures to be agreed with those countries; or (d) the Balkan countries forming part of the Stabilisation and Association process for countries of South-Eastern Europe(7) in accordance with conditions and procedures to be agreed with those countries.
The Commission shall publish a Call for Proposals in the Official Journal of the European Communities by 30 September each year, for grants in the following calendar year.
After assessing the proposals, the Commission shall decide which organisations are to receive financing in the following year, by 31 December each year, save for a delay in the adoption of the Community budget.
A grant shall not exceed 70 % of the applicant's average audited annual eligible expenses during the preceding two years, in the case of NGOs based in the Community, or 80 % in the case of NGOs based in the candidate countries and the Balkan countries, nor 80 % of the applicant's eligible expenses for the current year.
The amount of the grant shall become final only once the audited financial statement has been accepted by the Commission, ensuring that Community funds have been used in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Financial Regulation of 21 December 1977 applicable to the general budget of the European Communities(8).
The final payment shall be reduced accordingly if the total of Community grants, from this and any other programmes, exceeds 80 % of the audited eligible expenses of the beneficiary for the year. 4.
Pursuant to Article 256 of the Treaty, recovery orders shall be enforceable. 5.
This Programme shall start on 1 January 2002 and end on 31 December 2006. 2.
The financial framework for the implementation of this Programme for the period 2002 to 2006 is hereby set at EUR 32 million. 3.
Repeated failure in two successive years shall result in ineligibility for the remaining years of the programme. 2.
Article 10 A list of the beneficiaries to be financed under this Programme, together with the amount allocated, shall be published each year in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Article 11 The Commission shall provide a report to the Member States and the European Parliament by 30 April each year on the process of allocating grants for the current year, and outcomes from grants for the previous year.
The Commission shall convene a meeting of stakeholders to discuss this report by 30 June each year.
By 31 December 2004 at the latest, the Commission shall submit a report to the European Parliament and the Council on the achievement of the objectives of this Programme during the first three years and shall, if appropriate, make proposals for any adjustment to be made with a view to continuing or not continuing the Programme.
The European Parliament and the Council, in accordance with the Treaty, shall decide on the continuation of the Programme as from 1 January 2007.
Article 12 This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Done at Brussels, 1 March 2002.
Cox For the Council The President R.
