the diploma of membership of the Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons (MRCVS) gained by examination after a full course of study at a veterinary school in Ireland; (f) in Italy il diploma di laurea di dottore in medicina veterinaria accompagnato dal diploma d'abilitazione all'esercizio della medicina veterinaria awarded by the Minister of Education on the basis of the findings of the competent State Examining Board; (g) in Luxembourg 1.
le diplôme d'État de docteur en médecine vétérinaire (the State diploma in veterinary medicine) awarded by the State Examining Board and endorsed by the Minister of Education; 2.
CHAPTER IV USE OF ACADEMIC TITLE Article 5 1.
CHAPTER V PROVISIONS TO FACILITATE THE EFFECTIVE EXERCISE OF THE RIGHT OF ESTABLISHMENT AND FREEDOM TO PROVIDE SERVICES IN RESPECT OF THE ACTIVITIES OF VETERINARY SURGEONS A.
Provisions specifically relating to the right of establishment Article 6 1.
Article 8 Where a host Member State requires of its own nationals wishing to take up or pursue the activities referred to in Article 1, a certificate of physical or mental health, that State shall accept as sufficient evidence thereof the presentation of the document required in the Member State of origin or the Member State from which the foreign national comes.
Article 9 The documents referred to in Articles 6, 7 and 8 may not be presented more than three months after their date of issue.
In the cases referred to in Articles 6 (3) and 7 (2), a request for re-examination shall suspend the period laid down in paragraph 1.
Special provisions relating to the provision of services Article 12 1.
Member States may set up the centres referred to in paragraph 1 within the competent authorities and bodies which they must designate within the period laid down in Article 18 (1). 3.
CHAPTER VI FINAL PROVISIONS Article 15 When it has ground for doubt, the host Member State may require of the competent authorities of another Member State confirmation of the authenticity of the diplomas, certificates and other evidence of formal qualifications awarded in that other Member State and referred to in Chapter II and also confirmation of the fact that the person concerned has fulfilled all the training requirements laid down in Directive 78/1027/EEC.
Article 16 Within the time limit laid down in Article 18 (1), Member States shall designate the authorities and bodies competent to award or receive the diplomas, certificates and other evidence of formal qualifications as well as the documents and information referred to in this Directive and shall forthwith inform the other Member States and the Commission thereof.
Article 17 This Directive shall also apply to nationals of Member States who, in accordance with Regulation (EEC) No 1612/68, are pursuing or will pursue as employed persons the activities referred to in Article 1.
Article 19 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
