Directive 2000/12/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 March 2000 relating to the taking up and pursuit of the business of credit institutions Directive 2000/12/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 March 2000 relating to the taking up and pursuit of the business of credit institutions THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular the first and third sentences of Article 47(2) thereof, Having regard to the proposal from the Commission, Having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee(1), Acting in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 251 of the Treaty(2), Whereas: (1) Council Directive 73/183/EEC of 28 June 1973 on the abolition of restrictions on freedom of establishment and freedom to provide services in respect of self-employed activities of banks and other financial institutions(3), first Council Directive (77/780/EEC) of 12 December 1977 on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to the taking up and pursuit of the business of credit institutions(4), Council Directive 89/299/EEC of 17 April 1989 on the own funds of credit institutions(5), second Council Directive 89/646/EEC of 15 December 1989 on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to the taking up and pursuit of the business of credit institutions(6), Council Directive 89/647/EEC of 18 December 1989 on a solvency ratio for credit institutions(7), Council Directive 92/30/EEC of 6 April 1992 on the supervision of credit institutions on a consolidated basis(8), and Council Directive 92/121/EEC of 21 December 1992 on the monitoring and control of large exposures of credit institutions(9) have been frequently and substantially amended.
In such cases, the authorities applied to for authorisation must be able to identify the authorities competent to exercise supervision on a consolidated basis over that credit institution. (12) The home Member State may also establish rules stricter than those laid down in Article 5(1), first subparagraph and (2), and Articles 7, 16, 30, 51 and 65 for institutions authorised by its competent authorities. (13) The abolition of the authorisation requirement with respect to the branches of Community credit institutions necessitates the abolition of endowment capital. (14) By virtue of mutual recognition, the approach chosen permits credit institutions authorised in their home Member States to carry on, throughout the Community, any or all of the activities listed in Annex I by establishing branches or by providing services.
In order to preserve the confidential nature of the information forwarded, the list of addressees must remain within strict limits. (26) Certain behaviour, such as fraud and insider offences, is liable to affect the stability, including the integrity, of the financial system, even when involving institutions other than credit institutions. (27) It is necessary to specify the conditions under which such exchanges of information are authorised. (28) Where it is stipulated that information may be disclosed only with the express agreement of the competent authorities, these may, where appropriate, make their agreement subject to compliance with strict conditions. (29) Exchanges of information between, on the one hand, the competent authorities and, on the other, central banks and other bodies with a similar function in their capacity as monetary authorities and, where appropriate, other public authorities responsible for supervising payment systems should also be authorised. (30) For the purpose of strengthening the prudential supervision of credit institutions and protection of clients of credit institutions, it should be stipulated that an auditor must have a duty to report promptly to the competent authorities, wherever, as provided for by this Directive, he becomes aware, while carrying out his tasks, of certain facts which are liable to have a serious effect on the financial situation or the administrative and accounting organisation of a credit institution.
For credit institutions incorporated in the Member States, Annex III creates a similar possibility for the recognition of bilateral netting by the competent authorities and thereby offers them equal conditions of competition.
The competent authorities in the Member States should ensure that the calculation of add-ons is based on effective rather than apparent national amounts. (53) The minimum ratio provided for in this Directive reinforces the capital of credit institutions in the Community.
It is therefore appropriate to adopt a prudent approach in which, as a general rule, account is taken of the nominal value of exposures, but no weightings or degrees of risk are applied. (58) When a credit institution incurs an exposure to its own parent undertaking or to other subsidiaries of its parent undertaking, particular prudence is necessary.
More stringent restrictions need not, however be applied where the parent undertaking is a financial holding company or a credit institution or where the other subsidiaries are either credit or financial institutions or undertakings offering ancillary banking services, provided that all such undertakings are covered by the supervision of the credit institution on a consolidated basis.
It is therefore desirable that the Commission should examine with the Member States the prudential treatment of asset-backed securities and put forward, before 22 June 1999, proposals aimed at adapting existing legislation in order to define an appropriate prudential treatment for asset-backed securities.
The competent authorities may authorise a 50 % weighting to assets secured by mortgages on offices or on multipurpose commercial premises until 31 December 2006.
For the purposes of applying the supervision and control of large exposures, shall be considered as a credit institution, a credit institution according to the first paragraph, including branches of a credit institution in third countries and any private or public undertaking, including its branches, which corresponds to the definition in the first paragraph and which has been authorised in a third country; 2. %quot%authorisation%quot% shall mean an instrument issued in any form by the authorities by which the right to carry on the business of a credit institution is granted; 3. %quot%branch%quot% shall mean a place of business which forms a legally dependent part of a credit institution and which carries out directly all or some of the transactions inherent in the business of credit institutions; any number of places of business set up in the same Member State by a credit institution with headquarters in another Member State shall be regarded as a single branch; 4. %quot%competent authorities%quot% shall mean the national authorities which are empowered by law or regulation to supervise credit institutions; 5. %quot%financial institution%quot% shall mean an undertaking other than a credit institution, the principal activity of which is to acquire holdings or to carry on one or more of the activities listed in points 2 to 12 of Annex I; 6. %quot%home Member State%quot% shall mean the Member State in which a credit institution has been authorised in accordance with Articles 4 to 11; 7. %quot%host Member State%quot% shall mean the Member State in which a credit institution has a branch or in which it provides services; 8. %quot%control%quot% shall mean the relationship between a parent undertaking and a subsidiary, as defined in Article 1 of Directive 83/349/EEC, or a similar relationship between any natural or legal person and an undertaking; 9. %quot%participation%quot% for the purposes of supervision on a consolidated basis shall mean the ownership, direct or indirect, of 20 % or more of the voting rights or capital of an undertaking; 10. %quot%qualifiying holding%quot% shall mean a direct or indirect holding in an undertaking which represents 10 % or more of the capital or of the voting rights or which makes it possible to exercise a significant influence over the management of the undertaking in which a holding subsists. 11. %quot%initial capital%quot% shall mean capital as defined in Article 34(2)(1) and (2); 12. %quot%parent undertaking%quot% shall mean a parent undertaking as defined in Articles 1 and 2 of Directive 83/349/EEC.
Any country which reschedules its external sovereign debt is, however, precluded from Zone A for a period of five years; 15. %quot%Zone B%quot% shall comprise all countries not in Zone A; 16. %quot%Zone A credit institutions%quot% shall mean all credit institutions authorised in the Member States, in accordance with Article 4, including their branches in third countries, and all private and public undertakings covered by the definitions in point 1, first subparagraph and authorised in other Zone A countries, including their branches; 17. %quot%Zone B credit institutions%quot% shall mean all private and public undertakings authorised outside Zone A covered by the definition in point 1, first subparagraph, including their branches within the Community; 18. %quot%non-bank sector%quot% shall mean all borrowers other than credit institutions as defined in points 16 and 17, central governments and central banks, regional governments and local authorities, the European Communities, the European Investment Bank (EIB) and multilateral development banks as defined in point 19; 19. %quot%multilateral development banks%quot% shall mean the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the International Finance Corporation, the Inter-American Development Bank, the Asian Development Bank, the African Development Bank, the Council of Europe Resettlement Fund, the Nordic Investment Bank, the Caribbean Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European Investment Fund and the Inter-American Investment Corporation; 20. %quot%'full-risk', 'medium-risk', 'medium/low-risk' and 'low-risk' off-balance-sheet items%quot% shall mean the items described in Article 43(2) and listed in Annex II; 21. %quot%financial holding company%quot% shall mean a financial institution, the subsidiary undertakings of which are either exclusively or mainly credit institutions or financial institutions, one at least of such subsidiaries being a credit institution; 22. %quot%mixed-activity holding company%quot% shall mean a parent undertaking, other than a financial holding company or a credit institution the subsidiaries of which include at least one credit institution; 23. %quot%ancillary banking services undertaking%quot% shall mean an undertaking the principal activity of which consists in owning or managing property, managing data-processing services, or any other similar activity which is ancillary to the principal activity of one or more credit institutions; 24. %quot%exposures%quot% for the purpose of applying Articles 48, 49 and 50 shall mean the assets and off-balance-sheet items referred to in Article 43 and in Annexes II and IV thereto, without application of the weightings or degrees of risk there provided for; the risks referred to in Annex IV must be calculated in accordance with one of the methods set out in Annex III, without application of the weightings for counterparty risk; all elements entirely covered by own funds may, with the agreement of the competent authorities, be excluded from the definition of exposures provided that such own funds are not included in the calculation of the solvency ratio or of other monitoring ratios provided for in this Directive and in other Community acts; exposures shall not include: - in the case of foreign exchange transactions, exposures incurred in the ordinary course of settlement during the 48 hours following payment, or - in the case of transactions for the purchase or sale of securities, exposures incurred in the ordinary course of settlement during the five working days following payment or delivery of the securities, whichever is the earlier; 25. %quot%group of connected clients%quot% shall mean: - two or more natural or legal persons who, unless it is shown otherwise, constitute a single risk because one of them, directly or indirectly, has control over the other or others or - two or more natural or legal persons between whom there is no relationship of control as defined in the first indent but who are to be regarded as constituting a single risk because they are so interconnected that, if one of them were to experience financial problems, the other or all of the others would be likely to encounter repayment difficulties; 26. %quot%close links%quot% shall mean a situation in which two or more natural or legal persons are linked by: (a) participation, which shall mean the ownership, direct or by way of control, of 20 % or more of the voting rights or capital of an undertaking, or (b) control, which shall mean the relationship between a parent undertaking and a subsidiary, in all the cases referred to in Article 1(1) and (2) of Directive 83/349/EEC, or a similar relationship between any natural or legal person and an undertaking; any subsidiary undertaking of a subsidiary undertaking shall also be considered a subsidiary of the parent undertaking which is at the head of those undertakings.
Article 2 Scope 1.
Articles 25 and 52 to 56 shall also apply to financial holding companies and mixed-activity holding companies which have their head offices in the Community.
The institutions permanently excluded by paragraph 3, with the exception, however, of the Member States' central banks, shall be treated as financial institutions for the purposes of Articles 25 and 52 to 56. 3.
This Directive shall not apply to: - the central banks of Member States, - post office giro institutions, - in Belgium, the %quot%Institut de Réescompte et de Garantie/Herdiscontering- en Waarborginstituut%quot%, - in Denmark, the %quot%Dansk Eksportfinansieringsfond%quot%, the %quot%Danmarks Skibskreditfond%quot%, and %quot%Dansk Landbrugs Realkreditfond%quot%, - in Germany, the %quot%Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau%quot%, undertakings which are recognised under the %quot%Wohnungsgemeinnützigkeitsgesetz%quot% as bodies of State housing policy and are not mainly engaged in banking transactions, and undertakings recognised under that law as non-profit housing undertakings, - in Greece, the %quot%Ελληνική Τράπεζα Βιομηχανικής Αναπτύξεως,%quot%, (Elliniki Trapeza Viomichanikis Anaptyxeos), the %quot%Ταμείο Παρακαταθηκών και Δανείων%quot% (Tamio Parakatathikon kai Danion), and the %quot%Ταχυδρομικό Ταμιευτήριο%quot% (Tachidromiko Tamieftirio), - in Spain, the %quot%Instituto de Crédito Oficial%quot%, - in France, the %quot%Caisse des dépôts et consignations%quot%, - in Ireland, credit unions and the friendly societies, - in Italy, the %quot%Cassa depositi e prestiti%quot%, - in the Netherlands, the %quot%Netherlandse Investeringsbank voor Ontwikkelingslanden NV%quot%, the %quot%NV Noordelijke Ontwikkelingsmaatschappij%quot%, the %quot%NV Industriebank Limburgs Instituut voor Ontwikkeling en Financiering%quot% and the %quot%Overijsselse Ontwikkelingsmaatschappij NV%quot%, - in Austria, undertakings recognised as housing associations in the public interest and the %quot%Österreichische Kontrollbank AG%quot%, - in Portugal, %quot%Caixas Económicas%quot% existing on 1 January 1986 with the exception of those incorporated as limited companies and of the %quot%Caixa Económica Montepio Geral%quot%, - in Finland, the %quot%Teollisen yhteistyön rahasto Oy/Fonden för industriellt samarbete AB%quot%, and the %quot%Kera Oy/Kera Ab%quot%, - in Sweden, the %quot%Svenska Skeppshypotekskassan%quot%, - in the United Kingdom, the National Savings Bank, the Commonwealth Development Finance Company Ltd, the Agricultural Mortgage Corporation Ltd, the Scottish Agricultural Securities Corporation Ltd, the Crown Agents for overseas governments and administrations, credit unions and municipal banks. 4.
Credit institutions situated in the same Member State and permanently affiliated, on 15 December 1977, to a central body which supervises them and which is established in that same Member State, may be exempted from the requirements of Articles 6(1), 8 and 59 if, no later than 15 December 1979, national law provides that: - the commitments of the central body and affiliated institutions are joint and several liabilities or the commitments of its affiliated institutions are entirely guaranteed by the central body, - the solvency and liquidity of the central body and of all the affiliated institutions are monitored as a whole on the basis of consolidated accounts, - the management of the central body is empowered to issue instructions to the management of the affiliated institutions.
The Council shall decide by a qualified majority. 6.
In case of exemption, Articles 13, 18, 19, 20(1) to (6), 21 and 22 shall apply to the whole as constituted by the central body together with its affiliated institutions.
Article 5 Initial capital 1.
In that event, their own funds may not fall below the highest level reached with effect from 22 December 1989. 5.
If control of a credit institution falling within the category referred to in paragraph 4 is taken by a natural or legal person other than the person who controlled the institution previously, the own funds of that institution must attain at least the level prescribed for initial capital in paragraphs 1 and 2. 6.
Each Member State shall require that: - any credit institution which is a legal person and which, under its national law, has a registered office have its head office in the same Member State as its registered office, - any other credit institution have its head office in the Member State which issued its authorisation and in which it actually carries on its business.
Article 7 Shareholders and members 1.
The competent authorities shall also refuse authorisation if the laws, regulations or administrative provisions of a non-member country governing one or more natural or legal persons with which the credit institution has close links, or difficulties involved in their enforcement, prevent the effective exercise of their supervisory functions.
Article 9 Economic needs Member States may not require the application for authorisation to be examined in terms of the economic needs of the market.
Article 11 Notification of the authorisation to the Commission Every authorisation shall be notified to the Commission.
Article 12 Prior consultation with the competent authorities of other Member States There must be prior consultation with the competent authorities of the other Member State involved on the authorisation of a credit institution which is: - a subsidiary of a credit institution authorised in another Member State, or - a subsidiary of the parent undertaking of a credit institution authorised in another Member State, or - controlled by the same persons, whether natural or legal, as control a credit institution authorised in another Member State.
Article 13 Branches of credit institutions authorised in another Member State Host Member States may not require authorisation or endowment capital for branches of credit institutions authorised in other Member States.
The establishment and supervision of such branches shall be effected as prescribed in Articles 17, 20(l) to (6) and Articles 22 and 26.
Article 14 Withdrawal of authorisation 1.
Article 15 Name For the purpose of exercising their activities, credit institutions may, notwithstanding any provisions concerning the use of the words %quot%bank%quot%, %quot%savings bank%quot% or other banking names which may exist in the host Member State, use throughout the territory of the Community the same name as they use in the Member State in which their head office is situated.
Article 16 Qualifiying holding in a credit institution 1.
The Member States shall require any natural or legal person who proposes to hold, directly or indirectly a qualifying holding in a credit institution first to inform the competent authorities, telling them of the size of the intended holding.
Such a person must likewise inform the competent authorities if he proposes to increase his qualifying holding so that the proportion of the voting rights or of the capital held by him would reach or exceed 20 %, 33 % or 50 % or so that the credit institution would become his subsidiary.
If the acquirer of the holdings referred to in paragraph 1 is a credit institution authorised in another Member State or the parent undertaking of a credit institution authorised in another Member State or a natural or legal person controlling a credit institution authorised in another Member State and if, as a result of that acquisition, the institution, in which the acquirer proposes to hold a holding would become a subsidiary or subject to the control of the acquirer, the assessment of the acquisition must be the subject of the prior consultation referred to in Article 12. 3.
The Member States shall require any natural or legal person who proposes to dispose, directly or indirectly, of a qualifying holding in a credit institution first to inform the competent authorities, telling them of the size of his intended holding.
Such a person must likewise inform the competent authorities if he proposes to reduce his qualifying holding so that the proportion of the voting rights or of the capital held by him would fall below 20 %, 33 % or 50 % or so that the credit institution would cease to be his subsidiary. 4.
Similar measures shall apply to natural or legal persons failing to comply with the obligation to provide prior information, as laid down in paragraph 1.
Article 17 Procedures and internal control mechanisms Home Member State competent authorities shall require that every credit institution have sound administrative and accounting procedures and adequate internal control mechanisms.
TITLE III PROVISIONS CONCERNING THE FREEDOM OF ESTABLISHMENT AND THE FREEDOM TO PROVIDE SERVICES Article 18 Credit institutions The Member States shall provide that the activities listed in Annex I may be carried on within their territories, in accordance with Articles 20(1) to (6), 21(1) and (2), and 22, either by the establishment of a branch or by way of the provision of services, by any credit institution authorised and supervised by the competent authorities of another Member State, provided that such activities are covered by the authorisation.
Article 19 Financial institutions The Member States shall also provide that the activities listed in Annex I may be carried on within their territories, in accordance with Articles 20(1) to (6), 21(1) and (2), and 22, either by the establishment of a branch or by way of the provision of services, by any financial institution from another Member State, whether a subsidiary of a credit institution or the jointly-owned subsidiary of two or more credit institutions, the memorandum and articles of association of which permit the carrying on of those activities and which fulfils each of the following conditions: - the parent undertaking or undertakings must be authorised as credit institutions in the Member State by the law of which the subsidiary is governed, - the activities in question must actually be carried on within the territory of the same Member State, - the parent undertaking or undertakings must hold 90 % or more of the voting rights attaching to shares in the capital of the subsidiary. - the parent undertaking or undertakings must satisfy the competent authorities regarding the prudent management of the subsidiary and must have declared, with the consent of the relevant home Member State competent authorities, that they jointly and severally guarantee the commitments entered into by the subsidiary, - the subsidiary must be effectively included, for the activities in question in particular, in the consolidated supervision of the parent undertaking, or of each of the parent undertakings, in accordance with Articles 52 to 56, in particular for the calculation of the solvency ratio, for the control of large exposures and for purposes of the limitation of holdings provided for in Article 51.
The competent authorities of the home Member State shall ensure the supervision of the subsidiary in accordance with Articles 5(3), 16, 17, 26, 28, 29, 30, and 32.
Article 20 Exercise of the right of establishment 1.
Before the branch of a credit institution commences its activities the competent authorities of the host Member State shall, within two months of receiving the information mentioned in paragraph 3, prepare for the supervision of the credit institution in accordance with Article 22 and if necessary indicate the conditions under which, in the interest of the general good, those activities must be carried on in the host Member State. 5.
Article 21 Exercise of the freedom to provide services 1.
Any credit institution wishing to exercise the freedom to provide services by carrying on its activities within the territory of another Member State for the first time shall notify the competent authorities of the home Member State, of the activities on the list in Annex I which it intends to carry on. 2.
Article 22 Power of the competent authorities of the host Member State 1.
If, despite the measures taken by the home Member State or because such measures prove inadequate or are not available in the Member State in question, the institution persists in violating the legal rules referred to in paragraph 2 in force in the host Member State, the latter State may, after informing the competent authorities of the home Member State, take appropriate measures to prevent or to punish further irregularities and, in so far as is necessary, to prevent that institution from initiating further transactions within its territory.
The Member States shall inform the Commission of the number and type of cases in which there has been a refusal pursuant to Article 20(1) to (6) or in which measures have been taken in accordance with paragraph 4 of this Article.
TITLE IV RELATIONS WITH THIRD COUNTRIES Article 23 Notification of the subsidiaries of third countries' undertakings and conditions of access to the markets of these countries 1.
The competent authorities of the Member States shall inform the Commission: (a) of any authorisation of a direct or indirect subsidiary one or more parent undertakings of which are governed by the laws of a third country.
The Commission shall inform the Banking Advisory Committee accordingly.
When authorisation is granted to the direct or indirect subsidiary of one or more parent undertakings governed by the law of third countries, the structure of the group shall be specified in the notification which the competent authorities shall address to the Commission in accordance with Article 11. 2.
The Member States shall inform the Commission of any general difficulties encountered by their credit institutions in establishing themselves or carrying on banking activities in a third country. 3.
The Council shall decide by a qualified majority. 5.
Such limitations or suspension may not apply to the setting up of subsidiaries by credit institutions or their subsidiaries duly authorised in the Community, or to the acquisition of holdings in Community credit institutions by such institutions or subsidiaries. 6.
Article 24 Branches of credit institutions having their head offices outside the Community 1.
The competent authorities shall notify the Commission and the Banking Advisory Committee of all authorisations for branches granted to credit institutions having their head office outside the Community. 3.
Article 25 Cooperation with third countries' competent authorities regarding supervision on a consolidated basis 1.
The Commission may submit proposals to the Council, either at the request of a Member State or on its own initiative, for the negotiation of agreements with one or more third countries regarding the means of exercising supervision on a consolidated basis over: - credit institutions the parent undertakings of which have their head offices situated in a third country, and - credit institutions situated in third countries the parent undertakings of which, whether credit institutions or financial holding companies, have their head offices in the Community. 2.
The agreements referred to in paragraph 1 shall in particular seek to ensure both: - that the competent authorities of the Member States are able to obtain the information necessary for the supervision, on the basis of their consolidated financial situations, of credit institutions or financial holding companies situated in the Community and which have as subsidiaries credit institutions or financial institutions situated outside the Community, or holding participation in such institutions, - that the competent authorities of third countries are able to obtain the information necessary for the supervision of parent undertakings the head offices of which are situated within their territories and which have as subsidiaries credit institutions or financial institutions situated in one or more Member States or holding participation in such institutions. 3.
TITLE V PRINCIPLES AND TECHNICAL INSTRUMENTS FOR PRUDENTIAL SUPERVISION CHAPTER 1 PRINCIPLES OF PRUDENTIAL SUPERVISION Article 26 Competence of control of the home Member State 1.
The prudential supervision of a credit institution, including that of the activities it carries on accordance with Articles 18 and 19, shall be the responsibility of the competent authorities of the home Member State, without prejudice to those provisions of this Directive which give responsibility to the authorities of the host Member State. 2.
Article 27 Competence of the host Member State Host Member States shall retain responsibility in cooperation with the competent authorities of the home Member State for the supervision of the liquidity of the branches of credit institutions pending further coordination.
Such measures may not provide for discriminatory or restrictive treatment based on the fact that a credit institution is authorised in another Member State.
Article 28 Collaboration concerning supervision The competent authorities of the Member States concerned shall collaborate closely in order to supervise the activities of credit institutions operating, in particular by having established branches there, in one or more Member States other than that in which their head offices are situated.
Article 29 On-the-spot verification of branches established in another Member State 1.
Host Member States shall provide that, where a credit institution authorised in another Member State carries on its activities through a branch, the competent authorities of the home Member State may, after having first informed the competent authorities of the host Member State, carry out themselves or through the intermediary of persons they appoint for that purpose on-the-spot verification of the information referred to in Article 28. 2.
Article 30 Exchange of information and professional secrecy 1.
Nevertheless, where a credit institution has been declared bankrupt or is being compulsorily wound up, confidential information which does not concern third parties involved in attempts to rescue that credit institution may be divulged in civil or commercial proceedings. 2.
That information shall be subject to the conditions of professional secrecy indicated in paragraph 1. 3.
Competent authorities receiving confidential information under paragraphs 1 or 2 may use it only in the course of their duties: - to check that the conditions governing the taking-up of the business of credit institutions are met and to facilitate monitoring, on a non-consolidated or consolidated basis, of the conduct of such business, especially with regard to the monitoring of liquidity, solvency, large exposures, and administrative and accounting procedures and internal control mechanisms, or - to impose sanctions, or - in an administrative appeal against a decision of the competent authority, or - in court proceedings initiated pursuant to Article 33 or to special provisions provided for in this in other Directives adopted in the field of credit institutions. 5.
The information received shall be subject to the conditions of professional secrecy indicated in paragraph 1. 6.
Notwithstanding paragraphs 1 to 4, Member States may authorise exchanges of information between, the competent authorities and: - the authorities responsible for overseeing the bodies, involved in the liquidation and bankruptcy of credit institutions and other similar procedures, or - the authorities responsible for overseeing persons charged with carrying out statutory audits of the accounts of insurance undertakings, credit institutions, investment firms and other financial institutions.
Member States which have recourse to the provisions of the first subparagraph shall require at least that the following conditions are met: - the information shall be for the purpose of performing the supervisory task referred to in the first subparagraph, - information received in this context shall be subject to the conditions of professional secrecy imposed in paragraph 1, - where the information originates in another Member State, it may not be disclosed without the express agreement of the competent authorities which have disclosed it and, where appropriate, solely for the purposes for which those authorities gave their agreement.
Member States which have recourse to the provision in the first subparagraph shall require at least that the following conditions are met: - the information shall be for the purpose of performing the task referred to in the first subparagraph, - information received in this context shall be subject to the conditions of professional secrecy imposed in paragraph 1, - where the information originates in another Member State, it may not be disclosed without the express agreement of the competent authorities which have disclosed it and, where appropriate, solely for the purposes for which those authorities gave their agreement.
Where, in a Member State, the authorities or bodies referred to in the first subparagraph perform their task of detection or investigation with the aid, in view of their specific competence, of persons appointed for that purpose and not employed in the public sector, the possibility of exchanging information provided for in the first subparagraph may be extended to such persons under the conditions stipulated in the second subparagraph.
Before 31 December 2000, the Commission shall draw up a report on the application of the provisions of this paragraph. 8.
Information received in this context shall be subject to the conditions of professional secrecy imposed in this Article. 9.
However, the Member States shall provide that information received under paragraphs 2 and 5 and that obtained by means of the on-the-spot verification referred to in Article 29(1) and (2) may never be disclosed in the cases referred to in this paragraph except with the express consent of the competent authorities which disclosed the information or of the competent authorities of the Member State in which on-the-spot verification was carried out. 10.
The information received in this context shall be subject to the conditions of professional secrecy imposed in paragraph 1.
The Member States shall, however, ensure that information received under paragraph 2 may not be disclosed in the circumstances referred to in this paragraph without the express consent of the competent authorities which disclosed it.
Article 31 Duty of persons responsible for the legal control of annual and consolidated accounts 1.
Member States shall provide at least that: (a) any person authorised within the meaning of Council Directive 84/253/EEC(14), performing in a credit institution the task described in Article 51 of Council Directive 78/660/EEC(15), or Article 37 of Council Directive 83/349/EEC, or Article 31 of Directive 85/611/EEC(16), or any other statutory task, shall have a duty to report promptly to the competent authorities any fact or decision concerning that institution of which he has become aware while carrying out that task which is liable to: - constitute a material breach of the laws, regulations or administrative provisions which lay down the conditions governing authorisation or which specifically govern pursuit of the activities of credit institutions, or - affect the continuous functioning of the credit institution, or - lead to refusal to certify the accounts or to the expression of reservations; (b) that person shall likewise have a duty to report any fact and decisions of which he becomes aware in the course of carrying out a task as described in (a) in an undertaking having close links resulting from a control relationship with the credit institution within which he is carrying out the abovementioned task. 2.
Article 32 Power of sanction of the competent authorities Without prejudice to the procedures for the withdrawal of authorisations and the provisions of criminal law, the Member States shall provide that their respective competent authorities may, as against credit institutions or those who effectively control the business of credit institutions which breach laws, regulations or administrative provisions concerning the supervision or pursuit of their activities, adopt or impose in respect of them penalties or measures aimed specifically at ending observed breaches or the causes of such breaches.
Subject to the limits imposed in Article 38, the unconsolidated own funds of credit institutions shall consist of the following items: (1) capital within the meaning of Article 22 of Directive 86/635/EEC, in so far as it has been paid up, plus share premium accounts but excluding cumulative preferential shares; (2) reserves within the meaning of Article 23 of Directive 86/635/EEC and profits and losses brought forward as a result of the application of the final profit or loss.
The following items shall be deducted in accordance with Article 38: (9) own shares at book value held by a credit institution; (10) intangible assets within the meaning of Article 4(9) (%quot%Assets%quot%) of Directive 86/635/EEC; (11) material losses of the current financial year; (12) holdings in other credit and financial institutions amounting to more than 10 % of their capital, subordinated claims and the instruments referred to in Article 35 which a credit institution holds in respect of credit and financial institutions in which it has holdings exceeding 10 % of the capital in each case.
Where shares in another credit or financial institution are held temporarily for the purposes of a financial assistance operation designed to reorganise and save that institution, the competent authority may waive this provision; (13) holdings in other credit and financial institutions of up to 10 % of their capital, the subordinated claims and the instruments referred to in Article 35 which a credit institution holds in respect of credit and financial institutions other than those referred to in point (12) in respect of the amount of the total of such holdings, subordinated claims and instruments which exceed 10 % of that credit institution's own funds calculated before the deduction of items in point (12) and in this point.
Pending subsequent coordination of the provisions on consolidation, Member States may provide that, for the calculation of unconsolidated own funds, parent companies subject to supervision on a consolidated basis need not deduct their holdings in other credit institutions or financial institutions which are included in the consolidation.
Not later than 1 January 1998, the European Parliament and the Council shall, acting in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 251 of the Treaty and after consultation of the Economic and Social Committee, examine the definition of own funds with a view to the uniform application of the common definition. 4.
Article 35 Other items 1.
Article 36 Other provisions concerning own funds 1.
Article 37 Calculation of own funds on a consolidated basis 1.
Where the calculation is to be made on a consolidated basis, the consolidated amounts relating to the items listed under Article 34(2) shall be used in accordance with the rules laid down in Articles 52 to 56.
Moreover, the following may, when they are credit (%quot%negative%quot%) items, be regarded as consolidated reserves for the calculation of own funds: - any minority interests within the meaning of Article 21 of Directive 83/349/EEC, where the global integration method is used, - the first consolidation difference within the meaning of Articles 19, 30 and 31 of Directive 83/349/EEC, - the translation differences included in consolidated reserves in accordance with Article 39(6) of Directive 86/635/EEC, - any difference resulting from the inclusion of certain participating interests in accordance with the method prescribed in Article 33 of Directive 83/349/EEC. 2.
Article 38 Deductions and limits 1.
The items referred to in points (4) to (8) of Article 34(2), shall be subject to the following limits: (a) the total of the items in points (4) to (8) may not exceed a maximum of 100 % of the items in points (1) plus (2) and (3) minus (9), (10) and (11); (b) the total of the items in points (7) and (8) may not exceed a maximum of 50 % of the items in points (1) plus (2) and (3) minus (9), (10) and (11); (c) the total of the items in points (12) and (13) shall be deducted from the total of the items. 2.
Section 2 Solvency ratio Article 40 General principles 1.
The solvency ratio expresses own funds, as defined in Article 41, as a proportion of total assets and off-balance-sheet items, risk-adjusted in accordance with Article 42. 2.
The solvency ratios of credit institutions which are neither parent undertakings as defined in Article 1 of Directive 83/349/EEC, nor subsidiaries of such undertakings shall be calculated on an individual basis. 3.
The solvency ratios of credit institutions which are parent undertakings shall be calculated on a consolidated basis in accordance with the methods laid down in this Directive and in Directive 86/635/EEC. 4.
Where such monitoring of the satisfactory allocation of capital within a banking group is not carried out, other measures must be taken to attain that end. 5.
The valuation of assets and off-balance-sheet items shall be effected in accordance with Directive 86/635/EEC.
Article 41 The numerator: own funds Own funds as defined in this Directive shall form the numerator of the solvency ratio.
Article 42 The denominator: risk-adjusted assets and off-balance-sheet items 1.
The balance-sheet value of each asset shall then be multiplied by the relevant weighting to produce a risk-adjusted value. 2.
In the case of the off-balance-sheet items listed in Annex II, a two-stage calculation as prescribed in Article 43(2) shall be used. 3.
Those costs shall be multiplied by the relevant counterparty weightings in Article 43(1), except the 100 % weightings as provided for there shall be replaced by 50 % weightings to produce risk-adjusted values. 4.
Article 43 Risk weightings 1.
The methods set out in Annex III shall be applied to the off-balance-sheet items listed in Annex IV except for: - contracts traded on recognised exchanges, - foreign-exchange contracts (except contracts concerning gold) with an original maturity of 14 calendar days or less.
Member States shall inform the Commission of the use they make of this option. 4.
Where the potential exposure arising from off-balance-sheet transactions is fully and completely secured, to the satisfaction of the competent authorities, by any of the asset items recognised as collateral in paragraph 1(a)(7) and (b)(11), weightings of 0 % or 20 % shall apply depending on the collateral in question.
The Member States may apply a 50 % weighting to off-balance-sheet items which are sureties or guarantees having the character of credit substitutes and which are fully guaranteed, to the satisfaction of the competent authorities, by mortgages meeting the conditions set out in paragraph 1(c)(1), subject to the guarantor having a direct right to such collateral. 5.
Article 44 Weighting of claims for regional governments or local authorities of the Member States 1.
Notwithstanding the requirements of Article 43(1)(b), the Member States may fix a weighting of 0 % for their own regional governments and local authorities if there is no difference in risk between claims on the latter and claims on their central governments because of the revenue-raising powers of the regional governments and local authorities and the existence of specific institutional arrangements the effect of which is to reduce the chances of default by the latter.
Article 45 Other weighting 1.
Article 46 Administrative bodies and non-commercial undertakings For the purposes of Article 43 (1)(b), the competent authorities may include within the concept of regional governments and local authorities non-commercial administrative bodies responsible to regional governments or local authorities or authorities which, in the view of the competent authorities, exercise the same responsibilities as regional and local authorities.
Article 47 Solvency ratio level 1.
Credit institutions shall be required permanently to maintain the ratio defined in Article 40 at a level of at least 8 %. 2.
Section 3 Large exposures Article 48 Reporting of large exposures 1.
Member States shall provide that reporting is to be carried out, at their discretion, in accordance with one of the following two methods: - reporting of all large exposures at least once a year, combined with reporting during the year of all new large exposures and any increases in existing large exposures of at least 20 % with respect to the previous communication, - reporting of all large exposures at least four times a year. 3.
The reporting frequency laid down in the second indent to paragraph 2 may be reduced to twice a year for the exposures referred to in Article 49(7)(e) and (i), and also in paragraphs 8, 9 and 10. 4.
Article 49 Limits on large exposures 1.
A credit institution may not incur an exposure to a client or group of connected clients the value of which exceed 25 % of its own funds. 2.
Where that client or group of connected clients is the parent undertaking or subsidiary of the credit institution and/or one or more subsidiaries of that parent undertaking, the percentage laid down in paragraph 1 shall be reduced to 20 %.
A credit institution may not incur large exposures which in total exceed 800 % of its own funds. 4.
Member States may impose limits more stringent than those laid down in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3. 5.
Member States may fully or partially exempt from the application of paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 exposures incurred by a credit institution to its parent undertaking, to other subsidiaries of that parent undertaking or to its own subsidiaries, in so far as those undertakings are covered by the supervision on a consolidated basis to which the credit institution itself is subject, in accordance with this Directive or with equivalent standards in force in a third country. 7.
Member States may fully or partially exempt the following exposures from the application of paragraphs 1, 2 and 3: (a) asset items constituting claims on Zone A central governments or central banks; (b) asset items constituting claims on the European Communities; (c) asset items constituting claims carrying the explicit guarantees of Zone A central governments or central banks or of the European Communities; (d) other exposures attributable to, or guaranteed by, Zone A central governments or central banks or the European Communities; (e) asset items constituting claims on and other exposures to Zone B central governments or central banks which are denominated and, where applicable, funded in the national currencies of the borrowers; (f) asset items and other exposures secured, to the satisfaction of the competent authorities, by collateral in the form of Zone A central government or central bank securities, or securities issued by the European Communities or by Member State regional or local authorities for which Article 44 lays down a zero weighting for solvency purposes; (g) asset items and other exposures secured, to the satisfaction of the competent authorities, by collateral in the form of cash deposits placed with the lending institution or with a credit institution which is the parent undertaking or a subsidiary of the lending institution; (h) asset items and other exposures secured, to the satisfaction of the competent authorities, by collateral in the form of certificates of deposit issued by the lending institution or by a credit institution which is the parent undertaking or a subsidiary of the lending institution and lodged with either of them; (i) asset items constituting claims on and other exposures to credit institutions, with a maturity of one year or less, but not constituting such institutions' own funds; (j) asset items constituting claims on and other exposures to those institutions which are not credit institutions but which fulfil the conditions referred to in Article 45(2), with a maturity of one year or less, and secured in accordance with the same paragraph; (k) bills of trade and other similar bills, with a maturity of one year or less, bearing the signatures of other credit institutions; (l) debt securities as defined in Article 22(4) of Directive 85/611/EEC; (m) pending subsequent coordination, holdings in the insurance companies referred to in Article 51(3) up to 40 % of the own funds of the credit institution acquiring such a holding; (n) asset items constituting claims on regional or central credit institutions with which the lending institution is associated in a network in accordance with legal or statutory provisions and which are responsible, under those provisions, for cash-clearing operations within the network; (o) exposures secured, to the satisfaction of the competent authorities, by collateral in the form of securities other than those referred to in (f) provided that those securities are not issued by the credit institution itself, its parent company or one of their subsidiaries, or by the client or group of connected clients in question.
The excess value required shall be 100 % it shall, however, be 150 % in the case of shares and 50 % in the case of debt securities issued by credit institutions, Member State regional or local authorities other than those referred to in Article 44, and in the case of debt securities issued by the EIB and multilateral development banks.
Securities used as collateral may not constitute credit institutions' own funds; (p) loans secured, to the satisfaction of the competent authorities, by mortgages on residential property or by shares in Finnish residential housing companies, operating in accordance with the Finnish Housing Company Act of 1991 or subsequent equivalent legislation and leasing transactions under which the lessor retains full ownership of the residential property leased for as long as the lessee has not exercised his option to purchase, in all cases up to 50 % of the value of the residential property concerned.
For the purposes of paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, Member States may apply a weighting of 20 % to asset items constituting claims on and other exposures to credit institutions with a maturity of more than one but not more than three years and a weighting of 50 % to asset items constituting claims on credit institutions with a maturity of more than three years, provided that the latter are represented by debt instruments that were issued by a credit institution and that those debt instruments are, in the opinion of the competent authorities, effectively negotiable on a market made up of professional operators and are subject to daily quotation on that market, or the issue of which was authorised by the competent authorities of the Member State of origin of the issuing credit institutions.
In no case may any of these items constitute own funds. 10.
Where an exposure to a client is guaranteed by a third party, or by collateral in the form of securities issued by a third party under the conditions laid down in paragraph 7(o), Member States may: - treat the exposure as having been incurred to the third party rather than to the client, if the exposure is directly and unconditionally guaranteed by that third party, to the satisfaction of the competent authorities, - treat the exposure as having been incurred to the third party rather than to the client, if the exposure defined in paragraph 7(o) is guaranteed by collateral under the conditions there laid down. 12.
By 1 January 1999 at the latest, the Council shall, on the basis of a report from the Commission, examine the treatment of interbank exposures provided for in paragraphs 7(i), 9 and 10.
Article 50 Supervision on a consolidated or unconsolidated basis of large exposures 1.
If the credit institution is neither a parent undertaking nor a subsidiary, compliance with the obligations imposed in Articles 48 and 49 or in any other Community provision applicable to this area shall be monitored on an unconsolidated basis. 2.
In the other cases, compliance with the obligations imposed in Articles 48 and 49 or in any other Community provision applicable to this area shall be monitored on a consolidated basis in accordance with Articles 52 to 56. 3.
Member States may waive monitoring on an individual or subconsolidated basis of compliance with the obligations imposed in Articles 48 and 49 or in any other Community provision applicable to this area by a credit institution which, as a parent undertaking, is subject to monitoring on a consolidated basis and by any subsidiary of such a credit institution which is subject to their authoritisation and supervision and is covered by monitoring on a consolidated basis.
Section 4 Qualifying holdings outside the financial sector Article 51 Limits to non-financial qualifying holdings 1.
The total amount of a credit institution's qualifying holdings in undertakings other than credit institutions, financial institutions or undertakings carrying on activities referred to in the second subparagraph of Article 43(2)(f) of Directive 86/635/EEC may not exceed 60 % of its own funds. 3.
Shares held temporarily during a financial reconstruction or rescue operation or during the normal course of underwriting or in an institution's own name on behalf of others shall not be counted as qualifying holdings for the purpose of calculating the limits laid down in paragraphs 1 and 2.
The limits laid down in paragraphs 1 and 2 may be exceeded only in exceptional circumstances.
CHAPTER 3 SUPERVISION ON A CONSOLIDATED BASIS Article 52 Supervision on a consolidated basis of credit institutions 1.
Such supervision shall be exercised at least in the areas referred to in paragraphs 5 and 6. 2.
Every credit institution the parent undertaking of which is a financial holding company shall be subject, to the extent and in the manner prescribed in Article 54, to supervision on the basis of the consolidated financial situation of that financial holding company.
The Member States or the competent authorities responsible for exercising supervision on a consolidated basis pursuant to Article 53 may decide in the cases listed below that a credit institution, financial institution or auxiliary banking services undertaking which is a subsidiary or in which a participation is held need not be included in the consolidation: - if the undertaking that should be included is situated in a third country where there are legal impediments to the transfer of the necessary information, - if, in the opinion of the competent authorities, the undertaking that should be included is of negligible interest only with respect to the objectives of monitoring credit institutions and in all cases if the balance-sheet total of the undertaking that should be included is less than the smaller of the following two amounts: EUR 10 million or 1 % of the balance-sheet total of the parent undertaking or the undertaking that holds the participation.
If several undertakings meet the above criteria, they must nevertheless be included in the consolidation where collectively they are of non-negligible interest with respect to the aforementioned objectives, or - if, in the opinion of the competent authorities responsible for exercising supervision on a consolidated basis, the consolidation of the financial situation of the undertaking that should be included would be inappropriate or misleading as far as the objectives of the supervision of credit institutions are concerned. 4.
When the competent authorities of a Member State do not include a credit institution subsidiary in supervision on a consolidated basis under one of the cases provided for in the second and third indents of paragraph 3, the competent authorities of the Member State in which that credit institution subsidiary is situated may ask the parent undertaking for information which may facilitate their supervision of that credit institution. 5.
Supervision of solvency, and of the adequacy of own funds to cover market risks and control of large exposures shall be exercised on a consolidated basis in accordance with this Article and Articles 53 to 56.
Member States shall adopt any measures necessary, where appropriate, to include financial holding companies in consolidated supervision, in accordance with paragraph 2.
Compliance with the limits set in Article 51(1) and (2) shall be supervised and controlled on the basis of the consolidated or subconsolidated financial situation of the credit institution. 6.
In both cases set out in the first subparagraph, steps must be taken to ensure that capital is distributed adequately within the banking group.
If the competent authorities apply those rules individually to such credit institutions, they may, for the purpose of calculating own funds, make use of the provision in the last subparagraph of Article 3(2). 8.
Where a credit institution the parent of which is a credit institution has been authorised and is situated in another Member State, the competent authorities which granted that authorisation shall apply the rules laid down in paragraph 5 to that institution on an individual or, when appropriate, a subconsolidated basis. 9.
Member States shall provide that their competent authorities responsible for exercising supervision on a consolidated basis may ask the subsidiaries of a credit institution or a financial holding company which are not included within the scope of supervision on a consolidated basis for the information referred to in Article 55.
Article 53 Competent authorities responsible for exercising supervision on a consolidated basis 1.
Where a parent undertaking is a credit institution, supervision on a consolidated basis shall be exercised by the competent authorities that authorised it under Article 4. 2.
Where the parent of a credit institution is a financial holding company, supervision on a consolidated basis shall be exercised by the competent authorities which authorised that credit institution under Article 4.
However, where credit institutions authorised in two or more Member States have as their parent the same financial holding company, supervision on a consolidated basis shall be exercised by the competent authorities of the credit institution authorised in the Member State in which the financial holding company was set up.
Article 54 Form and extent of consolidation 1.
The competent authorities responsible for carrying out supervision on a consolidated basis must, in order to do so, require the proportional consolidation of participations in credit institutions and financial institutions managed by an undertaking included in the consolidation together with one or more undertakings not included in the consolidation, where those undertakings' liability is limited to the share of the capital they hold. 3.
Without prejudice to paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, the competent authorities shall determine whether and how consolidation is to be carried out in the following cases: - where, in the opinion of the competent authorities, a credit institution exercises a significant influence over one or more credit institutions or financial institutions, but without holding a participation or other capital ties in these institutions, - where two or more credit institutions or financial institutions are placed under single management other than pursuant to a contract or clauses of their memoranda or articles of association, - where two or more credit institutions or financial institutions have administrative, management or supervisory bodies with the same persons constituting a majority.
In particular, the competent authorities may permit, or require use of, the method provided for in Article 12 of Directive 83/349/EEC.
Article 55 Information to be supplied by mixed-activity holding companies and their subsidiaries 1.
Article 56 Measures to facilitate supervision on a consolidated basis 1.
Member States shall take the necessary steps to ensure that there are no legal impediments preventing the undertakings included within the scope of supervision on a consolidated basis, mixed-activity holding companies and their subsidiaries, or subsidiaries of the kind covered in Article 52(10), from exchanging amongst themselves any information which would be relevant for the purposes of supervision in accordance with Articles 52 to 55 and this Article. 2.
Where a parent undertaking and any of its subsidiaries that are credit institutions are situated in different Member States, the competent authorities of each Member State shall communicate to each other all relevant information which may allow or aid the exercise of supervision on a consolidated basis.
Where the competent authorities of the Member State in which a parent undertaking is situated do not themselves exercise supervision on a consolidated basis pursuant to Article 53, they may be invited by the competent authorities responsible for exercising such supervision to ask the parent undertaking for any information which would be relevant for the purposes of supervision on a consolidated basis and to transmit it to these authorities. 3.
Where a credit institution, financial holding company or a mixed-activity holding company controls one or more subsidiaries which are insurance companies or other undertakings providing investment services which are subject to authorisation, the competent authorities and the authorities entrusted with the public task of supervising insurance undertakings or those other undertakings providing investment services shall cooperate closely.
Information received, in the framework of supervision on a consolidated basis, and in particular any exchange of information between competent authorities which is provided for in this Directive, shall be subject to the obligation of professional secrecy defined in Article 30. 6.
The competent authorities responsible for supervision on a consolidated basis shall establish lists of the financial holding companies referred to in Article 52(2).
Without prejudice to their provisions of criminal law, Member States shall ensure that penalties or measures aimed at ending observed breaches or the causes of such breaches may be imposed on financial holding companies and mixed-activity holding companies, or their effective managers, that infringe laws, regulation or administrative provisions enacted to implement Articles 52 to 55 and this Article.
TITLE VI BANKING ADVISORY COMMITTEE Article 57 Composition and tasks of the Banking Advisory Committee 1.
The secretariat shall be provided by the Commission. 5.
Article 58 Examination of the requirements for authorisation The Banking Advisory Committee shall examine the content given by the competent authorities to requirements listed in Articles 5(1) and 6(1), any other requirements which the Member States apply and the information which must be included in the programme of operations, and shall, where appropriate, make suggestions to the Commission with a view to a more detailed coordination.
Article 59 Observation ratios 1.
The Banking Advisory Committee shall examine the results of analyses carried out by the supervisory authorities referred to in the third subparagraph of paragraph 1 on the basis of the calculations referred to in paragraph 2. 4.
The Banking Advisory Committee may make suggestions to the Commission with a view to coordinating the coefficients applicable in the Member States.
TITLE VII POWERS OF EXECUTION Article 60 Technical adaptations 1.
Without prejudice, regarding own funds, to the report referred to in the second subparagraph of Article 34(3), the technical adaptations in the following areas shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in paragraph 2: - clarification of the definitions in order to take account in the application of this Directive of developments on financial markets, - clarification of the definitions to ensure uniform application of this Directive in the Community, - the alignment of terminology on and the framing of definitions in accordance with subsequent acts on credit institutions and related matters, - the definition of %quot%Zone A%quot% in Article 1(14), - the definition of %quot%multilateral development banks%quot% in Article 1(19), - alteration of the amount of initial capital prescribed in Article 5 to take account of developments in the economic and monetary field, - expansion of the content of the list referred to in Articles 18 and 19 and set out in Annex I or adaptation of the terminology used in that list to take account of developments on financial markets, - the areas in which the competent authorities must exchange information as listed in Article 28, - amendment of the definitions of the assets listed in Article 43 in order to take account of developments on financial markets, - the list and classification of off-balance-sheet items in Annexes II and IV and their treatment in the calculation of the ratio as described in Articles 42, 43 and 44 and Annex III, - a temporary reduction in the minimum ratio prescribed in Article 47 or the weighting prescribed in Article 43 in order to take account of specific circumstances, - clarification of exemptions provided for in Article 49(5) to (10). 2.
TITLE VIII TRANSITIONAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS CHAPTER 1 TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS Article 61 Transitional provisions regarding Article 36 Denmark may allow its mortgage credit institutions organised as cooperative societies or funds before 1 January 1990 and converted into public limited liability companies to continue to include joint and several commitments of members, or of borrowers as referred to in Article 36(1) claims on whom are treated in the same way as such joint and several commitments, in their own funds, subject to the following limits: (a) the basis for calculation of the part of joint and several commitments of borrowers shall be the total of the items referred to in Article 34(2)(1) and (2), minus those referred to in Article 34(2)(9), (10) and (11); (b) the basis for calculation on 1 January 1991 or, if converted at a later date, on the date on conversion, shall be the maximum basis for calculation.
The basis for calculation may never exceed the maximum basis for calculation; (c) the maximum basis for calculation shall, from 1 January 1997, be reduced by half of the proceeds from any issue of new capital, as defined in Article 34(2)(1), made after that date; and (d) the maximum amount of joint and several commitments of borrowers to be included as own funds must never exceed: 50 % in 1991 and 1992, 45 % in 1993 and 1994, 40 % in 1995 and 1996, 35 % in 1997, 30 % in 1998, 20 % in 1999, 10 % in 2000, and 0 % after 1 January 2001, of the basis for calculation.
Article 62 Transitional provisions regarding Article 43 1.
Until 31 December 2006, the competent authorities of the Member States may authorise their credit institutions to apply a 50 % risk weighting to loans fully and completely secured to their satisfaction by mortgages on offices or on multi-purpose commercial premises situated within the territory of those Member States that allow the 50 % risk weighting, subject to the following conditions: (i) the 50 % risk weighting applies to the part of the loan that does not exceed a limit calculated according to either (a) or (b): (a) 50 % of the market value of the property in question.
The property shall be revalued at least once a year by one valuer.
For loans not exceeding EUR 1 million and 5 % of the own funds of the credit institution, the property shall be revalued at least every three years by one valuer; (b) 50 % of the market value of the property or 60 % of the mortgage lending value, whichever is lower, in those Member States that have laid down rigorous criteria for the assessment of the mortgage lending value in statutory or regulatory provisions.
In both (a) and (b) %quot%market value%quot% shall mean the price at which the property could be sold under private contract between a willing seller and an arm's-length buyer on the date of valuation, it being assumed that the property is publicly exposed to the market, that market conditions permit orderly disposal and that a normal period, having regard to the nature of the property, is available for the negotiation of the sale; (ii) the 100 % risk weighting applies to the part of the loan that exceeds the limits set out in (i); (iii) the property must be either used or let by the owner.
The first subparagraph shall not prevent the competent authorities of a Member State, which applies a higher risk weighting in its territory, from allowing, under the conditions defined above, the 50 % risk weighting to apply for this type of lending in the territories of those Member States that allow the 50 % risk weighting.
In this case the property shall be valued according to the assessment criteria laid down above not later than 21 July 2003.
For loans granted before 31 December 2006, the 50 % risk weighting remains applicable until their maturity, if the credit institution is bound to observe the contractual terms.
Until 31 December 2006, the competent authorities of the Member State may also authorise their credit institutions to apply a 50 % risk weighting to the part of the loans fully and completely secured to their satisfaction by shares in Finnish housing companies operating in accordance with the Finnish Housing Company Act of 1991 or subsequent equivalent legislation, provided that the conditions laid down in this paragraph are fulfilled.
Member States shall inform the Commission of the use they make of this paragraph. 2.
Member States shall inform the Commission of the use they make of this paragraph. 3.
Article 43(3) shall not affect the competent authorities' recognition of bilateral contracts for novation concluded concerning: - Belgium, before 23 April 1996, - Denmark, before 1 June 1996, - Germany, before 30 October 1996, - Greece, before 27 March 1997, - Spain, before 7 January 1997, - France, before 30 May 1996, - Ireland, before 27 June 1996, - Italy, before 30 July 1996, - Luxembourg, before 29 May 1996, - the Netherlands, before 1 July 1996, - Austria, before 30 December 1996, - Portugal, before 15 January 1997, - Finland, before 21 August 1996, - Sweden, before 1 June 1996, and - United Kingdom, before 30 April 1996.
Article 63 Transitional provisions regarding Article 47 1.
Such exceptions shall be reported to the Commission. 3.
Article 64 Transitional provisions regarding Article 49 1.
If, on 5 February 1993, a credit institution had already incurred an exposure or exposures exceeding either the large exposure limit or the aggregate large exposure limit laid down in Article 49, the competent authorities shall require the credit institution concerned to take steps to have that exposure or those exposures brought within the limits laid down in Article 49. 2.
The competent authorities shall inform the Commission and the Banking Advisory Committee of the schedule for the general process adopted. 3.
Until 31 December 1998, Member States may increase the limit laid down in Article 49(1) to 40 % and the limit laid down in Article 49(2) to 30 %.
In the cases referred to in paragraphs 5 and 6, an exposure may be considered a large exposure if its value is equal to or exceeds 15 % of own funds. 8.
Until 31 December 2001 Member States may substitute a frequency of at least twice a year for the frequency of notification of large exposures referred to in the second indent of Article 48(2). 9.
The same treatment applies to loans secured, to the satisfaction of the competent authorities, by shares in Finnish residential housing companies, operating in accordance with the Finnish Housing Company Act of 1991 or subsequent equivalent legislation which are similar to the mortgage loans referred to in the first subparagraph.
Article 65 Transitional provisions regarding Article 51 Credit institutions which, on 1 January 1993, exceeded the limits laid down in Articles 51(1) and (2) shall have until 1 January 2003 to comply with them.
Article 67 Repealed Directives 1.
Article 68 Implementation This Directive shall enter into force on the 20th day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Article 69 Addressees This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Fontaine For the Council The President J.
Safe custody services (1) Including, inter alia: - consumer credit, - mortgage credit, - factoring, with or without recourse, - financing of commercial transactions (including forfeiting).
ANNEX III THE TREATMENT OF OFF-BALANCE-SHEET ITEMS 1.
Perfectly matching contracts are forward foreign-exchange contracts or similar contracts in which a notional principal is equivalent to cash flows if the cash flows fall due on the same value date and fully or partly in the same currency.
Foreign-exchange contracts and contracts concerning gold: (a) cross-currency interest-rate swaps; (b) forward foreign-exchange contracts; (c) currency futures; (d) currency options purchased; (e) other contracts of a similar nature; (f) contracts concerning gold of a nature similar to (a) to (e). 3.
ANNEX V PART A REPEALED DIRECTIVES TOGETHER WITH THEIR SUCCESSIVE AMENDMENTS (referred to in Article 67) Council Directive 73/183/EEC Council Directive 77/780/EEC Council Directive 85/345/EEC Council Directive 86/137/EEC Council Directive 86/524/EEC Council Directive 89/646/EEC Directive 95/26/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council, only Article 1, first indent, Article 2(1), first indent and (2), first indent, Article 3(2), Article 4(2), (3) and (4), as regards references to Directive 77/780/EEC, and (6), and Article 5, first indent Council Directive 96/13/EC Directive 98/33/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council Council Directive 89/299/EEC Council Directive 91/633/EEC Council Directive 92/16/EEC Council Directive 92/30/EEC Council Directive 89/646/EEC Council Directive 92/30/EEC Directive 95/26/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council only Article 1, first indent Council Directive 89/647/EEC Commission Directive 91/31/EEC Council Directive 92/30/EEC Commission Directive 94/7/EC Commission Directive 95/15/EC Commission Directive 95/67/EC Directive 96/10/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council Directive 98/32/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council Directive 98/33/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (Article 2) Council Directive 92/30/EEC Council Directive 92/121/EEC PART B DEADLINES FOR IMPLEMENTATION (referred to in Article 67) %gt%TABLE%gt% ANΝΕΧ VI CORRELATION TABLE %gt%TABLE%gt%
