Council Regulation (EC) No 2320/97 of 17 November 1997 imposing definitive anti-dumping duties on imports of certain seamless pipes and tubes of iron or non-alloy steel originating in Hungary, Poland, Russia, the Czech Republic, Romania and the Slovak Republic, repealing Regulation (EEC) No 1189/93 and terminating the proceeding in respect of such imports originating in the Republic of Croatia COUNCIL REGULATION (EC) No 2320/97 of 17 November 1997 imposing definitive anti-dumping duties on imports of certain seamless pipes and tubes of iron or non-alloy steel originating in Hungary, Poland, Russia, the Czech Republic, Romania and the Slovak Republic, repealing Regulation (EEC) No 1189/93 and terminating the proceeding in respect of such imports originating in the Republic of Croatia THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, Having regard to Council Regulation (EC) No 384/96 of 22 December 1995 on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the European Community (1), and in particular Article 9 (4) thereof, Having regard to the proposal submitted by the Commission after consulting the Advisory Committee, Whereas: A.
PROCEDURE (1) By Regulation (EEC) No 1189/93 (2), the Council imposed definitive anti-dumping duties on imports of certain seamless pipes and tubes, of iron or non-alloy steel, originating in Hungary, Poland and the Republic of Croatia.
In addition, the Commission accepted undertakings (3) offered by the Hungarian, Polish and Croatian exporters. (2) On 31 August 1996, the Commission announced, by a notice published in the Official Journal of the European Communities (4), the initiation of an interim review of Regulation (EEC) No 1189/93 in respect of imports of certain seamless pipes and tubes of iron or non-alloy steel originating in Hungary, Poland and the Republic of Croatia and commenced an investigation pursuant to Article 11 (3) of Regulation (EC) No 384/96 (hereinafter referred to as 'the basic Regulation`). (3) This interim review investigation was initiated in parallel with an investigation opened on the same date (5) in respect of such imports originating in Russia, the Czech Republic, Romania and the Slovak Republic following a complaint lodged by the Defence Committee of the Seamless Steel Tube Industry of the European Union. (4) By Regulation (EC) No 981/97 (6) (hereinafter referred to as the 'provisional Regulation`), the Commission imposed a provisional anti-dumping duty on imports into the Community of the product in question originating in Russia, the Czech Republic, Romania and the Slovak Republic. (5) Following the imposition of the provisional anti-dumping measures, certain interested parties submitted comments in writing.
The Commission continued to seek and verify all information deemed necessary for its definitive findings. (6) On 22 May 1997, the Association Councils established under the Agreements between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Czech Republic, Romanian and the Slovak Republic, respectively, of the other part, were informed by letter of the Commission's intention to impose provisional measures.
The Czech, Romanian and Slovak authorities all objected that the Commission had acted in breach of the Europe Agreement (and in particular Article 34 (2) thereof) by failing to hold consultations before the proceeding was initiated, immediately after the initiation, or prior to the imposition of provisional duties.
Furthermore, the Europe Agreements state that if no satisfactory solution is reached within 30 days of the matter being referred to an Association Council, the importing party may adopt the appropriate measures.
Since no solution was found within the required time, the Commission was entitled to take measures, as appropriate; this it did on 31 May 1997.
The actual decision to impose provisional duties was not taken until 21 May, only shortly before the statutory deadline expired.
Verification visits, with regard to both investigations, were carried out at the following companies: Community producers - Voest Alpine, Kindberg, Austria, - Vallourec Industries, Boulogne-Billancourt, France, - Benteler AG, Paderborn, Germany, - Mannesmannröhren-Werke AG, Mülheim an der Ruhr, Germany, - Dalmine S.p.A., Dalmine, Italy, - Productos Tubulares S.A., Valle de Trapaga, Spain, - Tubos Reunidos S.A., Amurrio, Spain, - Ovako Steel AB Tube Division, Hofors, Sweden, - ESW Röhrenwerke GmbH, Eschweiler, Germany, - Rohrwerk Neue Maxhütte GmbH, Sulzbach-Rosenberg, Germany.
Importers not related to exporters - Jannone ARM S.p.A., Naples, Italy, - Geminvest S.R.L., Limbiate, Italy, - Starval, Marly La Ville, France, - Voest Alpine Stahlhandel AG, Linz, Austria.
Importers related to the Slovak producer: - Pipex International AG, Nidau, Switzerland, - Pipex Italia S.p.A., Milan, Italy (a subsidiary of the above).
Exporters in the Czech Republic - Vítkovice a.s.
and Vítkovice Export a.s., Ostrava, - Nová Hut a.s., Ostrava, - Válcovny trub Dioss and Dioss Trading, Chomutov a.s., - Ferromet Long Products Ltd, Prague (trading company related to Nová Hut), - Incos s.r.o., Prague (unrelated trading company).
Exporters in Romania - Artrom SA, - Silcotub SA, - Petrotub SA, - Republica SA, - Intertube Ltd., Bucharest (trader related to SC Republica SA), - SC Metalexportimport SA, Bucharest (unrelated exporter/trader), - Sota Company, Bucharest (unrelated exporter/trader).
Exporters in the Slovak Republic - OZeleziarne Podbrezová a.s., Podbrezová.
Exporters subject to the review investigation Exporter in Hungary - Csepel Tubes Co.
Exporters in Poland - Huta Andrzej SA, Zawadzkie, - Huta Batory SA, Chorzów, - Stalexport SA (related trader), Katowice.
In the course of the investigation, the Croatian exporter informed the Commission that the company had changed its name to Zeljezara Sisak - Sisak Tubemills Ltd.
The Commission concluded that the change in name in no way affected the findings established in the investigation. (9) For both investigations, dumping was examined for the period from 1 September 1995 to 31 August 1996, 'the investigation period`.
Product concerned (11) The product subject to both investigations is: (a) seamless pipes, of iron or non-alloy steel, of a kind used for oil or gas pipelines, of an external diameter not exceeding 406,4 mm; (b) seamless tubes of circular cross-section, of iron or non-alloy steel, cold-drawn or cold-rolled, other than precision tubes; and (c) other tubes of circular cross-section, of iron or non-alloy steel, other than threaded or threadable, of an external diameter not exceeding 406,4 mm currently classifiable under CN codes 7304 10 10, 7304 10 30, 7304 31 99, 7304 39 91 and 7304 39 93.
In line with the position adopted by the Council in Regulation (EEC) No 1189/93, and as confirmed in recital (10) of the provisional Regulation, all seamless pipes and tubes falling within the abovementioned CN codes are considered as one product (hereinafter referred to as the 'product concerned`) for the purpose of both the new investigation and the review investigation. 2.
Like product (12) All seamless pipes and tubes subject to both investigations were found to be alike in their essential physical and technical characteristics and in their end uses, irrespective of whether they are manufactured in the Community or in the countries subject to the investigations.
There is a high degree of interchangeability, and consequently of competition, between all imported products subject to both investigations and those manufactured by the Community producers.
DUMPING ANTI-DUMPING INVESTIGATION 1.
The reasons which led the Commission to consider one of the Czech companies as not cooperating with the investigation are set out in recital 14 of the provisional Regulation.
In the circumstances, the Commission had no choice other than to reject the reply and to apply Article 18 of the basic Regulation, not least because to have acted otherwise would have been to discriminate against other, fully cooperating, companies in the investigation.
The same producer objected to the Commission's use, in constructing normal value for certain groups, of a profit margin achieved on profitable domestic sales in other product groups.
With regard to the first point, where the volume of domestic sales below unit cost represents more than 20 % of sales, normal value is based on the profitable sales only, in accordance with the third subparagraph of Article 2 (4) of the basic Regulation.
With regard to the second point, the Commission acted in accordance with Article 2 (6) of the basic Regulation by applying the profit margin on sales 'in the ordinary course of trade, of the like product, by the exporter or producer under investigation`.
In that Regulation, the Commission stated that its approach was justified by the need to reflect the full degree of dumping being practised and because there was a pattern of export prices which differed significantly between Member States and between time periods.
The Commission has reviewed its calculations and concluded that the variations in export prices between countries did not display a sufficiently clear pattern.
However, the Commission stands by its finding that there was a pattern of export prices between time periods which led to a significant increase in dumping (constituting a clear pattern) after the expiry of quantitative restrictions on 31 December 1995, and the approach adopted in the provisional Regulation is therefore confirmed.
For this reason it was concluded that different producers in the exporting country must nevertheless be treated as one single entity for the purposes of this proceeding, where control of all those companies lies in the hands of the same shareholder. (18) On the basis of the Commission's provisional findings, described in recitals (14)-(23) of the provisional Regulation, and taking into account the adjustment described at recital (15) above, the definitive dumping margins expressed as a percentage of the CIF free Community frontier value of imports established for the two cooperating companies are: %gt%TABLE%gt% The calculation of the residual dumping margin was revised.
On this basis, the residual dumping margin expressed as a percentage of the CIF free Community frontier value of imports established for the two cooperating companies is now 28,6 %. 2.
Romania (a) Normal value (19) One company claimed that cost provisions included in the SG%amp% A costs of the company should be removed in view of the fact that unused provisions were cancelled at the end of the year.
It was argued that with regard to such selling costs, included in the calculation of normal value by the Commission, the company had in fact been reimbursed by its customers.
The Commission, in view of Article 2 (4) of the basic Regulation, considered that sales made at a loss have to be excluded from the establishment of normal value where such sales constitute more than 20 % of all domestic sales.
The claim by this company could therefore not be accepted, given the terms of the basic Regulation and the institutions' consistent practice in the establishment of normal value.
Two companies argued that in order to respect the Europe Agreement, the Commission should in establishing normal values always choose the method most favourable to the companies, citing Article 34 (2) of the Agreement.
This argument was rejected, on the grounds that Article 34 (2) of the Agreement refers only to the choice of measures to be imposed by the Commission once dumping, injury, causality and Community interest have been established, and not to the actual calculation methodologies used in the determination.
One company claimed only at a very late stage in the proceeding (at the hearing for comments on provisional disclosure) that sales from stock should be excluded from the calculation of normal value as not possessing quality certificates and therefore not constituting the like product, and that all sales made using compensation as means of payment should likewise be excluded as not being in the ordinary course of trade.
In addition, during the course of the investigation, it was found that sales made using compensation were indeed made in the ordinary course of trade.
The investigation showed that such costs were not a factor taken into account in the determination of prices charged.
This claim was rejected after the methodology used for all Romanian companies was reconsidered and it was found that: - for one company, there was no difference in dumping margin between both methods as all export transactions were made at dumped prices; - for three companies, a pattern of export prices which differed significantly by destination or time period was found.
In view of the above, and in accordance with Article 2 (11) of the basic Regulation, the method comparing the weighted average normal value by time period to individual adjusted export prices on a transaction-by-transaction basis was retained for the purposes of the definitive determination.
For the reasons set out in recital (17), this request could not be accepted.
The Commission has, in accordance with Article 20 (1) of the basic Regulation, explained in detail to each company the essential facts and considerations on which it calculated that company's individual dumping margin and furthermore explained the methodology used to establish the single dumping margin.
In addition, it was argued, citing Article 34 (2) of the Europe Agreement, that the Commission should have used its discretion to adopt a method which 'least disturb[s] the functioning of [that] Agreement`.
It also claimed that the Commission had misinterpreted the SG%amp% A figures submitted by the company, and that the effect of this had been to increase its SG%amp% A rate and consequently the dumping margin.
The Commission based the margin of 4 % on the average of the profit margins achieved by the four unrelated importers listed at recital (6) (c) of the provisional Regulation.
However, it has reviewed the figures and concluded that, for the purposes of the definitive determination, an adjusted figure of 3,8 % should be applied.
Although it was objected that two of the four importers were in fact related to Community producers, the Commission satisfied itself that the profit margins found for these companies reflected the profit on their sales to independent customers in the Community.
Whilst the Commission stands by its reasoning set out in the said recital (34), the modifications it has since made to the figures used to calculate the dumping margin have resulted in the difference between the two methods no longer being of such a magnitude as to justify its original approach.
The provisional findings have been amended accordingly. (28) On the basis of the Commission's previous findings, described in recitals (31)-(35) of the provisional Regulation, and taking into account the changes referred to above, the dumping margin expressed as a percentage of the CIF free Community frontier value of imports established for the cooperating producer is: %gt%TABLE%gt% The residual dumping margin is set at the same level. 4.
The reasons for the Commission's decision are set out in recital (36) of the provisional Regulation.
Some companies submitted further information subsequent to the Commission informing them of its decision to apply Article 18 of the basic Regulation, and some continued to submit new or revamped information even after the publication of the provisional Regulation.
REVIEW INVESTIGATION 1.
In some cases, therefore, the groups contained products classified under different CN codes.
Hungary (a) Normal value (32) During the investigation period, the sole Hungarian producer/exporter sold four product groups in the European Community.
Groups 1, 2 and 3 fell entirely under CN code 7304 39 91, whereas group 4 included a mix of models partly falling under CN code 7304 39 91, and partly under CN code 7304 39 93.
Taking into account that Eurostat statistics showed considerable imported quantities falling under CN code 7304 39 93 for the investigation period, and that only one Hungarian producer/exporter had sold the product concerned to the Community during the same period, the Commission considered product group 4 as falling entirely under CN code 7304 39 93.
The 5 % global representativity test was then performed by comparing the quantities sold domestically with Eurostat import statistics from Hungary, which the Commission selected as an independent source of information, in accordance with Article 18 (5) of the basic Regulation.
On this basis it was determined that in all cases the domestic sales could be considered representative for the establishment of normal value, both globally and at product group level, in accordance with Article 2 (2) of the basic Regulation.
For groups 2 and 3, profitable sales constituted less than 10 % of the domestic sales of these product groups.
Therefore, for these groups, normal value had to be constructed in accordance with Article 2 (3) of the basic Regulation.
Accordingly, for these two groups, normal values were established on the basis of profitable sales only, in accordance with Article 2 (4) of the basic Regulation.
As the four product groups defined by the company corresponded to CN codes 7304 39 91 and 7304 39 93, the Commission decided to determine one normal value per CN code.
Therefore, the arithmetical average of the normal values calculated for the three corresponding product groups was taken into account in order to establish normal value for CN code 7304 39 91.
As explained above, the Commission considered CN code 7304 39 93 as corresponding to product group 4.
Further to the verification visit, the company was informed in writing that, due to the substantial anomalies found on the spot and the impossibility of properly establishing the real export figures, it was impossible to use the information submitted for the determination of the export price to the Community and that findings concerning the export price would have to be based on the facts available in accordance with Article 18 of the basic Regulation.
The adjustments were made, in accordance with Article 2 (10) of the basic Regulation, in respect of transport, insurance, handling and ancillary costs and credit costs.
Discounts, rebates and quantities The company requested an adjustment of 4 % for differences in volumes bought by domestic and Community customers in accordance with Article 2 (10) (c) of the basic Regulation, claiming that lower prices were paid for larger orders.
Level of trade The company claimed an allowance of 12 % for differences in distribution channels between the Community and the domestic markets in accordance with Article 2 (10) (d) of the basic Regulation.
It was alleged that all Community customers were independent traders, whereas 49 % of domestic customers were end-users.
This figure, reported in the table describing the distribution channels in the domestic sales section of the questionnaire, was not consistent with the data contained in the domestic customer list, where all domestic customers were listed as 'independent traders`, a situation equivalent to that prevailing on the Community market.
This claim could, therefore, not be taken into account.
Currency conversion As far as the conversion of export price is concerned, the exporter argued that monthly exchange rates should have been used, rather than a yearly rate.
Expressed as a percentage of the CIF free at Community frontier value of imports, the dumping margin for the sole Hungarian producer/exporter is: %gt%TABLE%gt% Since the sole known producer accounted for almost all Hungarian exports of the product concerned to the Community, the residual dumping margin was set at the same level. 3.
It was therefore concluded that these three companies had failed to provide, within the time limits set, the information deemed necessary to the investigation and the companies were informed of the Commission's intention to apply Article 18 (1) of the basic Regulation and to base its findings on the facts available.
The verification also showed that the company had failed to report in its reply its sales to the Community during the investigation period effected via a related company.
During the investigation period, the single cooperating producer/exporter sold six product groups on both the domestic market and in the Community.
The 5 % test was then performed on a product group basis, from which it resulted that all six product groups were sold in sufficient quantities on the domestic market, and could thus be considered representative for the determination of normal value, in accordance with Article 2 (2) of the basic Regulation.
The profitability test showed that of six product groups, the domestic prices paid in the ordinary course of trade could be used as a basis for normal value for five of them, in accordance with Article 2 (4) of the basic Regulation.
Non-cooperating parties For the four non-cooperating parties, in accordance with Article 18 (6) of the basic Regulation, normal value was determined on the basis of the cooperating producer's product group which corresponded to the highest normal value, since any other choice would have rewarded non-cooperation.
Expressed as a percentage of the total CIF Community frontier value of imports, the dumping margin for the sole cooperating producer is: %gt%TABLE%gt% For non-cooperating parties a residual dumping margin was calculated by comparing the normal value as established in the last paragraph of recital (37) with the export price as determined in the last paragraph of recital (38).
The residual margin, expressed as a percentage of the CIF Community frontier value of imports is 33,2 %. 4.
COMMUNITY INDUSTRY (42) The same Community producers cooperated in the two investigations (see recital (8)).
In addition, the investigation carried out by the Commission has shown that none of the Community producers imported the products concerned and that certain importers, related to such Community producers, imported small quantities of the products concerned during the investigation period.
In any event, the examination of the facts revealed that the volume of these imports accounted for less than 3 % of the total sales volume of these products on the Community market for each of the Community producers.
It is, therefore, considered that such a low level of imports could not have led to any injury to the Community producers and consequently there are no grounds for excluding these producers.
Consequently the producers mentioned in recital (8) will be referred to hereinafter as the 'Community industry` within the meaning of Article 4 (1) of the basic Regulation.
Preliminary remark (44) It should be mentioned that the anti-dumping measures presently in force in respect of Hungary, Poland and the Republic of Croatia are undertakings, combining quantitative ceilings and certain pricing commitments, with residual ad valorem duties.
Consumption (46) In recital (48) of the provisional Regulation, it was stated that Community consumption in tonnes per month amounted to 89 900 tonnes in 1992, 69 700 in 1993, 84 070 in 1994, 92 730 in 1995 and 92 130 during the investigation period.
The fact that imports of the product concerned originating in the Czech Republic and the Slovak, Republic were subject to a tariff-quota system applying until 31 December 1995 does not alter the conclusion that these imports fulfil the criteria laid down in Article 3 (4) of the basic Regulation.
It should be noted, in any case, that, after the expiry of this system, the market shares of the imports concerned increased from 6,7 % in 1995 to 9,6 % during the first eight months of 1996 for Czech imports and from 2,1 % to 3,4 % over the same period for Slovak imports.
For all the above reasons, it is concluded that the conclusions reached in recital (49) of the provisional Regulation should be maintained. (50) Taking into account the two simultaneous investigations, it was also examined whether effects of imports from Hungary, Poland and Croatia should be assessed cumulatively with those of the new investigation. (51) With regard to imports from Croatia, it was established that its share held in the Community market declined from 1,8 % in 1992 to 0,7 % in the investigation period.
In the light of the fact that imports from Croatia are subject to anti-dumping measures, this conclusion is reached also taking into account the findings in recital (70) below on the absence of likelihood of recurrence of injury. (52) With respect to imports from Hungary and Poland, it was found that, as with the imports of the new investigation, quantities imported and dumping margins were significant.
It has been claimed that imports originating in Hungary are negligible and should therefore be disregarded for cumulation purposes in accordance with Article 3 (4) of the basic Regulation.
In addition, for both investigations, the conditions of competition found between the imported products and between the imported products and the Community products were similar, in particular, because all the products were considered as like products and were sold at prices substantially undercutting those of the Community industry (i.e.
Price comparison was made on the basis of sales to the first independent customer in the Community.
Production of the Community industry fell from 1 136 640 tonnes in 1992 to 996 036 tonnes in 1995 and to 938 184 tonnes during the investigation period.
Between 1992 and 1994, these losses averaged 8 %.
There followed an improvement in return on sales in 1995 (-2,1 %), and in the investigation period without reaching break-even.
Profitability percentage levels were as follows: %gt%TABLE%gt% This reduction in losses was to a considerable extent possible because of the anti-dumping measures in force in this sector.
Final conclusion on injury (62) The examination of the economic performance of the Community industry during the period under consideration showed that, between 1992 and August 1996, there was a decline in production, sales volume and market share as well as a reduction in employment, despite considerable restructuring efforts intended to reduce costs of production.
It is therefore concluded that during the period under consideration, the Community industry has suffered material injury within the meaning of Article 3 of the basic Regulation, in the form of decreased sales and loss of market share, reduced employment and financial losses.
Effect of other factors (a) Other imports (64) Certain exporters claimed that imports from other countries, for example Argentina, had been made in quantities and at prices that were injurious to the Community industry.
The examination revealed that imports from other third countries, not covered by the two investigations, increased their market share from 4,3 % in 1992 to 6,5 % in 1995 and to 7,7 % during the investigation period.
On this basis, it is evident that the deterioration of the market in 1993 had a negative effect on the situation of the Community industry.
However, save in the exceptional situation of 1993, consumption remained generally stable during the other years of the period considered (1992, and 1994 to the investigation period).
The general economic situation cannot, therefore, be considered as a factor continuously responsible for the precarious situation still faced by the Community industry.
However, given the volume and market share of the dumped imports from the countries concerned and the margin of undercutting established, it is clear that the dumped imports in isolation played a significant role in the material injury suffered by the Community industry. 3.
Imports originating in Croatia, considered separately, cannot be considered to have caused material injury to the Community industry.
LIKELIHOOD OF CONTINUATION OR RECURRENCE OF INJURY - CROATIA (68) The investigation with regard to Hungary, Poland and the Republic of Croatia was an interim review which was initiated in parallel with the new investigation in order to examine globally the situation with regard to all imports of seamless pipes and tubes into the Community.
There was therefore no need to further examine whether there is a likelihood of continuation or recurrence of material injury if the existing anti-dumping measures concerning imports originating in Hungary and Poland were removed or altered.
However, in the case of imports of Croatian origin, which were not cumulated with other imports under investigation, such an examination must be made. (69) Following the imposition of anti-dumping measures, imports from Croatia fell sharply from 19 201 tonnes in 1992 to 8 077 tonnes during the investigation period, representing a decline in market share from 1,8 % to 0,7 % as stated in recital 51.
As a result, only one quarter, approximately 35 000 tonnes per year of the theoretical production capacity was operational.
The output of the product concerned dropped from around 34 000 in 1992 to 10 515 tonnes during the investigation period, thus reducing capacity utilisation from 97 % to 37 %.
Domestic sales declined from 8 000 tonnes to 2 100 tonnes over the same period, while exports to non-Community countries were negligible.
Conclusion (70) With regard to Croatia, it is considered that recurrence of injury, should the existing anti-dumping measures be repealed, is unlikely and that, in the circumstances as established, these measures are therefore no longer necessary.
COMMUNITY INTEREST 1.
On the basis of the additional information obtained from these replies, and taking into account the absence of comment on the findings contained in the provisional Regulation, the following conclusion can be reached. 2.
As noted in recital (73) of the provisional Regulation, the sector in question is dependent on a reasonable capacity utilization rate.
Impact of measures on importers/traders (76) In recital (74) of the provisional Regulation, the Commission concluded that, because Community importers are known in general to handle all steel products and only a small percentage of their turnover consists of the seamless tubes in question, the measures can be expected to have no more than a minimal effect on their overall situation, given the wide diversity of the products they trade.
Having received no further comments in this respect, it is reasonable to conclude that anti-dumping measures will indeed have only a minimal effect, if any, on the situation of importers/traders of the product concerned. 4.
Furthermore, it should be noted that at least 85 % of the dumped imports from the countries subject to both the new anti-dumping investigation and the interim review are sold to large traders, who appear to have been taking advantage of the dumped prices to improve profit margins.
DEFINITIVE DUTY 1.
A profit margin of 5 % was regarded as an appropriate minimum, taking into account the need for long term investment and the return which the Community industry could reasonably expect in the absence of injurious dumping.
The amounts resulting from this calculation were expressed as a percentage of the weighted average, free-at-Community-frontiers, value of the imported goods.
Countries under the review investigation (a) Hungary and Poland (82) As a result of the findings concerning Hungary and Poland, confirming that, despite the existing measures, dumping has caused injury, and considering that it is in the Community's interest that anti-dumping measures with regard to these two countries be maintained, a determination of a revised duty has been made.
The injury margins required to remove the injury caused by imports of Hungarian and Polish origin and calculated on the basis of the same methodology as that used for the countries under the new investigation, as explained above in recital (80), are: %gt%TABLE%gt% In accordance with Article 9 (4) of the basic Regulation, the rates of duty should be based on the lower of either the injury elimination margin or the dumping margin established.
The dumping margins with regard to the Polish producer Huta Batory and the sole Hungarian producer being below the injury margin found, the duty should be based on this lower level.
For the other Polish producers, the duty is limited to the injury margin established. (83) On this basis, the existing anti-dumping duties which amount to 10,8 % for Poland and 21,7 % for Hungary should be replaced by the following duties: %gt%TABLE%gt% (b) Republic of Croatia (84) Based on the conclusions reached in recital (51) and taking into account that there is no clearly foreseeable threat of increasing import volumes from the Republic of Croatia (see recital (69)) and that, under these circumstances, the recurrence of material injury is not imminent, no determination of a definitive duty has been made in respect of the Republic of Croatia.
These measures should be in the form of ad valorem duties, the rates of which have been fixed individually for cooperating companies.
Non-cooperating companies, on the other hand, should be subject to the residual duties. (86) However, as regards Hungary, Poland, the Czech Republic, Romania and the Slovak Republic, it has been found appropriate, taking into account the specific history of previous anti-dumping proceedings concerning this product, in which those countries were subject either to quantitative restrictions or tariff quotas, to accept price undertakings which have been offered up to a certain quantity threshold on a company by company basis.
In cases of doubt, the Commission should make a determination as to the certificate's validity, and take measures as appropriate. (87) As regards Russia, the Commission has examined an offer of a joint undertaking from three of the six companies which made themselves known during the investigation, and has considered the possibility of these Russian producers benefiting from a similar form of undertaking to that of the producers in the associated countries.
The Council has therefore decided, in accordance with Article 10 (2) of the basic Regulation, that the amounts secured by way of the provisional duty imposed pursuant to Commission Regulation (EC) No 981/97 on imports of the product concerned originating in Russia, the Czech Republic, Romania and the Slovak Republic should be released.
Definitive anti-dumping duties are hereby imposed on the following imports originating in Hungary, Poland, Russia, the Czech Republic, Romania and the Slovak Republic. (a) seamless pipes, of iron or non-alloy steel, of a kind used for oil and gas pipelines, of an external diameter not exceeding 406,4 mm (currently falling within CN codes 7304 10 10 and 7304 10 30); (b) seamless tubes of circular cross-section, of iron or non-alloy steel, cold-drawn or cold-rolled, other than precision tubes (currently falling within CN code 7304 31 99); (c) other tubes of circular cross-section, of iron or non-alloy steel, other than threaded or threadable, of an external diameter not exceeding 406,4 mm (currently falling within CN codes 7304 39 91 and 7304 39 93). 2.
The rate of definitive anti-dumping duties applicable to the net free-at-Community-frontier prices before duty, shall be as follows: %gt%TABLE%gt% 3.
The production certificate shall conform with the requirements for such certificates set out in the undertaking accepted by the Commission, the essential elements of which are listed in the Annex. 3.
The production certificate referred to in paragraph 2 must be presented within three months of its date of issue.
Imports accompanied by a production certificate shall be declared under the following Taric additional codes: %gt%TABLE%gt% Article 3 Member States' reports to the Commission pursuant to Article 14 (6) of Regulation (EC) No 384/96, shall indicate for each release for free circulation, the year and month of import, the CN, Taric and Taric additional codes, the type of measure, the country of origin, the quantity, the value, the anti-dumping duty, the Member State of import and, where appropriate, the serial number of the production certificate.
Article 5 The anti-dumping proceeding against imports of the product concerned originating in Croatia is hereby terminated.
Article 7 This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
Done at Brussels, 17 November 1997.
JUNCKER (1) OJ L 56, 6. 3. 1996, p. 1.
Regulation as amended by Regulation (EC) No 2331/96 (OJ L 317, 6. 12. 1996, p. 1.) (2) OJ L 120, 15. 5. 1993, p. 34. (3) OJ L 120, 15. 5. 1993, p. 42. (4) OJ C 253, 31. 8. 1996, p. 25. (5) OJ C 253, 31. 8. 1996, p. 26. (6) OJ L 141, 31. 5. 1997, p. 36. (7) See page 63 of this Official Journal.
