Article 2 The implementation of the Accession Partnership shall be examined in the Europe Agreement bodies and by the appropriate Council bodies to which the Commission shall report regularly.
Article 3 This Decision shall take effect on the third day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Done at Brussels, 6 December 1999.
HALONEN (1) OJ L 85, 20.3.1998, p. 1.
ANNEX ROMANIA: 1999 ACCESSION PARTNERSHIP 1.
OBJECTIVES The purpose of the Accession Partnership is to set out in a single framework the priority areas for further work identified in the Commission's 1999 Regular Report on the progress made by Romania towards membership of the European Union, the financial means available to help Romania implement these priorities and the conditions which will apply to that assistance.
Agriculture: - continue the alignment of veterinary and phytosanitary legislation and upgrade inspection arrangements, in particular at the future external borders of the European Union, - continue the establishment of a nationwide animal identification system, - adopt a law on control of pesticides in agriculture and start the establishment of a control system for residual pesticides in agricultural products, - establish a vineyard register and strengthen the management and control systems in the wine sector.
Environment: - draw up detailed directive specific approximation and implementation programmes, - transpose access to information legislation, nature protection, and radiation protection legislation, - prepare framework laws for air, waste, water quality industrial pollution (IPPC, large combustion plants, Seveso II), - strengthen the environmental administration both at national and regional levels, - develop a plan for financing investments (directive specific), based on estimations of costs of alignment and realistic sources of public and private finance year-by-year, - complete transposition and enforce the environmental impact assessment directive.
Justice and home affairs: - continue progressive alignment of visa legislation and practice with that of the European Union, - adopt and apply the international instruments related to the fight against drug trafficking, in particular the Agreement on illicit traffic by sea, implementing Article 17 of the United Nations Convention against illicit trafficking in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, - reinforce the independence of the judiciary, introduce objective criteria for recruitment and career development, - continue the fight against trafficking in women and children.
Under these national allocations, Romania can also fund part of its participation in Community programmes including in the Fifth Research and Technological Development Framework Programme (OJ L 26, 1.2.1999, p. 1).
Since 1998 the Commission has worked with the European Investment Bank and international financial institutions, in particular the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the World Bank, with a view to facilitating the co-financing of projects relating to pre-accession priorities. 5.
Failure to respect these general conditions could lead to a decision by the Council on the suspension of financial assistance on the basis of Article 4 of Regulation (EC) No 622/98. 6.
The Accession Partnership will continue to be amended as necessary in accordance with Article 2 of Regulation (EC) No 622/98. (1) Phare = Action plan for coordinated aid to Poland and Hungary. (2) ISPA = Instrument for Structural Policies for Pre-Accession. (3) Sapard = Special Accession Programme for Agriculture and Rural Development.
