Article 2 Member States shall bring into force the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with this Directive not later than 30 November 1997.
Article 3 This Directive shall enter into force on the 20th day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Article 4 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 21 October 1996.
For the Commission Franz FISCHLER Member of the Commission (1) OJ No L 230, 19. 8. 1991, p. 1. (2) OJ No L 214, 23. 8. 1996, p. 18.
ANNEX I Section 6 of Part A of Annex II to Directive 91/414/EEC is replaced by the following: '6.
Where the degradation during storage is significant (more than 30 %) it may be necessary to change the storage conditions or not to store the samples prior to analysis and repeat and studies where the unsatisfactory storage conditions were used.
Effects of industrial processing and/or household preparations Circumstances in which required The decision as to whether it is necessary to carry out processing studies will depend on: - the importance of a processed product in the human or animal diet, - the level of residue in the plant or plant product to be processed, - the physico-chemical properties of the active substance or relevant metabolites, and - the possibility that degradation products of toxicological significance may be found after processing of the plant or plant product.
Processing studies are not normally necessary if no significant or no analytically determinable residues occur in the plant or plant product which would be processed, or if the total theoretical maximum daily intake (TMDI) is less than 10 % of the ADI.
Circumstances in which required Where data generated in accordance with Annex II, Section 7, point 7.1 or Annex III, Section 9, point 9.1, shows that significant residues (%gt% 10 % of the applied active substance as a total of unchanged active substance and its relevant metabolites or degradation products) remain in soil or in plant materials, such as straw or organic material up to sowing or planting time of possible succeeding crops, and which could lead to residues above the limit of determination in succeeding crops at harvest, consideration should be given to the residue situation.
Test conditions The same provisions as provided under the corresponding paragraphs of Annex II, Section 6, points 6.1 and 6.2 apply. 8.2.
This might be the case for special formulations, for special application methods or for crops for which data were not submitted in the framework of inclusion of the active substance in Annex I or were not necessary for amending the conditions of its inclusion in Annex I.
Test conditions The same provisions as provided under the corresponding paragraphs of Annex II, Section 6, point 6.4 apply. 8.4.
Effects of industrial processing and/or household preparations Aim of the tests The main objectives of these studies are: - to establish whether or not breakdown or reaction products arise from residues in the raw products during processing which may require a separate risk assessment, - to determine the quantitative distribution of residues in the various intermediate and end products, and to estimate transfer factors, - to enable a more realistic estimate to be made of dietary intake of residues.
Test conditions The same provisions as provided under the corresponding paragraphs of Annex II, Section 6, point 6.5 apply. 8.5.
Test conditions The same provisions as provided under the corresponding paragraphs of Annex II, Section 6, point 6.6 apply. 8.6.
If the metabolism studies submitted in accordance with the provisions of point 8.1 indicate that the residue definition should be changed taking into account the actual residue definition and the necessary judgement as outlined under the corresponding paragraph of Annex II, Section 6, point 6.7, a re-evaluation of the active substance may be necessary. 8.7.
