Council Regulation (EC) No 312/2002 of 18 February 2002 imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty on imports of certain magnetic disks (3,5″ microdisks) originating in Japan and the People's Republic of China and terminating the proceeding in respect of imports of 3,5″ microdisks originating in Taiwan Council Regulation (EC) No 312/2002 of 18 February 2002 imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty on imports of certain magnetic disks (3,5%quot% microdisks) originating in Japan and the People's Republic of China and terminating the proceeding in respect of imports of 3,5%quot% microdisks originating in Taiwan THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, Having regard to Council Regulation (EC) No 384/96 of 22 December 1995 on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the European Community(1), and in particular Article 11(2) thereof, Having regard to the proposal submitted by the Commission after consulting the Advisory Committee, Whereas: A.
Previous investigations involving Japan, Taiwan and the People's Republic of China (1) By Regulation (EEC) No 2861/93(2), the Council imposed definitive anti-dumping measures on imports into the Community of certain magnetic disks (%quot%3,5%quot% microdisks%quot%) originating in Japan, Taiwan and the People's Republic of China. 2.
Related investigations (2) Definitive anti-dumping duties have also been imposed on imports of 3,5%quot% microdisks originating in Hong Kong and the Republic of Korea(3) and Indonesia(4).
The measures concerning Hong Kong and the Republic of Korea are subject to a review which was initiated in September 1999(5). (3) The measures concerning Malaysia, Mexico and the United States of America expired on 14 April 2001(6). 3.
Request for review (4) Following the publication of the notice of impending expiry of the anti-dumping measures applicable to imports of 3,5%quot% microdisks originating in Japan, Taiwan and the People's Republic of China(7), the Commission received in July 1998, a request to review these measures pursuant to Article 11(2) of Council Regulation (EC) No 384/96 (the %quot%basic Regulation%quot%).
Investigation (6) The Commission officially advised the five Community producers supporting the request, the exporting producers and the importers known to be concerned as well as the representatives of the exporting countries of the initiation of the investigation, and gave the parties concerned the opportunity to make their views known in writing and to request a hearing. (7) The Commission sent questionnaires to the parties known to be concerned and received full replies from two Community producers, a Taiwanese exporting producer and a Chinese producer, its related exporter in Hong Kong and its related importer in the UK. (8) The Commission also sent questionnaires to a large number of economic operators understood to be or to represent purchasers and importers of 3,5%quot% microdisks in the Community. (9) The Commission sought and verified all information deemed necessary for the purposes of determining whether there was a likelihood of a continuation or recurrence of dumping and injury and whether maintaining the measures would not be against the Community interest.
Community producers Computer Support Italcard s.r.l., Milan, Italy; Sentinel N.V., Bodem, Belgium. (10) The investigation of the likelihood of continuation and recurrence of dumping covered the period from 1 October 1997 to 30 September 1998 (the %quot%investigation period%quot%).
The examination of the situation of the Community 3,5%quot% microdisks market covered the period from 1994 up to the end of the investigation period (the %quot%analysis period%quot%). (11) All parties concerned were informed of the essential facts and considerations on the basis of which it was intended to recommend the maintenance of the existing measures for Japan and the People's Republic of China and the termination of the proceeding in respect of Taiwan.
Product under consideration (12) The product under consideration (3,5%quot% microdisks) is used to record and store encoded digital computer information falling within CN code ex 8523 20 90, with the exception of 3,5%quot% microdisks based on optically continuous servo tracking technology or magnetic sector servo tracking technology with a storage capacity of 120 MB or more. (13) The 3,5%quot% microdisks concerned were available in various types, depending on various factors, including, amongst others, their storage capacity, formatting, degree of certification (a measure used to test the performance of the microdisk) and on the way in which they were marketed, i.e.
LIKELIHOOD OF A CONTINUATION OF DUMPING 1.
Therefore, and in order not to reward non-cooperation, findings concerning Japan were made on the basis of facts available in accordance with Article 18 of the basic Regulation, in this case the evidence provided by the applicant.
On this basis, and without any deduction for anti-dumping duties, the margin of dumping was between 5 % and 10 %. 3.
However, the company declined to do so. (20) As no alternative analogue country was proposed, the Commission decided to use Taiwan as the basis for establishing normal value for the People's Republic of China.
For the one type of 3,5%quot% microdisk, however, for which no comparable domestic sales in the analogue country could be found, normal value had to be constructed in accordance with Article 2(3) of the basic Regulation.
Since, in these circumstances, the use of the average-to-average method for the calculation of the dumping margin did not reflect the full degree of dumping, it was considered appropriate that weighted average normal values per type be compared to prices of all individual export transactions to the Community, in accordance with Article 2(11) of the basic Regulation. (25) The comparison showed the existence of a margin of dumping of between 5 % and 10 %, the dumping margin being equal to the amount by which the normal value exceeded the export price, expressed as a percentage of the cif import price at the Community border, duty unpaid. 5.
LIKELIHOOD OF RECURRENCE OF DUMPING 1.
Imports from Japan and the People's Republic of China (27) Imports from Japan and the People's Republic of China during the period covered by the original investigation amounted to around 130 million units and collectively accounted for around 30 % of the apparent Community consumption.
Imports originating in Japan accounted for approximately three-quarters of the total imports from these two countries. (28) Imports from both countries fell sharply after the imposition of the measures in 1993, so that already in 1995 they amounted collectively to around 10 million units.
It was therefore assumed that these two companies may have unused production capacity to exploit. (30) For the sole cooperating Chinese exporting producer, production decreased by almost 50 % between 1995 and the investigation period.
In these circumstances, it was concluded, on the basis of Article 18 of the basic Regulation, that unused production capacity is likely to exist, which could be exploited in the event of the anti-dumping measures being allowed to expire.
On this basis, substantial exports at dumped prices are likely. (34) Since the People's Republic of China has substantial unused production capacity and average export prices to non-EU countries were, during the investigation period, substantially lower than those to the Community market, it could be expected that, should the measures be repealed, a substantial proportion of sales currently made on the domestic market or exported to non-EU countries would be redirected towards the Community market at dumped prices. 5.
Conclusions (38) The investigation showed that exports from Japan and the People's Republic of China are still made at dumped prices.
In addition, they add substantial value in the manufacturing process, their headquarters and centres for research and development are all located in the Community and the 3,5%quot% microdisks that they produce have a Community origin in accordance with the Community's customs code. (45) On the basis of the above, and given that the cooperating Community producers represent a major proportion, in this case more than 75 %, of the Community production, they are therefore considered to constitute the Community industry within the meaning of Article 4(1) and Article 5(4) of the basic Regulation.
The Community microdisk market will therefore remain important. 2.
On this basis, total consumption in the Community fell throughout the period analysed from 1400 million units (1994) to 1300 million units (1995), 1100 million units (1996), 1000 million units (1997), before falling again to 900 million units in the investigation period, which represents a fall of 36 % over the whole period analysed. 3.
As mentioned above, the product concerned is only part of a CN heading and an estimate had to be made based on detailed custom information. (50) The volume of imports from Japan and the People's Republic of China fell throughout the analysis period from 11 million units in 1995 to 2,6 million units in the investigation period.
The total market share of both these imports fell from 0,8 % in 1995 to 0,3 % in the investigation period. %gt%TABLE%gt% (c) Imports declared as having originated in Macao (51) It should be noted that 200 million units were imported into the Community as having originated in Macao in 1995.
However, this trade stopped during 1996 following an investigation by the anti-fraud services of the Commission in which it was proven that these microdisks were either of Chinese or Taiwanese origin.
The comparison showed, on a weighted average basis, that the prices of the imports originating in the People's Republic of China were more than 20 % lower than those of the sales of the Community industry during the investigation period. (54) For Japan, as no exporting producer from Japan cooperated in the present investigation, the only available prices are the Eurostat prices or price quotations provided in the review request.
The level of prices derived from Eurostat appears very high in comparison to imports from the People's Republic of China (0,718 ECU/unit).
Situation of the Community industry (a) Production, capacity and capacity utilisation (55) The production, production capacity and capacity utilisation of the Community industry were as follows: %gt%TABLE%gt% (b) Sales, market shares and prices (56) Sales on the Community market to unrelated customers, market share and prices of the Community industry were as follows: %gt%TABLE%gt% (57) The Community industry's market share rose by 3,7 percentage points between 1994 and 1995 and by a further 2 percentage points between 1995 and 1996.
Wages decreased by 35 %. (62) The above employment levels were falling at a time when the Community industry was increasing its output.
Submissions received from interested parties in the People's Republic of China (67) One cooperating exporting producer in the People's Republic of China claimed that the 3,5%quot% microdisk market can be divided into two market segments, namely %quot%branded%quot% and %quot%bulk%quot%.
In addition, it was stated that the Chinese product was a low quality bulk product which did not compete with the Community production which, according to this interested party, was at the high quality branded level. (70) The claims by this party could not be verified in view of the lack of cooperation.
Conclusions on the situation of the Community industry (71) The overall picture that emerges of the situation of the Community industry from the foregoing is that of an industry still in a weak situation, despite an improved market share and a successful effort at reducing significantly costs of production (which fell 51 % over the period examined).
It was also concluded that there will be a likelihood of recurrence of dumping, should measures expire, since volumes of dumped imports would considerably increase. (73) It was shown at section F that the Community industry was in a vulnerable situation during the investigation period. (74) Should measures expire, dumped imports from Japan and the People's Republic of China are likely to push down the prices of the Community industry which are already depressed. (75) In such conditions, the Community industry, already loss-making, would not be able to compete with high quantities sold at such low prices because firstly, a difference in prices in this market (microdisks are a commodity-like product) leads to immediate substitution in supplies and secondly, the Community industry has already made all the necessary efforts to restructure itself and is already operating at very low costs.
Claim by a Chinese exporting producer (76) A Chinese exporting producer argued that market circumstances were not likely to lead to renewed injurious dumping from the People's Republic of China.
COMMUNITY INTEREST 1.
Therefore the continuation of the anti-dumping measures would clearly be in the interest of the Community component supplier industry. 5.
TERMINATION OF THE PROCEEDING IN RESPECT OF TAIWAN (93) In view of the findings set out above concerning imports originating in Taiwan, the anti-dumping measures currently in force against Taiwan are no longer warranted and the proceeding should be terminated with regards to imports originating in this country.
Article 3 The proceeding concerning imports of 3,5%quot% microdisks originating in Taiwan is hereby terminated.
Article 4 This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Done at Brussels, 18 February 2002.
