Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 of the Council of 14 June 1971 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons and their families moving within the Community REGULATION (EEC) No 1408/71 OF THE COUNCIL of 14 June 1971 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons and their families moving within the Community THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Articles 2, 7 and 51 thereof; Having regard to the proposals from the Commission drawn up after consultation with the Administrative Commission on Social Security for Migrant Workers [1]; [1] OJ No 194, 28.10.1966, p. 3333/66 and OJ No C 95, 21.9.1968, p. 18.
Having regard to the Opinions of the European Parliament [2]; [2] OJ No C 10, 14.2.1968, p. 30 and OJ No C. 135, 14.12.1968, p. 4.
Having regard to the Opinions of the Economic and Social Committee [3]; [3] OJ No 64,5.4.1967,p.1009/67 and OJ No C 21,20.2.1969, p. 18.
This Regulation shall apply to workers who are or have been subject to the legislation of one or more Member States and who are nationals of one of the Member States or who are stateless persons or refugees residing within the territory of one of the Member States, as also to the members of their families and their survivors. 2.
Article 4 Matters covered 1.
Article 7 International provisions not affected by this Regulation 1.
This Regulation shall not affect obligations arising from: (a) any convention adopted by the International Labour Conference which, after ratification by one or more Member States, has entered into force; (b) the European Interim Agreements on Social Security of 11 December 1953 concluded between the Member States of the Council of Europe. 2.
The provisions of Article 6 notwithstanding, the following shall continue to apply: (a) the Agreement of 27 July 1950 concerning social security for Rhine boatmen, revised on 13 February 1961; (b) the European Convention of 9 July 1956 concerning social security for workers in international transport; (c) the social security conventions listed in Annex II.
Article 8 Conclusion of conventions between Member States 1.
Each Member State shall notify, in accordance with Article 96 (1), any convention concluded with another Member State pursuant to paragraph 1.
Article 9 Admission to voluntary or optional continued insurance 1.
Article 10 Waiving of residence clauses - Effect of compulsory insurance on reimbursement of contributions 1.
The preceding subparagraph shall also apply to lump-sum benefits granted in cases of remarriage of a surviving spouse who was entitled to a survivor's pension. 2.
Article 11 Revalorisation of benefits Rules for revalorisation provided by the legislation of a Member State shall apply to benefits due under that legislation by virtue of the provisions of this Regulation.
Article 12 Prevention of overlapping of benefits 1.
However, this provision shall not apply to benefits in respect of invalidity, old age, death (pensions) or occupational disease which are awarded by the institutions of two or more Member States, in accordance with Article 41, Article 43 (2) and (3), Articles 46, 50 and 51 or Article 60 (1) (b). 2.
However, this provision shall not apply when the person concerned receives benefits of the same kind in respect of invalidity, old age, death (pensions) or occupational disease which are awarded by the institutions of two or more Member States in accordance with Articles 46, 50, 51 or Article 60 (1) (b). 3.
An invalidity pension payable under Netherlands legislation shall, in a case where the Netherlands institution is bound under Article 57 (3) (c) or Article 60 (2) (a) to contribute also to the cost of benefits for occupational disease granted under the legislation of another Member State, be reduced by the amount payable to the institution of the other Member State which is responsible for granting the benefits for occupational disease.
TITLE II DETERMINATION OF THE LEGISLATION APPLICABLE Article 13 General rules 1.
Subject to the provisions of Articles 14 to 17: (a) a worker employed in the territory of one Member State shall be subject to the legislation of that State even if he resides in the territory of another Member State or if the registered office or place of business of the undertaking or individual employing him is situated in the territory of another Member State; (b) a worker employed on board a vessel flying the flag of a Member State shall be subject to the legislation of that State; (c) civil servants and persons treated as such shall be subject to the legislation of the Member State to which the administration employing them is subject; (d) a worker called up or recalled for service in the armed forces of a Member State shall retain the status of worker, and shall be subject to the legislation of that State; if entitlement under that legislation is subject to the completion of insurance period before entry into or release from such service, insurance periods completed under the legislation of any other Member State shall be taken into account, to the extent necessary, as if they were insurance periods completed under the legislation of the first State.
Article 14 Special rules 1.
Article 13 (2) (b) shall apply subject to the following exceptions and circumstances: (a) a worker employed by an undertaking to which he is normally attached, either in the territory of a Member State or on board a vessel flying the flag of a Member State, who is posted by that undertaking on board a vessel flying the flag of another Member State to perform work there for that undertaking shall, subject to the conditions provided in paragraph 1 (a), continue to be subject to the legislation of the first Member State; (b) a worker who, while not being habitually employed at sea, is employed in the territorial waters or in a port of a Member State on a vessel flying the flag of another Member State, but is not a member of the crew, shall be subject to the legislation of the first State; (c) a worker employed on board a vessel flying the flag of a Member State and remunerated for such employment by an undertaking or a person whose registered office or place of business is in the territory of another Member State shall be subject to the legislation of the latter State if he is resident in the territory of that State; the undertaking or person paying the remuneration shall be considered as the employer for the purposes of the said legislation. 3.
Article 15 Rules concerning voluntary insurance or optional continued insurance 1.
The provisions of Articles 13 and 14 shall not apply to voluntary insurance or optional continued insurance. 2.
Where application of the legislations of two or more Member States entails overlapping of insurance: - under a compulsory insurance scheme and one or more voluntary or optional continued insurance schemes, the person concerned shall be subject exclusively to the compulsory insurance schemes; - under two or more voluntary or optional continued insurance schemes, the person concerned may join only the voluntary or optional continued insurance scheme for which he has opted. 3.
Article 16 Special rules regarding persons employed by diplomatic missions and consular posts, and auxiliary staff of the European Communties 1.
Article 17 Exceptions to the provisions of Articles 13 to 16 Two or more Member States or the competent authorities of those States may, by common agreement, provide for exceptions to the provisions of Articles 13 to 16 in the interest of certain workers or categories of workers.
The competent institution of a Member State whose legislation makes the acquisition, retention or recovery of the right to benefits conditional upon the completion of insurance periods shall, to the extent necessary, take account of insurance periods completed under the legislation of any other Member State as if they were periods completed under its own legislation. 2.
Section 2 Workers and members of their families Article 19 Residence in a Member State other than the competent State - General rules 1.
A worker residing in the territory of a Member State other than the competent State, who satisfies the conditions of the legislation of the competent State for entitlement to benefits, taking account where appropriate of the provisions of Article 18, shall receive in the State in which he is resident: (a) benefits in kind provided on behalf of the competent institution by the institution of the place of residence in accordance with the legislation administered by that institution as though he were insured with it; (b) cash benefits provided by the competent institution in accordance with the legislation which it administers.
Article 20 Frontier workers and members of their families - Special rules A frontier worker may also obtain benefits in the territory of the competent State.
Members of his family may receive benefits in kind under the same conditions; however, receipt of such benefits shall, except in urgent cases, be conditional upon an agreement between the States concerned or between the competent authorities of those States or, in its absence, on prior authorisation by the competent institution.
Article 21 Stay in or transfer of residence to the competent State 1.
A worker and members of his family referred to in Article 19 who transfer their residence to the territory of the competent State, shall receive benefits in accordance with the legislation of that State, even if they have already received benefits for the same case of sickness or maternity before transferring their residence.
Article 22 Stay outside the competent State - Return to or transfer of residence to another Member State during sickness or maternity - Need to go to another Member State in order to receive appropriate treatment 1.
However, by agreement between the competent institution and the institution of the place of stay or residence, such benefits may be provided by the latter institution on behalf of the former, in accordance with the legislation of the competent State. 2.
Article 23 Calculation of cash benefits 1.
The competent institution of a Member State whose legislation provides that the calculation of cash benefits shall be based on an average wage or salary, shall determine that average wage or salary exclusively by reference to wages or salaries confirmed as having been paid during the periods completed under the said legislation. 2.
The competent institution of a Member State whose legislation provides that the calculation of cash benefits shall be based on a standard wage or salary, shall take account exclusively of the standard wage or salary or, where appropriate, of the average of the standard wages or salaries for the periods completed under the said legislation. 3.
The competent institution of a Member State under whose legislation the amount of cash benefits varies with the number of members of the family, shall also take into account the members of the family of the person concerned who are resident in the territory of another Member State as if they were resident in the territory of the competent State.
Article 24 Substantial benefits in kind 1.
Section 3 Unemployed persons and members of their families Article 25 1.
A totally unemployed person to whom the provisions of Article 71 (1) (a) (ii) or the first sentence of Article 71 (1) (b) (ii) apply shall receive benefits in kind and in cash in accordance with the legislation of the Member State in whose territory he resides, as though he had been subject to that legislation during his last employment, taking account where appropriate of the provisions of Article 18; the cost of such benefits shall be met by the institution of the country of residence. 3.
Section 4 Pension claimants and members of their families Article 26 Right to benefits in kind in cases of cessation of the right to benefits from the institution which was last competent 1.
Section 5 Pensioners and members of their families Article 27 Pensions payable under the legislation of several States where a right to benefits in kind is enjoyed in the country of residence A pensioner who is entitled to draw pensions under the legislation of two or more Member States and who is entitled to benefits in kind under the legislation of the Member State in whose territory he resides, taking account where appropriate of the provisions of Article 18 and Annex V, shall, with the members of his family, receive such benefits from the institution of the place of residence and at the expense of that institution as though he were a pensioner whose pension was payable solely under the legislation of the latter State.
Article 28 Pensions payable under the legislation of one or more States where no right to benefits in kind is enjoyed in the country of residence 1.
A pensioner who is entitled to draw a pension or pensions under the legislation of one or more Member States and who is not entitled to benefits in kind under the legislation of the Member State in whose territory he resides, shall nevertheless receive such benefits for himself and members of his family if, taking account where appropriate of the provisions of Article 18 and Annex V, he would be entitled thereto under the legislation of the Member State, or of at least one of the Member States, competent in respect of pensions if he were resident in the territory of such State.
The benefits shall be provided on behalf of the institution referred to in paragraph 2 by the institution of the place of residence as though the person concerned were a pensioner under the legislation of the State in whose territory he resides and were entitled to benefits in kind. 2.
Members of the family of a pensioner entitled to draw a pension or pensions under the legislation of one or more Member States who reside in the territory of a Member State other than the one in which the pensioner resides shall where he is entitled under the legislation of a Member State to benefits in kind, receive such benefits as though the pensioner were resident in the same territory as them.
Article 30 Substantial benefits in kind The provisions of Article 24 shall apply by analogy to pensioners.
Article 32 Special provisions concerning responsibility for the cost of benefits provided for former frontier workers, members of their families or their survivors The cost of benefits with which a pensioner who is a former frontier worker or the survivor of a frontier worker is provided under Article 27, and the cost of benefits with which members of his family are provided under Article 27 or 31 shall, where the frontier worker was working as such for the three months immediately preceding the date on which the pension became payable on the date of his death, be divided equally between the institution of the pensioner's place of residence and that with which he was last insured.
Article 33 Contributions payable by pensioners The institution responsible for payment of a pension, and belonging to a Member State whose legislation provides for deductions from pensions in respect of contributions payable by a pensioner to cover benefits in kind, shall be authorised to make such deductions from the pension payable by such institution, calculated in accordance with the legislation concerned, to the extent that the cost of the benefits in kind under Articles 27, 28, 31 and 32 are to be borne by an institution of the said Member State.
Article 34 General provision The provisions of Articles 27 to 33 shall not apply to a pensioner or to members of his family who are entitled to benefits in kind under the legislation of a Member State as a result of pursuing a professional or trade activity.
Section 7 Reimbursement between institutions Article 36 1.
The refunds referred to in paragraph 1 shall be determined and made in accordance with the procedure provided for by the implementing regulation referred to in Article 97, either on production of proof of actual expenditure or on the basis of lump-sum payments.
CHAPTER 2 INVALIDITY Section 1 Workers subject only to legislations under which the amount of invalidity benefits is independent of the duration of insurance periods Article 37 General provisions 1.
A worker who has been successively or alternately subject to the legislations of two or more Member States and who has completed insurance periods exclusively under legislations according to which the amount of invalidity benefits is independent of the duration of insurance periods, shall receive benefits in accordance with Article 39.
Article 38 Aggregation of insurance periods 1.
The competent institution of a Member State whose legislation makes the acquisition, retention or recovery of the right to benefit conditional upon the completion of insurance periods shall take account to the extent necessary of insurance periods completed under the legislation of any other Member States, as though they had been completed under its own legislation. 2.
Where the legislation of a Member State makes the granting of certain benefits conditional upon the insurance periods having been completed in an completion of insurance periods shall take account to where appropriate, in a specific employment, insurance periods completed under the legislations of other Member States shall be taken into account for the granting of these benefits only if completed under a corresponding scheme or, failing this, in the same occupation or, where appropriate, in the same employment.
If, account having been taken of the periods thus completed, the person concerned does not satisfy the conditions for receipt of these benefits, these periods shall be taken into account for the granting of the benefits under the general scheme or, failing this, under the scheme applicable to manual or clerical workers, as appropriate.
Article 39 Award of benefits 1.
The institution of the Member State whose legislation was applicable at the time when incapacity for work followed by invalidity occurred, shall determine, in accordance with that legislation, whether the person concerned satisfies the conditions for entitlement to benefits, taking account where appropriate of the provisions of Article 38. 2.
Section 2 Workers subject either only to legislations under which the amount of invalidity benefit depends on the duration of insurance periods or to legislations of this type and of the type referred to in Section I Article 40 General Provisions 1.
However, a worker who suffers incapacity for work followed by invalidity while subject to a legislation listed in Annex III, shall receive benefits in accordance with Article 37 (1) on two conditions: - that he satisfies the conditions of that legislation or other legislations of the same type, taking account where appropriate of the provisions of Article 38, but without having recourse to insurance periods completed under legislations not listed in Annex III, and - that he does not satisfy the conditions for entitlement to benefits under a legislation not listed in Annex III. 3.
Section 3 Aggravation of invalidity Article 41 1.
Article 43 Conversion of invalidity benefits into old age benefits 1.
CHAPTER 3 OLD AGE AND DEATH (PENSIONS) Article 44 General provisions for the award of benefits when a worker has been subject to the legislation of two or more Member States 1.
This Chapter shall not apply to increases in or supplements to pensions in respect of children, or to orphans' pensions granted pursuant to Chapter 8.
Article 45 Consideration of insurance periods completed under the legislations to which a worker has been subject for the acquisition, retention or recovery of the right to benefits 1.
An institution of a Member State whose legislation makes the acquisition, retention or recovery of the right to benefits conditional upon the completion of insurance period shall take into account, to the extent necessary, insurance periods completed under the legislation of any Member State as though they had been completed under the legislation which it administers. 2.
Where the legislation of am Member State makes the granting of certain benefits conditional upon the insurance periods having been completed in an occupation subject to a special scheme or, where appropriate, in a specific employment, periods completed under the legislations of other Member States shall bei taken into account for the granting of such benefits only if completed under such a scheme or, failing this, in the same occupation or, where appropriate, in the same employment.
If, taking into account periods thus completed, the person concerned does not satisfy the conditions for receipt of these benefits, those periods shall be taken into account for the granting of benefits under the general scheme or, failing this, under the scheme applicable to manual or clerical workers, as appropriate. 3.
Article 46 Award of benefits 1.
Where a worker has been subject to the legislation of a Member State and where he satisfies its conditions for entitlement to benefits, without application of the provisions of Article 45 being necessary, the competent institution of that Member State shall, in accordance with the legislation which it administers, determine the amount of benefit corresponding to the total length of the insurance periods to be taken into account in pursuance of such legislation.
Article 47 Additional provisions for the calculation of benefits 1.
The legislative provisions of a Member State concerning the revalorisation of the factors taken into account for the calculation of benefits shall apply, as appropriate, to the factors to be taken into account by the competent institution of that State, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1, in respect of the insurance periods completed under the legislations of other Member States. 3.
Article 48 Insurance periods of less than one year l.
If the effect of applying the provisions of paragraph 1 would be to relieve them of their obligations all the institutions of the States concerned, benefits shall be awarded exclusively under the legislation of the last of those States whose conditions are satisfied, as if all the insurance periods completed and taken into account in accordance with Article 45 (1) and (2) had been completed under the legislation of that State.
Article 49 Calculation of benefits when the person concerned does not simultaneously satisfy the conditions laid down by all the legislations under which insurance periods have been completed 1.
If, at a given time, the person concerned does not satisfy the conditions laid down for the provision of benefits by all the legislations of the Member States to which he has been subject, taking into account where appropriate the provisions of Article 45, but satisfies the conditions of one or more of them only, the following provisions shall apply: (a) each of the competent institutions administering a legislation whose conditions are satisfied shall calculate the amount of the benefit due, in accordance with the provisions of Article 46; (b) however: (i) if the person concerned satisfies the conditions of at least two legislations without having recourse to insurance periods completed under the legislations whose conditions are not satisfied, these periods shall not be taken into account for the purposes of Article 46 (2); (ii) if the person concerned satisfies the conditions of one legislation only without having recourse to insurance periods completed under the legislations whose conditions are not satisfied, the amount of the benefit due shall be calculated only in accordance with the provisions of the legislation whose conditions are satisfied, taking account of the periods completed under that legislation only. 2.
Article 50 Award of a supplement when the total of benefits due under the legislations of the various Member States does not amount to the minimum laid down by the legislation of the State in whose territory the recipient resides A recipient of benefits to whom this Chapter applies may not, in the State in whose territory he resides and under whose legislation a benefit is due to him, be awarded a benefit which is less than the minimum benefit fixed by that legislation for an insurance period equal to all the insurance periods taken into account for the payment in accordance with the preceding Articles.
Article 51 Revalorisation and recalculation of benefits 1.
Article 54 Stay in or transfer of residence to the competent State 1.
This provision shall not, however, apply to frontier workers. 2.
However, by agreement between the competent institution and the institution of the place of stay or residence, those benefits may be provided by the latter institution on behalf of the former institution, in accordance with the legislation of the competent State. 2.
Article 56 Accidents while travelling An accident while travelling which occurs in the territory of a Member State other than the competent State shall be deemed to have occurred in the territory of the competent State.
Article 57 Benefits for an occupational disease where the person concerned has been exposed to the same risk in several Member States 1.
When a person who has contracted an occupational disease has, under the legislation of two or more Member States, pursued an activity likely to cause that disease, the benefits that he or his survivors may claim shall be awarded exclusively under the legislation of the last of these States whose conditions are satisfied, taking into account, where appropriate, the provisions of paragraphs 2 and 3. 2.
Article 58 Calculation of cash benefits 1.
The competent institution of a Member State whose legislation provides that the calculation of cash benefits shall be based on an average wage or salary shall determine such average wage or salary exclusively by reference to wages or salaries recorded during the periods completed under the said legislation. 2.
The competent institution of a Member State whose legislation provides that the calculation of cash benefits shall be based on a standard wage or salary shall determine such average wage or salary exclusively by reference where appropriate, the average of the standard wages or salaries corresponding to the periods completed under the said legislation. 3.
The competent institution of a Member State whose legislation provides that the amount of cash benefits shall vary with the number of members in the family shall take into account also the members of the family of the person concerned who are residing in the territory of another Member State, as if they were residing in the territory of the competent State.
If there is no insurance against accidents at work or occupational diseases in the territory of the Member State in which a worker happens to be, or if such insurance exists but there is no institution responsible for providing benefits in kind, those benefits shall be provided by the institution of the place of stay or residence responsible for providing benefit in kind in the event of illness. 2.
Where the legislation of the competent State includes a scheme relating to the obligations of the employer, benefits in kind provided in the cases referred to in Articles 52 and 55 (1) shall be deemed to have been provided at the request of the competent institution. 4.
If the legislation of the country of stay or residence has several insurance schemes, the provisions applicable to workers covered by Article 52 or 55 (1) shall be those of the scheme for manual workers in the steel industry.
Section 4 Reimbursements between institutions Article 63 1.
The reimbursements referred to in paragraph 1 shall be determined and made in accordance with the procedures laid down by the implementing Regulation referred to in Article 97, on proof of actual expenditure. 3.
CHAPTER 5 DEATH GRANTS Article 64 Aggregation of insurance periods The competent institution of a Member State whose legislation makes the acquisition, retention or recovery of the right to death grants subject to the completion of insurance periods shall take account, to the extent necessary, of insurance periods completed under the legislation of any other Member State as though they had been completed under the legislation which it administers.
Article 65 Right to grants where death occurs in, or where the person entitled resides in, a Member State other than the competent State 1.
The competent institution shall be obliged to award death grants payable under the legislation which it administers, even if the person entitled resides in the territory of a Member State other than the competent State. 3.
Article 66 Provision of benefits in the event of the death of a pensioner who had resided in a Member state other than the one whose institutions was responsible for providing benefits in kind In the event of the death of a pensioner who was entitled to draw a pension or pensions under the legislation of one or more Member states, when such pensioner was residing in the territory of a Member States other than the one whose institution was responsible for providing him with benefits in kind under Article 28, the death grants payable under the legislation administrated by that instituion shall be provided by the institution at its own expense as though the pensioner had been residing in the territory of the Member States of that institution at the time of his death.
CHAPTER 6 UNEMPLOYMENT Section 1 Common provisions Article 67 Aggregation of periods of insurance or employment 1.
The competent institution of a Member State whose legislation makes the acquiçsition, retention or recovery of the right to benefits subject to the completion of insurance periods shall takes into account, to the extent necessary, periods of insurance or employment completed under the legislation of any other Member States, as though they were periods completed under the legislation with it administers, provided, however, that the periods of employment would have been counted as insurance periods had they been completed under that legislation. 2.
The competent institution of a Member State whose legislation makes the acquisition, retention or recovery of the right to benefits subject to the completion of periods of employment shall take into account, to the extent necessary, periods of insurance or employment completed under the legislation of any other Member State, as though they were periods of employment completed under the legislation which it administers. 3.
Except in the cases referred to in Article 71 (1) (a) (ii) and (b) (ii), application of the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall be subject to the condition that the person concerned should have completed lastly: - in the case of paragraph 1, periods of insurance, - in the case of paragraph 2, periods of employment, in accordance with the provisions of the legislation under which the benefits are claimed. 4.
Article 68 Calculation of benefits 1.
However, if the person concerned had been in his last employment in that territory for less than four weeks, the benefits shall be calculated on the basis of the normal wage or salary corresponding, in the place where the unemployment person is residing or staying, to an equivalent or similar employment to his last employment in the territory of another Member State. 2.
The competent institution of a Member State whose legislation provides that the amount of benefits varies with the number of members of the family, shall take into account also members of the family of the person concerned who are residing in the territory of another Member State, as though they were residing in the territory of the competent State.
Article 70 Provision of benefits and reimbursements 1.
The competent institution of the Member State to whose legislation a worker was subject at the time of his last employment shall be obliged to reimburse the amount of such benefits. 2.
The reimbursements referred to in paragraph 1 shall be determined and made in accordance with the procedure laid down by the implementing Regulation referred to in Article 97, on proof of actual expenditure, or by lump sum payments. 3.
Section 3 Unemployment persons who during their last employment, were residing in a Member State other than the competent State Article 71 1.
An unemployed person who, during his last employment, was residing in the territory of a Member State other the competent State shall receive benefits in accordance with the following provisions: (a) (i) a frontier worker who is partially or intermittently unemployed in the undertaking which employs him, shall receive benefits in accordance with the legislation of the competent State as if he were residing in the territory of that State; these benefits shall be provided by the competent institution; (ii) a frontier worker who is wholly unemployed shall receive benefits in accordance with the legislation of the Member State in whose territory he resides as though he had been subject to that legislation while last employed the institution of the place of residence shall provide such benefits at its own expense; (b) (i) a worker, other than a frontier worker, who is partially, intermittently or wholly unemplyed and who remains available to his employer or to the employment services in the territory of the competent State shall receive benefits in accordance with the legislation of that State as though he were residing in its territory; these benefits shall be provided by the competent institution; (ii) a worker, other than a frontier worker, who is wholly unemployed and who makes himself available for work to the employment services in the territory of the Member State in which he resides, or who returns to that territory, shall receive benefits in accordance with the legislation of that State as if he had last been employed there; the institution of the place of residence shall provide such benefits at its own expense However, if such worker has become entitled to benefits at the expense of the competent institution of the Member State to whose legislation he was last subject, he shall receive benefits under the provisions of Article 69.
Receipt of benefits under the legislation of the State in which he resides shall be suspended for any period during which the unemployed person may, under Article 69, make a claim for benefits under the legislation to which he was last subject. 2.
A worker subject to the legislation of a Member State other than France shall be entitled to the family benefits provided for by the legislation of the first Member State for members of his family residing in the territory of another Member State, as though they were residing in the residing in the territory of the first State. 2.
A worker subject to French legislation shall be entitled, in respect of members of his family residing in the territory of a Member State other than France, to the family allowances provided for by the legislation of such Member State; the worker must satisfy the conditions regarding employment on which French legislation bases entitlement to such benefits. 3.
Article 74 Unemployed persons 1.
An unemployed person drawing unemployment benefits under the legislation of a Member State other than France shall be entitled to the family benefits provided for by the legislation of the first Member State for members of his family residing in the territory of another Member State as though they were residing in the territory of the first State. 2.
An unemployed person drawing unemployment benefits under French legislation shall be entitled, in respect of members of his family residing in the territory of a Member State other than France, to the family allowances provided for by legislation of the State in whose territory those members of the family are residing.
The reimbursements shall be determined and made in accordance with the procedures laid down by the implementing Regulation referred to in Article 97.
CHAPTER 8 BENEFITS FOR DEPENDENT CHILDREN OF PENSIONERS AND FOR ORPHANS Article 77 Dependent children of pensioners 1.
Benefits shall be granted in accordance with the following rules, irrespective of the Member State in whose territory the pensioner or the children are residing; (a) to a pensioner who draws a pension under the legislation of one Member State only, in accordance with the legislation of the Member State responsible for the pension; (b) to a pensioner who draws pensions under the legislation of more than one Member State: (i) in accordance with the legislation of whichever of these States he resides in provided that, taking into account where appropriate Article 79 (1) (a), a right to one of the benefits referred to in paragraph 1 is acquired under the legislation of that State, or ii) in other cases, in accordance with that legislation under which he has completed the longest insurance period, provided that, taking into account where appropriate Article 79 (1) (a), a right to one of the benefits referred to in paragraph (i) is acquired under such legislation; if no right to benefit is acquired under such legislation, the conditions for the acquisition of such right under the legislations of the other States concerned shall be examined in decreasing order of the length of insurance periods completed under the legislation of those States.
Article 78 Orphans 1.
Orphans' benefits shall be granted in accordance with the following rules, irrespective of the Member State in whose territory the orphan or the natural or legal person actually maintaining him is resident or situated; (a) for the orphan of a deceased worker who was subject to the legislation of one Member State only in accordance with the legislation of that State; (b) for the orphan of a deceased worker who was subject to the legislation of several Member States: (i) in accordance with the legislation of the Member State in whose territory the orphan resides provided that, taking into account where appropriate Article 79 (1) (a), a right to one of the benefits referred to in paragraph 4 is acquired under the legislation of that State, or (ii) in other cases, in accordance with the legislation of the Member State under which the deceased worker had completed the longest insurance period provided that, taking into account where appropriate Article 79 (1) (a), the right to one of the benefits referred to in paragraph 1 is acquired under the legislation of that State; if no right is acquired under that legislation, the conditions for the acquisition of such right under the legislations of the other States in question shall be examined in decreasing order of the length of insurance periods completed under the legislation of these States.
However, the legislation of the Member State applicable in respect of provision of the benefits referred to in Article 77 for a pensioner's children shall remain applicable after the death of the said pensioner in respect of the provision of the benefits to his orphans.
Article 79 Provisions common to benefits for dependent children of pensioners and for orphans 1.
Benefits, within the meaning of Articles 77 and 78, shall be provided in accordance with the legislation determined by applying the provisions of those Articles by the institution responsible for administering such legislation and at its expense as if the pensioner or the deceased worker had been subject only to the legislation of the competent State.
In a case where the effect of applying the rule laid down in Articles 77 (2) (b) (ii) and 78 (2) (b) (ii) would be to make several Member States responsible, the length of the insurance periods being equal, benefits within the meaning of Article 77 or Article 78, as the case may be, shall be granted in accordance with the legislation of the Member State to which the worker was last subject. 3.
TITLE IV ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION ON SOCIAL SECURITY FOR MIGRANT WORKERS Article 80 Composition and working methods 1.
A representative of the Commission of the European Communities shall attend the meetings of the Administrative Commission in an advisory capacity. 2.
Article 81 Tasks of the Administrative Commission The Administrative Commission shall have the following duties: (a) to deal with all administrative questions and questions of interpretation arising from this Regulation and subsequent regulations, or from any agreement or arrangement concluded thereunder, without prejudice to the right of the authorities, institutions and persons concerned to have recourse to the procedures and tribunals provided for by the legislations of Member States, by this Regulation or by the Treaty; (b) to carry out all translations of documents relating to the implementation of this Regulation at the request of the competent authorities, institutions and courts of the Member States, and in particular translations of claims submitted by persons who may be entitled to benefit under this Regulation; (c) to foster and develop co-operation between Member States in social security matters, particularly im respect of health and social measures of common interest; (d) to foster and develop co-operation between Member States with a view to expediting, taking into account developments in administrative management techniques, the award of benefits, in particular those due under this Regulation for invalidity, old age and death (pensions); (e) to assemble the factors to be taken into consideration for drawing up accounts relating to the costs to be borne by the institution of the Member States under this Regulation and to adopt the annual accounts between the said institutions; (f) to undertake any other function coming within its competence under the provisions of this and of subsequent Regulations or any agreement or arrangement made thereunder; (g) to submit proposals to the Commission of the European Economic Communities for working out subsequent Regulations and for the revision of this and subsequent Regulations.
TITLE V ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON SOCIAL SECURITY FOR MIGRANT WORKERS Article 82 Establishment, composition and working methods 1.
Such application must include concrete proposals concerning the agenda. 6.
Article 83 Tasks of the Advisory Committee The Advisory Committee shall be empowered, at the request of the Commission of the European Communities or of the Administrative Commission on its own initiative: (a) to examine general questions or questions of principle and problems arising from the implementation of the Regulations adopted within the framework of the provisions of Article 51 of the Treaty; (b) to formulate opinions on the subject for the Administrative Commission and proposals for any revision of the Regulations.
TITLE VI MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS Article 84 Co-operation between competent authorities 1.
Article 86 Claims, declarations or appeals submitted to an authority, institution or court of a Member State other than the competent State Any claim, declaration or appeal which should have been submitted, in order to comply with the legislation of one Member State, within a specified, period to an authority, institution or court of that State shall be admissable if it is submitted within the same period to a corresponding authority, institution, or court of another Member State.
Article 87 Medical examinations 1.
Medical examinations provided for by the legislation of one Member State may be carried out at the request of the competent institution, in the territory of another Member State, by the institution of the place of stay or residence of the person entitled to benefits, under conditions laid down in the implementing Regulation referred to in Article 97 or, failing these, under conditions agreed upon between the competent authorities of the Member States concerned. 2.
Article 88 Transfers from one Member State to another of sums of money payable pursuant to this Regulation Subject to the provisions of Article 106 of the Treaty, money transfers effected pursuant to this Regulation shall be made in accordance with the relevant agreements in force between the Member States concerned at the time of transfer.
Article 89 Special procedures for implementing certain legislations Special procedures for implementing the legislations of certain Member States are set out in Annex V.
Article 90 Housing allowances and family benefits introduced after the entry into force of this Regulation Housing allowances and, in the case of Luxembourg, family benefits introduced after the entry into force of this Regulation for demographic reasons shall not be granted to persons resident in the territory of a Member State other than the competent State.
Article 91 Contributions chargeable to employers or undertakings not established in the competent State An employer shall not be bound to pay increased contributions by reason of the fact that his place of business or the registered office or place of business of his undertaking is in the territory of a Member State other than the competent State.
Article 92 Collection of contributions 1.
Article 93 Rights of institutions responsible for benefits against liable third parties 1.
The provisions of paragraph 1 shall also apply to any rights of the institution responsible for benefit against an employer or his employees in cases where their liability is not excluded.
TITLE VII TRANSITIONAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS Article 94 Miscellaneous provisions 1.
The rights of a person to whom a pension was awarded prior to the entry into force of this Regulation may, on the application of the person concerned, be reviewed, taking into account the provisions of this Regulation.
This provision shall also apply to the other benefits referred to in Article 78. 6.
If an application referred to in paragraph 4 or 5 is submitted after the expiry of the two-year period following the entry into force of this Regulation, rights which have not been forfeited or are not barred by limitation shall have effect from the date on which the application was submitted, except where more favourable provisions of the legislation of any Member State apply. 8.
In cases of sclerogenic pneumoconiosis, Article 57 (3) (c) shall apply to cash benefits for an occupational disease the expense of which, in the absence of an agreement between the institutions concerned, could not be divided between those institutions before the date of entry into force of this Regulation. 9.
The implementation of Article 73 (2) shall not have the effect of reducing any rights existing at the date of entry into force of this Regulation.
The procedure for implementing those provisions shall be laid down by the implementing Regulation referred to in Article 97.
Article 95 Annexes to this Regulation The Annexes to this Regulation may be amended by a Regulation adopted by the Council on a proposal from the Commission, at the request of one or more Member States concerned, and after receiving the Opinion of the Administrative Commission.
Article 96 Notifications pursuant to certain provisions 1.
The notifications referred to in Articles 1 (j), 5 and 8 (2) shall be addressed to the President of the Council of the European Communities.
They shall indicate the date of entry into force of the laws and schemes in question or, in the case of the notifications referred to in Article 1 (j), the date from which this Regulation shall apply to the schemes mentioned in the declarations of the Member States. 2.
Notifications received in accordance with paragraph 1 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Article 97 Implementing regulation A further regulation shall lay down the procedure for implementing this Regulation.
Article 99 Entry into force This Regulation shall enter into force on the first day of the seventh month following the publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities of the implementing Regulation referred to in Article 97.
These two Regulations shall repeal the following Regulations: - Council Regulation No 3 concerning social security for migrant workers, - Council Regulation No 4 laying down implementing procedures and supplementary provisions in respect of Regulation No 3, [6] and [6] OJ No 30, 16.12.1958, p. 597/58. - Council Regulation No 36/63/EEC of 2 April 1963 concerning social security for frontier workers [7] [7] OJ No 62, 20.4.1963, p. 1314/63.
However, the provisions of Articles 82 and 83 concerning the setting up of the Advisory Committee, shall enter into force on the day of publication of the implementing regulation referred to in Article 97.
Done at Luxembourg, 14 June 1971.
Provisions of social security conventions remaining applicable notwithstanding Article 6 of the Regulation (Article 7 (2) (c) of the Regulation) 1.
BELGIUM - ITALY Article 29 of the Convention of 30 April 1948. 4.
BELGIUM - LUXEMBOURG Articles 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 of the Convention of 16 November 1959, in the version appearing in the Convention of 12 February 1964 (frontier workers). 5.
BELGIUM - NETHERLANDS None 6.
GERMANY - LUXEMBOURG Articles 4, 5, 6 and 7 of the Treaty of 11 July 1959 (settlement of the dispute between Germany and Luxembourg) and Article 11 (2) (b) of the convention of 14 July 1960 (sickness and maternity benefits for persons who have opted for the application of the legislation of the country whence they come). 9.
FRANCE - LUXEMBOURG Articles 11 and 14 of the Supplementary Agreement of 12 November 1949 to the General Convention of the same date (workers in mines and similar undertakings). 12.
FRANCE - NETHERLANDS Article 11 of the Supplementary Agreement of 1 June 1954 to the General Convention of 7 January 1950 (workers in mines and similar undertakings). 13.
ITALY - LUXEMBOURG Article 18 (2) and Article 24 of the General Convention of 29 May 1951. 14.
ITALY - NETHERLANDS Article 21 (2) of the General Convention of 28 October 1952. 15.
BELGIUM - ITALY None. 4.
BELGIUM - LUXEMBOURG None. 5.
BELGIUM - NETHERLANDS None. 6.
GERMANY - LUXEMBOURG Articles 4, 5, 6 and 7 of the Treaty of 11 June 1959 (settlement of the dispute between Germany and Luxembourg). 9.
FRANCE - NETHERLANDS None. 13.
ITALY - LUXEMBOURG None. 14.
ITALY - NETHERLANDS None. 15.
ANNEX III (Article 37 (2) of the Regulation) Legislations referred to in Article 37 (1) of the Regulation under which the amount of invalidity benefits is independent of the length of insurance periods A.
BELGIUM The legislations relating to the general invalidity scheme, to the special invalidity scheme for miners and to the special scheme for mariners in the merchant navy.
NETHERLANDS The law of 18 February 1966 on insurance against incapacity for work.
For the application of the provisions of Chapters 7 and 8 of Title III of the Regulation by the competent Belgian institution, a child shall be considered to have been brought up in the Member State in whose territory he resides. 3.
For the purposes of Article 46 (2) of the Regulation, old-age insurance periods completed under Belgian legislation before 1 January 1945 shall also be considered as insurance periods completed under the Belgian legislation on the general invalidity scheme and the mariners' scheme.
In order to determine whether a child is receiving an orphan's pension, receipt of one of the benefits referred to in Article 78 or of another family benefit granted under French legislation for a minor residing in France shall be treated as the receipt of an orphan's pension under German legislation. 5.
If the competent institution for granting family benefits in accordance with Title III Chapter 7 of the Regulation is a German institution, a person compulsorily insured against the risk of unemployment or a person who, as a result of such insurance, obtains cash benefits under sickness insurance or comparable benefits shall be considered as a worker (Article 1 (a) of the Regulation).
Law No 65-655 of 10 July 1965 which grants to French nationals who are pursuing, or who have pursued, a professional or trade activity abroad the right to join the voluntary old-age insurance scheme, shall apply to nationals of other Member States under the following conditions: - the professional or trade activity giving rise to voluntary insurance under the French system should not be, or have been, pursued either on French territory or on the territory of the Member State of which the worker is a national; - the worker must produce evidence, when making his claim, either that he has resided in France for at least ten consecutive years, or that he has been continuously subject to French legislation on a compulsory or optional basis for the same length of time. 4.
LUXEMBOURG By way of derogation from Article 94 (2) of the Regulation, insurance periods or periods treated as such completed before 1 January 1946 under Luxembourg legislation for invalidity, old-age or death pension insurance shall only be taken into consideration for the purpose of applying this legislation to the extent that rights in the process of being acquired should be maintained until 1 January 1959 or subsequently recovered in accordance with that legislation alone, or in accordance with bilateral conventions in force or to be concluded.
