This Regulation lays down the detailed rules for applying Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999 in particular regarding aid for the use of grapes, grape must and concentrated grape must (Title I), private storage aid (Title II) and distillation (Title III).
Without prejudice to Article 30 of this Regulation, operators who were subject to the obligations laid down in Articles 27 and 28 of Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999 during the previous wine year shall be eligible for the measures provided for in this Regulation only where they provide evidence that they fulfilled their obligations regarding delivery or withdrawal under supervision during the wine year concerned.
This Chapter lays down the detailed rules for applying the aid scheme introduced by Article 35(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999.
The aid shall be granted to processors: (a) who are themselves producers or groups of producers and who process or have processed on their behalf the grapes they have harvested, and grape must and concentrated grape must obtained entirely from their own grape crop, into grape juice or other comestible products manufactured from such grape juice, or (b) who purchase from producers or groups of producers, either directly or indirectly, grapes produced in the Community and grape must or concentrated grape must, for the purpose of processing them into grape juice or other comestible products manufactured from such grape juice.
The raw materials used must have been obtained exclusively from grapes produced in the Community. 2.
The grape must and the must obtained from the grapes used must have a density at 20 °C of between 1.055 and 1.100 grams per cubic centimetre.
Processors who carry out processing operations on specified dates and who wish to receive aid under Article 35(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999 shall submit a written statement to the competent authority, at least three working days before the beginning of those operations, containing in particular: (a) the information required under (a) and (b) in paragraph 1 of this Article, (b) the wine-growing zone in which the raw materials were obtained, in accordance with the classification in Annex III to Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999, (c) the following technical information: (i) the quantity (in 100 kilograms of grapes or hectolitres of grape must or concentrated grape must), (ii) the density, in the case of grape must and concentrated grape must, (iii) the date of commencement and the probable duration of processing operations.
The statement shall relate to a minimum quantity of: (a) 1300 kg for grapes, (b) 10 hectolitres for grape must, (c) 3 hectolitres for concentrated must.
Processors who use no more than 50 tonnes of grapes, 800 hl of grape must or 150 hl of concentrated grape must each wine year to produce grape juice shall submit a statement to the competent authorities at the beginning of the wine year containing the information required under (a) and (b) of paragraph 1 of this Article.
Processors shall keep stock accounts showing in particular the following information taken from accompanying documents or the registers referred to in Article 70 of Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999: (a) the quantities, density and wine-growing zone of origin of the raw materials entering their premises each day and, where applicable, the name and address of the seller(s), (b) the quantities and density of raw materials used each day, (c) the quantities of grape juice obtained each day after processing, (d) the quantities of grape juice leaving their premises each day and the name and address of the consignee(s).
Where processors themselves carry out one of the operations referred to in Article 7(1) of this Regulation in their juice-manufacturing premises, possibly mixing the juice with other products, the information referred to in (d) in the preceding subparagraph shall not be required.
Where processors do not themselves carry out the operations referred to in paragraph 1, they shall indicate in the accompanying document referred to in Article 70(1) of Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999 whether they have already submitted or intend to submit an application for aid to manufacture grape juice under this Regulation. 3.
Where processors dispatch the grape juice to a user within the Community intending to store it prior to bottling or use in the manufacture of other comestible products, (a) the storage undertaking shall send the document accompanying the grape juice to the competent authority at the place of unloading not later than 15 days after receiving the product, (b) the competent authority shall stamp the accompanying document referred to in point (a) only after verifying that a quantity at least equivalent to that of the consignment concerned has been dispatched, with an appropriate accompanying document, to a bottler or an undertaking manufacturing comestible products covered by this Regulation, and has been received by that user.
Where processors dispatch the grape juice to a user within the Community intending to bottle it, the latter shall forward a copy of the accompanying document to the competent authority of the place of unloading not later than 15 days after receiving the product.
Where processors dispatch the grape juice to a user within the Community manufacturing other comestible products made with this juice, (a) the manufacturer of these products shall send the document accompanying the grape juice to the competent authority not later than 15 days after receiving the product, (b) the competent authority shall stamp the accompanying document referred to in point (a) only if it has sufficient assurance that the grape juice is actually intended for the manufacture of the comestible products concerned.
In the cases covered by this Article, users shall keep stock accounts showing in particular: (a) the quantities of unpackaged grape juice entering their premises each day and the name and address of the consignor/processor, (b) the quantities of unpackaged grape juice leaving their premises each day and the name and address of the consignee(s). (c) the quantities of grape juice and/or grape juice mixed with other products packaged each day, indicating the quantity of grape juice used to manufacture the products concerned. 7.
Article 8 Aid applications 1.
In addition, within six months of the date on which the stamp provided for in Article 7 of this Regulation is affixed or the date of export of the grape juice, the processors concerned shall submit, as the case may be: (a) the copy of the accompanying document stamped by the competent authority provided for in Article 7, (b) a copy of the accompanying document bearing a customs stamp certifying export. 4.
Article 9 Conditions for granting the aid 1.
Except in cases of force majeure, the aid shall be due only for the quantity of raw materials actually used, not exceeding the following ratio between the product used and the grape juice obtained: (a) 1.3 for grapes, in 100 kg per hectolitre, (b) 1.05 for must, in hectolitres per hectolitre, (c) 0.30 for concentrated must, in hectolitres per hectolitre.
Where the product obtained is concentrated grape juice, those ratios shall be multiplied by 5. 2.
Except in cases of force majeure, if processors fail to fulfil one of the obligations devolving on them under this Regulation other than the obligation to process the raw materials covered by their aid applications into grape juice, the aid to be paid shall be reduced by an amount fixed by the competent authority depending on the seriousness of the infringement. 3.
Article 11 Advance payments 1.
Processors may request that an amount equal to the aid calculated for the raw materials be paid to them in advance provided that they provide evidence that the raw materials have entered their premises and they have lodged a security in favour of the intervention agency.
That security shall be equal to 120 % of the said amount.
In such cases, the security shall correspond to 120 % of all the amounts calculated in accordance with the first subparagraph. 2.
After the competent authority or authorised department has checked all the documents referred to in Article 8 of this Regulation, the security referred to in paragraph 1 shall be released in whole or in part, as the case may be, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 19 of Commission Regulation (EEC) No 2220/85.
Except in cases of force majeure, the security shall be forfeit where the quantity used is less than 95 % of the quantity for which the advance was paid.
Where the quantity used is less than 95 % of the quantity for which the advance was paid, the processor shall continue to be entitled to aid for the quantity actually processed.
Where the quantity used is between 95 and 99,9 % of the quantity for which the advance was paid, the security shall be forfeit only for the quantity not processed during the wine year.
CHAPTER II AID FOR MUST USED TO INCREASE THE ALCOHOLIC STRENGTH OF WINE PRODUCTS Article 12 Purpose of the aid 1.
Aid as referred to in Article 34(1) of Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999 shall be granted to producers of table wines or quality wines produced in specified regions (quality wines psr) who use concentrated grape must and rectified concentrated grape must produced in the Community to increase the natural alcoholic strength by volume of the products referred to in Annex V(C) to Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999. 2.
Article 13 Amount of the aid 1.
The amount of the aid referred to in Article 34(1) of Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999 shall be fixed as follows, by potential alcoholic strength by volume (% vol.) per hectolitre, for the following categories of products: (a) Concentrated grape must from grapes harvested: - in wine-growing zones C III (a) and C III EUR 1.699/% vol./hl - elsewhere EUR 1.466/% vol./hl (b) Rectified concentrated grape must from grapes harvested: - in wine-growing zones C III (a) and C III EUR 2.206/% vol./hl - elsewhere EUR 1.955/% vol./hl However, for wine years 2000/01, 2001/2002 and 2002/03 for rectified concentrated musts obtained from grapes harvested elsewhere than in wine-growing zones C III (a) and C III (b) and produced in establishments that began production of rectified concentrated musts before 1 January 1986 in Spain or before 30 June 1982 elsewhere, the amount shall be that laid down for products of wine-growing zones C III. 2.
The potential alcoholic strength of the products listed in paragraph 1 shall be determined by applying the figures in the table of equivalence in Annex I hereto to the readings at 20 °C from a refractometer used in accordance with the method laid down in Annex XVIII to Regulation (EC) No ..../2000 establishing a Community code of oenological practices and processes.
Article 14 Aid applications Producers wishing to receive the aid provided for in Article 34(1) of Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999 shall submit an application to the competent intervention agency covering all operations to increase alcoholic strength to which that Article applies.
Article 15 Conditions for granting the aid 1.
Except in cases of force majeure, no aid shall be payable if the producer does not carry out the operation referred to in Article 34(1) of Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999 in accordance with Annex V(C) and (D) to that Regulation. 2.
Except in cases of force majeure, where producers fail to comply with any of the requirements of this Regulation other than that referred to in paragraph 1, the aid payable shall be reduced by an amount to be fixed by the competent authority depending on the seriousness of the infringement. 3.
In cases of force majeure, the competent authority shall determine the measures which it deems necessary in view of the circumstances invoked.
The intervention agency shall pay advances within three months of presentation of proof that the security has been lodged. 3.
After the competent authority or the authorised department has checked all the documents, and taking account of the amount to be paid, the security shall be released in whole or in part, as the case may be, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 19 of Commission Regulation (EEC) No 2220/85.
CHAPTER III AID FOR THE MANUFACTURE OF CERTAIN PRODUCTS IN THE UNITED KINGDOM AND IN IRELAND Article 18 Purpose and amount of the aid 1.
Article 19 Aid applications 1.
Manufacturers and operators wishing to receive aid as provided for in Article 35(1)(b) or (c) of Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999 shall submit a written application, between 1 August and 31 July of the wine year concerned, to the competent authority of the Member State in which the concentrated grape must is used.
Applications must be made at least seven working days before the manufacturing operations begin.
However, the period of seven working days may be shortened where the competent authority so authorises in writing. 2.
Aid applications shall cover a minimum quantity of 50 kilograms of concentrated grape must. 3.
Article 20 Conditions for granting the aid 1.
Manufacturers and operators shall be bound to use the full quantity of concentrated grape must covered by an aid application for the purposes referred to in Article 35(1)(b) and (c) of Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999.
A shortfall of 10 % of the quantity of concentrated grape must stated in the application shall be tolerated. 2.
Manufacturers and operators shall keep stock accounts showing in particular: (a) the consignments of concentrated grape must purchased and brought each day into their premises, together with the information indicated in Article 19(2)(b) and (c) of this Regulation and the name and address of the seller(s), (b) the quantities of concentrated grape must used each day for the purposes referred to in Article 35(1)(b) and (c) of Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999, (c) the consignments of finished products mentioned in Article 35(1)(b) and (c) of Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999 produced and dispatched each day from their premises, together with the name and address of the consignee(s). 3.
Manufacturers and operators shall inform the competent authority in writing, within one month, of the date when all the concentrated grape must covered by an aid application has been used for the purposes referred to in Article 35(1)(b) and (c) of Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999, allowing for the shortfall provided for in paragraph 1 of this Article. 4.
Except in cases of force majeure, where manufacturers or operators fail to comply with any of the requirements of this Regulation other than that referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, the aid payable shall be reduced by an amount to be fixed by the competent authority depending on the seriousness of the infringement. 6.
In cases of force majeure, the competent authority shall determine the measures which it deems necessary in view of the circumstances invoked.
Article 21 Payment of the aid The competent authority shall pay aid for the quantity of concentrated grape must actually used not later than three months after receiving the information referred to in Article 20(3) of this Regulation.
Article 22 Advance payments 1.
Manufacturers and operators as referred to in Article 18 of this Regulation may apply for an amount equal to the aid to be paid in advance provided they have lodged a security for 120 % of the said amount in favour of the competent authority. 2.
Advance payments as referred to in paragraph 1 shall be paid within three months of presentation of proof that the security has been lodged, provided that evidence is supplied that the concentrated grape must has been paid for. 3.
After the competent authority has received the information referred to in Article 20(3) of this Regulation, and taking account of the amount of aid to be paid, the security referred to in paragraph 1 shall be released in whole or in part, as the case may be, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 19 of Commission Regulation (EEC) No 2220/85.
TITLE II PRIVATE STORAGE AID Article 23 Purpose This Title lays down the detailed rules for applying the storage aid scheme referred to in Chapter I of Title III of Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999.
Article 24 Definitions For the purposes of this Title, %quot%products%quot% means grape must, concentrated grape must, rectified concentrated grape must and table wines, irrespective of the wine year in which they were produced.
Article 25 Amount of the aid Storage aid shall be payable throughout the Community at the following standard rates per hectolitre per day: (a) EUR 0.01837 for grape must; (b) EUR 0.06152 for concentrated grape must; (c) EUR 0.06152 for rectified concentrated grape must; (d) EUR 0.01544 for table wines.
Article 26 Rules applicable to beneficiaries 1.
The organisations referred to in Article 39 of Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999 shall be treated as producers for the quantities obtained by their members.
The individual members delivering wine covered by a private storage contract shall be responsible for fulfilling the obligations referred to in Article 2 of this Regulation. 2.
Article 28 Quantities eligible for aid 1.
The total quantity of products for which producers conclude storage contracts may not exceed the quantity stated in their production declaration for the wine year concerned, submitted in accordance with Article 18(1) of Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999, plus any quantities they obtained after the date on which their declaration was submitted and recorded in the registers referred to in Article 70 of Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999. 2.
Contracts shall cover a minimum quantity of 50 hectolitres in the case of table wine, 30 hectolitres in the case of grape must and 10 hectolitres in the case of concentrated grape must and rectified concentrated grape must.
Article 29 Conclusion of contracts 1.
For grape must, concentrated grape must and rectified concentrated grape must, the following information shall also be provided: (c) the reading obtained at a temperature of 20 °C with a refractometer used in accordance with the method referred to in the Annex to Commission Regulation (EEC) No 558/93.
The above analysis data shall be established by an official laboratory as referred to in Article 72 of Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999 within 30 days before the contract is concluded. 2.
Article 30 Derogation from Article 2 of this Regulation The Member States may authorise the conclusion of contracts before producers have supplied the evidence referred to in Article 2 of this Regulation provided such contracts include a statement by producers certifying that they have met the obligations referred to in that Article or fulfil the requirement referred to in Article 58 of Title III of this Regulation and that they undertake to deliver the remaining quantities needed to comply fully with their obligations within the time limit laid down by the competent national authority.
The evidence referred to in the first paragraph shall be supplied before 31 August of the wine year concerned.
Article 31 Beginning of the storage period 1.
The first day of the storage period shall be the day following the date on which the contract is concluded. 2.
However, if a contract relates to a storage period beginning after the day following that on which it is concluded, the first day of the storage period may not be later than 16 February.
Article 32 End of the storage period 1.
Storage contracts for table wines shall expire between 1 September and 30 November following the date of conclusion. 3.
Producers who have not applied for an advance under Article 38 of this Regulation may sell the grape must or concentrated grape must for exportation or manufacture of grape juice from the first day of the fifth month of storage.
In such cases, producers shall inform the intervention agency in accordance with paragraph 3.
Article 33 Early termination of the contract at the request of the producer 1.
Throughout the storage period and until the last day of validity of the contract, products in storage: (a) must comply with the relevant definitions in Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999, (b) must retain at least the minimum alcoholic strength required for the category of table wine concerned at the time of conclusion of the contract, (c) may not be kept in containers of less than 50 litres capacity, (d) must remain in bulk, and (e) in the case of wine, must remain fit for offer or supply for direct human consumption at the end of the storage period. 2.
Without prejudice to Article 33 of this Regulation, producers may not sell or in any other way market the product under contract during the period of validity of the contract.
Notwithstanding the first subparagraph, producers may undertake, while a contract is still valid, to send table wine covered by it for distillation under Title III of this Regulation on expiry of the contract. 4.
Producers who have concluded private storage contracts for grape must may process all or part of that must into concentrated grape must or rectified concentrated grape must during the period of validity of their contract.
Producers who have concluded private storage contracts for concentrated grape must may process all or part of that must into rectified concentrated grape must during the period of validity of their contract.
Within one month of the day of completion of the processing operations, producers shall send the intervention agency an analysis report concerning the product thus obtained, including as a minimum the data required for the product concerned under Article 29 of this Regulation. 8.
Where the processing referred to in paragraph 6 is carried out, the amount of storage aid for the product under contract shall be equal to: (a) the amount referred to in Article 25(a) of this Regulation for the processing referred to in the first subparagraph of paragraph 6, (b) the amount referred to in Article 25(b) of this Regulation for the processing referred to in the second subparagraph of paragraph 6.
Should all or part of the product under contract cease to satisfy the requirements of Article 34(1) of this Regulation during the period of validity of the contract, the producer shall inform the intervention agency without delay.
Should a check carried out by the intervention agency or any other inspecting agency reveal that all or part of the product under contract has ceased to satisfy the conditions laid down in Article 34(1) of this Regulation during the period of validity of the contract, the intervention agency shall terminate the contract for the quantity concerned on the date that it determines.
Article 36 Conditions for granting the aid 1.
Except in cases of force majeure, (a) where producers fail to fulfil their obligations under Article 34(1) to (5) and (7) of this Regulation or refuse to submit to checks, no aid shall be payable; (b) where producers fail to fulfil one of their obligations under this Regulation or under the contract, other than those referred to in (a) above, the aid shall be reduced by an amount determined by the competent authority depending on the seriousness of the infringement. 2.
In cases where force majeure is recognised, the intervention agency shall take such action as it considers necessary having regard to the circumstances involved.
Article 37 Payment of the aid 1.
In cases where a contract has been terminated in accordance with Articles 33 or 36 of this Regulation, the aid payable shall be in proportion to the actual duration of the contract.
Article 38 Advance payments 1.
Producers who have concluded long-term storage contracts may request that an amount equal to the aid calculated when the contract is drawn up be paid to them in advance provided that they have lodged a security for 120 % of the said amount in favour of the intervention agency.
TITLE III DISTILLATION Introduction Article 40 Purpose This Title lays down the detailed rules applicable to distillation as referred to in Chapter II of Title III of Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999.
Article 41 Definitions 1.
For the purposes of this Title: (a) %quot%producer%quot% means: (i) for the purposes of Chapter I of this Title: any natural or legal person or group of such persons having produced wine from fresh grapes, grape must or partially fermented grape must or from new wine still in fermentation, obtained personally or purchased, or any natural or legal person or group of such persons subject to the obligations referred to in Article 27 of Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999; (ii) for the purposes of Chapters II and III of this Title: any natural or legal person or group of such persons having produced wine from fresh grapes, grape must or partially fermented grape must, obtained personally or purchased; (b) %quot%distiller%quot% means any natural or legal person or group of such persons: (i) distilling wine, wine fortified for distillation or the by-products of wine-making or of any other form of processing grapes, and (ii) approved by the competent authorities in the Member State in whose territory the distillation premises are located; (c) %quot%maker of wine fortified for distillation%quot% means any natural or legal person or group of such persons, other than distillers: (i) processing wine into wine fortified for distillation, and (ii) approved by the competent authorities in the Member State in whose territory the premises are located; (d) %quot%competent intervention agency%quot% means: (i) for the purposes of receiving and approving contracts or declarations relating to the delivery of wine for distillation and receiving and approving contracts relating to the delivery of wine for fortification, the intervention agency designated by the Member State in whose territory the wine is located at the time when the contract or declaration is submitted, (ii) for the purposes of paying aid to makers of wine fortified for distillation under Article 69, the intervention agency designated by the Member State in whose territory the wine is fortified, (iii) in all other cases, the intervention agency designated by the Member State in whose territory distillation takes place. 2.
For the purposes of this Title, natural or legal persons or groups of such persons other than makers of wine fortified for distillation shall be deemed to be distillers if they: (a) are approved by the competent authorities in the Member State in which they are established; (b) buy from a producer as defined in paragraph 1(a) wine or the by-products of wine-making or of any other form of processing of grapes with a view to having them distilled on their own account by an approved distiller, and (c) pay the producer not less for the products purchased than the minimum buying-in price for the distilled product in question.
Should an association intend to carry out a distillation operation under this Title in agreement with the wine-growers' cooperatives concerned during a specified wine year, it shall inform the intervention agency thereof in writing.
Article 42 Approval of distillers 1.
The Commission shall publish that list and any amendments to it. 2.
The competent authority may withdraw approval, either temporarily or permanently, from distillers failing to meet their obligations under the Community rules.
Article 43 Alcohol obtained by distillation Only the following products may be obtained by distillation under this Title: (a) neutral alcohol complying with the definition in Annex III to this Regulation, or (b) spirits distilled from wine or from grape marc, complying with the definitions in Article 1(4)(d) or (f) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1576/89 of 29 May 1989 laying down general rules on the definition, description and presentation of spirit drinks(4), or (c) a distillate or raw alcohol with an alcoholic strength of at least 52 % by volume.
Where the product specified in point (c) in the first subparagraph is obtained, it may be used only under official supervision for: (i) the production of an alcoholic beverage, (ii) processing into one of the products referred to in (a) or (b) above, with the exception of spirits distilled from grape marc, (iii) the production of alcohol for industrial purposes.
Article 44 Analysis method for neutral alcohol Annex V to this Regulation sets out the Community methods for the analysis of neutral alcohol as defined in Annex IV hereto.
CHAPTER I COMPULSORY DISTILLATION Section I: Distillation of by-products of wine-making Article 45 Obligation to deliver by-products for distillation 1.
Producers required to distil under Article 27 of Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999 shall discharge their obligations by delivering for distillation, not later than 15 July of the wine year concerned: (a) all of their marc and wine lees to an approved distiller, and (b) where applicable, any wine to an approved distiller or approved maker of wine fortified for distillation.
Producers who have not made wine or processed grapes in any other way on cooperative premises and who do not produce more than 25 hectolitres of wine or must during the wine year in question shall be free not to deliver any quantities.
In the Italian part of wine-growing zones C and the Portuguese wine-growing zone, persons subject to the obligation referred to in paragraph 1 may be released from that obligation by making use of the possibility provided for in Article 27(8) of Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999 provided they have made wine or processed grapes in any other manner using a quantity corresponding to more than 25 hectolitres but not more than 40 hectolitres of wine.
Article 46 Requirements for by-products delivered for distillation 1.
To keep distillation costs within acceptable limits, the minimum average requirements that wine-making by-products must meet on delivery to the distillery shall be the following: (a) grape marc: (i) in wine-growing zone B: two litres of pure alcohol/100 kilograms, (ii) in wine-growing zone C: two litres of pure alcohol/100 kilograms where it is obtained from varieties listed in the classification of vine varieties for the administrative unit concerned as varieties other than wine-grape varieties; 2.8 litres of pure alcohol/100 kilograms where it is obtained from varieties listed in the classification for the administrative unit concerned solely as wine-grape varieties; (b) wine lees: (i) in wine-growing zone B: three litres of pure alcohol/100 kilograms, 45 % moisture content, (ii) in wine-growing zone C: four litres of pure alcohol/100 kilograms, 45 % moisture content, 4.
In the case of producers who deliver wine and by-products of their own production for supervised experiments conducted by the Member States, the provisions on buying-in prices referred to in Article 47 shall apply, and aid shall be paid to the distiller at a rate of EUR 0.277/% vol./hl.
Article 47 Buying-in price 1.
The buying-in price referred to in Article 27(9) of Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999 shall apply to bulk merchandise ex distiller's premises. 2.
However, unless the producer objects, distillers may: (a) pay the producer on account 80 % of the buying-in price, no more than three months after delivery of the products, or (b) make the payment on account referred in (a) following delivery of the products and no later that one month after presentation of the invoice to be drawn up for them before 31 August following the close of the wine year concerned.
Distillers shall pay the balance to producers no later than the following 31 October.
Article 48 Aid to be paid to distillers 1.
Differentiated aid for alcohol distilled from marc or from wine and wine lees as referred to in paragraph 1(a): (a) may be decided on by the Member States where application of the flat-rate aid referred to at (i) makes it or could make it impossible to have one or more of the by-products of wine-making distilled in certain regions of the Community, (b) must be paid to distillers where one of these raw materials accounts for more than 60 % of the total quantities they have distilled during a given wine year. 3.
No aid shall be due for quantities of wine delivered for distillation exceeding the producer's obligation as provided for in Article 45(1) of this Regulation by more than 2 %.
Producers who have not made wine or processed grapes in any other way on cooperative premises and who do not produce more than 25 hectolitres of wine or must during the wine year in question shall be free not to deliver any quantities. 3.
For that part of their wine production actually delivered to a distillery for distillation under Article 28 of Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999, producers shall be required to deliver only by-products of wine-making for distillation under Article 27(3) of that Regulation.
Article 50 Withdrawals 1.
Withdrawal, together with an indication of the estimated quantities, shall be either entered in the registers kept in accordance with Article 70 of Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999 or certified by the competent authority.
The withdrawal of the wine lees in question shall be regarded as having taken place once the lees have been denatured to make their use in winemaking impossible and where the delivery of the denatured lees to third parties has been entered in the registers referred to in the first subparagraph.
Member States whose wine production exceeds 25000 hectolitres per year shall check by sampling at least whether the average minimum alcoholic strength referred to in Article 51 has been complied with and whether all the by-products have been withdrawn within the time limits set.
Section II: Distillation of wine from dual-purpose grapes Article 52 Obligation to deliver wine for distillation Producers required to distil under Article 28 of Regulation (EEC) No 1493/1999 shall discharge their obligation by delivering their wine to an approved distillery not later than 15 July of the wine year concerned.
In cases covered by Article 71 of this Regulation, the obligation shall be discharged by delivering the wine to an approved maker of wine fortified for distillation not later than 15 June of the wine year concerned.
Article 53 Quantity of wine to be delivered 1.
In the case of wine obtained from grapes of varieties classified as both wine-grape varieties and varieties for other uses, the total quantity of wine normally produced shall for each administrative unit be the average quantity produced during the wine years: - 1974/75 to 1979/80 in the Community of Ten, - 1978/79 to 1983/84 in Spain and Portugal, - 1988/89 to 1993/94 in Austria.
However, in the case of wine obtained from grapes of varieties classified in a given administrative unit as both wine-grape varieties and varieties for the production of wine spirits, quantities distilled for purposes other than the production of wine spirits with a registered designation of origin shall be deducted from that quantity.
As regards wine as referred to in the first subparagraph, the quantity normally produced per hectare shall be fixed by the Member States concerned by establishing the proportion of wine obtained during the same reference period referred to in that subparagraph from grapes of varieties classified in a given administrative unit as both wine-grape varieties and varieties for other purposes. 3.
Article 54 Exceptions to the obligation to deliver for distillation Where a derogation is granted under Article 28(1) of Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999, the wine covered by that Article may be moved: (a) to a customs office for completion of customs export formalities followed by removal from the customs territory of the Community, or (b) to the premises of an approved maker of wine fortified for distillation with a view to fortification.
Article 55 Buying-in price 1.
Distillers shall pay the buying-in price specified in Article 28(3) of Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999 to producers for the quantity delivered within three months of the date of delivery to the distillery.
Section III: Common provisions applicable to Sections I and II of this Chapter Article 58 Partial deliveries Producers subject to one of the obligations referred to in Articles 45 and 52 of this Regulation who have delivered at least 90 % of the quantity of product which they are obliged to deliver before 15 July of the current wine year may discharge their obligation by delivering the remaining quantity before a date, to be fixed by the competent national authority, which may not be after 31 August of the following wine year.
In such cases: (a) the buying-in price for the remaining quantities referred to in the first subparagraph and the price for the alcohol produced therefrom and delivered to the intervention agency shall be reduced by an amount equal to the aid for neutral alcohol fixed for the distillation operation in question in accordance with Article 48(1)(a)(i) and Article 56(a) of this Regulation, (b) no aid shall be paid for products of distillation not delivered to intervention agencies, (c) the obligation shall be deemed to have been discharged by the date fixed in accordance with the first subparagraph, (d) the time limits for distillation, submission of proof of payment of the price referred to at (a) and delivery of the alcohol to the intervention agency shall be adjusted by the competent authority to take account of the extended time limit for delivery.
Article 59 Proof of delivery As proof of delivery, distillers shall provide producers, before 31 August of the following wine year, with a certificate stating at least the type, quantity and alcoholic strength by volume of the products delivered, as well as the dates of delivery.
However, where producers deliver the products which they are to have distilled to a distillery located in a Member State other than that in which the products were obtained, the distiller shall require the intervention agency of the Member State of distillation to certify that the distillery has taken over the products in question on the official document provided for in Article 70 of Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999 covering transport of the products.
Article 60 Proofs to be supplied by distillers to intervention agencies 1.
In order to qualify for aid, distillers shall submit an application to the intervention agency, no later than 30 November following the wine year concerned, enclosing for the quantities covered by their application: a) (i) in the case of wine and wine lees, a summary of the deliveries made by each producer, stating at least: - the type, quantity, colour and alcoholic strength by volume, - the number of the document provided for in Article 70(1) of Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999, where such a document is required for transport of the products to the distiller's premises or, otherwise, the reference number of the transport document used under national rules; (ii) in the case of grape marc, a list of the names of the producers who have delivered marc and the quantity of alcohol contained in the marc delivered for distillation under Article 27 of Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999; (b) a declaration, stamped by the competent authority designated by the Member State, stating at least: (i) the quantity of products obtained by distillation, broken down by category as indicated in Article 43 of this Regulation, (ii) the date on which these products were obtained; (c) proof that they have paid the producer the minimum buying-in price laid down for the distillation operation concerned within the time allowed.
Where producers carry out the distillation themselves, the documents referred to in paragraph 1 shall be replaced by a declaration, stamped by the competent authority of the Member State, stating at least: (a) the type, quantity, colour and alcoholic strength by volume of the product to be distilled, (b) the quantity of products obtained from distillation, broken down by category as indicated in Article 43 of this Regulation, (c) the dates on which these products were obtained. 3.
Proof that the minimum price has been paid may be replaced by proof that a security has been lodged in favour of the intervention agency.
The security shall be equal to 120 % of the aid applied for.
In such cases, proof that the distiller has paid the full buying-in price referred to in Article 27(9) or Article 28(3) of Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999 shall be supplied to the intervention agency no later than the last day of February following the wine year concerned. 4.
In cases as referred to in the second subparagraph of Article 47(2) of this Regulation, proof that the buying-in price has been paid shall be replaced by proof that the payment on account has been made. 5.
Article 61 Dates of distillation operations 1.
Any wine delivered to meet the obligation laid down in Article 27 of Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999 may not be distilled before 1 January of the wine year concerned. 2.
Not later than the 10th of each month, distillers shall send the intervention agency a statement of the quantities of products distilled and products obtained during the previous month, the latter being broken down by category as indicated in Article 43 of this Regulation. 3.
Distillation may not take place after 31 July of the wine year concerned.
Article 62 Delivery of alcohol to the intervention agency 1.
Differentiated prices for marc alcohol, wine alcohol and alcohol distilled from wine lees as referred to in paragraph 2(a): (a) may be decided on by the Member States where application of the standard price makes it or could make it impossible to have one or more of the by-products of wine-making distilled in certain regions of the Community, (b) must be paid to distillers where one of these raw materials accounts for more than 60 % of the total quantities they have distilled during a given wine year. 4.
CHAPTER II OPTIONAL DISTILLATION Article 63 Opening of distillation as provided for in Article 29 of Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999 1.
The distillation of table wine and wine suitable for yielding table wine referred to in Article 29 of Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999 shall be opened on 1 September each wine year. 2.
The volume of table wine and wine suitable for yielding table wine that each producer may have distilled shall be limited to 40 % of the highest volume of such wine produced and declared in the previous three wine years, including the current year if production has already been declared.
Each producer who has produced table wine or wine suitable for yielding table wine may conclude a contract or make a declaration as referred to in Article 65 of this Regulation.
The security referred to in paragraph 3 shall be released in proportion to the quantities supplied when the producer provides evidence of delivery to a distillery. 9.
Article 64 Amount of aid 1.
Such notification must be made at least 30 days before storage commences.
Distillers may terminate storage of alcohol as of 1 June provided the Commission so authorises in the light of the situation in the sector. 4.
In the case of primary aid, the intervention agency shall pay distillers or, in the cases referred to in Article 65(2), producers, the aid calculated in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Article no more than three months after submission of the proof referred to in Article 65(10) of this Regulation.
CHAPTER III PROVISIONS COMMON TO CHAPTERS I AND II Section I: General Article 65 Delivery contracts 1.
All producers intending to deliver wine of their own production for distillation under Articles 29 and 30 of Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999 shall conclude one or more delivery contracts, hereinafter referred to as %quot%contracts%quot%, with one or more distillers.
Producers subject to the obligations laid down in Articles 27 and 28 of Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999 shall also provide distillers with proof that they have fulfilled those obligations during the period set in Article 2(2) of this Regulation. 2.
Producers may not deliver the wine for distillation unless their contract has been approved by the competent intervention agency.
Producers as referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article: a) who themselves possess distillation facilities and who intend to carry out the distillation covered by this Chapter, or b) who intend to have their wine distilled on their behalf in the plant of an approved distiller working under contract, shall submit a declaration of delivery for distillation, hereinafter referred to as the %quot%declaration%quot%, to the competent intervention agency for approval before a date to be specified.
Producers subject to the obligations referred to in Articles 27 and 28 of Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999 shall also provide the competent intervention agency with proof that they have fulfilled those obligations during the reference period set in Article 2(2) of this Regulation. 4.
For the purposes of paragraph 3, the contract shall be replaced (a) in the case referred to in (a) in the first subparagraph of paragraph 3, by the declaration, (b) in the case referred to in (b) in the first subparagraph of paragraph 3, by the declaration accompanied by a contract for delivery for distillation on the producer's behalf concluded between the producer and the distiller. 5.
Distillers shall pay producers the minimum purchase price referred to in paragraph 6 within three months of delivery of the wine, provided the producers have supplied the competent authority with the proof referred to in the third subparagraph of paragraph 1 of this Article within two months of delivery.
Distillers shall forward to the intervention agency, within time limits laid down: (a) details of the quantity, colour and actual alcoholic strength by volume of the wine in each delivery from each producer from whom they have received deliveries of wine, together with the number of the document provided for in Article 70 of Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999 used for the transport of the wine to the distiller's premises, (b) proof that the total quantity of wine stipulated in the contract or declaration has been distilled within the time allowed, (c) proof that they have paid the producer the purchase price referred to in paragraph 7 of this Article within the time allowed.
In the case referred to in paragraph 9, producers shall be required to supply only the proof referred to in (b) above.
Not later than the 10th of each month, distillers shall send the intervention agency a statement of the quantities of products distilled and products obtained during the previous month, the latter being broken down by category as indicated in Article 43 of this Regulation. 9.
If distillation is carried out by producers themselves in their capacity as distillers or by distillers acting on the producer's behalf, the information required under paragraph 8 shall be submitted to the competent intervention agency by the producer. 10.
Article 66 Advance payments 1.
The intervention agency shall pay advances no more than three months after presentation of proof that the security has been lodged, provided the contract has been approved. 2.
Article 67 EAGGF contribution to the cost of distillation operations 1.
Section II: Fortified wine Article 68 Processing into fortified wine 1.
In such cases, the only product which may be obtained by distilling such fortified wine shall be wine spirits. 2.
Article 69 Preparation of fortified wine 1.
In cases where the option referred to in Article 68(1) is exercised and where the wine is not fortified by or on behalf of a distiller, producers shall conclude a delivery contract with an approved maker of fortified wine and shall submit it for approval to the competent intervention agency.
However, in the case of producers who are approved as makers of fortified wine and who intend to fortify the wine for distillation themselves, the contract referred to in the first subparagraph shall be replaced by a declaration of delivery. 2.
Makers of fortified wine shall pay producers at least the minimum buying-in price fixed for distillations as provided for in Articles 27 to 30 of Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999 for the wine delivered.
The intervention agency shall release the security following presentation, within the time allowed: (a) of proof that the total quantity of wine fortified for distillation indicated in the contract or declaration has been distilled within the time allowed, and (b) of proof that the minimum purchase price referred to in Articles 27, 28, 29 and 30 of Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999 has been paid within the time allowed.
In cases covered by the second subparagraph of paragraph 1, the producer shall be required to supply the intervention agency only with the proof referred to in (a) above.
Article 70 Distillation in another Member State 1.
In cases covered by paragraph 1, makers of fortified wine shall not be required to lodge the security provided for in Article 69(4). 4.
Article 71 Special rules 1.
In cases covered by Article 69(1) of this Regulation, the contract or declaration of delivery for fortification for distillation shall be submitted to the competent intervention agency for approval not later than 31 December of the wine year concerned.
No later than the 10th of each month, makers of fortified wine for distillation shall send the intervention agency a statement of the quantities of wine delivered to them during the previous month. 4.
Subject to Article 69(4) of this Regulation, the security shall be released only if the documents referred to in that Article have been supplied to the competent intervention agency within 12 months of submission of the application. 6.
Section III: Administrative provisions Article 72 Force majeure 1.
In the circumstances referred to at (a) in the first subparagraph of paragraph 1, and where the producer's winery and the distillery are located in two different Member States, the intervention agencies of the two Member States concerned shall cooperate by directly exchanging information in order to implement paragraph 1.
Article 73 Supervision of distillation operations 1.
The analyses shall be performed by approved laboratories as referred to in Article 72 of Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999, which shall forward the results to the intervention agency of the Member State where distillation takes place.
In such cases, checks on the characteristics of the products as referred to in Article 65 shall be carried out in accordance with the detailed rules adopted by the Member State concerned. 4.
Article 74 Infringements of this Title 1.
The distiller concerned shall not be required to pay the price referred to, respectively, in Articles 27, 28, 29 and 30 of Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999 for the quantities of products referred to in paragraph 1. 3.
Without prejudice to Article 2 of this Regulation, should a producer or distiller fail to meet the requirements laid down by the Community rules for the distillation operation in question, for all or part of the products delivered for distillation: (a) no aid shall be due for the quantities concerned, (b) the distiller may not deliver the products obtained by distilling the quantities concerned to the intervention agency.
The intervention agency shall recover from the producer an amount equal to the aid paid to the distiller in cases where a producer does not meet the requirements laid down by the Community rules for the distillation operation in question, for one of the following reasons: (a) failure to present the harvest, production or stock declaration within the time allowed; (b) presentation of a harvest, production or stock declaration found by the competent authority of the Member State to be incomplete or inaccurate, where the missing or incorrect data are essential for application of the measure concerned; (c) failure to meet the obligations laid down in Article 37 of Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999, where the infringement is detected or notified to the distiller after the latter has paid the minimum price on the basis of previous declarations.
Article 75 Penalties 1.
Except in cases of force majeure, (a) where producers fail to fulfil their obligations under this Title or refuse to submit to checks, no aid shall be payable; (b) where distillers fail to fulfil one of their obligations other than those referred to in (a) above, the aid shall be reduced by an amount determined by the competent authority depending on the seriousness of the infringement. 2.
Section IV: Reduction of the buying-in price for wine provided for in Article 32 of Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999 Article 76 Reduction of the buying-in price for certain enriched wines 1.
The buying-in price for wine delivered for distillation under Articles 29 and 30 of Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999 shall be reduced by: - EUR 0.3626 in Zone A, - EUR 0.3019 in Zone B, - EUR 0.1811 in Zone C.
The reduction referred to in the first subparagraph shall not apply to: (a) wine delivered by producers located in regions where alcoholic strength may be increased only by the addition of must who forego all aid made available under Article 34 of Regulation (EEC) No 1493/1999 for the wine year concerned.
These producers shall present to the distiller a copy of a statement waiving entitlement to the aid concerned, stamped by the competent authority designated by the Member State; (b) wine taken into a distillery after the dates laid down for the various wine-growing zones in Annex V(G)(7) to Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999 and delivered by producers who provide the competent authorities with satisfactory evidence that during the wine year they have neither increased the alcoholic strength of their table wine by adding sucrose nor lodged an application for aid under Article 34 of that Regulation for their production; (c) wine and categories of wine for which the Member States do not authorise or have not authorised an increase in alcoholic strength for the wine year concerned. 2.
An amount equal to the reduction referred to in paragraph 1 shall be paid for the quantity of wine delivered for distillation as referred to in that paragraph to producers who apply to the competent authority before 1 August, either directly or through a distiller, and who have neither increased the alcoholic strength of their table wine production by adding sucrose nor applied for aid under Article 34 of Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999 for their production during the wine year concerned.
Producers who apply before 1 August and who have increased alcoholic strength by adding sucrose or have applied for the said aid during the wine year, but for less of their table wine production than the quantity delivered for all the relevant distillation operations during the wine year shall receive the amount indicated in the first subparagraph for the difference between the quantity of table wine of which they increased the alcoholic strength and the quantity they delivered for distillation.
Article 77 Reduction of the aid referred to in Article 81 Where wine is delivered for distillation as referred to in Article 76 of this Regulation and where the reduction has been applied to such wine, (a) the aid to be paid to the distiller, (b) the price to be paid to the distiller for delivery to the intervention agency under Article 30 of Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999 and (c) the EAGGF contribution to expenditure incurred by the intervention agency in taking over alcohol under Article 30 of Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999 shall be reduced by an amount equal to the reduction indicated in Article 76.
CHAPTER IV DISPOSAL OF ALCOHOL OBTAINED BY DISTILLATION UNDER CHAPTER I OF THIS TITLE AND, WHERE APPLICABLE, ARTICLE 30 OF REGULATION (EC) No 1493/1999 Article 78 Purpose and definitions 1.
This section lays down detailed rules for disposing of alcohol obtained by distillation under Articles 27, 28 and 30 of Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999, hereinafter referred to as %quot%alcohol%quot%.
Alcohol may be disposed of either for use in new industrial uses (subsection I), for use in third countries in the fuel sector only (subsection II), or for use as bio-ethanol in the Community (subsection III). 2.
Article 80 Opening tendering procedures The Commission, acting in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 75 of Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999, shall issue an invitation to tender for the disposal of alcohol obtained by distillation under Articles 27, 28 and 30 of that Regulation for new industrial uses.
Article 81 Notice of invitation to tender Notices issuing invitations to tender shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Article 82 Rules applicable to tenders 1.
Apart from the information specified in Article 97 of this Regulation, tenders shall indicate: (a) the quantity of alcohol to which they relate, broken down by vat and expressed in hectolitres of alcohol at 100 % vol., (b) the number(s) of the vat(s) in which the alcohol concerned is stored, the vats all being situated in the same Member State, (c) the precise industrial use of the alcohol, (d) the type of goods to be exported if the alcohol is intended for export to third countries in the form of manufactured goods. 2.
If a tenderer submits more than one tender per type of alcohol, end use or tendering procedure, none of those tenders shall be admissible. 4.
Tenders shall be valid only if proof is provided before the closing date for the submission of tenders that a tendering security has been lodged with the intervention agency concerned. 6.
Not more than two working days after the closing date for submission of tenders, the intervention agency concerned shall communicate to the Commission a list of the names of the tenderers whose tenders are eligible for consideration under Article 97 of this Regulation, the prices offered, the quantities requested, the locations and the types of alcohol concerned and the precise uses to be made of the alcohol.
Article 83 Award of contracts 1.
The Commission, acting in accordance with Article 75 of Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999, shall decide whether or not to award contracts in the light of the tenders submitted and, where appropriate, depending on the type of end use for which the alcohol is intended. 2.
The Commission shall draw up a list of the tenders accepted, listing the prices offered in decreasing order until the contracts awarded cover the entire quantity of alcohol specified in the notice of invitation to tender. 3.
When making its decision under paragraph 1 of this Article in cases referred to in the first subparagraph where some tenders cannot be met, the Commission may propose to the tenderers concerned that their tenders be accepted for a replacement quantity of alcohol of the same type.
Should several tenders propose the same price so that the quantity of alcohol tendered for exceeds the quantity covered by the tendering procedure, the intervention agency concerned shall award the quantity in question: (a) either in proportion to the quantities specified in the tenders concerned, (b) or by dividing that quantity among the tenderers by agreement with them, (c) or by drawing lots. 5.
Article 84 Statement of award 1.
Within two weeks following the date of receipt of the notification of award referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article and, where the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 is applied, within the two weeks following the date of issue of the statement of award, each successful tenderer shall: (a) obtain the statement of award referred to in paragraph 2 from the intervention agency, (b) provide the intervention agency concerned with proof that a performance security has been lodged to ensure that the alcohol in question is in fact used for the purposes specified in the tender.
Article 85 Removal of the alcohol 1.
The alcohol may be removed on presentation of a removal order issued by the intervention agency once the quantity to be removed has been paid for.
Ownership of the alcohol covered by a removal order shall be transferred on the date indicated in the order, which may not be more than five days after its date of issue, and the quantities concerned shall be deemed to have been removed on that date.
The removal order shall state the date by which the alcohol must be physically removed from the storehouse of the intervention agency concerned. 4.
Subsection II: Disposal of alcohol for use in third countries in the fuel sector only Article 86 Rules applicable to tendering procedures covered by this subsection The Commission, acting in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 75 of Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999, shall issue several invitations to tender every quarter, each relating to quantities of at least 50000 hectolitres of wine alcohol and, taken together, relating to not more than 600000 hectolitres of alcohol at 100 % vol., for export to certain third countries for final use in the fuel sector only.
Article 87 Notice of invitation to tender 1.
Each notice of invitation to tender shall relate to a single lot, although the alcohol constituting the lot may be located in several Member States. 3.
Article 88 Tenders 1.
Tenders must also include proof, dated after the notice of invitation to tender, that the tenderer has binding commitments to an operator in the fuel sector in one of the third countries listed in Article 86 of this Regulation who undertakes to dehydrate the awarded alcohol in one of those countries and to export it exclusively for use in the fuel sector. 4.
For the purposes of the tendering security, the primary requirements within the meaning of Article 20 of Commission Regulation (EEC) No 2220/85 shall be that tenders not be withdrawn after the closing date for their submission and that a security to ensure export and/or a performance guarantee be lodged.
Article 89 Award of contracts 1.
The Commission, acting in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 75 of Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999, shall decide as quickly as possible whether or not to award contracts in the light of the tenders submitted. 2.
The Commission shall: (a) inform tenderers in writing against a receipt if their tenders have not been accepted, (b) notify the Member States holding the alcohol and the successful tenderer of its decision to award the alcohol, (c) publish the results of the tendering procedure in a simplified form in the Official Journal of the European Communities. 4.
The tendering securities required under Article 88(5) of this Regulation shall be released where tenders are not accepted and once the successful tenderer has lodged in full both the export security and the performance guarantee for the tendering procedure concerned.
Article 90 Statement of award The intervention agency shall hold a statement of award at the disposal of successful tenderers certifying that their tender has been accepted.
Article 91 Removal of the alcohol 1.
The performance guarantee shall amount to EUR 30 per hectolitre of alcohol at 100 % vol. 4.
In either case, the successful tenderer shall inform the intervention agency and the Commission on the same day, in the manner specified in Annex V to this Regulation.
The alcohol may be removed on presentation of a removal order issued by the intervention agency holding the alcohol once the quantity to be removed has been paid for.
Each removal order shall cover a quantity of at least 2500 hectolitres, except in the case of the last removal in each Member State.
That date may be no more than five days later. 8.
Ownership of the alcohol covered by a removal order shall be transferred on the date indicated in the order, which may be no more than five days later, and the corresponding quantities shall be deemed to have been removed on that date.
All the alcohol must have been physically removed from the storehouses of each intervention agency concerned within six months. 11.
The alcohol must be fully used within two years from the date of first removal. 12.
Subsection III: Disposal for use as bio-ethanol in the Community Article 92 Rules applicable to disposal covered by this subsection 1.
Within three months of the decision referred to in Article 89 of this Regulation, the Commission, acting in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 75 of Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999, may start public sales with a view to disposing of the alcohol. 2.
Article 93 Public sale 1.
Unless the Commission decides otherwise in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 75 of Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999, a lot shall be made for each firm on the approved list and each firm on the list shall be allocated a lot.
Should a firm not accept the alcohol offered for sale, it must notify the Commission and the intervention agency thereof no more than 30 days after the date of publication of the notice of public sale of alcohol.
The alcohol shall be sold at the highest price awarded during the most recent tendering procedure as referred to in subsection II of Chapter III, plus an amount per hectolitre fixed in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 75 of Regulation (EC) No 14933/1999. 4.
Except where they have lodged a standing security, within 30 days of the date of the notification referred to in paragraph 2, purchasing firms shall supply proof that they have lodged a performance guarantee with the intervention agency concerned to ensure that the alcohol is used as bio-ethanol in the fuel sector. 6.
Subsection IV: General provisions and control arrangements Article 95 Rules applicable to alcohol 1.
With a view to drawing up notices of invitation to tender and public sale, the Commission shall request each Member State concerned to inform it of: (a) the quantity of alcohol, expressed in hectolitres of alcohol at 100 % vol., that may be offered for sale, (b) the type of alcohol concerned, (c) the quality of the lots of alcohol, laying down maximum and minimum values for the characteristics referred to in Article 96(4)(d)(i) and (ii) of this Regulation.
This prohibition shall not relate to alcohol in vats not covered by the notices of invitation to tender or public sale concerned and not specified in the Commission decision referred to in Articles 83 to 89 of this Regulation.
Article 96 Rules applicable to lots 1.
Article 97 General rules applicable to tenders 1.
To be eligible for consideration, tenders must be submitted in writing and must include, in addition to the specific information referred to in subsections I or II: (a) the reference number of the notice of invitation to tender, (b) the name and address of the tenderer, (c) the price proposed, expressed in euros per hectolitre of alcohol at 100 % vol., (d) an undertaking from tenderers to comply with all the rules applicable to the tendering procedure concerned, (e) a statement by tenderers to the effect that: (i) they waive all claims in respect of the quality and characteristics of the alcohol awarded to them, (ii) they agree to submit to any checks made on the destination and use of the alcohol, (iii) they accept that it is their responsibility to provide evidence that the alcohol is used as specified in the notice of invitation to tender. 2.
Article 98 Samples 1.
For disposal as referred to in subsection III, the sample may be obtained, for the same consideration, within 30 days of the notice of public sale. 2.
If a successful tenderer or approved firm finds, before the date set in Article 92, Article 85, Article 91 or Article 94 of this Regulation for removal of the lot of alcohol concerned, that a quantity of alcohol awarded is unsuitable for the uses planned owing to hidden defects that by their nature could not be discovered at the time when it was possible for a check to be made before the alcohol was awarded, the Commission may indicate a replacement quantity, in agreement with the relevant intervention agency, provided the latter confirms the tenderer's finding.
Article 99 Requirements applicable to denaturing and/or marking 1.
If such proof is not produced within 12 months after the date specified for the final use of the alcohol, EUR 96 per hectolitre shall be withheld on the quantities of alcohol lost over and above the limits specified in paragraph 2.
Article 101 Control arrangements 1.
The Commission shall send the Member State concerned any comments required to ensure that checks are effective. 3.
Article 102 Use of surveillance firms The notice of invitation to tender may stipulate that an international surveillance firm is to be used to check on the proper conduct of the tendering procedure, particularly the final destination and/or end use of the alcohol.
The cost of such services shall be borne by the successful tenderer, as shall the cost of analysis and verification pursuant to Article 99 of this Regulation.
TITLE IV FINAL PROVISIONS Article 103 Notifications to the Commission 1.
Article 104 Dates and time limits The periods, dates and time limits referred to in this Regulation shall be determined in accordance with Regulation (EEC, Euratom) No 1182/71.
Article 106 Entry into force This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
However, the following Regulations shall continue to apply until 31 August 2000 to products from the 1999/2000 wine year: - Regulation (EEC) No 1059/83, - Regulation (EEC) No 2640/88, - Regulation (EEC) No 2641/88, - Regulation (EEC) No 2721/88, - Regulation (EEC) No 2728/88, - Regulation (EEC) No 3105/88.
ANNEX III Definition of neutral alcohol referred to in Article 43 of this Regulation %gt%TABLE%gt% ANNEX IV Community analysis method for neutral alcohol For the purposes of this Annex: (a) the repeatability limit is the value below which the absolute difference between two single test results obtained under the same conditions (same operator, same apparatus, same laboratory and a short interval of time) may be expected to lie with a specified probability; (b) the reproducibility limit is the value below which the absolute difference between two single test results obtained under different conditions (different operators, different apparatus and/or different laboratories and/or different time) may be expected to lie with a specified probability.
Unless otherwise stated, the probability shall be 95 %.
