Article 2 This Decision shall apply in so far as the provisions of the Protocol fall within the scope of Part III, Title IV of the Treaty.
Article 3 The President of the Council is authorised to designate the person empowered to deposit the instrument of formal confirmation in order to bind the Community.
Done at Brussels, 24 July 2006.
GENERAL PROVISIONS Article 1 Relation with the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organised Crime 1.
The offences established in accordance with article 6 of this Protocol shall be regarded as offences established in accordance with the Convention.
Article 2 Statement of purpose The purpose of this Protocol is to prevent and combat the smuggling of migrants, as well as to promote cooperation among States Parties to that end, while protecting the rights of smuggled migrants.
Article 6 Criminalisation 1.
Each State Party shall also adopt such legislative and other measures as may be necessary to establish as criminal offences: (a) subject to the basic concepts of its legal system, attempting to commit an offence established in accordance with paragraph 1 of this article; (b) participating as an accomplice in an offence established in accordance with paragraph 1 (a), (b) (i) or (c) of this article and, subject to the basic concepts of its legal system, participating as an accomplice in an offence established in accordance with paragraph 1 (b) (ii) of this article; (c) organising or directing other persons to commit an offence established in accordance with paragraph 1 of this article. 3.
Each State Party shall adopt such legislative and other measures as may be necessary to establish as aggravating circumstances to the offences established in accordance with paragraph 1 (a), (b) (i) and (c) of this article and, subject to the basic concepts of its legal system, to the offences established in accordance with paragraph 2 (b) and (c) of this article, circumstances: (a) that endanger, or are likely to endanger, the lives or safety of the migrants concerned; or (b) that entail inhuman or degrading treatment, including for exploitation, of such migrants. 4.
SMUGGLING OF MIGRANTS BY SEA Article 7 Cooperation States Parties shall cooperate to the fullest extent possible to prevent and suppress the smuggling of migrants by sea, in accordance with the international law of the sea.
Article 8 Measures against the smuggling of migrants by sea 1.
A State Party that has taken any measure in accordance with paragraph 2 of this article shall promptly inform the flag State concerned of the results of that measure. 4.
A State Party shall respond expeditiously to a request from another State Party to determine whether a vessel that is claiming its registry or flying its flag is entitled to do so and to a request for authorisation made in accordance with paragraph 2 of this article. 5.
A flag State may, consistent with article 7 of this Protocol, subject its authorisation to conditions to be agreed by it and the requesting State, including conditions relating to responsibility and the extent of effective measures to be taken.
Article 9 Safeguard clauses 1.
Where a State Party takes measures against a vessel in accordance with article 8 of this Protocol, it shall: (a) ensure the safety and humane treatment of the persons on board; (b) take due account of the need not to endanger the security of the vessel or its cargo; (c) take due account of the need not to prejudice the commercial or legal interests of the flag State or any other interested State; (d) ensure, within available means, that any measure taken with regard to the vessel is environmentally sound. 2.
Where the grounds for measures taken pursuant to article 8 of this Protocol prove to be unfounded, the vessel shall be compensated for any loss or damage that may have been sustained, provided that the vessel has not committed any act justifying the measures taken. 3.
PREVENTION, COOPERATION AND OTHER MEASURES Article 10 Information 1.
Article 11 Border measures 1.
Each State Party shall take the necessary measures, in accordance with its domestic law, to provide for sanctions in cases of violation of the obligation set forth in paragraph 3 of this article. 5.
Each State Party shall consider taking measures that permit, in accordance with its domestic law, the denial of entry or revocation of visas of persons implicated in the commission of offences established in accordance with this Protocol. 6.
Without prejudice to article 27 of the Convention, States Parties shall consider strengthening cooperation among border control agencies by, inter alia, establishing and maintaining direct channels of communication.
Article 13 Legitimacy and validity of documents At the request of another State Party, a State Party shall, in accordance with its domestic law, verify within a reasonable time the legitimacy and validity of travel or identity documents issued or purported to have been issued in its name and suspected of being used for purposes of conduct set forth in article 6 of this Protocol.
Article 14 Training and technical cooperation 1.
States Parties shall provide or strengthen specialised training for immigration and other relevant officials in preventing the conduct set forth in article 6 of this Protocol and in the humane treatment of migrants who have been the object of such conduct, while respecting their rights as set forth in this Protocol. 2.
States Parties shall cooperate with each other and with competent international organisations, non-governmental organisations, other relevant organisations and other elements of civil society as appropriate to ensure that there is adequate personnel training in their territories to prevent, combat and eradicate the conduct set forth in article 6 of this Protocol and to protect the rights of migrants who have been the object of such conduct.
Such training shall include: (a) improving the security and quality of travel documents; (b) recognizing and detecting fraudulent travel or identity documents; (c) Gathering criminal intelligence, relating in particular to the identification of organised criminal groups known to be or suspected of being engaged in conduct set forth in article 6 of this Protocol, the methods used to transport smuggled migrants, the misuse of travel or identity documents for purposes of conduct set forth in article 6 and the means of concealment used in the smuggling of migrants; (d) improving procedures for detecting smuggled persons at conventional and non-conventional points of entry and exit; and (e) the humane treatment of migrants and the protection of their rights as set forth in this Protocol. 3.
States Parties with relevant expertise shall consider providing technical assistance to States that are frequently countries of origin or transit for persons who have been the object of conduct set forth in article 6 of this Protocol.
Article 15 Other prevention measures 1.
Each State Party shall take measures to ensure that it provides or strengthens information programmes to increase public awareness of the fact that the conduct set forth in article 6 of this Protocol is a criminal activity frequently perpetrated by organised criminal groups for profit and that it poses serious risks to the migrants concerned. 2.
In accordance with article 31 of the Convention, States Parties shall cooperate in the field of public information for the purpose of preventing potential migrants from falling victim to organised criminal groups. 3.
Article 16 Protection and assistance measures 1.
In implementing this Protocol, each State Party shall take, consistent with its obligations under international law, all appropriate measures, including legislation if necessary, to preserve and protect the rights of persons who have been the object of conduct set forth in article 6 of this Protocol as accorded under applicable international law, in particular the right to life and the right not to be subjected to torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. 2.
Each State Party shall take appropriate measures to afford migrants appropriate protection against violence that may be inflicted upon them, whether by individuals or groups, by reason of being the object of conduct set forth in article 6 of this Protocol. 3.
Each State Party shall afford appropriate assistance to migrants whose lives or safety are endangered by reason of being the object of conduct set forth in article 6 of this Protocol. 4.
In the case of the detention of a person who has been the object of conduct set forth in article 6 of this Protocol, each State Party shall comply with its obligations under the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations, [1] where applicable, including that of informing the person concerned without delay about the provisions concerning notification to and communication with consular officers.
Article 17 Agreements and arrangements States Parties shall consider the conclusion of bilateral or regional agreements or operational arrangements or understandings aimed at: (a) establishing the most appropriate and effective measures to prevent and combat the conduct set forth in article 6 of this Protocol; or (b) enhancing the provisions of this Protocol among themselves.
Article 18 Return of smuggled migrants 1.
Each State Party agrees to facilitate and accept, without undue or unreasonable delay, the return of a person who has been the object of conduct set forth in article 6 of this Protocol and who is its national or who has the right of permanent residence in its territory at the time of return. 2.
In order to facilitate the return of a person who has been the object of conduct set forth in article 6 of this Protocol and is without proper documentation, the State Party of which that person is a national or in which he or she has the right of permanent residence shall agree to issue, at the request of the receiving State Party, such travel documents or other authorisation as may be necessary to enable the person to travel to and re-enter its territory. 5.
Each State Party involved with the return of a person who has been the object of conduct set forth in article 6 of this Protocol shall take all appropriate measures to carry out the return in an orderly manner and with due regard for the safety and dignity of the person. 6.
States Parties may cooperate with relevant international organisations in the implementation of this article. 7.
This article shall be without prejudice to any right afforded to persons who have been the object of conduct set forth in article 6 of this Protocol by any domestic law of the receiving State Party. 8.
This article shall not affect the obligations entered into under any other applicable treaty, bilateral or multilateral, or any other applicable operational agreement or arrangement that governs, in whole or in part, the return of persons who have been the object of conduct set forth in article 6 of this Protocol.
FINAL PROVISIONS Article 19 Saving clause 1.
The measures set forth in this Protocol shall be interpreted and applied in a way that is not discriminatory to persons on the ground that they are the object of conduct set forth in article 6 of this Protocol.
Article 20 Settlement of disputes 1.
Each State Party may, at the time of signature, ratification, acceptance or approval of or accession to this Protocol, declare that it does not consider itself bound by paragraph 2 of this article.
The other States Parties shall not be bound by paragraph 2 of this article with respect to any State Party that has made such a reservation. 4.
Any State Party that has made a reservation in accordance with paragraph 3 of this article may at any time withdraw that reservation by notification to the Secretary-General of the United Nations.
Article 21 Signature, ratification, acceptance, approval and accession 1.
This Protocol shall be open to all States for signature from 12 to 15 December 2000 in Palermo, Italy, and thereafter at United Nations Headquarters in New York until 12 December 2002. 2.
This Protocol shall also be open for signature by regional economic integration organisations provided that at least one member State of such organisation has signed this Protocol in accordance with paragraph 1 of this article. 3.
This Protocol is subject to ratification, acceptance or approval.
Such organisation shall also inform the depositary of any relevant modification in the extent of its competence. 4.
This Protocol is open for accession by any State or any regional economic integration organisation of which at least one Member State is a Party to this Protocol.
Article 22 Entry into force 1.
For each State or regional economic integration organisation ratifying, accepting, approving or acceding to this Protocol after the deposit of the 40th instrument of such action, this Protocol shall enter into force on the 30th day after the date of deposit by such State or organisation of the relevant instrument or on the date this Protocol enters into force pursuant to paragraph 1 of this article, whichever is the later.
An amendment adopted in accordance with paragraph 1 of this article is subject to ratification, acceptance or approval by States Parties. 4.
An amendment adopted in accordance with paragraph 1 of this article shall enter into force in respect of a State Party 90 days after the date of the deposit with the Secretary-General of the United Nations of an instrument of ratification, acceptance or approval of such amendment. 5.
Article 24 Denunciation 1.
Article 25 Depositary and languages 1.
The Secretary-General of the United Nations is designated depositary of this Protocol. 2.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned plenipotentiaries, being duly authorised thereto by their respective Governments, have signed this Protocol. [1] Ibid., vol. 596, Nos 8638 to 8640. -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX II Declaration concerning the competence of the European Community with regard to matters governed by the Protocol Against the Smuggling of Migrants by Land, Air and Sea, supplementing the United Nations Convention Against Transnational Organised Crime Article 21(3) of the Protocol provides that the instrument of accession of a regional economic integration organisation shall contain a declaration specifying the matters governed by the Protocol in respect of which competence has been transferred to the organisation by its Member States which are Parties to the Protocol.
