Council Regulation (EC) No 2604/2000 of 27 November 2000 imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty and collecting definitively the provisional duty imposed on imports of certain polyethylene terephthalate originating in India, Indonesia, Malaysia, the Republic of Korea, Taiwan and Thailand Council Regulation (EC) No 2604/2000 of 27 November 2000 imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty and collecting definitively the provisional duty imposed on imports of certain polyethylene terephthalate originating in India, Indonesia, Malaysia, the Republic of Korea, Taiwan and Thailand THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, Having regard to Council Regulation (EC) No 384/96 of 22 December 1995 on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the European Community(1), and in particular Articles 9 and 10(2) thereof, Having regard to the proposal submitted by the Commission after consulting the Advisory Committee, Whereas: A.
PROVISIONAL MEASURES (1) The Commission, by Regulation (EC) No 1742/2000(2), (%quot%provisional Regulation%quot%), imposed provisional anti-dumping duties on imports of certain polyethylene terephthalate originating in India, Indonesia, Malaysia, the Republic of Korea, Taiwan and Thailand. (2) In the parallel anti-subsidy proceeding, the Commission also imposed, by Regulation (EC) No 1741/2000(3) a provisional countervailing duty on imports of certain polyethylene terephthalate originating in India, Malaysia, Taiwan and Thailand. (3) It is recalled that the investigation of dumping and injury covered the period from 1 October 1998 to 30 September 1999 (%quot%IP%quot%).
In accordance with the provisions of Article 20(1) of Regulation (EC) No 384/96 (the %quot%basic Regulation%quot%), all interested parties who requested a hearing were granted an opportunity to be heard by the Commission. (5) The Commission continued to seek and verify all information deemed necessary for the definitive findings. (6) An additional verification visit was carried out at the premises of the following company related to a Korean exporting producer which had replied to the questionnaire: - SK Global Belgium NV (Antwerp). (7) All parties were informed of the essential facts and considerations on the basis of which it was intended to recommend the imposition of definitive anti-dumping duties and the definitive collection of amounts secured by way of provisional duties.
It considered that the use of Article 18 was not warranted and that the rejection of its selling, general and administrative (%quot%SG%amp% A%quot%) expenses was an unduly harsh measure. (13) The Commission re-examined all information submitted by the company in its response to the questionnaire and during the on-the-spot verification.
Normal value based on domestic sales (15) Two Taiwanese companies requested that the determination of the sales made in the ordinary course of trade should be made on a quarterly basis and not on a yearly basis.
The reason advanced to support this claim was that during the IP there were significant variations in costs and prices of the product concerned, mainly due to changes in the price of raw materials. (16) Fluctuations in costs and prices during the IP are almost inevitable in any anti-dumping investigation.
It is considered that the particular situation of the two companies that made the request does not justify the deviation from the methodology used for all companies concerned by the present proceeding.
Therefore, the Commission would not have been, at this late stage of the investigation in a position to verify the substantial amount of information necessary to modify the methodology for establishing the profitability of domestic sales. (18) One Korean company disputed the Commission's methodology for allocating the amount of SG%amp% A as set out in recital 50 of the provisional Regulation. (19) The exporting producer, after disclosure of the provisional findings presented new figures, but despite a request by the Commission, did not provide any evidence or explanation of the allocation methodology used.
Constructed normal value (20) One Indonesian exporting producer contested the profit margin used in order to construct normal value for one type of PET it had exported to the Community. (21) The Commission's approach of using the actual profit margin on sales of other types of PET made in the ordinary course of trade by this exporting producer on its domestic market is fully in line with Article 2(6) of the basic Regulation (see recital 21 of the provisional Regulation).
Therefore the provisional findings are confirmed. (22) One of the Malaysian exporting producers challenged the turnover based methodology applied by the Commission for the reallocation of certain SG%amp% A expenses used for the purpose of constructing normal value in the provisional Regulation. (23) The verification revealed that the allocation key applied by the company in its questionnaire response for certain expenses was inaccurate and inappropriate and had not been used historically.
The approach adopted on this matter in the provisional Regulation is thus confirmed. (24) Two Indonesian exporting producers argued that normal values for companies with no sales in the ordinary course of trade on the domestic market should be based, in accordance with Article 2(1) of the basic Regulation, on domestic sales prices of another company rather than on a constructed normal value. (25) In recital 19 of the provisional Regulation, it was already explained why domestic sales prices of another company could not be used.
The Commission nevertheless re-examined all information submitted and the methodology used for provisional measures is consequently confirmed. (26) One Korean company argued that the Commission should not have used its own SG%amp% A expenses when constructing normal value, as the domestic sales to which these expenses related were not made in the ordinary course of trade.
The company argued that this was in contradiction with Article 2(6) of the basic Regulation. (27) It is the Commission's consistent practice, as pointed out also in recital 21 of the provisional Regulation, to consider the actual domestic SG%amp% A expenses reliable if the total domestic sales volume of the company concerned is representative when compared to the volume of export sales to the Community.
Therefore the provisional findings are confirmed. (28) One Taiwanese company requested that the cost of production for the month of September 1999 should not be taken into consideration due to the earthquake which occurred in Taiwan. (29) However, irrespective of the fact whether or not an adjustment as such can be granted for earthquakes or similar cases of force majeure, the company could not demonstrate whether and to what extent the earthquake affected the costs.
Consequently, the amount of SG%amp% A expenses deducted was determined on the basis of turnover. (32) As regards the profit margin deducted, recital 23 of the provisional Regulation sets out that a profit margin of 5 % was considered to be reasonable for the function performed by a trader.
Comparison (33) One Indonesian exporting producer complained that the Commission had ignored its allowances claimed on normal value. (34) For this company, the Commission constructed the normal value in accordance with Article 2(3) of the basic Regulation.
The amounts for SG%amp% A expenses and for profits were, in accordance with Article 2(6)(a), determined on the basis of the weighted average of the actual amounts determined for other exporting producers subject to investigation in respect of production and sales of the like product in Indonesia.
Physical characteristics (35) One of the Malaysian exporting producers claimed that the type of PET sold on the domestic market had a higher market value than the type of PET exported to the Community and that therefore, the normal value should be adjusted accordingly. (36) However, the exporting producer did not claim any adjustment for physical differences in either the questionnaire response or during the on-the-spot verification.
The exporter further claimed that the adjustment should have been granted regardless of whether duties were paid on importation of raw materials and regardless of whether those raw materials were physically incorporated in the like product sold on the domestic market. (38) According to Article 2(10)(b) of the basic Regulation an adjustment on the normal value can only be granted for import duties borne by the like product and by raw materials physically incorporated therein, when intended for consumption in the exporting country and refunded (or not collected) in respect of the product exported to the Community.
Moreover, the actual amount of the relevant import charges paid on raw materials for the PET sold on the domestic market during the IP and refunded or not collected when exporting the product concerned to the Community was not provided by the company in its questionnaire response or during the on-the-spot verification visit.
It follows that the company could not demonstrate that the import duties refunded were included in the domestic price.
Consequently, it could not be established that price comparability was affected and the claim had to be rejected. (39) The same Indian exporting producer claimed finally that the provisional findings of the anti-dumping investigation were in contradiction with the provisional findings in the parallel anti-subsidy proceeding.
It was argued that it would be incorrect to reject the company's claim for a duty drawback adjustment in the context of the anti-dumping investigation, when at the same time the DEPB scheme from which the company benefits had been considered as an export subsidy in the context of the anti-subsidy proceeding. (40) This argument cannot be accepted.
In the absence of any new evidence which can support the claim of the exporting producer, the approach followed in recital 58 of the provisional Regulation is confirmed. (44) Another Korean company objected to the Commission's decision to reject the duty drawback adjustments in its entirety (see recital 58 of the provisional Regulation). (45) In the light of the explanations provided by the company after the publication of the provisional Regulation, and considering the information collected during the investigation, the Commission could re-calculate the amount of the allowance for duty drawback in order to reflect the duty paid for raw materials imported during the IP.
It was argued that although the company was exempted from sales taxes during the IP, the invoice price charged to the customers was an all inclusive price and that sales taxes were actually collected from customers and subsequently paid to the government. (47) The information presented by the producer after the imposition of the provisional measures contradicts the information collected and verified on-the-spot on which the provisional findings were based.
Level of trade (48) One Malaysian exporting producer reiterated its claim for an adjustment for differences in the level of trade between sales of the product concerned on the domestic and export markets. (49) In the absence of any evidence showing consistent and distinct differences in the functions and prices of the seller for the allegedly different levels of trade on the domestic market of the exporting country the provisional findings, as described in recital 69 of the provisional Regulation, are confirmed.
Credit costs (50) One Malaysian exporting producer claimed that no account had been taken of the credit costs on domestic sales transactions during the IP. (51) In the absence of a substantiated claim for an adjustment for differences in credit costs within the time limits the claim could not be verified and should thus be rejected. (52) The other Malaysian exporting producer claimed that the interest rate applied for the calculation of credit costs on the export side in the provisional Regulation was incorrect. (53) The provisional findings pertaining to this issue have been reviewed and it has been concluded that the interest rate applied by the company in its questionnaire response was indeed more appropriate and the calculations have been revised accordingly.
Discounts and rebates (54) One Indian exporting producer reiterated its claim that the normal value ought to be adjusted by the amount of a %quot%loyalty discount%quot% granted to certain customers on the domestic market. (55) It was found that the discount in question was payable after the IP if and when specific conditions had been fulfilled.
Handling cost (56) A clerical error was noted in the calculation of the adjustment to be granted for handling charges on the export side for one Indian exporting producer.
Others (57) One Indian exporting producer challenged the grounds on which its claim for an allowance for salesmen's salaries on both the domestic and export markets was rejected and provided new information in support of its claim. (58) However, the information or evidence in question, although specifically requested in the questionnaire, was not made available until well after the on-the-spot verification had taken place.
Dumping margin for companies investigated (59) One Korean exporting producer claimed that the Commission departed from the rule contained in Article 2(11) of the basic Regulation by comparing the weighted average normal value with the individual export prices in order to calculate the dumping margin.
Furthermore, it claimed that such variations resulted from differences in the conditions of competition in the Community market and not from the intention of practising targeted dumping. (60) For the provisional determination the Commission considered that the method of calculation used for the other exporting producers (see recital 60 of the provisional Regulation) would not, in the particular case of this company, have reflected the full degree of dumping being practised.
Consequently the normal value established on a weighted average basis was compared to the prices of all individual export transactions to the Community. (61) The methodology used by the Commission to compare the weighted average normal value with individual export prices fully complies with the rule set out in Article 2(11) of the basic Regulation.
The provisional findings are thus confirmed. (63) One Taiwanese company requested that the comparison of constructed normal value and export prices be made on a monthly basis alleging that during the IP there were significant variations in costs and prices due to the changes in prices for raw material. (64) Fluctuations in costs and prices during the IP are almost inevitable in an anti-dumping investigation.
It is considered that the particular situation of the company that made the request does not justify the deviation from the methodology used for all companies concerned by the present proceeding.
Therefore, the dumping margin for the company Nan Ya Plastics Corp.
These errors have been corrected and the respective dumping margins have been modified accordingly. (69) Considering the above and in the absence of other comments by the interested parties it was decided to apply the methods set out in the provisional Regulation for cooperating and non cooperating companies. (70) The comparison showed the existence of a de minimis dumping margin for the exports of the product concerned to the Community made by one Korean company during the IP. (71) The definitive dumping margins, expressed as a percentage of the cif import price at the Community border, are: %gt%TABLE%gt% E.
COMMUNITY INDUSTRY (72) In the absence of any new information submitted with respect to the definition of the Community industry, the findings as set out in recitals 87 to 92 of the provisional Regulation are confirmed.
Preliminary remarks (73) Certain interested parties questioned the use of data submitted by the Community industry only for the period 1996 onwards whilst the developments in the market prior to this period were based on independent market research information. (74) The Commission had considered that the data submitted by the Community industry for the year 1995 could not be used due to the split of Kodak and Eastman in 1995 and to the restructuring of the activities of Shell.
Neither Shell nor Eastman was able to provide complete figures for this year. (75) However, the Commission had considered it essential to give an overview of the shortage crisis that occurred in the Community market in 1995 in view of the impact of this event on both the prices and profitability of the Community industry.
As such the use of independent market research information was considered appropriate in establishing the necessary background data for the evaluation of the situation of the Community industry during the analysis period, as explained in recital 97 of the provisional Regulation. 2.
Consumption (76) In the absence of any new information submitted to the contrary, the findings concerning the consumption of the product concerned in the Community as detailed in recitals 100 and 101 of the provisional Regulation are confirmed. 3.
This argument had already been examined at recital 106 of the provisional Regulation and as no new information was submitted the Commission cannot accept this claim. (79) The conclusion that imports originating in Indonesia should be assessed cumulatively with imports from the other countries concerned is therefore confirmed. 4.
Factors examined in the provisional Regulation - Investments: (81) It was found that some investments made by a cooperating Community producer had not been taken into account at the provisional stage.
After the inclusion of these figures, the investment situation does not change the trend previously established. (82) Some interested parties argued that the extent of the investments made in 1998 by the Community industry indicated that it was in good financial health.
Others remarked that if the level of investments was low during the IP, this was a consequence of the previous years in which the Community industry had registered losses and that this could not be attributed to the effect of the dumped imports during the IP. (83) In this respect, the investigation has clearly shown that investment expenditure made in 1997, 1998 and in the IP was mostly a consequence of decisions taken in 1995 and 1996 when prospects in the PET sector were good (although losses were incurred in 1996 this situation was considered to be temporary).
As stated in recital 124 of the provisional Regulation, it is confirmed that, as a consequence of the further deterioration of its financial situation due to injurious dumping during the IP, the Community industry has not planned any significant expansion in capacity to meet increases in future demand. - Wages and stocks: (84) Wages and stocks were also examined, however, wages were not considered to be a relevant factor given that their share in the overall costs is small and remained stable over the analysis period.
Other factors examined (86) The situation of the Community industry regarding the following indicators was further examined. - Ability to raise capital: (87) As already mentioned in the provisional Regulation, the level of losses experienced during the IP was such that no new investment plan could be agreed during the IP.
As established in the provisional Regulation, the increase in sales and the recovery of market share in the IP, after a loss of 5 percentage points between 1997 and 1998, occurred when the Community industry considerably decreased its prices to match those of dumped imports.
In particular these parties underlined the rapid and substantial rise in Community industry PET prices in relation to the increase in the cost of raw materials.
It was found that the prices for PET sales made by the Community industry on the Community market showed a continued increase.
This increase was more rapid than the increase in costs (around 20 %) leading to an improvement of the Community industry's financial situation.
Conclusion on injury (99) Given that no other arguments were received regarding the injury suffered by the Community industry, the conclusion that the Community industry has suffered material injury within the meaning of Article 3 of the basic Regulation, as set out in recitals 125 to 128 of the provisional Regulation, is hereby confirmed.
CAUSATION (100) Several interested parties continued to argue that the Commission wrongly concluded that imports originating in the countries concerned were the cause of the injury suffered by the Community industry whereas, in their opinion, the situation of this industry and the level of prices on the Community market were due to a combination of other factors.
In this context, they reiterated the points already raised at the provisional stage (including the price of raw materials, the situation of over capacity, the competition between PET producers). (101) Given that no other arguments were received regarding the cause of the injury suffered by the Community industry, the conclusion that imports of PET from the countries concerned had caused injury to the Community industry as stated in recital 148 of the provisional Regulation is hereby confirmed.
COMMUNITY INTEREST 1.
Foreseeable impact of measures on the users (108) After taking into account the new figures provided, the situation of the users, which supplied fully quantified information, was as follows: %gt%TABLE%gt% Impact on converters (109) It was estimated that the imposition of both the anti-dumping and countervailing measures proposed (of which 15 % is to be attributed to countervailing measures only), taking into account their volumes of PET purchases originating in the countries concerned during the IP, would result in an increase of 4 % in the cost of production of converters making preforms and bottles (using PET prices of July 2000, this would be 2 %).
The direct impact of measures on the return on sales of these companies is therefore estimated to be limited. (111) The main risk that was re-iterated by these users relates to a possible relocation of converters' activities to countries outside the Community.
In recital 179 of the provisional Regulation it was estimated that additional costs relating to transport only would represent an increase of 2,5 % in costs.
Impact on bottlers of non-alcoholic drinks (112) It was estimated that the imposition of both the anti-dumping and countervailing measures proposed, taking into account their volumes of PET purchases originating in the countries concerned during the IP, as well as the fact that most of the increase in the cost of preforms is going to passed on them, would result in an average increase of less than 0,9 % in the cost of production of bottlers of non-alcoholic drinks (using PET prices of July 2000 this would be around 0,4 %). (113) This increase in costs of production is estimated to have a limited impact on large companies that sell branded drinks since those companies are very profitable.
The retail price of drinks (115) It was found that the prices of bottled water and soft drinks have increased at a relatively constant rate of 1-2 % per year over the past decade (Eurostat retail price index statistics).
Conclusions on Community interest (118) On the basis of the additional information obtained from users, it is concluded that the impact of the measures on users would be limited.
As converters are able to pass most of the increase in costs on to their clients, the consolidated impact of measures on the producers of drinks is estimated to be marginal on the overall profitability of this sector. (119) In addition, it is confirmed that the delocalisation of the production of preforms outside the Community is not likely, that retail prices of non-alcoholic drinks are not usually much affected by fluctuations in PET prices and that imposition of measures is clearly in the interest of the Community industry and of the upstream industries. (120) Given that no other arguments were received regarding Community interest, the conclusion that there are no compelling reasons not to impose measures, as set out in recital 202 is hereby confirmed.
DEFINITIVE COURSE OF ACTION (121) In view of the conclusions reached regarding dumping, injury, causation and Community interest, it is considered that definitive anti-dumping measures should be taken in order to prevent further injury being caused to the Community by dumped imports originating in the concerned countries. 1.
Injury elimination level (122) In the absence of any new information, the methodology used for establishing the injury margin as described in recital 206 of the provisional Regulation is hereby confirmed. 2.
Form and level of the duties (123) In the absence of any new information, the methodology used for establishing the anti-dumping duty rates in conjunction with the relevant countervailing duty rates established in the parallel anti-subsidy investigation, as described in recitals 209 to 213 of the provisional Regulation is hereby confirmed. (124) In order to avoid that fluctuations in PET prices caused by fluctuations in crude oil prices should result in higher duties being collected, it is considered appropriate that duties in the form of a specific amount per tonne should be imposed.
These amounts result from the application of the anti-dumping duty rate to the cif export prices used for the calculation of the injury elimination level during the IP. (125) The proposed anti-dumping duties are the following: India %gt%TABLE%gt% (126) Elque Polyesters Limited and Futura Polymer Limited participated in the parallel anti-subsidy proceeding but noting the present anti-dumping investigation since they did not export to the Community.
Definitive collection of provisional duties (128) In view of the magnitude of the dumping found for the exporting producers, and in the light of the seriousness of the injury caused to the Community industry, it is considered necessary that the amounts secured by way of provisional anti-dumping duties shall be collected at the rate of the duty definitively imposed.
Undertakings (129) Subsequent to the imposition of provisional anti-dumping measures, exporting producers in India and Indonesia offered price undertakings in accordance with Article 8(1) of the basic Regulation. (130) The Commission considers that the undertakings offered by Reliance Industries Limited, Pearl Engineering Polymers Limited and P.T.
A definitive anti-dumping duty is hereby imposed on imports of polyethylene terephthalate with a coefficient of viscosity of 78ml/g or higher, according to DIN (Deutsche Industrienorm) 53728, falling within CN codes 3907 60 20 and ex 3907 60 80 (TARIC code 3907 60 80 10). 2.
Notwithstanding paragraph 1, the definitive duty shall not apply to imports released for free circulation in accordance with the provisions of Article 2. 6.
Imports accompanied by an %quot%Undertaking Invoice%quot% shall be declared under the following TARIC additional codes: %gt%TABLE%gt% Article 3 The amounts secured by way of provisional anti-dumping duties pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 1742/2000 on imports of certain polyethylene terephthalate originating in India, Indonesia, Malaysia, the Republic of Korea, Taiwan and Thailand shall be collected at the rate of the duty definitively imposed.
Article 4 This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Done at Brussels, 27 November 2000.
