Such measures were introduced by Council Directive 92/109/EEC of 14 December 1992 on the manufacture and the placing on the market of certain substances used in the illicit manufacture of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances(6).
To better ensure that harmonised rules are applied at the same time in all Member States, a regulation is considered to be more adequate than the current Directive. (4) In the context of the enlargement of the European Union, it is important to replace Directive 92/109/EEC by a regulation, as each modification of that Directive and its Annexes would trigger national implementation measures in 25 Member States. (5) By decisions taken at its 35th session in 1992, the United Nations Commission on Narcotic Drugs included additional substances in the tables of the Annex to the United Nations Convention.
The detailed rules concerning the customer declaration should be laid down in Annex III. (10) Measures should be adopted to encourage operators to notify the competent authorities of suspect transactions involving scheduled substances listed in Annex I. (11) Measures should be adopted in order to guarantee better control of intra-Community trade in scheduled substances listed in Annex I. (12) All transactions leading to the placing on the market of scheduled substances of categories 1 and 2 of Annex I should be properly documented.
Operators should notify the competent authorities of any suspect transactions involving the substances listed in Annex I.
Therefore, a more flexible mechanism at Community level should be established whereby the competent authorities in the Member States are notified of such transactions. (14) The introduction of a cooperation procedure is provided for in the European Union action plan against drugs approved by the European Council of Santa Maria da Feira on 19 and 20 June 2000.
Article 3 Requirements for the placing on the market of scheduled substances 1.
Any operator holding a licence referred to in paragraph 2 shall supply scheduled substances of category 1 of Annex I only to natural or legal persons who hold such a licence and have signed a customer declaration as provided for in Article 4(1). 4.
Article 4 Customer declaration 1.
This declaration shall conform to the model set out in point 1 of Annex III.
Such copy must always accompany category 1 substances being moved within the Community and must be presented on request to the authorities responsible for checking vehicle contents during transport operations.
The documentation must also contain a customer declaration as referred to in Article 4. 4.
Article 6 Exemptions The obligations according to Articles 3, 4 and 5 shall not apply to transactions involving scheduled substances of category 2 of Annex I where the quantities involved do not exceed those indicated in Annex II over a period of one year.
Article 7 Labelling Operators shall ensure that labels are affixed to scheduled substances of categories 1 and 2 of Annex I before they are supplied.
Article 8 Notification of the competent authorities 1.
Article 10 Powers and obligations of competent authorities 1.
In order to ensure the correct application of Articles 3 to 8, each Member State shall adopt the measures necessary to enable its competent authorities to perform their control and monitoring duties, and in particular: (a) to obtain information on any orders for scheduled substances or operations involving scheduled substances; (b) to enter operators' business premises in order to obtain evidence of irregularities; (c) where necessary, to detain consignments that fail to comply with this Regulation. 2.
Article 11 Cooperation between the Member States and the Commission 1.
The competent authority or authorities designated under paragraph 1 of this Article shall act as competent authorities within the meaning of Article 2(2) of Regulation (EC) No 515/97.
Article 12 Penalties The Member State shall lay down the rules on penalties applicable for infringement of the provisions of this Regulation and shall take all measures necessary to ensure that they are implemented.
Article 13 Communications from Member States 1.
Article 15 Committee 1.
The Commission shall be assisted by the committee set up by Article 10 of Regulation (EEC) No 3677/90. 2.
Article 16 Information about measures adopted by Member States Each Member State shall inform the Commission of the measures it adopts pursuant to this Regulation, and in particular of the measures adopted pursuant to Articles 10 and 12.
Article 17 Repeals 1.
Article 18 Entry into force This Regulation shall enter into force on 18 August 2005, except for Articles 9, 14 and 15, which shall enter into force on the day of publication of this Regulation in the Official Journal of the European Union, in order to permit the adoption of the measures provided for in those Articles.
Such measures shall enter into force at the earliest on 18 August 2005.
Done at Strasbourg, 11 February 2004.
Cox For the Council The President M.
Model declaration relating to individual transactions (category 1 or 2) %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2004047EN.000902.TIF%quot%%gt% 2.
Model declaration relating to multiple transactions (category 2) %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2004047EN.001001.TIF%quot%%gt%
