Member States shall ensure that the confirmation of classical swine fever is based on: (a) the detection of clinical signs and post-mortem lesions of disease; (b) the detection of virus, antigen or genome in samples of pig tissues, organs, blood or excreta; (c) the demonstration of a specific antibody response in blood samples, in accordance with the procedures, sampling methods and criteria for evaluation of the results of laboratory tests laid down in the Manual annexed to this Decision. 2.
The sensitivity and specificity of these modified or different tests must be evaluated in the framework of the periodic comparative tests organised by the Community Reference Laboratory for classical swine fever.
For the Commission David Byrne Member of the Commission (1) OJ L 316, 1.12.2001, p. 5. (2) OJ L 47, 21.2.1980, p. 11.
ANNEX CLASSICAL SWINE FEVER DIAGNOSTIC MANUAL CHAPTER I Introduction, objectives and definitions 1.
For the purpose of this Manual, in addition to the definitions referred to in Article 2 of Directive 2001/89/EC, the following definitions shall apply: (a) %quot%suspected holding%quot% means any pig holding which contains one or more pigs suspected of being infected with classical swine fever virus or a contact holding as defined in Article 2(v) of Directive 2001/89/EC; (b) %quot%singleton reactors%quot% means any pig which yields a positive result in serological tests for classical swine fever but which has no history of contact with classical swine fever virus and from which there is no evidence of spread of infection to in-contact pigs(2); (c) %quot%epidemiological sub-unit%quot% or %quot%sub-unit%quot% means the building, place or land nearby in which groups of pigs within a holding are kept in such a way that they have frequent direct or indirect contact one to the other but, in the meantime, they are kept separated from other pigs kept in the same holding; (d) %quot%in-contact pigs%quot% means the pigs which lived in a holding in direct contact with one or more pigs suspected to be infected with classical swine fever virus within the last 21 days.
CHAPTER II Description of classical swine fever with emphasis on differential diagnosis A.
A constant finding is fever.
Chronic form 1.
Initial signs of a chronic infection are similar to the acute infection.
Member States shall ensure that appropriate clinical examinations, sampling and laboratory investigations are carried out in suspected holdings to confirm or exclude classical swine fever, in accordance with the guidelines and procedures laid down in subparagraphs 2 to 7.
In case of suspicion of classical swine fever in pigs in a slaughterhouse or means of transport, the guidelines and procedures laid down in subparagraphs 2 to 7 shall also apply mutatis mutandis. 2.
When an official veterinarian visits a suspected holding to confirm or rule out classical swine fever: - a check of the production and health records of the holding must be carried out, if these records are available; - an inspection in each sub-unit of the holding must be carried out to select the pigs to be clinically examined.
The clinical examination must include the taking of body temperature and must primarily concern the following pigs or group of pigs: - sick or anorexic pigs; - pigs recently recovered from disease; - pigs recently introduced from confirmed outbreaks or from other suspected sources; - pigs kept in sub-units recently visited by external visitors which had a recent close contact with classical swine fever suspected or infected pigs or for which other particularly risky contacts with a potential source of classical swine fever virus have been identified; - pigs already sampled and serologically tested for classical swine fever, in case the results of these tests do not allow to rule out classical swine fever, and in-contact pigs.
The minimum number of pigs to be examined must allow for the detection of fever if it occurs at a prevalence of 10 % with 95 % confidence in these sub-units.
However, in case of: - breeding sows, the minimum number of sows to be examined must allow for the detection of fever if it occurs at a prevalence of 5 % with 95 % confidence; - at semen collection centres, all boars must be examined. 4.
If these examinations have not shown lesions suggesting classical swine fever but, due to the epidemiological situation, further investigations are deemed necessary: - a clinical examination, as laid down in subparagraph 3, and blood sampling as laid down in subparagraph 5 must be carried out in the sub-unit where the dead or moribund pigs were kept; and - post-mortem examinations may be carried on 3 to 4 in-contact pigs.
When post-mortem examinations are carried out the competent authority must ensure that: - the necessary precautions and hygienic measures are taken to prevent any disease spread; and, - in case of moribund pigs, they are killed in a humane way in accordance with Council Directive 93/119/EEC. 5.
If further clinical signs or lesions that may suggest classical swine fever are detected in a suspected holding, but the competent authority deems that these findings are not sufficient to confirm an outbreak of classical swine fever and that laboratory tests are therefore necessary, blood samples for laboratory tests must be taken from the suspected pigs and from other pigs in each sub-unit in which the suspected pigs are kept, in accordance with the procedures laid down below.
The minimum number of samples to be taken for serological tests must allow for the detection of 10 % seroprevalence with 95 % confidence in the sub-unit in question.
However, in the case of: - breeding sows, the minimum number of sows to be sampled must allow for the detection of 5 % seroprevalence with 95 % confidence(6); - a semen collection centre, blood samples must be taken from all boars.
The minimum number of pigs to be sampled must allow for the detection of 10 % seroprevalence with 95 % confidence in pigs in each sub-unit of the holding(7).
In order that classical swine fever may be confirmed or ruled out and additional epidemiological information is gained, when pigs are killed as a preventive measure on a suspected holding in accordance with the provisions of Article 4(3)(a) or Article 7(2) of Directive 2001/89/EC, blood samples for serological tests as well as blood or tonsils samples for virological tests must be taken in accordance with the procedure laid down in subparagraph 2. 2.
Sampling must primarily concern: - pigs showing signs or post-mortem lesions suggesting classical swine fever and their in-contact pigs; - other pigs which might have had risky contacts with infected or suspected pigs or which are suspected to have been contaminated with classical swine fever virus.
In this case, the minimum number of samples to be taken for serological tests must allow for the detection of 10 % seroprevalence with 95 % confidence in the sub-unit in question.
However, in the case of: - breeding sows, the minimum number of sows to be sampled must allow for the detection of 5 % seroprevalence with 95 % confidence(9); - a semen collection centre, blood samples must be taken from all boars.
In the case of pigs to be moved to another holding, in addition to the investigations to be carried out in accordance with subparagraph 1, a clinical examination of pigs must be carried out in each sub-unit of the holding in which the pigs to be moved are kept.
The minimum number of pigs to be checked must allow for the detection of fever if it occurs at a prevalence of 10 % with 95 % confidence in these sub-units.
However, in the case of: - breeding sows, the minimum number of sows to be examined must allow for the detection of fever if it occurs at a prevalence of 5 % with 95 % confidence in the sub-unit where the sows to be moved are kept; - boars, all boars to be moved must be examined. 3.
In case of pigs to be moved to a slaughterhouse, to a processing plant or to other places to be then killed or slaughtered, in addition to the investigations to be carried out in accordance with subparagraph 1, a clinical examination of pigs must be carried out in each sub-unit in which the pigs to be moved are kept.
The minimum number of the pigs to be checked must allow for the detection of fever if it occurs at a prevalence of 20 % with 95 % confidence in the sub-units in question.
However, in the case of breeding sows or boars, the minimum number of pigs to be examined must allow for the detection of fever if it occurs at a prevalence of 5 % with 95 % confidence in the subunit where the pigs to be moved are kept. 4.
When the pigs referred to in subparagraph 3 are slaughtered or killed, blood samples for serological tests or blood or tonsils samples for virological tests must be taken from pigs proceeding from each of the sub-units from which pigs have been moved.
The minimum number of samples to be taken must allow for the detection of 10 % seroprevalence or virus prevalence with 95 % confidence in each sub-unit.
However, in the case of breeding sows or boars the minimum number of pigs to be sampled must allow for the detection of 5 % of seroprevalence or virus prevalence with 95 % confidence in the subunit where these pigs were kept.
Checking and sampling procedures in a holding in relation to re-population 1.
When pigs are re-introduced into a holding in accordance with Article 13(2)(a) or (2)(b) or Article 19(8), second subparagraph (b) of Directive 2001/89/EC, the following sampling procedures must be applied: - in case sentinel pigs are reintroduced, blood samples for serological tests must be taken at random from a number of pigs that allow for the detection of 10 % seroprevalence with 95 % confidence in each sub-unit of the holding; - in case of total re-population, blood samples for serological tests must be taken at random from a number of pigs that allow for the detection of 20 % seroprevalence with 95 % confidence in each sub-unit of the holding.
However, in the case of breeding sows or boars the number of samples to be taken must be such as to detect 10 % seroprevalence with 95 % confidence. 2.
Sampling procedures in holdings in the protection zone before lifting restrictions 1.
In order that the measures referred to in Article 10 of Directive 2001/89/EC may be lifted in a protection zone, in all holdings in the zone: - a clinical examination must be carried out in accordance with the procedures laid down in A.2 and 3; - blood samples for serological tests must be taken as laid down in subparagraph 2. 2.
The minimum number of blood samples to be taken must allow for the detection of 10 % seroprevalence with 95 % confidence in pigs in each sub-unit in the holding.
However, in the case of: - breeding sows, the minimum number of samples to be taken must allow for the detection of 5 % seroprevalence with 95 % confidence; - a semen collection centre, blood samples must be taken from all boars.
Sampling procedures in holdings in the surveillance zone before lifting restrictions 1.
In order that the restrictions referred to in Article 11 of Directive 2001/89/EC may be lifted in a surveillance zone, a clinical examination must be carried out in all holdings in the zone in accordance with the procedures laid down in A.2.
In addition, blood samples for serological tests must be taken from pigs: - in all the holdings where no pigs of between two and eight months of age are kept; - whenever the competent authority deems that classical swine fever might have spread unnoticed amongst breeding sows; - in any other holding where sampling is deemed necessary by the competent authority; - in all semen collection centres. 2.
However, if the competent authority deems that classical swine fever might have spread unnoticed amongst breeding sows, sampling may only be carried out in the sub-units where these animals are kept.
Serological monitoring and sampling procedures in areas where classical swine fever is suspected to occur or has been confirmed in feral pigs 1.
When such circumstances do not occur, or in case of large areas, it is recommended to identify sampling areas of not more than 200 km2, where population of about 400 to 1000 feral pigs may usually live. 3.
It is also recommended that: - in areas where hunting pressure is higher and regularly performed, or selective hunting is carried out as a disease control measure, approximately 50 % of the sampled animals belong to the three months to one year age class, 35 % to one to two years age class and 15 % to more than 2 years age class; - in areas where hunting pressure is very low or absent, at least 32 animals are sampled for each one of the three age classes; - sampling is performed in a short time, preferably not more than one month; - the age of sampled animals is identified according to the teeth eruption. 4.
Without prejudice to Chapter IV A. 5.b, samples for serological testing must not be taken from piglets less than eight weeks old. 4.
Transport of samples 1.
CHAPTER VI Principles and use of virological tests and evaluation of their results A.
Detection of virus antigen 1.
Fluorescent antibody test (FAT) The principle of the test is the detection of viral antigen on thin cryosections of organ material from pigs suspected of being infected with classical swine fever virus.
Confidence in the test result may be limited by doubtful staining, particularly where considerable experience in performing the test has not been acquired or if the organs tested are autolysed. 2.
ELISA for antigen detection Viral antigen is detected by using various ELISA techniques.
It is recommended that ELISA antigen which give satisfactory results on reference material are used.
However, at present all commercial ELISA are less sensitive than the virus isolation on cell culture and their sensitivity is significantly better on blood samples from piglets than from adult pigs.
Virus isolation 1.
Virus isolation is based on the incubation of sample material on susceptible cell cultures of porcine origin.
Classical swine fever specific antibodies are required for differential diagnosis with respect to other pestiviruses. 2.
The preferred samples for isolation of classical swine fever virus are leukocytes, plasma or whole blood obtained from non-coagulated blood samples or the organs referred to in A.1. 3.
All classical swine fever virus isolates from all primary outbreaks, primary cases in feral pigs or cases in slaughterhouse or means of transport must be genetic typed by a national reference laboratory in the Member States, or by any other laboratory authorised by the Member State in question or by the Community Reference Laboratory, in accordance with E.
Detection of virus genome 1.
Suitable sample material for diagnostic PCR are the organs described for virus isolation or unclotted blood. 4.
Evaluation of the results of virological tests 1.
Its use is particularly recommended in case positive FAT, ELISA or PCR results are not associated with the detection of clinical signs or lesions of disease and in any other doubtful case.
However, a primary outbreak of classical swine fever can be confirmed if clinical signs or lesions of disease have been detected in the pigs in question and at least two antigen or genome detection tests have given a positive result.
A secondary outbreak of classical swine fever can be confirmed if, in addition to the epidemiological link to a confirmed outbreak or case, clinical signs or lesions of disease have been detected in the pigs in question and an antigen or genome detection tests has given a positive result.
Further cases of classical swine fever in feral pigs for which an epidemiologial link with previously confirmed cases have been found can be confirmed if an antigen or genome detection test has given a positive result. 2.
The data on typing and sequencing of classical swine fever virus isolates available to the laboratories authorised to diagnose classical swine fever must be forwarded to the Community Reference Laboratory in order that this information is entered into the database kept by this laboratory.
CHAPTER VII Principles and use of serological tests and evaluation of their results A.
The half-life of maternal antibodies in non-viraemic healthy piglets is about two weeks.
The detection of antibodies against classical swine fever virus in serum or plasma samples is carried out to assist the diagnosis of classical swine fever in suspected holdings, for establishing the age of infection in case of a confirmed outbreak and for monitoring and surveillance purposes.
However, an accurate evaluation of the results of the serological tests must be carried out taking into account the whole clinical, virological and epidemiological findings, in the framework of the enquiry to be carried out in case of suspicion or confirmation of classical swine fever, in accordance with Article 8 of Directive 2001/89/EC.
Recommended serological tests 1.
The virus neutralisation test (VNT) and the ELISA are the tests of choice for the serological diagnosis of classical swine fever.
The quality and efficiency of the serological diagnosis performed by the national laboratories must be regularly checked in the framework of the inter-laboratory comparison test periodically organised by the Community Reference Laboratory. 2.
The VNT is based on the determination of the virus neutralising activity of the antibodies of the serum sample, expressed as neutralising 50 % end point.
Each dilution is mixed with an equal volume of a virus suspension containing 100 infectious doses (TCID 50).
However, cross-neutralising antibodies specific for ruminant pestiviruses infections of pigs may be detected by this test.
The pestiviruses strains to be used in the neutralisation tests shall be in accordance with the recommendation of the Community Reference Laboratory. 5.
This panel shall include: - sera from pigs in the early phase of classical swine fever virus infection (before 21 days post infection); - sera from convalescent pigs (after 21 days post infection); - sera from pigs infected with ruminant pestiviruses.
The ELISA to be used for the serological diagnosis of classical swine fever must recognise all reference sera from the convalescent pigs.
It is further recommended that they detect all positive sera from the early phase and to show a minimum of cross-reactions with the sera from pigs infected with ruminant pestiviruses.
Interpretation of serological results and differential diagnosis with infections due to ruminant pestiviruses (BVDV and BDV) 1.
If the comparative tests show a virus neutralisation titre in more than one pig equal to or higher than 10 ND50 and this titre is equal or higher than the titres to other pestiviruses, the competent authority shall ensure that classical swine fever shall be confirmed, provided that epidemiological evidence of disease has been found in the holding in question. 4.
Without prejudice to the provisions of Article 4(3) of Directive 2001/89/EC, if epidemiological evidence of disease has not been found or if the results of the previous tests are inconclusive, the competent authority shall ensure that in the holding in question: - the measures referred to in Article 4(2) of Directive 2001/89/EC shall continue to apply; - further investigations are carried out as quickly as possible to confirm or rule out classical swine fever, in accordance with Chapter IV. 5.
The additional requirements laid down in Table 1 must be fulfilled by any laboratory where procedures involving extensive multiplication of virus are carried out. 3.
The requirements laid down in Table 2 must be fulfilled by any laboratory where animal experiments with classical swine fever virus are carried out. 4.
In general only few pigs in a herd give rise to these false/positive reactions. (3) If pigs have been vaccinated against classical swine fever with a conventional vaccine they can be found seropositive due to the vaccination alone, or due to a silent infection in vaccinated animals. (4) Under certain circumstances up to 10 % of the pigs within a herd may have antibodies against ruminant pestiviruses causing bovine viral diarrhoea and border disease.
