Annex II/6 to Regulation No 23 and Annex I/2 to Regulation No 58 and Annexes II and III to Regulation (EEC) No 1194/69 are hereby repealed.
For the Commission Poul DALSAGER Member of the Commission (1) OJ No L 118, 20. 5. 1972, p. 1. (2) OJ No L 190, 1. 7. 1982, p. 7. (3) OJ No 30, 20. 4. 1962, p. 965/62. (4) OJ No 116, 21. 7. 1964, p. 1050/64. (5) OJ No 56, 7. 7. 1962, p. 1607/62. (6) OJ No L 157, 28. 6. 1969, p. 1.
Lastly, the stems must be twisted or clean cut and must not be more than 4 cm long (except for stringed onions).
They should be reasonably firm and, provided they retain their essential characteristics of quality and preservation, they may show the following defects: - shape and colouring not typical of the variety, - early signs of shoot growth or sprouting (not more than 10 % by number or weight by unit of presentation), - traces of rubbing, - slight marking caused by parasites or disease, - small healed cracks, - slight bruising, healed, unlikely to impair keeping qualities.
However, they may show the following: - slight traces of soil, - incipient shoot growth sprouting affecting not more than 20 % by number or weight by unit of presentation, - bruising unlikely to impair keeping qualities.
Onions in class III may differ in size by not more than 30 mm in any one package.
Quality tolerances (i) Class I: 10 % by number or weight of onions not satisfying the requirements for the class, but meeting those for class II or, exceptionally, coming within the tolerances for that class. (ii) Classes II and III: 10 % by number or weight of onions satisfying neither the requirements for the class nor the minimum requirements, excluding produce affected by rotting, or any other deterioration rendering it unfit for consumption.
Size tolerances For all classes: 10 % by number or weight of onions not conforming to the size identified, but with a diameter of not more than 20 % below or above it.
Nature of produce 'Onions', if the contents are not visible from the outside.
Commercial specifications - class, - size indicated by minimum and maximum diameters, - weight.
It must, in particular: - be reasonably firm, - have outer leaves of at least half the length of the chicory, - not be greenish or glassy-looking.
It may, however, have the following defects: - be of a slightly irregular shape, - be slightly greenish at the tips of the leaves, - be slightly open at the tip (the diameter of the opening may not exceed the chicory's maximum diameter by more than one-third. (iv) Class III (1): This class includes chicory which does not qualify for inclusion in the higher classes, but satisfies the requirements defined for class II.
No limit is fixed for chicory in class III.
Quality tolerances (i) 'Extra' class: 5 % by number or weight of chicory sprouts not satisfying the requirements of this class but meeting the requirements of class I or, exceptionally, coming within the tolerances for that class. (ii) Class I: 10 % by number or weight of chicory sprouts not satisfying the requirements of this class but meeting the requirements of class II, or exceptionally coming within the tolerances for that class. (iii) Class II: 10 % by number or weight of chicory sprouts satisfying neither the requirements of this class nor the minimum requirements, with the exception of produce affected by rotting or any other deterioration rendering it unfit for consumption; (iv) Class III: 15 % by number or weight of chicory sprouts satisfying neither the requirements of this class nor the minimum requirements, with the exception of produce affected by rotting or any other deterioration rendering it unfit for consumption.
Uniformity The contents of each package must be uniform and comprise only chicory of the same origin, variety quality and size.
Presentation Chicory graded as 'Extra' and as classes I and II must be put up: - either evenly in layers, - or in small packages.
Commercial specifications - class, - maximum and minimum length for chicory in classes II and III ranging between 6 and 12 cm in length only.
