However, the veterinary authorities have suspended certification of exports of meat from animals slaughtered after the 4 January 2006.
Consignments of such meat from bovines slaughtered on or after 4 January 2006 from those Departments should be suspended.
However by way of derogation from that suspension consignments with a certification signed between 4 January to 4 February 2006 for de-boned and matured meat from bovines slaughtered during the period from 4 January 2006 to 4 February 2006 and already dispatched to the Community should be permitted to be imported into the Community. (5) Following a recent Commission mission to Brazil it appears that although the traceability systems have been substantially improved, some further improvements are necessary in order to avoid possible contacts between animals of different status.
Article 3 This Decision is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 27 March 2006.
For the Commission Markos Kyprianou Member of the Commission [1] OJ L 18, 23.1.2002, p. 11. [2] OJ L 146, 14.6.1979, p. 15.
Part 2 MODELS OF VETERINARY CERTIFICATES Model(s): "BOV" : Model of veterinary certificate for fresh meat of domestic bovine animals (Bos taurus, Bison bison, Bubalus bubalis and their cross-breeds). "POR" : Model of veterinary certificate for fresh meat of domestic porcine animals (Sus scrofa). "OVI" : Model of veterinary certificate for fresh meat of domestic sheep (Ovis aries) and goats (Capra hircus). "EQU" : Model of veterinary certificate for fresh meat of domestic equine animals (Equus caballus, Equus asinus and their cross-breeds). "RUF" : Model of veterinary certificate for fresh meat of farmed non-domestic animals other than suidae and solipeds. "RUW" : Model of veterinary certificate for fresh meat of wild non-domestic animals other than suidae and solipeds. "SUF" : Model of veterinary certificate for fresh meat of farmed non-domestic suidae. "SUW" : Model of veterinary certificate for fresh meat of wild non-domestic suidae. "EQW" : Model of veterinary certificate for fresh meat of wild non-domestic solipeds.
SG (Supplementary guarantees) "A" : guarantees regarding the maturation, pH measurement and boning of fresh meat, excluding offal, certified according to the models of certificates BOV (point 10.6), OVI (point 10.6), RUF (point 10.7) and RUW (point 10.4). "B" : guarantees regarding matured trimmed offal as described in the model of certificate BOV (point 10.6). "C" : guarantees regarding laboratory test for classical-swine-fever in the carcases from which fresh meat certified according to the model of certificate SUW (point 10.3 bis) was obtained. "D" : guarantees regarding swill feed on holding(s) of animals from which fresh meat certified according to models of certificate POR (point 10.3 d)) was obtained. "E" : guarantees regarding tuberculosis test in the animals from where fresh meat certified according to the model of certificate BOV (point 10.4 d)) was obtained. "F" : guarantees regarding the maturation and de-boning of fresh meat, excluding offal, certified according to the models of certificates BOV (point 10.6), OVI (point 10.6), RUF (point 10.7) and RUW (point 10.4). "G" : guarantees regarding 1, exclusion of offals and spinal cord; and 2, testing and origin of cervid animals in relation to chronic wasting disease as referred to in the models of certificates RUF (point 9.2.1) and RUW (point 9.3.1). "H" : supplementary guarantees required for Brazil concerning animal contacts, vaccination programmes and surveillance.
