2002/733/EC: Commission Decision of 30 May 2002 concerning the technical specification for interoperability relating to the energy subsystem of the trans-European high-speed rail system referred to in Article 6(1) of Directive 96/48/EC (Text with EEA relevance) (notified under document number C(2002) 1949) Commission Decision of 30 May 2002 concerning the technical specification for interoperability relating to the energy subsystem of the trans-European high-speed rail system referred to in Article 6(1) of Directive 96/48/EC (notified under document number C(2002) 1949) (Text with EEA relevance) (2002/733/EC) THE COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, Having regard to Council Directive 96/48/EC of 23 July 1996 on the interoperability of the trans-European high-speed rail network(1), and in particular Article 6(1) thereof, Whereas: (1) In accordance with Article 2(c) of Directive 96/48/EC, the trans-European high-speed rail system is subdivided into structural or functional subsystems.
These subsystems are described in Annex II to the Directive. (2) In accordance with Article 5(1) of the Directive, each of the subsystems shall be covered by a technical specification for interoperability (TSI). (3) In accordance with Article 6(1) of the Directive, draft TSIs shall be drawn up by the joint representative body. (4) The Committee set up under Article 21 of Directive 96/48/EC has appointed the European Association for Railway Interoperability (AEIF) as the joint representative body in accordance with Article 2(h) of the Directive. (5) The AEIF has been given a mandate to draw up a draft TSI for the energy subsystem in accordance with Article 6(1) of the Directive.
This mandate has been established in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 21(2) of the Directive. (6) The AEIF has drawn up the draft TSI, together with an introductory report containing a cost-benefit analysis as provided for in Article 6(3) of the Directive. (7) The draft TSI has been examined by the representatives of the Member States, in the framework of the Committee set up by the Directive, in the light of the introductory report. (8) As specified in Article 1 of Directive 96/48/EC, the conditions for achieving interoperability of the trans-European high-speed rail system concern the design, construction, upgrading and operation of the infrastructures and rolling stock contributing to the functioning of the system to be put into service after the date of entry into force of the Directive.
In addition, those rules being national, it is necessary that each Member State inform the other Member States and the Commission of the bodies it appoints for carrying out the procedure for the assessment of conformity or suitability for use as well as the checking procedure in use for verifying the interoperability of subsystems within the meaning of Article 16(2) of Directive 96/48/EC.
Member States shall apply, as far as possible, the principles and criteria provided for in Directive 96/48/EC for the implementation of Article 16(2) in the case of those national rules.
As to the bodies in charge of those procedures, Member States will make use, as far as possible, of bodies notified under Article 20 of Directive 96/48/EC.
Where appropriate, a review or updating procedure will be initiated in accordance with Article 6(2) of Directive 96/48/EC. (13) In some cases, the TSI, which is the subject of this Decision, allows a choice between different solutions, making it possible to apply definitive or transitional interoperable solutions that are compatible with the existing situation.
Furthermore, in the cases provided for in Article 7 of the Directive Member States must be allowed not to apply certain technical specifications.
To this end, the TSI, which is the subject of this Decision, indicates precisely which information must appear in the register. (14) The application of the TSI which is the subject of this Decision must take into account specific criteria relating to technical and operational compatibility between the infrastructures and the rolling stock to be placed in service and the network into which they are to be integrated.
The TSI is fully applicable to the infrastructure and rolling stock of the trans-European high-speed rail system as defined in Annex I to Directive 96/48/EC, taking into account Article 2 and Article 3 hereunder.
With regard to the aspects that are common to the high-speed and the conventional rail systems, but not covered in the attached TSI, the conditions to be complied with for the verification of the interoperability within the meaning of Article 16(2) of Directive 96/48/EC are the applicable technical rules in use in the Member State which authorises the placing in service of the subsystem concerned by this Decision. 2.
The Member State will examine the dossier and, taking into account the implementation strategy in Chapter 7 of the attached TSI, will (where appropriate) decide whether the scale of the work requires the need for a new authorisation for placing in service under Article 14 of Directive 96/48/EC.
For the Commission Loyola De Palacio Vice-President (1) OJ L 235, 17.9.1996, p. 6. (2) Directive 2001/16/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 March 2001 on the interoperability of the trans-European conventional rail system (OJ L 110, 20.4.2001, p. 1). (3) OJ L 100, 11.4.2001, p. 17.
The specifications concerning the %quot%users%quot% and %quot%environment%quot% subsystems, which are necessary to ensure interoperability of the trans-European high-speed rail system in compliance with the essential requirements, are set out in the TSIs concerned.
Reference shall be made in particular to the lines of the trans-European rail network described in Decision No 1692/96/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 1996 on Community guidelines for the development of the trans-European transport network or in any update to the same Decision as a result of the revision provided for in Article 21 of that Decision. 1.3.
Content of this TSI In accordance with Article 5(3) of and with Annex I(1)(b) to Directive 96/48/EC, this TSI: (a) specifies the essential requirements for the subsystems and their interfaces (Chapter 3); (b) establishes the basic parameters described in Annex II(3) to that Directive, which are necessary to meet the essential requirements (Chapter 4); (c) establishes the conditions to be complied with to achieve the specified performances for each of the following categories of line (Chapter 4): - category I: specially built high-speed lines equipped for speeds generally equal to or greater than 250 km/h, - category II: specially upgraded high-speed lines equipped for speeds of the order of 200 km/h, - category III: specially upgraded high-speed lines which have special features as a result of topographical, relief or town-planning constraints, on which the speed must be adapted to each case. (d) establishes implementing provisions in certain specific cases (Chapter 7); (e) determines the interoperability constituents and interfaces which must be covered by European specifications, including European standards, which are needed in order to achieve interoperability within the trans-European high-speed rail system while meeting the essential requirements (Chapter 5); (f) states, in each case under consideration, which of the modules defined in Decision 93/465/EEC or, where appropriate, which specific procedures are to be used in order to assess either the conformity or the suitability for use of the interoperability constituents, as well as %quot%EC%quot% verification of the subsystems (Chapter 6). 2.
Definition of the subsystem 2.2.1.
Electrification system As with any electrical device a traction unit is designed in order to operate correctly with a nominal voltage and a nominal frequency applied at its terminals that are the pantographs and wheels.
So far as the geometrical interaction is concerned the height of the contact wire above the rails, the lateral displacement in still air and under wind pressure and the contact force have to be specified.
For the pantograph the geometry of the collector head is also fundamental in order to guarantee correct interaction with the contact line whilst taking into account the possible sway of the vehicles. 2.2.3.
This interaction is mainly determined by: - static and aerodynamic efforts depending on the nature of the contact strip of the pantograph and the design of the pantographs, - the compatibility of the contact strip material with the contact wire regarding limitation of wear on those components, - the dynamic behaviour and impacts on the current collection quality and the aim of a continuous, uninterrupted power supply without disturbances, - the protection of the pantograph and overhead contact line equipment in case of a broken pantograph collector strip, - the number of pantographs in service and the distance between them which have a fundamental impact on the collection quality since each pantograph can interfere with others on the same contact line. 2.2.4.
Introduction The energy subsystem has many links with other subsystems of the trans-European high-speed rail system in order to achieve the envisaged performance of interoperability.
These links are covered by the definition of interfaces and performance criteria. 2.3.2.
Tripping of circuit breakers in substations and on trains has to be coordinated; that is why electric protection interfaces with the rolling stock subsystem. - Electric interference and harmonic emissions interface with the rolling stock and control-command and signalling subsystems. 2.3.3.
Links concerning overhead contact line equipment and pantographs - In the case of high-speed lines the contact wire height needs special attention in order to avoid excessive wear of the contact wire.
The contact wire height interfaces with the infrastructure and rolling stock subsystems. - To pass boundaries of electrification systems without bridging differing systems the number and arrangement of pantographs on trains have to be stipulated.
Links concerning interaction of overhead line and pantograph - The quality of current collection depends on the number of pantographs in service and their spacing.
ESSENTIAL REQUIREMENTS 3.1.
Compliance with essential requirements According to Article 4(1) of Directive 96/48/EC the trans-European high-speed rail system, its subsystems and its interoperability constituents shall meet the essential requirements set out in general terms in Annex III to the Directive. 3.2.
Aspects of essential requirements The essential requirements cover: - safety, - reliability and availability, - health, - environmental protection, - technical compatibility.
According to Directive 96/48/EC the essential requirements may be generally applicable to the whole trans-European high-speed rail system or be specific to each subsystem and its constituents. 3.3.
Safety According to Annex III to Directive 96/48/EC essential requirements for the energy subsystem as far as safety is concerned are the following. 1.1.1.
The aspects mentioned under 1.1.2 and 1.1.5 are not relevant in case of the energy subsystem.
The essential requirements are met if compliance with the stipulations of Chapters 4 and 5 is verified.
The following essential requirements for safety according to Annex III to Directive 96/48/EC are especially of concern for the energy subsystem. 2.2.1.
In order to satisfy the essential requirement 2.2.1 above, the Energy subsystem shall be designed and constructed so that the requirements set out in points 4.1.1, 4.2.2.2, 4.2.2.3, 4.2.2.7, 4.2.2.9, 4.3.1.2, 4.3.1.5, 4.3.1.7, 4.3.2.1, 4.3.2.2 and 4.3.2.4 of Chapter 4 are met and the interoperability constituents used comply with the requirements set out in point 5.3.1.1 of Chapter 5.
The essential requirements are met if compliance with the stipulations of Chapters 4 and 5 is verified. 3.3.2.
In order to satisfy the essential requirement 1.2, the energy subsystem shall be designed and constructed so that the requirements set out in points 4.3.1.9 and 4.3.2.6 of Chapter 4 are met.
The essential requirements are met if compliance with the stipulations of Chapter 4 is verified. 3.3.3.
Health According to Annex III to Directive 96/48/EC essential requirements for the energy subsystem as far as health is concerned are the following. 1.3.1.
In order to satisfy the essential requirements 1.3.1 and 1.3.2, the energy subsystem shall be designed and constructed so that the requirements set out in points 4.2.2.2, 4.2.3.2, 4.2.3.3, 4.3.1.2, 4.3.1.8, 4.3.1.10, 4.3.2.2 and 4.3.2.4 of Chapter 4 are met and the interoperability constituents used comply with the requirements set out in point 5.3.3.2 of Chapter 5.
The essential requirements are met if compliance with the stipulations of Chapters 4 and 5 is verified. 3.3.4.
Environmental protection According to Annex III to Directive 96/48/EC essential requirements for the energy subsystem as far as environmental protection is concerned are the following. 1.4.1.
The repercussions on the environment of the establishment and operation of the trans-European high-speed rail system must be assessed and taken into account at the design stage of the system in accordance with the Community provisions in force. 1.4.2.
The materials used in trains and infrastructure must prevent the emissions of fumes and gases which are harmful and dangerous to the environment, particularly in the event of fire. 1.4.3.
The aspects mentioned under 1.4.2 are not relevant in case of the energy subsystem.
In order to satisfy essential requirements 1.4.1 and 1.4.3, the energy subsystem shall be designed and constructed so that the requirements set out in points 4.2.3.2, 4.2.3.3 and 4.3.1.5 of Chapter 4 are met.
The essential requirements are met if compliance with the stipulations of Chapter 4 is verified.
In order to satisfy essential requirement 2.2.2, the energy subsystem shall be designed and constructed so that the requirements set out in points 4.2.3.2 and 4.3.1.5 of Chapter 4 are met.
The essential requirements are met if compliance with the stipulations of Chapter 4 is verified. 3.3.5.
Technical compatibility According to Annex III to Directive 96/48/EC essential requirements for the energy subsystem as far as technical compatibility is concerned are the following. 1.5.
In order to satisfy the essential requirement 1.5, the energy subsystem shall be designed and constructed so that the requirements set out in points 4.1.1, 4.1.2, 4.2.2.1, 4.2.2.3, 4.2.2.4, 4.2.2.5, 4.2.2.6, 4.2.2.7, 4.2.2.8, 4,2.2.9, 4.2.2.10, 4.2.2.11, 4.2.2.12, 4.3.1.1, 4.3.1.3, 4.3.1.4, 4.3.2.1, 4.3.2.3, 4.3.2.5 and 4.3.3 of Chapter 4 are met and the interoperability constituents used comply with the requirements set out in points 5.3.1.2, 5.3.1.3, 5.3.1.4, 5.3.1.5, 5.3.1.6, 5.3.1.8, 5.3.2.2, 5.3.2.3, 5.3.2.4, 5.3.2.5, 5.3.2.6, 5.3.2.7, 5.3.2.9, 5.3.3.1, 5.3.3.2, 5.3.3.3 and 5.3.3.4 of Chapter 5 are met.
The essential requirements are met if compliance with the stipulations of Chapters 4 and 5 is verified.
The following essential requirements for technical compatibility according to Annex III to Directive 96/48/EC are especially of concern for the energy subsystem. 2.2.3.
The electrical supply systems used throughout the trans-European high-speed rail system must: - enable trains to achieve the specified performance levels, - be compatible with the collection devices fitted to the trains.
In order to satisfy essential requirement 2.2.3, the energy subsystem shall be designed and constructed so that the requirements set out in points 4.1.1, 4.1.2.1, 4.1.2.2, 4.1.2.3, 4.3.1.1, 4.3.1.3, 4.3.2.1, 4.3.2.3 and 4.3.2.5 of Chapter 4 are met and the interoperability constituents used comply with the requirements set out in points 5.3.1.1, 5.3.1.2, 5.3.1.4, 5.3.2.1, 5.3.2.5, 5.3.3.1 and 5.3.3.5 of Chapter 5 are met.
The essential requirements are met if compliance with the stipulations of Chapters 4 and 5 is verified. 3.4.
Verification of conformity Conformity of the energy subsystem and its constituents to the essential requirements shall be verified in accordance with the provisions of Directive 96/48/EC and the specifications presented in Chapter 6 and its related Annexes A to C to this TSI. 4.
CHARACTERISATION OF THE SUBSYSTEM The trans-European high-speed rail system, to which Directive 96/48/EC applies and of which the Energy subsystem is a part, is an integrated system which requires the basic parameters, interfaces and performances to be verified in particular so as to ensure that the system is interoperable and that the essential requirements are met. 4.1.
Table 4.1 Voltages and frequencies %gt%TABLE%gt% The voltage at the terminals of the substation and at the pantograph shall comply with Annex N to this TSI.
The frequency of the voltage shall comply with Annex N to this TSI.
The permissible data are given in Table 4.2.
Table 4.2 Geometry of overhead contact lines for AC systems %gt%TABLE%gt% The overhead contact line geometry shall comply with the requirements set in Annex H.3.1 to this TSI. 4.1.2.2.
Table 4.3 Geometry of overhead contact lines for DC systems %gt%TABLE%gt% The overhead contact line geometry shall comply with requirements set in Annex (J.3.1) to this TSI. 4.1.2.3.
Geometry of the pantograph collector head The width and the working range of the pantograph collector head, the width of the contact strips and the profile of the collector head are defined to achieve interoperability.
The profile of the pantograph collector head is depicted in figure 4.1.
Interfaces of the energy subsystem 4.2.1.
List of interfaces 4.2.1.1.
Interfaces with Infrastructure - Gauges - Protection against electric shock (earthing and bonding) 4.2.1.2.
Interfaces with Control-Command and Signalling - Harmonic currents, influence on signalling and internal telecommunications - Control signals needed for phase and system separation sections 4.2.1.3.
Interfaces with Rolling Stock - Vehicle dynamic envelope - Limitation of maximum power consumption - Current at standstill - Voltage and frequency - Electrical protection coordination - Arrangement of pantographs - Running through phase separation sections - Running through system separation sections - Adjustment of pantograph contact force 4.2.1.4.
Common performance criteria with rolling stock - Power factor - Regenerative braking - Harmonic characteristics and related overvoltages on the overhead contact line 4.2.2.
Characteristic data of interfaces 4.2.2.1.
Conformity assessment shall be carried out within assessment of the Infrastructure subsystem. 4.2.2.2.
Earthing and bonding, protection against electric shock Infrastructure subsystem shall implement a general earthing system along the route to comply with the requirements for protection against electric shock specified in EN 50122-1.
Protection against electric shock during operation and in failure conditions is met by limiting touch voltages to acceptable limits as stipulated in EN 50122-1, version 1997, point 7.
Conformity assessment shall be carried out within the assessment of infrastructure subsystem. 4.2.2.3.
Harmonic currents, influence on signalling and internal telecommunications Harmonic currents generated by rolling stock affect the control-command and signalling subsystem through the energy subsystem.
No conformity assessment is required by the energy subsystem. 4.2.2.4.
Conformity assessment shall be carried out within the energy subsystem. 4.2.2.5.
Limitation of maximum power consumption The installed power on a high-speed line and upgraded or a connecting line determines the permissible power consumption of trains.
Assessment shall be carried out within assessment of the rolling stock subsystem.
The register of infrastructure defined in Annex D to this TSI shall contain information on maximum power consumption. 4.2.2.6.
Assessment shall be carried out within assessment of the rolling stock subsystem. 4.2.2.7.
Voltage and frequency Trains shall be able to operate within the range of voltages and frequencies as given in point 4.1.1 and specified in Annex N to this TSI.
Conformity assessment shall be carried out within assessment of the rolling stock subsystem. 4.2.2.8.
Conformity assessment shall be carried out with the energy subsystem in so far as design and operation of substation is concerned and with the rolling stock subsystem in so far as equipment on traction units is concerned. 4.2.2.9.
The maximum distance between pantographs is less than 400 m.
In addition the spacing between three consecutive pantographs shall be more than 143 m.
Conformity assessment shall be carried out with the rolling stock subsystem. 4.2.2.10.
The register of infrastructure defined in Annex D to this TSI shall contain information on the design of phase separation sections.
Requirements for design of energy subsystem For future lines two types of designs of phase separation sections may be adopted: - a phase separation design where all the pantographs of the longest interoperable trains are inside the neutral section.
The length of the neutral section shall be at least 402 m.
Using this design necessitates that the distance between three consecutive pantographs in service is more than 143 m.
Information on the design of phase separation sections shall be provided by the register of infrastructure as defined in Annex D to this TSI.
Requirements for control-command and rolling stock subsystems On high-speed lines, the control-command and signalling subsystem shall allow the rolling stock to operate automatically before and after phase separation sections.
Equipment on traction units shall be triggered in due time in front of a phase separation section taking full account of the maximum permissible running speed.
For conformity assessment functional tests shall be carried out jointly with rolling stock and control-command and signalling subsystems. 4.2.2.11.
Running through system separation sections General Trains shall be able to move from one energy supply system to an adjacent one that uses a different energy supply without bridging the two systems.
A choice has to be made by the adjudicating entity and declared in the register of infrastructure defined in Annex D to this TSI.
Requirements for the design of energy subsystem - Pantographs raised If system separation sections are negotiated with pantographs raised to the contact wire the following conditions apply: (1) the functional design of the system separation section is specified as follows: - the geometry of different elements of the overhead contact line shall prevent pantographs short-circuiting or bridging both power systems with the arrangement of pantographs specified in point 4.2.2.9, - for short neutral section, the mechanical behaviour of the pantograph overhead contact line system shall comply with the EN 50119, version 2001, point 5.2, at maximum speed, - provisions shall be taken in the energy subsystem to avoid bridging of both adjacent power supply systems when the opening of the on-board circuit breaker(s) fails, - an example for arrangement of system separation section is given in figure H.4 of Annex H to this TSI; (2) the height of the contact wires in both systems has to be the same, if the speed is more than 250 km/h.
Details and tolerances are given in Annexes H and J to this TSI; (3) on rolling stock, devices shall open automatically the circuit breaker before reaching the separation section and recognise automatically the voltage of the new power supply system at the pantograph in order to switch the corresponding circuits. - Pantographs lowered If the system separation sections are negotiated with pantographs down the following conditions apply: (1) the design of the separation section between differing energy supply systems shall ensure that, in case of an unintentional pantograph at the contact line, bridging of the two power supply systems is avoided and switching off both supply sections is triggered immediately.
For design of system separation sections conformity assessment shall be carried out within the energy subsystem.
Requirements for control-command and rolling stock subsystems Before running through separation sections between different energy supply systems the traction units' main circuit breaker shall be opened without the driver's intervention, triggered by control signals.
The control-command and signalling subsystem shall provide the required signals to the traction units.
The design and the operation of system separation sections shall be explained in the register of infrastructure defined in Annex D to this TSI.
Conformity assessment shall be carried out with functional tests jointly with control-command and rolling stock subsystems. 4.2.2.12.
Conformity assessment shall be carried out within the rolling stock subsystem. 4.2.3.
Specific requirements are not necessary for the energy subsystem of interoperable high-speed lines. 4.2.3.3.
Specific requirements are not necessary for the Energy subsystem of interoperable high-speed lines. 4.2.3.4.
Exception in the case of execution of works The specifications for the energy subsystem and its interoperability constituents defined in Chapters 4 and 5 of the TSI are applicable to lines in normal functioning conditions or in the case of unexpected malfunctions which require the application of the maintenance plan.
These complementary measures may in particular consist of: - particular survey provisions of the works concerned, - temporary speed restrictions on the line section as taken by the adjudicating entity. 4.2.3.5.
Register of infrastructure of European interoperable lines For each section of line of the trans-European high-speed rail system a single document, called the %quot%European register of infrastructure%quot%, shall be drawn up by the adjudicating entity or its authorised representative.
Their list is provided in Annex D to this TSI.
The adjudicating entity shall append this document to the EC declaration of verification of the energy subsystem as a part of the technical file described in Annex V to Directive 96/48/EC to be granted the authorisation for putting into service by the Member State. 4.3.
Specified performance 4.3.1.
Installed power The performance to be achieved by the energy subsystem shall correspond to the relevant specified performance for each category of lines in the trans-European high-speed rail network system in respect of: - the maximum line speed, - the peak power at the pantographs and drawn by the trains, - the minimum headway, - the mean useful voltage.
The adjudicating entity shall declare the type of the line depending on its function with reference to Annex F to this TSI and in the register of infrastructure as defined in Annex D to this TSI.
The calculated mean useful voltage at the pantograph shall comply with Annex L to this TSI. 4.3.1.2.
Safety, earthing and bonding Safety of energy supply system, substations and posts shall be achieved by designing and testing these installations according to EN 50 122-1, version 1997, points 5, 7 and 9.
Power factor The acceptable data for power factor is stipulated in Annex G to this TSI.
Conformity assessment to be carried out within assessment of the rolling stock subsystem. 4.3.1.4.
The adjudicating entity can decide whether or not to accept regenerative braking on DC systems.
Conformity assessment for fixed installations shall be carried out as specified in Annex K(K.4) to this TSI.
For rolling stock conformity assessment shall be carried out as specified in the rolling stock TSI. 4.3.1.5.
No conformity assessment is required within this TSI. 4.3.1.7.
Harmonic characteristics and related overvoltages on the overhead contact line To avoid unacceptable overvoltages on the overhead contact line caused by harmonics generated by motive power units the motive power units shall comply with Annex P to this TSI.
Protection against electric shock The energy supply system shall be integrated into the general earthing system along the line to comply with the requirements for protection against electric shock as specified in EN 50 122-1, version 1997, points 5, 7 and 9.
Protection against electric shock during operation and in failure conditions is met by limiting touch voltages to acceptable limits as stipulated in EN 50 122-1, version 1997, points 7.2 and 7.3.
The maintenance plan shall contain at least the following elements: - maintenance routines in substations and posts, - recording of conditions, findings and experience gained, - a set of safety limit values which would lead to a limitation of train speeds in order to comply with the specifications in point 4.1.1, - an indication of the frequencies of checks and of the tolerances on measured values with for latter an indication of the rules of equivalence with the values of the standard quoted in subsection 4.3.1, - the measures taken (speed restriction, repair time) when prescribed values are exceeded.
Continuation of power supply in case of disturbances The power supply and the overhead contact line shall be designed to enable continuation of operation in case of disturbances.
Performance of the overhead contact line 4.3.2.1.
General The performance to be achieved by the overhead contact line shall correspond to the relevant performance as specified for each category of lines of the trans-European high-speed rail system in function of - the maximum line speed, and - the power demand of the trains at the pantographs.
The overhead contact line design shall guarantee the specified performance in accordance with the declaration made by the adjudicating entity in the frame of point 4.3.1.1. 4.3.2.2.
Safety, earthing and bonding The safety of the overhead contact line is achieved by designing these installations according to the European standards EN 50 119, version 2001, point 5.1.2 and EN 50 122-1, version 1997, points 5, 7 and 9.
The uplift under the design speed of the line shall comply with the stipulations in EN 50119, version 2001, point 5.2.1.2 and on Tables 4.5 and 4.6 of this TSI.
The quality of current collection has a fundamental impact on the life of a contact wire and shall, therefore, comply with agreed and measurable parameters.
The collection quality may be assessed by the mean value Fm and the standard deviation σ of measured or simulated contact forces or by counting of arcing.
The adjudicating entity shall decide to use interaction criterion item No 1 (contact force) or item No 2 (arcing) according to Table 4.5 or 4.6.
The interaction is considered to comply with the provisions in this TSI if - item 1 or 2 of Table 4.5, and - item 3 of Table 4.5, are fulfilled.
For the qualification of the performance with more than one pantograph, it shall be taken into account the pantograph which will show the more critical values.
Table 4.5 Interaction requirements, AC systems %gt%TABLE%gt% Table 4.6 Interaction requirements, DC systems %gt%TABLE%gt% 4.3.2.4.
Protection against electric shock The overhead contact line shall be integrated into the general earthing system along the line to comply with the requirements for protection against electric shock as specified in EN 50 122-1, version 1997, points 5, 7 and 9.
Protection against electric shock during operation and in failure conditions is met by limiting touch voltages to acceptable limits as stipulated in EN 50 122-1, version 1997, points 7.2 and 7.3.
In DC systems to improve the contact of carbon collector strips with the contact wire, a force more important, in general 140 N, can be required to avoid a hazardous heating of the contact wire when the train is at standstill with its auxiliaries working.
The value of total mean uplift force shall comply with the value of mean contact force Fm required for a good quality of current collection (see point 4.3.2.3, 5.3.1.6 and 5.3.2.7).
Conformity assessment is carried out by assessing the interoperable constituent %quot%pantograph%quot%. 4.3.2.6.
INTEROPERABILITY CONSTITUENTS 5.1.
Characterisation of constituents 5.3.1.
Overhead contact line 5.3.1.1.
Overall design Design of overhead contact lines shall comply with EN 50119, version 2001, points 5 and 6.
The overhead contact line shall meet the specified performance for the specific line especially so far as the maximum running speed and the current carrying capacity are concerned. 5.3.1.2.
Current capacity The current capacity depends on the ambient conditions which are maximum ambient temperature and minimum cross-wind speed defined for each specific line in the register of infrastructure defined in Annex D to this TSI as well as the permissible temperatures of the contact line elements and the duration of current action.
The design of the overhead contact line shall take care of the limits for the maximum temperatures as specified in Annex B to EN 50119, version 2001, taking account of the data given in EN 50149, version 1999, point 4.5, Tables 3 and 4.
Basic parameters The design of the overhead contact line shall comply with the basic parameters as specified in points 4.1.2.1 and 4.1.2.2. 5.3.1.4.
This parameter depends on the specific mass and the stress of the contact wire.
Maximum operation speed shall not be more than 70 % of the wave propagation speed.
Table 5.1 Uniformity u of elasticity in % %gt%TABLE%gt% For high-speed lines the mid-span elasticity should be limited to values less than 0,5 mm/N.
The contact line shall comply with EN 50119, version 2001, point 5.2.1.3. 5.3.1.6.
In case of trains with multiple pantographs simultaneously in operation the mean contact force Fm for any pantograph shall be not higher than the value given by figure 5.1 since for each individual pantograph the current collection criteria shall be met.
In case of trains with multiple pantographs simultaneously in operation the mean contact force Fm for any pantograph shall be not higher than the value given by figure 5.2 since for each individual pantograph the current collection criteria shall be met.
Current at standstill An acceptable level of current at standstill shall be acceptable for both the contact wire and pantograph collector strips to allow a proper feeding of the auxiliaries installed on board trains.
When testing the overhead contact line with the methodology specified in EN 50206-1, version 1998, point 6.13, the contact wire temperature shall not exceed the limits given in Annex B to EN 50119, version 2001. 5.3.2.
Pantograph 5.3.2.1.
Overall design The pantograph shall meet the specified performance as far as maximum running speed and current carrying capacity are concerned.
Basic parameters The design of the pantograph shall meet the basic parameters as specified in section 4.1. 5.3.2.3.
Working range of pantographs The pantographs shall be able to work under contact wire heights between 4800 mm and 6400 mm.
See section 7.3. 5.3.2.6.
Static contact force Static force is the mean vertical contact force exerted upward by the collector head on the contact line and caused by the pantograph raising device, whilst the pantograph is raised and the vehicle is at standstill.
In DC systems to improve the contact of collector strips with the contact wire, a higher force may be needed to avoid dangerous heating of the contact wire when the train is at standstill with its auxiliaries working.
For details and assessment reference is made to EN 50206-1, version 1998, point 6.3.1 5.3.2.7.
Mean contact force and interaction performance of the overhead line/pantograph system The mean contact force is the mean value of the forces due to static and aerodynamic actions.
The mean contact force is measured at the collector head according to Annex Q(Q.4.2.2).
These curves are defined in Annex Q(Q.4.1).
In case of trains with multiply pantographs simultaneously in operation, the contact force Fm for any pantograph shall not be higher than the value given by the target curve of point 5.3.1.6 or one of the curves C1 or C2 since for each individual pantograph the current collection criteria shall be met.
Those requirements are specified in Annex Q.
Assessment shall be carried out according Annex Q. 5.3.2.8.
Current at standstill The current drawn by the trains at standstill shall be acceptable for both the contact wire and pantograph collector strips to allow proper feeding of the auxiliaries installed on board trains.
For DC systems, in order to be in accordance with point 5.3.1.8, a current of 300 A per pantograph shall be guaranteed.
For conformity assessment reference is made to EN 50206-1, version 1998, point 6.13 and Annex Q. 5.3.3.
Contact strips 5.3.3.1.
Basic parameters The contact strips of the pantographs shall comply with the basic parameters as given in section 4.1. 5.3.3.2.
Type tests shall demonstrate the conformity as specified in Annex M(M.4) to this TSI. 5.3.3.4.
Current at standstill An acceptable level of current at standstill shall be acceptable for both the contact wire and pantograph collector strips to allow for the proper supply of auxiliaries installed on-board trains.
For DC systems, in order to be in accordance with point 5.3.1.8, a current of 300 A shall be guaranteed per pantograph.
A study shall be carried out to prove the capacity of the collector strips.
For conformity assessment reference is made to Annex M(M.3) to this TSI. 5.3.3.5.
Interoperability constituents 6.1.1.
Assessment procedures and modules The assessment procedure for conformity of interoperability constituents as defined in Chapter 5 of this TSI shall be carried out by application of modules as specified in Annex A to this TSI.
If the adjudicating entity can demonstrate that tests or verification for previous applications remain valid for the new applications, then the notified body shall take them into account in the conformity assessment.
Assessment procedures for conformity of the interoperability constituents: overhead contact line, pantograph and contact strip as defined in Chapter 5 of this TSI, are indicated in Annex B, Tables B.1 to B.3 to this TSI.
Application of modules For the assessment procedure of each interoperability constituent of the energy subsystem the manufacturer or his authorised representative established within the Community may choose either: - the type-examination procedure (module B) indicated in Annex A(A.2) to this TSI for the design and development phase in combination with the conformity to type procedure (module C) indicated in Annex A(A.3) to this TSI for the production phase, or - the full quality assurance with design examination procedure (module H2) indicated in Annex A(A.4) to this TSI for all phases.
These assessment procedures are defined in Annex A to this TSI.
The module H2 may only be chosen where the manufacturer operates a quality system for design, production, final product inspection and testing, approved and surveyed by a notified body.
The conformity assessment shall cover the phases and characteristics as indicated by X in the Tables B.1, B.2 and B.3 of Annex B to this TSI. 6.2.
Energy subsystem. 6.2.1.
Assessment procedures and modules At the request of the adjudicating entity or its authorised representative established within the Community, the notified body carries out the EC verification in accordance with Article 18(1) of and Annex VI to Directive 96/48/EC and in accordance with the provisions of the relevant modules as specified in Annex A to this TSI.
As far as specified in this TSI the EC verification of the energy subsystem shall take account of its interfaces with other subsystems of the trans-European high-speed rail system.
Application of modules For the verification procedure of the Energy subsystem the adjudicating entity or its authorised representative established within the Community may choose either: - the unit verification procedure (module SG) indicated in Annex A(A.5) to this TSI, or - the full quality assurance with design examination procedure (module SH2) indicated in Annex A(A.6) to this TSI.
Table 7.1 summarises the characteristics to be implemented.
Table 7.1 Implementation of technical specifications for interoperability, energy subsystem %gt%TABLE%gt% 7.3.
Specific cases The following special provisions are authorised in the following specific cases.
Particular features on the Austrian network Connecting lines The investment of changing the overhead contact line on upgraded and connecting lines and in stations to meet the requirements of the 1600 mm Euro pantograph is prohibitive.
Trains traversing these lines will have to be provided with secondary 1950 mm pantographs for medium-speed operation up to 230 km/h so that the overhead contact line on these parts of the trans-European network will not have to be prepared for the operation of the Euro pantograph.
In these areas a maximum lateral deflection of contact wire of 550 mm under action of cross wind is permissible.
Connecting and upgraded lines (P case) Due to the acceptance of designing the overhead contact line for a 1950 mm wide pantograph there is no need for adjustment.
Connecting lines (T1 case) To comply with the requirements on mean useful voltage and installed power additional substations are necessary.
Installation is planned until 2010. 7.3.2.
Particular features on the Belgian network (T1 case) Existing high-speed lines On existing high-speed lines the phase separation sections are not compatible with the requirement of pantograph distance between three pantographs of more than 143 m.
Particular features on the German network (P case) The investment of changing the overhead contact line on upgraded and connecting lines and in stations to meet the requirements of the 1600 mm Euro pantograph is prohibitive.
Trains traversing these lines will have to be provided with secondary 1950 mm pantographs for medium-speed operation up to 230 km/h so that the overhead contact line on these parts of the trans-European network will not have to be prepared for the operation of the Euro pantograph.
In these areas a maximum lateral deflection of contact wire of 550 mm under action of crosswind is permissible.
Particular features on the Spanish network (P case) The investment of changing the overhead contact line on upgraded and connecting lines and in stations to meet the requirements of the 1600 mm Euro pantograph is prohibitive.
Trains traversing these lines will have to be provided with secondary 1950 mm pantographs for medium-speed operation up to 230 km/h so that the overhead contact line on these parts of the trans-European network will not have to be prepared for the operation of the Euro pantograph.
In these areas a maximum lateral deflection of contact wire of 550 mm under action of crosswind is permissible.
Particular features on the French network Existing high-speed lines (T2 case) To provide for the criteria of current collection and dynamic behaviour on AC lines modification of overhead line equipment is necessary.
On existing high-speed lines the phase separation sections are not compatible with the pantograph arrangement between three pantographs of more than 143 m.
On a specific high-speed line a modification of the overhead contact line is necessary to provide for the permissible uplift without uplift stops installed in the pantographs.
Upgraded and connecting lines To provide for the criteria of current collection on DC lines modification of overhead line equipment is necessary.
Particular features on the British network New high-speed lines (T1 case) On the planned Channel Tunnel railway line (CTRL) the phase separation sections may need adjusting to the specifications in the TSI.
The variable contact wire height may be retained for speeds up to 225 km/h and the mean contact force will be adjusted to achieve the current collection requirements of EN 50119, version 2001, point 5.2.1.
Particular features on the Italian network Existing high-speed lines (T1 case) Geometry of overhead contact lines needs to be adjusted for height of contact wire on a length of 100 km double track line.
These modifications will be carried out until 2010.
Connecting and upgraded lines (T1 case) Geometry of overhead contact lines needs to be adjusted concerning height of contact wire on parts of lines involved.
These modifications will be carried out until 2010. 7.3.8.
Particular features on the Irish and Northern Irish networks (P cases) On electrified lines of the Irish and Northern Irish networks, the IRL1 Irish standard structure gauge and the necessary clearances will define the nominal contact wire height. 7.3.9.
Particular features on the Swedish network (P case) The investment of changing the overhead contact line on upgraded and connecting lines and in stations to meet the requirements of the 1600 mm Euro pantograph is prohibitive.
Trains traversing these lines will have to be provided with secondary 1950 mm pantographs for medium-speed operation up to 230 km/h so that the overhead contact line on these parts of the trans-European network will not have to be prepared for the operation of the Euro pantograph.
In these areas a maximum lateral deflection of contact wire of 550 mm under action of crosswind is permissible.
Particular features on the Finnish network (P case) The normal height of the contact wire is 6150 mm (minimum 5600 mm, maximum 6500 mm).
MODULE B (TYPE-EXAMINATION) Conformity assessment of interoperability constituents 1.
The application for the type-examination must be lodged by the manufacturer or his authorised representative established within the Community with a notified body of his choice.
The application must include: - the name and address of the manufacturer and, if the application is lodged by the authorised representative, his name and address in addition, - a written declaration that the same application has not been lodged with any other notified body, - the technical documentation, as described in point 3.
The technical documentation must enable the conformity of the interoperability constituent with the provisions of the TSI to be assessed.
The technical documentation must contain: - a general type-description, - conceptual design and manufacturing drawings and schemes of components, sub-assemblies, circuits, etc., - descriptions and explanations necessary for the understanding of said drawings and schemes and the operation of the product, - conditions of integration of the interoperability constituent in its system environment (sub-assembly, assembly, subsystem) and the necessary interface conditions, - conditions for use and maintenance of the interoperability constituent (restrictions of running time or distance, wear limits etc), - a list of the technical specifications, against which the conformity of the interoperability constituent is to be assessed (relevant TSI and/or European specification with relevant clauses), - descriptions of the solutions adopted to meet the requirements of the TSI in cases where the European specification referred to in the TSI have not been applied in full, - results of design calculations made, examinations carried out, etc., - test reports. 4.
identify the elements which have been designed in accordance with the relevant provisions of the TSI and the European specification referred to in the TSI, as well as the elements which have been designed without applying the relevant provisions of those European specifications, 4.6.
perform or have performed the appropriate examinations and necessary tests in accordance with point 4.2, 4.3 and 4.4 to establish whether, where the appropriate European specification referred to in the TSI have not been applied, the solutions adopted by the manufacturer meet the requirements of the TSI, 4.7.
This procedure can be reiterated. 8.
Each notified body must communicate to the other notified bodies the relevant information concerning the type-examination certificates it has withdrawn or refused. 9.
The annexes to the certificates must be kept at the disposal of the other notified bodies. 10.
MODULE C (CONFORMITY TO TYPE) Conformity assessment of interoperability constituents 1.
This module describes that part of the procedure whereby the manufacturer or his authorised representative established within the Community ensures and declares that the interoperability constituent concerned is in conformity with the type as described in the EC type-examination certificate and satisfies the requirements of Directive 96/48/EC and of the TSI that apply to it. 2.
The manufacturer must take all measures necessary to ensure that the manufacturing process ensures compliance of the manufactured interoperability constituents with the type as described in the EC type-examination certificate and with the requirements of Directive 96/48/EC and of the TSI that apply to them. 3.
The declaration must be written in the same language of the technical file and must contain the following: - the Directive reference (Directive 96/48/EC and other directives to which the interoperability constituent may be subject), - the name and address of the manufacturer or his authorised representative established within the Community (give trade name and full address and in the case of authorised representative also give the trade name of the manufacturer or constructor), - description of interoperability constituent (make, type etc.) - description of the procedure (module) followed in order to declare conformity, - all the relevant descriptions met by the interoperability constituent and in particular its conditions of use, - name and address of the notified body(ies) involved in the procedure followed in respect of conformity and date of examination certificates together with the duration and conditions of validity of the certificate, - reference to this TSI and to any other applicable TSI, and where appropriate reference to European specification, - identification of signatory having received power to engage the manufacturer or his authorised representative established within the Community.
The certificates to be referred to are: - the type-examination certificate and its additions. 4.
The manufacturer or his authorised representative established within the Community must keep a copy of the EC declaration of conformity for a period of 10 years after the last interoperability constituent has been manufactured.
If additional to the EC declaration of conformity an EC declaration of suitability for use for the interoperability constituent is requested in the TSI, this declaration has to be added, after being issued by the manufacturer under the conditions of module V.
MODULE H2 (FULL QUALITY ASSURANCE WITH DESIGN EXAMINATION) Conformity assessment of interoperability constituents 1.
The manufacturer must operate an approved quality system for design, manufacture and final product inspection and testing as specified in point 3 and shall be subject to surveillance as specified in point 4. 3.
Quality system 3.1.
The application must include: - all relevant information for the product category representative for the interoperability constituent envisaged, - the quality system's documentation. 3.2.
This quality system documentation shall ensure a common understanding of the quality policies and procedures such as quality programmes, plans, manuals and records.
It must contain in particular an adequate description of: - the quality objectives and the organisational structure, - responsibilities and powers of the management with regard to design and product quality, - the technical design specifications, including European specifications, that will be applied, and, where the European specifications referred to in Article 10 of Directive 96/48/EC will not be applied in full, the means that will be used to ensure that the requirements of the Directive and of the TSI that apply to the interoperability constituent will be met, - the design control and design verification techniques, processes and systematic actions that will be used when designing the interoperability constituents pertaining to the product category covered, - the corresponding manufacturing, quality control and quality assurance techniques, processes and systematic actions that will be used, - the examinations and tests that will be carried out before, during and after manufacture, and the frequency with which they will be carried out, - the quality records, such as inspection reports and test data, calibration data, qualification reports of the personnel concerned, etc., - the means to monitor the achievement of the required design and product quality and the effective operation of the quality system.
The quality policies and procedures shall cover in particular the assessment phases, as design review, review of manufacturing process and type tests, as they are specified in the TSI for different characteristics and performances of the interoperability constituent. 3.3.
The notified body must assess the quality system to determine whether it satisfies the requirements referred to in point 3.2.
The audit must be specific for the product category, which is representative for the interoperability constituent.
The notification must contain the conclusions of the examination and the reasoned assessment decision. 3.4.
The notified body must evaluate the modifications proposed and decide whether the amended quality system will still satisfy the requirements referred to in point 3.2 or whether a re-assessment is required.
The notification shall contain the conclusions of the examination and the reasoned assessment decision. 4.
The purpose of surveillance is to make sure that the manufacturer duly fulfils the obligations arising out of the approved quality system. 4.2.
The manufacturer must allow the notified body entrance for inspection purposes to the locations of design, manufacture, inspection and testing, and storage, and shall provide it with all necessary information, in particular: - the quality system documentation, - the quality records as foreseen by the design part of the quality system, such as results of analyses, calculations, tests, etc., - the quality records as foreseen by the manufacturing part of the quality system, such as inspection reports and test data, calibration data, qualification reports of the personnel concerned, etc. 4.3.
The manufacturer must, for a period of 10 years after the last product has been manufactured, keep at the disposal of the national authorities: - the documentation referred to in the second indent of the second subparagraph of point 3.1, - the updating referred to in the second subparagraph of point 3.4, - the decisions and reports from the notified body which are referred to in the final subparagraph of point 3.4, points 4.3 and 4.4. 6.
This supporting evidence must include the results of tests carried out by the appropriate laboratory of the manufacturer or on his behalf. 6.3.
The notified body must examine the application and where the design meets the provisions of the TSI that apply to it must issue a design examination certificate to the applicant.
Modifications to the approved design must receive additional approval from the notified body that issued the design examination certificate where such changes may affect the conformity with the requirements of the TSI or the prescribed conditions for use of the product.
The applicant will apply for such a prolongation by a written confirmation that no such modifications have been made, and the notified body issues a prolongation for another period of validity as in point 6.3 if no contrary information exists.
This procedure can be reiterated. 7.
Each notified body must communicate to the other notified bodies the relevant information concerning the quality system approvals and the design examination certificates that it has withdrawn or refused.
The other notified bodies will receive copies of: - the quality system approvals and additional approvals issued and - the design examination certificates and additions issued on request. 8.
The declaration must be written in the same language of the technical file and must contain the following: - the Directive references (Directive 96/48/EC and other directives to which the interoperability constituent may be subject), - the name and address of the manufacturer or his authorised representative established within the Community (give trade name and full address and in the case of authorised representative also give the trade name of the manufacturer or constructor), - description of interoperability constituent (make, type, etc) - description of the procedure (module) followed in order to declare conformity, - all of the relevant descriptions met by the interoperability constituent and in particular its conditions of use, - name and address of notified body(ies) involved in the procedure followed in respect of conformity and date of examination certificates together with the duration and conditions of validity of the certificate, - reference to this TSI and other applicable TSIs and where appropriate to European specifications, - identification of signatory having received power to engage the manufacturer or his authorised representative established within the Community.
The certificates to be referred to are: - the quality system approval and surveillance reports indicated in points 3 and 4, - the design examination certificate and its additions. 9.
The manufacturer or his authorised representative established within the Community must keep a copy of the EC declaration of conformity for a period of 10 years after the last interoperability constituent has been manufactured.
If additional to the EC declaration of conformity an EC declaration of suitability for use for the interoperability constituent is requested in the TSI, this declaration has to be added, after being issued by the manufacturer under the conditions of module V.
MODULE SG (UNIT VERIFICATION) EC verification of the energy subsystem 1.
This module describes the EC verification procedure whereby a notified body checks and certifies, at the request of an adjudicating entity or its authorised representative established within the Community, that an energy subsystem: - complies with this TSI and any other applicable TSI, which demonstrates that the essential requirements of Directive 96/48/EC have been met, - complies with the other regulations deriving from the Treaty and may be put into service. 2.
The adjudicating entity or its authorised representative established within the Community must lodge an application for EC verification (through unit verification) of the subsystem with a notified body of his choice.
The application includes: - name and address of the adjudicating entity or its authorised representative, - the technical documentation. 3.
It must include: - a general description of the subsystem, overall design and structure, - the register of infrastructure, including all indications as specified in the TSI, - conceptual design and manufacturing drawings and schemes of subassemblies, circuits, etc., - technical documentation as regards the manufacturing and the assembling of the subsystem, - the technical design specifications, including European specifications, that have been applied, - the necessary supporting evidence for their adequacy, in particular where European specifications referred to in the TSI and the relevant clauses have not been applied in full, - a list of the interoperability constituents, to be incorporated into the subsystem, - a list of manufacturers, involved in the subsystem's design, manufacturing, assembling and installation, - a list of the European specifications referred to in the TSI or in the technical design specification.
The examinations, tests and checking shall extend to the following stages as provided for in the TSI: - overall design - structure of subsystem, including, in particular and when relevant, civil-engineering activities, constituent assembly and, overall adjustments, - final testing of the subsystem, - and, whenever specified in the TSI, the validation under full operational conditions. 5.
The notified body may agree with the adjudicating entity the locations where the tests will be carried out and may agree that final subsystem tests and, whenever required in the TSI, tests in full operating conditions, are carried out by the adjudicating entity under direct supervision and attendance of the notified body. 6.
The declaration must be written in the same language of the technical file and must contain at least the information included in Annex V to Directive 96/48/EC. 8.
The technical file has to include at least the information indicated in Directive 96/48/EC, Article 18(3), and in particular as follows: - all necessary documents relating to the characteristics of the subsystem, - list of interoperability constituents incorporated into the subsystem, - copies of the EC declarations of conformity and, where appropriate, of the EC declarations of suitability for use, which said constituents must be provided in accordance with Article 13 of the Directive, accompanied, where appropriate, by the corresponding documents (certificates, quality system approval and surveillance documents) issued by the notified bodies on the basis of the TSI, - all elements relating to conditions and limits for use, - all elements relating to the instructions concerning servicing, constant or routine monitoring, adjustment and maintenance, - certificate of EC verification of the notified body as mentioned under point 7, accompanied by corresponding calculation notes and countersigned by itself, stating that the project complies with the Directive and the TSI, and mentioning, where appropriate, reservations recorded during performance of activities and not withdrawn; the certificate should also be accompanied, if relevant, by the inspection and audit reports drawn up in connection with the verification, - the register of infrastructure, including all indications as specified in the TSI. 9.
The complete records accompanying the certificate of EC verification must be lodged with the adjudicating entity or its authorised representative in support of the certificate of EC verification issued by the notified body and must be attached to the EC declaration of verification drawn up by the adjudicating entity intended for the supervisory authority. 10.
This module describes the EC verification procedure whereby a notified body checks and certifies, at the request of an adjudicating entity or its authorised representative established within the Community, that an energy subsystem: - complies with this TSI and any other applicable TSI, which demonstrates that the essential requirements of Directive 96/48/EC have been met, - complies with the other regulations deriving from the Treaty and may be put into service.
The notified body carries out the procedure, including a design examination of the subsystem under the condition that the adjudicating entity and the manufacturers involved satisfy the obligations of point 2. 2.
The main contractor responsible for the whole subsystem project (including in particular responsibility for subsystem integration), must operate in any case an approved quality system for design, manufacture and final product inspection and testing, as specified in point 3 and which shall be subject to surveillance as specified in point 4.
In the case, that the adjudicating entity is directly involved in the design and/or production (including assembling and installation), or that the adjudicating entity itself is responsible for the whole subsystem project (including in particular responsibility for subsystem integration), it has to operate an approved quality system for those activities, as specified in point 3 and subject to surveillance as specified in point 4. 3.
Quality system 3.1.
The application must include: - all relevant information for the subsystem envisaged, - the quality system's documentation.
For manufacturers, only involved in a part of the subsystem project, the information is only requested for that specific relevant part. 3.2.
This quality system documentation shall ensure a common understanding of the quality policies and procedures such as quality programmes, plans, manuals and records.
It must contain in particular an adequate description of the following items: - for all applicants: - the quality objectives and the organisational structure, - the corresponding manufacturing, quality control and quality assurance techniques, processes and systematic actions that will be used, - the examinations, the checking and tests that will be carried out before, during and after manufacture, assembling and installation and the frequency with which they will be carried out, - the quality records, such as inspection reports and test data, calibration data, qualification reports of the personnel concerned, etc., - for the main contractor and for the sub-suppliers (only as far as relevant for their specific contribution to the subsystem project): - the technical design specifications, including European specifications, that will be applied and, where the European specifications referred to in Article 10 of the Directive will not be applied in full, the means that will be used to ensure that the requirements of the TSI that apply to the subsystem will be met, - the design control and design verification techniques, processes and systematic actions that will be used when designing the subsystem, - the means to monitor the achievement of the required design and subsystem quality and the effective operation of the quality system, - and for the main contractor: - responsibilities and powers of the management with regard to overall design and subsystem quality, including in particular the subsystem integration management.
The examinations, tests and checking shall cover all of the following stages: - overall design, - structure of subsystem, including, in particular, civil-engineering activities, constituent assembly, final adjustment, - final testing of the subsystem, - and, where specified in the TSI, the validation under full operation conditions. 3.3.
The notified body referred to in point 3.1 must assess the quality system to determine whether it satisfies the requirements referred to in point 3.2.
For applicants, who are only involved in assembling and installation, the harmonised standard shall be EN ISO 9001 - December 2000, completed if necessary to take into consideration the specificity of the subsystem for which it is implemented.
The notification must contain the conclusions of the examination and the reasoned assessment decision. 3.4.
The notified body must evaluate the modifications proposed and decide whether the amended quality system will still satisfy the requirements referred to in point 3.2 or whether a re-assessment is required.
The notification shall contain the conclusions of the examination and the reasoned assessment decision. 4.
Surveillance of the quality system(s) under the responsibility of the notified body(ies) 4.1.
The manufacturer(s) and, if involved the adjudicating entity must, for a period of 10 years after the last subsystem has been manufactured, keep at the disposal of the national authorities: - the documentation referred to in the second indent of the second subparagraph of point 3.1, - the updating referred to in the second subparagraph of point 3.4, - the decisions and reports from the notified body which are referred to in the final subparagraph of point 3.4, points 4.4 and 4.5. 6.
It must include: - the technical design specifications, including European specifications, that have been applied, - the necessary supporting evidence for their adequacy, in particular where the European specifications referred to in the TSI have not been applied in full.
This supporting evidence must include the results of tests carried out by the appropriate laboratory of the manufacturer or on his behalf, - the energy subsystem register, including all indications as specified in the TSI, - the technical documentation as regards the manufacturing and the assembling of the subsystem, - a list of the interoperability constituents, to be incorporated into the subsystem, - a list of all manufacturers, involved in the subsystem's design, manufacturing, assembling and installation, - the demonstration, that all stages, as mentioned under point 3.2, are covered by quality systems of the manufacturer(s) and/or of the adjudicating entity involved, and the evidence of their effectiveness, - indication of the notified body(ies), responsible for the approval and surveillance of these quality systems. 6.3.
The report shall contain the conclusions of the design examination, conditions for its validity, the necessary data for identification of the design examined and, if relevant, a description of the subsystem's functioning. 6.4.
If the compliance of the subsystem with the requirements of the TSI is based on more than one quality system, it has to examine in particular: - if the relations and interfaces between the quality systems are clearly documented, - and if overall responsibilities and powers of the management for the compliance of the whole entire subsystem for the main contractor are sufficiently and properly defined. 6.5.
The notified body responsible for the EC verification, if not carrying out the surveillance of the quality system(s) concerned as under point 4, must coordinate the surveillance activities of any other notified body responsible for that task, in order to be ensured that correct management of interfaces between the different quality systems in view of subsystem integration has been performed.
This coordination includes the right of the notified body responsible for the EC verification: - to receive all documentation (approval and surveillance), issued by the other notified body(ies), - to witness the surveillance audits as under point 4.4, - to initiate additional audits as under point 4.5 under its responsibility and together with the other notified body(ies). 6.6.
The declaration must be written in the same language of the technical file and must contain at least the information included in Annex V to Directive 96/48/EC. 6.7.
The technical file has to include at least the information indicated in Directive 96/48/EC, Article 18(3), and in particular as follows: - all necessary documents relating to the characteristics of the subsystem, - list of interoperability constituents incorporated into the subsystem, - copies of the EC declarations of conformity and, where appropriate, of the EC declarations of suitability for use, which said constituents must be provided in accordance with Article 13 of the Directive, accompanied, where appropriate, by the corresponding documents (certificates, quality system approval and surveillance documents) issued by the notified bodies on the basis of the TSI, - all elements relating to the conditions and limits for use, - all elements relating to the instructions concerning servicing, constant or routine monitoring, adjustment and maintenance, - certificate of EC verification of the notified body as mentioned under point 6.6, accompanied by corresponding calculation notes and countersigned by itself, stating that the project complies with the Directive and the TSI, and mentioning, where appropriate, reservations recorded during performance of the activities and not withdrawn; the certificate should also be accompanied by the inspection and audit reports drawn up in connection with the verification, as mentioned under points 4.4, and 4.5, - the energy subsystem register, including all indications as specified in the TSI. 7.
The complete records accompanying the certificate of EC verification must be lodged with the adjudicating entity or its authorised representative in support of the certificate of EC verification issued by the notified body and must be attached to the EC declaration of verification drawn up by the adjudicating entity intended for the supervisory authority. 8.
ANNEX B ASSESSMENT OF INTEROPERABILITY CONSTITUENTS B.1.
SCOPE This Annex indicates the assessment of conformity of interoperability constituents (overhead contact line, pantograph and contact strip) of the energy subsystem.
ANNEX C ASSESSMENT OF THE ENERGY SUBSYSTEM C.1.
CHARACTERISTICS AND MODULES The characteristics of the subsystem to be assessed in the different phases of design, installation and operation are marked by an X in Table C.1.
ANNEX D REGISTER OF INFRASTRUCTURE, INFORMATION ON THE ENERGY SUBSYSTEM D.1.
SCOPE This Annex covers the information concerning the energy subsystem to be included in the register of infrastructure for each homogeneous section of interoperable lines which has to be established according to point 4.2.3.5.
Table D.1 Information to be given in the register of infrastructure by the adjudicating entity %gt%TABLE%gt% ANNEX E COORDINATION OF ELECTRICAL PROTECTION SUBSTATIONS/TRACTION UNITS E.1.
In such a case, the sub-station circuit breakers may only be re-closed after the tripping of the circuit breakers on the traction units present in the zone supplied by the sub-station.
The traction unit circuit breakers shall trip automatically as explained in point E 4 hereafter.
Note 1: see Annex N to this TSI.
DC ELECTRIFICATION SYSTEMS: TRANSIENT CURRENT DURING CLOSURE This provision is only applicable to DC traction units fitted with an input filter.
ANNEX F TYPE OF LINE F.1.
SCOPE This Annex covers both: - lines generally equipped for speeds of 250 km/h and above, and - lines upgraded for speeds of approximately 200 km/h.
Power of train at the pantograph Maximum continuous power in MW demanded by the train taking into account power for traction (from effort/speed curve), regeneration and auxiliaries.
General Table F.1 provides information common to all electrification systems.
For high-speed lines the following is assumed: V %amp%gt;= 250 km/h; the electrification systems chosen are AC 25 kV 50 Hz and AC 15 kV 16,7 Hz.
For upgraded and connecting lines, Table F.1 covers all the electrification systems in use in Europe, regardless of line speed.
Table F.1 Type of lines %gt%TABLE%gt% ANNEX G POWER FACTOR OF A TRAIN G.1.
SCOPE This Annex applies to trains designed for interoperable traffic on lines of the trans-European high-speed rail system.
DEFINITION OF POWER FACTOR The total power factor λ is defined by %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% where: α= is the deformation factor and φ= the phase angle.
Objective This point deals with inductive power factor and power consumption over the range of voltage between Umin1 and Umax1 defined in Annex N to this TSI.
Table G.1 Total power factor λ of a train %gt%TABLE%gt% For yards or depot, when a train is stationary, with traction power off, and the active power taken from the overhead line is greater than 10 kW per vehicle, the total power factor resulting from the train load shall not be less than 0,8, but with a target value of 0,9.
OBJECTIVES This Annex supplements the basic parameters specified for lines supplied by AC systems.
GEOMETRICAL REQUIREMENTS H.3.1.
Overhead contact lines In Table H.1 the geometrical requirements are given together with tolerances.
Table H.1 Geometry of overhead contact lines %gt%TABLE%gt% H.3.2.
Pantographs In Table H.2 the geometrical requirements for a pantograph suitable for the trans-European high-speed rail system are presented.
Figure H.1 shows details of the pantograph collector head.
Phase separation sections Two types of phase separation section are discussed.
In case of the arrangement according to figure H.2 the neutral section is longer than the distance between the farthest pantograph in operation on an interoperable train which is 400 m.
Figure H.3 Arrangement of phase separation with short neutral section %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2002245EN.033901.TIF%quot%%gt% Length D %amp%lt; 142 m Overlapping sections C: pantograph in contact with two contact wires.
The total length shall be at least 402 m.
Figure H.4 Arrangement of system separation section with long neutral section %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2002245EN.033902.TIF%quot%%gt% H.3.5.
Arrangement of pantograph on trains To negotiate the specified types of phase separations the maximum spacing of pantographs is 400 m, which is the maximum train length.
In addition the spacing of three constructive pantographs must be more than 143 m.
Dynamic envelope for pantograph passage Figure H.6 shows the dimensions for the space necessary for passage of Euro pantographs on interoperable lines.
In addition to this space the infrastructure shall take account of the space necessary for installation of the contact line itself and the necessary safety clearances.
In figure H.6 the width L1 refers to the contact wire height of 5,0 m while L2 depends on the contact wire height as applicable for a specific line.
The value L2 is %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% where the maximum track gauge is assumed to be 1,45 m The cant C, the radius R and the dimension H are measured in metres.
Figure H.6 Dynamic envelope for passage of pantographs on interoperable lines %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2002245EN.034001.TIF%quot%%gt% Table H.3 shows as an example the relations between track radius, cant and dimensions L1 and L2 for high-speed lines with a track radius of more than 3000 m.
The dimension H is the sum of the contact wire height CWH and the provision S for uplift.
Table H.3 Dimensions for dynamic envelope for pantograph passage for high-speed lines (examples, track radius more than 3000 m) %gt%TABLE%gt% ANNEX J OVERHEAD LINE EQUIPMENT, GEOMETRICAL INTERACTION OF OVERHEAD LINES AND PANTOGRAPHS, DC SYSTEMS J.1.
OBJECTIVES This Annex supplements the basic parameters specified for lines supplied by DC systems.
GEOMETRICAL REQUIREMENTS J.3.1.
Overhead contact lines In Table J.1 the geometrical requirements are listed together with tolerances.
Table J.1 Geometry of overhead contact lines %gt%TABLE%gt% J.3.2.
Figure J.1 shows details of the pantograph collector head.
Table J.2 Geometry of pantograph collector head %gt%TABLE%gt% Figure J.1 Profile of current collector head %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2002245EN.034201.TIF%quot%%gt% 1 Horn made of insulating material 2 Minimum length of the contact strip 3 Projected length 4 Working range of the collector head 5 Width of the collector head J.3.3.
ANNEX K REGENERATIVE BRAKING K.1.
If feedback energy absorption by other consumers is not available, rolling stock shall revert to other brake systems.
The adjudicating entity shall ask the power supply authority to accept the feedback of braking energy into the supply network, when the energy cannot be absorbed by other railway consumers.
ANNEX L VOLTAGE AT THE PANTOGRAPH (QUALITY INDEX OF POWER SUPPLY) L.1.
These installations should allow the most severe conditions, as specified in the timetable to be satisfied through: - the most dense operating period in the timetable, corresponding to peak traffic, - the characteristics of the different types of train involved, taking account of the selected traction units.
This Annex covers both: - high-speed lines designed for speeds of 250 km/h and above, and - lines upgraded for speeds of approximately 200 km/h.
VALUES RECOMMENDED FOR MEAN USEFUL VOLTAGE AT THE PANTOGRAPH The minimum values for mean useful voltage Umean useful at the pantograph are given in Table L.1: Table L.1 Minimum mean useful voltage at pantograph (kV) %gt%TABLE%gt% L.5.
RELATION BETWEEN MEAN USEFUL VOLTAGE Umean useful AND Umin1 The designing of the power supply shall be conducted in such a way that the simulations enabling mean useful voltage Umean useful at the pantograph to be computed, never generate instantaneous voltage values at the pantograph of any train lower than the limit Umin1 from Annex N to this TSI for traffic corresponding to the type of line concerned (see Annex F to this TSI).
SELECTION CRITERIA DETERMINING THE VOLTAGE AT THE PANTOGRAPH FOR HIGH-SPEED TRAINS The design of fixed installations for electric traction can be obtained by simulating the critical timetable taking into account the power drawn by each train in the simulation at each time interval.
For example, in order to study electrification with 25 kV, the selection of a voltage of at least 22,5 kV makes it possible, not to drop statistically below the minimum limit of 19 kV.
The selection of the correct mean useful voltage presents the following advantages. - It allows the traction units to function close to their nominal voltage, hence optimising efficiency and performance. - It ensures that the values of minimum voltage specified by the standards are respected. - It reflects the fact that the fixed installations for electric traction have the correct performance and that, as a result, increased traffic volumes can be considered. - It allows certain impaired traffic situations to be dealt with.
CALCULATION OF MEAN USEFUL VOLTAGE AT THE PANTOGRAPH The mean useful voltage Umean useful at the pantograph is defined as follows: %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2002245EN.034601.TIF%quot%%gt% where: Tj= integration or study period on train number j, n= number of trains considered in the study.
For AC systems: Upj= momentary rms voltage at power frequency at the pantograph of train number j, |Ipj|= module of momentary rms current at power frequency flowing through the pantograph of train number j.
Umean useful (zone) %gt%TABLE%gt% L.8.2.
Umean useful (train) %gt%TABLE%gt% L.8.3.
Relation between Umean useful and Umin1 %gt%TABLE%gt% ANNEX M TEST AND VERIFICATION OF CONTACT STRIPS M.1.
SCOPE This Annex applies to tests and verification of collector strips to be used on pantographs for interoperable high-speed traffic.
CONTACT STRIPS M.2.1.
General The type of contact strip used shall be in accordance with following: - current capacity, - static force, - contact strip material.
Note: If mixed material for collector strips in the networks will be used, the wear of collector strips and contact wire could increase.
CURRENT AT STANDSTILL M.3.1.
The current conveyed by the pantograph shall be related to the maximum consumption of the rolling stock with the limits specified in point 5.3.3.4.
Each test shall last for 30 minutes unless the temperature displayed by one of the sensors reaches the maximum permissible value for the contact wires.
This value shall be specified by the adjudicating entity.
Testing shall be deemed to be satisfactory if the maximum temperature of the contact wires after 30 minutes is not higher than the limit value stipulated.
In each configuration the maximum current intensity during the relevant measurements shall be transferred for 30 minutes.
After each cycle the condition of the collector strips shall be inspected and the extent of wear (mm/1000 km) determined so that their running performance can be assessed.
Testing shall be deemed to be satisfactory when no defects are detected which can impair the running performance of the collector strips and when the extent of wear complies with the running performance indicated in the TSI Energy.
ANNEX N VOLTAGE AND FREQUENCY OF TRACTION SYSTEMS N.1.
Table N.1 Nominal voltages and their permissible limits in values and duration %gt%TABLE%gt% - The voltage of the busbar at the substation with all line circuit breakers open shall be lower or equal than Umax1. - Under normal operating conditions voltages shall stay within the range between Umin1 and Umax2.
Note: Recommended values for undervoltage tripping: The setting of undervoltage relays at fixed points or on board may be from 85 % to 95 % of Umin2.
Table N.2 Frequency on railway power system and their permissible limits %gt%TABLE%gt% n.a.: not applicable.
TEST METHODOLOGY N.4.1.
Fixed installations %gt%TABLE%gt% N.4.2.
SCOPE This Annex gives requirements for current and power limitation devices on board traction units.
Table O.1 Maximum allowable train current (Amperes) %gt%TABLE%gt% O.3.
Figure O.1 gives current as a function of the overhead contact line voltage.
This figure does not apply in regenerative braking mode.
ANNEX P HARMONIC CHARACTERISTICS AND RELATED OVERVOLTAGES ON THE OVERHEAD CONTACT LINE P.1.
SCOPE This Annex defines the necessary requirements to avoid unacceptable overvoltages on the overhead contact line caused by harmonics generated by traction units.
Normally the potential oscillations caused by instabilities are in the frequency range of up to about 500 Hz (bandwidth of the relevant controllers).
An amplification of strong harmonics may lead to significant overvoltages, either at the vehicle's location or at a completely different location in the network.
More than 100 times could be the ratio between maximum and minimum current recorded along the overhead contact line at specific resonance frequencies.
Compatibility between existing traction units and existing infrastructure, and future traction units and infrastructure components has to be checked towards the phenomena described in point P.2.
Involved bodies or parties are: - the adjudicating entity, - the train operator(s) of existing traffic, - the purchaser/owner of the new traction unit(s) or infrastructure equipment, - the manufacturer of the new traction unit(s) or infrastructure equipment.
Furthermore, a general and simple characterisation for all types of fixed installations that is appropriate for the compatibility case (point P.6) can not be given.
COMPATIBILITY STUDY The compatibility study (or compatibility case) is a process to demonstrate the compatibility of the new rolling stock or the new infrastructure component with the existing traction units and power supply network.
The flow chart is applicable for new rolling stock and also new infrastructure power supply components.
The adjudicating entity is responsible for characterisation of infrastructure and overall network as described in points P.4 and P.5.
METHODOLOGY AND ACCEPTANCE CRITERIA The compatibility case, which is described in point P.5, shall demonstrate that the existing rail system and the new element(s) are compatible.
SCOPE This Annex gives requirements and test method concerning the dynamic interaction between pantograph and overhead contact line.
The contact force is the sum of forces for all contact points of one pantograph.
Maximum force: the maximum value of the contact force.
Overhead contact line: a contact line placed above (or beside) the upper limit of the vehicle gauge and supplying vehicles with electric energy through roof - mounted current collection equipment (IEC 50811-33-02).
INTERACTION PERFORMANCE Q.4.1.
Mean contact force for intermediate period Figure Q.1 Adjustment curve C1 %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2002245EN.036301.TIF%quot%%gt% Figure Q.2 Adjustment curve C2 %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2002245EN.036401.TIF%quot%%gt% Q.4.2.
Requirements for output and validation of measurements of the dynamic interaction between pantograph and overhead contact line Q.4.2.1.
Note: Measured values are also required for validation of simulation programs and other measurement systems.
The measurement deviation of the force sensors caused by the temperature shall be less than 10 N (for the sum of the force of all sensors) under all measuring conditions.
The maximum error of the measurement system shall be less than 10 %.
Influence of the measurement system The measurement system shall not have any effects on the measured force which could change the result by more than 5 %.
Note: The aerodynamic influence can be checked by a tethered test online.
Note: The aerodynamic test may be carried out during a line test.
The ratio between the applied and the measured forces (the transfer function of the pantograph and instrumentation) shall be determined by a dynamic excitation of the pantograph, at the pantograph head for a range of frequencies.
Note: If a sinusoidal force is used, an amplitude (peak to peak) of 30 % of the static force gives representative results.
The tests shall be carried out for the two cases: - the force being applied centrally to the pantograph head, - the force being applied 250 mm from the centre line of the pantograph head, if possible.
The test shall be carried out with the pantograph head at the height of interest.
Measurements of the applied force and the measured force shall be taken at frequencies up to 20 Hz in 0,5 Hz steps, with reduced intervals at resonant frequencies.
Note: The transfer function is a continuous function with greater variations close to the resonant frequencies.
The accuracy of the transfer function shall be calculated by using the following formula: %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% The transfer function of the pantograph force measurement system shall have an accuracy of greater than 80 % up to a frequency limit of 10 Hz without any correction.
For the use for measurement of dynamic interaction between pantograph and overhead contact system the accuracy of the transfer function of the measurement systems shall be greater than 90 % up to a frequency limit of 20 Hz (in accordance with the general requirements).
The contact force shall be low pass filtered with a cut-off frequency of 20 Hz.
The measuring range shall be at least: - for AC-pantographs: from 0 N to 500 N, - for DC-pantographs: from 0 N to 700 N.
For calculating statistical values the control section should not be shorter than a tension length.
As a minimum the following statistic values shall be calculated for a control section: - mean value (Fm), - maximum value, - minimum value, - standard deviation (σ), - histogram or probability curve of the contact force.
Measurements of displacement The measurement system shall not have any effects on the measured displacement which could change the result by more than 3 %.
Uplift at the support The error of the measurement system shall be smaller than 5 mm.
The accuracy of the measurement system shall be better than 10 mm.
Measurement of other displacements in the overhead contact line The accuracy of the measurement system shall be better than 10 % of the amplitude of the measured value or less than or equal to 10 mm, which ever is gives a higher accuracy.
The measurement system shall be insensitive to visible light with wavelength greater than 330 nm.
The detector shall: - be close enough to the pantograph to get a sufficiently high sensitivity, - be close enough to the vehicle's longitudinal axis to get a sufficiently high sensitivity, - be located behind the pantograph according to the travel direction of the vehicle, - aim at the trailing contact strip according to the travel direction, - be sensitive for a field of view over the whole working area of the pantograph head; the tolerance for this sensitivity shall be better than 10 %, - have a response time to the beginning and ending of an arc of less than 100 µs, - have a detection threshold, depending on the minimum arc energy which shall be measured.
Figure Q.3 gives an example of the side view of the location of a detector.
This sensitivity curve represents the relationship between the response in volts of the detector, and the power density in µW/cm2.
This response is measured at the analogue output of the detector.
Note: For example this value shall be at 5 m: - 160 μW/cm2 + 10 % under 25 kV overhead contact line, - 12,5 μW/cm2 + 10 % under 1,5 kV overhead contact line.
This shall be carried out as follows: - determine the power density of the smallest arc that can be detected at this distance in accordance the 1/d2 law, - use the calibration values to determine the signal corresponding to this power density level, - consequently, the new value of power density threshold to be detected is a function of the new distance (d) owing to the relation %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% Note: An arc is considered to be a point source and consequently the power density is proportional to 1/d2 (see figure Q.3).
When analysing the measurements, parts with a pantograph current below 30 % of the nominal current of the pantograph shall be disregarded.
As a minimum for the control section the following values shall be produced: - train speed, - the number of arcs, - the sum of the duration of all arcs, - the largest arc duration, - the total time with a pantograph current greater than 30 % of the nominal current per train per pantograph, - the total run time for the control section, - the percentage of arcing.
Note 1: Another possible criterion is the number of arcs per km with a pantograph current greater than 30 % of the nominal current.
Note 2: The control section should not be shorter than 10 km and should be travelled at a constant speed with a tolerance of ± 2,5 km/h.
Note 3: To get representative results for the overhead contact line the total time with a pantograph current greater than 30 % of the nominal current should not be shorter than the time taken to travel over one tension length.
