The compliance of such transportable pressure equipment with these provisions shall be established by a notified body exclusively in accordance with the conformity assessment procedures set out in Annex IV, Part I, and specified in Annex V. 2.
Should Directive 94/55/EC and 96/49/EC not contain any detailed technical provisions for the valves and accessories referred to in paragraph 3, such valves and accessories must meet the requirements of Directive 97/23/EC and, pursuant to that Directive, be subject to a category II, III or IV conformity assessment procedure as laid down in Article 10 of Directive 97/23/EC according to whether the receptacle or tank belongs to category 1, 2 or 3 as laid down in Annex V to this Directive. 5.
Article 4 Conformity assessment for the placing on the national market of new transportable pressure equipment 1.
Transportable pressure equipment the conformity of which has been assessed by an approved body may not bear the marking described in Article 10(1). 3.
The procedures applicable to conformity assessment by approved bodies shall be modules A1, C1, F and G, as described in Annex IV, Part I. 5.
Article 5 Reassessment of conformity for existing transportable pressure equipment 1.
No Member States shall prohibit, restrict or impede the placing on the market or putting into service on its territory of transportable pressure equipment referred to in Article 1(2)(b) which complies with this Directive and bears the relevant mark provided for in Article 10(1).
Periodic inspections of the receptacles, including their valves and accessories used for transport, referred to in Article 1(2)(c) shall be arranged by a notified or approved body in accordance with the procedure set out in Annex IV, Part III.
However, Member States may permit periodic inspections of tanks carried out on their territory also to be performed by the approved bodies which have been recognised for carrying out periodic inspections of tanks and which act under the supervision of a body notified under the procedure provided for in Annex IV, Part III, Module 2 concerning periodic inspection through quality assurance. 2.
Article 7 National provisions 1.
A Member State in which the ambient temperature is regularly lower than - 20 °C may impose more stringent standards as regards the operating temperature of material intended for use in the national transport of dangerous goods within its territory until provisions on the appropriate reference temperatures for given climatic zones are incorporated in the Annexes to Directives 94/55/EC and 96/49/EC.
Article 8 Notified bodies 1.
Article 9 Approved bodies 1.
Article 10 Marking 1.
For transportable pressure equipment complying with Article 7(2), the identification number of the notified or approved body shall be followed by %quot%- 40 °C%quot%. 2.
New valves and other accessories having a direct safety function shall bear either the mark provided for in Annex VII hereto or that provided for in Annex VI to Directive 97/23/EC.
With regard to gas cylinders covered by Directives 84/525/EEC, 84/526/EEC and 84/527/EEC, when the first periodic inspection is carried out in accordance with this Directive, the aforementioned identification number shall be preceded by the mark described in Annex VII. 4.
For both conformity assessment and reassessment and for periodic inspections, the identification number of the notified or approved body shall be visibly and immovably affixed under its responsibility either by the body itself or by the manufacturer, or his authorised representative established within the Community, or by the owner or his authorised representative established in the Community, or by the holder. 5.
Article 11 Safeguard clause 1.
It shall forthwith inform the Commission of any such measure, indicating the reasons for its decision. 2.
Where the Commission considers, after this consultation, that the measure is unjustified, it shall immediately so inform the Member State which took the initiative and the owner or his authorised representative established in the Community or the holder, or the manufacturer or his authorised representative established within the Community. 3.
Where transportable pressure equipment which does not comply bears the marking provided for in Article 10, the competent Member State shall take appropriate action against the person(s) who affixed the marking and shall so inform the Commission and the other Member States. 4.
Article 12 Undue marking Without prejudice to Article 11, where a Member State establishes that the marking described in Annex VII has been affixed unduly, the owner or his authorised representative established in the Community or the holder, or the manufacturer or his authorised representative established within the Community, shall be obliged to make the transportable pressure equipment conform as regards the provisions concerning the marking and to end the infringement under the conditions imposed by the Member State.
Article 13 Decisions leading to refusal or restriction Any decision taken pursuant to this Directive which has the effect of restricting the placing on the market, transport or use or requires the withdrawal from the market or from circulation of transportable pressure equipment shall state the exact grounds on which it is based.
Article 14 Committee The amendments necessary for adapting the Annexes to this Directive shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 15.
Where reference is made to the procedure provided for in this Article, the Commission shall be assisted by the Committee on the transport of dangerous goods set up under Article 9 of Directive 94/55/EC, hereinafter referred to as %quot%the Committee%quot%, composed of representatives of the Member States and chaired by a representative of the Commission. 2.
The Commission shall adopt the measures envisaged if they are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee.
Article 16 Adoption and publication 1.
Article 17 Implementation 1.
Article 19 Penalties Member States shall lay down a system of penalties for breaches of the national provisions adopted pursuant to this Directive and shall take all the measures necessary to ensure that those penalties are applied.
The provisions of Directive 76/767/EEC(14) shall no longer apply from 1 July 2001 or, in the case of Article 18, within two years of that date, for transportable pressure equipment falling within the scope of this Directive.
Article 21 This Directive shall enter into fore on the day of its publication on the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Article 22 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Luxembourg, 29 April 1999.
ANNEX I MINIMUM CRITERIA TO BE MET BY NOTIFIED OR APPROVED BODIES, AS REFERRED TO IN ARTICLES 8 AND 9 1.
ANNEX II SUPPLEMENTARY CRITERIA TO BE MET BY THE NOTIFIED BODIES REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE 8 1.
ANNEX III SUPPLEMENTARY CRITERIA TO BE MET BY THE APPROVED BODIES REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE 9 1.
ANNEX IV PART I CONFORMITY ASSESSMENT PROCEDURES Module A (internal production control) 1.
This module describes the procedure whereby the manufacturer, or his authorised representative established within the Community who carries out the obligations laid down in point 2, ensures and declares that transportable pressure equipment satisfies the requirements of the Directive which apply to it.
The manufacturer, or his authorised representative established within the Community, must affix the Π marking to all transportable pressure equipment and draw up a written declaration of conformity. 2.
The technical documentation must enable an assessment to be made of the conformity of the transportable pressure equipment with the requirements of the Directive which apply to it.
It must, as far as is relevant for such assessment, cover the design, manufacture and operation of the transportable pressure equipment and contain: - a general description of the transportable pressure equipment, - conceptual design and manufacturing drawings and diagrams of components, sub-assemblies, circuits, etc., - descriptions and explanations necessary for an understanding of the said drawings and diagrams and the operation of the transportable pressure equipment, - a description of the solutions adopted to meet the requirements of the Directive, - results of the design calculations, examinations carried out, etc., - test reports. 4.
Module B (EC type-examination) 1.
The application for EC type-examination must be lodged by the manufacturer or by his authorised representative established within the Community with a single notified body of his choice.
The application must include: - the name and address of the manufacturer and, if the application is lodged by the authorised representative established within the Community, his name and address as well, - a written declaration that the same application has not been lodged with any other notified body, - the technical documentation described in point 3.
The technical documentation must enable an assessment to be made of the conformity of the transportable pressure equipment with the requirements of the Directive which apply to it.
It must, as far as is relevant for such assessment, cover the design, manufacture and operation of the transportable pressure equipment and contain: - a general description of the type, - conceptual design and manufacturing drawings and diagrams of components, sub-assemblies, circuits, etc., - descriptions and explanations necessary for an understanding of the said drawings and diagrams and the operation of the transportable pressure equipment, - a description of the solutions adopted to meet the essential requirements of the Directive, - results of the design calculations made, examinations carried out, etc., - test reports, - information concerning the tests provided for in manufacture, - information concerning the qualifications or approvals. 4.
The notified body must: 4.1.
In particular, the notified body must: - examine the technical documentation with respect to the design and the manufacturing procedures, - assess the materials used where these are not in conformity with the relevant provisions of the Directive and check the certificate issued by the materials manufacturer, - approve the procedures for the permanent joining of pressure equipment parts or check that they have been previously approved, - verify that the staff undertaking the permanent joining of pressure equipment parts and the non-destructive tests are qualified or approved, 4.2.
perform or have performed the appropriate examinations and necessary tests to establish whether the relevant provisions of the Directive have been applied; 4.4.
Provision must be made for an appeals procedure. 6.
Each notified body must communicate to the Member States the relevant information concerning EC type-examination certificates which it has withdrawn, and, on request, those it has issued.
Each notified body must also communicate to the other notified bodies the relevant information concerning the EC type-examination certificates it has withdrawn or refused. 8.
The manufacturer, or his authorised representative established within the Community, must keep with the technical documentation copies of EC type-examination certificates and their additions for a period of 10 years after the last of the transportable pressure equipment has been manufactured.
Module B1 (EC design examination) 1.
The manufacturer, or his authorised representative established within the Community, must lodge an application for EC design examination with a single notified body.
The application must include: - the name and address of the manufacturer and, if the application is lodged by the authorised representative established within the Community, his name and address as well, - a written declaration that the same application has not been lodged with any other notified body, - the technical documentation described in point 3.
The technical documentation must enable an assessment to be made of the conformity of the transportable pressure equipment with the requirements of the Directive which apply to it.
The notified body must: 4.1.
examine the technical documentation and identify the components which have been designed in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Directive.
In particular, the notified body must: - assess the materials used where these are not in conformity with the relevant provisions of the Directive, - approve the procedures for the permanent joining of pressure equipment parts or check that they have been previously approved, - verify that the staff undertaking the permanent joining of pressure equipment parts and the non-destructive tests are qualified or approved; 4.2.
Provision must be made for an appeals procedure. 6.
Each notified body must communicate to the Member States the relevant information concerning EC design-examination certificates which it has withdrawn, and, on request, those it has issued.
Each notified body must also communicate to the other notified bodies the relevant information concerning the EC type-examination certificates it has withdrawn or refused. 8.
The other notified bodies may on request obtain the relevant information concerning: - the EC design-examination certificates and additions granted, - the EC design-examination certificates and additions withdrawn. 9.
The manufacturer, or his authorised representative established within the Community, must keep with the technical documentation referred to in point 3 copies of EC design-examination certificates and their additions for a period of 10 years after the last of the transportable pressure equipment has been manufactured.
Module C1 (conformity to type) 1.
This module describes that part of the procedure whereby the manufacturer, or his authorised representative established within the Community, ensures and declares that transportable pressure equipment is in conformity with the type as described in the EC type-examination certificate and satisfies the requirements of the Directive which apply to it.
The manufacturer, or his authorised representative established within the Community, must affix the Π marking to all transportable pressure equipment and draw up a written declaration of conformity. 2.
The manufacturer must take all measures necessary to ensure that the manufacturing process requires the manufactured transportable pressure equipment to comply with the type as described in the EC type-examination certificate and with the requirements of the Directive which apply to it. 3.
Module D (production quality assurance) 1.
This module describes the procedure whereby the manufacturer who satisfies the obligations of point 2 ensures and declares that the transportable pressure equipment concerned is in conformity with the type described in the EC type-examination certificate and satisfies the requirements of the Directive which apply to it.
The manufacturer, or his authorised representative established within the Community, must affix the Π marking to all transportable pressure equipment and draw up a written declaration of conformity.
The Π marking must be accompanied by the identification number of the notified body responsible for Community surveillance as specified in point 4. 2.
The manufacturer must operate an approved quality system for production, final inspection and testing as specified in point 3 and be subject to surveillance as specified in point 4. 3.
Quality system 3.1.
The application must include: - all relevant information on the transportable pressure equipment concerned, - the documentation concerning the quality system, - the technical documentation for the approved type and a copy of the EC type-examination certificate. 3.2.
The quality system must ensure compliance of the transportable pressure equipment with the type described in the EC type-examination certificate and with the requirements of the Directive which apply to it.
Provision must be made for an appeals procedure. 3.4.
The notified body must assess the proposed changes and decide whether the amended quality system will still satisfy the requirements referred to in 3.2 or whether a reassessment is required.
Surveillance under the responsibility of the notified body 4.1.
The manufacturer must allow the notified body access for inspection purposes to the locations of manufacture, inspection, testing and storage and provide it with all necessary information, in particular: - the quality system documentation, - the quality records, such as inspection reports and test data, calibration data, reports concerning the qualifications of the personnel concerned, etc. 4.3.
The notified body must provide the manufacturer with a visit report and, if a test has taken place, with a test report. 5.
The manufacturer must, for a period of 10 years after the last of the transportable pressure equipment has been manufactured, hold at the disposal of the national authorities: - the documentation referred to in the second indent of 3.1, - the adjustments referred to in the second paragraph of 3.4, - the decisions and reports from the notified body which are referred to in the last paragraph of 3.3, in the last paragraph of 3.4, and in 4.3 and 4.4. 6.
Each notified body must communicate to the Member States the relevant information concerning the quality system approvals which it has withdrawn, and, on request, those it has issued.
Each notified body must also communicate to the other notified bodies the relevant information concerning the quality system approvals it has withdrawn or refused.
Module D1 (production quality assurance) 1.
This module describes the procedure whereby the manufacturer who satisfies the obligations of point 3 ensures and declares that the items of transportable pressure equipment concerned satisfy the requirements of the Directive which apply to them.
The manufacturer, or his authorised representative established within the Community, must affix the Π marking to all transportable pressure equipment and draw up a written declaration of conformity.
The Π marking must be accompanied by the identification number of the notified body responsible for Community surveillance as specified in point 5. 2.
It must, as far as is relevant for such assessment, cover the design, manufacture and operation of the transportable pressure equipment and contain: - a general description of the equipment in question, - conceptual design and manufacturing drawings and diagrams of components, sub-assemblies, circuits, etc., - descriptions and explanations necessary for an understanding of the said drawings and diagrams and the operation of the equipment, - a description of the solutions adopted to meet the requirements of the Directive, - results of the design calculations made, examinations carried out, etc.; - test reports. 3.
The manufacturer must operate an approved quality system for production, final inspection and testing as specified in point 4 and be subject to surveillance as specified in point 5. 4.
Quality system 4.1.
The application must include: - all relevant information on the transportable pressure equipment concerned, - the documentation concerning the quality system. 4.2.
Provision must be made for an appeals procedure. 4.4.
The notified body must assess the proposed changes and decide whether the amended quality system will still satisfy the requirements referred to in 4.2 or whether a reassessment is required.
Surveillance under the responsibility of the notified body 5.1.
The manufacturer must allow the notified body access for inspection purposes to the locations of manufacture, inspection, testing and storage and provide it with all necessary information, in particular: - the quality system documentation, - the quality records, such as inspection reports and test data, calibration data, reports concerning the qualifications of the personnel concerned, etc. 5.3.
The notified body must provide the manufacturer with a visit report and, if a test has taken place, with a test report. 6.
The manufacturer must, for a period of 10 years after the last of the transportable pressure equipment has been manufactured, hold at the disposal of the national authorities: - the documentation referred to in point 2, - the documentation referred to in the second indent of 4.1, - the adjustments referred to in the second paragraph of 4.4, - the decisions and reports from the notified body which are referred to in the last paragraph of 4.3, in the last paragraph of 4.4, and in 5.3 and 5.4. 7.
Each notified body must communicate to the Member States the relevant information concerning the quality system approvals which it has withdrawn, and, on request, those it has issued.
Each notified body must communicate to the other notified bodies the relevant information concerning the quality system approvals it has withdrawn or refused.
Module E (product quality assurance) 1.
This module describes the procedure whereby the manufacturer who satisfies the obligations of point 2 ensures and declares that the item of transportable pressure equipment is in conformity with the type as described in the EC type-examination certificate and satisfies the requirements of the Directive which apply to it.
The manufacturer, or his authorised representative established within the Community, must affix the Π marking to each product and draw up a written declaration of conformity.
The Π marking must be accompanied by the identification number of the notified body responsible for Community surveillance as specified in point 4. 2.
The manufacturer must operate an approved quality system for production, final inspection and testing as specified in point 3 and be subject to surveillance as specified in point 4. 3.
Quality system 3.1.
The application must include: - all relevant information on the transportable pressure equipment concerned, - the documentation concerning the quality system, - the technical documentation for the approved type and a copy of the EC type-examination certificate. 3.2.
Under the quality system, each item of transportable pressure equipment must be examined and appropriate tests must be carried out in order to ensure its conformity with the requirements of the Directive which apply to it.
It must contain in particular an adequate description of: - the quality objectives and the organisational structure, responsibilities and powers of the management with regard to the quality of the transportable pressure equipment, - the examinations and tests to be carried out after manufacture, - the means of monitoring the effective operation of the quality system, - the quality records, such as inspection reports and test data, calibration data, reports concerning the qualifications or approvals of the personnel concerned. 3.3.
The manufacturer, or his authorised representative established within the Community, must inform the notified body that has approved the quality system of any intended adjustment to the quality system.
The notified body must assess the proposed changes and decide whether the amended quality system will still satisfy the requirements referred to in 3.2 or whether a reassessment is required.
Surveillance under the responsibility of the notified body 4.1.
The manufacturer must allow the notified body access for inspection purposes to the locations of manufacture, inspection, testing and storage and provide it with all necessary information, in particular: - the quality system documentation, - the technical documentation, - the quality records, such as inspection reports and test data, calibration data, reports concerning the qualifications of the personnel concerned, etc. 4.3.
The notified body must provide the manufacturer with a visit report and, if a test has taken place, with a test report. 5.
The manufacturer must, for a period of 10 years after the last of the transportable pressure equipment has been manufactured, hold at the disposal of the national authorities: - the documentation referred to in the second indent of 3.1, - the adjustments referred to in the second paragraph of 3.4, - the decisions and reports from the notified body which are referred to in the last paragraph of 3.3, in the last paragraph of 3.4, and in 4.3 and 4.4. 6.
Each notified body must communicate to the Member States the relevant information concerning the quality system approvals which it has withdrawn, and, on request, those it has issued.
Each notified body must also communicate to the other notified bodies the relevant information concerning the quality system approvals it has withdrawn or refused.
Module E1 (production quality assurance) 1.
This module describes the procedure whereby the manufacturer who satisfies the obligations of point 3 ensures and declares that the transportable pressure equipment satisfies the requirements of the Directive which apply to it.
The manufacturer, or his authorised representative established within the Community, must affix the II marking to each item of transportable pressure equipment and draw up a written declaration of conformity.
The II marking must be accompanied by the identification number of the notified body responsible for surveillance as specified in point 5. 2.
It must, as far as is relevant for such assessment, cover the design, manufacture and operation of the transportable pressure equipment and contain: - a general description of the equipment in question, - conceptual design and manufacturing drawings and diagrams of components, sub-assemblies, circuits, etc., - descriptions and explanations necessary for an understanding of the said drawings and diagrams and the operation of the equipment, - a description of the solutions adopted to meet the requirements of the Directive, - results of the design calculations made, examinations carried out, etc.; - test reports. 3.
The manufacturer must operate an approved quality system for the final transportable pressure equipment inspection and testing as specified in point 4 and be subject to surveillance as specified in point 5. 4.
Quality system 4.1.
The application must include: - all relevant information on the transportable pressure equipment concerned, - the documentation concerning the quality system. 4.2.
Under the quality system, each item of transportable pressure equipment must be examined and appropriate tests must be carried out in order to ensure its conformity with the requirements of the Directive which apply to it.
It must contain in particular an adequate description of: - the quality objectives and the organisational structure, responsibilities and powers of the management with regard to the quality of the transportable pressure equipment, - the procedures used for the joining of parts, - the examinations and tests to be carried out after manufacture, - the means of monitoring the effective operation of the quality system, - the quality records, such as inspection reports and test data, calibration data, reports concerning the qualifications or approvals of the staff concerned. 4.3.
Provision must be made for an appeals procedure. 4.4.
The notified body must assess the proposed changes and decide whether the modified quality system will still satisfy the requirements referred to in 4.2 or whether a reassessment is required.
Surveillance under the responsibility of the notified body 5.1.
The manufacturer must allow the notified body access for inspection purposes to the locations of manufacture, inspection, testing and storage and provide it with all necessary information, in particular: - the quality system documentation, - the technical documentation, - the quality records, such as inspection reports and test data, calibration data, reports concerning the qualifications of the personnel concerned, etc. 5.3.
The notified body must provide the manufacturer with a visit report and, if a test has taken place, with a test report. 6.
The manufacturer must, for a period of 10 years after the last of the transportable pressure equipment has been manufactured, hold at the disposal of the national authorities: - the documentation referred to in section 2, - the documentation referred to in the third indent of 4.1, - the adjustments referred to in the second paragraph of 4.4, - the decisions and reports from the notified body which are referred to in the last paragraph of 4.3, in the last paragraph of 4.4, and in 5.3 and 5.4. 7.
Each notified body must communicate to the Member States the relevant information concerning the quality system approvals which it has withdrawn, and, on request, those it has issued.
Each notified body must communicate to the other notified bodies the relevant information concerning the quality system approvals it has withdrawn or refused.
Module F (product verification) 1.
This module describes the procedure whereby a manufacturer, or his authorised representative established within the Community, ensures and declares that the transportable pressure equipment subject to the provisions of point 3 is in conformity with the type described: - in the EC type-examination certificate, or - in the EC design-examination certificate, and satisfies the requirements of the Directive which apply to it. 2.
The manufacturer must take all measures necessary to ensure that the manufacturing process requires the transportable pressure equipment to comply with the type described: - in the EC type-examination certificate, or - in the EC design-examination certificate, and with the requirements of the Directive which apply to it.
The manufacturer, or his authorised representative established within the Community, must affix the II marking to all transportable pressure equipment and draw up a declaration of conformity. 3.
The notified body must perform the appropriate examinations and tests in order to check the conformity of the transportable pressure equipment with the relevant requirements of the Directive by examining and testing every product in accordance with point 4.
The manufacturer, or his authorised representative established within the Community, must keep a copy of the declaration of conformity for a period of 10 years after the last of the transportable pressure equipment has been manufactured. 4.
Module G (EC unit verification) 1.
The application must contain: - the name and address of the manufacturer and the location of the transportable pressure equipment, - a written declaration to the effect that a similar application has not been lodged with another notified body, - technical documentation. 3.
The technical documentation must contain: - a general description of the equipment in question, - conceptual design and manufacturing drawings and diagrams of components, sub-assemblies, circuits, etc., - descriptions and explanations necessary for an understanding of the said drawings and diagrams and the operation of the equipment, - results of design calculations made, examinations carried out, etc., - test reports, - appropriate details relating to the approval of the manufacturing and test procedures and of the qualifications or approvals of the staff concerned. 4.
The notified body must examine the design and construction of each item of transportable pressure equipment and during manufacture perform appropriate tests to ensure its conformity with the requirements of the Directive which apply to it. 4.1.
Module H (full quality assurance) 1.
This module describes the procedure whereby the manufacturer who satisfies the obligations of point 2 ensures and declares that the transportable pressure equipment in question satisfies the requirements of the Directive which apply to it.
The manufacturer, or his authorised representative established within the Community, must affix the II marking to each item of transportable pressure equipment and draw up a written declaration of conformity.
The II marking must be accompanied by the identification number of the notified body responsible for the surveillance referred to in point 4. 2.
The manufacturer must implement an approved quality system for design, manufacture, final inspection and testing as specified in point 3 and be subject to surveillance as specified in point 4. 3.
Quality system 3.1.
The application must include: - all relevant information concerning the transportable pressure equipment in question, - the documentation concerning the quality system. 3.2.
The quality system documentation must permit a consistent interpretation of the procedural and quality measures such as programmes, plans, manuals and records.
It must contain in particular an adequate description of: - the quality objectives and the organisational structure, responsibilities and powers of the management with regard to the quality of the design and to product quality, - the technical design specifications, including standards, that will be applied, - the design control and design verification techniques, processes and systematic measures that will be used when designing the transportable pressure equipment, - the corresponding manufacturing, quality control and quality assurance techniques, processes and systematic measures that will be used, - the examinations and tests to be carried out before, during and after manufacture, and the frequency with which they will be carried out, - the quality records, such as inspection reports and test data, calibration data, reports concerning the qualifications or approvals of the personnel concerned, - the means of monitoring the achievement of the required transportable pressure equipment design and quality and the effective operation of the quality system. 3.3.
Provision must be made for an appeals procedure. 3.4.
The notified body must assess the proposed changes and decide whether the modified quality system will still satisfy the requirements referred to in 3.2 or whether a reassessment is required.
Surveillance under the responsibility of the notified body 4.1.
The manufacturer must allow the notified body access for inspection purposes to the locations of design, manufacture, inspection, testing and storage and provide it with all necessary information, in particular: - the quality system documentation, - the quality records provided for in the design part of the quality system, such as results of analyses, calculations, tests, etc., - the quality records provided for in the manufacturing part of the quality system, such as inspection reports and test data, calibration data, reports concerning the qualifications of the staff concerned, etc. 4.3.
The notified body must provide the manufacturer with a visit report and, if a test has taken place, with a test report. 5.
The manufacturer must, for a period of 10 years after the last of the transportable pressure equipment has been manufactured, keep at the disposal of the national authorities: - the documentation referred to in the second indent of the second paragraph of 3.1, - the adjustments referred to in the second paragraph of 3.4, - the decisions and reports from the notified body which are referred to in the last paragraph of 3.3, in the last paragraph of 3.4, and in 4.3 and 4.4. 6.
Each notified body must communicate to the Member States the relevant information concerning the quality system approvals which it has withdrawn, and, on request, those it has issued.
Each notified body must also communicate to the other notified bodies the relevant information concerning the quality system approvals it has withdrawn or refused.
Module H1 (full quality assurance with design examination and special surveillance of the final test) 1.
This additional approval must be given in the form of an addition to the original EC design-examination certificate; (e) each notified body must also communicate to the other notified bodies the relevant information concerning the EC design-examination certificates it has withdrawn or refused. 2.
PART II CONFORMITY REASSESSMENT PROCEDURE 1.
For receptacles manufactured in series, including their valves and other accessories used for transport, the relevant conformity reassessment operations relating to individual inspections of equipment, as indicated in points 3 and 4 above, may be carried out by an approved body provided that a notified body has previously carried out the relevant conformity reassessment operations indicated in point 3.
This module describes the procedure whereby an owner or his authorised representative established within the Community or the holder ensures that the transportable pressure equipment subject to point 3 continues to meet the requirements of this Directive. 2.
To meet the requirements referred to in point 1 the owner or his authorised representative established in the Community or the holder must take all measures necessary to ensure that the conditions of use and of maintenance ensure the continued conformity of the transportable pressure equipment to the requirements of this Directive, in particular so that: - the transportable pressure equipment is used as intended, - it is filled in appropriate filling centres, - any maintenance work or repairs are carried out, - the periodic inspections necessary are carried out.
The measures carried out must be recorded in documents and held at the disposal of the national authorities by the owner or his authorised representative established in the Community or the holder. 3.
Module 2 (periodic inspection through quality assurance) 1.
The date of periodic inspection must be accompanied by the identification number of the notified body responsible for surveillance as specified in point 4, - the procedure whereby, in the case of periodic inspection of tanks performed by the approved body in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 6(1), the approved body which satisfies the obligations of the last paragraph of point 2, certifies that the transportable pressure equipment continues to meet the requirements of this Directive.
The date of periodic inspection must be accompanied by the identification number of the approved body. 2.
The owner or his authorised representative established in the Community or the holder must take all steps necessary to ensure that the conditions of use and of maintenance are such as to enable the transportable pressure equipment to comply permanently with the requirements of this Directive and in particular that: - the transportable pressure equipment is used as intended, - it is filled in appropriate filling centres, - any maintenance work or repairs are carried out, - the periodic inspections necessary are carried out.
The owner or his authorised representative established within the Community or the holder must ensure that the qualified staff and necessary facilities within the meaning of Annex I, points 3 to 6, are available for the purpose of the periodic inspections.
The owner or his authorised representative established in the Community or the holder or the approved body must operate an approved quality system for the periodic inspection and tests of the equipment as specified in point 3, and be subject to surveillance as specified in point 4. 3.
Quality system 3.1.
The owner or his authorised representative established in the Community or the holder or the approved body must lodge an application for assessment of his quality system for the transportable pressure equipment with a notified body of his choice.
The application must include: - all relevant information on the transportable pressure equipment being submitted for periodic inspection, - the documentation regarding the quality system. 3.2.
Under the quality system, each item of transportable pressure equipment must be examined and appropriate tests must be carried out in order to ensure its conformity with the requirements set out in the Annexes to Directives 94/55/EC and 96/49/EC.
All the elements, requirements and provisions adopted by the manufacturer must be documented in a systematic and orderly manner in the form of written policies, procedures and instructions.
The notification must contain the conclusions of the examination and the reasoned assessment decision. 3.4.
The owner or his authorised representative established in the Community or the holder or the approved body must undertake to discharge the obligations arising from the quality system as approved and to ensure that it remains satisfactory and efficient.
The owner or his authorised representative established in the Community or the holder or the approved body must inform the notified body which has approved the quality system of any intended adjustment to the quality system.
The notified body must assess the proposed changes and decide whether the modified quality system will still satisfy the requirements referred to in 3.2 or whether a reassessment is required.
It must notify its decision to the owner or his authorised representative established in the Community or to the holder or the approved body.
The notification must contain the conclusions of the examination and the reasoned assessment decision. 4.
Surveillance under the responsibility of the notified body 4.1.
The purpose of surveillance is to make sure that the owner or his authorised representative established in the Community or the holder or the approved body duly fulfils the obligations arising out of the approved quality system. 4.2.
The owner or his authorised representative established in the Community or the holder or the approved body must allow the notified body access for inspection purposes to the locations of inspection, testing and storage and provide it with all necessary information, in particular: - the quality system documentation, - the technical documentation, - the quality records, such as inspection reports and test data, reports concerning the qualifications of the personnel concerned, etc. 4.3.
The notified body must carry out periodic audits to make sure that the owner or his authorised representative established in the Community or the holder or the approved body maintains and applies the quality system and provide the owner or his authorised representative established in the Community or the holder or the approved body with an audit report. 4.4.
The owner or his authorised representative established in the Community or the holder or the approved body must, for a period of 10 years from the date of the last periodic inspection of the transportable pressure equipment, hold at the disposal of the national authorities: - the documentation referred to in the second indent of the second paragraph of 3.1, - the adjustments referred to in the second paragraph of 3.4, - the decisions and reports from the notified body which are referred to in the last paragraph of 3.3, in the last paragraph of 3.4 and in 4.3 and 4.4.
The various components of the mark must have substantially the same vertical dimensions, which may not be less than 5 mm.
