Article 2 The standard document must be completed in accordance with the notes contained in its different sections.
The standard document shall be printed in black ink on white paper, weighing at least 40 grams per square metre, and its strength should be such that in normal use it does not easily tear or crease. 2.
Article 4 Member States shall take the measures necessary to comply with this Decision not later than 1 January 1994.
Article 5 This Decision is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 1 October 1993.
For the Commission Yannis PALEOKRASSAS Member of the Commission (1) OJ No L 35, 12. 2. 1992, p. 24.
ANNEX STANDARD DOCUMENT FOR THE SUPERVISION AND CONTROL OF SHIPMENTS OF RADIOACTIVE WASTE (DIRECTIVE 92/3/EURATOM) SECTION 1 Registration No: (to be completed by the authorities responsible for issuing the shipment authorization) STANDARD DOCUMENT FOR MONITORING RADIOACTIVE WASTE SHIPMENTS (DIRECTIVE 92/3/EURATOM) APPLICATION FOR SHIPMENT AUTHORIZATION NOTE The applicant must complete boxes 1 to 16 and must then send the entire standard document (sections 1 to 5) to the competent authorities of his country, who are responsible for issuing the authorization for the radioactive waste shipment.
Inflammable solids 4.2.
Substances which, on contact with water, give off inflammable gases Category 5 5.1.
Oxidizing substances 5.2.
Organic peroxides Category 6 6.1.
Toxic substances 6.2.
SECTION 2 Registration No: (to be completed by the authorities responsible for issuing the shipment authorization) STANDARD DOCUMENT FOR MONITORING RADIOACTIVE WASTE SHIPMENTS (DIRECTIVE 92/3/EURATOM) APPROVAL BY THE COMPETENT AUTHORITIES CONSULTED NOTE 1.
The competent authorities responsible for issuing the authorization for the radioactive waste shipment should complete boxes 17 and 18 immediately on receipt of the application and enter the registration number at the top of each section of the standard document.
The competent authority consulted should make any necessary additional entries in box 19 and should give the application due consideration.
Within two months from the date of receipt it should complete box 20 and return the original copy of section 2 to the competent authority responsible for issuing the authorization.
send it to the applicant together with the other sections necessary for the procedure (that is, sections 1, 3, 4 and 5); 3.
SECTION 4 Registration No: (to be completed by the authorities responsible for issuing the shipment authorization) STANDARD DOCUMENT FOR MONITORING RADIOACTIVE WASTE SHIPMENTS (DIRECTIVE 92/3/EURATOM) LIST OF PACKAGES NOTE This list must be completed by the holder of the radioactive waste before each shipment (even if the authorization relates to several shipments).
Like sections 1 and 3 of the standard document, it accompanies the waste while it is being shipped.
Shipment of type A or B Within 15 days of receiving the waste, the consignee must complete boxes 32, 33 and 35, and submit sections 4 and 5 to the competent authorities of the Member State of destination.
The competent authorities of the Member State of destination then forward copies of sections 4 and 5 to the other competent authorities consulted (and, where appropriate, the original of these two sections to the competent authorities which issued the authorization).
Within 15 days after receipt of the waste, the applicant must forward section 4, section 5 (if the consignee did not use section 5, the applicant must complete it with the exception of box 34) and, where applicable, the consignee's declaration, to the competent authorities which issued the authorization.
Shipment of type A or B The consignee completes boxes 32, 33 and 35 of section 5 after each shipment (having made several copies of a blank section 5 for this purpose) and submits this section direct to the competent authorities which issued the authorization.
He attaches the section 4 relating to the same shipment.
Section 5 page 2 2.
The applicant must complete box 36 of section 5 and forward sections 4 and 5 to the authorities which issued the authorization. 3.
Shipments of all types When all the shipments covered by an authorization have been carried out, the final acknowledgement of receipt is completed and submitted as if the authorization were valid for a single shipment only (see above) except that: - it is stated in box 33 of section 5 that the shipment in question is the last shipment covered by the authorization; - any declaration made by a consignee located outside the European Communities must state that all the waste covered by the shipping authorization has indeed arrived; - to provide an overview, the sections 4 for each of the shipments covered by the authorization must be attached to the final acknowledgement of receipt.
Stamp (Signature of the consignee) Section 5 page 4 36 For shipments of type C or D only: Forwarding by the applicant of the acknowledgement of receipt and, where appropriate, the consignee's declaration (see note below) to the authority which issued the authorization: Date of forwarding of the acknowledgement of receipt (together with section 4): Frontier post of exit from the Community: Country: Post: Stamp (Signature of the applicant) NB: 1.
A consignee located outside the European Communities may acknowledge receipt of the waste by means of a declaration or certificate providing at least the information contained in boxes 32 to 35. 2.
The originals of sections 4 and 5 must be sent finally to the competent authority which issued the authorization. 4.
