Article 3 Manner of operation of the network The European Judicial Network shall operate in particular in the following three ways: (a) it shall facilitate the establishment of appropriate contacts between the contact points in the various Member States in order to carry out the functions laid down in Article 4; (b) it shall organise periodic meetings of the Member States' representatives in accordance with the procedures laid down in Articles 5, 6 and 7; (c) it shall constantly provide a certain amount of up-to-date background information, notably by means of an appropriate telecommunications network, under the procedures laid down in Articles 8, 9 and 10.
TITLE II CONTACTS WITHIN THE NETWORK Article 4 Functions of contact points 1.
TITLE III PERIODIC MEETINGS OF THE EUROPEAN JUDICIAL NETWORK Article 5 Purpose of the periodic meetings 1.
Article 6 Frequency of meetings 1.
Article 7 Venue of meetings 1.
Article 9 Updating of information 1.
TITLE V TELECOMMUNICATIONS NETWORK Article 10 Report concerning a telecommunications system 1.
TITLE VI FINAL PROVISIONS Article 11 Territorial application As regards the United Kingdom, the provisions of this Joint Action shall apply to the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the Channel Islands and the Isle of Man.
Article 12 Assessment of the operation of the European Judicial Network The Council shall carry out an initial assessment of the operation of the European Judicial Network at the close of the start-up phase, which shall end one year after the entry into force of this Joint Action.
Article 13 Entry into force This Joint Action shall enter into force one month after the date of its publication in the Official Journal.
Article 14 Publication The Joint Action shall be published in the Official Journal.
Done at Luxembourg, 29 June 1998.
COOK (1) OJ L 105, 27. 4. 1996, p. 1.
ANNEX COUNCIL DECLARATION The Council declares that Article 11 of the Joint Action on the creation of a European Judicial Network is without prejudice to the territorial application of other instruments.
