It is therefore necessary to lay down in Commission Regulation (EC) No 2771/1999(2) detailed rules with regard to an intervention system for the buying-in of butter at fixed prices. (2) Moreover, in accordance with Article 6(1) of Regulation (EC) No 1255/1999, the Commission may decide to suspend intervention buying-in once certain quantities offered for intervention have been reached.
Once the Commission has observed, in accordance with Article 8(4), that the market price in one or more Member States is lower than 92 % of the intervention price, for two weeks in succession, it shall commence buying in butter offered for intervention in the Member State(s) concerned in the period from 1 March to 31 August, at 90 % of the intervention price, in accordance with the first subparagraph of Article 6(1) of Regulation (EC) No 1255/1999. 2.
Offers shall be valid only if: (a) they relate to a quantity of butter meeting the requirements of Article 4(4); (b) they are accompanied by a written undertaking by the seller to comply with Articles 4(3) and 14(2); (c) proof is furnished that the seller has lodged a security of EUR 5 per 100 kg in the Member State in which the offer was submitted no later than the day on which the offer is received. 4.
Article 11 Maintenance of the offer and delivery of the butter to the depot designated by the intervention agency within the time limit laid down in Article 12(2) shall constitute primary requirements within the meaning of Article 20 of Commission Regulation (EEC) No 2220/85(3).
Any costs incurred in unloading the butter at the loading bay of the cold store shall be borne by the seller. 3.
The security referred to in Article 10(3)(c) shall be released as soon as the seller has delivered all the quantity indicated on the delivery order within the time limit laid down therein.
Where the Commission decides to commence buying-in butter through an open standing invitation to tender pursuant to the second subparagraph of Article 6(1) of Regulation (EC) No 1255/1999 and in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 42(2) thereof, Articles 3, 4, 5, 6, 12, 13 and 14 of this Regulation shall apply unless otherwise provided in this Section. 2.
If Tuesday is a public holiday, the closing date shall be the last preceding working day at noon (Brussels time).
Tenders shall contain: (a) the name and address of the tenderer; (b) the quantity offered; (c) the proposed price per 100 kilograms of butter, exclusive of national taxes and charges, delivered to the loading bay of the cold store, expressed in euro to no more than two decimal places; (d) the place where the butter is held. 3.
Tenders shall be valid only if: (a) they relate to a quantity of butter meeting the requirements of Article 4(4); (b) they are accompanied by the written undertaking by the tenderer to comply with Articles 4(3) and 14(2); (c) proof is furnished that the tenderer has lodged a security of EUR 5 per 100 kg for the invitation to tender concerned, in the Member State in which the tender was submitted, before the closing date for submission of tenders. 4.
Article 17a Maintenance of the tender after the closing date for submission of tenders, and delivery of the butter to the depot designated by the intervention agency within the time limit laid down in Article 17d(3), shall constitute primary requirements within the meaning of Article 20 of Regulation (EEC) No 2220/85.
The Member States shall inform the Commission of the quantities and prices offered by tenderers, no later than 9 a.m. (Brussels time) on the day following the closing date referred to in Article 16(3). 2.
In the light of the tenders received for each invitation to tender, the Commission shall fix a maximum buying-in price, by reference to the intervention prices applicable, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 42(2) of Regulation (EC) No 1255/1999. 3.
Within 21 days of the closing date for submission of tenders, the successful tenderer shall deliver the butter to the loading bay of the cold store.
Any costs incurred in unloading the butter at the loading bay of the cold store shall be borne by the successful tenderer. 4.
The security provided for in Article 17(3)(c) shall be released as soon as the successful tenderer has delivered all the quantity indicated on the delivery order within the time limit laid down therein.
Except in cases of force majeure, where the successful tenderer fails to deliver the butter within the time limit laid down in the delivery order, the security provided for in Article 17(3)(c) shall be forfeit in proportion to the quantities not delivered, and buying-in shall be cancelled in respect of the quantities not yet delivered. 6.
Intervention agencies shall make the necessary arrangements to enable interested parties: (a) to examine samples of the butter put up for sale at their own expense before submitting a tender; (b) to verify the results of the analyses referred to in Article 8 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 213/2001(5).
Offers shall contain: (a) the name and address of the tenderer; (b) the quantity desired; (c) the price in euro tendered per 100 kilograms, not including national taxes and charges, delivered to the loading-bay of the cold store; (d) if appropriate, the cold store where the butter is held and, if desired, a substitute cold store; (e) if appropriate, an indication of the kind of butter referred to in Article 4(6)(e) for which the offer is being submitted. 3.
The intervention agency shall make the award in accordance with paragraphs 2 to 5. 2.
Once the amount referred to in Article 24e(2) has been paid the intervention agency shall issue a removal order indicating: (a) the quantity in respect of which the corresponding amount has been paid; (b) the cold store in which the butter is in store; (c) the final date for removal of the butter. 2.
Successful tenderers shall remove the butter awarded to them within 30 days of the closing date for the submission of tenders.
However, where the quantity remaining in a cold store is less than five tonnes, that smaller quantity may be delivered.
Except in cases of force majeure, if the butter has not been removed within the period laid down in the first subparagraph, the cost of storing shall be borne by the successful tenderer from the day following that on which the period expired.
The security lodged in accordance with Article 23(3)(b) shall be released immediately in respect of quantities removed within the period provided for in the first subparagraph of paragraph 2 of this Article.
Done at Brussels, 23 February 2004.
