Whereas pressure vessels placed on the market might in certain cases represent a safety hazard although satisfying the requirements of the relevant separate Directive ; whereas provision should therefore be made for a procedure to reduce this hazard, HAS ADOPTED THIS DIRECTIVE: CHAPTER I Definitions and basic principles Article 1 1.
They may lay down: - any conditions or time limits to which EEC pattern approval may be subject and any marks to be affixed to pressure vessels in such cases, - the identification markings for each pressure vessel, - the conditions which different models of an approved vessel must satisfy in order to receive the same pattern approval. 2.
Article 3 No Member State may, on grounds relating to the construction or inspection of a vessel within the meaning of this Directive and the separate Directive relating to it, refuse, prohibit or restrict the marketing and placing into service of an EEC-type pressure vessel which complies with the requirements of this Directive and the separate Directive relating to it.
Article 4 Member States shall attach the same value to EEC pattern approval and EEC verification as to any equivalent national procedures.
Article 5 The tasks of the administration issuing the EEC pattern approval certificate and of the inspection body carrying out the verification of the vessel shall be confined to examinations carried out in accordance with the requirements of the relevant separate Directives, and to the operations assigned to them by this Directive.
CHAPTER II EEC pattern approval Article 6 1.
Member States shall grant, refuse or withdraw EEC pattern approval in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter and sections 1, 2 and 4 of Annex I.
If the results of the examination provided for in section 2 of Annex I are satisfactory, the Member State which carried out the examination shall make out an EEC pattern approval certificate which shall be forwarded to the applicant concerned.
The requirements relating to the certificate and approval mark are set out in sections 3 and 5 of Annex I.
Article 8 Where EEC pattern approval is not required for a category of pressure vessels which satisfies the requirements of a separate Directive, but an application has been made for EEC verification, the manufacturer shall, on his own responsibility, before verification takes place, affix to pressure vessels in this category the special mark described in 3.2 of Annex I.
Furthermore, if the said Member State is informed by another Member State of the existence of one of the cases referred to in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, it shall, after consulting that State, act in accordance with the provisions of those paragraphs. 5.
CHAPTER III EEC verification Article 10 EEC verification shall serve to establish whether a pressure vessel conforms with the requirements of the separate Directive relating to it ; it shall be attested by the EEC verification mark.
Article 12 Annex III specifies the minimum criteria which the Member States must observe when appointing the inspection bodies pursuant to Article 13, without prejudice to their competence, to take such measures and lay down such conditions as they consider necessary at national level to ensure that the inspection bodies appointed operate in an efficient, coordinated and irreproachable fashion.
After carrying out EEC verification of a pressure vessel under the conditions laid down in Article 11 and in the manner provided for in Annex II, the inspection body shall affix the EEC partial or final verification marks to the vessel in accordance with the arrangements laid down in section 3 of that Annex. 2.
CHAPTER IV Provisions common to EEC pattern approval and EEC verification Article 16 1.
CHAPTER V Derogating clause Article 17 1.
CHAPTER VI Adaptation of the Directives to technical progress Article 18 The amendments necessary to keep: - Annexes I and II to this Directive, and - those provisions of the separate Directives which are specifically indicated in each of them, in line with technical progress shall be made in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 20.
CHAPTER VII Safeguard clause Article 21 1.
CHAPTER VIII Special provisions Article 22 1.
In this case, the following rules shall apply: (a) the competent administrative authorities of the Member State of destination shall regard pressure vessels which have been inspected and tested by an inspection body chosen in accordance with the procedure laid down in Annex IV as conforming to their national laws, administrative provisions and regulations relating to design; (b) these tests and inspections must be carried out in accordance with the procedure described in Annex IV and using the methods in force in the Member State of destination or recognized as being equivalent by its administrative authorities.
The tests and inspections referred to above shall be all those which it is possible to carry out in the place where the vessels are manufactured. 3.
CHAPTER IX Final provisions Article 23 Any decision by a Member State or an inspection body pursuant to this Directive and the separate Directives to refuse EEC pattern approval or to refuse to affix the EEC verification mark, to withdraw approval, or to prohibit the sale or use of EEC-type pressure vessels, shall state the exact grounds on which it is based.
Article 25 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 27 July 1976.
For the Council The President M.
van der STOEL ANNEX I (1) EEC PATTERN APPROVAL 1.
APPLICATION FOR EEC PATTERN APPROVAL 1.1.
The application shall be accompanied by two copies of the documents required and in particular: 1.3.1.
EXAMINATION FOR EEC PATTERN APPROVAL 2.1.
An example of this mark is shown in 5.1. 3.2. %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%T0009643%quot%%gt% 3.3.
The mark mentioned in Article 15 (a) is the same as the EEC approval mark surrounded by a hexagon.
PUBLICATION OF EEC PATTERN APPROVAL 4.1.
MARKS RELATING TO EEC PATTERN APPROVAL %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%T0009538%quot%%gt% %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%T0009539%quot%%gt% ANNEX II (1) EEC VERIFICATION 1.
Subject to the requirements of the separate Directives the verification shall entail: - examination of the characteristics of the materials, - checking of the design calculations, method of manufacture, workmanship and materials used, - an internal examination consisting of a check on the internal parts and the welding, - a pressure test, - inspection of any safety devices and measuring equipment fitted, - an external examination of the various parts of the vessel, - a performance test where this is prescribed in the separate Directives. 3.
EEC VERIFICATION MARKS 3.1.
Description of EEC verification marks 3.1.1.
The EEC final verification mark shall be composed of two stamps: 3.1.1.1.1.
The first consisting of a letter %quot%e%quot% containing: - in the upper half, the capital letter(s) identifying the State in which the verification is carried out (B for Belgium, D for the Federal Republic of Germany, DK for Denmark, F for France, I for Italy, IRL for Ireland, L for Luxembourg, NL for the Netherlands and UK for the United Kingdom) together, where necessary, with one or two numbers identifying a territorial subdivision, - in the lower half, the mark of the inspection body affixed by the verifying agent, together with the mark of the verifying agent if appropriate; 3.1.1.1.2.
The EEC partial verification mark shall consist solely of the first stamp (1). 3.2.
An example of the stamps described in 3.1.1.1.1 and 3.1.1.1.2 is illustrated in figures 1 and 2 below.
The separate Directives may specify the placing and dimensions of the EEC verification marks.
Unless otherwise indicated in the separate Directives, the letters and numbers of each mark must be at least 5 mm high. 3.2.2.
Affixing the marks 3.3.1.
The EEC final verification mark shall be affixed in the required position on the vessel when the latter has been finally verified and is recognized as conforming to EEC requirements. 3.3.2.
The documents shall be forwarded in quadruplicate in the language or languages of the recipient country or in another language acceptable to that country. 2. 2.1.
If it is apparent from a substantive examination of the file that the vessel, or the vessels of a single type have been produced or are intended to be produced in accordance with the relevant documents, and satisfy the statutory requirements for pressure vessels in the recipient country or may be accepted if a derogation from these requirements is granted, the recipient administration shall notify the applicant accordingly within the period laid down in 2.2.1.
If the vessel, or the vessels of a single type, covered by the application are not subject to regulations in the recipient country, the recipient administration may require that the regulations governing pressure vessels in the country of origin are complied with. 2.3.2.
The criteria used by the recipient administration for granting or refusing the derogations referred to in 2.3.1 and 2.3.2 shall be the same as those currently applied for manufacturers established in the recipient country. 2.4.
The inspection body chosen in accordance with section 1 shall carry out the operations required of it by the recipient administration. 4.
