Article 3 Requirements for the national programmes The national programmes set up by the Member States taking into account the Community programmes set out in the Annex shall comprise in particular: (a) the links with the Community programmes, specifying the planned actions by section and by reference to the programme; (b) the elements of analytical accounts distributed by section and by programme as well as by geographical area as set out in Appendix I, level 2; (c) in the event of sampling, a detailed description on the strategies followed and the statistical estimates used making it possible to appreciate the levels of precision and relationship between the cost and precision; (d) the elements making it possible to demonstrate cooperation and task-sharing between Member States.
The programmes shall provide for estimates of levels of precision referred to in point (c) by 31 May 2003 at the latest.
Article 4 Submission of the national programmes Each Member State shall submit to the Commission, by 31 May of each year at the latest, by electronic means, its national programme referred to in Article 6 of Regulation (EC) No 1543/2000.
Article 5 Transmission of data to international organisations 1.
Member States shall inform the Commission of the transmission of the information referred to in paragraph 1 and provide the Commission with a computerised copy upon request.
Article 6 Coordination between Commision and Member States 1.
Member States shall submit, by 31 May 2003 at the latest and by the 31 May following each year of application of the programme thereafter, a technical report of activity detailing the state of completion of the aims set at the time of the drawing-up of the minimum programme and of the extended programme. 3.
Each Member State shall communicate by 31 May 2001 at the latest the particulars of its national correspondent to the Commission and to the other Member States. 5.
Article 7 Non-compliance with Community programmes If the Commission considers that the obligations set out in the modules of the Community programmes are not respected by a Member State and that the Member State concerned received Community financial assistance for these modules, it shall inform the Member State concerned which shall carry out an administrative enquiry.
Article 8 Technical modifications and exemptions 1.
Each Member State shall ensure that the aggregated data pertaining to the Community programmes are incorporated into computerised databases accessible by electronic means to the Commission and the national correspondents according to Articles 10 and 11. 4.
Article 10 Access to data by the Commission 1.
Article 11 Access to data by Member States 1.
Article 12 Confidentiality The members of the STECF and participants of meetings that it organises are not permitted to make a copy of part or all of the data for use outside of the meeting.
Article 13 Entry into force This Regulation shall enter into force on the seventh day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Done at Brussels, 25 July 2001.
For the Commission Franz Fischler Member of the Commission (1) OJ L 176, 15.7.2000, p. 1. (2) OJ L 341, 31.12.1993, p. 93. (3) OJ L 266, 1.10.1998, p. 27.
ANNEX CHAPTER I CONTENTS AND METHODOLOGY A.
CHAPTER II MODULE OF EVALUATION OF INPUTS: FISHING CAPACITIES AND FISHING EFFORT C.
Collection of data concerning fishing capacities 1.
For the other types of data mentioned in point (1)(a), sampling programmes can be drawn up to allow estimates attaining level 3 precision as defined in section B. 2.
Each operation will correspond to a contribution to the thus defined fishing effort by following the rules defined in Appendix IX.
CHAPTER III MODULE OF EVALUATION OF THE CATCHES AND LANDINGS E.
The conclusions of these studies must be forwarded to the Commission by 31 October 2003 at the latest, - catches from recreational and game fisheries mentioned in Appendix XI must be subject to pilot surveys.
Complementary geographical stratification, according to depth or another criterion, can be made, in as far as this stratification is consistent with section D, point (2)(b)(ii), third indent, and that the corresponding national programme justifies its usefulness, - data concerning the stocks mentioned in Appendix XIII can be collected on a quarterly basis, by separating the catches according to the types of techniques defined in Appendix III, and by the geographical level 3 areas according to Appendix I.
For stocks mentioned in Appendix VII, data can be further separated according to the ranges of depth defined in that Appendix, - catch data can be collected by segment as defined in Appendix IV or Appendix X, - discards data can be collected under the extended programme: - on a quarterly basis, by type of technique according to Appendix III and according to the geographical level 3 of Appendix I, for the stocks where Appendix XII mentions an annual evaluation of discards within the minimum programme, - on an annual basis, with possible separation of the types of fishing technique according to Appendix III, without geographical disaggregation, for the stocks where Appendix XII does not require an annual estimate of discards within the minimum programme, - on an annual basis, with no other disaggregation for the stocks mentioned in Appendix XIII.
Each Member State will forward the corresponding conclusions to the Commission by 31 December 2002 at the latest.
If appropriate, the national programme may be adjusted adjusted until 31 January of every year to take into account the exchange of quotas between Member States; (2) for stocks for which TACs and quotas have not been defined and outside the Mediterranean area, the same rules apply on the basis of the average landings of the previous three years and with reference to the total Community landings from a stock; (3) for the stocks in the Mediterranean area, the landings by weight of a Mediterranean Member State for a species corresponding to less than 5 % of the total national landings from the Mediterranean area, or to less than 200 tonnes, except for bluefin tuna; (4) Whenever possible, age-reading should be performed on commercial catches.
These surveys must make it possible to establish the levels of precision required for the future.
The conclusions of these surveys must be forwarded to the Commission by 31 October 2003 at the latest. 2.
Extended programme: complementary parameters: - all the sampling programmes for the estimation of the composition by age or length of the landings and specified Appendix XV, - the sampling programmes for the estimation of the annual composition in lengths of landings for the stocks specified in Appendix XIII, - the sampling programme for the estimation of the annual composition in lengths of the discards for stocks specified in Appendix XII and Appendix XV.
The validity of existing data used for biological parameters estimation must be checked every three to six years as defined in Appendix XVI.
If appropriate, the national programme can be adjusted until 1 February of every year to take into account the exchange of quotas between Member States. (2) For stocks for which TACs and quotas have not been defined, the same rules apply on the basis of the average landings of the previous three years and with reference to the total Community landings.
CHAPTER IV MODULE OF EVALUATION OF THE ECONOMIC SITUATION OF THE SECTOR J.
At the minimum programme level, data must be gathered in the following way. (a) Parameters: - data must be collected to cover all the parameters mentioned in Appendix XVII according to the segmentation set out in Appendix III, - investment must be measured in order to estimate the overall value of assets, including the capital value of the leased equipment.
The conclusions of these surveys must be forwarded to the Commission by 31 October 2003 at the latest. 2.
Engine power %amp%gt;= 221 kW for vessels operating in North Sea (i) mesh size: 80 - 109 mm, %amp%gt;= 110 mm 3.
Beam trawlers operating outside the North Sea (i) mesh size: %amp%lt; 32 mm, 80 - 109 mm, %amp%gt;= 110 mm (b) Demersal trawl and demersal seine 1.
Bottom trawl (i) single trawl, paired trawl, twin trawl, other multirig trawl, four-panels trawl, high-opening trawl (ii) mesh size: %amp%lt; 32 mm, 32 - 54 mm, 55 - 69 mm, 70 - 79 mm, 80 - 109 mm, %amp%gt;= 110 mm (iii) (i) and (ii) may be combined 2.
Danish seiners (i) mesh size: %amp%lt; 32 mm, 32 - 54 mm, 55 - 69 mm, 70 - 79 mm, 80 - 109 mm, %amp%gt;= 110 mm 3.
Scottish seiners (i) mesh size: %amp%lt; 32 mm, 32 - 54 mm, 55 - 69 mm, 70 - 79 mm, 80 - 109 mm, %amp%gt;= 110 mm (c) Pelagic trawl and seiners 1.
Pelagic trawl (i) single trawler, paired trawlers (ii) mesh size: trawl: %amp%lt; 32 mm, 32 - 54 mm, 55 - 69 mm, 70 - 79 mm, 80 - 109 mm, %amp%gt;= 110 mm (Atlantic and North Sea); %amp%lt; 32 mm, 32 - 90 mm, 91 - 105 mm, 106 - 119 mm, %amp%gt;= 120 mm (Baltic Sea); 14 - 49 mm, 50 - 99 mm, 100 - 119 mm, %amp%gt;= 120 mm (Mediterranean) 2.
Fixed nets (i) trammel nets (ii) entangling nets (iii) gill nets (iv) subdivision by mesh size, also permitted: 10 - 99 mm, 100 - 119 mm, %amp%gt;= 120 mm (Atlantic and North Sea); %amp%lt; 105 mm, 105 - 119 mm, %amp%gt;= 120 mm (Baltic Sea) 2.
However, this number can be reduced if Member States establish that such a reduction will not affect the quality of the age composition estimate. %gt%TABLE%gt% Appendix XVI (section I) Other biological samplings Y = yearly; T = every three years; S = every six years %gt%TABLE%gt% Appendix XVII (section J) Economic information per fleet segment as defined in Appendix III (MP) %gt%TABLE%gt% Appendix XVIII (section J) Data needs for basic economic evaluation per fleet segment (EP) %gt%TABLE%gt% Appendix XIX (Section K) Economic information per primary and secondary industry (sectors) (MP) %gt%TABLE%gt%
