Article 2 Institutions subject to reserve requirements 1.
The following categories of institutions shall be subject to reserve requirements: (a) credit institutions as defined in the first indent of Article 1 of Council Directive 77/780/EEC (4), other than participating NCBs; (b) branches of credit institutions as defined in the first indent of Article 1 of Council Directive 77/780/EEC, other than participating NCBs; these include branches of credit institutions which have neither their registered nor their head office in a participating Member State.
The ECB will publish a list of institutions subject to reserve requirements.
Article 3 Reserve base 1.
Article 4 Reserve ratios 1.
A reserve ratio of 0 % shall apply to the following liability categories (as defined within the reporting framework for the money and banking statistics of the ECB, which is laid down in Regulation (EC) No 2819/98 (a) deposits with agreed maturity over two years; (b) deposits redeemable at notice over two years; (c) repos; (d) debt securities issued with an agreed maturity over two years. 2.
A reserve ratio of 2,0 % shall apply to all other liabilities included in the reserve base.
Article 5 Calculation of reserve requirements 1.
The amount of minimum reserves to be held by each institution in respect of a particular maintenance period shall be calculated by applying the reserve ratios to each relevant item of the reserve base for that period, as defined in Article 4. 2.
Article 6 Reserve holdings 1.
Article 8 Remuneration 1.
Holdings of required reserves are remunerated at the average, taken over the maintenance period, of the ESCB's rate (weighted according to the number of calendar days) for the main refinancing operations according to the following formula: Rt = %gt%NUM%gt%Ht 7 nt 7 Ă&#x201C;i = ln %gt%NUM%gt%MRi %gt%DEN%gt%nt 7 100 %gt%DEN%gt%360 Where: Rt = remuneration to be paid on holdings of required reserves for the maintenance period t Ht = holdings of required reserves for the maintenance period t nt = number of calendar days in the maintenance period t i = ith calendar day of the maintenance period t MRi = marginal interest rate for the most recent main refinancing operations spanning calendar day i. 2.
Article 9 Responsibility for verification The right to verify the accuracy and quality of the information which institutions provide to demonstrate compliance with the reserve requirement as specified in Article 6 of Regulation (EC) No 2531/98 concerning the application of minimum reserves shall be exercised by the participating NCBs without prejudice to the right of the ECB to exercise this right itself.
Article 10 Indirect holding of minimum reserves through an intermediary 1.
Upon fulfilment of the above conditions the participating NCB referred to above may grant permission for the period of time for which the aforementioned agreement between the parties is operative, subject to the provisions of paragraph 4 of this Article.
The ECB or the relevant participating NCB may, at any time, withdraw permission to hold minimum reserves indirectly if an institution which holds its reserves indirectly through an intermediary, or the intermediary itself, fails to comply with its obligations under the ESCB minimum reserve system, if the conditions for the holding of reserves indirectly specified in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article are no longer fulfilled or for prudential reasons related to the intermediary.
Subject to the requirements of paragraph 5 of this Article, any withdrawal for other reasons shall take effect at the end of the current maintenance period.
Article 11 Reserve holding on a consolidated basis Institutions allowed to report statistical data as a group on a consolidated basis (as defined within the reporting framework for the money and banking statistics of the ECB, which is laid down in Regulation (EC) No 2819/98) must, subject to the provisions contained in Article 10, hold minimum reserves through one of the institutions in the group which is acting as intermediary exclusively for these institutions.
The institution acting as the intermediary for the group may apply to the ECB for exemption from the provisions in paragraph 6 of Article 10.
If its application is accepted by the ECB, only the group as a whole shall be entitled to receive the allowance referred to in paragraph 2 of Article 5.
Article 12 NCB business days If one or more branches of a participating NCB are closed on an NCB business day owing to local or regional bank holidays, the relevant participating NCB shall inform the institutions in advance of the arrangements to be made for transactions involving those branches.
Article 13 Transitional provisions 1.
The first maintenance period shall start on l January 1999 and end on 23 February 1999. 2.
The reserve base of an institution for the first maintenance period shall be defined in relation to elements of its balance sheet as of 1 January 1999, as reported to the participating NCBs within the reporting framework for the money and banking statistics of the ECB, which is laid down in Regulation (EC) No 2819/98.
Article 14 Amendments to this Regulation Any amendments to this Regulation shall become effective only with regard to a full maintenance period and shall be announced prior to this period.
Article 15 Final provision This Regulation shall enter into force on 1 January 1999.
DUISENBERG (1) OJ L 318, 27. 11. 1998, p. 1. (2) OJ L 318, 27. 11. 1998, p. 4. (3) OJ L 318, 27. 11. 1998, p. 8. (4) OJ L 322, 17. 12. 1977, p. 30. (5) See page 7 of this Official Journal.
