Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament (2), (2) OJ No C 239, 9.10.1978, p.17.
Having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee (3), (3) OJ No C 59, 8.03.1978, p.31.
A commercial agent shall be understood within the meaning of this Directive as not including in particular: - a person who, in his capacity as an officer, is empowered to enter into commitments binding on a company or association, - a parter who is lawfully authorized to enter into commitments binding on his partners, - a receiver, a receiver and manager, a liquidator or a trustee in bankruptcy.
This Directive shall not apply to: - commercial agents whose activities are unpaid, - commercial agents when they operate on commodity exchanges or in the commodity market, or - the body known is the Crown Agents for Overseas Governments and Administrations, as set up under the Crown Agents Act 1979 in the United Kingdom, or its subsidiaries. 2.
CHAPTER II Rights and obligations Article 3 1.
Article 5 The parties may not derogate from the provisions of Articles 3 and 4.
CHAPTER III Remuneration Article 6 1.
Articles 7 to 12 shall not apply if the commercial agent is not remunerated wholly or in part by commission.
Article 8 A commercial agent shall be entitled to commission on commercial transactions concluded after the agency contract has terminated: (a) if the transaction is mainly attributable to the commercial agent's efforts during the period covered by the agency contract and if the transaction was entered into within a reasonable period after that contract terminated; or (b) if, in accordance with the conditions mentioned in Article 7, the order of the third party reached the principal or the commercial agent before the agency contract terminated.
Article 9 A commercial agent shall not be entitled to the commission referred to in Article 7, if that commission is payable, pursuant to Article 8, to the previous commercial agent, unless it is equitable because of the circumstances for the commission to be shared between the commercial agents.
Agreements to derogate from paragraphs 2 and 3 to the detriment of the commercial agent shall not be permitted.
Agreements to derogate from paragraph 1 to the detriment of the commercial agent shall not be permitted.
Agreements to derogate from paragraphs 1 and 2 to the detriment of the commercial agent shall not be permitted. 4.
This Directive shall not conflict with the internal provisions of Member States which recognize the right of a commercial agent to inspect a principal's books.
CHAPTER IV Conclusion and termination of the agency contract Article 13 1.
Article 14 An agency contract for a fixed period which continues to be performed by both parties after that period has expired shall be deemed to be converted into an agency contract for an indefinite period.
If the parties agree on longer periods than those laid down in paragraphs 2 and 3, the period of notice to be observed by the principal must not be shorter than that to be observed by the commercial agent. 5.
Article 16 Nothing in this Directive shall affect the application of the law of the Member States where the latter provides for the immediate termination of the agency contract: (a) because of the failure of one party to carry out all or part of his obligations; (b) where exceptional circumstances arise.
The commercial agent shall be entitled to compensation for the damage he suffers as a result of the termination of his relations with the principal.
Article 19 The parties may not derogate from Articles 17 and 18 to the detriment of the commercial agent before the agency contract expires.
CHAPTER V General and final provisions Article 21 Nothing in this Directive shall require a Member State to provide for the disclosure of information where such disclosure would be contrary to public policy.
Member States shall bring into force the provisions necessary to comply with this Directive before 1 January 1990.
However, with regard to Ireland and the United Kingdom, 1 January 1990 referred to in paragraph 1 shall be replaced by 1 January 1994.
Article 23 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done et Brussels, 18 December 1986.
