Article 2 Annex III to Directive 91/414/EEC shall be amended as set out in Annex II to this Directive.
Article 4 This Directive shall enter into force on the 20th day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Article 5 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 16 May 2001.
For the Commission David Byrne Member of the Commission (1) OJ L 230, 19.8.1991, p. 1. (2) OJ L 113, 24.4.2001, p. 5. (3) Scientific Committee on Plants SCP/MICR/006 final.
ANNEX I Annex II to Directive 91/414/EEC is amended as follows: (1) The following point 2.4 is added to the introduction : %quot%2.4.
By way of derogation from point 2.1, for active substances consisting of micro-organisms or viruses, tests and analyses done to obtain data on the properties and/or safety with respect to other aspects than human health, may have been conducted by official or officially recognised testing facilities or organisations which satisfy at least the requirements under points 2.2 and 2.3 of the introduction of Annex III.%quot% (2) Part B is replaced by the following: %quot%PART B Introduction (i) Active substances are defined in Article 2(4) and include chemical substances and micro-organisms including viruses.
Where, in addition, the applicant has an office, agent or representative in the Member State to which the application for inclusion in Annex I is submitted, and if different, in the rapporteur Member State appointed by the Commission, the name and address of the local office, agent or representative must be provided, as must the name, position, telephone and fax number of the appropriate person to contact. 1.2.
It must be indicated whether the micro-organism: - is indigenous or non-indigenous at the species level to the intended area of application, - is a wild type, - is a spontaneous or induced mutant, - has been modified, using techniques described in Annex IA, Part 2, and Annex IB to Directive 90/220/EEC.
The information on identity of chemical substances such as additives must be provided as outlined in Annex II, Part A, section 1, point 1.10. 1.4.3.
Information on target organism(s) 2.2.1.
It must also be stated whether or not the micro-organism or its metabolites are translocated in plants and, where relevant, how this translocation takes place.
in greenhouses), - amenity, - weed control on non-cultivated areas, - home gardening, - house plants, - stored products, - other (specify). 3.3.
Recommended methods and precautions concerning handling, storage, transport or fire A safety data sheet similar to that required for chemical active substances in Article 27 of Directive 67/548/EEC(3) must be provided for each micro-organism. 3.8.
On request the following samples must be provided: (i) samples of the micro-organism as manufactured; (ii) analytical standards of relevant metabolites (especially toxins) and all other components included in the residue definition; (iii) if available, samples of reference substances for the relevant impurities. 4.1.
Methods for the analysis of the micro-organism as manufactured - Methods for the identification of the micro-organism. - Methods for providing information on possible variability of seed stock/active micro-organism. - Methods to differentiate a mutant of the micro-organism from the parent wild strain. - Methods for the establishment of purity of seed stock from which batches are produced and methods to control that purity. - Methods to determine the content of the micro-organism in the manufactured material used for the production of formulated products and methods to show that contaminating micro-organisms are controlled to an acceptable level. - Methods for the determination of relevant impurities in the manufactured material. - Methods to control the absence and to quantify (with appropriate limits of determination) the possible presence of any human and mammalian pathogens. - Methods to determine storage stability, shelf-life of the micro-organism, if appropriate. 4.2.
Methods to determine and quantify residues (viable or non-viable) of: - the active micro-organism(s), - relevant metabolites (especially toxins), on and/or in crop, in foodstuffs and feeding stuffs, in animal and human body tissues and fluids, in soil, in water (including drinking water, ground water and surface water) and in air where relevant.
Sensitisation(6) Aim of the test The test will provide sufficient information to assess the potential of the micro-organism to provoke sensitisation reactions by inhalation as well as with dermal exposure.
Acute toxicity, pathogenicity and infectiveness The studies, data and information to be provided and evaluated must be sufficient to permit the identification of effects following a single exposure to the micro-organism, and in particular to establish, or indicate: - the toxicity, pathogenicity and infectiveness of the micro-organism, - the time course and characteristics of the effects with full details of behavioural changes and possible gross pathological findings at post-mortem, - where possible mode of toxic action, - the relative hazards associated with the different routes of exposure, and - blood analyses throughout the studies in order to evaluate the clearance of the micro-organism.
The information generated through acute toxicity, pathogenicity and infectiveness testing is of particular value in assessing hazards likely to arise in accident situations and consumer risks due to exposure to possible residues. 5.2.2.1.
Acute oral toxicity, pathogenicity and infectiveness Circumstances in which required The acute oral toxicity, pathogenicity and infectiveness of the micro-organism must be reported. 5.2.2.2.
Acute inhalation toxicity, pathogenicity and infectiveness Circumstances in which required The inhalation toxicity(8), pathogenicity and infectiveness of the micro-organism must be reported. 5.2.2.3.
The studies, data and information to be provided and evaluated, must be sufficient to permit the identification of effects following repeated exposure to the micro-organism, and in particular to further establish, or indicate: - the relationship between dose and adverse effects, - toxicity of the micro-organism including where necessary the NOAEL for toxins, - target organs, where relevant, - the time course and characteristics of the effects with full details of behavioural changes and possible gross pathological findings at post-mortem, - specific toxic effects and pathological changes produced, - where relevant the persistence and reversibility of certain toxic effects observed, following discontinuation of dosing, - where possible, the mode of toxic action, and - the relative hazard associated with the different routes of exposure.
Circumstances in which required Information on the short-term infectiveness, pathogenicity and toxicity (respiratory route) of a micro-organism is required, unless the information already provided is sufficient to assess human health effects.
The test can be an in vivo study or an in vitro study using a different metabolising system from that/those previously used.
If the in vitro cytogenetic test is positive, an in vivo test using somatic cells (metaphase analysis in rodent bone marrow or micronucleus test in rodents) must be conducted.
Genotoxicity - In vivo studies in germ cells Aim of the test and test conditions See point 5.4.
Circumstances in which required When any result of an in vivo study in somatic cells is positive, in vitro testing for germ cell effects may be justified.
It is recognised that in view of their complexity, the use of quantitative studies would require strong justification. (END OF TIER II) 5.6.
Summary of mammalian toxicity, pathogenicity and infectiveness and overall evaluation A summary of all data and information provided under points 5.1 through 5.5, must be submitted, and include a detailed and critical assessment of those data in the context of relevant evaluative and decision making criteria and guidelines, with particular reference to the risks for man and animals that may or do arise, and the extent, quality and reliability of the data base.
If relevant quantities of the micro-organism or of produced metabolites, especially toxins, have been found to be persistant in section 2, points 2.4 and 2.5, full experimental residue data as provided for in Annex II, Part A, section 6, is required, if concentrations of the micro-organism and/or its toxins in or on the treated foodstuffs or feedingstuffs are expected to occur in concentrations higher than under natural conditions or in a different phenotypic state.
Viable residues If the information submitted according to point 6.1 suggests persistance of relevant amounts of the micro-organism in or on treated products, food or feed, possible effects on humans and/or animals must be investigated, unless it can be justified from section 5, that the micro-organism and its metabolites and/or degradation products are not hazardous to humans in the concentrations and of the nature that could occur as a result of authorised use.
The persistence of viable residues needs special attention if infectiveness or pathogenicity to mammals have been found in sections 2.3, 2.5 or 5 and/or if any other information suggests a hazard to consumers and/or workers.
In this case the competent authorities may require studies similar to those provided for in Part A.
Summary and evaluation of residue behaviour resulting from data submitted under points 6.1 and 6.2 7.
Air In case of particular concerns for operator, worker or bystander exposure, information on the concentrations in air might be necessary. 7.2.
In this case the competent authorities may require studies similar to those provided for in Part A.
EFFECTS ON NON-TARGET ORGANISMS Introduction (i) The information on identity, biological properties and further information in sections 1 to 3 and 7 is central to the assessment of impact on non-target species.
The information submitted in accordance with section 5 will provide essential information as to effects to mammals and the mechanisms involved.
Effects on algae growth Aim of the test Information on effects on algal growth, growth rate and capacity to recover must be reported. 8.2.4.
In particular the following issues should be addressed: - distribution and fate in the environment, and the time courses involved, - identification of non-target species and populations at risk, and the extent of their potential exposure, - identification of precautions necessary to avoid or minimise contamination of the environment, and for the protection of non-target species.%quot% (1) USEPA Microbial Pesticide Test Guidelines, OPPTS Series 885, February 1996( http://www.epa.gov/oppbppd1/biopesticides/guidelines/series885.htm ). (2) OJ L 117, 8.5.1990, p. 15. (3) See doc. 6853/VI/98, Concise outline report of the first peer review meeting on micro-organisms. (4) OJ L 327, 3.12.1980, p. 8. (5) OJ L 374, 31.12.1990, p. 1. (6) The available methods for testing dermal sensitisation are not suitable for testing micro-organisms.
ANNEX II Annex III to Directive 91/414/EEC is amended as follows: (1) The following point 2.6 is added to the introduction : %quot%2.6.
By way of derogation from point 2.1, for active substances consisting of micro-organisms or viruses, tests and analyses done to obtain data on the properties and/or safety with respect to other aspects than human health, may have been conducted by official or officially recognised testing facilities or organisations which satisfy at least the requirements under points 2.2 and 2.3 of the introduction of Annex III.%quot% (2) PART B is replaced by the following: %quot%PART B Introduction (i) This Part provides data requirements for the authorisation of a plant protection product based on preparations of micro-organisms including viruses.
Where, in addition, the applicant has an office, agent or representative in the Member State in which the authorisation is being sought, the name and address of the local office, agent or representative should be provided, as should the name, position, telephone and fax number of the appropriate person to contact. 1.2.
If the micro-organism originates from a producer from which data according to Annex II, Part B, had not been submitted previously, detailed information on the name and species description, as required in Annex II, Part B, section 1.3, and on impurities, as required in Annex II, Part B, section 1.4, have to be provided. 1.3.
For each component of the formulants the relevant EC (Einecs or Elincs) number and CAS number where they exist, must be provided.
Chemicals (inert components, by-products, etc.) must be identified as outlined in Annex II, Part A, section 1, point 1.10.
Function The biological function must be specified from among the following: - control of bacteria, - control of fungi, - control of insects, - control of mites, - control of molluscs, - control of nematodes, - control of weeds, - other (must be specified). 2.
Useful information is given in GIFAP(3) Monograph No 17. 2.2.2.
Explosivity and oxidising properties Explosivity and oxidising properties will be determined as defined in Annex III, Part A, section 2, point 2.2, unless it can be justified that it is technically or scientifically not necessary to perform such studies. 2.4.
Acidity, alkalinity and if necessary pH value Acidity, alkalinity and pH will be determined as defined in Annex III, Part A, section 2, point 2.4, unless it can be justified that it is technically or scientifically not necessary to perform such studies. 2.6.
Viscosity and surface tension Viscosity and surface tension will be determined as defined in Annex III, Part A, section 2, point 2.5, unless it can be justified that it is technically or scientifically not necessary to perform such studies. 2.7.
Persistent foaming The persistence of foaming of preparations to be diluted with water, must be determined and reported according to CIPAC Method MT 47. 2.7.3.
It must also be stated whether or not the product is translocated in plants and, where relevant, if such translocation is apoplastic, symplastic or both. 3.3.
Application rate For each method of application and each use, the rate of application per unit (ha, m2, m3) treated, in terms of g or kg or l for the preparation and in terms of appropriate units for the micro-organism, must be provided.
Application rates shall normally be expressed in g or kg/ha or in kg/m3 and where appropriate in g or kg/tonne; for protected crops and home gardening use rates shall be expressed in g or kg/100 m2 or g or kg/m3. 3.5.
Proposed instructions for use The proposed instructions for use of the preparation, to be printed on labels and leaflets, must be provided. 4.
Where relevant, assessment has to be done according to ISO TR 9122.
Controlled incineration In many cases the preferred or sole means to safely dispose of plant protection products and in particular the formulants contained in it, contaminated materials, or contaminated packaging, is through controlled incineration in a licensed incinerator.
Data must be provided for such methods, to establish their effectiveness and safety. 5.
Methods for the analysis of the preparation - Methods, which must be described in full, must be provided for the identification and the determination of the content of the micro-organism in the preparation.
In the case of a preparation containing more than one micro-organism, methods capable of identifying and determining the content of each one should be provided. - Methods to establish regular control of the final product (preparation) in order to show that it does not contain other organisms than the indicated ones and to establish its uniformity. - Methods to identify any contaminating micro-organisms of the preparation. - Methods used to determine the storage stability and shelf life of the preparation must be provided. 5.2.
Methods to determine and quantify residues Analytical methods for the determination of residues, as defined in Annex II, Part B, section 4, point 4.2, must be submitted unless it is justified that the information already submitted according to the requirements of Annex II, Part B, section 4, point 4.2, is sufficient. 6.
The information generated through acute toxicity testing is of particular value in assessing hazards likely to arise in accident situations. 7.1.1.
Acute oral toxicity Circumstances in which required An acute oral test should always be carried out unless the applicant can justify to the satisfaction of the competent authority that Article 3(2) of Directive 78/631/EEC can be invoked.
Acute inhalation toxicity Aim of the test The test will provide the inhalation toxicity to rats of the plant protection product.
Test guideline The test must be carried out in accordance with Method B.2 of Directive 92/69/EEC. 7.1.3.
Acute percutaneous toxicity Circumstances in which required An acute percutaneous test should always be carried out unless the applicant can justify to the satisfaction of the competent authority that Article 3(2) of Directive 78/631/EEC can be invoked.
Skin irritation Aim of the test The test will provide the potential of skin irritancy of the plant protection product including the potential reversibility of the effects observed.
Test guideline The test must be carried out in accordance with Method B.4 of Directive 92/69/EEC. 7.2.2.
Eye irritation Aim of the test The test will provide the potential for eye irritation of the plant protection product, including the potential reversibility of the effects observed.
Circumstances in which required The eye irritancy of the plant protection product must be determined, where the formulants are suspected to be eye irritant, except where the micro-organism is eye irritant or where it is likely, as indicated in the test guideline, that severe effects on the eyes may be produced.
Test guideline The eye irritation must be determined in accordance with Method B.5 of Directive 92/69/EEC. 7.2.3.
Circumstances in which required The test must be carried out where the formulants are suspected to have skin sensitising properties, except where the micro-organism(s) or the formulants are known to have skin sensitising properties.
Test guideline The tests have to be carried out in accordance with Method B.6 of Directive 92/69/EEC. 7.3.
Decisions as to the need for supplementary studies must be made on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the results of the acute toxicity studies of the individual plant protection products, the possibility for exposure to the combination of the products concerned and available information or practical experience with the products concerned or similar products. 7.6.
Summary and evaluation of health effects A summary of all data and information provided under paragraphs 7.1 through 7.5, must be submitted, and include a detailed and critical assessment of those data in the context of relevant evaluative and decision-making criteria and guidelines, with particular reference to the risks for man and animals that may or do arise, and the extent, quality and reliability of the database. 8.
EFFECTS ON NON-TARGET ORGANISMS Introduction (i) The information provided, taken together with that for the micro-organism(s), must be sufficient to permit an assessment of the impact on non-target species (flora and fauna), of the plant protection product, when used as proposed.
Effects on birds The same information as provided in Annex II, Part B, section 8, point 8.1, has to be reported where it is not possible to predict the effects of the plant protection product on the basis of the data available for the micro-organism, unless it can be justified that exposure of birds is unlikely to occur. 10.2.
Effects on aquatic organisms The same information as provided in Annex II, Part B, section 8, point 8.2, has to be reported where it is not possible to predict the effects of the plant protection product on the basis of the data available for the micro-organism, unless it can be justified that exposure of aquatic organisms is unlikely to occur. 10.3.
Effects on bees The same information as provided in Annex II, Part B, section 8, point 8.3, has to be reported where it is not possible to predict the effects of the plant protection product on the basis of the data available for the micro-organism, unless it can be justified that exposure of bees is unlikely to occur. 10.4.
Effects on arthropods other than bees The same information as provided in Annex II, Part B, section 8, point 8.4, has to be reported where it is not possible to predict the effects of the plant protection product on the basis of the data available for the micro-organism, unless it can be justified that exposure of arthropods other than bees is unlikely to occur. 10.5.
Effects on earthworms The same information as provided in Annex II, Part B, section 8, point 8.5, has to be reported where it is not possible to predict the effects of the plant protection product on the basis of the data available for the micro-organism, unless it can be justified that exposure of earthworms is unlikely to occur. 10.6.
In particular the following issues should be addressed: - prediction of distribution and fate in the environment, and the time courses involved, - identification of non-target species and populations at risk, and prediction of the extent of potential exposure, - identification of precautions necessary to avoid or minimise contamination of the environment, and for the protection of non-target species.%quot% (1) USEPA Microbial Pesticide Test Guidelines, OPPTS Series 885, February 1996( http://www.epa.gov/oppbppd1/biopesticides/guidelines/series885.htm ). (2) Collaborative International Pesticides Analytical Council. (3) International Group of National Pesticide Manufacturers' Associations. (4) OJ L 221, 31.8.1993, p. 27. (5) OJ L 383, 29.12.1992, p. 113. (6) OJ L 200, 30.7.1999, p. 1. (7) OJ L 76, 22.3.1991, p. 35.
