The Member States shall establish lists of named fishing vessels flying their respective flags which are authorized to carry out their fishing activities in the fisheries defined in Annex I. 2.
TITLE I Measures concerning the catching of demersal species Article 3 1.
With regard to each fishery for the catching of demersal species as defined in Annex I, the Member States shall assess the fishing effort necessary, on the basis of Community criteria for assessing the fishing efforts defined in Annex II. 2.
The Member States concerned shall assess the fishing effort in ICES areas VII a and VII f north of latitude 50 °30%amp%prime; north in the light of traditional fishing activities. 5.
The Member States concerned shall assess the fishing effort in the area south of latitude 56 °30%amp%prime; north, east of longitude 12 ° west and north of latitude 50 °30%amp%prime; north on the basis of the level of existing activity for their respective vessels, except for those flying the flag of Spain.
TITLE II Measures concerning the catching of pelagic species Article 4 1.
With regard to the catching of pelagic species, including the highly migratory species, defined in Annex I, the Member States shall take steps to ensure a posteriori monitoring of the actual fishing effort. 2.
With a view to guaranteeing that the controls on fishing efforts, referred to in Article 3 (4) and (5), shall apply to fishing for pelagic species and other non-demersal species in ICES areas VII a and VII f, the Council will take a decision on a proposal from the Commission in accordance with the procedure provided for in paragraph 2 of this Article.
TITLE III General provisions Article 5 1.
The Member States shall communicate the following information to the Commission by 31 March 1995 at the latest: - the lists of named vessels referred to in Article 2 for demersal fisheries; - an assessment of the necessary fishing effort, as referred to in Article 3 (1); - if necessary, the proposed arrangements for regulating the fishing effort, as referred to in Article 3 (3). 2.
On the basis of the information referred to in Article 5 and after close consultation with the Member States concerned the Commission shall submit to the Council, by 30 April 1995 at the latest, a proposal for a Regulation on the regulation of the fishing effort. 2.
Should the Council fail to decide by 31 July 1995 at the latest, the Commission shall adopt, on the basis of the proposal mentioned in paragraph 1, if possible by 31 October 1995 at the latest, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 18 of Regulation (EEC) No 3760/92, the measures needed to ensure that each Member State does not increase its fishing effort beyond the existing level. 4.
If the measures laid down in paragraph 3 are not adopted by the Commission before 31 December 1995, the lists of named fishing vessels and, if necessary, the arrangements for regulating the fishing effort which are communicated to the Commission by the Member States shall apply.
In this context, the Member State may regulate fishing effort by monitoring the activity of its fleet and by taking appropriate action if the level of the fishing effort authorized pursuant to Article 6 is about to be reached. 2.
The Member States shall take the necessary action to make it compulsory for vessels flying flags to communicate details of entry into, and exits from, fishing areas, including entry into, and exit from, fishing ports located within these areas, in which fishing effort limitation or limitation on capacity apply, and of entries into, and exits from, the area lying south of latitude 56 °30%amp%prime; north, east of longitude 12 ° west and north of latitude 50 °30%amp%prime; north.
Communications and declarations referred to in paragraphs 3 and 4 shall be made simultaneously to the flag State and the coastal States concerned. 6.
The Commission shall, by 30 June 1995 at the latest, submit proposals for amending Council Regulation (EEC) No 2847/93 of 12 October 1993 establishing a control system applicable to the common fisheries policy (1), in particular Article 6 thereof on the obligation to register catches and fishing effort.
The Council shall act on these proposals before 31 December 1995. 7.
The Commission shall provide the Member States, by 15 September of each year at the latest with a full report on the inspections carried out by the Commission in the preceding calendar year, together with an assessment of the results of the inspections and an account of any improvements in national enforcement arrangements which have been recommended.
Article 8 The Member States shall take the measures referred to in Annex III before 1 January 1996.
The provisions laid down in Articles 2, 3, 4 (2) and 7 shall apply to vessels of over 15 metres between the perpendiculars. 2.
Article 10 In accordance with Articles 4 and 8 of Regulation (EEC) No 3760/92, the Council shall, by 31 December 1995 at the latest, fix the total admissible catches for the different stocks of horse mackerel in ICES area X and CECAF and shall allocate those fishing possibilities to Spain and Portugal in the corresponding areas.
In accordance with the provisions and procedures laid down in Article 4 of Regulation (EEC) No 3760/92 and in compliance with the principle of non-discrimination, the Council shall act by 30 June 1995 at the latest on the amendments to be made to Council Regulation (EEC) No 3094/86 of 7 October 1986 laying down certain technical measures for the conservation of fishery resources (1), in the light of the information contained in Annex V. 2.
The Commission shall submit proposals by 30 June 1995 at the latest in order to improve technical conservation measures, in particular with regard to the selectivity of fishing gear in western Community waters.
The Council shall act on these measures by 31 December 1995 at the latest in accordance with the provisions and procedures laid down in Article 4 of Regulation (EEC) No 3760/92.
Article 13 This Regulation shall enter into force on the third day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Done at Brussels, 27 March 1995.
PUECH ANNEX I %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% ANNEX II COMMUNITY CRITERIA FOR THE EVALUATION OF FISHING EFFORT Fishing effort In accordance with Article 3 of Regulation (EEC) No 3760/92, fishing effort is defined as follows: - in the case of a vessel, as the product of its capacity and its activity; - in the case of a fleet or of a group of vessels, as the sum of the fishing effort of each individual vessel.
ANNEX III CONDITIONS GOVERNING THE EXERCISE OF FISHING ACTIVITIES 1.
Catches of crustaceans, in the form of a by-catch, will be permitted only up to 10 % of the volume of the catch kept on board in the course of directed fishing for hake and other demersal species. 2.
Surface longlines and troll line tuna fishing The fishing activities of vessels flying the flag of Spain in continental waters under the sovereignty or jurisdiction of Portugal in ICES area IX and Cecaf and the fishing activities of vessels flying the flag of Portugal in continental waters under the sovereignty or jurisdiction of Spain in ICES areas VIII and IX and Cecaf are authorized in accordance with the Community provisions in force. 3.
Exchanges between France and Portugal will be tacitly renewable for the period 1995 to 2002, subject to the possibility of annual amendment of the conditions thereof by each Member State at the time of the annual fixing of TACs and quotas.
Exchanges between Spain and France, based on the 1992 bilateral agreement on anchovies, shall become operative as from 1995 with a multiannual prospect, bearing in mind the concerns of the two Member States, including in particular the level of the annual exchange of quotas, the control measures and the problems of the market, subject to the possibility of annual amendment of the conditions thereof by each Member State at the time of the annual fixing of TACs and quotas.
Exchanges concern the following TACs: (i) in the case of the TAC for cod in ICES areas Vb, VI, XII and XIV, 10 tonnes of France's fishing possibilities will be transferred to Spain every year; (ii) in the case of the TAC for cod in ICES areas VIIb, k, VIII, IX and X and Cecaf 34.1.1, 50 tonnes of France's fishing possibilities will be transferred to Spain every year; (iii) in the case of the TAC for haddock in ICES areas Vb, VI, XII and XIV, 10 tonnes of France's fishing possibilities will be transferred to Spain every year; (iv) in the case of the TAC for haddock in ICES areas VII, VIII, IX, X and Cecaf 34.1.1, 55 tonnes of France's fishing possibilities will be transferred to Spain every year; (v) in the case of whiting in ICES areas Vb, VI, XII and XIV, 10 tonnes of France's fishing possibilities will be transferred to Spain every year; (vi) in the case of the TAC for saithe in ICES areas VIIb, k, 50 tonnes of France's fishing possibilities will be transferred to Spain every year; (vii) in the case of the TAC for hake in ICES areas Vb, VI, XII and XIV, 2 200 tonnes of France's fishing possibilities will be transferred to Spain every year; (viii) in the case of the TAC for monkfish in ICES area VII, 300 tonnes of France's fishing possibilities will be transferred to Spain every year. (ix) in the case of the TAC for anchovy in ICES area VIII, 9 000 tonnes of Spain's fishing possibilities will be transferred to France every year. 1.3.
Exchanges concern the following TACs: (i) in the case of cod in ICES areas Vb, VI, XII and XIV, 10 tonnes of Belgium's fishing possibilities will be transferred to Spain every year; (ii) in the case of the TAC for haddock in ICES areas Vb, VI, XII and XIV, 10 tonnes of Belgium's fishing possibilities will be transferred to Spain every year; (iii) in the case of the TAC for whiting in ICES area VIIb, k, 15 tonnes of Belgium's fishing possibilities will be transferred to Spain every year; (iv) in the case of the TAC for monkfish in ICES area VII, 150 tonnes of Belgium's fishing possibilities will be transferred to Spain every year; (v) in the case of the TAC for megrim in ICES areas VIIIa, b, d and e, 30 tonnes of Spain's fishing possibilities will be transferred to Belgium every year; (vi) in the case of the TAC for Norway lobster in ICES area VII, 100 tonnes of Spain's fishing possibilities will be transferred to Belgium every year; (vii) in the case of the TAC for monkfish in ICES areas VIIIa, b and d, 60 tonnes of Spain's fishing possibilities will be transferred to Belgium every year; (viii) in the case of the TAC for hake in ICES areas VIIIa, b, d and e, 30 tonnes of Spain's fishing possibilities will be transferred to Belgium every year; 2.
Spain will limit its annual catches of hake in waters under the sovereignty or jurisdiction of Portugal to 850 tonnes and its annual catches of horse mackerel in the said waters to 2 250 tonnes. 2.2.
Portugal will limit its annual catches of hake in waters under the sovereignty or jurisdiction of Spain to 850 tonnes and its annual catches of horse mackerel in the said waters to 2 250 tonnes.
Ban on the use of drift nets for catching tuna in waters under the sovereignty or jurisdiction of Portugal and Spain in ICES areas VIII, IX, X and Cecaf. 2.
