The programme shall start on 1 January 2004 and shall end on 31 December 2006.
Article 2 Access to the programme To be eligible for a grant, a body must satisfy the requirements of the Annex and have the following characteristics: (a) it must be an independent and non-profit-making legal person primarily active in the field of education and training, with an objective aimed at the public good; (b) it must have been legally established for more than two years and have had its annual statement of accounts for the two preceding years certified by a registered auditor; (c) its activities must be in accordance with the principles underlying Community action in the field of education and training and take account of the priorities set out in the Annex.
Article 4 Selection of beneficiaries The programme covers two groups of beneficiaries: (a) group 1: operating grants directly awarded in accordance to the beneficiaries listed by name in point 2 of the Annex; (b) group 2: support for European associations active in the field of education or training, support for activities in the field of higher education concerning European integration, including Jean Monnet chairs, support for activities contributing to the achievement of the future objectives of education and training systems in Europe and support for training of national judges in the field of European law and for organisations for judicial cooperation.
Article 5 Award of the grant Grants under the different actions of the programme shall be awarded in compliance with the provisions set out in the relevant part of the Annex.
Article 6 Financial provisions 1.
Article 7 Implementation The Commission shall be responsible for implementing this programme in accordance with the provisions set out in the Annex.
Article 8 Monitoring and evaluation 1.
Not later than 31 December 2007, the Commission shall submit a report to the European Parliament and the Council on the achievement of the programme's objectives.
This report shall be based, inter alia, on an external evaluation report which must be available no later than the end of 2006 and which shall appraise at least the overall pertinence and coherence of the programme, the effectiveness of its execution (preparation, selection, implementation of the actions) and the overall and individual effectiveness of the various actions in terms of achievement of the objectives as set out in Article 1 and in the Annex.
The European Parliament and the Council shall, in accordance with the Treaty, decide on the continuation of the programme as from 1 January 2007.
Article 9 Entry into force This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Done at Strasbourg, 21 April 2004.
Cox For the Council The President D.
Roche [1] OJ C 32, 5.2.2004, p. 52. [2] Opinion of the European Parliament of 6 November 2003 (not yet published in the Official Journal).
The resources to be committed under Action 1 will be not more than 65 % and not less than 58 % of the total budget available for this programme.
Action 2: Support for European associations active in the field of education or training Grants may be awarded under this action of the programme to support certain operational and administrative costs of European associations active in the field of education and training, which fulfil the following minimum criteria: - exist as a body pursuing an aim of general European interest as defined in Article 162 of the implementing rules of the Financial Regulation laid down by Commission Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2342/2002 [1], - operate in the field of education and training at European level and pursue clear and well-defined objectives laid down in their official articles of association, - have members in at least twelve Member States of the European Union, - be composed of national, regional or local associations, - be located and have legal status in one of the Member States of the European Union, - undertake the majority of its activity in the Member States of the European Union, in countries belonging to the European Economic Area and/or in the candidate countries.
The Community grant will not cover more than 75 % of the eligible costs set out in an approved workplan for the association.
The resources to be committed under Action 2 will not be more than 4 % of the total budget available for this programme.
The Community grant will not cover more than 75 % of the eligible costs of activities selected for funding under this action.
The resources to be committed under Action 3A will be not more than 24 % and not less than 20 % of the total budget available for this programme.
These activities may include forward-looking approaches covering the period up to 2010 and may cover both intra-European aspects and aspects concerning Europe's place in the world.
This action will be implemented by means of grants awarded following the selection of proposals submitted in response to one or more calls for proposals.
The Community grant will not normally cover more than 75 % of the eligible costs of selected proposals.
The resources to be committed under Action 3B will be not more than 14 % and not less than 9 % of the total budget available for this programme.
The Community grant will not normally cover more than 75 % of the eligible costs of the activity set out in an approved workplan.
The resources to be committed under Action 3C will not be more than 4 % of the total budget available for this programme. 3.
In this case, the grant agreement should be signed by 30 June 2004 at the latest. 6.
MANAGEMENT OF THE PROGRAMME In the light of a cost/benefit analysis, the Commission may decide to entrust all or part of the tasks of managing the programme to an executive agency, in conformity with Article 55 of the Financial Regulation.
Where necessary, investigations shall be conducted by the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) and these shall be governed by Regulation (EC) No 1073/1999 of the European Parliament and of the Council [4]. [1] OJ L 357, 31.12.2002, p. 1. [2] Detailed work programme on the follow-up of the objectives of education and training systems in Europe (OJ C 142, 14.6.2002, p. 1). [3] OJ L 292, 15.11.1996, p. 2. [4] OJ L 136, 31.5.1999, p. 1. --------------------------------------------------
