Article 4 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 21 December 1994.
For the Commission René STEICHEN Member of the Commission (1) OJ No L 230, 19. 8. 1991, p. 1.(2) OJ No L 227, 1. 9. 1994, p. 31.
Where dosing via the diet is utilized the test compound must be distributed uniformly in the diet. (vii) Where, as a result of metabolism or other processes in or on treated plants, or as a result of processing of treated products, the terminal residue (to which consumers or workers as defined in Annex III, point 7.2.3 will be exposed) contains a substance which is not the active substance itself and is not identified as a metabolite in mammals, it will be necessary to carry out toxicity studies on these components of the terminal residue unless it can be demonstrated that consumer or worker exposure to these substances does not constitute a relevant risk to health.
Circumstances in which required A single dose toxicokinetic study in rats (oral route of administration) in at least two dose levels as well as a repeated dose toxicokinetic study in rats (oral route of administration) at a single dose level, must be conducted and reported.
Acute toxicity The studies, data and information to be provided and evaluated must be sufficient to permit the identification of effects following a single exposure to the active substance, and in particular to establish, or indicate: - the toxicity of the active substance; - the time course and characteristics of the effects with full details of behavioural changes and possible gross pathological findings at post-mortem; - where possible mode of toxic action; and - the relative hazard associated with the different routes of exposure.
The information generated through acute toxicity testing is of particular value in assessing hazards likely to arise in accident situations. 5.2.1.
Oral Circumtances in which required The acute oral toxicity of the active substance must always be reported.
Percutaneous Circumstances in which required The acute percutaneous toxicity of the active substance must always be reported.
The test must be carried out in accordance with Directive 92/69/EEC method B3. 5.2.3.
Inhalation Circumstances in which required The inhalation toxicity of the active substance must be reported where the active substance is: - a gas or liquified gas, - is to be used as a fumigant, - is to be included in a smoke generating, aerosol or vapour releasing preparation, - is to be used with fogging equipment, - has a vapour pressure %gt% 1 × 10-2 Pa and is to be included in preparations to be used in enclosed spaces such as warehouses or glasshouses, - is to be included in preparations which are powders containing a significant proportion of particles of diameter %gt% 50 µm (%gt% 1 % on a weight basis), or - is to be included in preparations to be applied in a manner which generates a significant proportion of particles or droplets of diameter %lt% 50µM (%gt% 1 % on a weight basis).
Test guideline The test must be carried out in accordance with Directive 92/69/EEC Method B2. 5.2.4.
Test guideline The acute skin irritation must be carried out in accordance with Directive 92/69/EEC Method B4. 5.2.5.
Test guidelines The acute eye irritation must be determined in accordance with Directive 92/69/EEC Method B5. 5.2.6.
Test guideline The test must be carried out in accordance with Directive 92/69/EEC Method B6. 5.3.
Other routes Circumstances in which required For the assessment of operator exposure additional percutaneous studies may be useful.
Test guidelines - 28-day dermal: Directive 92/69/EEC Method B9, - 90-day dermal: Directive 87/302/EEC, Part B, sub-chronic dermal toxicity study, - 28-day inhalation: Directive 92/69/EEC Method B8, - 90-day inhalation: Directive 87/302/EEC, Part B, sub-chronic inhalation toxicity study. 5.4.
The test can be an in vivo study or an in vitro study using a different metabolizing system from that/those previously used.
If the in vitro cytogenetic test is positive, an in vivo test using somatic cells (metaphase analysis in rodent bone marrow or micronucleus test in rodents) must be conducted.
Long term toxicity and carcinogenicity Aim of the test The long-term studies conducted and reported, taken together with other relevant data and information on the active substance, must be sufficient to permit the identification of effects, following repeated exposure to the active substance, and in particular must be sufficient to: - identify adverse effects resulting from exposure to the active substance, - identify target organs, where relevant, - establish the dose-response relationship, - identify changes in toxic signs and manifestations observed, and - establish the Noael.
Test conditions A long-term oral toxicity and carcinogenicity study (two years) of the active substance must be conducted using the rat as test species; these studies can be combined.
While the standard reference points for treatment responses are concurrent control data, historical control data, may be helpful in the interpretation of particular carcinogenicity studies.
The highest dose level in the carcinogenicity study should elicit signs of minimal toxicity such as slight depression in body-weight gain (less than 10 %), without causing tissue necrosis or metabolic saturation and without substantially altering normal lifespan due to effects other than tumours.
If the long-term toxicity study is carried out separately, the highest dose level should elicit definite signs of toxicity without causing excessive lethality.
Test guideline The studies must be carried out in accordance with Directive 87/302/EEC, part B, Chronic toxicity test, Carcinogenicity test or combined chronic toxicity/carcinogenicity test. 5.6.
Reproductive toxicity Adverse reproductive effects are of two main types: - impairment of male or female fertility, and - impacts on the normal development of progeny (developmental toxicity).
While the standard reference point for treatment responses are concurrent control data, historical control data may be helpful in the interpretation of particular reproductive studies.
Circumstances in which required The tests must always be carried out.
Test guidelines The test must be carried out in accordance with OECD Guideline 418. 5.8.
Where supported with the necessary level of detail, such documentation can be of particular value in confirming the validity of extrapolations from animal data to man and in identifying unexpected adverse effects which are specific to humans. 5.9.3.
Acute toxicity The studies, data and information to be provided and evaluated, must be sufficient to permit the identification of effects following a single exposure to the plant protection product, to be assessed, and in particular to establish, or indicate: - the toxicity of the plant protection products, - toxicity of the plant protection product relative to the active substance, - the time course and characteristics of the effect with full details of behavioural changes and possible gross pathological findings at post-mortem, - where possible the mode of toxic action, and - the relative hazard associated with the different routes of exposure.
The information generated through acute toxicity testing is of particular value in assessing hazards likely to arise in accident situations. 7.1.1.
Test guidelines The test must be carried out in accordance with Directive 92/69/EEC Method B1 or B1 bis. 7.1.2.
Test guideline The test must be carried out in accordance with Directive 92/69/EEC Method B3. 7.1.3.
Test guideline The test must be carried out in accordance with Directive 92/69/EEC Method B2. 7.1.4.
Skin irritation Aim of the test The test will provide the potential of skin irritancy of the plant protection product including the potential reversibility of the effects observed.
Test guideline The test must be carried out in accordance with Directive 92/69/EEC Method B4. 7.1.5.
Eye irritation Aim of the test The test will provide the protential for eye irritation of the plant protection product, including the potential reversibility of the effects observed.
Test guideline The eye irritation must be determined in accordance with Directive 92/69/EEC Method B5. 7.1.6.
Circumstances in which required An estimation of operator exposure must always be completed.
Circumstances in which required Actual exposure data for the relevant exposure route(s) must be reported where the risk assessment indicates that a health-based limit value is exceeded.
This will, for example, be the case when the results of the estimation of operator exposure provided for under point 7.2.1.1 indicate that: - the Acceptable Operator Exposure Level(s) (AOEL) established in the context of inclusion of the active substance(s) in Annex I, and/or - the Limit Values established for the active substance and/or toxicologically relevant compound(s) of the plant protection product in accordance with Council Directive 80/1107/EEC and Council Directive 90/394/EEC of 28 June 1990 on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work (1), may be exceeded.
Actual exposure data must also be reported when no appropriate calculation model or no appropriate data are available to do the estimation provided for under point 7.2.1.1.
Test conditions The test must be done under realistic exposure conditions taking into account the proposed conditions of use. 7.2.2.
Estimation conditions An estimation of worker exposure must be made for each crop and task to be carried out.
Circumstances in which required Actual exposure data for the relevant exposure route(s) must be reported where the risk assessment indicates that a health-based limit value is exceeded.
Actual exposure data must also be reported when no appropriate calculation model or no appropriate data are available to do the estimation provided for under point 7.2.3.1.
Where dermal exposure is the most important exposure route, a dermal absorption test, if not already available, may be a useful alternative test to provide data in order to refine the estimate provided for under point 7.1.3.1.
Test conditions The test must be done under realistic exposure conditions taking into account the proposed conditions of use. 7.3.
If, when the results of the estimation using these in vivo skin absorption data are incorporated in the risk assessment, there remains an indication of excessive exposure, it may be necessary to perform an in vivo comparative absorption study on rat and human skin.
Test guideline Appropriate elements of OECD guideline 417 are to be used.
All other available information should be submitted.' (1) OJ No L 196, 26. 7. 1990, p. 1.(2) OJ No L 76, 22. 3. 1991, p. 35.
