Regulation (EC) No 2321/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2002 concerning the rules for the participation of undertakings, research centres and universities in, and for the dissemination of research results for, the implementation of the European Community Sixth Framework Programme (2002-2006) (Text with EEA relevance) Regulation (EC) No 2321/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2002 concerning the rules for the participation of undertakings, research centres and universities in, and for the dissemination of research results for, the implementation of the European Community Sixth Framework Programme (2002-2006) (Text with EEA relevance) THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular Article 167 and the second paragraph of Article 172 thereof, Having regard to the proposals from the Commission(1), Having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee(2), Acting in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 251 of the Treaty(3), Whereas: (1) The Sixth Framework Programme of the European Community for research, technological development and demonstration activities, contributing to the creation of the European Research Area and to innovation (2002-2006) (%quot%the Sixth Framework Programme%quot%), was adopted by Decision No 1513/2002/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council(4).
They may, moreover, vary depending on whether the participant is based in a Member State, in an associated State, whether a candidate country or not, or in a third country, and on its legal structure, namely whether it is a national organisation, an international organisation, of European interest or not, a SME, a European Economic Interest Grouping, or an association formed by participants. (4) In conformity with the Sixth Framework Programme, the participation of legal entities from third countries should be envisaged, in line with the objectives of international cooperation, particularly as enshrined in Articles 164 and 170 of the Treaty. (5) International organisations which are dedicated to developing cooperation in the field of research in Europe and which are largely made up of Member States or associated States contribute to the creation of the European Research Area.
They should therefore be encouraged to participate in the Sixth Framework Programme. (6) The Joint Research Centre takes part in indirect research and technological development actions on the same basis as legal entities established in a Member State. (7) Activities under the Sixth Framework Programme should comply with the financial interests of the Community and should safeguard those interests.
Article 3 Independence 1.
Control may result in particular from: (a) direct or indirect holding of more than 50 % of the nominal value of the issued share capital in a legal entity, or of a majority of voting rights of the shareholders or associates of that entity; (b) direct or indirect holding in fact or in law of decision-making powers in a legal entity. 2.
Direct or indirect holding of more than 50 % of the nominal value of the issued share capital in a legal entity or of a majority of voting rights of the shareholders or associates of the said entity by public investment corporations, institutional investors or venture-capital companies and funds shall not in itself constitute a controlling relationship. 3.
CHAPTER II PARTICIPATION IN INDIRECT ACTIONS Article 4 General principles 1.
Any legal entity participating in an indirect action may receive a Community financial contribution subject to Articles 6 and 7. 2.
Any legal entity established in an associated State may participate in indirect actions on the same footing and shall have the same rights and obligations as a legal entity established in a Member State, subject to Article 5. 3.
The JRC may participate in indirect actions on the same footing and shall have the same rights and obligations as a legal entity established in a Member State. 4.
Any international European interest organisation may participate in indirect actions on the same footing and shall have the same rights and obligations as a legal entity established in a Member State in accordance with its headquarters agreement. 5.
Article 5 Minimum numbers of participants and their place of establishment 1.
Subject to paragraph 3, the minimum number of participants established by the work programmes shall not be fewer than three independent legal entities established in three different Member States or associated States, of which at least two shall be Member States or associated candidate countries. 3.
Specific support actions and actions in favour of human resources and mobility, except for research training networks, may be executed by a single legal entity. 4.
An EEIG or any legal entity established in a Member State or associated State according to its national law and which is made up of independent legal entities meeting the criteria of this Regulation may be the sole participant in an indirect action, provided that its composition is in accordance with the conditions fixed pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2.
Article 6 Participation by legal entities from third countries 1.
Over and above the minimum number of participants fixed in accordance with Article 5, any legal entity established in a third country may participate in RTD activities provided for under the heading %quot%Focussing and Integrating Community Research%quot% of the Sixth Framework Programme.
Detailed provisions for this participation may be set out in the relevant work programme.
Any legal entity established in a third country other than a country covered by the second subparagraph, and taking part in the RTD activities referred to in the first subparagraph, may receive a Community financial contribution if provision is made for this purpose under an RTD activity or if it is essential for carrying out the indirect action. 2.
Any legal entity established in a third country which has concluded a scientific and technological cooperation agreement with the Community may take part in RTD activities other than those covered by paragraph 1, over and above the minimum number of participants fixed pursuant to Article 5, in accordance with the conditions stipulated in that agreement.
Any legal entity established in a third country other than those covered by paragraph 2 may take part in RTD activities other than those covered by paragraph 1, over and above the minimum number of participants fixed in accordance with Article 5, if such participation is provided for under an RTD activity or if it is necessary for carrying out the indirect action.
Article 7 Participation by international organisations Any international organisation other than international European interest organisations may take part in the RTD activities referred to in Article 6(1), subject to the conditions set out in the first and third subparagraphs thereof, and in other RTD activities subject to the conditions set out in paragraphs 2 and 3 of that Article.
Article 8 Conditions relating to technical competence and resources 1.
Article 9 Submission of proposals for indirect actions 1.
Calls for proposals may involve a two-stage evaluation procedure.
Paragraph 1 shall not apply to: (a) specific support actions for the activities of the legal entities identified in the work programmes; (b) specific support actions consisting of a purchase or service governed by the terms applicable to public procurement procedures; (c) specific support actions with particular characteristics and value to the objectives and the scientific and technological content of specific programmes, for which grant applications may be submitted to the Commission if so provided for in the work programme of the relevant specific programme and where such a request does not fall within the scope of an open call for proposals; (d) specific support actions covered by Article 11. 3.
Article 10 Evaluation and selection of proposals for indirect actions 1.
The Commission shall evaluate the proposals with the assistance of independent experts appointed in accordance with Article 11.
Article 11 Appointment of independent experts 1.
Article 12 Contracts and consortium agreements 1.
In order to ensure the protection of the financial interests of the Community, appropriate penalties shall be included in the contracts, as defined, inter alia, in Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2988/95 of 18 December 1995 on the protection of the European Communities' financial interests(7). 4.
The conclusion of a contract shall not affect the right of the Commission to adopt a recovery decision, enforceable in accordance with Article 256 of the Treaty, to obtain reimbursement of an amount due from a participant.
Article 13 Execution of indirect actions 1.
Article 14 Community financial contribution 1.
Costs for management of the consortium shall be reimbursed up to 100 % of the costs incurred and shall include the cost of audit certificates.
A share of no more than 7 % shall be reserved for management costs by the consortium.
Article 15 Changes in consortium membership 1.
New participants shall accede to the contract in accordance with the terms of Article 12(2). 2.
Article 16 Additional financial contribution The Commission may increase the Community financial contribution to an indirect action already under way in order to expand its scope to cover new activities which may involve new participants.
The Commission shall evaluate and select such proposals in accordance with Article 10.
Article 17 Consortium activities in favour of third parties If the contract provides for the consortium to undertake all or some of its activities in favour of third parties, the consortium shall ensure that this is properly made public, in accordance, where applicable, with the contract.
Article 18 Scientific, technological and financial monitoring and audits 1.
Article 19 Information made available to Member States and associated States The Commission shall make available to any Member State or associated State, upon request, its useful information on knowledge arising from work carried out in an indirect action, provided that such information is relevant to public policies, unless the participants provide a reasoned case against doing so.
Article 20 Protection of the financial interests of the Community The Commission shall ensure that, when indirect actions are implemented, the financial interests of the Community are protected by effective checks and by deterrent measures and, if irregularities are detected, by penalties which are effective, proportionate and dissuasive, in accordance with Council Regulations (EC, Euratom) No 2988/95 and (Euratom, EC) No 2185/96(9), and with Regulation (EC) No 1073/1999 of the European Parliament and of the Council(10).
CHAPTER III RULES FOR DISSEMINATION AND USE Article 21 Ownership of knowledge 1.
Knowledge arising from work carried out under direct actions shall be the property of the Community. 2.
Knowledge arising from work carried out under indirect actions provided for in Article 9(2)(b) and (d) shall be the property of the Community.
Knowledge arising from work carried out under other indirect actions shall be the property of the participants carrying out the work leading to that knowledge. 3.
Knowledge arising from work carried out under cooperative or collective research projects shall be the joint property of the SMEs or the enterprise groupings, which shall agree on the allocation and the terms of exercising the ownership of the knowledge in particular in the consortium agreement in accordance with the provisions of this Regulation and of the contract. 5.
If personnel employed by a participant are entitled to claim rights to knowledge, the participant shall take steps or reach appropriate agreements to ensure that these rights can be exercised in a manner compatible with its obligations under this Regulation and the contract. 6.
The Commission may object to any transfer of ownership to third parties, in particular to those not established in a Member State or an associated State, if such a transfer is not in accordance with the interests of developing the competitiveness of the dynamic, knowledge-based European economy, or is inconsistent with ethical principles.
Article 22 Protection of knowledge 1.
Article 23 Use and dissemination of knowledge 1.
Article 24 Making available knowledge arising from direct actions Knowledge arising from work carried out under direct actions may be made available to one or more interested legal entities, in particular to those established in a Member State or an Associated State, provided that the said legal entities undertake to use the knowledge or to ensure that it is used.
Article 25 Principles for access rights in indirect actions 1.
Access rights in accordance with Articles 26 and 27 shall be granted on written request.
Participants may also conclude agreements with the purpose, in particular, of granting additional or more favourable access rights, including access rights to third parties, in particular to enterprises associated with participants, or specifying the requirements applicable to access rights, but not restricting the latter.
Article 26 Access rights for the execution of indirect actions 1.
Access rights to pre-existing know-how shall also be granted on a royalty-free basis, unless otherwise agreed, before signature of the contract. 2.
Article 27 Access rights for use 1.
Access rights to pre-existing know-how shall be granted under fair and non-discriminatory conditions. 2.
Article 28 Incompatible or restrictive commitments 1.
Article 29 This Regulation shall enter into force on the third day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Done at Brussels, 16 December 2002.
Cox For the Council The President M.
Fischer Boel (1) OJ C 332 E, 27.11.2001, p. 275, OJ C 103 E, 30.4.2002, p. 266 and OJ C 262 E, 29.10.2002, p. 489. (2) OJ C 94, 18.4.2002, p. 1. (3) Opinion of the European Parliament of 3 July 2002 (not yet published in the Official Journal), and Council Decision of 5 November 2002. (4) OJ L 232, 29.8.2002, p. 1. (5) OJ L 199, 31.7.1985, p. 1. (6) OJ L 107, 30.4.1996, p. 4. (7) OJ L 312, 23.12.1995, p. 1. (8) OJ C 45, 17.2.1996, p. 5. (9) Council Regulation (Euratom, EC) No 2185/96 of 11 November 1996 concerning on-the-spot checks and inspections carried out by the Commission in order to protect the European Communities' financial interests against fraud and other irregularities (OJ L 292, 15.11.1996, p. 2). (10) Regulation (EC) No 1073/1999 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 May 1999 concerning investigations conducted by the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) (OJ L 136, 31.5.1999, p. 1).
