Commission Regulation (EC) No 1139/2003 of 27 June 2003 amending Regulation (EC) No 999/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards monitoring programmes and specified risk material Commission Regulation (EC) No 1139/2003 of 27 June 2003 amending Regulation (EC) No 999/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards monitoring programmes and specified risk material THE COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, Having regard to Regulation (EC) No 999/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 May 2001 laying down rules for the prevention, control and eradication of certain transmissible spongiform encephalopathies(1), as last amended by Commission Regulation (EC) No 1003/2003(2), and in particular Article 23 thereof, Whereas: (1) Regulation (EC) No 999/2001 lays down rules for the monitoring of transmissible spongiform encephalopathy (TSE) in ovine and caprine animals, including monitoring of a sample of animals not slaughtered for human consumption.
Done at Brussels, 27 June 2003.
For the Commission David Byrne Member of the Commission (1) OJ L 147, 31.5.2001, p. 1. (2) OJ L 152, 20.6.2003, p. 8. (3) OJ L 273, 10.10.2002, p. 1. (4) OJ L 117, 13.5.2003, p. 1.
General Monitoring in bovine animals shall be carried out in accordance with the laboratory methods laid down in Annex X, Chapter C, point 3(1)(b). 2.
Monitoring in animals slaughtered for human consumption 2.1.
All bovine animals over 24 months of age: - subject to %quot%special emergency slaughtering%quot% as defined in Article 2(n) of Council Directive 64/433/EEC(1), or - slaughtered in accordance with Annex I, Chapter VI, point 28(c), to Directive 64/433/EEC, except animals without clinical signs of disease slaughtered in the context of a disease eradication campaign, shall be tested for BSE. 2.2.
All bovine animals over 30 months of age: - subject to normal slaughter for human consumption, or - slaughtered in the context of a disease eradication campaign in accordance with Annex I, Chapter VI, point 28(c), to Directive 64/433/EEC, but showing no clinical signs of disease, shall be tested for BSE. 2.3.
By way of derogation from point 2.2, and with regard to bovine animals born, reared and slaughtered on its territory, Sweden may decide to examine only a random sample.
All bovine animals over 24 months of age which have died or been killed but which were not: - killed for destruction pursuant to Commission Regulation (EC) No 716/96(2), - killed in the framework of an epidemic, such as foot-and-mouth disease, - slaughtered for human consumption, shall be tested for BSE. 3.2.
The derogation shall not cover more than 10 % of the bovine population in the Member State. 4.
Monitoring in animals purchased for destruction pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 716/96 4.1.
A random sample comprising at least 10000 animals annually of animals not covered by points 4.1 or 4.2 shall be tested for BSE. 5.
All parts of the body of an animal tested for BSE including the hide shall be retained under official control until a negative result to the rapid test has been obtained, unless they are destroyed in accordance with Annex V, point 3 or 4. 6.4.
All parts of the body of an animal found positive to the rapid test including the hide shall be destroyed in accordance with Annex V, point 3 or 4, apart from material to be retained in conjunction with the records provided for in Chapter B, section III. 6.5.
General Monitoring in ovine and caprine animals shall be carried out in accordance with the laboratory methods laid down in Annex X, Chapter C, point 3.2(b). 2.
Multiple sampling in the same flock shall be avoided, where possible. %gt%TABLE%gt% A Member State may test a number of animals less than that indicated in the table if the most recent official slaughter statistics indicate that this number is equivalent to 25 % of cull ewes slaughtered annually in the Member State. 3.
The derogation shall not cover more than 10 % of the ovine and caprine population in the Member State. %gt%TABLE%gt% 4.
Monitoring in infected flocks From 1 October 2003, animals over 12 months or which have a permanent incisor erupted through the gum, which are killed in accordance with the provisions of Annex VII, point 2(b)(i) or (ii) or point 2(c), shall be tested based on the selection of a simple random sample, in accordance with the sample size indicated in the table %gt%TABLE%gt% 5.
Monitoring in other animals In addition to the monitoring programmes set out in points 2, 3 and 4, Member States may on a voluntary basis carry out monitoring in other animals, in particular: - animals used for dairy production, - animals originating from countries with indigenous TSEs, - animals which have consumed potentially contaminated feedingstuffs, - animals born or derived from TSE infected dams, - animals from flocks infected with TSE. 6.
All parts of the body of a tested animal including the hide shall be retained under official control until a negative result to the rapid test has been obtained, unless they are destroyed in accordance with Annex V, point 3 or 4. 6.4.
All parts of the body of an animal found positive to the rapid test including the hide shall be destroyed in accordance with Annex V, point 3 or 4, apart from material to be retained in conjunction with the records provided for in Chapter B, Section III. 7.
In addition to the animals genotyped under the provisions of point 7.1, the prion protein genotype of a random subsample of the ovine animals tested under the provisions of Chapter A, Section II, point 2 shall be determined.
This subsample shall represent at least one per cent of the total sample for each Member State, and shall not be less than 100 animals per Member State.
The estimated size of each subpopulation referred to in Chapter A, Section I, points 3 and 4. 5.
The number of bovine animals tested within each subpopulation referred to in Chapter A, Section I, point 2 to 5, the method for sample selection and the outcome of the tests. 6.
The competent authority shall keep, for seven years, records of: - the number and types of animals placed under movement restrictions as referred to in Article 12(1), - the number and outcome of clinical and epidemiological investigations as referred to in Article 12(1), - the number and outcome of laboratory examinations as referred to in Article 12(2), - the number, identity and origin of animals sampled in the framework of the monitoring programmes as referred to in Chapter A and, where possible, age, breed and anamnestic information, - the prion protein genotype of positive TSE cases in sheep. 2.
Member States benefiting from this derogation shall, in addition to the requirements laid down in Annex III, Chapter A, section I, ensure that one of the approved rapid tests listed in Annex X, Chapter C, point 4, is applied to all bovine animals over 30 months of age which: (i) have died on the farm or in transport, but which have not been slaughtered for human consumption, with the exception of those dead animals in remote areas with a low animal density situated in Member States where the occurrence of BSE is unlikely; (ii) were subject to normal slaughter for human consumption.
Head meat of bovine animals above 12 months of age shall be harvested at slaughterhouses, in accordance with a control system, recognised by the competent authority, to ensure the prevention of possible contamination of head meat with central nervous system tissue.
The system shall include at least the following provisions: - harvesting shall take place in a dedicated area, physically separated from the other parts of the slaughterline, - where the heads are removed from the conveyor or hooks before harvesting the head meat, the frontal shot hole and foramen magnum shall be sealed with an impermeable and durable stopper.
Where the brainstem is sampled for laboratory testing for BSE, the foramen magnum shall be sealed immediately after that sampling, - head meat shall not be harvested from heads where the eyes are damaged or lost immediately prior to, or after slaughter, or which are otherwise damaged in a way which might result in contamination of the head with central nervous tissue, - head meat shall not be harvested from heads which have not been properly sealed in accordance with the second indent, - without prejudice to general rules on hygiene, specific working instructions shall be in place to prevent contamination of the head meat during the harvesting, in particular in the case when the seal referred to in the second indent is lost or the eyes damaged during the activity, - a sampling plan using an appropriate laboratory test to detect central nervous system tissue shall be in place to verify that the measures to reduce contamination are properly implemented. 8.
The provisions of point 7 and 8 shall not apply to the harvesting of the tongue in accordance with point 6 nor to the harvesting of cheek meat in the slaughterhouse if performed without removing the bovine head from the conveyor or hooks. 10.
By way of derogation from point 5 and 7, Member States may decide to allow: (a) removal of spinal cord of ovine and caprine animals in cutting plants specifically authorised for this purpose; (b) removal of vertebral column from carcases or parts of carcases in butcher shops specifically authorised, monitored and registered for this purpose; (c) harvesting of head meat from bovine in cutting plants specifically authorised for this purpose in accordance with the following provisions: bovine heads intended for transport to cutting plants specifically authorised for the harvesting of head meat, shall comply with the following provisions: - the heads shall be suspended on a rack during the storing period and the transport from the slaughterhouse to the specifically authorised cutting plant, - the frontal shot hole and the foramen magnum shall be properly sealed with an impermeable and durable stopper before being moved from the conveyor or hooks to the racks.
