Directive 2005/60/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 October 2005 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering and terrorist financing (Text with EEA relevance) Directive 2005/60/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 October 2005 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering and terrorist financing (Text with EEA relevance) THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular Article 47(2), first and third sentences, and Article 95 thereof, Having regard to the proposal from the Commission, Having regard to the opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee [1], Having regard to the opinion of the European Central Bank [2], Acting in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 251 of the Treaty [3], Whereas: (1) Massive flows of dirty money can damage the stability and reputation of the financial sector and threaten the single market, and terrorism shakes the very foundations of our society.
In order to ensure the respect of the rights laid down in the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the Treaty on European Union, in the case of auditors, external accountants and tax advisors, who, in some Member States, may defend or represent a client in the context of judicial proceedings or ascertain a client's legal position, the information they obtain in the performance of those tasks should not be subject to the reporting obligations in accordance with this Directive. (22) It should be recognised that the risk of money laundering and terrorist financing is not the same in every case.
In line with a risk-based approach, the principle should be introduced into Community legislation that simplified customer due diligence is allowed in appropriate cases. (23) The derogation concerning the identification of beneficial owners of pooled accounts held by notaries or other independent legal professionals should be without prejudice to the obligations that those notaries or other independent legal professionals have pursuant to this Directive.
The responsibility for complying with this Directive should remain with the institution or person covered hereby. (29) Suspicious transactions should be reported to the financial intelligence unit (FIU), which serves as a national centre for receiving, analysing and disseminating to the competent authorities suspicious transaction reports and other information regarding potential money laundering or terrorist financing.
Member States should be aware of this problem and should do whatever they can to protect employees from such threats or hostile action. (33) Disclosure of information as referred to in Article 28 should be in accordance with the rules on transfer of personal data to third countries as laid down in Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 October 1995 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data [6].
Moreover, Article 28 cannot interfere with national data protection and professional secrecy legislation. (34) Persons who merely convert paper documents into electronic data and are acting under a contract with a credit institution or a financial institution do not fall within the scope of this Directive, nor does any natural or legal person that provides credit or financial institutions solely with a message or other support systems for transmitting funds or with clearing and settlement systems. (35) Money laundering and terrorist financing are international problems and the effort to combat them should be global.
Where Community credit and financial institutions have branches and subsidiaries located in third countries where the legislation in this area is deficient, they should, in order to avoid the application of very different standards within an institution or group of institutions, apply the Community standard or notify the competent authorities of the home Member State if this application is impossible. (36) It is important that credit and financial institutions should be able to respond rapidly to requests for information on whether they maintain business relationships with named persons.
Since legal persons are often involved in complex money laundering or terrorist financing operations, sanctions should also be adjusted in line with the activity carried on by legal persons. (42) Natural persons exercising any of the activities referred to in Article 2(1)(3)(a) and (b) within the structure of a legal person, but on an independent basis, should be independently responsible for compliance with the provisions of this Directive, with the exception of Article 35. (43) Clarification of the technical aspects of the rules laid down in this Directive may be necessary to ensure an effective and sufficiently consistent implementation of this Directive, taking into account the different financial instruments, professions and risks in the different Member States and the technical developments in the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing.
This Directive shall apply to: (1) credit institutions; (2) financial institutions; (3) the following legal or natural persons acting in the exercise of their professional activities: (a) auditors, external accountants and tax advisors; (b) notaries and other independent legal professionals, when they participate, whether by acting on behalf of and for their client in any financial or real estate transaction, or by assisting in the planning or execution of transactions for their client concerning the: (i) buying and selling of real property or business entities; (ii) managing of client money, securities or other assets; (iii) opening or management of bank, savings or securities accounts; (iv) organisation of contributions necessary for the creation, operation or management of companies; (v) creation, operation or management of trusts, companies or similar structures; (c) trust or company service providers not already covered under points (a) or (b); (d) real estate agents; (e) other natural or legal persons trading in goods, only to the extent that payments are made in cash in an amount of EUR 15000 or more, whether the transaction is executed in a single operation or in several operations which appear to be linked; (f) casinos. 2.
The beneficial owner shall at least include: (a) in the case of corporate entities: (i) the natural person(s) who ultimately owns or controls a legal entity through direct or indirect ownership or control over a sufficient percentage of the shares or voting rights in that legal entity, including through bearer share holdings, other than a company listed on a regulated market that is subject to disclosure requirements consistent with Community legislation or subject to equivalent international standards; a percentage of 25 % plus one share shall be deemed sufficient to meet this criterion; (ii) the natural person(s) who otherwise exercises control over the management of a legal entity: (b) in the case of legal entities, such as foundations, and legal arrangements, such as trusts, which administer and distribute funds: (i) where the future beneficiaries have already been determined, the natural person(s) who is the beneficiary of 25 % or more of the property of a legal arrangement or entity; (ii) where the individuals that benefit from the legal arrangement or entity have yet to be determined, the class of persons in whose main interest the legal arrangement or entity is set up or operates; (iii) the natural person(s) who exercises control over 25 % or more of the property of a legal arrangement or entity; (7) "trust and company service providers" means any natural or legal person which by way of business provides any of the following services to third parties: (a) forming companies or other legal persons; (b) acting as or arranging for another person to act as a director or secretary of a company, a partner of a partnership, or a similar position in relation to other legal persons; (c) providing a registered office, business address, correspondence or administrative address and other related services for a company, a partnership or any other legal person or arrangement; (d) acting as or arranging for another person to act as a trustee of an express trust or a similar legal arrangement; (e) acting as or arranging for another person to act as a nominee shareholder for another person other than a company listed on a regulated market that is subject to disclosure requirements in conformity with Community legislation or subject to equivalent international standards; (8) "politically exposed persons" means natural persons who are or have been entrusted with prominent public functions and immediate family members, or persons known to be close associates, of such persons; (9) "business relationship" means a business, professional or commercial relationship which is connected with the professional activities of the institutions and persons covered by this Directive and which is expected, at the time when the contact is established, to have an element of duration; (10) "shell bank" means a credit institution, or an institution engaged in equivalent activities, incorporated in a jurisdiction in which it has no physical presence, involving meaningful mind and management, and which is unaffiliated with a regulated financial group.
Article 5 The Member States may adopt or retain in force stricter provisions in the field covered by this Directive to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing.
Article 7 The institutions and persons covered by this Directive shall apply customer due diligence measures in the following cases: (a) when establishing a business relationship; (b) when carrying out occasional transactions amounting to EUR 15000 or more, whether the transaction is carried out in a single operation or in several operations which appear to be linked; (c) when there is a suspicion of money laundering or terrorist financing, regardless of any derogation, exemption or threshold; (d) when there are doubts about the veracity or adequacy of previously obtained customer identification data.
Member States shall require that, where the institution or person concerned is unable to comply with points (a), (b) and (c) of Article 8(1), it may not carry out a transaction through a bank account, establish a business relationship or carry out the transaction, or shall terminate the business relationship, and shall consider making a report to the financial intelligence unit (FIU) in accordance with Article 22 in relation to the customer.
Member States shall require that all casino customers be identified and their identity verified if they purchase or exchange gambling chips with a value of EUR 2000 or more. 2.
SECTION 2 Simplified customer due diligence Article 11 1.
By way of derogation from Articles 7(a), (b) and (d), 8 and 9(1), the institutions and persons covered by this Directive shall not be subject to the requirements provided for in those Articles where the customer is a credit or financial institution covered by this Directive, or a credit or financial institution situated in a third country which imposes requirements equivalent to those laid down in this Directive and supervised for compliance with those requirements. 2.
By way of derogation from Articles 7(a), (b) and (d), 8 and 9(1) Member States may allow the institutions and persons covered by this Directive not to apply customer due diligence in respect of: (a) listed companies whose securities are admitted to trading on a regulated market within the meaning of Directive 2004/39/EC in one or more Member States and listed companies from third countries which are subject to disclosure requirements consistent with Community legislation; (b) beneficial owners of pooled accounts held by notaries and other independent legal professionals from the Member States, or from third countries provided that they are subject to requirements to combat money laundering or terrorist financing consistent with international standards and are supervised for compliance with those requirements and provided that the information on the identity of the beneficial owner is available, on request, to the institutions that act as depository institutions for the pooled accounts; (c) domestic public authorities, or in respect of any other customer representing a low risk of money laundering or terrorist financing which meets the technical criteria established in accordance with Article 40(1)(b). 3.
The Member States shall inform each other and the Commission of cases where they consider that a third country meets the conditions laid down in paragraphs 1 or 2 or in other situations which meet the technical criteria established in accordance with Article 40(1)(b). 5.
Article 12 Where the Commission adopts a decision pursuant to Article 40(4), the Member States shall prohibit the institutions and persons covered by this Directive from applying simplified due diligence to credit and financial institutions or listed companies from the third country concerned or other entities following from situations which meet the technical criteria established in accordance with Article 40(1)(b).
SECTION 3 Enhanced customer due diligence Article 13 1.
Member States shall require the institutions and persons covered by this Directive to apply, on a risk-sensitive basis, enhanced customer due diligence measures, in addition to the measures referred to in Articles 7, 8 and 9(6), in situations which by their nature can present a higher risk of money laundering or terrorist financing, and at least in the situations set out in paragraphs 2, 3, 4 and in other situations representing a high risk of money laundering or terrorist financing which meet the technical criteria established in accordance with Article 40(1)(c). 2.
In respect of transactions or business relationships with politically exposed persons residing in another Member State or in a third country, Member States shall require those institutions and persons covered by this Directive to: (a) have appropriate risk-based procedures to determine whether the customer is a politically exposed person; (b) have senior management approval for establishing business relationships with such customers; (c) take adequate measures to establish the source of wealth and source of funds that are involved in the business relationship or transaction; (d) conduct enhanced ongoing monitoring of the business relationship. 5.
SECTION 4 Performance by third parties Article 14 Member States may permit the institutions and persons covered by this Directive to rely on third parties to meet the requirements laid down in Article 8(1)(a) to (c).
Where a Member State permits credit and financial institutions referred to in Article 2(1)(1) or (2) situated in its territory to be relied on as a third party domestically, that Member State shall in any case permit institutions and persons referred to in Article 2(1) situated in its territory to recognise and accept, in accordance with the provisions laid down in Article 14, the outcome of the customer due diligence requirements laid down in Article 8(1)(a) to (c), carried out in accordance with this Directive by an institution referred to in Article 2(1)(1) or (2) in another Member State, with the exception of currency exchange offices and money transmission or remittance offices, and meeting the requirements laid down in Articles 16 and 18, even if the documents or data on which these requirements have been based are different to those required in the Member State to which the customer is being referred. 2.
Where a Member State permits currency exchange offices and money transmission or remittance offices referred to in Article 3(2)(a) situated in its territory to be relied on as a third party domestically, that Member State shall in any case permit them to recognise and accept, in accordance with Article 14, the outcome of the customer due diligence requirements laid down in Article 8(1)(a) to (c), carried out in accordance with this Directive by the same category of institution in another Member State and meeting the requirements laid down in Articles 16 and 18, even if the documents or data on which these requirements have been based are different to those required in the Member State to which the customer is being referred. 3.
Where a Member State permits persons referred to in Article 2(1)(3)(a) to (c) situated in its territory to be relied on as a third party domestically, that Member State shall in any case permit them to recognise and accept, in accordance with Article 14, the outcome of the customer due diligence requirements laid down in Article 8(1)(a) to (c), carried out in accordance with this Directive by a person referred to in Article 2(1)(3)(a) to (c) in another Member State and meeting the requirements laid down in Articles 16 and 18, even if the documents or data on which these requirements have been based are different to those required in the Member State to which the customer is being referred.
For the purposes of this Section, "third parties" shall mean institutions and persons who are listed in Article 2, or equivalent institutions and persons situated in a third country, who meet the following requirements: (a) they are subject to mandatory professional registration, recognised by law; (b) they apply customer due diligence requirements and record keeping requirements as laid down or equivalent to those laid down in this Directive and their compliance with the requirements of this Directive is supervised in accordance with Section 2 of Chapter V, or they are situated in a third country which imposes equivalent requirements to those laid down in this Directive. 2.
Article 17 Where the Commission adopts a decision pursuant to Article 40(4), Member States shall prohibit the institutions and persons covered by this Directive from relying on third parties from the third country concerned to meet the requirements laid down in Article 8(1)(a) to (c).
Third parties shall make information requested in accordance with the requirements laid down in Article 8(1)(a) to (c) immediately available to the institution or person covered by this Directive to which the customer is being referred. 2.
Article 19 This Section shall not apply to outsourcing or agency relationships where, on the basis of a contractual arrangement, the outsourcing service provider or agent is to be regarded as part of the institution or person covered by this Directive.
Member States shall ensure that if, in the course of inspections carried out in the institutions and persons covered by this Directive by the competent authorities referred to in Article 37, or in any other way, those authorities discover facts that could be related to money laundering or terrorist financing, they shall promptly inform the FIU. 2.
Article 26 The disclosure in good faith as foreseen in Articles 22(1) and 23 by an institution or person covered by this Directive or by an employee or director of such an institution or person of the information referred to in Articles 22 and 23 shall not constitute a breach of any restriction on disclosure of information imposed by contract or by any legislative, regulatory or administrative provision, and shall not involve the institution or person or its directors or employees in liability of any kind.
Article 27 Member States shall take all appropriate measures in order to protect employees of the institutions or persons covered by this Directive who report suspicions of money laundering or terrorist financing either internally or to the FIU from being exposed to threats or hostile action.
SECTION 2 Prohibition of disclosure Article 28 1.
The institutions and persons covered by this Directive and their directors and employees shall not disclose to the customer concerned or to other third persons the fact that information has been transmitted in accordance with Articles 22 and 23 or that a money laundering or terrorist financing investigation is being or may be carried out. 2.
The prohibition laid down in paragraph 1 shall not include disclosure to the competent authorities referred to in Article 37, including the self-regulatory bodies, or disclosure for law enforcement purposes. 3.
The prohibition laid down in paragraph 1 shall not prevent disclosure between institutions from Member States, or from third countries provided that they meet the conditions laid down in Article 11(1), belonging to the same group as defined by Article 2(12) of Directive 2002/87/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2002 on the supplementary supervision of credit institutions, insurance undertakings and investment firms in a financial conglomerate [17]. 4.
The prohibition laid down in paragraph 1 shall not prevent disclosure between persons referred to in Article 2(1)(3)(a) and (b) from Member States, or from third countries which impose requirements equivalent to those laid down in this Directive, who perform their professional activities, whether as employees or not, within the same legal person or a network.
For institutions or persons referred to in Article 2(1)(1), (2) and (3)(a) and (b) in cases related to the same customer and the same transaction involving two or more institutions or persons, the prohibition laid down in paragraph 1 shall not prevent disclosure between the relevant institutions or persons provided that they are situated in a Member State, or in a third country which imposes requirements equivalent to those laid down in this Directive, and that they are from the same professional category and are subject to equivalent obligations as regards professional secrecy and personal data protection.
Where the persons referred to in Article 2(1)(3)(a) and (b) seek to dissuade a client from engaging in illegal activity, this shall not constitute a disclosure within the meaning of the paragraph 1. 7.
The Member States shall inform each other and the Commission of cases where they consider that a third country meets the conditions laid down in paragraphs 3, 4 or 5.
Article 29 Where the Commission adopts a decision pursuant to Article 40(4), the Member States shall prohibit the disclosure between institutions and persons covered by this Directive and institutions and persons from the third country concerned.
CHAPTER IV RECORD KEEPING AND STATISTICAL DATA Article 30 Member States shall require the institutions and persons covered by this Directive to keep the following documents and information for use in any investigation into, or analysis of, possible money laundering or terrorist financing by the FIU or by other competent authorities in accordance with national law: (a) in the case of the customer due diligence, a copy or the references of the evidence required, for a period of at least five years after the business relationship with their customer has ended; (b) in the case of business relationships and transactions, the supporting evidence and records, consisting of the original documents or copies admissible in court proceedings under the applicable national legislation for a period of at least five years following the carrying-out of the transactions or the end of the business relationship.
Article 32 Member States shall require that their credit and financial institutions have systems in place that enable them to respond fully and rapidly to enquiries from the FIU, or from other authorities, in accordance with their national law, as to whether they maintain or have maintained during the previous five years a business relationship with specified natural or legal persons and on the nature of that relationship.
CHAPTER V ENFORCEMENT MEASURES SECTION 1 Internal procedures, training and feedback Article 34 1.
SECTION 2 Supervision Article 36 1.
In the case of the natural and legal persons referred to in Article 2(1)(3)(a) to (e), Member States may allow the functions referred to in paragraph 1 to be performed on a risk-sensitive basis. 5.
SECTION 3 Cooperation Article 38 The Commission shall lend such assistance as may be needed to facilitate coordination, including the exchange of information between FIUs within the Community.
SECTION 4 Penalties Article 39 1.
In addition to the cases already provided for in paragraph 3, Member States shall ensure that legal persons can be held liable where the lack of supervision or control by a person referred to in paragraph 3 has made possible the commission of the infringements referred to in paragraph 1 for the benefit of a legal person by a person under its authority.
CHAPTER VI IMPLEMENTING MEASURES Article 40 1.
In order to take account of technical developments in the fight against money laundering or terrorist financing and to ensure uniform implementation of this Directive, the Commission may, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 41(2), adopt the following implementing measures: (a) clarification of the technical aspects of the definitions in Article 3(2)(a) and (d), (6), (7), (8), (9) and (10); (b) establishment of technical criteria for assessing whether situations represent a low risk of money laundering or terrorist financing as referred to in Article 11(2) and (5); (c) establishment of technical criteria for assessing whether situations represent a high risk of money laundering or terrorist financing as referred to in Article 13; (d) establishment of technical criteria for assessing whether, in accordance with Article 2(2), it is justified not to apply this Directive to certain legal or natural persons carrying out a financial activity on an occasional or very limited basis. 2.
In any event, the Commission shall adopt the first implementing measures to give effect to paragraphs 1(b) and 1(d) by 15 June 2006. 3.
Where the Commission finds that a third country does not meet the conditions laid down in Article 11(1) or (2), Article 28(3), (4) or (5), or in the measures established in accordance with paragraph 1(b) of this Article or in Article 16(1)(b), or that the legislation of that third country does not permit application of the measures required under the first subparagraph of Article 31(1), it shall adopt a decision so stating in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 41(2).
Where reference is made to this paragraph, Articles 5 and 7 of Decision 1999/468/EC shall apply, having regard to the provisions of Article 8 thereof and provided that the implementing measures adopted in accordance with this procedure do not modify the essential provisions of this Directive.
On a proposal from the Commission, the European Parliament and the Council may renew the provisions concerned in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 251 of the Treaty and, to that end, shall review them prior to the expiry of the four-year period.
CHAPTER VII FINAL PROVISIONS Article 42 By 15 December 2009, and at least at three-yearly intervals thereafter, the Commission shall draw up a report on the implementation of this Directive and submit it to the European Parliament and the Council.
Article 43 By 15 December 2010, the Commission shall present a report to the European Parliament and to the Council on the threshold percentages in Article 3(6), paying particular attention to the possible expediency and consequences of a reduction of the percentage in points (a)(i), (b)(i) and (b)(iii) of Article 3(6) from 25 % to 20 %.
Article 44 Directive 91/308/EEC is hereby repealed.
Member States shall bring into force the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with this Directive by 15 December 2007.
Article 46 This Directive shall enter into force on the 20th day after its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Article 47 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Strasbourg, 26 October 2005.
Borrell Fontelles For the Council The President D.
Alexander [1] Opinion delivered on 11 May 2005 (not yet published in the Official Journal). [2] OJ C 40, 17.2.2005, p. 9. [3] Opinion of the European Parliament of 26 May 2005 (not yet published in the Official Journal) and Council Decision of 19 September 2005. [4] OJ L 166, 28.6.1991, p. 77.
Directive as amended by Directive 2001/97/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 344, 28.12.2001, p. 76). [5] OJ L 182, 5.7.2001, p. 1. [6] OJ L 281, 23.11.1995, p. 31.
Directive as amended by Regulation (EC) No 1882/2003 (OJ L 284, 31.10.2003, p. 1). [7] OJ L 271, 24.10.2000, p. 4. [8] OJ L 184, 17.7.1999, p. 23. [9] OJ L 164, 22.6.2002, p. 3. [10] OJ L 126, 26.5.2000, p. 1.
Directive as last amended by Directive 2005/1/EC (OJ L 79, 24.3.2005, p. 9). [11] OJ L 345, 19.12.2002, p. 1.
Directive as last amended by Directive 2005/1/EC. [12] OJ L 145, 30.4.2004, p. 1. [13] OJ L 9, 15.1.2003, p. 3. [14] OJ L 351, 29.12.1998, p. 1. [15] OJ C 316, 27.11.1995, p. 49. [16] OJ L 275, 27.10.2000, p. 39. [17] OJ L 35, 11.2.2003, p. 1. -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX CORRELATION TABLE This Directive | Directive 91/308/EEC | Article 1(1) | Article 2 | Article 1(2) | Article 1(C) | Article 1(2)(a) | Article 1(C) first point | Article 1(2)(b) | Article 1(C) second point | Article 1(2)(c) | Article 1(C) third point | Article 1(2)(d) | Article 1(C) fourth point | Article 1(3) | Article 1(C), third paragraph | Article 1(4) | | Article 1(5) | Article 1(C), second paragraph | Article 2(1)(1) | Article 2a(1) | Article 2(1)(2) | Article 2a(2) | Article 2(1)(3)(a), (b) and (d) to (f) | Article 2a(3) to (7) | Article 2(1)(3)(c) | | Article 2(2) | | Article 3(1) | Article 1(A) | Article 3(2)(a) | Article 1(B)(1) | Article 3(2)(b) | Article 1(B)(2) | Article 3(2)(c) | Article 1(B)(3) | Article 3(2)(d) | Article 1(B)(4) | Article 3(2)(e) | | Article 3(2)(f) | Article 1(B), second paragraph | Article 3(3) | Article 1(D) | Article 3(4) | Article 1(E), first paragraph | Article 3(5) | Article 1(E), second paragraph | Article 3(5)(a) | | Article 3(5)(b) | Article 1(E), first indent | Article 3(5)(c) | Article 1(E), second indent | Article 3(5)(d) | Article 1(E), third indent | Article 3(5)(e) | Article 1(E), fourth indent | Article 3(5)(f) | Article 1(E), fifth indent, and third paragraph | Article 3(6) | | Article 3(7) | | Article 3(8) | | Article 3(9) | | Article 3(10) | | Article 4 | Article 12 | Article 5 | Article 15 | Article 6 | | Article 7(a) | Article 3(1) | Article 7(b) | Article 3(2) | Article 7(c) | Article 3(8) | Article 7(d) | Article 3(7) | Article 8(1)(a) | Article 3(1) | Article 8(1)(b) to (d) | | Article 8(2) | | Article 9(1) | Article 3(1) | Article 9(2) to (6) | | Article 10 | Article 3(5) and (6) | Article 11(1) | Article 3(9) | Article 11(2) | | Article 11(3) and (4) | | Article 11(5)(a) | Article 3(3) | Article 11(5)(b) | Article 3(4) | Article 11(5)(c) | Article 3(4) | Article 11(5)(d) | | Article 12 | | Article 13(1) and (2) | Article 3(10) and (11) | Article 13(3) to (5) | | Article 13(6) | Article 5 | Article 14 | | Article 15 | | Article 16 | | Article 17 | | Article 18 | | Article 19 | | Article 20 | Article 5 | Article 21 | | Article 22 | Article 6(1) and (2) | Article 23 | Article 6(3) | Article 24 | Article 7 | Article 25 | Article 10 | Article 26 | Article 9 | Article 27 | | Article 28(1) | Article 8(1) | Article 28(2) to (7) | | Article 29 | | Article 30(a) | Article 4, first indent | Article 30(b) | Article 4, second indent | Article 31 | | Article 32 | | Article 33 | | Article 34(1) | Article 11(1) (a) | Article 34(2) | | Article 35(1), first paragraph | Article 11(1)(b), first sentence | Article 35(1), second paragraph | Article 11(1)(b) second sentence | Article 35(1), third paragraph | Article 11(1), second paragraph | Article 35(2) | | Article 35(3) | | Article 36 | | Article 37 | | Article 38 | | Article 39(1) | Article 14 | Article 39(2) to (4) | | Article 40 | | Article 41 | | Article 42 | Article 17 | Article 43 | | Article 44 | | Article 45 | Article 16 | Article 46 | Article 16 | --------------------------------------------------
