This Regulation lays down the procedure for the establishment of rules in respect of the flavouring substances referred to in the third, fourth, fifth and sixth indents of Article 5 (1) of Directive 88/388/EEC.
A list of flavouring substances the use of which is authorized to the exclusion of all others shall be drawn up in accordance with Articles 3, 4 and 5.
Such notification shall contain any useful information regarding: (a) the nature of such flavouring substances, such as the chemical formula, the CAS number, the Einecs number, the Iupac nomenclature, their origin and, if necessary, the conditions for their use; (b) the foodstuffs in or on which such flavouring substances are chiefly used; (c) compliance at the level of each Member State with the criteria provided for in Article 4 of Directive 88/388/EEC, and the reasons for those criteria. 2.
On the basis of the notification provided for in paragraph 1, and following Commission scrutiny of the notification, in the light of subparagraph (c), flavouring substances the legal use of which in one Member State must be recognized by the other Member States shall be entered in a register which shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 7 within a year of the end of the notification period provided for in paragraph 1.
If the Commission considers that amendments to the register of flavouring substances are necessary to ensure protection of human health, it shall initiate the procedure provided for in Article 7 with a view to adopting such amendments.
Article 9 Member States may not prohibit, restrict or obstruct the marketing or the use in or on foodstuffs of flavouring substances if the latter comply with the provisions of this Regulation.
Article 10 The provisions intended to align existing Community acts on this Regulation shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 7.
Article 11 This Regulation shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Done at Luxembourg, 28 October 1996.
The use of flavouring substances may be authorized provided that: - they present no risk to the health of the consumer, in accordance with the scientific assessment provided for in Article 7 of Directive 88/388/EEC, - their use does not mislead the consumer. 2.
