Enlargement therefore presents an unprecedented opportunity for improved growth and competitiveness in the Community as a whole which should be reflected in these strategic guidelines. (4) The 2005 Spring European Council confirmed that the Community should mobilise all appropriate national and Community resources — including the cohesion policy — in pursuit of the objectives of the renewed Lisbon agenda, which consists of integrated guidelines, including the broad economic policy guidelines and the employment guidelines adopted by the Council. (5) In meeting the objectives set out in the Treaty, and in particular that of fostering real economic convergence, the actions supported with the limited resources available to cohesion policy should be concentrated on promoting sustainable growth, competitiveness and employment having regard to the renewed Lisbon agenda. (6) The purpose of these strategic guidelines should therefore be to foster an increase in the strategic content of cohesion policy with a view to strengthening synergies with, and helping to deliver, the objectives of the renewed Lisbon agenda. (7) The Spring European Council of 2005 concluded that greater ownership of the objectives of the new Lisbon agenda on the ground was necessary, involving regional and local actors and social partners, in particular, in areas where greater proximity is essential, such as in innovation, the knowledge economy and the new information and communication technologies, employment, human capital, entrepreneurship, support for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and access to risk capital financing.
These strategic guidelines should give priority, for all Member States and regions, to those areas of investment that help to deliver the national reform programmes taking account of national and regional needs and situations: investment in innovation, the knowledge economy, the new information and communication technologies, employment, human capital, entrepreneurship, support for SMEs or access to risk capital financing. (10) The strategic guidelines should take account of the role of cohesion policy in delivering other Community policies consistent with the renewed Lisbon agenda. (11) In the case of regions and Member States eligible for support under the Convergence objective, the aim should be to stimulate growth potential, so as to achieve and maintain high growth rates, including addressing the deficits in basic infrastructure networks and strengthening institutional and administrative capacity. (12) The territorial dimension of cohesion policy is important and all areas of the Community should have the possibility to contribute to growth and jobs.
Accordingly the strategic guidelines should take account of investment needs in both urban and rural areas in view of their respective roles in regional development and in order to promote balanced development, sustainable communities and social inclusion. (13) The European territorial cooperation objective has an important role to play in ensuring the balanced and sustainable development of the territory of the Community.
The strategic guidelines should contribute to the success of the European territorial objective which depends on shared development strategies of the territories concerned at national, regional, and local level and on networking especially to ensure the transfer of ideas to mainstream national and regional cohesion programmes. (14) With a view to promoting sustainable development, the strategic guidelines should reflect the need to take environmental protection and improvement into account in preparing national strategies. (15) Equality between men and women and the prevention of discrimination on the basis of gender, race or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation are basic principles of cohesion policy and should be incorporated into all levels of the strategic approach to cohesion. (16) Good governance is essential at all levels for the successful implementation of cohesion policy.
These strategic guidelines should take account of the role of a broadly drawn partnership in the elaboration and implementation of development strategies which is necessary in order to ensure that complex cohesion strategies can be managed successfully and of the need for quality and efficiency in the public sector. (17) These strategic guidelines represent a single indicative framework which Member States and regions are invited to use when developing national and regional programmes, in particular with a view to assessing their contribution to the Community's objectives in terms of cohesion, growth and jobs.
Article 2 This Decision is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Luxembourg, 6 October 2006.
Rajamäki [1] OJ L 210, 31.7.2006, p. 25. -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX Community strategic guidelines on economic, social and territorial cohesion, 2007-2013 1.
INTRODUCTION: GUIDELINES FOR COHESION POLICY, 2007-2013 In accordance with the integrated guidelines for growth and jobs of the renewed Lisbon agenda, the programmes supported by cohesion policy should seek to target resources on the following three priorities [1]: - improving the attractiveness of Member States, regions and cities by improving accessibility, ensuring adequate quality and level of services, and preserving the environment, - encouraging innovation, entrepreneurship and the growth of the knowledge economy by research and innovation capacities, including new information and communication technologies, and - creating more and better jobs by attracting more people into employment or entrepreneurial activity, improving adaptability of workers and enterprises and increasing investment in human capital.
This may be done through specific actions to promote equality, as well as by taking careful account of how other projects and the management of the Funds may affect men and women.
These needs are generally highest in the Convergence regions and in countries covered by the Cohesion Fund.
The level of regional economic development and the existence of large infrastructure endowments should thus be taken into account.
Fourth, investments in transport infrastructure should be accompanied by proper traffic management, with particular attention to safety, in accordance with national and Community standards.
Based on the abovementioned principles, the guidelines for action are as follows: - Member States and regions eligible for funding under the Convergence objective [5] or the Cohesion Fund, should give appropriate priority to those of the 30 projects of European interest where they fall within their territory.
Other TEN-T projects, and strategic transport links, should be supported where this presents a strong case in terms of their contribution to growth and competitiveness. - Complementary investment in secondary connections will also be important in the context of an integrated regional transport and communications strategy covering urban and rural areas, in order to ensure that the regions benefit from the opportunities created by the major networks. - Support for rail infrastructure should seek to ensure greater access.
Accordingly, the recommended guidelines for action are the following: - Addressing the significant needs for investment in infrastructure, particularly in the Convergence regions and especially in the new Member States, to comply with environmental legislation in the fields of water, waste, air, nature and species protection and bio-diversity. - Ensuring that attractive conditions exist for businesses and their highly skilled staff.
These investments mostly concern the Convergence regions. 1.2.
RTD expenditure as a percentage of GDP has been increasing, but only marginally and, at 1,9 % of GDP, remains well short of the Lisbon target of 3 % [6].
This is particularly important in traditional sectors, particularly those exposed to global competition, which need additional efforts in order to remain competitive, as well as in SMEs which often represent the highest source of employment at the regional level.
Such strategies should make specific provision for experimentation, with a view to increasing the capacity of policy interventions and intermediary organisations to stimulate regional and local actors, in particular SMEs, to innovate. 1.2.1.
Public support for RTD is justified because market failures exist and can also be justified by the public character of certain RTD investments.
In addition, issues of ownership of research results and the need to achieve critical mass in certain research sectors provide justification for government support for RTD.
The guidelines for action in the field of RTD can be identified as follows: - Strengthening cooperation among businesses and between businesses and public research/tertiary education institutions, for example, by supporting the creation of regional and trans-regional clusters of excellence. - Supporting RTD activities in SMEs and technology transfer (enabling SMEs to access RTD services in publicly funded research institutions). - Support for regional cross-border and transnational initiatives aimed at strengthening research collaboration and capacity building in priority areas of Community research policy. - Strengthening R%amp%D capacity building, including ICT, research infrastructure and human capital in areas with significant growth potential.
Programmes — particularly for regions eligible under the Convergence objective — can contribute to developing RTD infrastructure (including regional high-speed data networks between and within research establishments), education infrastructure, equipment and instrumentation in both publicly funded research institutions and businesses, provided that these investments are directly linked to regional economic development objectives.
Support for Seventh Framework Programme priorities should seek to develop the full potential of emerging and existing centres of excellence and to step up investment in human capital, particularly by training researchers at national level and by creating conditions to attract researchers trained abroad. 1.2.2.
Investments in innovation represent an overarching priority for cohesion policy under both the Convergence and Regional competitiveness and employment programmes.
Actions should seek to build on existing poles of activity in order to exploit regional potential for RTD and to foster networking and technological cooperation within and between regions.
The guidelines for action under this heading are the following: - Making regional RTD innovation and education supply more efficient and accessible to firms, in particular SMEs, for example by establishing poles of excellence, bringing together high technology SMEs around research and technological institutions, or by developing and creating regional clusters around large companies. - Providing business support services to enable enterprises, and in particular SMEs, to increase competitiveness and to internationalise, in particular by seizing the opportunities created by the internal market.
The efficient and effective delivery of public services — in particular e-government and e-health — has a significant potential for economic growth and for enabling new services.
The identification of regional needs should take into account existing Community initiatives in favour of ICTs, in particular the i2010 — a European Information Society for growth and employment [7].
The guidelines for action are as follow: - Ensuring uptake of ICTs by firms and households and promoting development through balanced support for the supply and demand of ICT products and both public and private services, as well as through increased investment in human capital.
These actions should increase productivity, promote an open and competitive digital economy and an inclusive society (for example, improving accessibility for disabled and elderly people), and thus boost growth and jobs. - Ensuring availability of ICT infrastructure and related services where the market fails to provide it at an affordable cost and to an adequate level to support the required services, especially in remote and rural areas and in new Member States. 1.2.4.
In terms of human capital development, the Employment Guidelines highlight three priorities for action for Member States' policies: - attract and retain more people in employment and modernise social protection systems, - improve adaptability of workers and enterprises and the flexibility of the labour markets, - increase investment in human capital through better education and skills.
Cohesion policy should focus on addressing the specific challenges of the European Employment Strategy in each Member State, by supporting actions under the convergence and the regional competitiveness and employment objectives, taking into account the scope of activities defined in the legislative framework.
In the framework of the Employment Guidelines, Guidelines for action under this heading are the following: - Implement employment policies aimed at achieving full employment, improving quality and productivity at work, and strengthening social and territorial cohesion. - Promote a life-cycle approach to work. - Ensure inclusive labour markets, enhance work attractiveness, and make work pay for job-seekers, including disadvantaged people, and the inactive. - Improve matching of labour market needs.
Attention should be given in particular to: - the development of lifelong learning strategies and systems including mechanisms such as regional and sector funds, with the aim of increasing investment by enterprises and participation of workers in training, - implementation of such strategies by contributing to the funding of schemes and training activities.
Increase investment in human capital through better education and skills Europe needs to invest more in human capital.
In the next programming period, the investment in human capital should be reinforced by focusing on the Lisbon objectives in line with the integrated guidelines for growth and employment.
Particular attention should be given to addressing the needs of disadvantaged groups, - supporting the design and introduction of reforms in education and training systems using, where relevant, common European references and principles, in particular to raise the labour-market relevance of education and training, - strengthening the links between universities, research and technological centres and enterprises, in particular through networking activities and joint actions.
Financial resources should be used for the implementation of reforms, which should address the following specific priorities: - ensuring an adequate supply of attractive, accessible and high quality education and training provision at all levels, including the improvement of staff competences and qualification, promoting flexible learning pathways and new options starting as early as the school and preschool stage, actions to achieve a significant decline in early school-leaving and higher completion rates of upper secondary education and improved access to pre-school and school education, - supporting the modernisation of tertiary education and the development of human potential in research and innovation, through post-graduate studies, further training of researchers, and attracting more young people into scientific and technical studies, - promoting the quality and attractiveness of vocational education and training, including apprenticeships and entrepreneurship education, - ensuring, where appropriate, greater mobility at regional, national or transnational level, and promoting frameworks and systems to support the transparency and recognition of qualifications and the validation of non-formal and informal learning, - investment in education and training infrastructure including ICTs, where such investments are necessary for the implementation of reform and/or where they can significantly contribute to increasing the quality and effectiveness of the education and training system. 1.3.4.
For Cohesion countries and regions under the Convergence objective, increasing productivity and quality at work in the public sector — especially in the economic, employment, social, educational, health, environmental and judicial areas — is essential to pursue and accelerate reforms, to raise productivity and growth in the wider economy and to promote social and territorial cohesion and sustainable development.
Therefore, Cohesion countries and regions falling under the Convergence Objective are called upon to build up public administrations and public services at national, regional and local level.
Actions in this field should take into account the specific situation of each Member State.
Member States should ensure that the need to increase efficiency in health care systems is addressed through investment in ICT, knowledge and innovation.
Guidelines for action under this heading are the following: - Preventing health risks to help raise productivity levels by means of health information campaigns and by ensuring a transfer of knowledge and technology and ensure that health services have the necessary skills, products and equipment to prevent risks and minimise their potential damage. - Filling the gaps in health infrastructure and promoting efficient provision of services where the economic development of the less prosperous Member States and regions is being affected.
Taking on board the territorial dimension will help to develop sustainable communities and to prevent uneven regional development from reducing overall growth potential.
The development of high-quality partnerships is also essential, bringing aboard actors at all levels, national, regional, urban, rural and local.
The contribution of cities to growth and jobs As outlined in the Commission Communication on cohesion policy and cities, over 60 % of the population in the European Union lives in urban areas of over 50000 inhabitants [12].
First, the key partners in the cities and local authorities have an important role to play in achieving these objectives.
This is particularly important where proximity matters, for example, in order to respond to the challenges of a mostly local nature such as social exclusion or lack of access to key services.
Support the economic diversification of rural areas, fisheries areas and areas with natural handicaps Cohesion policy can also play a key role in support of the economic regeneration of rural areas, complementing the actions supported by the new rural development fund (European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development — EAFRD) [14].
In this context, Member States should ensure synergy and consistency between actions to be financed by the ERDF, Cohesion Fund, ESF, European Fisheries Fund (EFF) and EAFRD on a given territory and in a given field of activity.
This includes efforts to support the provision of a minimum level of access to services of general economic interest in order to attract firms and qualified personnel and to limit out-migration.
Ensuring universal access to all services, particularly in very sparsely populated areas, may be achieved by investing in development poles in rural areas (for example in small and medium-sized towns) and by developing economic clusters based on local assets combined with the use of new information technologies.
As a consequence, closer cooperation across EU regions should help speed up economic development and the achievement of higher growth.
In terms of implementation, Member States may wish to examine the possibility of creating a European Grouping of Territorial Cooperation to take on the role of managing authority for certain cooperation programmes. 2.4.
