In its conclusion expressed on 2 December 1999, the SCF was of the opinion that, subject to certain exceptions, flavourings considered acceptable at the current estimated intake by JECFA comply with the general use criteria and could be included in the list of authorised substances without undergoing a separate SCF evaluation for the time being.
Following the initial exposure assessment which should be based on the total amounts added to foods more refined usage data might become necessary for the evaluation of certain substances. (10) In order to enable the completion of the evaluation programme within five years, deadlines for the submission of information have to be set as well as minimal numbers of substances to be evaluated within a given time period. (11) Where the necessary information is not provided, so that the evaluation of a flavouring substance cannot be undertaken, that substance may not be included in the definitive list of flavouring substances referred to in Article 5 of Regulation (EC) No 2232/96. (12) The register contains about 2800 substances.
Following the opinion of the SCF, it can be concluded that about 800 substances need not be re-evaluated for the time being.
The person responsible for placing on the market a substance contained in the register which is not covered by Article 2(1) has to provide the following information within 12 months of the adoption of this Regulation in order to enable the evaluation of a substance: - purity and chemical specification of the substance as outlined in Annex II, - natural occurrence in foodstuffs, - total amount of the substance which is added to foods in the Community, - normal and maximum use levels of the substance in food categories as outlined in Annex III, if available, - all relevant toxicological and metabolic studies on the substance or on closely related substances.
This information has to be transmitted in a standardised format, as outlined in Annex IV. 2.
The SCOOP task shall be organised so as to meet the requirement of paragraph 1. 3.
Without prejudice to paragraph 1, those groups of substances as laid down in Annex I, for which the information as referred to in Article 3(1) is most complete, shall receive priority for evaluation. 3.
Article 6 This Regulation shall enter into force on the seventh day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Done at Brussels, 18 July 2000.
For the Commission David Byrne Member of the Commission (1) OJ L 299, 23.11.1996, p. 1. (2) OJ L 84, 27.3.1999, p. 1. (3) OJ L 253, 29.9.1994, p. 29. (4) OJ L 249, 22.9.1999, p. 32. (5) Annex 6 to the minutes of the 98th meeting of the Scientific Committee on Food, 21 and 22 September 1995. (6) Flavouring substances and natural sources of flavourings, Volume I, Chemically-defined flavouring substances, Fourth Edition.
ANNEX I CHEMICAL GROUPS FOR FLAVOURING SUBSTANCES(1) 1.
Esters/acetals may contain aliphatic acyclic or alicylic acids or alcohol component. 8.
Esters may contain aliphatic acyclic or alicyclic acid component. 9.
Furanones and tetrahydrofurfuryl derivatives. 14.
Propenylhydroxybenzenes. 18.
Allylhydroxybenzenes. 19.
Pyrazine derivatives. 25.
Anthranilate derivatives. 28.
Thiazoles, thiophene, thiazoline and thienyl derivatives. 30.
Miscellaneous substances. 31.
ANNEX II CHEMICAL SPECIFICATIONS TO BE PROVIDED FOR FLAVOURING SUBSTANCES - chemical name as used in the register of Decision 1999/217/EC, - IUPAC name, if different from chemical name as used in the register, - synonyms, - CAS-, E-, EINECS-, FL-, CoE- and FEMA numbers, if available, - chemical and structural formula, molecular weight, - physical form/odour, - solubility, - solubility in ethanol, - identity test (infra red-, nuclear magnetic resonance- and/or mass spectrum), - minimum assay value, - impurities, - physical parameters related to purity (justification is required if information is not provided): - boiling point (for liquids), - melting point (for solids), - refractive index (for liquids), - specific gravity (for liquids), - stability and decomposition products, if relevant, - interaction with food components, if relevant, - any other relevant information.
Dairy products, excluding products of category 2. 2.
Confectionery. 6.
Bakery wares. 8.
Meat and meat products, including poultry and game. 9.
Fish and fish products, including molluscs, crustaceans and echinoderms (MCE). 10.
Salts, spices, soups, sauces, salads, protein products, etc. 13.
The copies have to be sent to the coordinating institute of SCOOP task 1.1: Danish Veterinary and Food Administration Institute of Food Safety and Toxicology Flavis Mørkhøi Bygade 19 DK - 2860 Søborg
