Article 3 LIFE-nature 1.
The following shall be eligible for LIFE-nature: (a) nature conservation projects which further the specific objective set out in paragraph 1 and contribute to maintaining or restoring natural habitats and/or species populations to a favourable conservation status within the meaning of Directive 92/43/EEC; (b) accompanying measures which further the specific objective set out in paragraph 1 and are required: (i) to prepare projects involving partners in several Member States (%quot%starter%quot% measure); (ii) to exchange experiences between projects (%quot%co-op%quot% measure); (iii) to monitor and evaluate projects and disseminate their results, including the results of projects decided upon during the preceding phases of LIFE (%quot%assist%quot% measure). 3.
The maximum rate shall be: (a) 50 % for nature conservation projects and 100 % for accompanying measures; (b) by way of exception, the rate of 50 % provided for in (a) shall be a maximum of 75 % for projects concerning priority natural habitats or priority species within the meaning of Directive 92/43/EEC or the species of birds considered as priority for funding under LIFE-nature by the committee set up pursuant to Article 16 of Directive 79/409/EEC. 4.
Proposals for projects to be financed pursuant to paragraph 2(a) shall be forwarded to the Commission by the Member States.
The Commission shall fix annually the date of forwarding of proposals and shall decide on the proposals in accordance with paragraph 7. 5.
For the purposes of this paragraph, the committee shall be that referred to in Article 20 of Directive 92/43/EEC.
Article 4 LIFE-environment 1.
The rate of Community financial support shall be a maximum of 30 % of the eligible cost of the project for projects generating substantial net revenue.
The rate of Community financial support to all other applicants shall be a maximum of 50 % of the eligible cost of the project.
The rate of Community financial support for the accompanying measures shall be a maximum of 100 % of their cost. 4.
Proposals for projects to be financed pursuant to paragraph 2(a) shall be forwarded to the Commission by the Member States.
The Commission shall fix annually the date of forwarding of proposals and shall decide on the proposals in accordance with paragraph 10. 6.
Projects considered for financial support shall be subject to the procedure set out in Article 11. 11.
Article 5 LIFE-third countries 1.
The rate of Community financial support shall be a maximum of 70 % of the cost of the projects referred to in paragraph 2(a) and a maximum of 100 % of the cost of the accompanying measures referred to in paragraph 2(b). 4.
The Commission shall fix annually the date of forwarding of proposals and shall decide on the proposals in accordance with paragraph 7. 5.
Without prejudice to this procedure, the committee set up by Article 21 of Directive 92/43/EEC shall be consulted before a decision is taken on projects concerning nature protection.
The Commission shall adopt a decision concerning the list of projects selected. 8.
Article 6 Participation of accession candidate countries 1.
Projects considered for LIFE financial support shall be subject either to the procedure set out in Article 3(7) or to that set out in Article 11 according to the type of project proposed. 6.
Where conditions and provisions equivalent to those referred to in paragraph 1 have been established for the other accession candidate countries, LIFE will be open for participation by those countries in accordance with paragraphs 2 to 6.
The annual breakdown of appropriations for the co-financing of the instrument by the countries referred to in paragraphs 1 and 7 is published in the general budget of the European Union, Section III, Part B, Annex IV.
Article 7 Consistency between financial instruments 1.
Article 8 Duration of the third phase and budgetary resources 1.
The third phase shall start on 1 January 2000 and shall end on 31 December 2004.
The financial framework for the implementation of the third phase for the period 2000 to 2004 is hereby set at EUR 640 million. 2.
The amount of resources to be allocated to each of the areas of activity shall be as follows: (a) 47 % for actions undertaken under Article 3; (b) 47 % for actions undertaken under Article 4; (c) 6 % for actions undertaken under Article 5.
The accompanying measures shall be limited to 5 % of the available appropriations.
Article 9 Monitoring of projects 1.
Article 10 Protection of Community financial interests 1.
Article 11 Committee 1.
Article 12 Evaluation of the third phase and continuation of LIFE 1.
Not later than 30 September 2003, the Commission shall submit to the European Parliament and the Council: (a) a report on the implementation of this Regulation, its contribution to the development of Community environmental policy, and the use made of the appropriations as well as, where appropriate, proposals for any adjustments to be made with a view to continuing the action beyond the third phase; (b) if appropriate, a proposal concerning a fourth phase of LIFE. 2.
The European Parliament and the Council, acting in accordance with the Treaty, shall decide no later than 1 July 2004 on the implementation of the fourth phase as from 1 January 2005.
Article 13 Repeal of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1973/92 1.
Article 14 Entry into force This Regulation shall enter into force on the third day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Done at Brussels, 17 July 2000.
Fontaine For the Council The President J.
