Article 3 The definition of the product group and the specific ecological criteria for the product group shall be valid for a period of three years from the first day of the month following the adoption of the criteria.
Article 4 For administrative purposes the product group code number assigned to this product group shall be %quot%15%quot%.
Article 5 This Decision is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 28 May 1999.
For the Commission Ritt BJERREGAARD Member of the Commission (1) OJ L 99, 11.4.1992, p. 1. (2) OJ 196, 16.8.1967, p.1. (3) OJ L 305, 16.11.1998, p. 1. (4) OJ L 187, 16.7.1988, p. 14. (5) OJ L 265, 18.10.1996, p. 15.
Ecological criteria on ingredients Key parameters The following parameters are considered: - total chemicals, - critical dilution volume, toxicity (CDVtox), - phosphates (as STPP)(1), - non-biodegradable organics (aerobic) (NBDO aerobic), - non-biodegradable organics (anaerobic) (NBDO anaerobic), Appendix II presents the definition of the parameters used in the calculations.
Wfactor = weighting factor HEXCI. = hurdle. 2.2.
The cardboard packaging shall be 80 % recycled material and the plastic packaging shall be labelled according to ISO 1043. 3.
PERFORMANCE CRITERIA The product shall have a satisfactory washing performance at the recommended dosage according to the standard test developed by IKW.
The test procedure on purity must ensure that no production organism is detected in a 20 ml standard test sample of the final enzyme product. 4.2.
Testing laboratories The testing shall be performed at the expense of the applicant by laboratories that meet the general requirements laid out in the EN 45001 standards or any equivalent systems. 5.
For more information about the European Union eco-label, contact the European Commission: Internet: http://europa.eu.int/ecolabel By post: European Commission DG XI E4 Rue de la Loi 200 , B - 1049 Bruxelles / Westraat 200 , B - 1049 Brussel. 5.2.
Appendix II DEFINITIONS RELATED TO THE ECOLOGICAL CRITERIA 1.
Critical dilution volume toxicity (CDVtox) The CDVtox is calculated for each ingredient i in the formulation according to the respective data for loading factors (LF) and long-term effects (LTE) in the DID-list in l/wash: %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% The CDVtox of the product is the sum of all ingredients CDVtox in l/wash. 3.
Phosphates (as STPP) Weight per wash of all inorganic phosphates expressed as STPP, in g/wash. 4.
Non-biodegradable organics (aerobic) Weight per wash of all ingredients which are aerobically non-biodegradable organics (see DID-list) in g/wash. 5.
Appendix IV TABLE OF ABBREVIATIONS APEO: alkyl phenol ethoxylates BCF: bio-concentration factors in fish CDVtox: critical dilution volume (toxicity) CEN: European Standards Organisation CF: correction factor DIN: Deutsches Institut f체r Normung EOs: ethoxy groups EC50: effect concentration (concentration at which 50 % of the organisms show an effect in defined time) ECETOC: European Centre for Ecotoxicology and Toxicology of Chemicals EDTA: ethylene diamine tetra acetate EN: European Standard Hexcl: exclusion hurdle IUPAC: International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry ISO: International Standards Organisation LF: loading factor LC50: lethal concentration (concentration at which 50 % of test organisms show lethal effect in defined time) LTE: long-term effect NOEC: no observed effect concentration (in a chronic test) Pow: partition coefficient octanol/water QSARs: quantitative structure activity relationships RB: ready biodegradability STPP: sodium tripolyphosphate THOD: theoretical oxygen demand UF: uncertainty factor WF: weighting factor
