Council Regulation (EC) No 1728/1999 of 29 July 1999 imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty on imports of synthetic fibres of polyesters originating in Taiwan and terminating the proceeding in respect of imports of synthetic fibres of polyesters originating in the Republic of Korea COUNCIL REGULATION (EC) No 1728/1999 of 29 July 1999 imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty on imports of synthetic fibres of polyesters originating in Taiwan and terminating the proceeding in respect of imports of synthetic fibres of polyesters originating in the Republic of Korea THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, Having regard to Council Regulation (EC) No 384/96 of 22 December 1995 on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the European Community(1), and in particular Article 9 and Article 11 thereof, Having regard to the proposal submitted by the Commission after consulting the Advisory Committee, Whereas: A.
Subsequently in September 1990, following a request lodged by the %quot%Association of Importers of Synthetic Polyester Fibres%quot% as well as a request from exporters in some of the countries concerned, the Commission initiated a review of Regulation (EEC) No 3946/88, in accordance with Article 14 of Regulation (EEC) No 2423/88(3).
The anti-dumping measures for the remaining abovementioned countries lapsed on 23 October 1997.
Finally, the Council, by Regulation (EC) No 1490/96(6), imposed definitive anti-dumping measures on imports of PSF originating in Belarus.
In conclusion, the anti-dumping measures presently in force concern imports originating in Taiwan, Korea and Belarus. 2.
Request for review (4) Following the publication of two notices of impending expiry of the anti-dumping measures in force on imports of PSF originating, inter alia, in Taiwan(7) and, inter alia, in Korea(8), the Commission received, in July and August 1997 respectively, requests to review the measures concerning these two countries pursuant to Article 11(2) of Council Regulation (EC) No 384/96 (hereinafter referred to as the %quot%Basic Regulation%quot%) in respect of the two abovementioned countries.
Verifications were carried out at the premises of the following companies: (a) Exporting producers: - TAIWAN - Nan Ya Plastics Corporation, Taipei, - Shingkong Synthetic Fibres Corporation, Taipei, - Tuntex Distinct Corporation, Taipei, - Far Eastern Textile Corporation, Taipei; - KOREA - Saehan Industries Inc. (formerly Cheil Synthetics Textiles Inc.), Seoul, - Daehan Synthetic Fiber Corporation, Ltd, Seoul, - Kohap Ltd, Seoul, - Samyang Corporation, Seoul, - Sunkyong Industries Ltd, Seoul; (b) Community producers: - Hoechst AG, Frankfurt/Main, Germany, - Tergal, Gauchy, France, - Montefibre Spa, Milano, Italy, - Catalana de Polimers, Barcelona, Spain. (9) The investigation of dumping covered the period from l October 1996 to 30 September 1997 (hereinafter referred to as the %quot%investigation period%quot% or %quot%IP%quot%).
Description of the product concerned (12) The product concerned by this investigation is the same as in the previous investigations, namely synthetic staple fibres of polyester, not carded, combed or otherwise processed for spinning; it is commonly referred to as polyester synthetic fibres (PSF) and currently classifiable within CN code 5503 20 00.
Around 60 % of the Community consumption of PSF is used for spinning, that is to say manufacturing filaments for the production of textiles, after mixing or not with other fibres such as cotton or wool.
Like product (14) The investigation showed that the various types of PSF manufactured and sold on the Taiwanese and Korean market, despite minor differences in length, thickness or quality, were alike to the PSF types exported from these countries to the Community, in the meaning of Article 1(4) of the Basic Regulation. (15) Taiwanese exporting producers alleged that their exports consisted mainly of non-woven or specialty fiber which are not widely produced by the Community industry and clearly differ in all aspects from the PSF produced by the Community industry, which allegedly consists mostly of regular spinning and hollow fibres.
Consequently, the PSF types exported from Taiwan and Korea to the Community were alike to the PSF types produced by the Community producers and sold within the Community market in the meaning of Article 1(4) of the Basic Regulation.
DUMPING AND LIKELIHOOD OF RECURRENCE OF DUMPING 1.
Normal value (a) Taiwan (19) For the reasons given in recital 17, normal values have been established only for two Taiwanese exporting producers, which accounted for virtually the totality of the Taiwanese exports of PSF to the Community during the investigation period.
In the case of one exporting producer normal value per product type was entirely based on the prices paid in the ordinary course of trade by independent customers in the domestic market with regard to sales made in representative quantities, in accordance with Article 2(1) and 2(2) of the Basic Regulation.
Export price (21) For exporting producers from both countries export prices were established on the basis of the prices actually paid by independent buyers in the Community in accordance with Article 2(8) of the Basic Regulation. 4.
These exporting producers alleged that all Community customers benefited from the same discount, though not indicated in the invoice, by reason of their purchase quantities in excess to the quantity above which a discount was granted.
The comparison showed the existence of dumping for the two Taiwanese and for four of the Korean exporting producers investigated, the dumping margin being equal to the amount by which normal value, so established, exceeded the price for export to the Community. (24) The weighted average dumping margin, as a percentage of the CIF Community-frontier import price, is significant for the two Taiwanese exporting producers, Far Eastern Textile Corporation and Nan Ya Plastics Corporation, covering virtually the total of the Taiwanese exports to the Community.
However, a recovery of the NT$ was observed in the rest of 1998 so that the depreciation recorded at the beginning of 1999 was limited to 14 %.
Indeed, in this investigation, the weighted average dumping margin established, expressed as a percentage of the cif Community frontier import price, was 1,8 %.
The investigation showed that the share of the total Community production held by the seven co-operating Community producers supporting the review request, during the investigation period amounted to more than 65 % of total Community production of the product concerned.
Consumption in the Community (28) Community consumption was based on the combined volume of sales into the Community market of the Community industry, sales of the remaining non-cooperating Community producers and Eurostat information on volume of total imports.
The volume of sales of the Community producers not co-operating in the proceeding was determined, on the basis of available information, at around 30 % of the total sales of all Community producers.
On the above basis, Community consumption of PSF followed overall a slight decreasing tendency over the period considered: it went from 540000 tonnes in 1994 to 490000 tonnes in 1995 and, after a temporary fall back to 460000tonnes in 1996, to 520000 tonnes during the investigation period, which represents an overall decrease of 3 % over the period considered. 2.
The value of imports from Taiwan increased from ECU 9,9 million in 1994 to ECU 29,3 million during the investigation period, representing an increase of 196 %.
This is to be compared with the undercutting found in the previous investigation which ranged from 22 % to 30 % for Taiwan.
The exporting producers' undercutting level, on an average basis, remained important, despite a certain upward effect on import prices of the antidumping measures in force. 3.
Economic situation of the Community industry (a) Preliminary remarks (34) The examination of the situation of the Community industry covers the period from 1994 to the end of the investigation period.
Production levels decreased at a higher rate than Community consumption; which decreased by 3 % during the period considered. (36) As regards capacity, it should be noted that the production facilities for PSF are also used in the production of other products not concerned by the present proceedings, e.g.
The market share of the Communit industry decreased from 61 % in 1994 to 60 % in 1995, 59 % in 1996 and 56 % in the investigation period.
It should be noted that prices of PSF have been influenced for all operators on the market by the evolution of prices of the basic raw materials like pure terephthalic acid (PTA), dimethylterephthalate (DMT) and glycol, representing about 60 to 70 % of the cost of production of the finished product.
Subsequently, the financial situation improved, especially during 1995 (profit of 7,5 %).
This resulted partially from the fact that all operators on the Community market were able to raise their prices after an increase in the raw material costs (see recital 40), and the Community industry could improve its financial situation due to a reduction in overhead costs.
During the investigation period investment amounted to ECU 14 million.
Furthermore, the investigation has shown that the Community industry has suffered significant price pressure and substantial price undercutting has been established for imports originating in Taiwan. (45) As far as the financial situation of the Community industry is concerned, it should be noted that profits were made in 1995 after the increase of the prices of the raw material and the initiation of an anti-dumping investigation against imports from Belarus.
LIKELIHOOD OF RECURRENCE OF INJURY (47) Further to the analysis of the existence of dumping as well as the likelihood of recurrence of dumping with respect to imports originating in Taiwan and the analysis of the situation of the Community industry, it was examined whether there was a likelihood of recurrence of injury, should the measures applicable to the imports from Taiwan be removed. 1.
Analysis of the situation of the exporting country producers concerned (48) It has been found that from 1995 to the investigation period total production capacity in Taiwan has increased by 21,3 % i.e. 135000 tonnes.
Taiwanese exporting producers foresee to further increase their production capacity and capacity utilization to a level above 90 % in 1998, leading to a further increase of production of 30000 tonnes. (49) It was also found that the volume of imports originating in Taiwan increased substantially between 1994 and the investigation period (+242 %), despite the anti-dumping measures in force.
It should be noted that, between 1995 and 1996, the volume of these imports into the Community almost doubled and between 1994 and the investigation period more than tripled.
The corresponding market share increased significantly between 1994 and the investigation period from 1,5 % to 5,3 %.
Furthermore, it has been established that during the investigation period these imports were made at prices significantly undercutting (167 %) those of the Community industry. 2.
Impact of imports from Taiwan in the absence of anti-dumping measures (50) Concerning the recurrence of injurious dumping, it was considered that the prices obtained in the absence of anti-dumping measures would lead to a price undercutting of 24,5 %.
It has been estimated that in the first scenario the Community industry would further lose 2,5 % market share, accompanied by a drop in profitability of 9,5 % in the short term.
If the Community industry followed the downward trend on prices, profitability would drop from 5,6 % to 2,7 %.
Consequently, in each scenario the profitability of the Community industry would suffer from dumped imports originating in Taiwan causing injury. 3.
COMMUNITY INTEREST 1.
No evidence was provided on the incidence of the measures in force, in their cost of production.
A definitive anti-dumping duty is hereby imposed on imports of synthetic fibres of polyesters, not carded, combed or otherwise processed for spinning, currently classifiable within CN code 5503 20 00 and originating in Taiwan. 2.
Article 3 Unless otherwise specified, the provisions in force concerning customs duties shall apply.
Article 4 This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following is publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Done at Brussels, 29 July 1999.
HASSI (1) OJ L 56, 6.3.1996, p. 1.
