Upon opposition by the proprietor of a non-registered trade mark or of another sign used in the course of trade of more than mere local significance, the trade mark applied for shall not be registered where and to the extent that, pursuant to the Community legislation or the law of the Member State governing that sign:%quot%; 4.
However, where the debtor is an insurance undertaking or a credit institution as defined in Directives 2001/17/EC(4) and 2001/24/EC(5), respectively, the only insolvency proceedings in which a Community trademark may be involved are those opened in the Member State where that undertaking or institution has been authorised. 2.
In the case of joint proprietorship of a Community trade mark, paragraph 1 shall apply to the share of the joint proprietor. 3.
An amount shall be paid by the Office to each central industrial property office for each search report provided by that office in accordance with paragraph 3.
The goods or services in the divisional application shall not overlap with the goods or services which remain in the original application or those which are included in other divisional applications. 2.
The goods or services in the divisional registration shall not overlap with the goods or services which remain in the original registration or those which are included in other divisional registrations. 2.
A record of the Office's decision on the application for revocation of rights or for a declaration of invalidity shall be entered in the Register once it has become final.%quot%; 19.
Cancellation or revocation as referred to in paragraph 1 shall be determined, ex officio or at the request of one of the parties to the proceedings, by the department which made the entry or took the decision.
The request shall not be deemed to have been filed until the fee for continuation of the proceedings has been paid. 2.
Article 88 shall be amended as follows: (a) the first sentence of paragraph 3 shall be replaced by the following:%quot%Natural or legal persons having their domicile or principal place of business or a real and effective industrial or commercial establishment in the Community may be represented before the Office by an employee.%quot%; (b) the following paragraph shall be added: %quot%4.
In certain specific cases provided for in the Implementing Regulation, the decisions shall be taken by a single member.%quot%; 34.
Further details shall be laid down in the rules of procedure of the Boards referred to in Article 157(3).%quot%; 35.
The President of the Boards of Appeal and the chairmen of the Boards shall be appointed, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 120 for the appointment of the President of the Office, for a term of five years.
Further details shall be laid down in the rules of procedure of the Boards referred to in Article 157(3). 2.
The members of the Boards of Appeal shall be appointed by the Administrative Board for a term of five years.
Points 11 to 14, 21, 23 to 26 and 32 to 36 of Article 1 shall apply from a date which shall be laid down by the Commission and published in the Official Journal of the European Union, when the necessary implementing measures have been adopted. 3.
Point 9 of Article 1 shall apply from 10 March 2008.
Done at Brussels, 19 February 2004.
