That structure is particularly suitable for making efficient and economic use of resources while improving the visibility of the services provided, refocusing effective operational responsibilities and keeping pace with the needs and demands of users. (6) This type of office represents an appropriate tool for achieving a desirable shift to interinstitutional level in this area, in which some other Community institutions have already expressed interest. (7) As an administrative office for the Commission, it is essential that the Office remains clearly attached to a Directorate-General in accordance with the Guidelines adopted by the Commission on 28 May 2002(5).
The Office will operate as from 1 January 2003.
Article 2 Purpose 1.
The Office shall determine, calculate and pay the entitlements and remuneration of the staff employed by the Community institutions, and of external staff, as laid down in Article 3 and on the basis of the Staff Regulations and the Annexes thereto and its General Implementing Provisions. 2.
The Office shall fulfil its purpose in accordance with the administrative rules in force at the Commission. 3.
Article 3 Tasks 1.
The Office may perform additional remunerated services in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 7(8).
Article 4 Location The Office shall be located in Brussels.
CHAPTER II MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE Article 5 Terms of reference The Management Committee shall act under delegation from the Commission, to which it shall be accountable within its terms of reference and under the authority of the member in charge of personnel and administration.
Article 7 Duties 1.
Before 31 January each year, the Management Committee shall adopt the Director's work programme.
Article 8 Internal organisation The Management Committee shall adopt its own rules of procedure.
Article 9 Voting When the Management Committee takes a decision, each member entitled to vote shall have one vote.
CHAPTER III THE DIRECTOR Article 10 Appointment 1.
The Office shall be administered by a Director (grade A1 or A2) appointed by the Commission after the Advisory Committee on Appointments has issued a favourable opinion pursuant to Article 14(1). 2.
Article 11 Powers The Director shall be the appointing authority for the Office and the authority authorised to conclude contracts, in accordance with the rules in force at the Commission, within the limits of the powers conferred on him or her by the Commission.
Article 12 Duties 1.
Before 31 December each year, the Director shall present the Management Committee with his or her work programme for the following year, the content of which must be endorsed by the Committee. 2.
CHAPTER IV STAFF OF THE OFFICE Article 14 Senior and middle management of the Office 1.
Article 15 Procedures 1.
In accordance with Article 4 of the Staff Regulations, vacant posts within the Office shall be notified to the staff of the institutions once the appointing authority decides that a post is to be filled. 3.
In accordance with Article 90 of the Staff Regulations, requests and complaints relating to the exercise of the powers conferred on the Director under Article 11 of this Decision shall be lodged with the Directorate-General for Personnel and Administration.
CHAPTER V FINANCIAL PROVISIONS Article 16 Financial matters 1.
Title V of Part Two of the Financial Regulation shall apply. 2.
CHAPTER VI COORDINATION AND REVIEW Article 17 Coordination 1.
Done at Brussels, 6 November 2002.
For the Commission Neil Kinnock Vice-President (1) OJ L 308, 8.12.2000, p. 26. (2) OJ L 248, 16.9.2002, p. 1. (3) SEC(1999) 2051, p. 7. (4) COM(2000) 200 final. (5) SEC(2002) 618 final.
