Regulation (EC) No 63/2002 of the European Central Bank of 20 December 2001 concerning statistics on interest rates applied by monetary financial institutions to deposits and loans vis-à-vis households and non-financial corporations (ECB/2001/18) Regulation (EC) No 63/2002 of the European Central Bank of 20 December 2001 concerning statistics on interest rates applied by monetary financial institutions to deposits and loans vis-à-vis households and non-financial corporations (ECB/2001/18) THE GOVERNING COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK, Having regard to Council Regulation (EC) No 2533/98 of 23 November 1998 concerning the collection of statistical information by the European Central Bank(1), and in particular to Article 5(1) and Article 6(4) thereof, Whereas: (1) The European System of Central Banks (ESCB) requires, for the fulfilment of its tasks, the production of statistics on interest rates applied by monetary financial institutions (MFIs) to deposits and loans vis-à-vis households and non-financial corporations, the main purpose of which is to provide the European Central Bank (ECB) with a comprehensive, detailed and harmonised statistical picture of the level of interest rates applied by MFIs and their changes over time.
Article 5.2 of the Statute stipulates that the NCBs shall carry out, to the extent possible, the tasks described in Article 5.1. (4) It may be necessary, and reduce the reporting burden, for NCBs to collect from the actual reporting population the statistical information necessary to fulfil the statistical reporting requirements of the ECB as part of a broader statistical reporting framework which the NCBs establish under their own responsibility in accordance with Community or national law or established practice and which serves other statistical purposes, provided the fulfilment of the statistical requirements of the ECB is not jeopardised.
In specific cases, the ECB may rely on statistical information collected for such purposes to fulfil its requirements. (5) Article 3 of Regulation (EC) No 2533/98 requires the ECB to specify the actual reporting population within the limits of the reference reporting population and to minimise the reporting burden involved.
The Governing Council shall review the compliance with Annex I to this Regulation after its initial implementation and then at least every two years.
Article 3 Statistical reporting obligations 1.
For the purposes of the regular production of MFI interest rate statistics, the actual reporting population shall report monthly statistical information relating to new business and outstanding amounts to the NCB of the participating Member State in which the reporting agent is resident.
The required statistical information is specified in Annex II to this Regulation. 2.
The NCBs shall ensure that these reporting arrangements provide the statistical information required and allow accurate checking of compliance with the minimum standards for transmission, accuracy, conceptual compliance and revisions as referred to in Article 3(3). 3.
The required statistical information shall be reported in accordance with the minimum standards for transmission, accuracy, conceptual compliance and revisions as set out in Annex III to this Regulation. 4.
Article 4 Verification and compulsory collection The right to verify or to collect compulsorily the information which reporting agents shall provide in compliance with the statistical reporting requirements set out in this Regulation shall be exercised by the NCBs, without prejudice to the right of the ECB to exercise these rights itself.
Article 5 First reporting First reporting under this Regulation shall begin with monthly statistical information for January 2003.
Article 6 Transitional provisions Transitional provisions for application of parts of this Regulation are laid down in Annex IV to this Regulation.
Article 7 Final provision This Regulation shall enter into force on 31 January 2002.
Done at Frankfurt am Main, 20 December 2001.
Duisenberg (1) OJ L 318, 27.11.1998, p. 8. (2) OJ L 310, 30.11.1996, p. 1. (3) OJ L 333, 17.12.2001, p. 1.
Each NCB shall select its reporting agents from among the credit institutions and other institutions in the potential reporting population that are resident in the same participating Member State as the NCB. 3.
In order to select the reporting agents, NCBs shall either apply a census or follow a sampling approach in line with the criteria established in the following paragraphs. 4.
In the case of a census, the NCB shall ask each resident credit institution and other institution in the potential reporting population to report monetary financial institution (MFI) interest rate statistics.
The variables that shall be collected by means of the census are the interest rates and the amounts of new business and the interest rates on outstanding amounts. 5.
The variables that shall be estimated by means of the sample are the interest rates and the amounts of new business and the interest rates on outstanding amounts.
For the purpose of MFI interest rate statistics a sample shall be considered representative if all the characteristics that are relevant for MFI interest rate statistics and inherent in the potential reporting population are also reflected in the sample.
Minimum national sample size 10.
The minimum national sample size shall be such that the maximum random error(2) for interest rates on new business on average over all instrument categories does not exceed 10 basis points at a confidence level of 90 %(3).
After defining the national strata in accordance with paragraphs 6 and 7 and the national sample size n in accordance with paragraph 10, NCBs that choose the sampling approach shall draw the sample by selecting the actual reporting agents from each stratum.
Information about the size of each credit institution and other institution in the potential reporting population is available at national level from the MFI balance sheet statistics collected in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 2423/2001 (ECB/2001/13).
each credit institution and other institution in the potential reporting population shall only be selected once. 20.
PART 2 Maintenance of the sample of the actual reporting population VI.
NCBs that choose the sampling approach shall ensure that the sample remains representative over time. 22.
NCBs shall therefore check the representativity of their sample at least once a year.
NCBs shall therefore draw a sample nb from the population of all joiners Nb.
The complementary selection of joining institutions nb among the total number of joiners Nb shall be referred to as incremental sampling over time. 25.
If the institutions are leaving the potential reporting population and these institutions are not in the sample, the sample becomes too large relative to the size of the potential reporting population (case 2).
Financial innovation 28.
Annualised agreed rate General principle 1.
The type of rate that reporting agents shall provide for all instrument categories of deposits and loans referring to new business and outstanding amounts is the annualised agreed rate.
Disagio, defined as the difference between the nominal amount of the loan and the amount received by the customer, shall be considered as an interest payment at the start of the contract (time t0) and shall therefore be reflected in the annualised agreed rate. 2.
The only difference between the NDER and the annualised agreed rate shall be the underlying method for annualising interest payments.
The interest payments covered in the annualised agreed rate shall reflect what the reporting agent pays on deposits and receives for loans.
Where the amount paid by one party and received by the other differs, the point of view of the reporting agent shall determine the interest rate covered by monetary financial institution (MFI) interest rate statistics. 5.
In addition to annualised agreed rates, the reporting agents shall provide for new business in respect of consumer credit and loans to households for house purchases the annual percentage rate of charge (APRC) as defined in Article 1(2)(e) of Directive 87/102/EEC, i.e.: - one APRC for new consumer credit (see indicator 30 in Appendix 2), and - one APRC for new loans to households for house purchases (see indicator 31 in Appendix 2)(3). 10.
Reporting agents shall provide MFI interest rate statistics referring to outstanding amounts and to new business.
Interest rates on outstanding amounts 14.
It shall cover all outstanding contracts that have been agreed in all the periods prior to the reporting date. 16.
New business on overnight deposits, deposits redeemable at notice and bank overdrafts 17.
In the case of overnight deposits, deposits redeemable at notice and bank overdrafts as defined in paragraphs 42 to 44, the concept of new business shall be extended to the whole stock.
The interest rates for overnight deposits, deposits redeemable at notice and bank overdrafts shall reflect the weighted average interest rate level applied to the stock on these accounts at the time reference point as defined in paragraph 29.
They shall cover all outstanding contracts that have been agreed in all the periods prior to the reporting date. 19.
The reporting agents shall report weighted average interest rates referring to the credit balances as overnight deposits and weighted average interest rates referring to the debit balances as bank overdrafts.
New business in instrument categories other than overnight deposits, deposits redeemable at notice and bank overdrafts 20.
New agreements shall be: - all financial contracts, terms and conditions that specify for the first time the interest rate of the deposit or loan, and - all new negotiations of existing deposits and loans.
The new business rate shall reflect the weighted average interest rate level applied to the deposits and loans in the relevant instrument category in respect of new agreements made between households or non-financial corporations and the reporting agent during the time reference period as defined in paragraph 32. 23.
The agreement between the household or non-financial corporation and the reporting agent at time t0, which includes the interest rate and the full amount of the loan, shall be captured in MFI interest rate statistics.
Time reference point for MFI interest rates on outstanding amounts 26.
The period covered shall be one month. 27.
In contrast to monthly averages, MFI interest rates on outstanding amounts compiled as end-month observations shall only cover those contracts that are still outstanding at the time of data collection. 28.
In contrast to end-month observations, the MFI interest rates on outstanding amounts compiled as monthly averages shall also include contracts that were outstanding at some time during the month, but are no longer outstanding at the end of the month.
Time reference point for new business on overnight deposits, deposits redeemable at notice and bank overdrafts 29.
The period covered shall be one month. 30.
For overnight deposits, deposits redeemable at notice and bank overdrafts, the average monthly stock shall be derived from daily balances.
In contrast to end-month observations, the MFI interest rates on outstanding amounts compiled as monthly averages shall also include contracts that were outstanding at some time during the month, but are no longer outstanding at the end of the month. 31.
Reporting agents shall not report weighted average interest rates combining (low) overnight deposit rates and (high) bank overdraft rates.
The period covered shall be (the whole of) one month. 33.
General provisions 34.
Reporting agents shall provide MFI interest rate statistics on outstanding amounts for the instrument categories specified in Appendix 1 and MFI interest rate statistics on new business for the instrument categories contained in Appendix 2.
However, since the compilation method and the time reference point for the rates on overnight deposits, deposits redeemable at notice and bank overdrafts shall be the same as for the other indicators on outstanding amounts, indicators 1, 5, 6, 7, 12 and 23 of Appendix 2 are repeated in Appendix 1. 35.
An instrument category shall be inapplicable at national level, if resident credit institutions and other institutions do not at all offer products belonging to this category to households and non-financial corporations resident in the participating Member States.
For each instrument category defined in Appendices 1 and 2, and applied in the banking business of resident credit institutions and other institutions with households and non-financial corporations resident in the participating Member States, the MFI interest rate statistics shall be compiled based on all interest rates applied to all the products that fit this instrument category.
Hence, if an instrument category is only offered by one institution, then this institution shall be represented in the sample.
If an instrument category did not exist in a participating Member State at the time of the initial drawing of the sample, but a new product belonging to this category is being introduced by one institution thereafter, this institution shall be included in the sample at the time of the next representativity check.
If a new product is created within an existing instrument category at national level, the institutions in the sample shall cover it with the next reporting, as all reporting agents are required to report on all their products. 37.
As defined in paragraph 16, bad loans and loans for debt restructuring at rates below market conditions shall not be covered by MFI interest rate statistics.
Breakdown by currency 38.
MFI interest rate statistics shall cover the interest rates applied by the potential reporting population.
Data on deposits and loans in currencies other than the euro shall not be required at the level of all participating Member States.
Indicator 5 in Appendix 1 and indicator 11 in Appendix 2 refer to repos.
Although the remuneration of repos is not in all participating Member States independent of the holding sector, no sector breakdown by households and non-financial corporations shall be required for repos at the level of all participating Member States.
Unless otherwise stated in the following paragraphs, the instrument breakdown for MFI interest rates and the definitions of the types of instruments shall follow the asset and liabilities categories as set out in Part 3 of Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 2423/2001 of the European Central Bank of 22 November 2001 concerning the consolidated balance sheet of the monetary financial institutions sector (ECB/2001/13)(6). 43.
Zero-interest overnight deposits shall therefore be captured by MFI interest rate statistics. 44.
Penalties on overdrafts applied as a component of other charges, for example in the form of special fees, shall not be covered by the annualised agreed rate as defined in paragraph 1, because this type of rate shall only cover the interest rate component of loans. 45.
Loans to non-financial corporations in Appendix 1 referring to outstanding amounts shall follow the definition in Part 3 of Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 2423/2001 (ECB/2001/13) and shall cover bank overdrafts. 46.
Consumer credit in Appendix 1 referring to outstanding amounts shall follow the definition in Part 3 of Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 2423/2001 (ECB/2001/13) and shall cover bank overdrafts. 47.
MFI interest rate statistics shall cover secured and unsecured loans to households for house purchases without differentiation.
Loans to households for house purchases in Appendix 1 referring to outstanding amounts shall follow the definition in Part 3 of Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 2423/2001 (ECB/2001/13) and shall cover bank overdrafts. 48.
Other loans to households in Appendix 1 referring to outstanding amounts shall follow the definition in Part 3 of Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 2423/2001 (ECB/2001/13) and shall cover bank overdrafts. 49.
For MFI interest rates on outstanding amounts, consumer credit, loans to households for house purchases and other loans to households together shall cover all loans granted to households by resident credit institutions and other institutions. 50.
For MFI interest rates on new business, bank overdrafts, loans to households for consumption, for house purchases and for other purposes shall cover all loans granted to households by resident credit institutions and other institutions.
The breakdown by original maturity and period of notice shall follow the definitions as set out in Part 3 of Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 2423/2001 (ECB/2001/13).
A breakdown by original maturity shall be applied to all deposit categories other than repos referring to outstanding amounts and all lending categories referring to outstanding amounts as set out in Appendix 1.
For the purposes of MFI interest rate statistics, the initial period of fixation shall be defined as a predetermined period of time at the start of a contract during which the value of the interest rate cannot change.
The value of the interest rate shall only be considered to be unchangeable if it is defined as an exact level, for example as 10 %, or as a differential to a reference rate at a certain point in time, for example as six-month Euribor plus 2 percentage points at a certain day and time.
If at a start of the contract for a certain period of time a procedure of calculating the lending rate is agreed between the household or non-financial corporation and the reporting agent, for example six-month Euribor plus 2 percentage points for three years, this shall not be considered to be an initial rate fixation, as the value of the interest rate may change during the three years.
The MFI interest rate statistics on new lending business shall only reflect the interest rate that is agreed for the initial period of fixation at the start of a contract or after renegotiation of the loan.
If after this initial period of fixation the interest rate automatically changes to a floating rate, this shall not be reflected in the MFI interest rates on new business but only in those on outstanding amounts. 55.
Statistical information at the level of the reporting agents 59.
The first level of aggregation shall be carried out by the reporting agents as defined in paragraphs 60 to 65.
The data shall be reported to the NCB of the participating Member State in which the reporting agent is resident. 60.
For each of the instrument categories on new business, i.e.
In addition, reporting agents shall provide for each of the indicators 2 to 4, 8 to 11, 13 to 22 and 24 to 29 in Appendix 2 the amount of new business conducted in each instrument category during the month. 65.
Credit institutions and other institutions, which are permitted by an NCB to report MFI interest rate statistics together as a group, shall be considered as one notional reporting agent and provide the data defined in paragraphs 60 to 62 referring to the group as a whole.
In addition, NCBs shall provide for each of the indicators 2 to 4 and 8 to 29 in Appendix 2 the amount of new business conducted at national level in each instrument category during the reference month.
The population total Y for the amount of new business shall then be estimated by means of the following generic formula(8): %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2002010EN.003801.TIF%quot%%gt% with: yi as the amount of new business of institution i, and πi as probability of selecting institution i. 69.
The treatment of the product defined in the following paragraphs 74 to 82 shall be used as a reference for products with similar characteristics. 74.
The annualised agreed rate on new business, which shall be covered at time t0 in MFI interest rate statistics, shall be the geometric average of the factors %quot%1 + interest rate%quot%.
The annualised agreed rate on outstanding amounts that shall be covered from time t0 to t3 is the rate applied by the reporting agent at the time of calculation of the MFI interest rate, i.e.
The interest charged by a reporting agent on this overdraft shall be captured by MFI interest rate statistics. 76.
The treatment of the loan in the new business statistics depends on the type of account the customer chooses for drawing the credit in line with paragraphs 17, 20 and 21. 77.
The annualised agreed rate on outstanding amounts shall always cover the rates applied by the reporting agent at the time of calculation of MFI interest rates.
The annualised agreed rate on outstanding amounts shall always cover the rates applied by the reporting agent at the time of the calculation of MFI interest rates.
Hence, only the guaranteed minimum return of 0 % should be captured.
The annualised agreed rate on outstanding amounts shall always cover the interest rate applied by the reporting agent at the time of the calculation of MFI interest rates.
Only at maturity shall the MFI interest rates on outstanding amounts reflect the annualised interest rate that is paid by the reporting agent. 80.
Deposits with a maturity of over two years as defined in Part 3 of Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 2423/2001 (ECB/2001/13) may contain pension savings accounts.
Hence, only the deposit part that is not invested in securities shall be covered by MFI interest rate statistics.
The annualised agreed rate on outstanding amounts shall be the rate applied by the reporting agent to the deposit part of the pension savings accounts at the time of calculation of the MFI interest rate. 81.
Following Part 3 of Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 2423/2001 (ECB/2001/13), these savings plans shall be classified under deposits with agreed maturity over two years as long as they are used as a deposit.
The government subsidy, which is paid through but not by the credit or other institution, shall be ignored. (1) OJ L 42, 12.2.1987, p. 48. (2) OJ L 101, 1.4.1998, p. 17. (3) NCBs may grant derogation for consumer credit and loans to households for house purchase vis-à-vis non-profit institutions serving households. (4) S. 14 and S. 15 combined, as defined in the European System of Accounts (ESA) 1995, contained in Annex A of the Council Regulation (EC) No 2223/96 of 25 June 1996 on the European system of national and regional accounts in the Community (OJ L 310, 30.11.1996, p. 1). (5) S. 11 as defined in the ESA 1995. (6) OJ L 333, 17.12.2001, p. 1. (7) No expansion factors are required for the weighted average interest rates where it shall be assumed that the estimate from the sample is the estimate for the entire potential reporting population. (8) Known as the Horvitz-Thompson estimator.
In addition, all reporting agents shall provide for indicators 12 and 23 the outstanding amount at the end of the month. %gt%TABLE%gt% (1) Or narrowly defined effective rate (NDER). (2) In a participating Member State where one of the following instrument categories is not applied in the banking business of resident credit institutions and other institutions with households and non-financial corporations resident in the participating Member States, the instrument category shall be ignored. (3) In the following table %quot%up to%quot% shall mean %quot%up to and including%quot%. (4) In a participating Member State where one of the following instrument categories is not applied in the banking business of resident credit institutions and other institutions with households and non-financial corporations resident in the participating Member States, the instrument category shall be ignored. (5) In the following table %quot%up to%quot% shall mean %quot%up to and including%quot%. (6) Or narrowly defined effective rate (NDER).
Appendix 2 Instrument categories for interest rates on new business An annualised agreed rate (AAR)(1) shall be compiled for the following instrument categories(2)(3).
For each indicator reporting agents shall provide a weighted average interest rate applying the definitions and rules as laid down in this Regulation. %gt%TABLE%gt% (1) Or narrowly defined effective rate (NDER). (2) In a participating Member State where one of the following instrument categories is not applied in the banking business of resident credit institutions and other institutions with households and non-financial corporations resident in the participating Member States, the instrument category shall be ignored. (3) In the following table %quot%up to%quot% shall mean %quot%up to and including%quot%.
ANNEX III MINIMUM STANDARDS TO BE APPLIED BY THE ACTUAL REPORTING POPULATION The following minimum standards shall be fulfilled by the reporting agents to meet the statistical reporting requirements of the European Central Bank (ECB).
Minimum standards for transmission (a) reporting by the reporting agents to national central banks (NCBs) shall be timely and within the deadlines set by the NCB of the participating Member State where the reporting agent is resident; (b) statistical reports shall take their form and format from the technical reporting requirements set by the NCB of the participating Member State where the reporting agent is resident; (c) the contact person(s) within the reporting agent shall be identified; and (d) the technical specifications for data transmission to the NCB of the participating Member State where the reporting agent is resident shall be followed.
Until and including the reference month of December 2006, paragraph 10 of Annex I shall read as follows: %quot%10.
