By 31 March of each year at the latest, the director shall prepare a general report on the activities, financial situation and future prospects of the Agency and shall submit it to the administrative board. 2.
After its adoption by the administrative board, the report shall be forwarded to the Commission and to the members of the Committee referred to in the second subparagraph of Article 12 (2).
Article 11 The Agency's revenue shall comprise: 1.
The administrative board shall by 31 March each year send the administrative accounts retracing all the revenue and expenditure for the preceding financial year and the financial statement of the Agency to the Commission and to the Court of Auditors.
The Commission shall forward its replies to the Court of Auditors not later than 31 October.
The Court of Auditors shall send its annual report, together with the Commission's replies not later than 30 November to the European Parliament, to the Council and to the Commission and shall ensure its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Article 16 Members of the administrative board, the director, the staff and all other persons participating in the activities of the Agency shall be required, even after their duties have ceased, not to disclose information of the kind covered by the obligation of professional secrecy.
Article 17 The Agency and its staff shall enjoy the privileges and immunities corresponding to those provided for in Chapters I and V of the Protocol on the privileges and immunities of the European Communities.
If an act of the Agency which has been referred to the Commission is, at the request of a Member State, being examined simultaneously in the Committee referred to in the second subparagraph of Article 12 (2), the Commission shall not take a decision unless the Committee has expressed its opinion.
Article 20 This Regulation shall enter into force on the third day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
