Such provisions, which are already the subject of the Council Resolution of 3 December 1992 concerning the relationship between industrial competitiveness and environmental protection(5), were taken up in the conclusions of the Industry Council of 29 April 1999. (6) Laws, regulations and administrative provisions are in force in some Member States limiting noise and exhaust emissions from recreational craft and engines in order to protect human health, the environment and, where appropriate, domestic animal health.
The measures provided for in this Directive lay down only the essential requirements for the free movement of recreational craft, personal watercraft and all the types of engines to which this Directive applies. (9) These measures are in accordance with the principles set out in the Council Resolution of 7 May 1985 on a new approach to technical harmonisation and standards(7), with reference being made to harmonised European standards. (10) The provisions on exhaust and noise emissions laid down in this Directive should apply to all engines, whether inboard, outboard or stern drive with or without integral exhaust, and to personal watercraft in order to ensure optimum effectiveness in the protection of human health and the environment.
Member States shall not prohibit, restrict or impede the placing on the market and/or putting into service in their territory of products referred to in Article 1(1) bearing the CE marking referred to in Annex IV, which indicates their conformity with all the provisions of this Directive, including the conformity procedures set out in Chapter II. 2.
Member States shall not prohibit, restrict or impede the placing on the market and/or putting into service of components referred to in Annex II and bearing the CE marking referred to in Annex IV which indicates their conformity with the relevant essential requirements where these components are accompanied by a written declaration of conformity as provided for in Annex XV and are intended to be incorporated into recreational craft, in accordance with the declaration, referred to in Annex IIIb, of the manufacturer, his authorised representative established in the Community or, in the case of imports from a third country, of any person who places those components on the Community market. 4.
Member States shall not prohibit, restrict or impede the placing on the market and/or putting into service of: - inboard engines and stern drive propulsion engines without integral exhaust, - engines type-approved according to Directive 97/68/EC(13) which are in compliance with stage II provided for in section 4.2.3 of Annex I to that Directive and of, - engines type-approved according to Directive 88/77/EEC(14); where the manufacturer or his authorised representative established in the Community declares in accordance with Annex XV.3 that the engine will meet the exhaust emission requirements of this Directive, when installed in a recreational craft or personal watercraft in accordance with the manufacturer's supplied instructions. 5.
Where a non-complying product referred to in Article 1 bears the CE marking, the appropriate measures shall be taken by the Member State which has authority over whomsoever affixed the marking; that Member State shall inform the Commission and the other Member States thereof.%quot%; 6.
Before placing on the market, and/or putting into service, products referred to in Article 1(1) the manufacturer or his authorised representative established within the Community shall apply the procedures referred to in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of this Article.
The person who places the product on the market and/or puts it into service must provide the notified body with any available document and technical file referring to the first placing on the market of the product in the country of origin.
With regard to design and construction of products referred to in Article 1(1)(a), the boat manufacturer or his authorised representative established in the Community shall apply the following procedures for boat design categories A, B, C and D as referred to in section 1 of Annex I.A: (a) for categories A and B: (i) for boats from 2,5 m to 12 m hull length: the internal production control plus tests (module Aa) referred to in Annex VI, or the EC type-examination (module B) as described in Annex VII, supplemented by conformity to type (module C) referred to in Annex VIII, or any of the following modules: B+D, or B+E, or B+F, or G or H; (ii) for boats from 12 m to 24 m hull length: the EC type-examination (module B) referred to in Annex VII supplemented by conformity to type (module C) referred to in Annex VIII, or any of the following modules: B+D, or B+E, or B+F, or G or H; (b) for category C: (i) for boats from 2,5 m to 12 m hull length: - where the harmonised standards relating to Sections 3.2 and 3.3 of Annex I.A are complied with: the internal production control (module A), referred to in Annex V, or internal production control plus tests (module Aa) referred to in Annex VI, or the EC type-examination (module B) as described in Annex VII, supplemented by conformity to type (module C) referred to in Annex VIII, or any of the following modules: B+D, or B+E, or B+F, or G, or H, - where the harmonised standards relating to Sections 3.2 and 3.3 of Annex I.A are not complied with: the internal production control plus tests (module Aa) referred to in Annex VI, or the EC type-examination (module B) as described in Annex VII, supplemented by conformity to type (module C) referred to in Annex VIII, or any of the following modules: B+D, or B+E, or B+F, or G, or H; (ii) for boats from 12 m to 24 m hull length: the EC type-examination (module B) referred to in Annex VII followed by conformity to type (module C) referred to in Annex VIII, or any of the following modules: B+D, or B+E, or B+F, or G or H; (c) for category D: for boats from 2,5 m to 24 m hull length: the internal production control (module A) referred to in Annex V, or the internal production control plus tests (module Aa) referred to in Annex VI, or the EC type-examination (module B) as described in Annex VII, supplemented by conformity to type (module C) referred to in Annex VIII, or any of the following modules: B+D, or B+E, or B+F or G or H; (d) for personal watercraft: the internal production control (module A) referred to in Annex V, or the internal production control plus tests (module Aa) referred to in Annex VI, or the EC type-examination (module B) as described in Annex VII followed by conformity to type (module C) referred to in Annex VIII, or any of the following modules: B+D, or B+E, or B+F, or G or H; (e) for components referred to in Annex II: any of the following modules: B+C, or B+D, or B+F, or G or H. 3.
With regard to exhaust emissions: for products referred to in Article 1(1)(b), the engine manufacturer or his authorised representative established in the Community shall apply the EC type-examination (module B) as described in Annex VII followed by conformity to type (module C) referred to in Annex VIII, or any of the following modules: B+D, or B+E, or B+F, or G or H. 4.
The CE marking of conformity, as shown in Annex IV, must appear in a visible, legible and indelible form on the craft and the personal watercraft as in point 2.2 of Annex I.A, on components, as referred to in Annex II and/or on their packaging, and on outboard engines and stern drive engines with integral exhaust as in point 1.1 of Annex I.B.
The CE marking shall be accompanied by the identification number of the body responsible for implementation of the procedures set out in Annexes IX, X, XI, XII, and XVI. 3.
Engine identification 1.1.
Each engine shall be clearly marked with the following information: - engine manufacturer's trademark or trade-name, - engine type, engine family, if applicable, - a unique engine identification number, - CE marking, if required under Article 10. 1.2.
Exhaust emission requirements Propulsion engines shall be designed, constructed and assembled so that when correctly installed and in normal use, emissions shall not exceed the limit values obtained from the following table: Table 1 %gt%TABLE%gt% Where A, B and n are constants in accordance with the table, PN is the rated engine power in kW and the exhaust emissions are measured in accordance with the harmonised standard(16).
For engines above 130 kW either E3 (IMO) or E5 (recreational marine) duty cycles may be used.
Essential requirements for noise emissions Recreational craft with inboard or stern drive engines without integral exhaust, personal watercraft and outboard engines and stern drive engines with integral exhaust shall comply with the following essential requirements for noise emissions. 1.
Recreational craft with inboard or stern drive engines without integral exhaust, personal watercraft and outboard engines and stern drive engines with integral exhaust shall be designed, constructed and assembled so that noise emissions measured in accordance with tests defined in the harmonised standard(17) shall not exceed the limit values in the following table: Table 2 %gt%TABLE%gt% where PN = rated engine power in kW at rated speed and LpASmax = maximum sound pressure level in dB.
This module describes the procedure whereby the manufacturer who satisfies the obligations of point 2 ensures and declares that the products concerned are in conformity with the type as described in the EC type-examination certificate and satisfy the requirements of the directive that apply to them.
The CE mark must be accompanied by the identification symbol of the notified body responsible for surveillance as specified in point 4. 2.
The manufacturer must operate an approved quality system for final product inspection and testing as specified in point 3 and must be subject to surveillance as specified in point 4. 3.
Quality system 3.1.
The application must include: - all relevant information for the product category envisaged, - the quality system's documentation, - if applicable, the technical documentation of the approved type and a copy of the EC type-examination certificate. 3.2.
Under the quality system, each product must be examined and appropriate tests as set out in the relevant standard(s) referred to in Article 5 or equivalent tests shall be carried out in order to ensure its conformity with the relevant requirements of the directive.
The manufacturer must, for a period ending at least 10 years after the last product has been manufactured, keep at the disposal of the national authorities: - the documentation referred to in the third indent of the second subparagraph of point 3.1, - the updating referred to in the second subparagraph of point 3.4, - the decisions and reports from the notified body which are referred to in the final subparagraph of point 3.4, points 4.3 and 4.4. 6.
Member States shall adopt and publish the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with the requirements of this Directive by 30 June 2004.
Member States shall permit the placing on the market and/or putting into service of products which comply with the rules in force in their territory on the date of entry into force of this Directive, as follows: (a) until 31 December 2005 for the products falling under Article 1(1)(a); (b) until 31 December 2005 for compression ignition and four-stroke spark ignition engines; and, (c) until 31 December 2006 for two-stroke spark ignition engines. 3.
Article 4 Member States shall determine the penalties applicable to breaches of the national provisions adopted pursuant to this Directive.
Article 5 This Directive shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Article 6 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Luxembourg, 16 June 2003.
Cox For the Council The President G.
Directive as last amended by Commission Directive 2001/27/EC (OJ L 107, 18.4.2001, p. 10). (15) EN ISO 14509. (16) EN ISO 8178-1: 1996. (17) EN ISO 14509.
