This Directive, which is the thirteenth individual Directive within the meaning of Article 16 (1) of Directive 89/391/EEC, lays down minimum safety and health requirements applicable to work on board the vessels defined in Article 2. 2.
Article 3 General provisions 1.
Article 7 Equipment and maintenance 1.
Article 8 Information for workers 1.
Without prejudice to the provisions of Article 10 of Directive 89/391/EEC, workers and/or their representatives shall be informed of all measures to be taken regarding safety and health on board vessels. 2.
Article 9 Training of workers 1.
Without prejudice to Article 12 of Directive 89/391/EEC, workers shall be given suitable training, in particular in the form of precise, comprehensible instructions, on safety and health on board vessels and on accident prevention in particular. 2.
Article 11 Consultation and participation of workers The consultation of workers and/or their representatives and their participation in discussions on the matters covered by this Directive and its Annexes shall take place in accordance with Article 11 of Directive 89/391/EEC.
Article 12 Adaptation of the Annexes Purely technical adaptations of the Annexes to take account of: - the adoption of directives in the field of technical harmonization and standardization concerning certain aspects of safety and health on board vessels, and/or - technical progress, changes in the international regulations or specifications and new findings in the field of safety and health on board vessels, shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 17 of Directive 89/391/EEC.
Article 13 Final provisions 1.
Member States shall bring into force the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with this Directive by 23 November 1995.
The Commission shall periodically submit to the European Parliament, the Council and the Economic and Social Committee a report on the implementation of this Directive, taking into account paragraphs 1, 2 and 3.
Article 14 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 23 November 1993.
SMET (1) OJ No C 337, 31. 12. 1991, p. 21; OJ No C 311, 27. 11. 1992, p. 21. (2) OJ No C 241, 21. 9. 1992, p. 106; and Decision of 27 October 1993 (not yet published in the Official Journal). (3) OJ No C 169, 6. 7. 1992, p. 46. (4) OJ No C 28, 3. 2. 1988, p. 1. (5) OJ No L 183, 29. 6. 1989, p. 1. (6) OJ No L 113, 30. 4. 1992, p. 19. (7) OJ L 393, 30. 12. 1989, p. 18.
ANNEX I MINIMUM SAFETY AND HEALTH REQUIREMENTS FOR NEW FISHING VESSELS (Articles 4, 6 and 7 (1) (a) Preliminary note The obligations laid down in this Annex apply whenever required by the features of the workplace, the activity, the cirumstances or a risk on board a new fishing vessel. 1.
Seaworthiness and stability 1.1.
Electrical installations must be designed and constructed so as not to present any danger and so as to ensure: - protection for the crew and vessel from electrical hazards, - the proper functioning of all equipment necessary to maintain the vessel in normal operational and living conditions without recourse to an emergency power supply, - the operation of electrical equipment essential for safety in all emergencies. 2.2.
An emergency electrical power source must be provided.
All equipment used in hoisting should be tested and examined at regular intervals. 2.7.
Where refrigeration plants and compressed air systems are installed they should be well maintained and examined at regular intervals. 2.9.
Appropriate lighting must be provided in the living quarters, with: - adequate normal general lighting, - reduced general lighting to avoid disturbing workers who are resting, and - local lighting in each berth. 13.3.
Noise All appropriate technical measures must be taken to reduce the noise level at workplaces and in the living quarters as far as possible, taking into account the size of the vessel. (1) OJ No L 245, 26. 8. 1992, p. 23.
ANNEX II MINIMUM SAFETY AND HEALTH REQUIREMENTS FOR EXISTING FISHING VESSELS (Articles 5 and 7 (1) (a)) Preliminary note The obligations laid down in this Annex apply, in so far as the structural characteristics of the existing fishing vessel permit, whenever required by the features of the workplace, the activity, the circumstances or a risk on board an existing fishing vessel. 1.
Seaworthiness and stability 1.1.
Electrical installations must be designed and constructed so as not to present any danger and so as to ensure: - protection for the crew and vessel from electrical risks, - the proper functioning of all equipment necessary to maintain the vessel in normal operational and living conditions without recourse to an emergency power supply, - the operation of electrical equipment essential for safety in all emergencies. 2.2.
An emergency electrical power source must be provided.
All equipment used in hoisting should be tested and examined at regular intervals. 2.7.
Where refrigeration plants and compressed air systems are installed, they should be well maintained and examined at regular intervals. 2.9.
Escape routes and facilities and emergency exits requiring illumination must be provided with emergency lighting of adequate intensity in case the lighting fails. 5.
Fire-fighting equipment must always be kept in its proper location, maintained in good working order, and be available for immediate use.
If a mechanical ventilation system is used, it must be maintained in good condition. 7.
Workplaces must as far as possible receive sufficient natural light and be equipped with artificial lighting suitable for the operations in hand, without placing workers' safety and health in danger or jeopardizing the navigation of other vessels. 8.2.
Workplaces in which workers are especially exposed to risks in the event of failure of artificial lighting must be provided with emergency lighting of adequate intensity. 8.4.
Spaces accessible to workers must be non-slip or anti-slip or be provided with devices to prevent falls and kept free of obstacles as far as possible. 9.2.
Doors and in particular sliding doors, where such have to be used, must function as safely as possible for the workers, especially in adverse weather and sea conditions. 11.
Traffic routes - danger areas 11.1.
If there is a risk that workers may fall through openings in the deck, or from one deck to another, adequate protection should be provided wherever possible. 11.3.
Bulwarks or other means provided to prevent persons falling overboard must be maintained in an efficient condition.
Working areas must be kept clear and, as far as possible, be protected from the sea and provide adequate protection for workers against falling on the vessel or falling overboard.
The hauling gear operator must have an adequate view of the hauling gear and the workers at work.
Controls must be installed for moving masses, particularly on trawlers: - devices to immobilize the otter boards, - devices to control the swinging motion of the codend. 13.
Appropriate lighting must be installed in the living quarters. 13.2.
All items of life-saving and survival equipment must be kept in their proper locations, maintained in good working order and be available for immediate use.
