Article 6 N° management company may engage in activities other than the management of unit trusts and of investment companies.
A depositary's liability as referred to in Article 9 shall not be affected by the fact that it has entrusted to a third party all or some of the assets in its safe-keeping. 3.
A depositary must, moreover: (a)ensure that the sale, issue, re-purchase, redemption and cancellation of units effected on behalf of a unit trust or by a management company are carried out in accordance with the law and the fund rules; (b)ensure that the value of units is calculated in accordance with the law and the fund rules; (c)carry out the instructions of the management company, unless they conflict with the law or the fund rules; (d)ensure that in transactions involving a unit trust's assets any consideration is remitted to it within the usual time limits; (e)ensure that a unit trust's income is applied in accordance with the law and the fund rules.
Article 11 The law or the fund rules shall lay down the conditions for the replacement of the management company and the depositary and rules to ensure the protection of unit-holders in the event of such replacement.
SECTION IV Obligations regarding the structure of investment companies and their depositaries Article 12 The Member States shall determine the legal form which an investment company must take.
Article 13 N° investment company may engage in activities other than those referred to in Article 1 (2).
A depositary's liability as referred to in Article 16 shall not be affected by the fact that it has entrusted to a third party all or some of the assets in its safe-keeping. 3.
A depositary must, moreover: (a)ensure that the sale, issue, re-purchase, redemption and cancellation of untis effected by or on behalf of a company are carried out in accordance with the law and with the company's instruments of incorporation; (b)ensure that in transactions involving a company's assets any consideration is remitted to it within the usual time limits; (c)ensure that a company's income is applied in accordance with the law and its instruments of incorporation. 4.
A Member State may decide that investment companies situated within its territory which market at least 80 % of their-units through one or more stock exchanges designated in their instruments of incorporation shall not be required to have depositaries within the meaning of this Directive provided that their units are admitted to official listing on the stock exchanges of those Member States within the territories of which the units are marketed, and that any transactions which such a company may effect outwith stock exchanges are effected at stock exchange prices only.
In particular, such companies and the companies referred to in paragraph 4, must: (a)in the absence of provision in law, state in their instruments of incorporation the methods of calculation of the net asset values of their units; (b)intervene on the market to prevent the stock exchange values of their units from deviating by more than 5 % from their net asset values; (c)establish the net asset values of their units, communicate them to the competent authorities at least twice a week and publish them twice a month.
Article 16 A depositary shall, in accordance with the national law of the State in which the investment company's registered office is situated, be liable to the investment company and the unit-holders for any loss suffered by them as a result of its unjustifiable failure to perform its obligations, or its improper performance of them.
Article 18 The law or the investment company's instruments of incorporation shall lay down the conditions for the replacement of the depositary and rules to ensure the protection of unit-holders in the event of such replacement.
SECTION V Obligations concerning the investment policies of UCITS Article 19 1.
However: (a)a UCITS may invest no more than 10 % of its assets in transferable securities other than those referred to in paragraph 1; (b)a Member State may provide that a UCITS may invest no more than 10 % of its assets in debt instruments which, for purposes of this Directive, shall be treated, because of their characteristics, as equivalent to transferable securities and which are, inter alia, transferable, liquid and have a value which can be accurately determined at any time or at least with the frequency stipulated in Article 34; (c)an investment company may acquire movable and immovable property which is essential for the direct pursuit of its business; (d)a UCITS may not acquire either precious metals or certificates representing them. 3.
The Member States shall send to the Commission : (a)no later than date of implementation of this Directive, lists of the debt instruments which, in accordance with Article 19 (2) (b), they plan to treat as equivalent to transferable securities, stating the characteristics of those instruments and the reasons for so doing; (b)details of any amendments which they contemplate making to the lists of instruments referred to in (a) or any further instruments which they contemplate treating as equivalent to transferable securities, together with their reasons for so doing. 2.
Such communications may be the subject of exchanges of views within the Contact Committee in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 53 (4).
A UCITS may invest no more than 5 % of its assets in transferable securities issued by the same body. 2.
The Member States may raise the limit laid down in paragraph 1 to a maximum of 10 %.
However, the total value of the transferable securities held by a UCITS in the issuing bodies in each of which it invests more than 5 % of its assets must not then exceed 40 % of the value of its assets. 3.
The Member States may raise the limit laid down in paragraph 1 to a maximum of 35 % if the transferable securities are issued or guaranteed by a Member State, by its local authorities, by a non-member State or by public international bodies of which one or more Member States are members.
By way of derogation from Article 22 and without prejudice to Article 68 (3) of the Treaty, the Member States may authorize UCITS to invest in accordance with the principle of risk-spreading up to 100 % of their assets in different transferable securities issued or guaranteed by any Member State, its local authorities, a non-member State or public international bodies of which one or more Member States are members.
The competent authorities shall grant such a derogation only if they consider that unit-holders in the UCITS have protection equivalent to that of unit-holders in UCITS complying with the limits laid down in Article 22.
Such a UCITS must hold securities from at least six different issues, but securities from any one issue may not account for more than 30 % of its total assets. 2.
The UCITS referred to in paragraph 1 must make express mention in the fund rules or in the investment company's instruments of incorporation of the States, local authorities or public international bodies issuing or guaranteeing securities in which they intend to invest more than 35 % of their assets; such fund rules or instruments of incorporation must be approved by the competent authorities. 3.
A UCITS may invest no more than 5 % of its assets in the units of such collective investment undertakings. 3.
Investment in the units of a unit trust managed by the same management company or by any other company with which the management company is linked by common management or control, or by a substantial direct or indirect holding, shall be permitted only in the case of a trust which, in accordance with its rules, has specialized in investment in a specific geographical area or economic sector, and provided that such investment is authorized by the competent authorities.
A management company may not charge any fees or costs on account of transactions relating to a unit trust's units where some of a unit trust's assets are invested in the units of another unit trust managed by the same management company or by any other company with which the management company is linked by common management or control, or by a substantial direct or indirect holding. 4.
A Member State may waive application of paragraphs 1 and 2 as regards: (a)transferable securities issued or guaranteed by a Member State or its local authorities; (b)transferable securities issued or guaranteed by a non-member State; (c)transferable securities issued by public international bodies of which one or more Member States are members; (d)shares held by a UCITS in the capital of a company incorporated in a non-member State investing its assets mainly in the securities of issuing bodies having their registered offices in that State, where under the legislation of that State such a holding represents the only way in which the UCITS can invest in the securities of issuing bodies of that State.
This derogation, however, shall apply only if in its investment policy the company from the non-member State complies with the limits laid down in Articles 22, 24 and 25 (1) and (2).
While ensuring observance of the principle of risk-spreading, the Member States may allow recently authorized UCITS to derogate from Articles 22 and 23 for six months following the date of their authorization. 2.
It shall contain at least the information provided for in Schedule A annexed to this Directive, insofar as that information does not already appear in the documents annexed to the prospectus in accordance with Article 29 (1). 2.
Article 30 The essential elements of the prospectus must be kept up to date.
Article 32 A UCITS must send its prospectus and any amendments thereto, as well as its annual and half-yearly reports, to the competent authorities.
Article 35 All publicity comprising an invitation to purchase the units of a UCITS must indicate that a prospectus exists and the places where it may be obtained by the public.
SECTION VII The general obligations of UCITS Article 36 1.
By way of derogation from paragraph 1, a Member State may authorize a UCITS to borrow: (a)up to 10 % -of its assets, in the case of an investment company, or -of the value of the fund, in the case of a unit trust, provided that the borrowing is on a temporary basis; (b)up to 10 % of its assets, in the case of an investment company, provided that the borrowing is to make possible the acquisition of immovable property essential for the direct pursuit of its business; in this case the borrowing and that referred to in subparagraph (a) may not in any case in total exceed 15 % of the borrower's assets.
Article 38 The rules for the valuation of assets and the rules for calculating the sale or issue price and the re-purchase or redemption price of the units of a UCITS must be laid down in the law, in the fund rules or in the investment company's instruments of incorporation.
Article 39 The distribution or reinvestment of the income of a unit trust or of an investment company shall be effected in accordance with the law and with the fund rules or the investment company's instruments of incorporation.
Article 40 A UCITS unit may not be issued unless the equivalent of the net issue price is paid into the assets of the UCITS within the usual time limits.
Article 42 Neither: -an investment company, nor -a management company or depository acting on behalf of a unit trust may carry out uncovered sales of transferable securities.
Article 43 The law or the fund rules must prescribe the remuneration and the expenditure which a management company is empowered to charge to a unit trust and the method of calculation of such remuneration.
SECTION VIII Special provisions applicable to UCITS which market their units in Member States other than those in which they are situated Article 44 1.
Article 47 If a UCITS markets its units in a Member State other than that in which it is situated, it must distribute in that other Member State, in at least one of that other Member State's official languages, the documents and information which must be published in the Member State in which it is situated, in accordance with the same procedures as those provided for in the latter State.
Article 48 For the purpose of carrying on its activities, a UCITS may use the same generic name (such as investment company or unit trust) in the Community as it uses in the Member State in which it is situated.
SECTION IX Provisions concerning the authorities responsible for authorization and supervision Article 49 1.
The authorities referred to in paragraph 1 must be public authorities or bodies appointed by public authorities. 3.
However, the authorities of the State in which a UCITS markets its units in accordance with Article 44 shall be competent to supervise compliance with Section VIII. 4.
The authorities of the Member States referred to in Article 49 shall collaborate closely in order to carry out their task and must for that purpose alone communicate to each other all information required. 2.
The Member States shall provide that all persons employed or formerly employed by the authorities referred to in Article 49 shall be bound by professional secrecy.
Without prejudice to cases covered by criminal law, an authority of the type referred to in Article 49 receiving such information may use it only for the performance of its duties or in the context of administrative appeals or legal proceedings relating to such performance.
The authorities referred to in Article 49 must give reasons for any decision to refuse authorization, and any negative decision taken in implementation of the general measures adopted in application of this Directive, and communicate them to applicants. 2.
SECTION X Contact Committee Article 53 1.
SECTION XI Transitional provisions, derogations and final provisions Article 54 Solely for the purpose of Danish UCITS, pantebreve issued in Denmark shall be treated as equivalent to the transferable securities referred to in Article 19 (1) (b).
Article 55 By way of derogation from Articles 7 (1) and 14 (1), the competent authorities may authorize those UCITS which, on the date of adoption of this Directive, had two or more depositaries in accordance with their national law to maintain that number of depositaries if those authorities have guarantees that the functions to be performed under Articles 7 (3) and 14 (3) will be performed in practice.
The Member States may authorize those management companies which, on the date of adoption of this Directive, also carry on activities other than those provided for in Article 6 to continue those other activities for five years after that date.
Article 58 The Member States shall ensure that the Commission is informed of the texts of the main laws, regulations and administrative provisons which they adopt in the field covered by this Directive.
Article 59 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
