Detailed rules for the implementation of those Annexes may be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 75. 4.
However, these products may not be used in the preparation of alcohol having an actual alcoholic strength by volume of 80 % vol or less. 3.
Such a derogation shall be granted by 31 July 2002 and shall involve permission being granted for the areas concerned to produce wine which is to be marketed.
The derogation shall be granted: (a) where the producer concerned had previously grubbed up other vines on an equivalent area in terms of pure crop except in cases where the grower concerned has received a premium for grubbing-up under Community or national legislation in respect of the area concerned; and/or (b) by permitting the use of replanting rights where a producer has obtained them within a period to be fixed subsequent to the planting of the area concerned; Member States may also use the newly created planting rights for this purpose under Article 6(1); and/or (c) where the Member State can prove (to the satisfaction of the Commission) that it has unclaimed replanting rights which would still be valid if they had been applied for; such rights may be used and reallocated to producers for an area equivalent in pure crop; and/or (d) where the producer concerned had undertaken to grub up an area equivalent in terms of pure crop, within a period of three years, where that area has been entered in the Vineyard Register of the Member State concerned. 4.
The replanting rights shall be for an area equivalent in terms of pure crop to that from which vines have been or are to be grubbed up. 3.
The following shall be allocated to the reserve or reserves: (a) new planting rights, replanting rights and planting rights granted from the reserve which are not used within the time limits laid down respectively in Article 3(4), Article 4(5) and paragraph 6 of this Article; (b) replanting rights allocated to the reserve by producers who hold such rights, where necessary in return for a payment from national funds, the amount of which, and any other detail of which, shall be determined by the Member States taking into account the legitimate interests of the parties; (c) newly created planting rights, as referred to in Article 6. 3.
The newly created planting rights, including the new planting rights granted by the Member States under Article 3(2), shall be allocated as follows: (a) Germany: 1534 ha Greece: 1098 ha Spain: 17355 ha France: 13565 ha Italy: 12933 ha Luxembourg: 18 ha Austria: 737 ha Portugal: 3760 ha (b) Community reserve: 17000 ha. 2.
Detailed rules for the application of this Chapter shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 75.
By 31 December 2003, and at three-yearly intervals from the date, the Commission shall submit a report to the European Parliament and the Council on the operation of this Chapter.
CHAPTER II ABANDONMENT PREMIUMS Article 8 1.
The area concerned shall not be less than 10 acres. 2.
Article 10 Detailed rules for the application of this Chapter shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 75.
CHAPTER III RESTRUCTURING AND CONVERSION Article 11 1.
Article 12 Member States shall be responsible for restructuring and conversion plans, including, where appropriate, the approval of plans.
The Community contribution to the costs of restructuring and conversion shall not exceed 50 % of those costs.
Article 15 Detailed rules for the implementation of this Chapter shall be adopted according to the procedure laid down in Article 75.
CHAPTER IV INFORMATION AND GENERAL PROVISIONS Article 16 1.
However, in this case, all regional inventories shall be drawn up by 31 December 2001.
The following varieties may not be included in the classification: - Noah - Othello - Isabelle - Jacquez - Clinton - Herbemont. 2.
Article 20 The rules governing the Community vineyard register shall be those set out in Regulation (EEC) No 2392/86.
Article 21 Chapters I and II of this Title shall not apply in Member States where wine production does not exceed 25000 hectolitres per wine year.
Article 22 Member States may adopt more restrictive national rules in respect of the new planting or replanting of vines or grafting-on.
Detailed rules for the application of this Chapter shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 75.
Regulation (EEC) No 2392/86 may be amended or repealed in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 75. 4.
TITLE III MARKET MECHANISMS CHAPTER I PRIVATE STORAGE AID Article 24 1.
The aid shall be granted subject to the conclusion with intervention agencies, between 16 December and 15 February of the following year and on conditions to be determined, of a long-term storage contract. 3.
Long-term storage contracts shall be concluded for a period which ends: (a) at the earliest, for table wines, on 1 September following the date of conclusion, and for grape musts, concentrated grape musts and rectified concentrated grape musts, on 1 August following the date of conclusion; (b) at the latest, on 30 November following the date of conclusion.
The conclusion of storage contracts shall be subject to conditions relating in particular to the quality of the products in question. 2.
Detailed rules for the application of this Chapter shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 75.
These rules may in particular provide: - for the fixing of the level, rate and coefficient referred to in Article 25, - that long-term storage contracts for table wine may only be concluded for specific table wines, - that grape musts which are the subject of a long-term storage contract may be converted, wholly or partially, into concentrated grape must or rectified concentrated grape must during the period of the contract, - for rules concerning the application of the provision for the termination of aid payments as referred to in Article 25(2), - that grape musts and concentrated grape musts intended for the manufacture of grape juice may not be the subject of a long-term storage contract, - for the effective duration of contracts. 2.
CHAPTER II DISTILLATION Article 27 1.
The quantity of alcohol contained in the by-products must be at least equal to 10 % in relation to the volume of alcohol contained in the wine produced if the wine has been made directly from grapes.
Save in the case of derogations for technically justified cases, it may not be less than 5 % where the wine has been made by vinification of grape musts, partially fermented grape musts or new wines in fermentation.
The distiller may either: (a) receive aid in respect of the product to be distilled, provided that the product obtained by distillation has an alcoholic strength of at least 52 % vol; or (b) deliver the product obtained by distillation to the intervention agency; provided that it has an alcoholic strength of at least 92 % vol.
Paragraphs 1 to 12 shall not apply to grape juice or concentrated grape juice or grape must or concentrated grape must intended for the preparation of grape juice.
The distiller may either: (a) receive aid in respect of the product to be distilled, provided that the product obtained by distillation has an alcoholic strength of at least 52 % vol; or (b) deliver the product obtained by distillation to the intervention agency, provided that it has an alcoholic strength of at least 92 % vol.
Detailed rules for the application of this Chapter shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 75.
CHAPTER III AIDS FOR SPECIFIC USES Article 34 1.
Aid is hereby established for the use of: (a) grape musts and concentrated grape musts produced within the Community for the purpose of manufacturing grape juice or manufacturing other comestible products from such grape juice; (b) grape musts and concentrated grape musts produced in zone C III for the purpose of manufacturing, in the United Kingdom and in Ireland, products falling within CN code 2206 00 in respect of which, pursuant to Annex VII, paragraph 2 of point C, the use of a composite name including the word %quot%wine%quot% may be allowed by these Member States; (c) concentrated grape musts produced within the Community as the main element in a set of products marketed in the United Kingdom and Ireland with clear instructions for the consumer to obtain from it a beverage in imitation of wine (home-made wine). 2.
Article 36 Detailed rules for the application of this Chapter shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 75.
These rules shall in particular include: (a) the conditions for granting the aid referred to in Article 34(1); (b) the measures necessary to ensure control of the use of the products referred to in Article 35(1); (c) the amount of the aid referred to in Articles 34 and 35, which shall be fixed before the start of each wine year; (d) the decision referred to in Article 35(2).
CHAPTER IV GENERAL PROVISIONS Article 37 Producers subject to the obligations referred to in Articles 27 and 28 shall be entitled to benefit from intervention measures under this Title provided that they have complied with the above obligations for a reference period to be determined.
That period, and the detailed rules for the implementation of this Article, shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 75.
The Commission shall check that Article 39 and paragraph 1(b) of this Article are complied with by carrying out checks and in the light of such checks shall, where appropriate, call on Member States to withdraw recognition.
CHAPTER II SECTORAL ORGANISATIONS Article 41 1.
TITLE V OENOLOGICAL PRACTICES AND PROCESSES, DESCRIPTION, DESIGNATION, PRESENTATION AND PROTECTION CHAPTER I OENOLOGICAL PRACTICES AND PROCESSES Article 42 1.
Except where otherwise decided, only grapes belonging to varieties listed in the classification established in accordance with Article 19 as wine grape varieties, or products derived therefrom, may be used in the Community for the manufacture of: (a) grape must with fermentation arrested by the addition of alcohol; (b) concentrated grape must; (c) rectified concentrated grape must; (d) wine suitable for yielding table wine; (e) table wine; (f) quality wines psr; (g) liqueur wine; (h) grape must in fermentation, extracted from raisined grapes; (i) wine from over-ripened grapes. 6.
The authorised oenological practices and processes are set out in Annex IV and Annex V. 2.
Of the products falling within CN codes 2204 10, 2204 21 and 2204 29, only liqueur wines, sparkling wines, aerated sparkling wines, semi-sparkling wines, aerated semi-sparkling wines, quality wines psr, table wines and where appropriate, notwithstanding Article 45, legally imported wines may be offered or delivered for direct human consumption within the Community. 2.
Without prejudice to any more restrictive provisions which Member States apply with respect to this preparation in their territory of products not falling within CN codes 2204 10, 2204 21 and 2204 29, fresh grape must with fermentation arrested by the addition of alcohol may be used only in the preparation of such products. 5.
They may not undergo alcoholic fermentation in the territory of the Community. 6.
Wine fortified for distillation may only be used for distillation. 11.
Fresh grapes, grape must, grape must in fermentation, concentrated grape must, rectified concentrated grape must, grape must with fermentation arrested by the additional of alcohol, grape juice and concentrated grape juice originating in third countries may not be turned into wine or added to wine in the territory of the Community. 13.
The products referred to in paragraph 12 may not undergo alcoholic fermentation within the territory of the Community.
This provision shall not apply to products intended for the production in the United Kingdom and Ireland of products falling within CN code 2206 00 for which, pursuant to Annex VII, paragraph 2 of point C, Member States may allow the use of a composite name including the word %quot%wine%quot%. 14.
Coupage of a wine originating in a third country with a Community wine and coupage in the geographical territory of the Community between wines originating in third countries shall be prohibited. 15.
The Council may derogate from paragraph 12, the first sentence of paragraph 13 and paragraph 14, in accordance with the international obligations of the Community.
Except by way of derogation, the following products may not be offered or disposed of for direct human consumption: (a) products falling within CN codes 2204 30 10, 2204 21, 2204 29 and 2204 10, whether imported or not, which have undergone oenological practices not authorised by Community rules or, where this is permitted, by national rules; (b) products as referred to in Article 1(2)(a), (b) and (c) which are not of sound and fair merchantable quality; (c) products as referred to in Article 1(2) which do not comply with the definitions shown in Annex I. 2.
The derogations referred to in paragraph 1 for imported products shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 133 of the Treaty.
Detailed rules for the application of this Chapter, and Annexes IV and V, shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 75.
These rules shall, in particular, provide for: (a) in respect of point A of Annex V, transitional measures concerning wines produced before 1 September 1986 and amendments to the lists of wines in paragraph 2; (b) in respect of Annexes IV and V, the limits and certain conditions for the use of the oenological practices and processes referred to in those Annexes, with the exception of limits and conditions fixed in those Annexes; (c) the decisions, exceptions, derogations, conditions and lists referred to in this Chapter and Annex V; (d) the application of points C to G of Annex V to products harvested in Community regions not included within the wine-growing zones specified in Annex III; (e) in respect of point J of Annex V, the lists referred to in paragraphs 2(b) and 6 thereof, the derogations referred to in paragraph 4(b) and the declaration and registration procedure referred to in paragraph 6. 2.
CHAPTER II DISCRIPTION, DESIGNATION, PRESENTATION AND PROTECTION OF CERTAIN PRODUCTS Article 47 1.
The use of a geographical indication to designate table wines resulting from the coupage of wines from grapes harvested in different wine-growing areas shall be permitted if at least 85 % of the table wine resulting from the coupage originates in the wine-growing area whose name it bears.
Notwithstanding the first subparagraph, the Council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission may decide, until 31 August 2001, to allow certain geographical names traditionally used to designate a table wine and which have become the name of a given region to continue to be used also to designate table wines for a maximum of three wine years. 2.
The use of a name or a term as referred to in point 2 or of the words %quot%Hock%quot%, %quot%Claret%quot%, %quot%Liebfrauenmilch%quot% and %quot%Liebfraumilch%quot%,even when accompanied by a word such as %quot%kind%quot%, %quot%type%quot%, %quot%style%quot%, %quot%imitation%quot% or other similar expression, shall be prohibited with respect to the description and presentation of: - an item covered by CN code 2206, except where the item in question actually comes from the place so designated, - an item marketed with clear instructions for the consumer to obtain from it a beverage in imitation of wine (home-made wine); however, the name of a vine variety may be used if the item in question is actually obtained from such variety unless that name gives rise to confusion with the name of a specific region or geographically unit used to describe a quality wine psr. 4.
However, even if the recognition referred to in point (a) has not taken place, those names may continue to be used until 31 December 2000 provided that there is compliance with point (b).
The detailed rules for the implementation of this Chapter and Annexes VII and VIII shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 75.
The rules shall govern in particular the derogations, conditions and authorisations provided for in those Annexes. 2.
The following provisions shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 75: (a) the indications, signs and other marks referred to in the introductory part of Annex VII, or in paragraph 2 of point A of Annex VIII; (b) the list of traditional specific terms referred to in the fourth sub-indent of the second indent of paragraph 2(c) of point A of Annex VII, or referred to in the second indent of paragraph 2(c) of point B of Annex VIII; (c) the conditions for using the geographical indications referred to in paragraph 2 of point A of Annex VII; (d) the particulars referred to in paragraph 4 of point A of Annex VII; (e) the conditions for using the particulars referred to in paragraph 1 of point B of Annex VII, and the circumstances for using the particulars referred to in paragraph 3 of point B of Annex VII; (f) the particulars referred to in paragraph 2 of point B of Annex VII, and the conditions under which they are used; (g) the extent to which and the conditions under which the provisions of Annex VII are applied to products covered by this Regulation which are not referred to in paragraph 1 of point A of Annex VII or in Annex VIII, in particular grape must, partially fermented grape must, concentrated grape must, new wine still in fermentation and wine of overripe grapes, produced in the Community; (h) the conditions under which products are packed and transported in containers and their use and making, including in respect of containers for making and storing sparkling wine; (i) the giving, where appropriate, of the names of geographical units referred to in the second indent of paragraph 1 of point E of Annex VIII; (j) the compulsory and optional particulars to be included in registers and in official and commercial documents; (k) the detailed arrangements referred to respectively in paragraphs 2 and 5 of point G of Annex VIII; (l) the detailed arrangements and derogating provisions referred to in paragraph 6 of point I of Annex VIII.
TITLE VI QUALITY WINE PRODUCED IN SPECIFIED REGIONS Article 54 1.
The provisions of point K of Annex VI shall apply in respect of quality sparkling wine psr only.
The provisions of point L of Annex VI shall apply to quality liqueur wine psr only.
Article 58 Detailed rules for the application of this Title and Annex VI shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 75.
TITLE VII TRADE WITH THIRD COUNTRIES Article 59 1.
For juice and musts falling within CN code 2009 60 and 2204 30 for which the application of the Common Customs Tariff duties depends on the import price of the product, the actual amount of this price shall be verified either by checking every consignment or be using a flat-rate import value calculated by the Commission on the basis of price quotations for the same products in the countries of origin.
The trigger volumes which must be exceeded for an additional import duty to be imposed shall be determined in particular on the basis of Community imports over the three years preceding the year in which the adverse effects referred to in paragraph 1 have occured or are likely to occur. 3.
The Commision shall adopt detailed rules for the application of this Article in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Article 75.
Tariff quotas for the products covered by this Regulation resulting from agreements concluded in accordance with Article 300 of the Treaty or from any other act of the Council shall be opened and administered by the Commission in accordance with detailed rules adopted under the procedure laid down in Article 75. 2.
To the extent necessary to enable the export of: (a) products listed in Article 1(2)(a), (b) and (c); (b) sugars falling within CN code 1701, glucose and glucose syrup falling within CN codes 1702 30 91, 1702 30 99 1702 40 90 and 1702 90 50, including in the form of products falling within CN codes 1702 30 51 and 1702 30 59, incorporated into products falling with CN codes 2009 60 11, 2009 60 71, 2009 60 79 and 2204 30 99, on the basis of prices for those products in international trade and within the limits resulting from agreements concluded in accordance with Article 300 of the Treaty, the difference between those prices and prices in the Community may be covered by export refunds. 2.
Refunds shall be the same for the whole Community.
The refunds referred to in paragraph 1(a) shall be fixed in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 75.
The provisions of Article 64 regarding the products referred to therein shall apply on a supplementary basis. 4.
Paragraphs 4 and 5 may be waived in the case of products listed in Article 1 on which refunds are paid under food-aid operations, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 75. 7.
Compliance with the limits on volumes arising from agreement concluded in accordance with Article 300 of the Treaty shall be ensured on the basis of the export certificates issued for the reference periods provided for therein and applicable to the products concerned.
The amount of the refund for products referred to in Article 63(1)(b) shall be: (a) in the case of raw sugar and white sugar, the amount of refund for export of these products unprocessed as fixed in accordance with Article 17 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1785/81 of 30 June 1981 on the common organisation of the market in the sugar sector(53), and with the provisions adopted for its application; (b) in the case of glucose and glucose syrup, the amount of the refund for export of these products unprocessed as fixed for each of these products in accordance with Article 13 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1766/92 of 30 June 1992 on the common organisation of the market in cereals(54), and with the provisions adopted for its application.
Without prejudice to the third subparagraph of Article 63(3), the intervals at which the list of products for which a refund is actually granted is to be fixed and the amount of that refund shall be determined in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 75. 6.
Additional provisions may be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 75. 7.
Without prejudice to paragraph 6(a), in the absence of a derogation granted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 75, no export refund shall be granted on products imported from third countries and re-exported to third countries.
Detailed rules for the application of this Article, and in particular the conditions for the equivalence of products, and derogations from paragraph 1 shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 75.
The products referred to in Article 1(2)(a) and (b) may be imported only if the following conditions are fulfilled: (a) in respect of all the products: (i) if they correspond to the provisions governing production, marketing and, where appropriate, delivery for direct human consumption in the third countries in which they originate, and evidence of compliance with this conditon is furnished in the form of a certificate issued by a competent body, included on a list to be determined, in the third country in which the product originates; (ii) where they are intended for direct human consumption, if they are accompanied by an analysis report drawn up by a body or department desingated by the third country in which the product originates; (b) in respect of wines intended for direct human consumption other than liqueur wines and sparkling wines: (i) if they have an actual alcoholic strength by volume of not less than 9 % vol and a total alcoholic strength by volume not exceeding 15 % vol; (ii) if they have a total acidity content expressed as tartaric acid of not less than 3,5 or 46,6 milliequivalents per litre. 2.
Provisions may be made under the procedure laid down in Article 75 for: (a) the definition of the characteristics which liqueur wines and sparkling wines shall prossess and derogation from paragraph 1(b), (b) dispensing with the certificate and the analysis report provided for in paragraph 1(a) in the case of certain products as referred to in paragraph 1 which are transported in limited quantities and put up in small containers, (c) waiving wholly or in part the requirment for the particulars contained in the certificate or the analysis report provided for in paragraph 1(a) in the case of certain wines accompanied by a certificate of designation of origin or by a certificate of origin. 3.
Detailed rules for the application of this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 75.
If, by reason of imports or exports, the Community market in one or more of the products listed in Article 1(2) is affected by, or is threatened with, serious disturbance likely to jeopardise the achievement of the objectives set out in Article 33 of the Treaty, appropriate measures may be applied in trade with third countries until such disturbance has ceased.
TITLE VIII GENERAL, TRANSITIONAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS Article 70 1.
Save as otherwise provided in this Regulation, Articles 87, 88 and 89 of the Treaty shall apply to the production of and trade in the products covered by this Regulation. 2.
Detailed rules for the application of this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 75.
Article 73 Member States and the Commission shall communicate to each other the information necessary for implementing this Regulation.
Article 74 A Management Committee for Wine (herainafter called %quot%the Committee%quot%) is hereby set up consisting of representatives of Member States and chaired by a representative of the Commission.
Article 76 The Committee may examine any other question raised by the Chairman, either on his own initiative or at the request of the representative of a Member State.
This Regulation shall be so applied that appropriate account is taken, at the same time, of the objectives set out in Article 33 and 131 of the Treaty. 2.
Regulation (EC) No 1258/1999 and the provisions adopted in implementation thereof shall apply to the products covered by this Regulation. 2.
The premium referred to in Chapter II of Title II, the support referred to in Chapter III of that Title, the aid referred to in Chapter I of Title III, the buying-in and support referred to in Chapter II of that Title and the aids referred to in Chapter III of that Title and the refunds referred to in Title VII shall be regarded as intervention designed to stabilise agricultural markets within the meaning of Article 2(2) of Regulation (EC) No 1258/1999. 3.
Article 79 With a view to preventing surpluses of table wine and wines suitable for yielding table wine, the Member States may set a limit for crop yields expressed as an amount of hectolitres per hectare, the overshoot of which shall result in the producers' ineligibility for benefits under this Regulation.
Article 80 In accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 75, measures shall be adopted: (a) to facilitate the transition from the arrangements provided for in the Regulations referred to in Article 81 and those established by this Regulation; (b) where required, to resolve specific practical problems.
Article 81 Regulations (EEC) No 346/79, (EEC) No 351/79, (EEC) No 460/79, (EEC) No 456/80, (EEC) No 457/80, (EEC) No 458/80, (EEC) No 1873/84, (EEC) No 895/85, (EEC) No 822/87, (EEC) No 823/87, (EEC) No 1442/88, (EEC) No 3877/88, (EEC) No 4252/88, (EEC) No 2046/89, (EEC) No 2048/89, (EEC) No 2389/89, (EEC) No 2390/89, (EEC) No 2391/89, (EEC) No 2392/89, (EEC) No 3677/89, (EEC) No 3895/91, (EEC) No 2332/92 and (EEC) No 2333/92 are hereby repealed.
Article 82 This Regulation shall enter into force on the seventh day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Done at Brussels, 17 May 1999.
Regulation as last amended by Regulation (EG) No 1253/1999 (OJ L 160, 26.6.1999, p. 18.) ANNEX I PRODUCT DEFINITIONS The following definitions shall apply to: - products obtained in the Community from grapes harvested in the Community, including wine referred to in the sixth indent of pargraph 15, and - products other than those referred to in paragraphs 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18 and 24 where they - originate in third countries, or - are manufactured in the Community from grapes harvested outside the Community insofar as their manufacture is permitted under this Regulation.
Grape must in fermentation extracted from raisined grapes: the product obtained from the partial fermentation of grape must obtained from raisined grapes, the total sugar content of which before fermentation is at least 272 grams per litre and the natural and actual alcoholic strength by volume of which may not be less than 8 % vol.
Concentrated grape must: uncaramelised grape must which is: - obtained by partial dehydration of grape must carried out by any authorised method other than by direct heat in such a way that the figure indicated by a refractometer used in accordance with a method to be prescribed at a temperature of 20 °C is not less than 50,9 %; - derived exclusively from vine varieties referred to in Article 42(5); - obtained from grape must having at least the minimum natural alcoholic strength by volume laid down for the vine-growing zone in which the grapes were harvested.
Rectified concentrated grape must: the liquid uncaramelised product which: - is obtained by partial dehydration of grape must carried out by any authorised method other than direct heat in such a way that the figure indicated by a refractometer used in accordance with a method to be prescribed at a temperature of 20 °C is not less than 61,7 %; - has undergone authorised treatment for deacidification and elimination of constituents other than sugar; - has the following characteristics: - a pH of not more than 5 at 25 ° Brix, - an optical density at 425 nm for a thickness of 1 cm of not more than 0,100 in grape must concentrated at 25 ° Brix, - a sucrose content undetectable by a method of analysis to be defined, - a Folin-Ciocalteau index of not more than 6,00 at 25 ° Brix, - a titratable acidity of not more than 15 milliequivalents per kilogram of total sugars, - a sulphur dioxide content of not more than 25 milligrams per kilogram of total sugars, - a total cation content of not more than 8 milliequivalents per kilogram of total sugars, - a conductivity at 25 ° Brix and 20 °C of not more than 120 micro-Siemens/cm, - a hydroxymethylfurfural content of not more than 25 milligrams per kilogram of total sugars, - presence of mesoinositol, - is derived exclusively from the vine varieties referred to in Article 42(5), - is obtained from grape must having at least the minimum natural alcoholic strength by volume laid down for the vine-growing zone in which the grapes were harvested.
Concentrated grape juice: uncaramelised grape juice obtained by partial dehydration of grape juice carried out by any authorised method other than by direct heat in such a way that the figure indicated by a refractometer used in accordance with a method to be prescribed at a temperature of 20 °C is not less than 50,9 %.
Wine suitable for yielding table wine: wine which: - is derived exclusively from vine varieties referred to in Article 42(5); - is produced in the Community, and - has at least the minimum natural alcoholic strength by volume laid down for the vine-growing zone in which it was produced. 13.
obtained: (a) from: - grape must in fermentation; or - wine; or - a combination of the above products; or - in the case of certain quality liqueur wines psr to be determined, grape must or a mixture thereof with wine, all these products being required, in the case of liqueur wines and quality liqueur wines psr: - to be derived from vine varieties which shall be selected from among those referred to in Article 42(5); and - with the exception of certain quality liquer wines psr appearing on a list to be drawn up, to have an initial natural alcoholic strength by volume of not less than 12 % vol.; (b) and by addition: (i) individually or in combination: - of neutral alcohol of vine origin, including alcohol produced from the distillation of dried grapes, having an actual alcoholic strength by volume of not less than 96 % vol.; - of wine or dried grape distillate, having an actual alcoholic strength by volume of not less than 52 % vol.
Semi-sparkling wine: the product which: - is obtained from table wine, quality wine psr or from products suitable for yielding table wine or quality wine psr provided that such wine or products have a total alcoholic strength of not less than 9 % vol.; - has an actual alcoholic strength by volume of not less than 7 % vol.; - has an excess pressure, due to endogenous carbon dioxide in solution of not less than 1 bar and not more than 2,5 bar when kept at a temperature of 20 °C in closed containers; - is put up in containers of 60 litres or less. 18.
Wine vinegar: vinegar which: - is obtained exclusively by acetous fermentation of wine; and - has a total acidity of not less than 60 grams per litre expressed as acetic acid. 20.
Actual alcoholic strength by volume means the number of volumes of pure alcohol contained at a temperature of 20 °C in 100 volumes of the product at that temperature. 2.
Potential alcoholic strength by volume means the number of volumes of pure alcohol at a temperature of 20 °C capable of being produced by total fermentation of the sugars contained in 100 volumes of the product at that temperature. 3.
Actual alcoholic strength by mass means the number of kilograms of pure alcohol contained in 100 kilograms of product. 6.
Potential alcoholic strength by mass means the number of kilograms of pure alcohol capable of being produced by total fermentation of the sugars contained in 100 kilograms of the product. 7.
Wine-growing zone A comprises: (a) in Germany: the areas under vines other than those included in wine-growing zone B; (b) in Luxembourg: the Luxembourg wine-growing region; (c) in Belgium, the Netherlands, Denmark, Ireland, Sweden and the United Kingdom: the wine-growing of areas of these countries. 2.
Wine-growing zone B comprises: (a) in Germany, the areas under vines in the specified region Baden; (b) in France, the areas under vines in the departments not mentioned in this Annex and in the following departments: - in Alsace: Bas-Rhin, Haut-Rhin; - in Lorraine: Meurthe-et-Moselle, Meuse, Moselle, Vosges; - in Champagne: Aisne, Aube, Marne, Haute-Marne, Seine-et-Marne; - in the Jura: Ain, Doubs, Jura, Haute-Saône; - in Savoie: Savoie, Haute-Savoie, Isère (Commune de Chapareillan); - in the Val de Loire: Cher, Deux-Sèvres, Indre, Indre-et-Loire, Loir-et-Cher, Loire-Atlantique, Loiret, Maine-et-Loire, Sarthe, Vendée, Viene, and the areas under vines in the arrondissement of Cosne-sur-Loire in the department of Nièvre; (c) in Austria: the Austrian wine-growing area. 3.
Wine-growing zone C I a) comprises the area under vines: (a) in France: - in the following departments: Allier, Alpes-de-Haute-Provence, Hautes-Alpes, Alpes-Maritimes, Ariège, Aveyron, Cantal, Charente, Charente-Maritime, Corrèze, Côte-d'Or, Dordogne, Haute-Garonne, Gers, Gironde, Isère (with the exception of the commune of Chapareillan), Landes, Loire, Haute-Loire, Lot, Lot-et-Garonne, Lozère, Nièvre (except for the arrondissements of Cosne-sur-Loire), Puy-de-Dôme, Pyrénées-Atlantiques, Hautes-Pyrénées, Rhône, Saône-et-Loire, Tarn, Tarn-et-Garonne, Haute-Vienne, Yonne; - in the arrondissements of Valence and Die in the department of Drôme (except for the cantons of Dieulefit, Loriol, Marsanne and Montélimar); - in the department of Ardèche, in the arrondissement of Tournon and the cantons of Antraigues, Buzet, Coucouron, Montpezat-sous-Bauzon, PrVs, Saint-Etienne de Lugdarès, Saint-Pierreville, Valgorge and la Voulte-sur-Rhône; (b) in Spain, in the provinces of Asturias, Cantabria, Guipúzcoa, La Coruña and Vizcaya; (c) in Portugal, in that part of the region of Norte which corresponds to the designated wine area of %quot%Vinho Verde%quot% as well as the %quot%Concelhos de Bombarral, Laurinhã, Mafra e Torres Vedras%quot% (with the exception of %quot%Freguesias da Carvoeira e Dois Portos%quot%), belonging to the %quot%Região viticola da Extremadura%quot%. 4.
In Italy, wine-growing zone C 1 b) comprises the areas under vines in the Valle d'Aosta region and in the provinces of Sondrio, Bolzano, Trento and Belluno. 5.
Wine-growing zone C II comprises: (a) in France, the areas under vines: - in the following departments: Aude, Bouches-du-Rhône, Gard, Hérault, Pyrénées-Orientales (except for the cantons of Olette and Arles-sur-Tech), Vaucluse; - in the part of the department of Var bounded in the south by the northern limit of the communes of Evenos, Le Beausset, Solliès-Toucas, Cuers, Puget-Ville, Collobrières, La Garde-Freinet, Pland-de-la-Tour and Sainte-Maxime; - in the arrondissement of Nyons and the cantons of Dieulefit, Loirol, Marsanne and Montélimar in the department of Drôme; - in those parts of the department of Ardèche not listed in point 3(a); (b) in Italy, the areas under vines in the following regions: Abruzzi, Campagnia, Emilia-Romagna, Friuli-Venezia Giulia, Lazio, Liguria, Lombardy except for the province of Sondrio, Marche, Molise, Piedmont, Tuscany, Umbria Veneto except for the province of Belluno, including the islands belonging to those regions, such as Elba and the other islands of the Tuscan archipelago, the Ponziane islands, Capri and Ischia; (c) in Spain, the areas under vines: - in the following provinces: - Lugo, Orense, Pontevedra, - Ávilla (except for the communes which correspond to the designated wine %quot%comarca%quot% of Cebreros), Burgos, León, Palencia, Salamanca, Segovia, Soria, Valladolid, Zamora, - La Rioja, - Álava, - Navarra, - Huesca, - Barcelona, Gerona, Lérida; - in that part of the province of Zaragoza which lies to the north of the river Ebro; - in those communes of the province of Tarragona included in the Penedés registered designation of origin. - in that part of the province of Tarragona which corresponds to the designated wine %quot%comarca%quot% of Conca de Barberá. 6.
In Greece, wine-growing zone C III a) comprises the area under vines in the following nomoi: Florina, Imathia, Kilkis, Grevena, Larisa, Ioannina, Levkas, Achaca, Messinia, Arkadia, Korinthia, Iraklio, Khania, Rethimni, Samos, Lasithi and the island of Thira (Santorini). 7.
Wine-growing zone C III b) comprises: (a) in France, the areas under vines: - in the departments of Corsica; - in that part of the department of Var situated between the sea and a line bounded by the communes (which are themselves included) of Evenos, Le Beausset, Solliès-Toucas, Cuers, Puget-Ville, Collobrières, La Garde-Freinet, Plan-de-la-Tour and Sainte-Maxime; - in the cantons of Olette and Arles-sur-Tech in the department of Pyrénées-Orientales; (b) in Italy, the areas under vines in the following regions: Calabria, Basilicata, Apulia, Sardinia and Sicily, including the islands belonging to those regions, such as Pantelleria and the Lipari, Egadi and Pelagian Islands; (c) in Greece, the areas under vines not listed in point 6; (d) in Spain, the areas under vines not included in 3(b) or 5(c); (e) in Portugal, the areas under vines in the regions not included in wine-growing zone C I a). 8.
ANNEX IV LIST OF AUTHORISED OENOLOGICAL PRACTICES AND PROCESSES 1.
ANNEX V LIMITS AND CONDITIONS FOR CERTAIN OENOLOGICAL PRACTICES A.
The total sulphur dioxide content of wines, other than sparkling wines and liqueur wines, may, on their release to the market for direct human consumption, not exceed: (a) 160 milligrams per litre for red wines; and (b) 210 milligrams per litre for white and rosé wines. 2.
Where climatic conditions have made this necessary it may be decided that the Member States concerned may, in certain wine-growing zones of the Community, authorise, for wines produced within their territory, the maximum total sulphur dioxide levels of less than 300 milligrams per litre referred to in this point to be increased by a maximum of 40 milligrams per litre. 4.
An increase in natural alcoholic strength by volume may not be authorised in respect of the products referred to in the paragraph 1 unless their minimum natural alcoholic strength by volume is as follows (a) in wine-growing zone A: 5 % vol.; (b) in wine-growing zone B: 6 % vol.; (c) in wine-growing zone C I a): 7,5 % vol.; (d) in wine-growing zone C I b): 8 % vol.; (e) in wine-growing zone C II: 8,5 % vol.; (f) in wine-growing zones C III: 9 % vol. 3.
The increase in natural alcoholic strength by volume shall be achieved by means of the oenological practices referred to in point D and may not exceed the following limits: (a) in wine-growing zone A: 3,5 % vol.; (b) in wine-growing zone B: 2,5 % vol.; (c) in wine-growing zones C: 2 % vol. 4.
In years when climatic conditions have been exceptionally unfavourable, the limits on increases in the alcoholic strength by volume provided for in the paragraph 3 may be raised to the following levels: (a) wine-growing zone A: 4,5 % vol.; (b) wine-growing zone B: 3,5 % vol.
The addition of sucrose provided for in paragraph 1(a) and (b) may only be performed by dry sugaring and only in the wine-growing zones where it is traditionally or exceptionally practised under the legislation in force at 8 May 1970. 4.
The addition of concentrated grape must or rectified concentrated grape must shall not have the effect of increasing the initial volume of fresh crushed grapes, grape must, grape must in fermentation or new wine still in fermentation by more than 11 % in wine-growing zone A, 8 % in wine-growing zone B and 6,5 % in wine-growing zones C. 5.
If paragraph 4 of point C is applied, the limits on increases in volume shall be raised to 15 % in wine-growing zone A and to 11 % in wine-growing zone B. 6.
Fresh grapes, grape must, grape must in fermentation, new wine still in fermentation and wine may be subject to: (a) partial deacidification in wine-growing zones A, B, C I (a) and C I (b); (b) acidification and deacidification in wine-growing zones C II and C III (a), without prejudice to paragraph 3; or (c) acidification in wine-growing zone C III b). 2.
None of the processes referred to in points D and E, with the exception of the acidification and deacidification of wines, shall be authorised unless carried out, under conditions to be determined, at the time when the fresh grapes, grape must, grape must in fermentation or new wine still in fermentation are being turned into wine suitable for yielding table wine, into table wine, or into any other beverage intended for direct human consumption referred to in Article 1(2) other than sparkling wine or aerated sparkling wine in the wine-growing zone where the fresh grapes used were harvested. 2.
The same shall apply to the concentration, acidification and deacidification of wine suitable for yielding table wines. 3.
The same shall apply in respect of the quantities of sucrose, concentrated grape must or rectified concentrated grape must held in the exercise of their profession by natural or legal persons or groups of persons, in particular producers, bottlers, processors and merchants to be determined, at the same time and in the same place as fresh grapes, grape must, grape must in fermentation or wine in bulk.
The expedition liqueur may contain only: - sucrose, - grape must, - grape must in fermentation, - concentrated grape must, - rectified concentrated grape must, - wine, or - a mixture thereof, with the possible addition of wine distillate. 3.
The addition of tirage liqueur may not cause an increase in the total alcoholic strength by volume of the cuvée of more than 1,5 % vol.
Acidification may be carried out only up to a maximum of 1,5 grams per litre, expressed as tartaric acid, i.e. 20 milliequivalents per litre. 9.
In years of exceptional weather conditions, the maximum limit of 1,5 grams per litre or 20 milliequivalents per litre may be raised to 2,5 grams per litre or 34 milliequivalents per litre, provided that the natural acidity of the products is not less than 3 g/l, expressed as tartaric acid, or 40 milliequivalents per litre. 10.
Such fermentation, unless it is intended for processing grapes, grape must or grape must in fermentation directly into sparkling wine, may result only from the addition of tirage liqueur.
Regarding sparkling wines other than quality sparkling wines and quality sparkling wines psr: (a) the total alcoholic strength by volume of the cuvées intended for their preparation shall be not less than 8,5 % vol.; (b) the tirage liqueur intended for their preparation may contain only: - grape must, - grape must in fermentation, - concentated grape must, - rectified concentrated grape must, or - sucrose and wine: (c) without prejudice to Article 44(3), their actual alcoholic strength by volume, including the alcohol contained in any expedition liqueur added, shall be not less than 9,5 % vol.; (d) without prejudice to any more restrictive provisions which Member States may apply to sparkling wines produced on their territory, their total sulphur dioxide content may not exceed 235 milligrams per litre; (e) where climatic conditions have made it necessary in certain wine-growing zones of the Community, the Member States concerned may authorise, for the wines referred to in paragraph 1 in their territory, the total maximum sulphur dioxide content to be increased by up to 40 milligrams per litre, provided that the wine covered by this authorisation is not sent outside the Member State in question.
The total alcoholic strength by volume of the cuvées intended for their preparation shall be not less than 9 % vol., 2.
However, quality sparkling wine of the aromatic type may be produced by using as constituents of the cuvée wines obtained from grapes of the %quot%Prosecco%quot% wine variety harvested in the regions of Trentino-Alto Adige, Veneto and Friuli-Venezia Giulia; (b) control of the fermentation process before and after the constitution of the cuvée may be carried out, for the purpose of making the cuvée sparkling, only by refrigeration or by other physical processes; (c) the addition of an expedition liqueur is prohibited; (d) by way of derogation from point K 4 of Annex VI, the actual alcoholic strength by volume of quality aromatic sparkling wines may not be less than 6 % vol.; (e) the total alcoholic strength of quality aromatic sparkling wines may not be less than 10 % vol.; (f) by way of derogation from the first paragraph of point K.6 of Annex VI, when kept at a temperature of 20 °C in closed containers, quality aromatic sparkling wines must have an excess pressure of not less than 3 bar; (g) by way of derogation from point K.8 of Annex VI, the duration of the process of producing quality aromatic sparkling wines may not be less than one month. 4.
The manufacture of quality sparkling wines is also covered by the rules referred to in - paragraphs 1 to 10 of point H; - paragraphs 4 and 6 to 9 of Annex VI, point K, without prejudice to paragraphs 3(d), (f) and (g) of this point I.
and displaying the characteristics specified by the Community provisions or, in the absence thereof, by the relevant national provisions; (iii) together with one or more of the following products, where appropriate: - partially fermented grape must obtained from raisined grapes; - concentrated grape must obtained by the action of direct heat, complying, with the exception of this operation, with the definition of concentrated grape must; - concentrated grape must; - the product obtained from combining one of the products listed under (ii) with a grape must referred to in the first or fourth indent of paragraph 1. 3.
Without prejudice to any provisions of a more restrictive nature which the Member States may adopt for liqueur wines and quality liqueur wines psr prepared within their territory, such products shall be authorised to undergo the oenological practices and processes referred to in this Regulation. 6.
The following are also authorised: (a) sweetening, subject to a declaration and registration requirement, where the products used have not been enriched with concentrated grape must, by means of: - concentrated grape must or rectified concentrated grape must, provided that the increase in the total alcoholic strength by volume of the wine in question is not more than 3 % vol.; - concentrated grape must or rectified concentrated grape must or partially fermented grape must, obtained from raisined grapes, for products to be listed and provided that the increase in the total alcoholic strength by volume of the wine in question is not more than 8 % vol.; - concentrated grape must or rectified concentrated grape must for wines to be listed and provided that the increase in the total alcoholic strength by volume of the wine in question is not more than 8 % vol.; (b) the addition of alcohol, distillate or spirits, as referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2, in order to compensate for losses due to evaporation during ageing; (c) ageing in vessels at a temperature not exceeding 50 °C, for products to be listed. 7.
Without prejudice to any provisions of a more restrictive nature which the Member States may adopt for liqueur wines and quality liqueur wines psr prepared within their territory, the total sulphur dioxide content of such wines, when released to the market for direct human consumption, may not exceed: (a) 150 mg/l where the residual sugar content is less than 5 g/l; (b) 200 mg/l where the residual sugar content is more than 5 g/l. 8.
However, the appellations: - %quot%Muscadet%quot%, - %quot%Blanquette%quot%, - %quot%Vinho Verde%quot%, - %quot%Cava%quot%, applied to certain quality sparkling wines psr, - %quot%Manzanilla%quot% are recognised as the names of the respective specified regions demarcated and regulated by the relevant Member States before 1 March 1986.
However the Commission may, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 75, authorise the Member State to allow in exceptional cases a percentage of added products higher than 10 %, but not more than 15 %.
The provisions of this point D, other than paragraph 5, shall not apply to quality liqueur wines psr.
Where weather conditions have made it necessary in one of the wine-growing zones referred to in point E, the Member States concerned may permit an increase in the (actual or potential) natural alcoholic strength by volume of fresh grapes, grape must, grape must in fermentation, new wine still in fermentation and wine, suitable for yielding quality wine psr, with the exception of products intended for processing into quality liqueur wine psr.
The increase may not exceed the limits laid down in paragraph 3 of point C of Annex V. 3.
Such authorisation shall not prejudice the possibility of a similar authorisation for table wines as provided for in that paragraph. 4.
The total alcoholic strength by volume of quality wines psr shall not be less than 9 % vol.
behaviour in air 2.
behaviour in cold; B.
behaviour in incubator 4.
alcoholic strength 7.
reducing sugars 9.
volatile acidity 14.
fixed acidity 15.
free sulphur dioxide 17.
total sulphur dioxide; D.
additional analysis 18.
The actual alcoholic strength by volume of quality sparkling wines psr, including the alcohol contained in any expedition liqueur added, shall be not less than 10 % vol. 5.
Without prejudice to any more restrictive provisions which Member States may apply to quality sparkling wines psr produced within their territory, the total sulphur dioxide content of these sparkling wines shall not exceed 185 milligrams per litre.
The duration of the process of making quality sparkling wines psr, including ageing in the undertaking where they are made and reckoned from the start of the fermentation process designed to make the wines sparkling, may not be less than: (a) six months where the fermentation process designed to make the wines sparkling takes place in closed tanks; (b) nine months where the fermentation process designed to make the wines sparkling takes place in the bottles. 9.
The duration of the fermentation process designed to make the cuvée sparkling and the duration of the presence of the cuvée on the lees shall not be less than: - 90 days; - 30 days if the fermentation takes place in containers with stirrers. 10.
The rules set out in Annex V, point H, paragraphs 1 to 10 also apply to quality sparkling wine psr.
The specific, traditional names %quot%οίνος γλυκύς φυσικός%quot%, %quot%vine dulce natural%quot%, %quot%vino dolce naturale%quot% and %quot%vinho dolce natural%quot% shall be used only for quality liqueur wines psr: - obtained from harvests at least 85 % of which are of the wine varieties appearing on a list to be drawn up, - derived from musts with an initial natural sugar content of at least 212 grams per litre, - obtained by adding alcohol, distillate or spirits, as referred to in Annex V, paragraph 2 of point J to the exclusion of any other enrichment. 6.
The specific traditional name %quot%vino generoso%quot% shall be used only for dry quality liqueur wines psr developed under flor and - obtained only from white grapes obtained from the Palomino de Jerez, Palomino fino, Pedro Ximénez, Verdejo, Zalema and Garrido Fino vine varieties, - released to the market after they have been matured for an average of two years in oak barrels.
The name referred to in point 8 may not be translated.
The specific traditional name %quot%vinho generoso%quot% shall be used only for the quality liqueur wines psr %quot%Porto%quot%, %quot%Madeira%quot%, %quot%Moscatel de Setúbal%quot% and %quot%Carcavelos%quot% in association with the respective registered designation of origin. 11.
The specific traditional name %quot%vino generoso de licor%quot% shall be used only for the quality liqueur wine psr: - obtained from %quot%vino generoso%quot%, as referred to in point 8, or from wine under flor capable of producing such a %quot%vino generoso%quot%, to which either partially fermented grape must obtained from raisined grapes or concentrated grape must has been added, - released to the market after it has been matured for an average of two years in oak barrels. 12.
The name referred to in point 11 may not be translated.
Labelling: (a) table wines, table wines with geographical indication and quality wines psr; (b) wines originating in third countries, must include, in addition to the particulars set out in paragraphs 1 and 2, the indication: - the name or corporate name of the bottler, the local administrative area and the Member State or, for containers with a nominal volume of more than 60 litres, the consignor, - for imported wines, the importer or, when bottling took place in the Community, the bottler. 4.
The designation: (a) %quot%liqueur wine%quot% shall be restricted to products conforming to the definition of point 14 of Annex I or, where appropriate, to a definition to be agreed in accordance with the introduction to this Annex; (b) %quot%quality liqueur wine produced in a specified region%quot% or %quot%quality liqueur wine psr%quot% shall be restricted to products conforming to the definition of point 14 of Annex I and the specific provisions of this Regulation; (c) %quot%semi-sparkling wine%quot% shall be restricted to products conforming to the definition of point 17 of Annex I or, where appropriate, to a definition to be agreed in accordance with the introduction to this Annex; (d) %quot%quality semi-sparkling wine produced in a specified region%quot% or %quot%quality semi-sparkling wine psr%quot% shall be restricted to products conforming to the definition of point 17 of Annex I and the specific provisions of this Regulation; (e) %quot%aerated semi-sparkling wine%quot% shall be restricted to products conforming to the definition of point 18 of Annex I or, where appropriate, a definition to be agreed in accordance with the introduction to this Annex. 4.
The information referred to in the second subparagraph may be repeated in one or more other official languages of the Community for products originating in Greece.
Moreover, the holder of a well-known registered brand name for a wine or grape must which contains wording that is identical to the name of a specified region or the name of a geographical unit smaller than a specified region may, even if he is not entitled to use such a name pursuant to point 1, continue to use that brand name where it corresponds to the identity of its original holder or of the original provider of the name, provided that the brand name was registered at least 25 years before the official recognition of the geographical name in question by the producer Member State in accordance with the relevant Community provisions as regards quality wines psr and that the brand name has actually been used without interruption.
The Council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission before 31 December 2002, shall decide whether to extend the time limit referred to in the first subparagraph of paragraph 2. 4.
Such labelling shall be in accordance with the provisions of this Regulation; this also applies to labelled containers of a nominal volume of more than 60 litres. 2.
Derogations from point 1 may be decided upon. 3.
The preceding subparagraph shall be implemented by means of agreements with the third countries concerned, negotiated and concluded in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 133 of the Treaty. (1) OJ L 186, 30.6.1989, p. 21.
ANNEX VIII DESCRIPTION, DESIGNATION, PRESENTATION AND PROTECTION OF SPARKLING WINES A.
This Annex lays down general rules for the description and presentation of: (a) the sparkling wines defined in point 15 of Annex I, produced in the Community; (b) the aerated sparkling wines defined in point 16 of Annex I, originating in the Community; (c) the sparkling wines defined in accordance with this Regulation by the procedure in Article 75, originating in third countries; (d) the aerated sparkling wines defined in accordance with this Regulation by the procedure in Article 75, originating in third countries.
The sparkling wines referred to in (a) shall comprise: - the sparkling wines referred to in point H of Annex V, - the quality sparkling wines referred to in point I of Annex V, and - the quality sparkling wines produced in specified regions (quality sparkling wines psr) referred to in point K of Annex VI. 2.
In the case of the products referred to in paragraph 1(a) and (b) of point A, the description on the labelling shall include, in addition to the information specified in paragraph 1: - the name or business name of the producer or of a vendor established in the Community, and - the names of the local administrative area or part of such area, and Member State in which the abovementioned person's head office is situated, in accordance with paragraphs 4 and 5 of point D.
In the case of the products referred to in paragraph 1(c) and (d) of point A, the description on the labelling shall include the following information in addition to the information specified in paragraph 1: (a) the name or business name of the importer and the names of the local administrative area and Member State in which the importer's head office is situated; (b) the name or business name of the producer and the names of the local administrative area and third country in which the producer's head office is situated, in accordance with paragraphs 4 and 5 of point D. 4.
The description on the labelling shall include additional information in the following cases: - in the case of products produced from wines originating in third countries, as referred to in the sixth indent of point 15 of Annex I, the description on the labelling shall indicate that the product has been produced from imported wines and shall specify the third country in which the wine used in constituting the cuvée originated, - in the case of quality sparkling wines psr, the name of the specified region in which the grapes used to make the product were harvested shall be given on the labelling, - in the case of quality sparkling wines of the aromatic type referred to in paragraph 10 of point K 10 of Annex VI, the description on the labelling shall include either the name of the vine variety from which they were obtained or the words %quot%produced from aromatic varieties of grape%quot%.
In the case of the products referred to in paragraph 1 of point A, the description on the labelling may be supplemented by other particulars, provided that: - they are not liable to mislead the persons for whom the information is intended, particularly as regards the mandatory information specified in point B and the optional information specified in point E, - where appropriate, the provisions of point E are observed. 2.
For the purposes of monitoring and control in the sparkling wine sector, the competent authorities on the matter may, with due regard to the general rules of procedure adopted by each Member State, require of the producer or vendor referred to in the first indent of the first subparagraph of paragraph 2 of point B, proof of the accuracy of the information, used for the description concerning the nature, identity, quality, composition, origin or provenance of the product concerned or of the products used in its production.
Product type as determined by the sugar content referred to in paragraph 1(c) of point B shall be indicated by one of the following terms understandable in the Member State or third country of destination in which the product is offered for direct human consumption: - %quot%brut nature%quot%, %quot%naturherb%quot%, %quot%bruto natural%quot%, %quot%pas dosé%quot%, %quot%dosage zéro%quot% or %quot%dosaggio zero%quot%: if its sugar content is less than 3 grams per litre; these terms may be used only for products to which no sugar has been added after the secondary fermentation; - %quot%extra brut%quot%, %quot%extra herb%quot% or %quot%extra bruto%quot%: if its sugar content is between 0 and 6 grams per litre; - %quot%brut%quot%, %quot%herb%quot% or %quot%bruto%quot%: if its sugar content is less than 15 grams per litre; - %quot%extra dry%quot%, %quot%extra trocken%quot% or %quot%extra seco%quot%: if its sugar content is between 12 and 20 grams per litre; - %quot%sec%quot%, %quot%trocken%quot%, %quot%secco%quot% or %quot%asciutto%quot%, %quot%dry%quot%, %quot%tør%quot%, %quot%ξηρός%quot%, %quot%seco%quot%, %quot%torr%quot% or %quot%kuiva%quot%: if its sugar content is between 17 and 35 grams per litre; - %quot%demi-sec%quot%, %quot%halbtrocken%quot%, %quot%abboccato%quot%, %quot%medium dry%quot%, %quot%halvtør%quot%, %quot%ημίξηρος%quot%, %quot%semi seco%quot%, %quot%meio seco%quot%, %quot%halvtorr%quot% or %quot%puolikuiva%quot%: if its sugar content is between 33 and 50 grams per litre; - %quot%doux%quot%, %quot%mild%quot%, %quot%dolce%quot%, %quot%sweet%quot%, %quot%sød%quot%, %quot%γλυκύς%quot%, %quot%dulce%quot%, %quot%doce%quot%, %quot%söt%quot% or %quot%makea%quot%: if its sugar content is greater than 50 grams per litre.
The name or business name of the producer and the names of the local administrative area, or part of such area, and State in which the producer's head office is situated shall be given: - either in full, - or in the case of products produced in the Community, in code provided that the name or business name of the person or group of persons other than the producer involved in the commercial distribution of the product, and the local administrative area, or part of such area, and Member State in which the head office of such person or group is situated, are given in full. 5.
The name of a geographical unit other than a specified region, and smaller than a Member State or a third country, may be used only to supplement the description of: - a quality sparkling wine psr, - a quality sparkling wine to which the implementing provisions have given the name of such a geographical unit, or - as sparkling wine originating in a third country the conditions for whose production are recognised as equivalent to those laid down in point I of Annex V for a quality sparkling wine bearing the name of a geographical unit.
Use of such a name shall be allowed only if: (a) it conforms to the rules of the Member State or third country in which the sparkling wine was produced; (b) the geographical unit in question is defined exactly; (c) all the grapes from which the product was obtained came from that geographical unit, with the exception of the products contained in tirage liqueur or expedition liqueur; (d) in the case of a quality sparkling wine psr, the geographical unit is situated within the specified region whose name the wine bears; (e) in the case of quality sparkling wines, the name of that geographical unit is not laid down for describing a quality sparkling wine psr.
Notwithstanding clause (c) of the second subparagraph, Member States may authorise use of the name of a geographical unit smaller than a specified region to supplement the description of a quality sparkling wine psr if at least 85 % of the product was obtained from grapes harvested in that unit. 2.
This provision shall not, however, apply to sparkling wines of the aromatic type referred to in paragraph 3 of point I of Annex V or paragraph 10 of point K of Annex VI.
The expression %quot%bottle-fermented%quot% may be used only to describe: - a quality sparkling wine psr, - a quality sparkling wine, or - a sparkling wine originating in a third country the conditions for whose production are recognised as equivalent to those laid down in point I of Annex V or in point K of Annex VI.
Use of the expression referred to in the first subparagraph shall be allowed only if: (a) the product was made sparkling by a second alcoholic fermentation in the bottle; (b) the length of the production process, including ageing in the undertaking where the product was made, reckoned from the start of the fermentation process designed to make the cuvée sparkling, has not been less than nine months; (c) the process of fermentation designed to make the cuvée sparkling and the presence of the cuvée on the lees lasted at least 90 days; (d) the product was separated from the lees by filtering in accordance with the racking method or by disgorging. 4.
The expressions %quot%bottle-fermented by the traditional method%quot%or %quot%traditional method%quot% or %quot%classical method%quot% or %quot%classical traditional method%quot% and any expressions resulting from a translation of them may be used only to describe: - a quality sparkling wine psr, - a quality sparkling wine, or - a sparkling wine originating in a third country the conditions for whose production are recognised as equivalent to those laid down in point I of Annex V or in point K of Annex VI.
Use of one of the expressions referred to in the first subparagraph shall be allowed only if the product: (a) was made sparkling by a second alcoholic fermentation in the bottle; (b) stayed without interruption in contact with the lees for at least nine months in the same undertaking from the time when the cuvée was constituted; (c) was separated from the lees by disgorging. 5.
An expression relating to a method of production which includes the name of a specified region or of another geographical unit, or a term derived from either of these, may be used only to describe: - a quality sparkling wine psr, - a quality sparkling wine, or - a sparkling wine originating in a third country the conditions for whose production are recognised as equivalent to those laid down in point 1 of Annex V or in point K of Annex VI.
The vintage year may be used only in the description of: - a quality sparkling wine psr, - a quality sparkling wine, or - a sparkling wine originating in a third country the conditions for whose production are recognised as equivalent to those laid down in point I of Annex V or in point K of Annex VI.
Reference to the vintage year shall be allowed only if at least 85 % of the product was obtained from grapes harvested in the year in question, with the exception of the products contained in tirage liqueur or expedition liqueur.
However, Member States may prescribe that the vintage year may be given for quality sparkling wines psr produced in their territory only if the product was obtained entirely from grapes harvested in the year in question, with the exception of the products contained in tirage liqueur or expedition liqueur. 8.
Reference to superior quality shall be allowed only in the case of: - a quality sparkling wine psr, - a quality sparkling wine, or - a sparkling wine originating in a third country the conditions for whose production are recognised as equivalent to those laid down in point I of Annex V or in point K of Annex VI. 9.
The name of a Member State or of a third country, or the adjective derived from that name, may not be used in combination with the sales description referred to in paragraph 2 of point D, unless the product is produced in the territory of that Member State or third country and is made exclusively from grapes harvested and processed into wine in that same territory. 10.
The description of a product referred to in paragraph 1 of point A may not be supplemented by a reference or symbol relating to a medal or prize obtained after taking part in a competition, or to any other distinction, unless they have been awarded, by an official body or a body officially recognised for the purpose, to a given quantity of the product in question. 11.
The terms %quot%Premium%quot% or %quot%Reserve%quot% may be used only to supplement: - the term %quot%quality sparkling wine%quot%, or - one of the terms referred to in paragraph 2(c) of point D.
Where necessary, the implementing provisions may lay down: (a) conditions for the use of: - the expression referred to in paragraph 8, - terms relating to a manufacturing method other than those referred to in paragraphs 3 to 6, - expressions referring to the specific characteristics of the vine varieties from which the product in question is made; (b) a list of the expressions referred to at (a).
Languages which may be used for labelling The information specified: - in point B shall be given in one or more of the official languages of the Communities so that the final consumer can easily understand each of these items of information, - in point C shall be given in one or more of the official languages of the Communities.
The products referred to in paragraph 1 of point A may be held for sale or put on the market only in glass bottles which: (a) are closed with: - a mushroom-shaped stopper made of cork or other material permitted to come into contact with foodstuffs, held in place by a fastening, covered, if necessary, by a cap and sheathed in foil completely covering the stopper and all or part of the neck of the bottle, - any other suitable closure in the case of bottles with a nominal content not exceeding 0,20 litres, and (b) bear labelling conforming to the provisions of this Regulation.
In accordance with rules to be specified, only the following may be put up in %quot%sparkling wine%quot%-type or similar bottles fitted with closing devices as referred to in paragraph 1(a) with a view to sale, placing on the market or export: - the products as referred to in paragraph 1 of point A, - beverages which are traditionally put up in such bottles and which: - comply with the definitions of semi-sparkling wine or aerated semi-sparkling wine as referred to in points 17 and 18 of Annex I, or - are obtained by alcoholic fermentation of a fruit or of another agricultural raw material, in particular the products referred to in paragraph 2 of point C of Annex VII and the products covered by Regulation (EEC) No 1601/91, laying down general rules on the definition, description and presentation of aromatised wines, wine-based drinks and aromatised wine-product cocktails(1), or - have an actual alcoholic strength by volume not greater than 1,2 % vol., - products which are not likely, despite the fact that they are put up in this way, to create confusion or mislead consumers with regard to the real nature of the product. 3.
Without prejudice to paragraph 5, where the packaging of a product referred to in paragraph 1 of point A bears one or more items of information referring to the product packed in it, such items of information must comply with the provision of this Regulation. 5.
Where containers containing a product referred to in paragraph 1 of point A are presented for sale to the final consumer in a package, it must be labelled in accordance with this Regulation.
Where the description, presentation and advertising of the products referred to in paragraph 1 of point A are supplemented by brand names, such brand names may not contain any words, syllables, signs or illustrations which: (a) are likely to cause confusion or mislead the persons to whom they are addressed within the meaning of Article 48; or (b) are liable to be confused with all or part of the description of a table wine, a quality wine produced in a specified region, including a quality sparkling wine psr or an imported wine whose description is governed by Community provisions or with the description of any other product referred to in paragraph 1 of point A, or are identical to the description of any such product, unless the products used for constituting the cuvée of the sparkling wine in question are entitled to such description or presentation. 2.
Provisions for the implementation of paragraph 5 shall be adopted, as well as derogations concerning marking on the cork referred to in the first subparagraph of paragraph 5, where, on the occasion of a check by the competent authority, a sparkling wine is not recognised as a quality sparkling wine psr. (1) OJ L 149, 14.6.1991, p. 1.
