This Regulation lays down detailed rules for the application of Article 70 of Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999 with regard to accompanying documents for the carriage of wine products without prejudice to the application of Directive 92/12/EEC.
TITLE I Accompanying documents for the carriage of wine products Article 3 1.
The following shall be recognised as accompanying documents: (a) for products subject to the formalities regarding movement laid down by Directive 92/12/EEC: - in the case of release into circulation with the suspension of excise duty, an administrative or commercial document drawn up in accordance with Regulation (EEC) No 2719/92, - in the case of intra-Community movement and release for consumption in the Member State of dispatch, a simplified accompanying document or a commercial document completed in accordance with Regulation (EEC) No 3649/92; (b) for products not subject to the formalities regarding movement laid down by Directive 92/12/EEC, each document containing as a minimum the information referred to in paragraph 1, as well as any additional information required by the Member States and drawn up in accordance with this Title. 3.
Where an accompanying document is completed to accompany a consignment of a wine product in containers of a nominal volume of more than 60 litres, the reference number of the document must be assigned by the competent authority whose name and address are indicated thereon.
For all carriage within the customs territory of the Community of third country products released into free circulation, the accompanying document shall include: - the number of the VI 1 document, completed in accordance with Commission Regulation (EEC) No 883/2001(10), - the date on which the document was completed, - the name and address of the authority of the third country having completed the document or authorised its completion by a producer. 3.
Where a document conforming to Regulation (EEC) No 2719/92 or Regulation (EEC) No 3649/92 is used, it shall, in addition, contain all the information laid down in Article 3(1) of this Regulation.
A single accompanying document may be completed to accompany the transport in a single consignment from one and the same consignor to one and the same consignee of: - two or more batches of the same category of product, or - two or more batches of different categories of product provided they are put up in labelled containers of a nominal volume of 60 litres or less and fitted with a recognised non-reusable closing device bearing an indication enabling the bottler to be identified. 3.
In the case referred to in Article 5(1) or where the document accompanying the consignment is completed by the competent authority, the document shall be valid only if transport commences not later than the fifth working day following the date of validation or the date on which it is completed, as appropriate. 4.
The competent authorities of each Member State may permit consignors satisfying the conditions set out in paragraph 3 to fill in themselves, or have pre-printed, the certification of designation of origin or of provenance on the accompanying document, provided such certification: (a) is validated in advance by the stamp of the competent authority, the signature of the person responsible and the date, or (b) is validated by the consignors themselves by means of a special stamp authorised by the competent authority and conforming to the model set out in Annex IV; the stamp may be pre-printed on the forms provided they are printed by a print-shop approved for that purpose. 3.
They may cancel the authorisation, in particular where consignors no longer meet the requirements laid down in the first subparagraph or no longer offer the guarantees required. 4.
Article 9 If during transport, by reason of force majeure or some unforeseen accident, a consignment for which an accompanying document is required must be split up or is wholly or partially lost, the carrier shall request the competent authority where the incident or the case of force majeure took place to make a statement of the facts.
Article 10 For the carriage of a quantity of more than 60 litres of one of the unpackaged wine products listed below, the document specified for the consignment and a copy thereof using NCR or carbon paper or any other form of copy authorised by the competent authority shall be required: (a) products of Community origin: - wine suitable for yielding table wine, - wine intended to be processed into quality wine psr, - grape must in fermentation, - concentrated grape must, whether or not rectified, - fresh grape must with fermentation arrested by the addition of alcohol, - grape juice, - concentrated grape juice, - table grapes intended for processing into products other than those referred to in Article 42(5) of Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999; (b) products not originating in the Community: - fresh grapes, excluding table grapes, - grape must, - concentrated grape must, - grape must in fermentation, - concentrated grape must, whether or not rectified, - fresh grape must with fermentation arrested by the addition of alcohol, - grape juice, - concentrated grape juice, - liqueur wine for the preparation of products not falling within CN code 2204.
The same shall apply to the following products, irrespective of their origin and the quantity transported, without prejudice to the exceptions referred to in Article 4: - wine lees, - grape marc intended for distillation or another form of industrial processing, - piquette, - wine fortified for distillation, - wine from grapes of varieties not listed as wine grape varieties in the classification drawn up by the Member States under Article 19 of Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999 for the administrative unit in which they were harvested, - products which may not be offered or delivered for direct human consumption.
TITLE II Records Article 11 1.
Persons required to keep records shall record the entry and withdrawal of each batch of products as referred to in paragraph 1 to or from their premises and such of the operations specified in Article 14(1) as are carried out.
For every entry or withdrawal of products the records shall give: - the control number of the product where such a number is required under Community or national provisions, - the date of the operation, - the actual quantity entered or withdrawn, - the product concerned, described in accordance with the relevant Community and national provisions, - a reference to the document which accompany or accompanied the consignment in question.
The records shall mention the following operations: - increasing the alcoholic strength, - acidification, - de-acidification, - sweetening, - blending, - bottling, - distillation, - the production of sparkling wine, aerated sparkling wine, semi-sparkling wine and aerated semi-sparkling wine, - the production of liqueur wine, - the production of concentrated grape must, whether or not rectified, - treatment with oenological carbon, - treatment with potassium ferrocyanide, - fortifying wine for distillation, - other processes involving the addition of alcohol, - processing into a product of any other category, in particular into aromatised wine. - treatment by electrodialysis.
For each of the operations specified in paragraph 1, records other than those referred to in paragraph 3 shall mention: - the operation carried out and the date, - the nature and the quantities of the products used, - the quantity of product obtained by means of the operation, - the quantity of product used in increasing the alcoholic strength, acidification and de-acidification, sweetening and fortifying for distillation, - the description of the products before and after the operation, in accordance with the relevant Community or national rules, - the markings on the containers in which the products entered in the records were contained before the operation and are contained after the operation, - in the case of bottling, the number of bottles filled and their content, - in the case of contract bottling, the name and address of the bottler.
For production of sparkling wine, the records shall show, for each cuvée prepared: - the date of preparation, - the date of bottling for quality sparkling wines and quality sparkling wines psr, - the volume of the cuvée and the description, volume and actual and potential alcoholic strength of each of its constituents, - each of the practices listed in Article 24 of Regulation (EC) No 1622/2000, - the amount of tirage liqueur used, - the amount of expedition liqueur, - the number of bottles obtained, specifying where appropriate the type of sparkling wine, using a term relating to its residual sugar content provided the term appears on the label. 4.
For the production of liqueur wine, the records shall show for each batch: - the date of addition of any of the products listed in point 14 of Annex I.B.b to Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999, - the nature and the volume of the product added.
Holders of records shall be required to keep individual records or accounts of the entry and withdrawal of the following products and materials held by them for whatever purpose, including use on their own premises: - sucrose, - concentrated grape must, - rectified concentrated grape must, - products used for acidification, - products used for de-acidification, - spirits distilled from wine.
The keeping of individual records or accounts shall not provide exemption from the notifications referred to in Annex V.G.5 to Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999. 2.
The individual records or accounts referred to in paragraph 1 shall show separately for each product: (a) in the case of entries: - the name or business name and address of the supplier, referring where appropriate to the document which accompanied transport of the product, - the quantity concerned, - the date of entry; (b) in the case of withdrawals: - the quantity concerned, - the date of use or withdrawal, - where appropriate, the name or business name and address of the consignee.
The entries in the individual records or accounts: - as referred to in Articles 11, 12 and 13, shall be made, in the case of entries, not later than the working day following reception and, in the case of withdrawals, not later than the third working day following dispatch, - as referred to in Article 14, shall be made not later than the first working day following the operation and, in the case of enrichment, on the day itself, - as referred to in Article 15, shall be made, in the case of entries and withdrawals, not later than the working day following reception or dispatch and, in the case of use, on the day of use.
TITLE III General and transitional provisions Article 18 1.
Without prejudice to Article 21 of Directive 92/12/EEC, Member States may not prohibit or hinder the movement of products put up in containers of a nominal capacity of not more than five litres as referred to in Article 4(2)(a) on grounds relating to the closing devices used, where the closing device or type of packaging used appears on the list in Annex I.
However, the Italian version of Article 4(2) of Regulation (EEC) No 2238/93 shall remain in force in Italy until 30 September 2001.
Article 22 Article 4(2) of this Regulation shall enter into force in Italy on 1 October 2001.
Article 23 This Regulation shall enter into force on the third day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Done at Brussels, 24 April 2001.
For the Commission Franz Fischler Member of the Commission (1) OJ L 179, 14.7.1999, p. 1. (2) OJ L 328, 23.12.2000, p. 2. (3) OJ L 76, 23.3.1992, p. 1. (4) OJ L 193, 29.7.2000, p. 73. (5) OJ L 276, 19.9.1992, p. 1. (6) OJ L 198, 7.8.1993, p. 5. (7) OJ L 369, 18.12.1992, p. 17. (8) OJ L 200, 10.8.1993, p. 10. (9) OJ L 188, 21.7.1999, p. 33. (10) See page 1 of this Official Journal. (11) OJ L 194, 31.7.2000, p. 45. (12) OJ L 316, 15.12.2000, p. 16. (13) OJ L 302, 19.10.1992, p. 1. (14) OJ L 253, 11.10.1993, p. 1. (15) OJ L 166, 5.7.1996, p. 14. (16) OJ L 194, 31.7.2000, p. 1.
ANNEX I List of closing devices approved in the Community for small containers filled with wine products as referred to in Article 2(h) 1.
This technological structure must be rendered unusable again once opened and may be made of: - aluminium, - metal alloy, - shrink plastic, - PVC with aluminium top. - food-grade wax, whether or not covered with other inert substances. 2.
Plastic screw-top capsules. 6.
Tear-off caps made of: - aluminium, - plastic, - a combination of the above. 7.
Closing devices which form part of packaging which cannot be reused after being opened, such as: - tin cans, - aluminium cans, - cardboard containers, - plastic containers, - containers made of a combination of the above materials, - flexible plastic bags, - flexible bags in a combination of aluminium and plastic, - tetrahedrons in aluminium foil.
General rules 1.
Without prejudice to the Community provisions laying down limits for certain wine products, the following tolerances shall be allowed: - as regards total or actual alcoholic strength, a tolerance of ± 0,2 % vol., - as regards density, a tolerance of six units more or less to the fourth decimal place (± 0,0006), - as regards the sugar content, ± 3 %. 2.
A tolerance of 1,5 % of the total net quantity may be allowed when indicating the quantity of products carried in bulk. 3.
Other indications for the carriage of products in bulk: 3.1.
Wine-growing zone Give the wine-growing zone in which the product transported originates in accordance with Annex III to Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999, using the following abbreviations: A, B, CI(a), CI(b), CII, CIII(a) and CIII(b). 3.2.
Operations performed Indicate also the operations which the products transported have undergone, using the following figures in brackets: 0: the product has undergone none of the following operations; 1: the product has been enriched; 2: the product has been acidified; 3: the product has been de-acidified; 4: the product has been sweetened; 5: the product has been fortified for distillation; 6: a product originating in a geographical unit other than that indicated in the description has been added to the product; 7: a product obtained from a vine variety other than that indicated in the description has been added to the product; 8: a product harvested during a year other than that indicated in the description has been added to the product; 9: other operations (specify).
Examples: - for a wine originating in zone B which has been enriched, indicate B(1), - for a grape must originating in zone CIII(b) which has been acidified, indicate CIII(b)(2).
Information required to complete the accompanying document referred to in Article 3(3) of this Regulation (Annex III) %gt%TABLE%gt% ANNEX III Commercial document to accompany of wine products %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2001128EN.005102.EPS%quot%%gt% ANNEX IV SPECIAL STAMP %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2001128EN.005302.EPS%quot%%gt% 1.
