Article 2 Evaluation subjects 1.
In addition, the Article 36 Committee shall decide the frequency of each evaluation exercise. 2.
The Commission shall be fully involved in the preparatory work. 3.
Article 3 Designation of experts 1.
Each Member State shall send the General Secretariat of the Council, at the Presidency's initiative, and no later than four weeks after the date on which the Article 36 Committee decides to start an evaluation on a specific subject, the names of one to three experts having substantial experience of the subject to which the evaluation relates in the field of combating terrorism and who are prepared to participate in at least one evaluation exercise. 2.
The Presidency shall draw up a list of the experts designated by the Member States and shall forward it to the Article 36 Committee or to the Working Party designated for the purpose.
The names of the experts chosen to make up each evaluation team shall be notified to the Article 36 Committee or to the Working Party designated for the purpose.
Article 6 Evaluation visit No later than six weeks after receiving the reply to the questionnaire, where it is considered appropriate, the evaluation team shall travel to that Member State, with a view to clarifying the replies to the questionnaire, with a programme of visits arranged by the Member State visited on the basis of the evaluation team's proposal, for interviews with the political, administrative, police, customs and judicial authorities and any other relevant body.
Article 7 Preparation of the draft report No later than 15 days after receiving the replies to the questionnaire or after the visit referred to in Article 6 if such a visit has taken place, the evaluation team shall draw up a concise draft report and submit it to the Member State evaluated, which shall give its opinion within six weeks.
Article 8 Discussion and adoption of the report 1.
The Presidency shall forward the draft report, which shall be confidential, to the members of the Article 36 Committee or to the Working Party designated for the purpose, together with any of the comments by the Member State evaluated which were not accepted by the evaluation team. 2.
The meeting of the Article 36 Committee or the Working Party designated for the purpose shall begin with a presentation of the draft report by the members of the evaluation team.
The Article 36 Committee or the Working Party designated for the purpose shall then discuss the draft report and adopt its conclusions by consensus. 3.
Article 9 Confidentiality 1.
Article 10 Review of the mechanism No later than at the end of the first evaluation of all the Member States, the Council shall examine the detailed rules and scope of the mechanism and shall, if appropriate, make adjustments to this Decision.
Article 11 Date of effect This Decision shall take effect on the day of its publication in the Official Journal.
Article 12 Publication This Decision shall be published in the Official Journal.
Done at Brussels, 28 November 2002.
Haarder (1) OJ C 151, 25.6.2002, p. 14. (2) Opinion delivered on 24 September 2002 (not yet published in the Official Journal). (3) OJ L 344, 15.12.1997, p. 7.
