CHAPTER 2 TECHNICAL AND STATISTICAL DATA Article 3 Gathering and access 1.
Article 4 Obligation to transmit counterfeit notes for identification 1.
Paragraph 2 shall be applied in such a way that it does not prevent suspected counterfeit notes from being used or retained as evidence in criminal proceedings. 4.
The European Central Bank shall communicate the results to Europol, in accordance with the agreement referred to in Article 3(3).
Article 5 Obligation to transmit counterfeit coins for identification 1.
Paragraph 2 shall be applied in such a way that it does not prevent suspected counterfeit coins from being used or retained as evidence in criminal proceedings. 4.
The European Central Bank shall communicate those results to Europol, in accordance with the agreement referred to in Article 3(3).
CHAPTER 3 OBLIGATIONS AND SANCTIONS Article 6 Obligations of credit institutions 1.
CHAPTER 4 COOPERATION AND MUTUAL ASSISTANCE Article 7 Cooperation to protect the euro against counterfeiting 1.
Within the framework of mutual assistance, the national central offices referred to in Article 12 of the Geneva Convention and the European Central Bank and, where necessary, the Commission shall, within the framework of their respective powers and without prejudice to the role of Europol, make provision for a system for the communication of technical data (early warning).
Article 8 Centralisation of information at national level 1.
Member States shall ensure that, as soon as any case of counterfeiting is detected, information at national level is communicated to the national central office with a view to its being forwarded to Europol through the Europol national unit. 2.
Article 9 External relations 1.
CHAPTER 5 FINAL PROVISIONS Article 10 Competent national authorities 1.
Article 11 Unauthorised notes As far as possible the provisions laid down in Articles 3, 4, 7, 8 and 9 shall apply to notes denominated in euro which have been produced with the use of lawful facilities or equipment in violation of the provisions in accordance with which the competent authorities may issue currency, or uttered in violation of the conditions in accordance with which the competent authorities may utter currency and without the consent of those authorities.
Article 12 Applicability Articles 1 to 11 shall have effect in those Member States which have adopted the euro as their single currency.
Article 13 Entry into force This Regulation shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
It shall apply from 1 January 2002.
Done at Luxembourg, 28 June 2001.
