Where an essential element is lacking, the Council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission, may take appropriate steps with regard to any pre-accession assistance. (4) The EC-Turkey Association Council decided that the implementation of the Accession Partnership for Turkey will be monitored by the Association Agreement bodies as appropriate. (5) The Commission's 2000 regular report presented an objective analysis on Turkey's preparations for membership and identified a number of priority areas for further work. (6) In order to prepare for membership, Turkey should prepare a national programme for the adoption of the acquis.
Article 2 The implementation of the Accession Partnership shall be monitored in the Association Agreement bodies as appropriate and through the competent Council bodies to which the Commission shall report regularly.
Article 3 This Decision shall take effect on the third day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Done at Brussels, 8 March 2001.
Larsson (1) OJ L 58, 28.2.2001, p. 1.
ANNEX TURKEY: 2000 ACCESSION PARTNERSHIP 1.
INTRODUCTION The European Council in Helsinki (10 and 11 December 1999) welcomed the positive developments in Turkey as well as its intention to continue its reform towards complying with the Copenhagen criteria.
In full compliance with this approach, the Commission proposed on 26 July 2000 a regulation for the establishment of a single framework for coordinating all sources of EU financial assistance to Turkey for pre-accession and in particular on the establishment of an Accession Partnership.
This framework regulation for Turkey is modelled on the Regulation for the 10 central and eastern European candidate countries. (Council Regulation (EC) No 622/98 (OJ L 85, 20.3.1998, p. 1).
OBJECTIVES The purpose of the Accession Partnership is to set out in a single framework the priority areas for further work identified in the Commission's 2000 regular report on the progress made by Turkey towards membership of the European Union, the financial means available to help Turkey implement these priorities and the conditions which will apply to that assistance.
This Accession Partnership provides the basis for a number of policy instruments, which will be used to help the candidate States in their preparations for membership.
Regional policy and coordination of structural instruments - Prepare a NUTS classification in accordance with Community rules. - Adopt a strategy for the development of an effective regional policy. - Start introducing regional policy criteria in the selection of projects in Turkey's planning process.
Justice and home affairs (JHA) - Develop training programmes on Community law and on the implementation of the JHA acquis. - Further develop and strengthen JHA institutions with a view in particular to ensuring the accountability of the police. - Adopt the EU acquis in the field of data protection so as to be able to fully participate in the Schengen information system and in Europol. - Start alignment of visa legislation and practice with those of the EU. - Adopt and implement the EU acquis and practices on migration (admission, readmission, expulsion) so as to prevent illegal migrations. - Continue strengthening border management and prepare for full implementation of the Schengen Convention. - Lift the geographical reservation to the 1951 Geneva Convention in the field of asylum and develop accommodation facilities and social support for refugees. - Adopt and implement the EU acquis in the field of corruption, fight against drugs, organised crime, money laundering and judicial cooperation in criminal and civil matters; further intensify international cooperation in those fields.
Reinforcement of administrative and judicial capacity - Complete public administration modernisation reform to ensure efficient management of Community policies, including strengthening border management and preparation of full implementation of the Schengen Convention. - Complete the legislative framework for internal and external financial control; complete the setting-up of a central organisation within the Government for harmonising internal audit/control functions; complete the setting-up of internal audit/control units in spending centres; finalise %quot%functional independence%quot% for national internal controllers/auditors at both central and decentralised levels and ex-ante financial control; issue an audit manual and develop an audit trial for control of EU funds. - Complete territorial reform and develop the concept of regional and municipal management. - Set up operational structures at regional level and reinforce existing administrative structures dealing with regional development. 5.
The first Regulation, adopted in April 2000, foresees EUR 5 million a year during three years in order to implement measures to intensify the EC-Turkey customs union.
The second Regulation, in the process of adoption, relates to the implementation of measures to promote economic and social development in Turkey, and will provide EUR 45 million per year for three years.
In 2000 the repartition is as follows: - 50 % of appropriations will be dedicated for structural and sector reforms aiming in particular at harmonising Turkish legislation and practices with the EU acquis.
Under this allocation, Turkey can also fund part of its participation in Community programmes and agencies including in the fifth research and technical development framework programme (OJ L 26, 1.2.1999, p. 1) and in the areas of education and SMEs. 5.1.
Failure to respect these general conditions could lead to a decision by the Council on the suspension of financial assistance on the basis of Article 4 of the proposed single-framework Regulation. 7.
