Paragraph 2 The Court of Justice of the European Communities (hereinafter called the %quot%Court%quot%) shall submit to the Council eighteen candidates for the posts of Chairman and Vice-Chairmen of the Committee, and thirty-six candidates for the other posts to be filled on the Committee.
Paragraph 3 The President of the Court shall, two months in advance, inform the Governments of the Member States of the date on which the Court intends to draw up the list of candidates to be submitted to the Council.
Paragraph 4 Members of the Court shall choose from the candidates put forward those to be proposed to the Council.
Paragraph 5 Each member appointed by the Council must let the Council know, within thirty days from his appointment, whether he accepts that appointment.
Paragraph 6 Members' appointments shall be renewable.
Article 2 Paragraph 1 The Committee shall be constituted upon acceptance of office by all members who have been appointed.
Paragraph 2 When taking up their duties members of the Committee shall, before the Court and in open court, give a solemn undertaking to perform their duties impartially and conscientiously ; to preserve the secrecy of the deliberations ; and, both during and after their term of office, to respect the obligations arising therefrom, in particular the duty to behave with integrity and discretion as regards the discharge of certain duties or the acceptance of certain benefits.
Article 3 Members of the Committee shall be immune from legal proceedings in respect of acts performed by them in their official capacity, including words spoken or written.
Article 4 No member of the Committee may take part in the settlement of any case in which he has previously taken part as agent or adviser or has acted for one of the parties, or on which he has been called upon to pronounce as a member of a court or of a commission of inquiry or in any other capacity.
Article 5 Paragraph 1 Apart from replacement, or death, the duties of a member of the Committee shall end when he resigns.
Save where paragraph 2 applies, every member shall continue to hold office until his successor takes up his duties.
Paragraph 2 Members of the Committee may be deprived of their office only if, in the unanimous opinion of the Judges and Advocates-general of the Court, they no longer fulfil the requisite conditions or meet the obligations arising from their office.
Paragraph 2 In the event of the absence or inability to attend of the Chairman of the Committee, his duties shall be discharged by the Vice-Chairman with the longest service or by the older of the two if the Vice-Chairmen have each served for an equal number of years.
Article 7 The Council shall, on a proposal from the Court, determine the payments to be made to members of the Committee.
Article 9 The duties of the Registrar of the Committee shall be performed by an official of the Court whom the Court shall, by agreement with the Chairman of the Committee, appoint for this purpose.
Appointment of arbitrators and choice of official languages Article 10 Paragraph 1 Where a dispute is referred to the Committee, a copy of a special agreement between the parties, within the meaning of Articles 20 and 22 of the Treaty establishing the European Atomic Energy Community, shall be communicated to the Chairman of the Committee.
There shall be as many arbitration boards as there are disputes.
Paragraph 2 Notwithstanding their duty to act in place of the Chairman of the Committee in the event of his absence or his inability to attend, the Vice-Chairmen shall preside over the arbitration boards as appointed by the Chairman of the Committee.
Paragraph 3 In circumstances referred to in Article 4 or in any other instance where an arbitrator is prevented from taking part in proceedings, the party who appointed that arbitrator or who, in circumstances referred to in the fourth subparagraph of paragraph 2 of this Article, should have appointed him shall appoint another arbitrator within one month.
The fourth subparagraph of paragraph 2 of this Article shall apply mutatis mutandis.
Paragraph 4 Where an arbitrator is replaced during the proceedings, action shall continue from the stage it had reached at the time when the vacancy occurred.
Article 11 Paragraph 1 By way of derogation from Article 10, the parties may specify by special agreement that their dispute shall be submitted for decision either to one sole arbitrator chosen ad personam (the Chairman of the Committee, a Vice-Chairman or another member) or to an arbitration board consisting, in addition to its Chairman, of four members, each of the parties nominating two members.
Paragraph 2 The special agreement on arbitration shall specify the subjects in dispute, list the questions on which the arbitrators will have to adjudicate, and state the basis used by the parties in deciding the composition of the arbitration board.
Article 12 Proceedings shall be conducted in one of the official languages of the Community.
Conciliation Article 13 Paragraph 1 The arbitration board may at any stage of the proceedings suggest to the parties a conciliation arrangement.
Paragraph 2 If the parties accept the conciliation arrangement, a report giving the terms thereof shall be drawn up and signed by the Chairman of the arbitration board, the Registrar and the parties.
Paragraph 3 If one party does not or both parties do not accept the arrangement and the arbitration board considers it useless to try to obtain the agreement of the parties to different terms, the case shall proceed to adjudication.
Proceedings Article 14 The arbitration board shall decide whether there should be an exchange of written statements before oral hearings.
Article 16 Each party may be represented or assisted by one adviser or more than one.
Article 17 Where the arbitration board considers it advisable, it may make an inspection ; the parties may be present thereat.
Article 18 The arbitration board shall decide how the proceedings shall be conducted and the duration thereof.
Article 19 The hearing shall be conducted by the Chairman of the arbitration board.
Article 20 When the parties have finished explaining their cases, the hearing shall be declared closed.
Article 21 The deliberations of the arbitration board shall be and shall remain secret.
The arbitration board may decide that the award shall be read in open court, the parties being present or having been duly summoned.
Article 23 In accordance with the Treaty establishing the European Atomic Energy Community and with general principles common to the laws of the Member States, the arbitration board shall decide ex aequo et bono.
Budgetary and financial provisions Article 25 Proceedings before the Committee shall be free of charge.
Article 26 Expenses defined as recoverable in Article 73 of the Rules of Procedure of the Court shall be borne by the parties.
If the parties have not agreed on expenses in a special agreement as referred to in Article 10 (1), the arbitration board shall decide on such expenses ex aequo et bono.
Article 27 Expenses which a party has been obliged to incur for the purpose of enforcement shall be reimbursed by the other party in accordance with the scale of charges operative in the State where the enforcement takes place.
Final provisions Article 28 This Regulation may, on a proposal from the Court, be revised and supplemented at any time after the Committee has commenced its duties.
