Article 2 For the purposes of this Directive: (a) ´first Directive' means: Directive 73/239/EEC; (b) ´undertaking': - for the purposes of applying Titles I and II, means: any undertaking which has received official authorization under Article 6 or 23 of the first Directive, - for the purposes of applying Title III and Title V, means: any undertaking which has received official authorization under Article 6 of the first Directive; (c) ´establishment': means the head office, agency or branch of an undertaking, account being taken of Article 3; (d) ´Member State where the risk is situated' means: - the Member State in which the property is situated, where the insurance relates either to buildings or to buildings and their contents, in so far as the contents are covered by the same insurance policy, - the Member State of registration, where the insurance relates to vehicles of any type, - the Member State where the policy-holder took out the policy in the case of policies of a duration of four months or less covering travel or holiday risks, whatever the class concerned, - the Member State where the policy-holder has his habitual residence or, if the policy-holder is a legal person, the Member State where the latter's establishment, to which the contract relates, is situated, in all cases not explicitly covered by the foregoing indents; (e) ´Member State of establishment' means: the Member State in which the establishment covering the risk is situated; (f) ´Member State of provision of services' means: the Member State in which the risk is situated when it is covered by an establishment situated in another Member State.
Article 3 For the purposes of the first Directive and of this Directive, any permanent presence of an undertaking in the territory of a Member State shall be treated in the same way as an agency or branch, even if that presence does not take the form of a branch or agency, but consists merely of an office managed by the undertaking's own staff or by a person who is independent but has permanent authority to act for the undertaking as an agency would.
Article 4 For the purposes of this Directive and the first Directive, general and special policy conditions shall not include specific conditions intended to meet, in an individual case, the particular circumstances of the risk to be covered.
TITLE II Provisions supplementary to the first Directive Article 5 The following is added to Article 5 of the first Directive: ´(d) %quot%large risks'' means: ii(i) risks classified under classes 4, 5, 6, 7, 11 and 12 of point A of the Annex; i(ii) risks classified under classes 14 and 15 of point A of the Annex, where the policy-holder is engaged professionally in an industrial or commercial activity or in one of the liberal professions, and the risks relate to such activity; (iii) risks classified under classes 8, 9, 13 and 16 of point A of the Annex in so far as the policy-holder exceeds the limits of at least two of the following three criteria: first stage: until 31 December 1992: - balance-sheet total: 12,4 million ECU, - net turnover: 24 million ECU, - average number of employees during the financial year: 500.
second stage: from 1 January 1993: - balance-sheet total: 6,2 million ECU, - net turnover: 12,8 million ECU, - average number of employees during the financial year: 250.
Member States may also make provision for the supervisory authorities to obtain any information regarding contracts which are held by intermediaries.' Article 11 1.
Article 21 of the first Directive is hereby deleted. 2.
Each Member State shall, on the conditions laid down by national law, authorize undertakings established within its territory to transfer all or part of their portfolios of contracts concluded in the circumstances referred to in Article 12 (1) to an accepting office established in the Member State of provision of services if the supervisory authorities of the Member State in which the head office of the accepting office is located certify that the latter possesses the necessary margin of solvency after taking the transfer into account. 4.
Each Member State shall, on the conditions laid down by national law, authorize undertakings established within its territory to transfer all or part of their portfolios of contracts concluded in the circumstances referred to in Article 12 (1) to an accepting office established in the same Member State if the supervisory authorities of the Member State in which the head office of the accepting office is located certify that the accepting office possesses the necessary margin of solvency after taking the transfer into account and if it fulfils the conditions in Articles 13 to 16 in the Member State of provision of services. 5.
In the cases referred to in paragraphs 3 and 4, the supervisory authorities of the Member State in which the transferring undertaking is established shall authorize the transfer after obtaining the agreement of the supervisory authorities of the Member State of provision of services. 6.
If a Member State, on the conditions laid down by national law, authorizes undertakings established within its territory to transfer all or part of their portfolios of contracts to an accepting office established in another Member State which is not the Member State of provision of services, it shall ensure that the following conditions are fulfilled: - the supervisory authorities of the Member State in which the head office of the accepting office is located shall certify that the latter possesses the necessary margin of solvency after taking the transfer into account, - the Member State in which the accepting office is established agrees, - the accepting office fulfils the conditions in Articles 13 to 16 in the Member State of provision of services, the law of that Member State provides for the possibility of such a transfer and that Member State agrees to the transfer. 7.
TITLE III Provisions peculiar to the freedom to provide services Article 12 1.
This Title shall not apply to the transactions, undertakings and institutions to which the first Directive does not apply, nor to the risks to be covered by the institutions under public law referred to in Article 4 of that Directive.
This Title shall not apply to insurance contracts covering risks classified under the following numbers of point A of the Annex to the first Directive: - No 1: as regards accidents at work, - No 10: not including carrier's liability, - No 12: as regards motorboats and boats which the Member State concerned makes subject to the same arrangements as land motor vehicles at the time of notification of this Directive, - No 13: as regards nuclear civil liability and pharmaceutical products liability, - Nos 9 and 13: as regards compulsory insurance of building works.
These exclusions will be examined by the Council not later than 1 July 1998. 3.
Article 13 Member States' legislation shall provide that an undertaking established in a Member State may cover within that State, by way of provision of services, at least: - large risks as defined in Article 5 (d) of the first Directive, - risks other than those defined in Article 5 (d) of the first Directive coming within classes for which its establishment there has no authorization.
Article 14 Any undertaking which intends to provide services shall first inform the competent authorities of the head office Member State, and, where appropriate, of the Member State of the establishment concerned, indicating the Member State or Member States within the territory of which it contemplates providing services and the nature of the risks which it proposes to cover.
Those authorities may require provision of the information or proof referred to in Article 9 or 11 of the first Directive.
Subject to the provisions of Article 16, each Member State within the territory of which an undertaking intends to provide services may make access to such activity subject to administrative authorization; to that end, it may require that the undertaking: (a) produce a certificate issued by the competent authorities of the head office Member State attesting that it possesses for its activities as a whole the minimum solvency margin calculated in accordance with Articles 16 and 17 of the first Directive and that the authorization, in accordance with Article 7 (1) of the said Directive, enables the undertaking to operate outside the Member State of establishment; (b) produce a certificate issued by the competent authorities of the Member State of establishment indicating the classes which the undertaking has been authorized to practise and attesting that those authorities do not object to the undertaking providing services; (c) submit a scheme of operations containing the following particulars - the nature of the risks which the undertaking proposes to cover in the Member States of provision of services, - the general and special conditions of the insurance policies which it proposes to use there, - the premium rates which the undertaking envisages applying for each class of business, - the forms and other printed documents which it intends to use in its dealings with policy-holders, in so far as these are also required of established undertakings. 2.
The competent authorities of the Member State of provision of services may require that the particulars referred to in paragraph 1 (c) be supplied to them in the official language of that State. 3.
Any decision to refuse authorization or to refuse a certificate as referred to in paragraph 1 (a) or (b) must be accompanied by the precise grounds and communicated to the undertaking in question. 6.
Each Member State within the territory of which an undertaking intends to provide services covering the risks referred to in Article 5 (d) of the first Directive shall require that the undertaking: (a) produce a certificate issued by the competent authorities of the head office Member State attesting that it possesses for its activites as a whole the minimum solvency margin calculated in accordance with Articles 16 and 17 of the first Directive and that the authorization, in accordance with Article 7 (1) of the said Directive, enables the undertaking to operate outside the Member State of establishment; (b) produce a certificate issued by the competent authorities of the Member State of establishment indicating the classes which the undertaking has been authorized to practice and attesting that those authorities do not object to the undertaking providing services; (c) state the nature of the risks which it proposes to cover in the Member State of provision of services. 2.
This Article shall also apply where the Member State, in the territory of which an undertaking intends to provide services covering risks other than those referred to in Article 5 (d) of the first Directive, does not make access to such activity conditional on administrative authorization.
Where an undertaking referred to in Article 14 intends to extend its activities to risks other than those referred to in Article 5 (d) of the first Directive, it shall follow the procedure described in Articles 14 and 15. 3.
Where an undertaking referred to in Article 14 intends to extend its activities to risks referred to in Article 5 (d) of the first Directive or Article 16 (4) of this Directive, it shall follow the procedure described in Articles 14 and 16.
However, with regard to the risks referred to in Article 5 (d) of the first Directive, Member States shall not lay down provisions requiring approval or systematic notification of general and special policy conditions, scales of premiums, forms and other printed documents which the undertaking intends to use in its dealings with policy-holders.
With regard to the risks referred to in Article 5 (d) of the first Directive, Member States may not retain or introduce prior notification or approval of proposed increases in premium rates except as part of a general price control system.
In the case of risks other than those referred to in Article 5 (d) of the first Directive, such measures shall include withdrawal of the authorization referred to in Article 15.
Any measure adopted pursuant to paragraphs 2 to 6 involving penalties or restrictions on the provision of services must be properly justified and communicated to the undertaking concerned.
In the event of withdrawal of authorization on the basis of Article 22 of the first Directive, the competent authorities of the Member State of provision of services shall be informed of such action and shall take appropriate measures to prevent the establishment concerned from continuing to conclude insurance contracts by way of provision of services within the territory of that State. 9.
Article 20 In the event of an insurance undertaking being wound up, commitments arising from contracts underwritten in the course of the provision of services shall be met in the same way as those arising under that undertaking's other insurance contracts, without distinction of nationality as far as the insured and the beneficiaries are concerned.
The requirements in the first two subparagraphs shall not apply to the risks referred to in Article 5 (d) of the first Directive. 2.
The groups of classes shall be defined as follows: - accident and sickness (1 and 2), - fire and other damage to property (8 and 9), - aviation, marine and transport (3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 11 and 12), - general liability (13), - credit and suretyship (14 and 15), - other classes (16, 17 and 18).
The supervisory authority of each Member State shall forward this information to the supervisory authorities of each of the Member States of provision of services. 2.
Where an establishment earns in a Member State, in respect of the operations referred to in the first subparagraph of paragraph 1, a volume of premiums, without deduction of reinsurance, higher than 2 500 000 ECU, it must keep an underwriting account, comprising the items listed in Annex 2A or 2B, broken down by group of classes for that Member State.
However, where an undertaking, with all its establishments taken together, earns in a Member State, in respect of the operations referred to in the first subparagraph of paragraph 1, a volume of premiums, without deduction of reinsurance, higher than 2 500 000 ECU, the supervisory authority of the Member State of provision of services may ask the supervisory authority of the Member State of the head office that an underwriting account be kept, in future, for the operations effected in its country by each of the establishments of that undertaking.
Article 24 Notwithstanding this Directive, the Member States shall be entitled to require undertakings operating by way of provision of services in their territories to join and participate in any scheme designed to guarantee the payment of insurance claims to policy-holders and injured third parties, on the same terms as established undertakings.
The law applicable to the contract pursuant to Article 7 shall not affect the fiscal arrangements applicable.
The risks which may be covered by way of Community co-insurance within the meaning of Directive 78/473/EEC shall be those defined in Article 5 (d) of the first Directive. 2.
The provisions of this Directive regarding the risks defined in Article 5 (d) of the first Directive shall apply to the leading insurer.
TITLE IV Transitional arrangements Article 27 1.
Portugal, Ireland and Greece - from 1 January 1995 to 31 December 1998 the thresholds of the first stage described in Article 5 (d) (iii) of the first Directive shall apply, - from 1 January 1999 the thresholds of the second stage shall apply.
The derogation allowed from 1 January 1995 shall only apply to contracts covering risks classified under classes 8, 9, 13 and 16 situated exclusively in one of the four Member States benefiting from the transitional arrangements. 2.
Until 31 December 1994, Article 26 (1) of this Directive shall not apply to risks situated in the four Member States listed in this Article.
TITLE V Final provisions Article 28 The Commission and the competent authorities of the Member States shall collaborate closely for the purpose of facilitating the supervision of direct insurance within the Community.
Article 30 Where this Directive makes reference to the ECU, the exchange value in national currencies to be used with effect from 31 December of each year shall be the value which applies on the last day of the preceding October for which exchange values for the ECU are available in all Community currencies.
Article 2 of Directive 76/580/EEC (8) shall apply only to Articles 3, 16 and 17 of the first Directive.
Article 31 Every five years, the Council, acting on a proposal from the Commission, shall review and if necessary amend any amounts expressed in ECU in this Directive, taking into account changes in the economic and monetary situation of the Community.
Article 33 Upon notification of this Directive, Member States shall ensure that the texts of the main laws, regulations or administrative provisions which they adopt in the field covered by this Directive are communicated to the Commission.
Article 34 The Annexes shall form an integral part of this Directive.
Article 35 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Luxembourg, 22 June 1988.
BANGEMANN EWG:L333UMBE00.94 FF: 3UEN; SETUP: 01; Hoehe: 5708 mm; 1077 Zeilen; 52104 Zeichen; Bediener: JUTT Pr.: C; Kunde: (1) OJ No C 32, 12. 2. 1976, p. 2. (2) OJ No C 36, 13. 2. 1978, p. 14, OJ No C 167, 27. 6. 1988 and Decision of 15 June 1988 (not yet published in the Official Journal). (3) OJ No C 204, 30. 8. 1976, p. 13.(4) OJ No L 228, 16. 8. 1973, p. 3. (5) OJ No L 185, 4. 7. 1987, p. 72.(6) OJ No L 151, 7. 6. 1978, p. 25.(7) OJ No L 193, 18. 7. 1983, p. 1.(8) OJ No L 189, 13. 9. 1976, p. 13.(9) This Directive was notified to Member States on 30 June 1988.
ANNEX 1 MATCHING RULES The currency in which the insurer's commitments are payable shall be determined in accordance with the following rules: 1.
Where the cover provided by a contract is expressed in terms of a particular currency, the insurer's commitments are considered to be payable in that currency. 2.
Where the cover provided by a contract is not expressed in terms of any currency, the insurer's commitments are considered to be payable in the currency of the country in which the risk is situated.
The Member States may authorize the insurer to consider that the currency in which he must provide cover will be either that which he will use in accordance with experience acquired or, in the absence of such experience, the currency of the country in which he is established: - for contracts covering risks classified under classes 4, 5, 6, 7, 11, 12 and 13 (producers' liability only), and - for contracts covering the risks classified under other classes where, in accordance with the nature of the risks, the cover is to be provided in a currency other than that which would result from the application of the above procedures. 4.
Where a claim is assessed in a currency which is known to the insurer in advance but which is different from the currency resulting from application of the above procedures, the insurers may consider their commitments to be payable in that currency. 6.
The Member States may authorize undertakings not to cover their technical reserves by matching assets if application of the above procedures would result in the undertaking - whether head office or branch - being obliged, in order to comply with the matching principle, to hold assets in a currency amounting to not more than 7 % of the assets existing in other currencies.
The Member States may authorize undertakings - whether head offices or branches - not to hold matching assets to cover an amount not exceeding 20 % of their commitments in a particular currency.
Each Member State may provide that, whenever under the preceding procedures a commitment has to be covered by assets expressed in the currency of a Member State, this requirement shall also be considered to be satisfied when up to 50 % of the assets in expressed in ECU.
Total gross premiums earned 2.
Gross underwriting result EWG:L333UMBE02.97 FF: 3UEN; SETUP: 01; Hoehe: 254 mm; 13 Zeilen; 451 Zeichen; Bediener: WILU Pr.: C; Kunde:
