2006/748/EC: Commission Decision of 4 July 2006 on State Aid No C 30/2004 (ex NN 34/2004) implemented by Portugal exempting from corporation tax on capital gains certain operations/transactions by public undertakings (notified under document number C(2006) 2950) (Text with EEA relevance) Commission Decision of 4 July 2006 on State Aid No C 30/2004 (ex NN 34/2004) implemented by Portugal exempting from corporation tax on capital gains certain operations/transactions by public undertakings (notified under document number C(2006) 2950) (Only the Portuguese version is authentic) (Text with EEA relevance) (2006/748/EC) THE COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular the first subparagraph of Article 88(2) thereof, Having regard to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, and in particular Article 62(1)(a) thereof, Having called on interested parties to submit their comments pursuant to the article cited above [1], Whereas: I.
PROCEDURE (1) Following information relating to alleged tax exemptions on capital gains granted by the Portuguese authorities to certain public undertakings under Article 25 of the Portuguese Tax Relief Regulations, Estatuto dos Benefícios Fiscais (hereinafter referred to as "EBF") [2], the Commission asked the Portuguese authorities for detailed information by letter dated 14 March 2001. (2) The Portuguese authorities replied by letter of 25 April 2001.
The Portuguese authorities submitted further information by letter of 8 September 2004. (3) By letter dated 6 October 2004 the Commission informed Portugal that it had decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 88(2) of the EC Treaty on the aid measure in question [3].
In this decision, published in the Official Journal of the European Union [4], the Commission invited interested parties to submit their comments on the measure. (4) By letter received by the Commission on 21 December 2005, the Portuguese authorities submitted their comments. (5) No interested parties submitted any comment.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE AID SCHEME (6) The tax exemptions are provided for in Article 25 of the EBF, entitled Mais-valias no âmbito do processo de privatização (capital gains as part of the privatisation process) which corresponds to Article 32-C in the original version of 2000 before the amendment of the EBF by Decree-Law 198/2001 of 3 July 2001. (7) For the purposes of establishing the profit liable for corporation tax in the case of wholly publicly owned companies and companies controlled by them, Article 25 EBF provides for the exclusion from the taxable amount of capital gains from privatisation and restructuring operations carried out in accordance with the strategic guidelines for the performance of the State's shareholder function and recognised as such by order of the Finance Minister. (8) Article 25 of the Portuguese EBF entered into force on 1 January 2000 pursuant to Article 103 of Law 3-B/2000 of 4 April 2000.
GROUNDS FOR INITIATING THE PROCEDURE (9) The decision to initiate the formal investigation procedure stated that Article 25 EBF seemed to constitute a state aid scheme within the meaning of Article 87(1) of the EC Treaty.
In such cases reinvestment of the proceeds leads to their exclusion from taxable profit. - This situation changed from 2001 [6].
In such cases, reinvestment of the proceeds leads to their exclusion from taxable profit, something which is an integral part of the Portuguese tax system. (14) Article 25 EBF also excludes from the taxable base for IRC capital gains realised by 100 % state-owned companies and companies controlled by them.
Therefore, given that no financial advantage was granted to the public undertakings, the Portuguese authorities deny that there is anything to recover. (19) The four transactions that benefited from the scheme are: - The sale by Mundial Confiança (MC), an insurance subsidiary of the Portuguese financial institution CGD, of its holding (5,46 %) in Crédito Predial Português (CPP) to Banco Santander Central Hispano (BSCH) on 5 April 2000.
The capital gain realised by MC was EUR 9,3 million. - The sale by Banco Pinto %amp% Sotto Mayor (BPSM), controlled by CGD at the time of the transaction, of its holding (94,38 %) in Banco Totta %amp% Açores (BTA) and its holding (7,09 %) in CPP to BSCH on 7 April 2000.
The capital gain realised by BPSM was estimated at EUR 310 million. - A share exchange between MC and BCP.
MC sold its holding (53,05 %) in BPSM to BCP in exchange for approximately 10 % of BCP on 19 June 2000.
The capital gain realised by MC was EUR 1566,4 million. - The capital gain from the sale of CGD's stake in the Brazilian bank ITAÚ SA, which took place between 2000 and 2003.
Article 25 EBF, which exempts from corporation tax public undertakings’ capital gains from privatisation and restructuring operations, constitutes a state aid scheme. (26) The Court of Justice has consistently held that a measure whereby the public authorities grant certain undertakings a tax exemption which, although not involving a transfer of state resources, places the persons to whom the exemption applies in a more favourable financial position than other taxpayers constitutes state aid within the meaning of Article 87(1) of the Treaty [9].
State resources (27) The measure provided for in Article 25 EBF uses state resources because it is based on the non-collection of corporation taxes which would normally be due to the State.
Selective advantage (28) Article 25 EBF, compared with the normal tax arrangements applicable to capital gains in Portugal, grants an advantage to the beneficiaries. (29) The normal tax arrangments to be taken into consideration are those applicable to undertakings without distinction as to ownership (public-owned or not) or nature (holding or not). (30) The normal tax arrangements are not those applicable exclusively to holding companies because the transactions covered by Article 25 EBF (restructuring operations) may involve both holding and non-holding companies. (31) The preferential tax regime applicable to capital gains obtained by holdings in Portugal, became applicable from 1993.
This means that even by comparison with the arrangements applicable to holding companies, which were not the normal tax arrangements in Portugal, a selective advantage was accorded to wholly publicly owned companies and companies controlled by them. (32) An exemption from capital gains tax puts the publicly owned companies which benefit from it at an advantage compared with other companies operating in the same economic sectors because these public companies enjoy an increased cash flow for running their business.
This argument cannot, however, be accepted by the Commission for the following reasons. (36) Firstly, there is no such concept as public-sector companies relevant for tax purposes as the companies that may potentially enjoy the advantage accorded by Article 25 EBF may in principle intervene on a wide variety of markets. (37) Secondly, this measure does not identify any aspects specific to public companies compared with private ones.
This measure is selective even in respect of undertakings in the public sector, also because of the discretionary power enjoyed by the competent authority. (39) Therefore, the Commission concludes that Article 25 EBF grants a selective advantage.
Effect on trade and distortion of competition (40) By enabling public companies undergoing privatisation or regulated restructuring to enjoy reductions in the tax on their capital gains, Article 25 EBF grants them an operating advantage and strengthens their position compared with other companies.
Where aid granted by a Member State strengthens the position of a company in relation to other companies competing in intra-Community trade, these other companies must be regarded as affected by that aid [12]. (41) What is more, all the identified beneficiaries of the scheme operate in the banking and insurance sectors, sectors that have been open to competition for many years.
Moreover, three of the four transactions were already decided under the previous arrangements as Article 25 EBF had not yet been approved at the time.
In this context, the Commission must not to take into account the hypothetical choices which could have been made by the operators concerned, such as operations structured in other ways. (57) Consequently, in order to assess the situation that would have prevailed if the operations in question had been carried out without the tax reduction, an analysis must be made of each of the transactions that benefited from Article 25 EBF.
For these transactions there was no advantage in applying Article 25 EBF since, in view of the nature of the operation, MC and BPSM would have been exempted, even without this article, under the exemption arrangements for holding companies, which is the normal tax treatment under Portuguese legislation.
Third transaction (62) The third transaction was the exchange of shares between MC and BCP described above. (63) Thus the capital gains realised by MC from the swap of a majority shareholding in BPSM for shares accounting for about 10 % of the authorised capital of BCP, would be subject to the "special system applicable to mergers, divisions, transfers of assets and share swaps" of Articles 67 to 72 CIRC.
Fourth transaction (65) The fourth and last transaction is the capital gain from the sale of CGD's stake in the Brazilian bank ITAÚ SA, which took place between 2000 and 2003.
Unlike the other three transactions, this one is not related to agreements between the Champalimaud Group and BSCH. (66) The complete sale took several transactions between 2000 and 2003.
The Portuguese authorities did not provide enough detailed evidence on the different steps of the operation in question that would have led to tax neutrality, even if Article 25 EBF had not been applied. (67) Therefore, the Portuguese authorities have not shown, at this stage, that the amount to be calculated by applying the effective tax rate to the capital gains actually realised (EUR 357,4 million) plus interest, should not be recovered.
CONCLUSION (68) The Commission finds that Portugal was in breach of Article 88(3) of the Treaty in implementing Article 25 of the Portuguese EBF.
Article 2 Portugal shall repeal the scheme referred to in Article 1.
Portugal shall take all necessary measures to recover from the beneficiaries the aid referred to in Article 1 that was granted to them unlawfully. 2.
Article 4 Portugal shall inform the Commission within two months of notification of this Decision of the measures taken to comply with it.
Done at Brussels, 4 July 2006.
