Article 3 Approval of intermediaries 1.
Article 4 Approval procedure for establishments and intermediaries 1.
To obtain approval, establishments referred to in Article 2 and intermediaries referred to in Article 3 which intend to exercise for the first time one or more of the activities referred to in Article 2 and 3 shall, as from 1 April 1998 submit an application to the competent authority of the Member State in which their facilities are located.
Establishments and intermediaries which, on 1 April 1998, were exercising one or more of the activities referred to in Articles 2 and 3 respectively, may continue their activities until a decision has been taken on their application for approval, on condition that they submit the application before 1 September 1998.
Article 5 Register of approved establishments and intermediaries 1.
Member States shall update the entries of establishments and intermediaries in the register in accordance with the decisions referred to in Article 2 (3) and Article 3 (2) to withdraw or amend approval.
Article 6 Publication and communication of the list of approved establishments and intermediaries 1.
Each Member State shall publish a list of the establishments and intermediaries approved in accordance with Articles 2 and 3 for the first time in November 2001, and then each year, by 30 November at the latest, the list of amendments made during the year; every five years, it shall publish a consolidated list. 2.
Before 31 December each year, Member States shall send the Commission the list referred to in paragraph 1.
Before 31 December each year, Member States shall send the other Member States a list of the establishments referred to in Article 2 (2) (a) and (b) and of the intermediaries approved in accordance with Article 3 (1).
CHAPTER III REGISTRATION OF ESTABLISHMENTS AND INTERMEDIARIES Article 7 Registration of establishments 1.
An establishment wishing to exercise one or more of the activities referred to in paragraph 2 must be registered by a Member State for each activity in accordance with this Directive. 2.
Article 8 Registration of intermediaries 1.
The provisions laid down in point 7 of Chapter II (c) of the Annex shall apply, as appropriate, to intermediaries which wrap, package, store or put into circulation additives or premixtures of additives. 2.
Article 9 Registration procedure for establishments and intermediaries 1.
In order to be registered, the establishments referred to in Article 7 (2) and the intermediaries referred to in Article 8 (1) shall, as from 1 April 1998, submit a declaration to the competent authority of the Member State in which they intend to exercise their activities. 2.
Establishments and intermediaries which, on 1 April 1998, were exercising one or more of the activities referred to in Articles 7 and 8 respectively, may continue their activities on condition that they submitted the declaration referred to in paragraph 1 by 1 September 1998.
Article 10 List of registered establishments and intermediaries 1.
For each activity, the competent authority shall enter the establishments and intermediaries which it has registered in accordance with Articles 7 and 8 on a list under an individual registration number which identifies them. 2.
Article 11 Communication of the list of registered establishments and intermediaries 1.
Before 31 December each year, Member States shall send the Commission the list of establishments and intermediaries registered during the year in accordance with Articles 7 and 8 and, every five years, they shall send a consolidated list. 2.
CHAPTER IV COMMON PROVISIONS Article 12 Simplified procedure Where an establishment manufacturing an additive is already authorized to manufacture the same active substance as a veterinary medicinal product within the meaning of Article 24 of Directive 81/851/EEC (1), Member States shall not be obliged to verify that the conditions laid down in Article 2 (2) (a) and contained in Chapter I.1 (b) of the Annex to this Directive have been fulfilled, with the exception of the requirements set out in points 4, 5, 6.2 and 7.
Article 16 Standing Committee for Feedingstuffs The Commission shall be assisted by the Standing Committee for Feedingstuffs established by Decision 70/372/EEC, hereinafter referred to as 'the Committee'.
The opinion shall be delivered by the majority laid down in Article 148 (2) of the Treaty in the case of Decisions which the Council is required to adopt on a proposal from the Commission.
CHAPTER V ADAPTATION OF LEGISLATION Article 17 Amendment of Directive 70/524/EEC Article 13 (1) of Directive 70/524/EEC shall be replaced by the following: 'Article 13 1.
Member States shall require that products referred to in Chapter I.1 (a) of Council Directive 95/69/EC of 22 December 1995 laying down the conditions and arrangements for approving and registering certain establishments and intermediaries operating in the animal feed sector (*) may be put into circulation only by establishments or intermediaries which meet the conditions laid down in Article 2 or Article 3 of that Directive, as appropriate. (*) OJ No L 332, 30. 12. 1995, p. 15.' (2) In the Annex, for the products referred to in Chapter I.1 (a) of this Directive, in column 7 ('special provisions'), the terms 'approval number' shall be added as a final indent to the details to be given on the packaging of the product, on the container or on a label affixed thereto.
CHAPTER VI FINAL PROVISIONS Article 21 1.
Article 22 Thise Directive shall enter into force on the 20th day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Artikel 23 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 22 December 1995.
Facilities and equipment Facilities and manufacturing equipment must be located, designed, constructed and maintained to suit the manufacture of the 'products' concerned.
Personnel The manufacturer must have sufficient staff possessing the skills and qualifications necessary for the manufacture of the 'products' concerned.
All the staff must be informed clearly in writing of their duties, responsibilities and powers, especially when any change is made, in such a way as to obtain the desired quality of the 'products' concerned. 3.
Production A qualified person responsible for production must be designated.
Samples of the active substance and of each batch of 'product' put into circulation or of each specific portion of production in the case of continuous production must be taken in sufficient quantity by a procedure pre-established by the manufacturer and be retained in order to ensure traceability.
Products covered by Directive 82/471/EEC must be labelled in compliance with the provisions of that Directive. 6.
Intermediaries referred to in Article 3 (1) Where the manufacturer delivers additives to a person other than a manufacturer or products referred to in Directive 82/471/EEC to a person other than a user (manufacturer or stock breeder), that person and any subsequent intermediary by whom they are wrapped, packaged, stored or put into circulation shall be equally bound, as appropriate, by the obligations laid down in points 4, 5, 6.2 and 8 and, in the case of wrapping, by those referred to in point 3. 8.
Complaints and product recall The manufacturer or any intermediary putting a product into circulation under his own name must implement a system for registering and processing complaints.
Facilities and equipment Facilities and manufacturing equipment must be located, designed, constructed and maintained to suit the manufacture of the premixtures concerned.
Personnel The manufacturer must have sufficient staff possessing the skills and qualifications necessary for the manufacture of the premixtures concerned.
All the staff must be informed clearly in writing of their duties, responsibilities and powers, especially when any change is made, in such a way as to obtain the desired quality of the premixtures concerned. 3.
Premixtures must be wrapped and labelled in accordance with the provisions of Directive 70/524/EEC. 6.
Intermediaries referred to in Article 3 (1) Where the manufacturer delivers premixtures to a person other than a manufacturer of compound feedingstuffs, that person and any subsequent intermediary by whom they are wrapped, packaged, stored our put into circulation shall be equally bound, as appropriate, by the obligations laid down in points 4, 5, 6.2 and 8 and, in the case of wrapping, by those referred to in point 3. 8.
Facilities and equipment to be used for manufacturing operations which are essential for the quality of the products must undergo appropriate and regular checks, in accordance with the written procedures pre-established by the manufacturer, or possibly, in the case of manufacture solely for the manufacturer's own needs, pre-established by a qualified outside person acting at the request and under the responsibility of the manufacturer.
All the staff must be informed clearly in writing of their duties, responsibilities and powers, especially when any change is made, in such a way as to obtain the desired quality of the compound feedingstuffs containing premixtures. 3.
The manufacturer must ensure that the different stages in production are carried out according to pre-established written procedures and instructions aimed at defining, checking and mastering the critical points in the manufacturing process, such as incorporation of the premixture in the feedingstuff, chronological order of production, meters and weighing apparatus, mixer and returns, in such a way as to obtain the desired quality of the compound feedingstuffs in accordance with the provisions of Directive 79/373/EEC.
Technical or organizational measures shall be taken to avoid cross-contamination and errors as far as possible. 4.
The 'products' must be stored in such a way as to be easily identifiable and to avoid any confusion or cross-contamination between the different products and with medicinal substances or medicinal feedingstuffs, or with raw materials containing high levels of undesirable substances and products, or with additives.
CHAPTER I.4 Minimum conditions which must be fulfilled by establishments referred to in Article 2 (2) (d) and (e) (compound feedingstuffs from raw materials which contain high levels of undesirable substances and products ('raw materials concerned')) 1.
The manufacture must ensure that the different stages in production are carried out according to pre-established written procedures and instructions aimed at defining, checking and mastering the critical points in the manufacturing process, such as incorporation in the feedingstuff of the 'raw material concerned', chronological order of production, meters and weighing apparatus, mixer and returns, in such a way as to obtain the desired quality of the compound feedingstuffs in accordance with the provisions of Directive 79/373/EEC.
The manufacturer must have at his disposal a quality control laboratory having adequate staff and equipment to guarantee and check that the compound feedingstuffs concerned comply with the specifications defined by the manufacturer and which will guarantee and check, in particular, the nature, content and homogeneity of the undesirable substances and products concerned in the compound feedingstuff, and as low a level as possible of cross-contamination as well as compliance with the maximum levels of undesirable substances and products as laid down in Directive 74/63/EEC and, in the case of feedingstuffs to be put into circulation, contents as regards analytical constituents (Directive 79/373/EEC).
The products must be stored in such a way as to be easily identifiable and to avoid any confusion or cross-contamination between the different products mentioned above and with medicinal substances or medicinal feedingstuffs, or with additives or premixtures of additives.
Documentation relating to the manufacturing process and controls The manufacturer must have a system of documentation designed to define and ensure the mastery of the critical points in the manufacturing process, and to establish and implement a quality control plan.
Personnel The manufacturer must have sufficient staff possessing the skills and qualifications necessary for the manufacture of the 'products concerned'. 3.
The products must be stored in such a way as to be easily identifiable and to avoid any confusion or cross-contamination between the different products mentioned above and with medicinal substances or medicinal feedingstuffs.
Products to be put into circulation must be wrapped, where appropriate, and labelled in accordance with the provisions of Directive 70/524/EEC or Directive 79/373/EEC, as appropriate. 6.
Intermediaries referred to in Article 8 (1) Where the manufacturer delivers additives to a person other than a manufacturer or stock breeder, or premixtures to a person other than a manufacturer, that person and any subsequent intermediary by whom they are wrapped, packaged, stored or put into circulation shall be equally bound, as appropriate, by the obligations laid down in points 4, 5 and 6.2 and, in the case of wrapping, by those laid down in point 3.
