The provisions of that Directive are therefore fully applicable to the exposure of workers to biological agents, without prejudice to more stringent and/or specific provisions contained in this Directive. (4) More precise knowledge of the risks involved in exposure to biological agents can be obtained through the keeping of records. (5) The list and classification of the biological agents must be examined regularly and revised on the basis of new scientific data. (6) For a number of biological agents details additional to their classification should be given. (7) Employers must keep abreast of new developments in technology with a view to improving the protection of workers' health and safety. (8) Preventive measures should be taken for the protection of the health and safety of workers exposed to biological agent. (9) This Directive constitutes a practical aspect of the realisation of the social dimension of the internal market. (10) Pursuant to Council Decision 74/325/EEC(6) the Advisory Committee on Safety, Hygiene and Health Protection at Work should be consulted by the Commission with a view to the formulation of proposals in this field.
Directive 89/391/EEC shall apply fully to the whole area referred to in paragraph 1, without prejudice to more stringent and/or specific provisions contained in this Directive. 3.
The assessment referred to in paragraph 2 shall be conducted on the basis of all available information including: (a) classification of biological agents which are or may be a hazard to human health, as referred to in Article 18; (b) recommendations from a competent authority which indicate that the biological agent should be controlled in order to protect workers' health when workers are or may be exposed to such a biological agent as a result of their work; (c) information on diseases which may be contracted as a result of the work of the workers; (d) potential allergenic or toxigenic effects as a result of the work of the workers; (e) knowledge of a disease from which a worker is found to be suffering and which has a direct connection with his work.
Article 4 Application of the various Articles in relation to assessment of risks 1.
If the results of the assessment referred to in Article 3 show that the exposure and/or potential exposure is to a group 1 biological agent, with no identifiable health risk to workers, Articles 5 to 17 and Article 19 shall not apply.
If the results of the assessment referred to in Article 3 show that the activity does not involve a deliberate intention to work with or use a biological agent but may result in the workers' being exposed to a biological agent, as in the course of the activities for which an indicative list is given in Annex I, Articles 5, 7, 8, 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 shall apply unless the results of the assessment referred to in Article 3 show them to be unnecessary.
CHAPTER II EMPLOYERS' OBLIGATIONS Article 5 Replacement The employer shall avoid the use of a harmful biological agent if the nature of the activity so permits, by replacing it with a biological agent which, under its conditions of use, is not dangerous or is less dangerous to workers' health, as the case may be, in the present state of knowledge.
Article 6 Reduction of risks 1.
Where the results of the assessment referred to in Article 3 reveal a risk to workers' health or safety, workers' exposure must be prevented. 2.
Where the results of the assessment referred to in Article 3 reveal risk to workers' health or safety, employers shall, when requested, make available to the competent authority appropriate information on: (a) the results of the assessment; (b) the activities in which workers have been exposed or may have been exposed to biological agents; (c) the number of workers exposed; (d) the name and capabilities of the person responsible for safety and health at work; (e) the protective and preventive measures taken, including working procedures and methods; (f) an emergency plan for the protection of workers from exposure to group 3 or a group 4 biological agent which might result from a loss of physical containment. 2.
Employers shall inform forthwith the competent authority of any accident or incident which may have resulted in the release of a biological agent and which could cause severe human infection and/or illness. 3.
The list referred to in Article 11 and the medical record referred to in Article 14 shall be made available to the competent authority in cases where the undertaking ceases activity, in accordance with national laws and/or practice.
Article 8 Hygiene and individual protection 1.
Article 9 Information and training of workers 1.
Article 10 Worker information in particular cases 1.
Workers shall immediately report any accident or incident involving the handling of a biological agent to the person in charge, or to the person responsible for safety and health at work. 3.
Each worker shall have access to the information on the list referred to in Article 11 which relates to him personally. 5.
Article 11 List of exposed workers 1.
Employers shall keep a list of workers exposed to group 3 and/or group 4 biological agents, indicating the type of work done and, whenever possible, the biological agent to which they have been exposed, as well as records of exposures, accidents and incidents, as appropriate. 2.
In the case of those exposures which may result in infections: (a) with biological agents known to be capable of establishing persistent or latent infections; (b) that, in the light of present knowledge, are undiagnosable until illness develops many years later; (c) that have particularly long incubation periods before illness develops; (d) that result in illnesses which recrudesce at times over a long period despite treatment, or (e) that may have serious long-term sequelae, the list shall be kept for an appropriately longer time up to 40 years following the last known exposure. 3.
The doctor referred to in Article 14 and/or the competent authority for health and safety at work, and any other person responsible for health and safety at work, shall have access to the list referred to in paragraph 1.
Article 12 Consultation and participation of workers Consultation and participation of workers and/or their representatives in connection with matters covered by this Directive shall take place in accordance with Article 11 of Directive 89/391/EEC.
Article 13 Notification to the competent authority 1.
Subject to paragraph 2, prior notification shall also be made of the use for the first time of each subsequent group 4 biological agent and of any subsequent new group 3 biological agent where the employer himself provisionally classifies that biological agent. 2.
Laboratories providing a diagnostic service in relation to group 4 biological agents shall be required only to make an initial notification of their intention. 3.
CHAPTER III MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS Article 14 Health surveillance 1.
The Member States shall establish, in accordance with national laws and practice, arrangements for carrying out relevant health surveillance of workers for whom the results of the assessment referred to in Article 3 reveal a risk to health or safety. 2.
The assessment referred to in Article 3 should identify those workers for whom special protective measures may be required.
The doctor or authority responsible for health surveillance shall propose any protective or preventive measures to be taken in respect of any individual worker. 6.
Practical recommendations for the health surveillance of workers are given in Annex IV. 9.
Article 15 Health and veterinary care facilities other than diagnostic laboratories 1.
In isolation facilities where there are human patients or animals who are, or who are suspected of being, infected with group 3 or group 4 biological agents, containment measures shall be selected from those in Annex V column A, in order to minimise the risk of infection.
Article 16 Special measures for industrial processes, laboratories and animal rooms 1.
The following measures must be taken in laboratories, including diagnostic laboratories, and in rooms for laboratory animals which have been deliberately infected with group 2, 3 or 4 biological agents or which are or are suspected to be carriers of such agents. (a) Laboratories carrying out work which involves the handling of group 2, 3 or 4 biological agents for research, development, teaching or diagnostic purposes shall determine the containment measures in accordance with Annex V, in order to minimise the risk of infection. (b) Following the assessment referred to in Article 3, measures shall be determined in accordance with Annex V, after fixing the physical containment level required for the biological agents according to the degree of risk.
Article 18 Classification of biological agents 1.
Article 19 Annexes Purely technical adjustments to the Annexes in the light of technical progress, changes in international regulations or specifications and new findings in the field of biological agents shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 17 of Directive 89/391/EEC.
Article 21 Repeal Directive 90/679/EEC, amended by the Directives referred to in Annex VIII, part A is repealed, without prejudice to the obligations of the Member States in respect of the deadlines for transposition laid down in Annex VIII, part B.
Article 22 Entry into force This Directive enters into force on the twentieth day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Article 23 Addresses This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 18 September 2000.
Fontaine For the Council The President H.
ANNEX II BIOHAZARD SIGN (Article 6(2)(e)) %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2000262EN.002803.EPS%quot%%gt% ANNEX III COMMUNITY CLASSIFICATION Article 2, second paragraph, and Article 18 INTRODUCTORY NOTES 1.
In certain industrial processes, certain laboratory work or certain work with animals involving actual or potential exposure to biological agents of groups 3 or 4, any technical precautions taken must comply with Article 16 of the Directive. 3.
Biological agents which have not been classified for inclusion in groups 2 to 4 of the list are not implicitly classified in group 1.
Certain biological agents classified in group 3 which are indicated in the appended list by two asterisks (**), may present a limited risk of infection for workers because they are not normally infectious by the airborne route.
Health surveillance of workers must be carried out in accordance with the principles and practices of occupational medicine: it must include at least the following measures: - keeping records of a worker's medical and occupational history, - a personalised assessment of the worker's state of health. - where appropriate, biological monitoring, as well as detection of early and reversible effects.
