Where the basic instrument imposes specific procedural requirements for the adoption of implementing measures, such requirements shall be in conformity with the procedures provided for by Articles 3, 4, 5 and 6.
Article 3 Advisory procedure 1.
The Commission shall be assisted by an advisory committee composed of the representatives of the Member States and chaired by the representative of the Commission. 2.
Article 4 Management procedure 1.
The Commission shall be assisted by a management committee composed of the representatives of the Member States and chaired by the representative of the Commission. 2.
Article 5 Regulatory procedure 1.
The Commission shall be assisted by a regulatory committee composed of the representatives of the Member States and chaired by the representative of the Commission. 2.
If the European Parliament considers that a proposal submitted by the Commission pursuant to a basic instrument adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 251 of the Treaty exceeds the implementing powers provided for in that basic instrument, it shall inform the Council of its position. 6.
Article 6 Safeguard procedure The following procedure may be applied where the basic instrument confers on the Commission the power to decide on safeguard measures: (a) the Commission shall notify the Council and the Member States of any decision regarding safeguard measures.
Article 8 If the European Parliament indicates, in a Resolution setting out the grounds on which it is based, that draft implementing measures, the adoption of which is contemplated and which have been submitted to a committee pursuant to a basic instrument adopted under Article 251 of the Treaty, would exceed the implementing powers provided for in the basic instrument, the Commission shall re-examine the draft measures.
Article 9 Decision 87/373/EEC shall be repealed.
Article 10 This Decision shall take effect on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Done at Luxembourg, 28 June 1999.
NAUMANN (1) Three statements in the Council minutes relating to this Decision are set out in OJ C 203 of 17 June, page 1. (2) OJ C 279, 8.9.1998, p. 5. (3) Opinion delivered on 6 May 1999 (not yet published in the Official Journal). (4) OJ L 197, 18.7.1987, p. 33.
