Council Regulation (EC) No 151/2003 of 27 January 2003 imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty on imports of certain grain oriented electrical sheets originating in Russia Council Regulation (EC) No 151/2003 of 27 January 2003 imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty on imports of certain grain oriented electrical sheets originating in Russia THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, Having regard to Council Regulation (EC) No 384/96 of 22 December 1995 on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the European Community(1) (the basic Regulation), and in particular Article 11(2) and (3) thereof, After consulting the Advisory Committee, Whereas: A.
Previous investigation and measures in force (1) By Decision No 303/96/ECSC(2), the Commission imposed a definitive anti-dumping duty on imports into the Community of certain grain oriented electrical sheets (GOES) originating in Russia and falling within CN codes 7225 11 00 and 7226 11 10.
The rate of the anti-dumping duty imposed was 40,1 %.
An undertaking offered in connection with such imports was accepted. (2) In view of the expiry of the Treaty establishing the European Coal and Steel Community on 23 July 2002, the Council, by Regulation (EC) No 963/2002(3), decided that anti-dumping proceedings initiated pursuant to Commission Decision No 2277/96/ECSC(4) (basic Decision) and still in force on that date shall be continued and be governed by the provisions of the basic Regulation with effect from 24 July 2002.
Likewise, any anti-dumping measures resulting from pending anti-dumping investigations shall be governed by the provisions of the basic Regulation from 24 July 2002. 2.
Requests for reviews (3) Following the publication of a notice of the impending expiry of the anti-dumping measures in force on imports of GOES originating in Russia(5), the Commission received a request to review the measures pursuant to Article 11(2) of the basic Decision. (4) The request was lodged by the European Confederation of Iron and Steel Industries (Eurofer) (the applicant) on behalf of producers representing a major proportion of the Community production of the product concerned.
The request was based on the grounds that the expiry of measures would be likely to result in a continuation and/or recurrence of dumping and injury to the Community industry. (5) Having determined, after consulting the Advisory Committee, that sufficient evidence existed for the initiation of a review, the Commission initiated an investigation pursuant to Article 11(2) of the basic Regulation(6). (6) At the same time a decision to open an Article 11(3) investigation was taken by the Commission on its own initiative in order to examine the appropriateness of the form of the measures(7).
During the course of the ongoing investigations, the Commission received requests for Market Economy Treatment (MET) pursuant to Article 11(3) of the basic Regulation by Viz Stal and Novolipetsk Iron and steel Corporation.
Therefore, it is considered appropriate to only decide on the results of the expiry review (which was initiated on 20 February 2001) at this stage.
The examination of the trends relevant for the assessment of likelihood of a continuation and/or recurrence of injury covered the period from 1997 to the end of the IP (analysis period).
LIKELIHOOD OF CONTINUATION OF DUMPING 1.
During the original IP, the share of Russian GOES exports on the Community market amounted to 7,4 % of the Community consumption, while the market share of Russian imports of GOES in the Community during the present IP was 2,2 %.
Likelihood of continuation of dumping (19) In the context of the likelihood of a continuation of dumping, it was investigated whether dumping of exports from Russia was currently taking place.
In accordance with Article 11(9) of the basic Regulation, the same methodology was employed as in the original investigation.
Accordingly, normal value was determined on the basis of information obtained in an appropriate analogue country selected in accordance with Article 2(7) of the basic Regulation. (21) Brazil was selected as an appropriate analogue country in the original investigation.
As indicated in the notice of initiation, the Commission envisaged to use Brazil as an appropriate analogue country also in the present investigation. (22) One exporting producer objected to the choice of Brazil, arguing that the domestic market of GOES of the Czech Republic or Poland would be more similar to the Russian market. (23) The other exporting producer opposed to the choice of Brazil, arguing that because of the existence of only one producer of the product concerned in Brazil the level of competition on that domestic market was low. (24) The Commission, as mentioned in recital 8, sent questionnaires to all producers known to produce the product concerned in other third countries, including the Czech Republic and Poland.
However, none of these producers were willing to provide such information and to cooperate in the present investigation. (25) Therefore, it should be noted that, although the investigation confirmed the existence of only one producer of GOES in Brazil, no cooperation at all was received from other producers in any other potential analogue country.
As mentioned in recital 15, it was also established that the product produced and sold on the domestic market in Brazil was a like product to GOES produced in Russia and exported to the Community.
Brazil was also used as an analogue country in the original investigation. (28) Consequently, the Commission had no reason to believe that the choice of Brazil was not appropriate.
Therefore, the export price in the present investigation was established on the basis of the information submitted by the remaining two exporting producers in Russia, which both cooperated. (31) One of these Russian exporting producers exported the product concerned to the Community via two independent traders, both of which engaged merely in the re-invoicing to end-users in the Community and other third countries.
Thus, export prices were established on the basis of the price actually paid or payable for the product concerned when sold for export to the Community in accordance with Article 2(8) of the basic Regulation. (32) The other Russian exporting producer was largely owned and controlled by a related holding/trading company in Switzerland.
Therefore, export prices were constructed on the basis of resale prices to the first independent customer in the Community in accordance with Article 2(9) of the basic Regulation. (33) Furthermore, the related company in Switzerland imported the product concerned into the Community via its two Community based importing companies.
Therefore, adjustments for slight physical differences between GOES sold on the Brazilian domestic market and those exported from Russia into the Community were made.
The total volume of Russian domestic sales has always been clearly below the total export volume (to all countries).
It is therefore not unreasonable to conclude that export volumes would increase in future, in particular to the Community, should access to the market be free due to the expiry of the current measures. (42) As mentioned below in recital 83, the Russian GOES producers have a well developed selling organisation in the European Community, which facilitates the selling and distribution of the product concerned in the Community market. (43) Accordingly, due to the anticipated increasing volume of imports into the Community in the absence of measures and hence of available supply, it can reasonably be expected that prices will follow a further downward trend, if the measures are allowed to lapse. 4.
Conclusion on the likelihood of a continuation of dumping (44) Imports of Russian GOES during the IP were still dumped, despite the measures imposed.
COMMUNITY INDUSTRY (45) The four Community producers that cooperated in the investigation represented 100 % of the Community production of GOES during the IP.
Community consumption (46) Community consumption was calculated on the basis of the cumulated volume of sales on the Community market by the Community industry and of total import volumes reported by Eurostat or by cooperating exporting Russian producers. (47) On this basis, Community consumption expressed in tonnes increased by 5 % between 1997 and 1999, from around 186000 to 195500 respectively.
It then dropped by 4,9 % to reach around 186000 in the IP.
Imports from Russia Volume of imports (48) On the basis of the information from Eurostat and submitted by cooperating exporting producers, the import volumes from Russia varied between around 3750 tonnes and 6701 tonnes during the analysis period.
Quality improvement of Russian products and pricing behaviour of Russian exporters (50) In the original investigation, GOES from Russia were sold in substantial quantities as second choice material on the Community market, due to quality deficiencies.
As a consequence of the investments made by Russian producers to improve their facilities, the GOES now imported from Russia is first quality material in the vast majority of cases. (51) On the basis of Eurostat figures, prices of imports, expressed in EUR/tonne, decreased sharply from 954 in 1997 to 862 in 1998 and 741 in 1999, a drop of more than 200 EUR/tonne in absolute terms within two years.
Then prices partially recovered, reaching 860 in 2000, a level still below, by around 10 %, that achieved in 1997.
On this basis, the Russian import prices were found significantly below those of the Community industry. 3.
Imports from other third countries (53) The total import volumes of GOES from all third countries other than Russia decreased during the analysis period from around 44300 tonnes in 1997 to around 38600 tonnes in the IP.
The remaining imports were mainly originating in Poland or the Czech Republic.
Imports from Poland varied during the analysis period, between a minimum of around 1600 tonnes in 1999 and a maximum of around 4800 tonnes in the IP.
Imports from the Czech Republic sharply decreased all over the analysis period from around 7000 tonnes in 1997 to less than 2000 tonnes in the IP. (54) In the IP, the market share of imports from third countries other than Russia amounted to 20,7 %; Japan, 11,2 %; Poland, 2,6 % and the Czech Republic, 1,1 %.
Market share of imports under secret origin reached 4,7 % in the IP. (55) Prices of imports from Japan and of imports %quot%declared under secret origin%quot% as well as imports from other sources were substantially higher than those of the Community industry. (56) Following a trend similar to that observed for prices of the Community industry on the Community market (see recital 58), prices of imports from Poland decreased between 1997 and 1999 and then slightly increased in the IP, to reach a level still below that achieved in 1997.
These prices were slightly below those of the Community industry but significantly higher than prices of imports from Russia. (57) Prices of imports from the Czech Republic remained more or less stable at a level below those of the Community industry and of the imports from Poland, but higher than that of imports from Russia in the same year. (58) Detailed data on volumes (expressed in tonnes) and on prices (expressed in EUR/tonne) of imports from third countries other than Russia are as follows: %gt%TABLE%gt% 4.
Situation of the Community industry Restructuring of the Community industry (59) It is recalled that in the original investigation, it was found that between 1990 and the end of the investigation period (end of April 1994), the Community industry suffered material injury which consisted mainly of a decline in sales with a resulting loss of market share as well as price depression.
Production and stocks (61) Production of GOES slightly decreased between 1997 and 1998 and then increased to a level of around 220000 tonnes in the IP.
Capacity (63) As the production facilities used in the manufacturing of GOES are also used for producing other products, it was not possible nor meaningful to establish the capacity and utilisation of capacity that related specifically to the product concerned. (64) However, the assessment of the total level of capacity for producing both GOES and other products showed that the Community industry continued to have spare capacity available which would have allowed it to produce GOES in greater quantities.
Sales (65) Sales of GOES on the Community market increased by around 10 % between 1997/1998 and 1999 from a level of around 136500 tonnes in 1997 and 1998 to around 150000 tonnes in 1999.
They fell sharply by about 5 % in the IP to less than 144000 tonnes, in line with Community consumption.
Detailed figures are reported below: %gt%TABLE%gt% Market share (66) Community industry market share rose by 3,4 percentage points from 73,4 % in 1997 to 76,8 % in 1999 before increasing slightly again to 77,3 % in the IP, an additional gain of 0,5 percentage point in that year.
Detailed data are reported below: %gt%TABLE%gt% Prices (67) Community industry prices on the Community market developed as follows: %gt%TABLE%gt% (68) Prices of GOES in the Community decreased by around 8 % between 1997 and 1999 from a level of 1140 EUR/tonne in 1997 to 1044 EUR/tonne in 1999, an overall loss of around 100 EUR/tonne in absolute terms in only two years.
This decrease has to be seen in the light of the overall instability of the world steel market, which resulted in a general fall in prices of steel products in the years 1998/1999.
However, taking account of the fact that the prices of Russian imports were the lowest during the analysis period (see recitals 51 and 58), it is clear that the prices of Russian imports also exerted a negative pressure on the prices of the Community industry in this period.
Profitability (69) The overall profitability of the Community industry for its sales on the Community market decreased in the analysis period, as shown below: %gt%TABLE%gt% (70) Taking into account the degree of sophistication of the manufacturing process which is necessary to produce GOES, a level of 8 % of profit was found reasonable for this industry to maintain its viability.
The level attained in 1997 cannot be considered representative as in that year it was mainly influenced by the high financial losses registered by one Community producer which experienced difficulties with its supply of raw materials.
In the same year, the other Community producers all registered profits of the satisfactory level of around 8 % on average.
With regard to development of profitability and its decline from 1998 to the IP, reference is also made to the explanation provided in recitals 77 and 80.
Investments and return on investments (72) To accompany the strong restructuring programme undertaken, the Community industry made significant investments in order to rationalise production and sales. %gt%TABLE%gt% Productivity and employment (73) Detailed data on productivity and employment were as follows: %gt%TABLE%gt% (74) Due to the major restructuring efforts undergone by the Community industry after the imposition of the anti-dumping measures currently under review, productivity improved during the analysis period by 15 % overall. (75) Restructuring also led to a reduction by 10 % in the number of employees over the same period.
Confronted to the international steel crisis, its exports decreased by 7 % from around 78000 tonnes in 1997 to around 73000 tonnes in 1999 and then increased to around 76000 tonnes in the IP.
Detailed data on export volumes of the Community industry were as follows: %gt%TABLE%gt% Magnitude of dumping and recovery from past dumping (77) As concerns the impact on the situation of the Community industry of the magnitude of the actual margin of dumping found during the IP, it should be noted that the margin found for Russia is higher than that found in the original IP (see recital 37).
Growth (78) It is recalled that Community consumption increased by 5 % between 1997 and 1999 and then dropped by 4,9 % in the IP, going back to a level close to that achieved in 1997.
The sales volume of the Community industry followed a similar trend in this period, the decline between 1999 and 2000 being however less marked than the decrease in consumption in these years. 5.
Conclusion on the situation of the Community industry (79) In terms of volumes, the introduction of the anti-dumping measures on imports of the product concerned from Russia enabled an improvement in the economic situation of the Community industry between 1997 and 1999.
This allowed the Community industry to improve its production by 3,7 % and its sales to the Community market by 10 %.
However, this trend reversed in the IP (production - 0,3 %, deliveries to the Community - 4,3 % percentage points) while consumption decreased by 4,9 % in the same time (see recital 47). (80) The financial situation of the Community industry initially improved after the imposition of the measures.
However, in the wake of the general instability experienced by the world steel market, the Community industry's prices, which were also subject to the downward pressure of prices of imports from Russia, decreased by around 8 % between 1997 and 1998.
Despite the significant restructuring efforts undertaken by the Community producers, their substantial gains in productivity as well as their improved situation in terms of sales volumes, the drop in prices resulted, from 1998 to the IP, in a steady decline in the profitability of the Community industry. (81) It is therefore concluded that despite the improvement observed subsequent to the imposition of anti-dumping measures, the Community industry is still in a weakened situation.
LIKELIHOOD OF CONTINUATION AND/OR RECURRENCE OF INJURY (82) Bearing in mind that GOES production facilities can also be used to manufacture other products (see recital 63), it was not meaningful to accurately assess the production capacity for the Russian exporters in relation only to the product concerned.
Nevertheless, as referred to in recital 41, the GOES producers in Russia have increased their total available capacity (destined both to the product concerned and to other products)by around 10 % in the analysis period.
Indeed, if these additional volumes were directed towards the Community market, they could very well go beyond the significant levels found in the original investigation. (83) Since 1994, the Russian GOES producers have developed their selling organisation in the European Community.
Taking account of the investments made for that purpose, it is therefore clear that Russian producers intend to develop their sales on the EU market. (84) As in the IP, the Russian producers are still selling GOES on the Community market at prices substantially below those of the Community producers, such a price behaviour combined with their capacity to sell increased quantities would likely result in price depression on the Community market, as found in the original investigation, if the measures in force were allowed to lapse. (85) As shown in recitals 59 to 81, the Community industry is still in a precarious situation, in particular as regards its profitability.
It is likely that if the Community industry was exposed to increased volumes of imports from Russia at dumped prices this would result in a deterioration of its financial situation as found in the original investigation.
COMMUNITY INTEREST 1.
Introduction (86) In accordance with Article 21 of the basic Regulation, it was examined whether a prolongation of the anti-dumping measures in force would be against the interests of the Community as a whole.
For the purpose of this analysis, the Commission requested information from all identified interested parties. (87) It should also be noted that, in the context of an expiry review, the scrutiny of a situation in which anti-dumping measures have been in place allows assessment of any negative, undue impact of the anti-dumping measures in force on the parties concerned. 2.
This shows that this industry is capable of benefiting from the protection offered by anti-dumping measures against unfair trade practices. (89) The Community industry has also shown its willingness and resolution to consolidate its competitive presence both on the Community market and worldwide.
In other words, the efforts undertaken by the Community industry both to rationalise its production and to restructure would be wasted if renewed and increased dumping would prevent it to reach a sufficient sales volume. (91) In conclusion, taking into account the current viability of the Community industry and its strong efforts to remain competitive both at European and world level it is considered that if measures lapse the Community industry's situation would be jeopardised by a subsequent expected increase in imports of GOES from Russia. 3.
This company, which belongs to the same holding company as the three Community producers mentioned above (see recital 60), produces different qualities of steel and in particular the raw material necessary for manufacturing GOES.
Moreover, as it is difficult to shift from the production of silicon-electrical steel to the production of other qualities of steel without incurring significant costs, any reduction in the production of GOES would lead to a knock-on effect on employment. (93) It is therefore concluded that it is also in the interests of the suppliers that the measures remain in force. 4.
Nine responses were received by the Commission, covering less than 20 % of the total consumption of GOES in the Community. (96) The downstream industry can be divided in two main sectors: - the first cuts GOES according to pre-defined shapes and assembles these pieces to manufacture transformer cores which are then resold to transformer producers for further processing, - the other produces transformers.
GOES represent a substantial item in the total cost of the final products of this industry (from 10 % to 30 % depending on the type of transformer).
However, they did not submit any evidence supporting these allegations.
In addition, it was also possible to import GOES from other sources such as Poland and the Czech Republic (see recital 58).
It therefore appears that the existing anti-dumping measures did not erode the competitiveness of this industry. (101) In addition, the fact that the Thyssen Krupp group was both the sole producer of silicon electrical steel in the Community and owner of three of the four Community producers of GOES was also criticised.
The specific situation of the Thyssen Krupp group has been analysed in detail by the Commission with regard to provisions of the ECSC Treaty concerning competition (see recital 60 and recital 89).
In this context, it is recalled that by Commission Decision No 303/96/ECSC of 19 February 1996 the Commission accepted an undertaking which should be maintained pending the outcome of the reviews under Article 11(3).
The rate of the definitive anti-dumping duty shall be 40,1 % of the net, free-at-Community frontier price, before duty (TARIC additional code 8877 ). 3.
Article 2 Notwithstanding Article 1, the duty shall not apply to imports of the products concerned exported and invoiced direct to buyers in the Community by the following companies (both under TARIC additional code 8878 ): - Novolipetsk Iron and Steel Corporation (NLMK), Lipetsk, - Viz Stal, Ekaterinburg.
Done at Brussels, 27 January 2003.
