Article 2 Appointment, statute and independence 1.
The Data Protection Officer shall be appointed in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 29 of the Staff Regulations. 2.
The Secretary-General shall register the Data Protection Officer with the European Data Protection Supervisor. 3.
In addition, he or she may call upon specialist outside staff to help him or her in the performance of his or her duties. 7.
The Data Protection Officer and his or her staff (to whom Article 287 of the Treaty shall apply) shall maintain, including once they have ceased their duties, professional secrecy as regards any confidential documents or information which they obtain in the course of their duties.
Article 2a Assistant Officers 1.
Article 3 Duties 1.
Specifically, the Officer shall provide advice to the Registry department in order to ensure compliance with the provisions laid down in the Bureau decision of 28 November 2001 concerning public access to European Parliament documents. 3.
Should there be any doubt regarding the need for a prior check, the Data Protection Officer shall consult the European Data Protection Supervisor. - Upholding data subjects' rights and freedoms: the Data Protection Officer shall ensure that processing operations do not undermine the rights and freedoms of data subjects and that no person suffers loss or damage for having brought to the Data Protection Officer's attention a matter which in the view of that person constitutes an infringement of the Regulation.
Article 5 Powers 1.
Article 6 Procedure for notifying processing operations 1.
In any event, the notification shall comply with the provisions laid down in paragraph 3.
The data controller shall, in accordance with the notification procedure laid down in paragraph 1, immediately notify processing operations which were already under way on the date of entry into force of the Regulation ( 1 February 2002). 3.
The information to be provided shall include at least the following: (a) the name and address of the data controller and an indication of the European Parliament departments which are entrusted with the processing of personal data for a particular purpose; (b) the purpose or purposes of the processing; (c) a description of the category or categories of data subjects and of the data or categories of data relating to them; (d) the legal basis of the processing operation for which the data are intended; (e) the recipients or categories of recipient to whom the data might be disclosed; (f) a general indication of the time limits for blocking and erasure of the various categories of data; (g) the proposed transfers of data to third countries or international organisations and recipients who are subject to the law of a Member State; (h) a general description allowing a preliminary assessment to be made of the appropriateness of the measures taken pursuant to Article 22 of the Regulation in order to ensure that processing is secure. 4.
Article 7 Register of processing operations 1.
The register may be inspected by any person and shall also facilitate the exercise of the recognised rights of the data subject which are laid down in Articles 13 to 19 of the Regulation. 2.
Article 8 General rules governing the exercise of rights by data subjects 1.
Requests to exercise a right may be rejected in the cases referred to in Article 20 of the Regulation, subject to application of Article 17 of this Decision.
Article 9 Right of access 1.
The data subject shall have the right to obtain, without constraint, at any time within three months from the receipt of the request and free of charge from the data controller: - confirmation as to whether or not data related to him or her are being processed; - information at least as to the purposes of the processing operation, the categories of data concerned, and the recipients or categories of recipients to whom the data are disclosed; - communication in an intelligible form of the data undergoing processing and of any available information as to their source; - knowledge of the logic involved in any automated decision process concerning him or her. 2.
The data subject may access his or her personal data by any of the following means: - on-site consultation; - issue of a certified copy drawn up by the data controller; - issue of an electronic copy; - other means available to the data controller and suited to the configuration of the file.
Article 10 Right of rectification 1.
Article 11 Right to have data blocked 1.
The data controller shall take a decision within 15 working days of receiving a request for data to be blocked.
Article 12 Right of erasure 1.
The data subject shall have the right to obtain from the data controller the erasure of data if the processing thereof is unlawful. 2.
The data controller shall reply within 15 working days of receiving a request for erasure.
If the data controller deems the request unjustified, he or she shall have 15 working days within which to inform the data subject by means of a letter stating the grounds for the decision. 4.
Article 13 Right to object 1.
Requests to make an objection shall specify the datum or data concerned. 4.
The data controller shall reply to the data subject within 15 working days of receiving a request to make an objection.
If the data controller deems the request unjustified, he or she shall inform the data subject by means of a letter stating the grounds for the decision. 5.
Article 14 Monitoring procedure 1.
Article 15 Remedies 1.
Any person employed by the European Parliament may lodge a complaint pursuant to Article 33 of the Regulation with the European Data Protection Supervisor.
Lodging such a complaint shall not have the effect of stopping time running for the purposes of lodging a complaint pursuant to Article 90 of the Staff Regulations. 2.
Irrespective of the right referred to in paragraph 1, any person employed by the European Parliament may lodge with the Appointing Authority a complaint pursuant to Article 90 of the Staff Regulations in respect of a matter relating to the processing of personal data.
Article 16 Restrictions 1.
Article 17 Data controllers 1.
Article 17a Access to documents 1.
Article 18 Entry into force This Decision shall come into force on the day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. --------------------------------------------------
