85/204/EEC: Council Decision of 7 March 1985 accepting, on behalf of the Community, three Annexes to the international convention on the simplification and harmonization of customs procedures COUNCIL DECISION of 7 March 1985 accepting, on behalf of the Community, three Annexes to the international convention on the simplification and harmonization of customs procedures (85/204/EEC) THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, Having regard to the recommendation from the Commission, Whereas, under Decision 75/199/EEC (1), the Community is a party to the international convention on the simplification and harmonization of customs procedures; Whereas the Annexes to the said convention concerning entry for home use, outright exportation and repayment of import duties and taxes can be accepted by the Community; Whereas it is appropriate, however, to accompany this acceptance with certain reservations in order to take account of the special requirements of the Customs Union and of the present state of harmonization in the area of customs legislation, HAS DECIDED AS FOLLOWS: Article 1 The following Annexes to the international convention on the simplification and harmonization of customs procedures are hereby accepted on behalf of the Community, subject to the reservations indicated: - Annex B.1 concerning clearance for home use (Annex I to this Decision), with a general reservation and reservations with regard to Standard 28 and Recommended Practices 19 and 52, - Annex C.1 concerning outright exportation (Annex II to this Decision), with a general reservation and reservations with regard to Standard 21 and to Recommended Practice 10, - Annex F.6 concerning the repayment of import duties and taxes (Annex III to this Decision), with a general reservation and a reservation with regard to Standard 7.
BIONDI (1) OJ No L 100, 21.4.1975, p. 1.
Under certain conditions the payment of import duties and taxes may be deferred.
This procedure implies the payment of an import duties and taxes chargeable and the accomplishment of all the necessary customs formalities; (b) the term %quot%import duties and taxes%quot% means customs duties and all other duties, taxes, fees or other charges which are collected on or in connection with the importation of goods, but not including fees and charges which are limited in amount to the approximate cost of services rendered; (c) the term %quot%goods declaration%quot% means a statement made in the form prescribed by the customs, by which the persons interested indicate the customs procedure to be applied to the goods and furnish the particulars which the customs require to be declared for the application of that procedure; (d) the term %quot%declarant%quot% means the person who signs a goods declaration or in whose name it is signed; (e) the term %quot%checking of the goods declaration%quot% means the action taken by the customs to satisfy themselves that the goods declaration is properly made out, that the supporting documents required are attached and that they fulfil the conditions laid down as to their authenticity and validity; (f) the term %quot%examination of goods%quot% means the physical inspection of goods by the customs to satisfy themselves that the nature, origin, condition, quantity and value of the goods are in accordance with the particulars furnished in the goods declaration; (g) the term %quot%assessment of import duties and taxes%quot% means the determination of the amount of import duties and taxes payable; (h) the term %quot%release%quot% means the action by the customs to permit goods undergoing clearance to be placed at the disposal of the persons concerned; (ij) the term %quot%security%quot% means that which ensures to the satisfaction of the customs that an obligation to the customs will be fulfilled.
Recommended practice Where corresponding customs offices are located on a common frontier, the customs authorities of the two countries concerned should, as far as possible, correlate the business hours and the competence of those offices.
Note Withdrawal of the goods declaration for home use does not prevent the customs authorities from taking any necessary action if an offence has been discovered during the checking of the declaration or the examination of the goods.
Recommended practice The declarant should be authorized to lodge a goods declaration for home use at a competent customs office before the goods arrive at that office.
Standard The checking of the goods declaration shall be effected as soon as possible after the declaration has been accepted. 31.
Recommended practice The customs authorities should in as many cases as possible be content with a summary examination of goods declared for home use.
Note Summary examination may be considered sufficient, for example, where goods of the same description are imported frequently by a person known by the customs to be reliable, where the accuracy of the particulars given in the declaration can be checked against the supporting documents or against other evidence, or where the import duties and taxes involved are low. 40.
Recommended practice If security is required for deferred payment, persons who regularly clear goods for home use at different customs offices in the customs territory should be authorized to provide a general security. 53.
Recommended practice The amount of the security to be provided for deferred payment should not exceed the amount of the import duties and taxes potentially chargeable in respect of the goods imported during the period for which the payment of import duties and taxes is deferred.
Recommended practice The period for which payment of import duties and taxes can be deferred should be at least 14 days following the date when payment of the amount of import duties and taxes chargeable is otherwise due.
Standard Goods declared for home use shall be released as soon as the customs authorities have examined them, or decided not to examine them, provided that no offence has been found and that any import duties and taxes chargeable have been paid or that appropriate action has been taken to ensure their collection. 60.
The customs authorities may make it a condition for release that the supporting documents deemed essential have been produced and that the controls provided for in national legislation (veterinary, health, phytopathological, etc., controls) have been carried out by the competent authorities. 2.
Recommended practice On condition that no offence has been discovered during the checking of the declaration or the examination of the goods, the declarant or the person interested should not be required to pay the import duties and taxes or should be entitled to repayment thereof: - where at his request goods that have been declared for home use but have not been released are abandoned to the Revenue or destroyed or rendered commercially valueless under customs control, as the customs authorities may decide.
Standard National legislation shall specify the conditions to be fulfilled and the customs formalities to be accomplished for outright exportation.
Standard Where corresponding customs offices are located on a common frontier, the customs authorities of the countries concerned shall as far as possible correlate the business hours and the competence of those offices.
Standard Where the customs authorities undertake examination of the goods they shall, at the request of the declarant, and for reasons deemed valid, allow the examination to take place, so far as possible, at a place other than the customs office ; the expenses entailed by such examination may be charged to the declarant.
The form should be provided with a 10 mm top margin and a 20 mm left-hand filing margin.
Note Remnants of goods covered by standards 6 and 7 may be: (a) cleared for home use in their existing state as if they had been imported in that state ; or (b) re-exported ; or (c) abandoned free of all expenses to the Revenue ; or (d) rendered commercially valueless under customs control, without expense to the Revenue; as the customs authorities may require.
