Council Regulation (EC) No 1992/2003 of 27 October 2003 amending Regulation (EC) No 40/94 on the Community trade mark to give effect to the accession of the European Community to the Protocol relating to the Madrid Agreement concerning the international registration of marks adopted at Madrid on 27 June 1989 Council Regulation (EC) No 1992/2003 of 27 October 2003 amending Regulation (EC) No 40/94 on the Community trade mark to give effect to the accession of the European Community to the Protocol relating to the Madrid Agreement concerning the international registration of marks adopted at Madrid on 27 June 1989 THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular Article 308 thereof, Having regard to the proposal from the Commission(1), Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament(2), Having regard to the opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee(3), Whereas: (1) Regulation (EC) No 40/94(4) (the Community trade mark Regulation), which is based on Article 308 of the Treaty, is designed to create a market which functions properly and offers conditions which are similar to those obtaining in a national market.
SECTION 2 INTERNATIONAL REGISTRATION ON THE BASIS OF APPLICATIONS FOR A COMMUNITY TRADE MARK AND OF COMMUNITY TRADE MARKS Article 141 Filing of an international application 1.
Article 142 Form and contents of the international application 1.
Article 143 Recordal in the files and in the Register 1.
When the application results in a Community trade mark, the date and number of the international registration shall be entered in the register. 2.
Article 144 Request for territorial extension subsequent to the international registration A request for territorial extension made subsequent to the international registration pursuant to Article 3ter(2) of the Madrid Protocol may be filed through the intermediary of the Office.
Article 145 International fees Any fees payable to the International Bureau under the Madrid Protocol shall be paid direct to the International Bureau.
SECTION 3 INTERNATIONAL REGISTRATIONS DESIGNATING THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITY Article 146 Effects of international registrations designating the European Community 1.
The holder of an international registration designating the European Community may, as from the date of publication of the effects of such registration pursuant to Article 147(2), claim at the Office the seniority of an earlier trade mark registered in a Member State, including a trade mark registered in the Benelux countries, or registered under international arrangements having effect in a Member State, as provided for in Article 35.
Article 149 Examination as to absolute grounds for refusal 1.
Where protection of an international registration is refused by a decision under this Article which has become final or where the holder of the international registration has renounced the protection in respect of the European Community pursuant to paragraph 2, the Office shall refund the holder of the international registration a part of the individual fee to be laid down in the implementing Regulation.
Article 150 Search 1.
Once the Office has received a notification of an international registration designating the European Community, it shall draw up a Community search report as provided for in Article 39(1). 2.
Article 39(3), (4) and (5) shall apply mutatis mutandis. 4.
Article 152 Replacement of a Community trade mark by an international registration The Office shall, upon request, enter a notice in the Register that a Community trade mark is deemed to have been replaced by an international registration in accordance with Article 4bis of the Madrid Protocol.
Article 153 Invalidation of the effects of an international registration 1.
The application for invalidation of the effects of an international registration designating the European Community shall take the place of an application for a declaration of revocation as provided for in Article 50 or for invalidation as provided for in Article 51 or Article 52.
Article 154 Conversion of a designation of the European Community through an international registration into a national trade mark application or into a designation of Member States 1.
Articles 108 to 110 shall apply. 2.
Done at Luxembourg, 27 October 2003.
