To ensure that this provision is applied uniformly throughout the Community, it is necessary to lay down rules for determining the corrections to be made and to provide for the Commission to be informed. (3) If a Member State fails to comply with its obligations under Article 25 of Decision 2004/904/EC the Commission may itself make the financial corrections under Article 26 of Decision 2004/904/EC.
Information on recovery shall be passed on to the Commission and the accounts shall be kept in accordance with Article 3 of this Decision. 2.
The amounts to be recovered shall accrue interest from their due date at the rate laid down in accordance with Article 86 of the Implementing Rules of the Financial Regulation. 2.
Any repayment to the Commission under Article 26(3) of Decision 2004/904/EC shall be made by the deadline set in the recovery order drawn up in accordance with Article 81 of the Implementing Rules of the Financial Regulation. 2.
Any delay in effecting repayment shall give rise to interest on account of late payment, starting on the due date referred to in paragraph 1 and ending on the date of actual repayment.
A financial correction under Article 26(2) of Decision 2004/904/EC shall not prejudice the Member State’s obligation to pursue recoveries under Article 25(2) of Decision 2004/904/EC and Article 2(1) of this Decision and to recover State aid under Article 14 of Regulation (EC) No 659/1999.
Article 6 Member States may apply national rules on financial corrections that are more rigorous than those prescribed here.
Done at Brussels, 20 January 2006.
A correction at this rate is also appropriate for irregularities in an individual case which are serious but do not invalidate the whole project. 10 % correction When one or more key elements of the system do not function or function so poorly or so infrequently that they are completely ineffective in determining the eligibility of the claim or preventing irregularity, a correction of 10 % is justified, as it can reasonably be concluded that there was a high risk of widespread loss to the Fund.
A 5 % correction can also be appropriate for less serious irregularities in individual projects in relation to key elements.
There must be a serious deficiency of compliance with explicit Community rules or standards of good practice and the deficiency must expose the Fund to a real risk of loss or irregularity. 2 % correction When performance is adequate in relation to the key elements of the system, but there is a complete failure to operate one or more ancillary elements, a correction of 2 % is justified in view of the lower risk of loss to the Fund, and the lesser seriousness of the infringement.
A 2 % correction will be increased to 5 % if the same deficiency is established in relation to expenditure after the date of the first correction imposed and the Member State has failed to take adequate corrective measures for the part of the system at fault after the first correction.
A correction of 2 % is also justified where the Commission has informed the Member State, without imposing any correction, of the need to make improvements to ancillary elements of the system that are in place but do not operate satisfactorily, but the Member State has not taken the necessary action.
If there are deficiencies in relation to ancillary elements as well as in key elements, corrections are only made at the rate applicable to the key elements. 2.4.
When several deficiencies are found in the same system, the flat rates of correction are not cumulated, the most serious deficiency being taken as an indication of the risks presented by the control system as a whole [2].
In the case of the Member State's non-application of penalties prescribed by Community law, the financial correction should be the amount of the penalties not applied, together with 2 % of the remaining claims, as the non-application of penalties increases the risk that irregular claims will be submitted. 3.
Any sum due to the Commission as a result of net corrections is to be paid together with interest under Article 26(4) of Decision 2004/904/EC and in accordance with Article 3(1) of this Decision. [1] OJ L 312, 23.12.1995, p. 1. [2] See also section 2.3 (2 % correction). --------------------------------------------------
