Council Regulation (EC) No 1987/2005 of 2 December 2005 imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty and collecting definitively the provisional duty imposed on imports of granular polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) originating in Russia and the People’s Republic of China Council Regulation (EC) No 1987/2005 of 2 December 2005 imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty and collecting definitively the provisional duty imposed on imports of granular polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) originating in Russia and the People’s Republic of China THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION,THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, Having regard to Council Regulation (EC) No 384/96 of 22 December 1995 on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the European Community [1] (the basic Regulation) and in particular Articles 9 and 10(2) thereof, Having regard to the proposal submitted by the Commission after consulting the Advisory Committee, Whereas: A.
In accordance with the provision of Article 20(1) of the basic Regulation, all interested parties which requested a hearing were granted an opportunity to be heard by the Commission. (3) The Commission continued to seek and verify all information deemed necessary for the definitive findings. (4) An additional verification visit was carried out at the premises of the following companies: - Heroflon (Italy), granular PTFE transformer, - Fluorseals (Italy), granular PTFE processor. (5) All parties were informed of the essential facts and considerations on the basis of which it was intended to recommend the imposition of a definitive anti-dumping duty and the definitive collection of amounts secured by way of provisional duty.
Product concerned (7) The provisional Regulation described the product concerned as granular polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE), containing not more than 3 % of other monomer unit than tetrafluoroethylene, without fillers, in the form of powder or pellets, with the exclusion of micronised material.
The product concerned is currently classifiable within CN code ex39046100. (8) One users’/importers’ organisation (the European Fluoropolymer Fair Trade Association or EFFTA) and one exporters’ association objected to the provisional conclusions that all granular PTFE constitute a single product.
The definitive findings revealed that granular PTFE is not used in any of the aforementioned applications. (11) Taking into account the abovementioned considerations, the product definition and the provisional findings set out in recital 14 of the provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed. 2.
Like product (12) A number of importers and users reiterated that the granular PTFE produced and sold in the Community market could not be likened to the products imported from the PRC and Russia.
These parties did not, however, come forward with new information or evidence in this matter. (13) It should first be noted that, as outlined in recital 16 of the provisional Regulation, the investigation has shown that the Community industry also produced and sold scrap or "off-spec" material during the investigation period (IP) to the same customers as the exporting producers concerned.
On the other hand, the investigation revealed that at least the Russian exporting producers sold a quality of granular PTFE to the Community, which was, even without post-treatment, comparable to the high quality Community grades, albeit in very limited quantities.
Furthermore, even low quality granular PTFE imported from the countries concerned could, after post-treatment, be used in a similar range of applications as the product produced and sold in the Community market by the Community industry. (14) Considering the above, it was concluded that the product concerned and the granular PTFE produced and sold in the Community by the Community industry share the same physical and technical characteristics and the same basic end-uses.
They were therefore considered to be alike within the meaning of Article 1(4) of the basic Regulation. (15) In the absence of any other comments in this regard, the provisional conclusions set out in recital 15 of the provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed.
This is mainly due to the fact that, as outlined in recital 33 of the provisional Regulation, the relationship of this company to the State-owned shareholder was unclear and the Articles of Association were considered unreliable.
Therefore, it was concluded that Article 9(5)(c) is not fulfilled and IT should therefore be rejected. (19) In the absence of any other comments, the findings of the provisional Regulation, as set out in recital 45 of that Regulation, are hereby confirmed. 1.3.
Two of them reiterated the comments made before the imposition of provisional measures, which have already been addressed in recitals 47 to 54 of the provisional Regulation.
Nevertheless, as mentioned in recital 54 of the provisional Regulation, the different level of overall economic development is, in itself, not a relevant factor when selecting an analogue country.
Thus, a simple comparison of prices in the non-market economy country or in the country with an economy in transition with those in the analogue country is as such not meaningful.
This argument was therefore also rejected. (23) In the absence of any other comments, the findings set out in recitals 47 to 54 of the provisional Regulation regarding the choice of the USA as an appropriate analogue country are hereby confirmed. 1.4.
Export price (26) In the absence of any comments by the interested parties, the methodology set out in recital 59 of the provisional Regulation is hereby confirmed. 1.6.
Comparison (27) One Chinese exporting producer argued that the adjustment for physical differences outlined in recital 62 of the provisional Regulation would not properly reflect the actual difference in production costs and the adjustment made should therefore be revised appropriately.
It should be noted that the adjustment made for the determination of the provisional dumping margin was based on a reasonable estimate of the difference in market value in the USA, in accordance with Article 2(10)(a) of the basic Regulation.
In the absence of any other comments, the findings on comparison, as set out in recitals 60 to 64 of the provisional Regulation, are hereby confirmed. 2.
It was claimed that the deficiencies would only have a minor impact on the findings and that the figures supplied by the companies would, overall, be sufficiently reliable to be used for the determination of dumping. (33) A re-examination was made of all information submitted by the two companies in their responses to the questionnaire and during the on-the-spot verification, as well as of all the information submitted by the companies following the disclosure of the provisional findings.
Therefore, and for the reasons set out in recital 71 of the provisional Regulation, available facts had to be used in accordance with Article 18 of the basic Regulation.
Consequently, the findings of recitals 70 to 74 and the conclusion in recital 75 of the provisional Regulation, namely that the dumping margins for both exporting producers could not be established on the basis of their own data but had to be based on facts available in accordance with Article 18 of the basic Regulation, is hereby confirmed. 2.2.
Normal value (36) In the absence of any comments by the interested parties, the methodology set out in recital 76 of the provisional Regulation is hereby confirmed. 2.3.
In the absence of any more reliable information available, this methodology was maintained for the determination of the definitive dumping margin. (39) One company claimed that in order to establish its export price, the information of two unrelated importers accounting for more than 80 % of its sales to the Community during the investigation period should be used.
Therefore, the data provided did not allow a determination of the export price on that basis and the claim had to be rejected. (40) In the absence of any other information, the methodology as outlined in recital 77 of the provisional Regulation was maintained and the export price was calculated on the basis of Eurostat data. 2.4.
Comparison (41) In the absence of any comments by the interested parties, the findings of recitals 78 and 79 of the provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed. 3.
Dumping margin (42) In the absence of any comments by the interested parties, the methodology for the calculation of the dumping margins as set out in recitals 24, 65 to 68 and 80 to 82 of the provisional Regulation are herewith confirmed.
Considering the above, the definitive dumping margins, expressed as a percentage of the cif import price at the Community border, are: Exporting country | Dumping margin | PRC | 99,7 % | Russia | 36,6 % | D.
To support their claim, the exporting producers argued that the decrease in the Community industry’s profitability from 2002 onwards coincided with a decrease of imports originating in Russia, while in 2001, when imports from Russia were at their highest, the Community industry enjoyed high profit margins.
The exporter concluded that on this basis material injury could not have been caused by imports originating in Russia and that cumulation was therefore not warranted. (45) It is noted that, as set out in recital 90 of the provisional Regulation, price trends from both Russia and the PRC, are similar.
Therefore, and in view of the arguments set out in recitals 89 to 92 of the provisional Regulation, there are no reasons to conclude that Russian imports should be decumulated.
The abovementioned argument was consequently rejected. (46) In the absence of any further comments in this particular respect, the findings in recitals 88 to 93 of the provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed. 3.
Imports from the countries concerned 3.1.
Volume, market share and prices of the imports concerned (47) In the absence of any comments in this particular respect, the findings in recitals 94 to 96 of the provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed. 3.2.
The determination of post-importation costs at provisional stage was based on actual data provided by the two cooperating importers.
This claim had consequently to be rejected. (49) One Chinese exporting producer pointed to a clerical error when calculating the adjustment for import duties.
Finally, information was submitted regarding sales of high quality product types produced by the Russian exporting producers, which did not need any post-treatment. (52) It was found that certain granular PTFE types produced by Russian exporting producers indeed reached higher quality standards and could thus be used without any further treatment.
However, these product types were only sold in negligible quantities during the IP and mainly for testing purposes.
Thus, on the basis of the information available from the cooperating users, imports of such higher quality granular PTFE from Russia constituted only 1,4 % of their total imports from that country. (53) It was further found that all other imported granular PTFE grades needed post-treatment, which consisted mainly in heating and further milling.
The Community industry’s arguments had therefore to be rejected. (54) On the other hand, one Russian exporting producer and one importer of granular PTFE from Russia claimed that even after post-treatment the granular PTFE exported by this exporting producer would still be of a lower quality than the granular PTFE produced and sold by the Community industry on the Community market.
The exporting producer added that the post-treatment would only balance quality differences with regard to the particle size and the impurity of the product, excluding, however, other key quality parameters, such as tensile strength and elongation, which would have a considerable impact on the intrinsic quality of the Russian granular PTFE and consequently on the quality of the semi-finished product.
In order to substantiate this claim, the abovementioned importer submitted information on testing results which allegedly showed quality differences between granular PTFE produced by Community producers and post-treated granular PTFE imported from Russia.
Thus, the adjustment amounted to 36,7 % of the purchase price of the users/importers concerned. (57) Taken into consideration the abovementioned corrections and in the absence of any other comments, recitals 97 to 98 of the provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed. (58) On the basis of the above, the comparison on a per-model basis showed that the product concerned originating in the PRC and Russia was sold in the Community at prices which undercut those of the Community industry by 20,5 and 13,5 % respectively during the IP, when expressed as a percentage of the Community industry’s prices. 3.3.
General remarks (59) Certain interested parties pointed to the positive trends of certain injury factors and claimed that it would not be sufficient that other injury indicators such as sales prices and profitability showed negative trends to conclude that material injury had been suffered by the Community industry. (60) It should first be noted that Article 3(5) of the basic Regulation provides that while the impact of dumped imports on the Community industry shall be examined on the basis of an evaluation of all relevant economic factors and indices, none of these factors on its own or together with others can necessarily give decisive guidance.
It is therefore not required that all injury factors show a negative trend in order to conclude that the Community industry suffered material injury. (61) On this basis, in order to determine whether the Community industry suffered material injury, it is important that its overall financial situation be considered.
In the present case and as outlined in recital 117 of the provisional Regulation, the positive trend of certain injury indicators has to be seen in the context of the overall significant negative effects of the imports under consideration on the performance of the Community industry and the latter’s reaction to this.
Production, production capacity and capacity utilisation (63) Some interested parties argued that the Community industry was able to increase its production capacity, volume and capacity utilisation, while consumption in the Community was decreasing, which would not point to an injurious situation of the Community industry. (64) In fact, the decrease in consumption (by 12 %) was only felt in 2002, when the Community industry’s production volume decreased in line by 13 %, which is also translated into a decrease in the capacity utilisation during the same year.
As a consequence and as outlined in recital 102 of the provisional Regulation, the Community industry had to lower its sales prices, thereby increasing its sales volume in order to be able to compete with the dumped imports.
Nevertheless, even the sales volume of the Community industry decreased slightly during 2002. (65) Furthermore, the development of the production volume should also be seen in the more global context than solely in relation to the development of the Community consumption.
Thus, as mentioned in recital 134 of the provisional Regulation, export sales of the Community industry were slightly increasing, which had also an impact on production figures.
Furthermore, the increase in the production volume of granular PTFE is partly explained by the fact that some Community producers increased the internal use of granular PTFE for the production of, for example, compounds and micronised grades.
Finally, the overall increase of production volume and production capacity during the period considered is also part of the Community industry’s attempt to react to the dumped imports by trying to increase sales volume, albeit at the expense of sales prices and profitability. (66) Therefore, the findings set out in recitals 101 and 102 of the provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed. 3.3.3.
Sales volume and market share (67) Likewise, some interested parties argued that the increase in sales volume and market share, in particular with a parallel decrease in demand, would clearly indicate that the Community industry did not suffer material injury.
Thus, although imports and market share from Russia declined from 2001 to 2002 significantly, they dropped only marginally between 2002 and 2003 and even increased slightly during the IP.
Therefore, the argument of the Russian exporting producer had to be rejected. (69) It is therefore reiterated that the development of the Community industry’s sales volume and market share has to be seen in correlation with the parallel decrease in sales value and unit prices due to the dumped imports and the consequent significant negative impact on the Community industry’s profitability.
As mentioned in recital 61 of this Regulation, in order to reach a meaningful conclusion on the overall financial situation of the Community industry, the positive development of these indicators should not be considered in isolation but together with the development of the remaining injury indicators. (70) In the absence of any other comments in this particular regard, the findings set out in recitals 103 and 104 of the provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed. 3.3.4.
Stocks (71) One Chinese and the two Russian exporting producers also argued that the stocks of the Community industry decreased significantly between 2003 and the IP, which would indicate that no material injury was suffered. (72) It is noted that stock movements during the period considered were not significant and did not show a clear trend.
Indeed, while stocks decreased by 13 % between 2001 and 2002, they increased by 23 percentage points between 2002 and 2003 and then decreased again by 17 percentage points in the IP.
Moreover, it should also be noted that the decrease in stocks between 2003 and the IP only amounted to 216 tons which corresponds to 4,3 % of the sales volume of the Community industry in 2003 and 3,9 % during the IP. (73) In any event, the Community industry produced granular PTFE mainly to order and products kept in stock are usually goods awaiting dispatch to customers.
Therefore, the increase in stock in 2003 is rather due to a delay in delivery and cannot be seen as a meaningful injury indicator because it has no impact as such on the Community industry’s financial situation.
Therefore, in this case the development of stock was not considered as a meaningful injury indicator. (74) Some interested parties also argued that the increase in stock in 2003, namely the year prior to the IP, caused injury to the Community industry because the Community industry would have been forced to sell this increased stock at lower prices during the IP.
As already mentioned in recital 73, production was made to order and therefore, the increase in stock in 2003 is likely due to a delay in delivery, whereas customers and prices were already determined.
In any case, the increase in stocks of 283 tons in 2003 cannot be considered as significant as it only represents 5,6 % of the sales volume of that year.
It was therefore concluded that this increase in stock prior to the IP could not cause the material injury suffered by the Community industry. (75) This claim had therefore to be rejected and the findings of recital 105 of the provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed. 3.3.5.
Sales prices (76) The same exporting producers argued that the negative trend in the Community’s sales prices would not be a meaningful injury indicator since sales prices of granular PTFE have decreased globally as a consequence of market forces.
One exporting producer also questioned the correctness of the calculations without, however, providing any further detail in how far the calculations would not be correct. (77) As far as the calculation of the Community industry’s sales prices is concerned, no error was detected in the provisional calculations which are therefore confirmed. (78) It is reiterated that sales prices in the Community dropped significantly during the period considered which had a considerable impact on the Community industry’s profitability.
It is therefore confirmed that prices are a very meaningful injury indicator in this investigation and the exporting producer’s claim in this respect had to be rejected. (79) More specifically as far as the argument of the alleged global price decrease is concerned, no factors were found which would point, for example, to cost reductions underlying such price decrease.
The remainder of this argument is more linked to the question of a causal link and will therefore be addressed below in recitals 106 and 107. (80) In the absence of any other comment in this particular regard, the findings of recital 106 of the provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed. 3.3.6.
Growth (81) It was argued that the provisional determinations failed to explain the growth of the Community industry, in particular in comparison to the shrinking Community consumption for the period considered.
Since the growth of the Community industry was determined by the development of its market share, reference is made to recital 103 of the provisional Regulation and to recitals 67 and 69 of this Regulation. 3.3.7.
Investments and ability to raise capital (82) One Chinese exporting producer objected to the provisional conclusions that the ability to raise capital was not a meaningful injury indicator. (83) As outlined in recital 109 of the provisional Regulation, it was found that, since the Community producers are part of larger groups and therefore financed via intra-group cash pooling systems, the ability to raise capital was not a meaningful injury indicator, as it would normally not be affected, even if some producers of such larger groups are in a particularly injurious situation.
The claim therefore had to be rejected and the findings of recitals 108 and 109 of the provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed. 3.3.8.
Profitability, return on investments and cash flow (84) Some exporting producers also observed that there has been an increase in the Community industry’s profitability between 2003 and the IP, which would not have been considered in the provisional findings. (85) This claim has to be rejected, given that the development of the Community industry’s profitability over the entire period considered was analysed in the provisional Regulation.
Thus, the increase in the profitability between 2003 and the IP could not reverse the conclusion of the overall significant decrease of profitability between 2001 and the IP, namely by 9,2 percentage points.
It was therefore concluded that this injury factor showed a clear negative trend during the period considered. (86) In the absence of any other comments in this particular regard, the findings of recitals 110 and 111 of the provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed. 3.3.9.
Employment and productivity (87) The Chinese as well as the two Russian exporting producers reiterated their arguments on the development of employment and productivity, suggesting that these factors would not point to material injury.
In the absence of any new information in this regard, the provisional conclusions as set out in recital 112 of the provisional Regulation are maintained. 3.3.10.
Increase in the Community industry’s exports (88) Finally, the abovementioned exporting producers argued that the Community industry’s increasing export performance during the period considered would show that it did not suffer material injury. (89) In this context, it should be clarified that recital 134 of the provisional Regulation erroneously indicated that the increase in exports was 3 % during the period considered.
Correctly, exports of the Community industry increased by 54 %.
However, as correctly indicated in the same recital of the provisional Regulation, these increased exports constituted only 12,7 % of the Community industry’s total sales volume during the IP.
Thus, it is confirmed that in absolute terms, the increase was not significant (namely roughly 250 tons).
Therefore, although increasing, export sales still represented only a small part of the Community industry’s total sales.
On this basis, it was not considered as an indication that the Community industry was in good health. 3.3.11.
Wages (90) In the absence of any comment in this particular regard, the findings in recital 113 of the provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed. 3.3.12.
Magnitude of the dumping margin (91) In the absence of any comment in this particular regard, the findings in recital 114 of the provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed. 3.3.13.
Conclusions on injury (93) As far as the arguments of certain interested parties which were based on information submitted in the complaint are concerned, it should be noted that provisional findings were based on verified data of the Community producers during the IP. (94) On this basis, despite the positive trend of some injury factors, it was concluded that the overall financial situation of the Community industry has significantly declined during the period considered and that it had suffered material injury during the IP. (95) Therefore, the findings set out in recitals 101 to 120 of the provisional Regulation concerning the situation of the Community industry and the conclusion on injury are hereby confirmed.
Effects on dumped imports (96) In the absence of any comments in this particular respect, the findings in recitals 122 to 126 of the provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed. 2.
It was also argued that a comparison between the decrease in consumption and the decrease of the Community market value as in recital 127 of the provisional Regulation is irrelevant since sales prices do not only depend on the development of consumption and demand but also on supply. (98) While it is not disputed that under normal competitive conditions prices are the result of supply and demand, it is recalled that in this case normal market conditions were distorted by uncompetitive behaviour, i.e.
The direct correlation between the decrease in consumption and the Community industry’s prices could therefore not be established and it was concluded that the development of consumption could not have such an impact that the injury resulting from the dumped imports could no longer be classified as material.
Indeed, the dumped imports represent a significant market share (about 35 %) and have been made at very low prices.
Therefore, the comparison between market value and consumption was a valid, albeit not the only indicator with which to assess whether the price decline of the Community industry was due to the dumped imports. (101) In the absence of any other comment in this particular regard, the findings in recitals 127 to 129 of the provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed. 2.2.
Imports originating in third countries other than Russia and the PRC (102) In the absence of any comments in this particular regard, the findings in recital 130 of the provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed. 2.3.
As mentioned in recital 103 of the provisional Regulation, producers, when faced with low-priced imports, have the choice to either maintain their sales prices at the expense of a negative development of their sales volume and market share, or to lower their sales prices in order to preserve, as far as possible, economies of scale and to defend their position in the market.
It is therefore not unusual that different producers opt for different strategies and that the injury suffered by these producers is translated into the negative development of either their market share or their sales prices or a combination of both and a consequent loss of their profitability.
Therefore, the decline of the sales prices of the Community industry is rather due to this general downward trend than to the dumped imports from the countries concerned. (107) It should be noted that an analysis of import prices, as recorded by Eurostat, in general, and from Switzerland and the USA in particular, revealed that these were largely above the import price level of the PRC and Russia, as well as those of the Community industry.
Therefore, it was concluded that third countries and the non-complainant Community producers did not exert a competitive pressure on prices which could be regarded as a significant source of injury. (108) It is further noted that as mentioned above, although Community consumption was decreased significantly from 2001 to 2002, it remained fairly stable afterwards and even increased slightly.
Consequently, the granular PTFE market cannot be considered as a shrinking market. (109) On the basis of the above, it was concluded that the general economic downward trend during the period considered did not break the causal link between the dumped imports from the PRC and Russia and the material injury suffered by the Community industry. 2.5.
In this respect, it should be noted that the conclusion of recital 135 in the provisional Regulation was based on data which were verified during the different on-the-spot investigations at the premises of the European producers.
Therefore, these claims were rejected. (111) Another exporting producer claimed that the Community industry lowered its sales prices to unnecessary low levels, which would be evidenced by the fact that the Community industry increased sales volume and gained (instead of merely maintained) market share during the period considered.
Furthermore, it was alleged that the loss in profitability was rather due to an increase of unit costs, as a consequence of low capacity utilisation rates and an increase in wages, than to the imports under consideration. (112) It should first be noted that, in contrast to this exporting producers’ allegation, the production cost of the Community decreased during the period considered, which was therefore not considered as a cause for the loss of the Community industry’s profitability.
It is recalled that the imports under consideration significantly undercut the Community industry’s prices throughout the period considered, which could not be outweighed by the Community industry’s increase in market share. (113) On the basis of the above, it was concluded that, since the Community industry had efficient production processes and decreasing production costs, the material injury suffered by the Community industry was not self-inflicted.
Given these low quantities, it was concluded that, even if unprofitable, captive sales could not break the causal link between the dumped imports from the PRC and Russia and the material injury suffered by the Community industry. 2.7.
No competition between granular PTFE imported from Russia and the PRC and the PTFE produced and sold by the Community industry (116) One exporting producer claimed that since the granular PTFE imported from the countries concerned would be of an overall lower quality and would not compete with the product sold by the Community industry in the Community market, any injury suffered by the Community industry cannot have been caused by the imports under consideration. (117) In this respect, it is recalled that in recitals 12 to 14 of this Regulation it was concluded that despite different possible product types, including quality differences, the granular PTFE produced by the Community industry and the product concerned imported from the countries concerned have the same physical characteristics and essentially the same basic end-uses.
As set out in recitals 16, 90 and 92 of the provisional Regulation and in recital 10 of this Regulation, the investigation also confirmed that all imported product types are in competition with those produced and sold by the Community industry on the Community market.
Exports by the Community industry (118) As mentioned in recital 89 of this Regulation, the increase of export sales from the Community industry was in fact 54 %.
However, the main conclusions in recital 134 of the provisional Regulation, i.e.
Therefore, and in the absence of any other comments in this particular regard, the findings in recital 134 of the provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed. 2.9.
In any case, as already concluded in recital 118 of this Regulation, the Community industry export sales increased by 54 % during the period considered.
As indicated in recital 134 of the provisional Regulation, the profit margin realised by the Community industry on these export sales was higher than the one realised on sales in the Community market.
On the other hand, imports from other countries into the Community representing roughly 25 % of the Community consumption were made at significantly higher prices than those from Russia and the PRC, despite the depreciation of the USD.
Conclusion on causation (122) Based on the abovementioned considerations and other elements contained in recitals 121 to 138 of the provisional Regulation, it is concluded that dumped imports from Russia and the PRC have caused material injury to the Community industry within the meaning of Article 3(6) of the basic Regulation.
COMMUNITY INTEREST 1.
Financial impact on users (123) Several users reiterated their main concern that the imposition of definitive measures would have a serious adverse impact on their financial situation since they would not be able to pass on the expected increase in costs resulting from the imposition of anti-dumping measures to their customers. (124) In this regard, subsequent to provisional disclosure, five users/processors not cooperating so far were contacted and invited to fill in a questionnaire.
It was found that a number of these users were importing the majority of the granular PTFE used in their production/processing process from the countries under consideration.
These users represented a large part of the total imports from Russia and the PRC, as well as the total Community consumption.
The users already cooperating prior to the imposition of provisional measures and the ones coming forward after imposition of provisional duties were also invited to submit additional information regarding their cost of production, with a view to complementing the data used for the provisional findings and to allow a detailed, in-depth analysis of all aspects of the situation of different users, in particular to calculate the precise impact of the anti-dumping measures on their profitability.
In this hypothetical worst case scenario, for two companies, sourcing between 70 and 80 % of granular PTFE from the countries under consideration, the impact of the measures on their profitability was estimated to be up to 7,5 %.
For the remaining cooperating users, importing less than 30 % of their raw material from the countries under consideration, the impact, under the assumption that the price increase would not even be partly passed on to their customers, was estimated at a maximum of 2,7 %. (127) It should be noted, however, that the investigation also confirmed that price increases in the Community, as a consequence of the imposition of anti-dumping measures, will very likely be passed on to the final customer.
For these reasons, it is concluded that users will in all likelihood be able to pass on a considerable part of the cost increase to their customers, so that the estimated impact of anti-dumping measures on their profitability should, in reality, be much more limited than in the worst case scenario. (128) Secondly, it should be noted that, even if the price increase could not be partly passed on, which is not a realistic hypothesis, the impact on the profitability of the above four cooperating users would not appear to be disproportionate.
One of the cooperating producers, for which the estimated impact of any anti-dumping measure would be slightly more than 1 %, already realised significant losses during the IP, which were not linked to the anti-dumping measures.
It should also be noted that, as mentioned in recital 147 of the provisional Regulation, the impact of the anti-dumping duties on certain users is negligible due to the fact that granular PTFE constitutes a rather low proportion of their overall costs. (130) Furthermore, it should be noted that all cooperating users have a significant business outside the Community.
This should be taken into account, when balancing the possible negative impact of measures on users against the positive effects on other interested parties, in particular the Community industry. (132) For all the abovementioned reasons, it is concluded that the likely effect of measures on users would not be disproportionate.
Imports of semi-finished and finished products (133) Certain users also claimed that they would be placed in a situation of competition distortion vis-à-vis producers in the countries concerned of semi-finished and finished products not subject to anti-dumping duties, in particular because such producers would shift their exports to the Community from granular PTFE to semi-finished and finished products.
As a consequence, users in the Community would need to relocate part of their business outside the European Community in order to have access to cheaper raw material. (134) As regards the semi-finished and finished products, it was found that the threat of increasing imports of cheaper semi-finished and finished downstream products from the countries concerned is not imminent.
It is noted that according to some operators in the market, imports of semi-finished products from the countries concerned indeed appeared to have an increasing trend.
Employment (136) It was also argued that the processing industry employs by far more people than the granular PTFE producers in the Community and that those jobs would be in danger should anti-dumping measures be imposed. (137) The investigation revealed that the information submitted by the users’/importers’ organisation concerned with regard to employment was largely overestimated.
Therefore, should the Community industry disappear these jobs would be equally in danger. 4.
Shortage of supply (138) A number of parties also reiterated that the imposition of definitive duties would lead to a shortage of supply because it would prevent the exporting producers from the PRC and Russia from exporting their products to the Community, while the Community industry would not have sufficient capacity to supply the Community demand.
Finally, it was argued that reactor bead would not be sold at all in the Community, while pre-sintered grades are only produced in limited quantities in the Community, thus users would be dependent on imports from the countries under consideration. (139) It should be recalled that the Community industry’s capacity is 9200 tons, at 80 % capacity utilisation.
The sales volume during the IP was about 4845 tons.
This implies that the complaining producers would be able to sell an additional 4355 tons of the like product, which is 85 % of the total imports of the countries concerned.
The argument that the Community industry would not use this free capacity to produce granular PTFE, due to the low profit margins generated by the sales of this product, had to be rejected.
Therefore, granular PTFE, including the product types for which a shortage was alleged, from the countries concerned can continue to enter the Community market, albeit at higher price levels. (143) Based on the abovementioned considerations and other elements contained in recitals 139 to 153 of the provisional Regulation, it is concluded that no compelling reasons exist for not imposing anti-dumping measures on import of the product concerned originating in Russia and the PRC.
DEFINITIVE ANTI-DUMPING MEASURES 1.
Injury elimination level (144) Based on the methodology set out in recitals 154 to 159 of the provisional Regulation, an injury elimination level was calculated for the purpose of establishing the level of measures to be definitively imposed. (145) One of the Russian exporting producers claimed that the adjustment for differences in the level of trade should have been based on the information provided by the fully cooperating unrelated importer which accounted for the major part of its imports.
Alternatively, this exporting producer claimed that in order to calculate the adjustment for the level of trade, the cif import price should be compared to the resale price of the importer in question in the Community.
However, it was found that this methodology would not lead to more reliable results than the methodology used for the provisional determinations.
In contrast, the information available, in particular the audited accounts of the importer, confirmed that the estimations made in the provisional determinations were reasonable. (146) Both Russian exporting producers also claimed that the comparison of their export price to the non-injurious price should have been made on a per-model basis.
In this context, it is recalled that, as outlined in recitals 28 to 40 of this Regulation, findings for both Russian exporting producers had to be based on facts available in accordance with Article 18 of the basic Regulation.
This claim had therefore to be rejected. (147) A number of parties contested the level of profit of 9,3 % used for the calculation of the provisional underselling margin, claiming that it was too high.
In particular, it was argued that it should be taken into consideration that the granular PTFE market is shrinking and cost of production is increasing, therefore the Community industry would not have been able to achieve 9,3 % profit in the absence of dumped imports.
It is also noted that, as mentioned in recital 112 of this Regulation cost of production decreased during the period considered.
In the absence of any new information, the methodology used for establishing the injury margin as described in recitals 156 to 159 of the provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed. 2.
Definitive duties (149) In the light of the foregoing, it is considered that a definitive anti-dumping duty should be imposed at the level of the dumping margin found, but should not be higher than the injury margin calculated in accordance with Article 9(4) of the basic Regulation. (150) The proposed definitive duty rates, expressed as a percentage of the CIF Community border price, customs duty unpaid, are as follows: Exporting country | Injury elimination margin | Dumping margin | Proposed anti-dumping duty | PRC | 55,5 % | 99,7 % | 55,5 % | Russia | 40,0 % | 36,6 % | 36,6 % | (151) In order to ensure a proper enforcement of the anti-dumping duty, the residual duty level should not only apply to the non-cooperating exporter, but also to those companies which did not have any exports during the IP.
Moreover, the investigation revealed that the accounts of the company concerned were not reliable so that the monitoring of the undertaking would have proved impractical. (153) The two Russian exporting producers also made proposals for offering an undertaking.
However, as stated in recitals 28 to 35 of this Regulation, the findings with regard to both exporting producers had to be made on the basis of the facts available.
A definitive anti-dumping duty is hereby imposed on imports of so-called granular polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE), containing not more than 3 % of other monomer unit than tetrafluoroethylene, without fillers, in the form of powder or pellets, with the exclusion of micronised material (namely fluoropolymer micropowder as defined by norm ASTM D5675-04) falling within CN code ex39046100 (TARIC code 3904610050) and originating in Russia and the PRC.
The aforementioned product description also covers such products presented as raw polymer (reactor bead) in wet or dry form. 2.
The rate of the definitive anti-dumping duty applicable to the net, free-at-Community-frontier price, before duty, of the products described in paragraph 1, shall be as follows: Country | Rate of duty | PRC | 55,5 % | Russia | 36,6 % | 3.
Article 2 The amounts secured by way of provisional anti-dumping duties pursuant to Commission Regulation (EC) No 862/2005 on imports of so called granular polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE), containing not more than 3 % of other monomer unit than tetrafluoroethylene, without fillers, in the form of powder or pellets, with the exclusion of micronised material, and its raw polymer (reactor bead), the latter in wet or dry form, falling within CN code ex39046100 (TARIC code 3904610050) and originating in Russia and the PRC shall be collected at the rate of the duty definitively imposed.
Amounts secured in excess of the definitive rate of anti-dumping duties shall be released.
Article 3 This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Done at Brussels, 2 December 2005.
Beckett [1] OJ L 56, 6.3.1996, p. 1.
Regulation as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 461/2004 (OJ L 77, 13.3.2004, p. 12). [2] OJ L 144, 8.6.2005, p. 11. --------------------------------------------------
