2006/171/EC: Commission Decision of 3 May 2005 declaring a concentration compatible with the common market and the functioning of the EEA Agreement (Case COMP/M.3178 %mdash% Bertelsmann/Springer/JV) (notified under document number C(2005) 1368) (Text with EEA relevance) Commission Decision of 3 May 2005 declaring a concentration compatible with the common market and the functioning of the EEA Agreement (Case COMP/M.3178 — Bertelsmann/Springer/JV) (notified under document number C(2005) 1368) (Only the English text is authentic) (Text with EEA relevance) (2006/171/EC) On 3 May 2005 the Commission adopted a Decision in a merger case under Council Regulation (EC) No 139/2004 of 20 January 2004 on the control of concentrations between undertakings [1], and in particular Article 8(1) of that Regulation.
A non-confidential version of the full Decision can be found in the authentic language of the case and in the working languages of the Commission on the website of the Directorate-General for Competition, at the following address: http://europa.eu.int/comm/competition/index_en.html (1) On 4 November 2004, the Commission received a notification under Article 4 of Council Regulation (EC) No 139/2004 ("the Merger Regulation") a proposed concentration by which the German undertakings Bertelsmann AG ("Bertelsmann"), its solely controlled subsidiary Gruner+Jahr AG %amp% Co.
Bertelsmann (and G+J) and Springer are collectively referred to as "the Parties". (2) On 29 November 2004 the German competition authority, the Bundeskartellamt, informed the Commission that the proposed concentration would threaten to affect significantly competition, either in the German market for rotogravure printing, or, in the alternative in the German market for time-critical print products, in particular magazines. (3) By decision dated 23 December 2004, the Commission found that the notified operation raised serious doubts as to its compatibility with the common market and the functioning of the EEA Agreement.
NewCo constitutes a full-function joint venture and is jointly controlled by Bertelsmann and Springer. (7) The Advisory Committee on Concentrations, at its 131st meeting on 22 April 2005, with majority supported the Commission’s proposal to issue a clearance decision [2]. (8) The Hearing Officer, in a report dated 27 April 2005, took the view that the right of the parties to be heard had been respected [3].
THE RELEVANT MARKETS Relevant Product Markets (9) With respect to the relevant product markets, the Commission’s market investigation focused on the question whether and to what extent rotogravure and offset printing are interchangeable techniques and whether the different printing applications, namely magazines, catalogues and advertisements constitute separate product markets. (10) The market investigation has shown that rotogravure printing can generally not be substituted by offset printing.
The market investigation has confirmed that offset printing does not constitute a competitive constraint for rotogravure printing of magazines with more than 64 pages and more than 360000 copies as well as for catalogues and advertisements with more than 64 pages and more than 450000 copies. (11) A rotogravure printing press can print magazines, advertisements and catalogues.
The relevant geographic market for catalogues can be defined as Germany plus the neighbouring countries (France, Belgium, Netherlands, Luxemburg, Switzerland, Austria, Czech Republic, Poland, Denmark) as well as Italy and Slovakia, covering the large foreign printers in this areas such as Quebecor, RotoSmeets, Mondadori, Ilte, Rotocalcografica and Ringier. (15) Advertisement printing for German customers is apparently to a large extent done in Germany.
Market for the rotogravure printing of catalogues and advertising (17) The Commission found that in the market for rotogravure printing of catalogues and advertising, the market shares of NewCo would amount to [20-25] % [4] on a market including Germany, its neighbouring countries, and Italy and Slovakia according to the estimations of the parties on the basis of the volumes for 2003.
Apart from this, in all other possible geographic markets in the EEA the market shares of the joint venture do not give rise to competition concerns [5]. 2.
Market for the rotogravure printing of magazines (18) The market share of the joint venture in the German merchant market for rotogravure printing of magazines will be around [0-50] % [4].
Imports account for [0-5] % [4], which are to a very considerable extent supplied by Burda’s printing facilities in Vieux-Thann/France and Bratislava/Slovakia.
On the basis of a careful approach of a maximum capacity utilisation of 95 % and the figures submitted for 2003, it appears safe to assume a spare capacity for magazine printing of the German competitors of 17 kt. (22) Capacity by shifting: Rotogravure printers can switch their capacity from catalogue and advertising printing to magazine printing only to a limited extent.
On this basis, the three German printers could make available together approximately 130 kt for magazine printing which would account for a very large share of the entire capacity used by the parties for printing third parties’ magazines ([150-200 kt] [4] in 2003).
In addition credible potential competitors as mentioned above can enter the market. (27) On the basis of the above calculations, the three most important German competitors, namely Schlott, TSB and Burda, would be able to offer approximately additional 197 kt (17 kt spare capacity, 130 kt production shifting, 50 kt net capacity extension) for magazine printing in response to a potential price increase for the printing of German magazines while the Parties’ merchant market volume equals [100-150 kt] [4].
CONCLUSION (29) For the reasons set out above, the Commission concluded that the proposed concentration does not significantly impede effective competition in the common market or a substantial part of it, in particular as a result of the creation or strengthening of a dominant position, and that it does not restrict competition within the meaning of Article 2(4) of the Merger Regulation and Article 81 of the Treaty.
