Article 2 The list of pharmacologically active substances used in veterinary medicinal products in respect of which maximum residue limits have been established shall be contained in Annex I, which shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 8.
Except as provided for in Article 9, any amendments to Annex I shall be adopted in accordance with the same procedure.
Article 3 Where, following an evaluation of a pharmacologically active substance used in veterinary medicinal products, it appears that it is not necessary for the protection of public health to establish a maximum residue limit, that substance shall be included in a list in Annex II, which shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 8.
Except as provided for in Article 9, any amendments to Annex II shall be adopted in accordance with the same procedure.
Article 4 A provisional maximum residue limit may be established for a pharmacologically active substance used in veterinary medicinal products on the date of entry into force of this Regulation, provided that there are no grounds for supposing that residues of the substance concerned at the level proposed present a hazard for the health of the consumer.
The list of pharmacologically active substances used in veterinary medicinal products in respect of which provisional maximum residue limits have been established shall be contained in Annex III, which shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 8.
Except as provided for in Article 9, any amendments to Annex III shall be adopted in accordance with the same procedure.
Except as provided for in Article 9, any amendments to Annex IV shall be adopted in accordance with the same procedure.
In order to obtain the inclusion in Annex I, II, or III of a new pharmacologically active substance which is: - intended for use in veterinary medicinal products for administration to food-producing animals, and - intended to be placed on the market of one or more Member States which have not previously authorized the use of the substance concerned in food-producing animals, the person responsible for marketing shall submit an application to the Commission.
After verifying within a period of 30 days that the application is submitted in correct form, the Commission shall forthwith submit the application for examination by the Committee for Veterinary Medicinal Products set up under Article 16 of Directive 81/851/EEC.
Within 120 days of referral of the application to the Committee for Veterinary Medicinal Products, and having regard to the observations formulated by the members of the Committee, the Commission shall prepare a draft of the measures to be taken.
Within 90 days of receipt of the additional information referred to in paragraph 3, the Commission shall prepare a draft of the measures to be taken, which shall forthwith be communicated to the Member States and the person responsible for marketing.
Within a further 60 days, the person responsible for marketing may, at his request, provide oral or written explanations for consideration by the Committee for Veterinary Medicinal Products.
Paragraphs 2 to 6 shall apply in respect of pharmacologically active substances which are authorized for use in veterinary medicinal products on the date of entry into force of this Regulation. 2.
The persons responsible for marketing the veterinary medicinal products concerned shall ensure that all relevant information is submitted to the Commission in accordance with the requirements of Annex V and in conformity with the principles laid down in Directive 81/852/EEC before expiry of the relevant time limits.
If the information submitted by the person responsible for marketing is insufficient to enable such a draft to be prepared, that person will be requested to provide additional information, within a specified period, for examination by the Committee.
The draft of the measures to be taken shall be communicated forthwith by the Commission to the Member States and those persons responsible for marketing who have submitted information to the Commission before expiry of the time limit established in accordance with paragraph 2.
In that case, it shall immediately notify the other Member States and the Commission of the measures, attaching a statement of the reasons therefor. 2.
The Commission shall immediately notify the Council and the Member States of any measures taken.
Any Member State may refer the Commission's measures to the Council within 15 days of such notification.
The Council, acting by a qualified majority, may take a different decision within 30 days of the date on which the matter was referred to it. 3.
Article 11 Any changes which are necessary to adapt Annex V to take account of scientific and technical progress shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 2c of Directive 81/852/EEC.
Article 12 As soon as possible after the amendment of Annexes I, II, III or IV, the Commission shall publish a summary of the assessment of the safety of the substances concerned by the Committee for Veterinary Medicinal Products.
Article 13 Member States may not prohibit or impede the putting into circulation within their territories of foodstuffs of animal origin originating in other Member States on the grounds that they contain residues of veterinary medicinal products if the quantity of residue does not exceed the maximum residue limit provided for in Annex I or III, or if the substance concerned is listed in Annex II.
Article 14 With effect from 1 January 1997, the administration to food-producing animals of veterinary medicinal products containing pharmacologically active substances which are not mentioned in Annexes I, II or III shall be prohibited within the Community, except in the case of clinical trials accepted by the competent authorities following notification or authorization in accordance with the legislation in force and which do not cause foodstuffs obtained from livestock participating in such trials to contain residues which constitute a hazard to human health.
Article 15 This Regulation shall in no way prejudice the application of Community legislation prohibiting the use in livestock farming of certain substances having a hormonal action.
Article 16 This Regulation shall enter into force on 1 January 1992.
Done at Luxembourg, 26 June 1990.
O'KENNEDY (1) OJ No C 61, 10. 3. 1989.
International non-proprietary name. 2.2.
Classification: - therapeutic - pharmacological. 2.5.
Synonyms and abbreviations. 2.6.
Structural formula. 2.7.
Molecular formula. 2.8.
Degree of impurity. 2.10.
Conclusions 5.1.
Further work or information: - required - desirable. 6.
