Article 2 Determination of the competent authorities 1.
Article 4 Transmission of decisions and recourse to the central authority 1.
Article 5 Scope 1.
The following offences, if they are punishable in the issuing State and as they are defined by the law of the issuing State, shall, under the terms of this Framework Decision and without verification of the double criminality of the act, give rise to recognition and enforcement of decisions: - participation in a criminal organisation, - terrorism, - trafficking in human beings, - sexual exploitation of children and child pornography, - illicit trafficking in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, - illicit trafficking in weapons, munitions and explosives, - corruption, - fraud, including that affecting the financial interests of the European Communities within the meaning of the Convention of 26 July 1995 on the protection of the European Communities' financial interests, - laundering of the proceeds of crime, - counterfeiting currency, including of the euro, - computer-related crime, - environmental crime, including illicit trafficking in endangered animal species and in endangered plant species and varieties, - facilitation of unauthorised entry and residence, - murder, grievous bodily injury, - illicit trade in human organs and tissue, - kidnapping, illegal restraint and hostage-taking, - racism and xenophobia, - organised or armed robbery, - illicit trafficking in cultural goods, including antiques and works of art, - swindling, - racketeering and extortion, - counterfeiting and piracy of products, - forgery of administrative documents and trafficking therein, - forgery of means of payment, - illicit trafficking in hormonal substances and other growth promoters, - illicit trafficking in nuclear or radioactive materials, - trafficking in stolen vehicles, - rape, - arson, - crimes within the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court, - unlawful seizure of aircraft/ships, - sabotage, - conduct which infringes road traffic regulations, including breaches of regulations pertaining to driving hours and rest periods and regulations on hazardous goods, - smuggling of goods, - infringements of intellectual property rights, - threats and acts of violence against persons, including violence during sport events, - criminal damage, - theft, - offences established by the issuing State and serving the purpose of implementing obligations arising from instruments adopted under the EC Treaty or under Title VI of the EU Treaty. 2.
Article 6 Recognition and execution of decisions The competent authorities in the executing State shall recognise a decision which has been transmitted in accordance with Article 4 without any further formality being required and shall forthwith take all the necessary measures for its execution, unless the competent authority decides to invoke one of the grounds for non-recognition or non-execution provided for in Article 7.
Article 7 Grounds for non-recognition and non-execution 1.
The competent authorities in the executing State may refuse to recognise and execute the decision if the certificate provided for in Article 4 is not produced, is incomplete or manifestly does not correspond to the decision. 2.
In cases referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2(c) and (g), before deciding not to recognise and to execute a decision, either totally or in part, the competent authority in the executing State shall consult the competent authority in the issuing State, by any appropriate means, and shall, where appropriate, ask it to supply any necessary information without delay.
Article 8 Determination of the amount to be paid 1.
Article 9 Law governing enforcement 1.
Article 10 Imprisonment or other alternative sanction by way of substitution for non-recovery of the financial penalty Where it is not possible to enforce a decision, either totally or in part, alternative sanctions, including custodial sanctions, may be applied by the executing State if its laws so provide in such cases and the issuing State has allowed for the application of such alternative sanctions in the certificate referred to in Article 4.
Article 11 Amnesty, pardon, review of sentence 1.
Article 12 Termination of enforcement 1.
Article 13 Accrual of monies obtained from enforcement of decisions Monies obtained from the enforcement of decisions shall accrue to the executing State unless otherwise agreed between the issuing and the executing State, in particular in the cases referred to in Article 1(b)(ii).
Article 15 Consequences of transmission of a decision 1.
Subject to paragraph 2, the issuing State may not proceed with the execution of a decision transmitted pursuant to Article 4. 2.
Article 16 Languages 1.
Article 17 Costs Member States shall not claim from each other the refund of costs resulting from application of this Framework Decision.
Article 18 Relationship with other agreements and arrangements This Framework Decision shall not preclude the application of bilateral or multilateral agreements or arrangements between Member States in so far as such agreements or arrangements allow the prescriptions of this Framework Decision to be exceeded and help to simplify or facilitate further the procedures for the enforcement of financial penalties.
Article 19 Territorial application This Framework Decision shall apply to Gibraltar.
Article 20 Implementation 1.
Member States shall take the necessary measures to comply with the provisions of this Framework Decision by 22 March 2007. 2.
Each Member State may, where the certificate referred to in Article 4 gives rise to an issue that fundamental rights or fundamental legal principles as enshrined in Article 6 of the Treaty may have been infringed, oppose the recognition and the execution of decisions.
Any Member State may apply the principle of reciprocity in relation to any Member State making use of paragraph 2. 5.
On the basis of a report established on the basis of this information by the Commission, the Council shall, no later than 22 March 2008, assess the extent to which Member States have complied with this Framework Decision. 6.
Article 21 Entry into force This Framework Decision shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Done at Brussels, 24 February 2005.
Schmit [1] OJ C 278, 2.10.2001, p. 4. [2] OJ C 271 E, 7.11.2002, p. 423. [3] OJ C 12, 15.1.2001, p. 10. [4] OJ C 364, 18.12.2000, p. 1. [5] OJ L 12, 16.1.2001, p. 1.
To the extent that the offence(s) identified under point 2 above constitute(s) one or more of the following offences, confirm that by ticking the relevant box(es):  participation in a criminal organisation;  terrorism;  trafficking in human beings;  sexual exploitation of children and child pornography;  illicit trafficking in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances;  illicit trafficking in weapons, munitions and explosives;  corruption;  fraud, including that affecting the financial interests of the European Communities within the meaning of the Convention of 26 July 1995 on the protection of the European Communities' financial interests;  laundering of the proceeds of crime;  counterfeiting currency, including of the euro;  computer-related crime;  environmental crime, including illicit trafficking in endangered animal species and in endangered plant species and varieties;  facilitation of unauthorised entry and residence;  murder, grievous bodily injury;  illicit trade in human organs and tissue;  kidnapping, illegal restraint and hostage-taking;  racism and xenophobia;  organised or armed robbery;  illicit trafficking in cultural goods, including antiques and works of art;  swindling;  racketeering and extortion;  counterfeiting and piracy of products;  forgery of administrative documents and trafficking therein;  forgery of means of payment;  illicit trafficking in hormonal substances and other growth promoters;  illicit trafficking in nuclear or radioactive materials;  trafficking in stolen vehicles;  rape;  arson;  crimes within the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court;  unlawful seizure of aircraft/ships;  sabotage;  conduct which infringes road traffic regulations, including breaches of regulations pertaining to driving hours and rest periods and regulations on hazardous goods;  smuggling of goods;  infringements of intellectual property rights;  threats and acts of violence against persons, including violence during sport events;  criminal damage;  theft;  offences established by the issuing State and serving the purpose of implementing obligations arising from instruments adopted under the EC Treaty or under Title VI of the EU Treaty.
