General rules concerning these measures shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 43 (2) of the Treaty.
Article 3 The following intervention measures may be taken to prevent or mitigate a substantial fall in prices: - aid for private storage, - buying in by intervention agencies.
Intervention measures may be taken when the Community market price for pig carcases, as established by reference to the prices recorded in each Member State on the representative markets of the Community and weighted by means of coefficients reflecting the relative size of the pig herd in each Member State, is, and is likely to remain, at less than 103 % of the basic price. 3.
The procedure laid down in Article 43 (2) of the Treaty shall apply for the purposes of: - fixing the basic price, - determining a standard quality for pig carcases. 5.
The buying-in price for pig carcases of standard quality may not be more than 92 % or less than 85 % of the basic price. 2.
The Council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission, shall adopt general rules for granting private storage aid. 2.
The Council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission, shall - determine the quantity of feed grain required for the production in the Community of one kilogramme of pigmeat, and the percentages of the various feed grains included in that quantity, - adopt rules for the application of this Article.
However, for products falling within Common Customs Tariff heading No ex 16.02, the aforesaid percentage shall be 10 %.
Article 11 When a substantial price rise is recorded on the Community market and this situation is likely to continue, thereby disturbing or threatening to disturb the market, the necessary measures may be taken.
The Council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission, shall adopt general rules for the application of this Article.
Sluice-gate prices shall be fixed in advance for each quarter in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 24. 2.
Such sluice-gate prices shall be derived from the sluice-gate price for pig carcases on the basis of the ratio fixed for such products under Article 10 (4). 4.
The Council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission, shall - determine the quantity of feed grain specified in paragraph 2 (a) and the percentages of the various feed grains included in that quantity, - adopt a list of the products for which sluice-gate prices are to be fixed, - adopt rules for calculating the sluice-gate price for pig carcases.
The Council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission, shall adopt general rules concerning the system provided for in the second subparagraph of paragraph 1. 5.
The Council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission, shall adopt general rules for the granting and advance fixing of export refunds and criteria for fixing the amount of such refunds. 5.
Refunds shall be fixed at regular intervals in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 24.
Article 22 Member States and the Commission shall communicate to each other the information necessary for implementing this Regulation.
Rules for the communication and distribution of such information shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 24.
Within the Committee the votes of Member States shall be weighted in accordance with Article 148 (2) of the Treaty.
Article 25 The Committee may consider any other question referred to it by its Chairman either on his own initiative or at the request of the representative of a Member State.
Article 26 This Regulation shall be so applied that appropriate account is taken, in appropriate manner and at the same time, of the objectives set out in Articles 39 and 110 of the Treaty.
Article 27 Should Italy have recourse to the provisions of Article 23 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2727/75 (1) of 29 October 1975 on the common organization of the market in cereals, the Council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission, shall take the necessary measures to avoid distortion of competition.
Council Regulation No 121/67/EEC (2) of 13 June 1967 on the common organization of the market in pigmeat, as last amended by Regulation (EEC) No 1861/74 (3) is hereby repealed. 2.
