In the case of vocational training, Article 150 of the Treaty makes it clear that Community action should fully respect the responsibility of the Member States for the content and organisation of vocational training. (7) There is a need for customs action to give priority to improving anti-fraud controls, minimising the cost of compliance with customs legislation for economic operators and preparing for enlargement.
Article 2 Participation in the programme 1.
Participating countries are the Member States and those countries referred to in paragraph 2 which in fact participate in the programme. 2.
Article 3 Objectives 1.
CHAPTER II PROGRAMME ACTIONS Article 5 Communication and information exchange systems 1.
The Commission, in partnership with the Member States, may establish additional communication and information-exchange systems as they consider necessary. 3.
Article 6 Benchmarking Benchmarking activities may be organised involving one or more participating countries or other third countries, particularly the Community's main trading partners, in order to improve the performance of their customs administration in specific areas.
Article 7 Exchanges of officials 1.
Article 8 Seminars, workshops and project groups The Commission and the participating countries shall organise seminars, workshops and conferences to be attended by participating country and Commission officials and, where appropriate, other experts in the field.
Article 9 Training activities 1.
Article 10 Monitoring actions 1.
The Commission, in partnership with the Member States and, where appropriate, in close consultation with the economic operators, shall arrange for the monitoring of specific sectors of Community customs rules and procedures. 2.
Article 11 External actions in the form of technical assistance and training 1.
Article 12 Other actions The Commission may, in partnership with the Member States, develop and use any other actions necessary to meet the objectives of the programme.
Article 13 Fixing objectives and indicators All actions to be taken under this programme shall have defined objectives, measurable indicators to ensure suitable evaluation and a clear indication of the anticipated costs and shall be constructed so that the results achieve the expected impact of the action.
CHAPTER III FINANCIAL PROVISIONS Article 14 Financial framework 1.
The financial framework for the implementation of this programme for the period 1 January 2003 to 31 December 2007 is hereby set at EUR 133 million. 2.
Article 15 Expenditure 1.
The expenditure necessary for the implementation of the programme shall be divided between the Community and the participating countries in accordance with paragraphs 2 and 3. 2.
Article 16 Financial Control Financing decisions and any agreements or contracts resulting from this Decision shall be subject to financial control, and if necessary, on the spot audits by the Commission, including the European Anti-fraud Office (OLAF), and by the Court of Auditors.
Article 18 Committee 1.
The Commission shall be assisted by the Customs 2007 Committee (hereinafter referred to as %quot%the Committee%quot%). 2.
Article 19 Evaluation and reports 1.
The evaluation shall be pursued by means of the reports referred to in paragraph 2 and by means of specific activities and shall be based on a format, criteria and indicators established during the first year of the programme. 2.
Participating countries shall forward to the Commission: (a) by 30 June 2005 at the latest, an interim report on the effectiveness and efficiency of the programme, and (b) by 31 December 2007 at the latest, a final report on the effectiveness and efficiency of the programme. 3.
The Commission shall submit to the European Parliament and to the Council: (a) by 31 December 2005 at the latest, an interim report evaluating the efficiency and effectiveness of the programme; (b) by 30 June 2008 at the latest, a final report establishing the impact achieved by the programme.
The final report referred to in paragraph 3 shall analyse all the progress achieved in the case of each measure in the programme and shall include an analysis of the strengths and weaknesses of any kind of customs computerisation systems involved in the functioning of the internal market.
Article 20 Entry into force This Decision shall enter into force on the 20th day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
It shall apply from 1 January 2003.
Article 21 Addressees This Decision is addressed to Member States.
Done at Brussels, 11 February 2003.
Cox For the Council The President P.
