The competent authorities should control such uses. (14) Derogations may also be appropriate to permit the disposal of animal by-products on site in controlled circumstances.
This Regulation lays down animal and public health rules for: (a) the collection, transport, storage, handling, processing and use or disposal of animal by-products, to prevent these products from presenting a risk to animal or public health; (b) the placing on the market and, in certain specific cases, the export and transit of animal by-products and those products derived therefrom referred to in Annexes VII and VIII. 2.
Article 2 Definitions 1.
For the purpose of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: (a) animal by-products: entire bodies or parts of animals or products of animal origin referred to in Articles 4, 5 and 6 not intended for human consumption, including ova, embryos and semen; (b) Category 1 material: animal by-products referred to in Article 4; (c) Category 2 material: animal by-products referred to in Article 5; (d) Category 3 material: animal by-products referred to in Article 6; (e) animal: any vertebrate or invertebrate animal (including fish, reptiles and amphibians); (f) farmed animal: any animal that is kept, fattened or bred by humans and used for the production of food (including meat, milk and eggs), wool, fur, feathers, skins or any other product of animal origin; (g) wild animal: any animal not kept by humans; (h) pet animal: any animal belonging to species normally nourished and kept, but not consumed, by humans for purposes other than farming; (i) competent authority: the central authority of a Member State competent to ensure compliance with the requirements of this Regulation or any authority to which that central authority has delegated that competence, in particular for the control of feedingstuffs; it shall also include, where appropriate, the corresponding authority of a non-member country; (j) placing on the market: any operation the purpose of which is to sell animal by-products, or products derived therefrom covered by this Regulation, to a third party in the Community or any other form of supply against payment or free of charge to such a third party or storage with a view to supply to such a third party; (k) trade: trade between Member States in goods within the meaning of Article 23(2) of the Treaty; (l) transit: a movement through the Community from one non-member country to another; (m) producer: any person whose activity produces animal by-products; (n) TSEs: all transmissible spongiform encephalopathies, except those occurring in humans; (o) specified risk material: material referred to in Annex V to Regulation (EC) No 999/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 May 2001 laying down rules for the prevention, control and eradication of certain transmissible spongiform encephalopathies(17). 2.
Article 3 General obligations 1.
However, Member States may regulate under national law the importation and placing on the market of products not referred to in Annexes VII and VIII, pending the adoption of a decision in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 33(2).
Category 1 material shall comprise animal by-products of the following description, or any material containing such by-products: (a) all body parts, including hides and skins, of the following animals: (i) animals suspected of being infected by a TSE in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 999/2001 or in which the presence of a TSE has been officially confirmed, (ii) animals killed in the context of TSE eradication measures, (iii) animals other than farmed animals and wild animals, including in particular pet animals, zoo animals and circus animals, (iv) experimental animals as defined by Article 2 of Council Directive 86/609/EEC of 24 November 1986 on the approximation of laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States regarding the protection of animals used for experimental and other scientific purposes(18), and (v) wild animals, when suspected of being infected with diseases communicable to humans or animals; (b) (i) specified risk material, and (ii) where, at the time of disposal, specified risk material has not been removed, entire bodies of dead animals containing specified risk material; (c) products derived from animals to which substances prohibited under Directive 96/22/EC have been administered and products of animal origin containing residues of environmental contaminants and other substances listed in Group B(3) of Annex I to Council Directive 96/23/EC of 29 April 1996 on measures to monitor certain substances and residues thereof in live animals and animal products and repealing Directives 85/358/EEC and 86/469/EEC and Decisions 89/187/EEC and 91/664/EEC(19), if such residues exceed the permitted level laid down by Community legislation or, in the absence thereof, by national legislation; (d) all animal material collected when treating waste water from Category 1 processing plants and other premises in which specified risk material is removed, including screenings, materials from desanding, grease and oil mixtures, sludge and materials removed from drains from those premises, unless such material contains no specified risk material or parts of such material; (e) catering waste from means of transport operating internationally; and (f) mixtures of Category 1 material with either Category 2 material or Category 3 material or both, including any material destined for processing in a Category 1 processing plant. 2.
Category 1 material shall be collected, transported and identified without undue delay in accordance with Article 7 and, except as otherwise provided in Articles 23 and 24, shall be: (a) directly disposed of as waste by incineration in an incineration plant approved in accordance with Article 12; (b) processed in a processing plant approved under Article 13 using any of processing methods 1 to 5 or, where the competent authority so requires, processing method 1, in which case the resulting material shall be permanently marked, where technically possible with smell, in accordance with Annex VI, Chapter I, and finally disposed of as waste by incineration or by co-incineration in an incineration or co-incineration plant approved in accordance with Article 12; (c) with the exclusion of material referred to in paragraph 1(a)(i) and (ii), processed in a processing plant approved in accordance with Article 13 using processing method 1, in which case the resulting material shall be permanently marked, where technically possible with smell, in accordance with Annex VI, Chapter I, and finally disposed of as waste by burial in a landfill approved under Council Directive 1999/31/EC of 26 April 1999 on the landfill of waste(20); (d) in the case of catering waste referred to in paragraph 1(e), disposed of as waste by burial in a landfill approved under Directive 1999/31/EC; or (e) in the light of developments in scientific knowledge, disposed of by other means that are approved in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 33(2), after consultation of the appropriate scientific committee.
These means may either supplement or replace those provided for in subparagraphs (a) to (d). 3.
Intermediate handling or storage of Category 1 material shall take place only in Category 1 intermediate plants approved in accordance with Article 10. 4.
However, the import or export of specified risk material shall take place only in accordance with Article 8(1) of Regulation (EC) No 999/2001.
Article 5 Category 2 material 1.
Category 2 material shall comprise animal by-products of the following description, or any material containing such by-products: (a) manure and digestive tract content; (b) all animal materials collected when treating waste water from slaughterhouses other than slaughterhouses covered by Article 4(1)(d) or from Category 2 processing plants, including screenings, materials from desanding, grease and oil mixtures, sludge and materials removed from drains from those premises; (c) products of animal origin containing residues of veterinary drugs and contaminants listed in Group B(1) and (2) of Annex I to Directive 96/23/EC, if such residues exceed the permitted level laid down by Community legislation; (d) products of animal origin, other than Category 1 material, that are imported from non-member countries and, in the course of the inspections provided for in Community legislation, fail to comply with the veterinary requirements for their importation into the Community, unless they are returned or their importation is accepted under restrictions laid down under Community legislation; (e) animals and parts of animals, other than those referred to in Article 4, that die other than by being slaughtered for human consumption, including animals killed to eradicate an epizootic disease; (f) mixtures of Category 2 material with Category 3 material, including any material destined for processing in a Category 2 processing plant; and (g) animal by-products other than Category 1 material or Category 3 material. 2.
Category 2 material shall be collected, transported and identified without undue delay in accordance with Article 7 and, except as otherwise provided in Articles 23 and 24, shall be: (a) directly disposed of as waste by incineration in an incineration plant approved in accordance with Article 12; (b) processed in a processing plant approved in accordance with Article 13 using any of processing methods 1 to 5 or, where the competent authority so requires, processing method 1, in which case the resulting material shall be permanently marked, where technically possible with smell, in accordance with Annex VI, Chapter I, and: (i) disposed of as waste either by incineration or by coincineration in an incineration or co-incineration plant approved in accordance with Article 12, or (ii) in the case of rendered fats, further processed into fat derivatives for use in organic fertilizers or soil improvers or for other technical uses, other than in cosmetics, pharmaceuticals and medical devices, in a Category 2 oleochemical plant approved in accordance with Article 14; (c) processed in a processing plant approved in accordance with Article 13 using processing method 1, in which case the resulting material shall be permanently marked, where technically possible with smell, in accordance with Annex VI, Chapter I, and: (i) in the case of resulting proteinaceous material, used as an organic fertilizer or soil improver in compliance with requirements, if any, laid down in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 33(2), after consultation of the appropriate scientific committee, (ii) transformed in a biogas plant or in a composting plant approved in accordance with Article 15, or (iii) disposed of as waste by burial in a landfill approved under Directive 1999/31/EC; (d) in the case of material of fish origin, ensiled or composted in compliance with rules adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 33(2); (e) in the case of manure, digestive tract content separated from the digestive tract, milk and colostrum, if the competent authority does not consider them to present a risk of spreading any serious transmissible disease: (i) used without processing as raw material in a biogas plant or in a composting plant approved in accordance with Article 15 or treated in a technical plant approved for this purpose in accordance with Article 18, (ii) applied to land in accordance with this Regulation, or (iii) transformed in a biogas plant or composted in accordance with rules laid down under the procedure referred to in Article 33(2); (f) in the case of entire bodies or parts of wild animals not suspected of being infected with diseases communicable to humans or animals, used to produce game trophies in a technical plant approved for this purpose in accordance with Article 18; or (g) disposed of by other means, or used in other ways, in accordance with rules laid down under the procedure referred to in Article 33(2), after consultation of the appropriate scientific committee.
These means or ways may either supplement or replace those provided for in subparagraphs (a) to (f). 3.
Intermediate handling or storage of Category 2 material, other than manure, shall take place only in Category 2 intermediate plants approved in accordance with Article 10. 4.
Article 6 Category 3 material 1.
Category 3 material shall comprise animal by-products of the following description, or any material containing such by-products: (a) parts of slaughtered animals, which are fit for human consumption in accordance with Community legislation, but are not intended for human consumption for commercial reasons; (b) parts of slaughtered animals, which are rejected as unfit for human consumption but are not affected by any signs of diseases communicable to humans or animals and derive from carcases that are fit for human consumption in accordance with Community legislation; (c) hides and skins, hooves and horns, pig bristles and feathers originating from animals that are slaughtered in a slaughterhouse, after undergoing ante-mortem inspection, and were fit, as a result of such inspection, for slaughter for human consumption in accordance with Community legislation; (d) blood obtained from animals other than ruminants that are slaughtered in a slaughterhouse, after undergoing ante-mortem inspection, and were fit, as a result of such inspection, for slaughter for human consumption in accordance with Community legislation; (e) animal by-products derived from the production of products intended for human consumption, including degreased bones and greaves; (f) former foodstuffs of animal origin, or former foodstuffs containing products of animal origin, other than catering waste, which are no longer intended for human consumption for commercial reasons or due to problems of manufacturing or packaging defects or other defects which do not present any risk to humans or animals; (g) raw milk originating from animals that do not show clinical signs of any disease communicable through that product to humans or animals; (h) fish or other sea animals, except sea mammals, caught in the open sea for the purposes of fishmeal production; (i) fresh by-products from fish from plants manufacturing fish products for human consumption; (j) shells, hatchery by-products and cracked egg by-products originating from animals which did not show clinical signs of any disease communicable through that product to humans or animals; (k) blood, hides and skins, hooves, feathers, wool, horns, hair and fur originating from animals that did not show clinical signs of any disease communicable through that product to humans or animals; and (l) catering waste other than as referred to in Article 4(1)(e). 2.
Category 3 material shall be collected, transported and identified without undue delay in accordance with Article 7 and, except as otherwise provided in Articles 23 and 24, shall be: (a) directly disposed of as waste by incineration in an incineration plant approved in accordance with Article 12; (b) processed in a processing plant approved in accordance with Article 13 using any of processing methods 1 to 5, in which case the resulting material shall be permanently marked, where technically possible with smell, in accordance with Annex VI, Chapter I, and disposed of as waste either by incineration or by co-incineration in an incineration or co-incineration plant approved in accordance with Article 12 or in a landfill approved under Directive 1999/31/EC; (c) processed in a processing plant approved in accordance with Article 17; (d) transformed in a technical plant approved in accordance with Article 18; (e) used as raw material in a petfood plant approved in accordance with Article 18; (f) transformed in a biogas plant or in a composting plant approved in accordance with Article 15; (g) in the case of catering waste referred to in paragraph 1(l), transformed in a biogas plant or composted in accordance with rules laid down under the procedure referred to in Article 33(2) or, pending the adoption of such rules, in accordance with national law; (h) in the case of material of fish origin, ensiled or composted in accordance with rules laid down under the procedure referred to in Article 33(2); or (i) disposed of by other means, or used in other ways, in accordance with rules laid down under the procedure referred to in Article 33(2), after consultation of the appropriate scientific committee.
These means or ways may either supplement or replace those provided for in subparagraphs (a) to (h). 3.
Intermediate handling or storage of Category 3 material shall take place only in Category 3 intermediate plants approved in accordance with Article 10.
Article 7 Collection, transportation and storage 1.
The storage of processed products shall take place only in storage plants approved in accordance with Article 11. 6.
Article 8 Dispatch of animal by-products and processed products to other Member States 1.
The message shall contain the information specified in Annex II, Chapter I, paragraph 2. 5.
Article 9 Records 1.
CHAPTER III APPROVAL OF INTERMEDIATE, STORAGE, INCINERATION AND CO-INCINCERATION, CATEGORY 1 AND 2 PROCESSING, CATEGORY 2 AND CATEGORY 3 OLEOCHEMICAL, BIOGAS AND COMPOSTING PLANTS Article 10 Approval of intermediate plants 1.
To be approved, Category 1 or Category 2 intermediate plants must: (a) meet the requirements of Annex III, Chapter I; (b) handle and store Category 1 or Category 2 material in accordance with Annex III, Chapter II, Part B; (c) undergo the plant's own checks provided for in Article 25; and (d) be checked by the competent authority in accordance with Article 26. 3.
To be approved, storage plants must: (a) meet the requirements of Annex III, Chapter III; and (b) be checked by the competent authority in accordance with Article 26.
Article 12 Approval of incineration and co-incineration plants 1.
To be approved by the competent authority for the purpose of disposing of animal by-products, a high-capacity incineration or co-incineration plant to which Directive 2000/76/EC does not apply must fulfil: (a) the general conditions laid down in Annex IV, Chapter I; (b) the operating conditions laid down in Annex IV, Chapter II; (c) the requirements laid down in Annex IV, Chapter III, concerning water discharges; (d) the requirements laid down in Annex IV, Chapter IV, concerning residues; (e) the temperature measurement requirements laid down in Annex IV, Chapter V; and (f) the conditions concerning abnormal operating laid down in Annex IV, Chapter VI. 3.
To be approved by the competent authority for the purpose of disposing of animal by-products, a low-capacity incineration or co-incineration plant to which Directive 2000/76/EC does not apply must: (a) be used only for the disposal of dead pet animals and/or Category 2 and Category 3 material; (b) when located on a holding, be used only for the disposal of material from that particular holding; (c) fulfil the general conditions laid down in Annex IV, Chapter I; (d) fulfil the applicable operating conditions laid down in Annex IV, Chapter II; (e) fulfil the requirements laid down in Annex IV, Chapter IV, concerning residues; (f) fulfil the applicable temperature measurement requirements laid down in Annex IV, Chapter V; and (g) fulfil the conditions concerning abnormal operating laid down in Annex IV, Chapter VI. 4.
Article 13 Approval of Category 1 and Category 2 processing plants 1.
To be approved, Category 1 and Category 2 processing plants must: (a) meet the requirements of Annex V, Chapter I; (b) handle, process and store Category 1 or Category 2 material in accordance with Annex V, Chapter II and Annex VI, Chapter I; (c) be validated by the competent authority in accordance with Annex V, Chapter V; (d) undergo the plant's own checks provided for in Article 25; (e) be checked by the competent authority in accordance with Article 26; and (f) ensure that, after processing, the products satisfy the requirements of Annex VI, Chapter I. 3.
Article 14 Approval of Category 2 and Category 3 oleochemical plants 1.
Oleochemical plants shall be subject to approval by the competent authority. 2.
To be approved, Category 2 oleochemical plants must: (a) process rendered fats derived from Category 2 material in accordance with the standards laid down in Annex VI, Chapter III; (b) establish and implement methods of monitoring and checking the critical control points on the basis of the process used; (c) keep a record of the information obtained pursuant to point (b) for presentation to the competent authority; and (d) be checked by the competent authority in accordance with Article 26. 3.
Biogas plants and composting plants shall be subject to approval by the competent authority. 2.
Member States shall take all necessary measures to guarantee that animal by-products, and products derived therefrom referred to in Annexes VII and VIII, are not dispatched from any holding situated in a zone subject to restrictions because of the occurrence of a disease to which the species from which the product is derived is susceptible, or from any plant or zone from which movements or trade would constitute a risk to the animal health status of the Member States or areas of Member States, except where products are treated in accordance with this Regulation. 2.
The measures referred to in paragraph 1 shall guarantee that the products are obtained from animals that: (a) come from a holding, territory or part of a territory or, in the case of aquaculture products, from a farm, zone or part of a zone, not subject to animal health restrictions applicable to the animals and products concerned, and in particular restrictions under disease control measures imposed by Community legislation or by virtue of a serious transmissible disease listed in Council Directive 92/119/EEC of 17 December 1992 introducing general Community measures for the control of certain animal diseases and specific measures relating to swine vesicular disease(22); (b) were not slaughtered in a plant in which animals infected, or suspected of being infected, with one of the diseases covered by the rules referred to in (a) were present at the time of slaughter. 3.
Article 17 Approval of Category 3 processing plants 1.
Category 3 processing plants shall be subject to approval by the competent authority. 2.
To be approved, Category 3 processing plants must: (a) meet the requirements of Annex V, Chapter I, and Annex VII, Chapter I; (b) handle, process and store only Category 3 material in accordance with Annex V, Chapter II, and Annex VII; (c) be validated by the competent authority in accordance with Annex V, Chapter V; (d) undergo the plant's own checks provided for in Article 25; (e) be checked by the competent authority in accordance with Article 26; and (f) ensure that, after processing, the products satisfy the requirements of Annex VII, Chapter I. 3.
Article 18 Approval of petfood plants and technical plants 1.
The results of the checks and tests shall be kept for at least two years; (v) to inform the competent authority, should the result of the laboratory examination referred to in point (iii) or any other information available to them reveal the existence of a serious animal health or public health hazard; and (b) to be checked by the competent authority in accordance with Article 26. 3.
Article 19 Placing on the market and export of processed animal protein and other processed products that could be used as feed material Member States shall ensure that processed animal protein and other processed products that could be used as feed material are placed on the market or exported only if they: (a) have been prepared in a Category 3 processing plant approved and supervised in accordance with Article 17; (b) have been prepared exclusively with Category 3 material, as specified in Annex VII; (c) have been handled, processed, stored and transported in accordance with Annex VII and in such a manner as to ensure compliance with Article 22; and (d) meet the specific requirements laid down in Annex VII.
Article 20 Placing on the market and export of petfood, dogchews and technical products 1.
Member States shall ensure that petfood, dogchews, technical products, other than those referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3, and those animal by-products referred to in Annex VIII are placed on the market or exported only if they: (a) meet either: (i) the specific requirements laid down in Annex VIII, or (ii) when a product could be used both as a technical product and as feed material, and Annex VIII contains no specific requirements, the specific requirements laid down by the relevant Chapter of Annex VII; and (b) come from plants approved and supervised in accordance with Article 18 or, in the case of animal by-products referred to in Annex VIII, from other plants approved in accordance with Community veterinary legislation. 2.
Member States shall ensure that fat derivatives produced from Category 2 material are placed on the market or exported only if they: (a) have been prepared in a Category 2 oleochemical plant approved in accordance with Article 14 from rendered fats resulting from the processing of Category 2 material in a Category 2 processing plant approved in accordance with Article 13 following the application of any of processing methods 1 to 5; (b) have been handled, processed, stored and transported in accordance with Annex VI; and (c) meet any specific requirements laid down in Annex VIII.
Article 21 Safeguard measures Article 10 of Directive 90/425/EEC shall apply to the products covered by Annexes VII and VIII to this Regulation.
CHAPTER V DEROGATIONS Article 23 Derogations regarding the use of animal by-products 1.
Detailed rules concerning verification measures may be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 33(2).
Article 24 Derogations regarding the disposal of animal by-products 1.
Detailed arrangements for implementing this Article may be laid down under the procedure referred to in Article 33(2).
They shall in particular: (a) identify and control the critical control points in the plants; (b) establish and implement methods for monitoring and checking such critical control points; (c) in the case of processing plants, take representative samples to check compliance: (i) of each processed batch with the standards for the products established by this Regulation, and (ii) with the maximum permitted levels of physicochemical residues laid down in Community legislation; (d) record the results of the checks and tests referred to in points (b) and (c) and keep them for a period of at least two years for presentation to the competent authorities; (e) introduce a system ensuring the traceablility of each batch dispatched. 2.
Each Member State shall draw up a list of plants approved in accordance with this Regulation within its territory.
CHAPTER VII COMMUNITY CONTROLS Article 27 Community controls in Member States 1.
CHAPTER VIII PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO THE IMPORTATION AND TRANSIT OF CERTAIN ANIMAL BY-PRODUCTS AND PRODUCTS DERIVED THEREFROM Article 28 General provisions The provisions applicable to the importation of products referred to in Annexes VII and VIII from non-member countries shall be no more favourable or less favourable that those applicable to the production and marketing of those products in the Community.
Article 29 Prohibitions and compliance with Community rules 1.
The importation into, and the transit through, the Community of the products referred to in Annexes VII and VIII may take place only if such products satisfy the requirements set out in paragraphs 3 to 6. 3.
Products referred to in Annexes VII and VIII shall, save as otherwise specified in those Annexes, come from a third country or parts of third countries on a list to be drawn up and updated in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 33(2).
When the list is drawn up, particular account shall be taken of: (a) the legislation of the third country; (b) the organisation of the competent authority and its inspection services in the third country, the powers of those services, the supervision to which they are subject, and their authority to monitor effectively the application of their legislation; (c) the actual health conditions applied to the production, manufacture, handling, storage and dispatch of products of animal origin intended for the Community; (d) the assurances the third country can give regarding compliance with the relevant health conditions; (e) experience of marketing the product from the third country and the results of import checks carried out; (f) the result of any Community inspections in the third country; (g) the health status of the livestock, other domestic animals and wildlife in the third country, having particular regard to exotic animal diseases and any aspects of the general health situation in the country which might pose a risk to public or animal health in the Community; (h) the regularity and speed with which the third country supplies information about the existence of infectious or contagious animal diseases in its territory, in particular the diseases mentioned in Lists A and B of the OIE or, in the case of diseases of aquaculture animals, the notifiable diseases as listed in the Aquatic Animal Health Code of the OIE; (i) the regulations on the prevention and control of infectious or contagious animal diseases in force in the third country and their implementation, including rules on imports from other countries. 4.
Products referred to in Annexes VII and VIII, except for technical products, must come from plants on a Community list drawn up under the procedure referred to in Article 33(2) on the basis of a communication from the competent authorities of the third country to the Commission declaring that the plant complies with the Community requirements and is subject to supervision by an official inspection service in the third country.
Save as otherwise specified in Annexes VII and VIII, a health certificate corresponding to the model laid down in Annex X, certifying that the products meet the conditions referred to in those Annexes and come from plants offering such conditions, must accompany consignments of products referred to in those Annexes. 7.
Article 30 Equivalence 1.
In accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 33(2), a decision may be taken recognising that the health measures applied by a third country, a group of third countries or a region of a third country to the production, manufacture, handling, storage and transport of one or more categories of products referred to in Annexes VII and VIII offer guarantees equivalent to those applied in the Community, if the third country supplies objective proof in this respect.
Article 31 Community inspections and audits 1.
The frequency of and the procedure for the checks referred to in paragraph 1 may be specified in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 33(2). 4.
CHAPTER IX FINAL PROVISIONS Article 32 Amendments to Annexes and transitional measures 1.
Article 33 Regulatory procedure 1.
Article 34 Consultation of scientific committees The appropriate scientific committees shall be consulted on any matter within the scope of this Regulation that could have an effect on animal or public health.
Article 35 National provisions 1.
Article 36 Financial arrangements The Commission shall prepare a report on the financial arrangements in Member States for the processing, collection, storage and disposal of animal by-products accompanied by appropriate proposals.
Article 38 Entry into force This Regulation shall enter into force on the 20th day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Done at Luxembourg, 3 October 2002.
Cox For the Council The President F.
Hansen (1) OJ C 96 E, 27.3.2001, p. 40. (2) OJ C 193, 10.7.2001, p. 32. (3) Opinion of the European Parliament of 12 June 2001 (OJ C 53 E of 28.2.2002, p. 84), Council Common Position of 20 November 2001 (OJ C 45 E of 19.2.2002, p. 70) and Decision of the European Parliament of 13 March 2002 (not yet published in the Official Journal).
Decision of the European Parliament of 24 September 2002 and Council Decision of 23 September 2002. (4) OJ L 363, 27.12.1990, p. 51.
Directive as last amended by the 1994 Act of Accession. (5) OJ C 223, 8.8.2001, p. 281. (6) OJ L 332, 28.12.2000, p. 91. (7) OJ L 169, 27.6.1997, p. 85.
Decision as amended by Decision 2000/443/EC (OJ L 179, 18.7.2000, p. 13). (8) OJ L 237, 28.8.1997, p. 18.
Decision as amended by Decision 2000/443/EC. (9) OJ L 125, 23.5.1996, p. 3. (10) OJ L 62, 15.3.1993, p. 49.
Directive as last amended by Commission Decision 2001/7/EC (OJ L 2, 5.1.2001, p. 27). (11) OJ L 224, 18.8.1990, p. 29.
Directive as last amended by Directive 92/118/EEC. (12) OJ L 24, 30.1.1998, p. 9. (13) OJ L 202, 26.8.1995, p. 8. (14) OJ L 204, 4.8.1999, p. 37. (15) OJ L 31, 1.2.2002, p. 1. (16) OJ L 184, 17.7.1999, p. 23. (17) OJ L 147, 31.5.2001, p. 1.
Regulation as last amended by Commission Regulation (EC) No 1326/2001 (OJ L 177, 30.6.2001, p. 60). (18) OJ L 358, 18.12.1986, p. 1. (19) OJ L 125, 23.5.1996, p. 10. (20) OJ L 182, 16.7.1999, p. 1. (21) OJ L 194, 25.7.1975, p. 39.
Directive as last amended by Commission Decision 96/350/EC (OJ L 135, 6.6.1996, p. 32). (22) OJ L 62, 15.3.1993, p. 69.
Directive as last amended by Directive 2001/46/EC (OJ L 234, 1.9.2001, p. 55). (2) Council Directive 95/69/EC of 22 December 1995 laying down the conditions and arrangements for approving and registering certain establishments and intermediaries operating in the animal feed sector and amending Directives 70/524/EEC, 74/63/EEC, 79/373/EEC and 82/471/EEC (OJ L 332, 30.12.1995, p. 15).
Directive as last amended by Directive 1999/29/EC (OJ L 115, 4.5.1999, p. 32).
CHAPTER III Commercial documents and health certificates 1.
They must contain: (a) the information referred to in subparagraphs (b) and (c); and (b) in the case of records kept by any person consigning animal by-products, the information referred to in subparagraphs (a), (e) and, if known, (f); or (c) in the case of records kept by any person transporting animal by-products, the information referred to in subparagraphs (a), (d) and (f); or (d) in the case of records kept by any person receiving animal by-products, the date of reception and the information referred to in subparagraphs (d) and (e).
CHAPTER VI Temperature conditions 1.
Unprocessed Category 3 material destined for the production of feed material or pet food must be transported chilled or frozen, unless processed within 24 hours of departure. 3.
CHAPTER VII Specific rules for transit The carriage of animal by-products and processed products in transit must meet the requirements of Chapters I, II, III and VI.
All the time during sorting or storage, Category 3 material must be handled and stored separately from goods other than other Category 3 material and in such a way as to prevent any propagation of pathogens and to ensure compliance with Article 22. 4.
Packaging material must be incinerated or disposed of by some other means in accordance with instructions from the competent authority.
Packaging material must be incinerated or disposed of by some other means in accordance with instructions from the competent authority. 11.
CHAPTER III Requirements for the approval of storage plants Premises and facilities must meet at least the following requirements. 1.
ANNEX IV REQUIREMENTS FOR INCINERATION AND CO-INCINERATION PLANTS TO WHICH DIRECTIVE 2000/76/EC DOES NOT APPLY CHAPTER I General conditions 1.
Incineration or co-incineration plants must be designed, equipped and operated in such a manner as to fulfil the requirements of this Regulation. 2.
CHAPTER II Operating conditions 3.
Incineration or co-incineration plants must be designed, equipped, built and operated in such a way that the gas resulting from the process is raised in a controlled and homogeneous fashion, even under the most unfavourable conditions, to a temperature of 850 °C, as measured near the inner wall or at another representative point of the combustion chamber as authorised by the competent authority, for two seconds. 4.
High-capacity incineration or co-incineration plants must have and operate an automatic system to prevent feed with animal by-products: (a) at start-up, until the temperature of 850 °C has been reached; and (b) whenever the temperature of 850 °C is not maintained. 6.
CHAPTER IV Residues 9.
Residues must be recycled, where appropriate, directly in the plant or outside in accordance with relevant Community legislation. 11.
CHAPTER VI Abnormal operating 16.
They must be stored properly until processed. 2.
Installations and equipment must be kept in a good state of repair and measuring equipment must be calibrated at regular intervals. 9.
CHAPTER III Processing methods Method 1 Reduction 1.
If the particle size of the animal by-products to be processed is more than 50 millimetres, the animal by-products must be reduced in size using appropriate equipment, set so that the particle size after reduction is no greater than 50 millimetres.
If checks disclose the existence of particles larger than 50 millimetres, the process must be stopped and repairs made before the process is resumed.
Time, temperature and pressure 2.
If the particle size of the animal by-products to be processed is more than 150 millimetres, the animal by-products must be reduced in size using appropriate equipment, set so that the particle size after reduction is no greater than 150 millimetres.
If checks disclose the existence of particles larger than 150 millimetres, the process must be stopped and repairs made before the process is resumed.
Time, temperature and pressure 2.
After reduction the animal by-products must be heated to a core temperature greater than 100 °C for at least 125 minutes, a core temperature greater than 110 °C for at least 120 minutes and a core temperature greater that 120 °C for at least 50 minutes. 3.
The processing must be carried out in a batch system. 4.
If the particle size of the animal by-products to be processed is more than 30 millimetres, the animal by-products must be reduced in size using appropriate equipment, set so that the particle size after reduction is no greater than 30 millimetres.
If checks disclose the existence of particles larger than 30 millimetres, the process must be stopped and repairs made before the process is resumed.
Time, temperature and pressure 2.
After reduction the animal by-products must be heated to a core temperature greater than 100 °C for at least 95 minutes, a core temperature greater than 110 °C for at least 55 minutes and a core temperature greater that 120 °C for at least 13 minutes. 3.
If the particle size of the animal by-products to be processed is more than 30 millimetres, the animal by-products must be reduced in size using appropriate equipment, set so that the particle size after reduction is no greater than 30 millimetres.
If checks disclose the existence of particles larger than 30 millimetres, the process must be stopped and repairs made before the process is resumed.
Time, temperature and pressure 2.
If the particle size of the animal by-products to be processed is more than 20 millimetres, the animal by-products must be reduced in size using appropriate equipment, set so that the particle size after reduction is no greater than 20 millimetres.
If checks disclose the existence of particles larger than 20 millimetres, the process must be stopped and repairs made before the process is resumed.
Time, temperature and pressure 2.
The proteinaceous material must then be heated to a core temperature greater than 80 °C for at least 120 minutes and a core temperature greater than 100 °C for at least 60 minutes. 3.
The mixture must be stored for ...
CHAPTER IV Supervision of production 1.
In the case of a continuous pressure system: (a) the temperature and the pressure must be monitored with thermocouples, or an infrared temperature gun, and pressure gauges used at defined positions throughout the process system in such a way that temperature and pressure comply with the required conditions inside the whole continuous system or in a section of it.
Processing standards 3.
Processed products 8.
Detailed rules for such marking may be laid down under the procedure referred to in Article 33(2). 9.
They must be stored properly until treated. 6.
Installations and equipment must be kept in a good state of repair and measuring equipment must be calibrated at regular intervals. 11.
Processing standards 12.
Category 3 material used as raw material in a composting plant must be submitted to the following minimum requirements: (a) maximum particle size before entering the composting reactor: 12 mm, (b) minimum temperature in all material in the reactor: 70 °C; and (c) minimum time in the reactor at 70 °C (all material): 60 minutes. 14.
Digestion residues and compost 15.
transesterification or hydrolysis at least 200 °C, under corresponding appropriate pressure, for 20 minutes (glycerol, fatty acids and esters); or 2.
saponification with NaOH 12M (glycerol and soap): (a) in a batch process at 95 °C for three hours; or (b) in a continuous process at 140 °C 2 bars (2000 hPa) for eight minutes, or under equivalent conditions laid down in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 33(2).
Processing standards 6.
Processed products 10.
Processing standards 1.
Mammalian processed animal protein must have been submitted to processing method 1. 2.
Non-mammalian processed animal protein, with the exclusion of fishmeal, must have been submitted to any of processing methods 1 to 5 or 7. 3.
Processed animal protein must be packed and stored in new or sterilised bags or stored in properly constructed bulk bins. 5.
Member States must authorise the importation of processed animal protein: (a) if it comes from third countries that appear on the list in Part II of Annex XI or, in the case of fishmeal, that appear on the list in Part III of Annex XI; (b) if it comes from a processing plant that appears on the list referred to in Article 29(4); (c) if it has been produced in accordance with this Regulation; and (d) if it is accompanied by a health certificate as provided for in Article 29(6). 10.
Processing standards 2.
Member States must authorise the importation of blood products if they: (a) come from third countries that appear on the list in Part V of Annex XI; (b) come from a processing plant that appears on the list referred to in Article 29(4); (c) have been produced in accordance with this Regulation; and (d) are accompanied by a health certificate as provided for in Article 29(6).
Processing standards 1.
Importation of rendered fats 2.
Importation of fish oil 3.
Member States must authorise the importation of fish oil if it: (a) comes from third countries appearing on the list in Part III of Annex XI; (b) comes from a processing plant that appears on the list referred to in Article 29(4); (c) has been produced in accordance with this Regulation; and (d) is accompanied by a health certificate as provided for in Article 29(6).
Processing standards 1.
Such conditions may be established in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 33(2). 2.
Milk or treated or processed milk products must be subjected to a heat treatment of at least 2 °C for at least 15 seconds or any combination of temperature and time having at least an equivalent heat effect and producing a negative reaction to the phosphatase test, followed by: (a) in the case of dried milk or dried milk products, a drying process; or (b) in the case of an acidified milk product, a process by which the pH is reduced and kept for at least one hour at a level below 6. 3.
In addition to the requirements laid down in paragraph 2, dried milk or dried-milk products must meet the following requirements: (a) after completion of the drying process, every precaution must be taken to prevent contamination of the products; and (b) the final product must be: (i) packed in new containers, or (ii) in the case of bulk transport, transported in vehicles or containers that have been disinfected using a product approved by the competent authority before loading with the milk, milk-based product or colostrum.
Member States must authorise imports of milk and milk-based products if: (a) they come from third countries appearing on the list in Part I of Annex XI; (b) in the case of milk and milk-based products from third countries or parts of third countries listed in column B of the Annex to Decision 95/340/EC(2), they have undergone a pasteurisation treatment sufficient to produce a negative phosphatase test and a health certificate conforming to the model laid down in Chapter 2(A) of Annex X accompanies them; (c) in the case of milk-based products with a pH reduced to less than 6 from third countries or parts of third countries listed in column C of the Annex to Decision 95/340/EC, they have first undergone a pasteurisation treatment sufficient to produce a negative phosphatase test and a health certificate conforming to the model laid down in Chapter 2(B) of Annex X accompanies them; (d) in the case of milk and milk-based products from third countries or parts of third countries listed in column C of the Annex to Decision 95/340/EC, they have first undergone a sterilisation process or a double heat treatment where each treatment was sufficient to produce a negative phosphatase test on its own and a health certificate conforming to the model laid down in Chapter 2(C) of Annex X accompanies them; and (e) they come from a processing plant which appears on the list referred to in Article 29(4). 5.
Milk and milk-based products from third countries or parts of third countries listed in column C of the Annex to Decision 95/340/EC where there has been an outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease in the last 12 months or where vaccination against foot-and-mouth disease has been carried out in the last 12 months must, before introduction on to Community territory, have undergone either: (a) a sterilisation process whereby an Fc value equal to or greater than 3 is achieved; or (b) an initial heat treatment with a heating effect at least equal to that achieved by a pasteurisation process of at least 72 °C for at least 15 seconds and sufficient to produce a negative reaction to a phosphatase test, followed by: (i) a second heat treatment with a heating effect at least equal to that achieved by the initial heat treatment, and which would be sufficient to produce a negative reaction to a phosphatase test, followed, in the case of dried milk, or dried milk-based products, by a drying process, or (ii) an acidification process such that the pH has been maintained at less than 6 for at least one hour. 6.
Processing standards for hydrolysed protein 3.
Preparation of the raw Category 3 material by brining, liming and intensive washing must be followed by: (a) exposure of the material to a pH of more than 11 for more than three hours at a temperature of more than 80 °C and subsequently by heat treatment at more than 140 °C for 30 minutes at more than 3,6 bar; (b) exposure of the material to a pH of 1 to 2, followed by a pH of more than 11, followed by heat treatment at 140 °C for 30 minutes at 3 bar; or (c) an equivalent production process approved in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 33(2).
Member States must authorise the importation of gelatin and hydrolysed proteins if they: (a) come from third countries that appear on the list in Part XI of Annex X; (b) come from a processing plant that appears on the list referred to in Article 29(4); (c) have been produced in accordance with this Regulation; and (d) are accompanied by a health certificate as provided for in Article 29(6).
Processing standards 1.
Dicalcium phosphate must be produced by a process that: (a) ensures that all Category 3 bone-material is finely crushed and degreased with hot water and treated with dilute hydrochloric acid (at a minimum concentration of 4 % and a pH of less than 1,5) over a period of at least two days; (b) follows this with treatment of the obtained phosphoric liquor with lime, resulting in a precipitate of dicalcium phosphate at pH 4 to 7; and (c) finally air dries this precipitate for 15 minutes, with inlet temperature of 270 to 325 °C and end temperature between 60 and 65 °C, or by an equivalent process approved in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 33(2).
Processing standards 2.
Processed petfood other than canned petfood must be subjected to a heat treatment of at least 90 °C throughout its substance.
Member States must authorise importation of petfood and dogchews if they: (a) come from third countries that appear on the list in Part X of Annex XI; (b) come from petfood plants approved by the competent authority of the third country meeting the specific conditions laid down in this Regulation; (c) have been produced in accordance with this Regulation; (d) are accompanied: (i) in the case of canned petfood, by a certificate that conforms to the model laid down in Chapter 3(A) of Annex X, (ii) in the case of processed petfood other than canned petfood, by a certificate that conforms to the model laid down in Chapter 3(B) of Annex X, (iii) in the case of dogchews, by a certificate that conforms to the model laid down in Chapter 3(C) of Annex X, or (iv) in the case of raw petfood, by a certificate that conforms to the model laid down in Chapter 3(D) of Annex X.
CHAPTER III Requirements for manure, processed manure and processed manure products I.
Trade in unprocessed poultry manure is subject to the following conditions: (a) the manure must originate in an area which is not subject to restrictions by virtue of Newcastle disease or avian influenza; (b) in addition, unprocessed manure from poultry flocks vaccinated against Newcastle disease must not be dispatched to a region which has obtained Newcastle disease non-vaccinating status pursuant to Article 15(2) of Directive 90/539/EEC(1); and (c) a health certificate conforming to a model laid down under the procedure referred to in Article 33(2) must accompany the manure. 3.
Processed manure and processed manure products A.
The placing on the market of processed manure and processed manure products is subject to the following conditions: (a) they must come from a technical plant, a biogas plant or a composting plant approved by the competent authority in accordance with this Regulation; (b) they must have been subjected to a heat treatment process of at least 70 °C for at least 60 minutes or to an equivalent treatment in accordance with rules laid down under the procedure referred to in Article 33(2); (c) they must: (i) be free from salmonella (no salmonella in 25 g treated product), (ii) be free from enterobacteriaceae (based on the aerobic bacteria count: %amp%lt; 1000 cfu per gram of treated products), and (iii) have been subjected to reduction in spore-forming bacteria and toxic formation; and (d) they must be stored in such a way that, once processed, contamination or secondary infection and dampness is impossible.
Member States must authorise importation of processed manure and processed manure products if they: (a) come from third countries that appear on the list in Part IX of Annex XI; (b) come from a plant approved by the competent authority of the third country meeting the specific conditions laid down in this Regulation; (c) satisfy the requirements of paragraph 5 above; and (d) are accompanied by a health certificate as provided for in Article 29(6).
CHAPTER IV Requirements for blood and blood products used for technical purposes, including pharmaceuticals, in vitro diagnosis and laboratory agents, but excluding serum of equidae A.
Imports of blood are subject to the requirements laid down in Chapter XI. 3.
CHAPTER V Requirements for serum of equidae A.
Trade in treated hides and skins is authorised on condition that the commercial document provided for in Annex II accompanies each consignment and attests that: (a) the hides and skins have been treated in accordance with paragraph 2; and (b) the consignment has not been in contact with other animal products or live animals presenting a risk of spreading a serious transmissible disease.
Member States must authorise the import of fresh or chilled hides and skins if: (a) they have been obtained from animals referred to in Article 6(1)(b) or (c); (b) they originate from a third country or, in the case of regionalisation in accordance with Community legislation, from a part of a third country from which imports of all categories of fresh meat of the corresponding species are authorised and which: (i) for at least 12 months before dispatch, has been free from the following diseases: - classical swine fever, - African swine fever, and - rinderpest, and (ii) has been free for at least 24 months before dispatch from foot-and-mouth disease and where, for 12 months before dispatch, no vaccination has been carried out against foot-and-mouth disease; (c) they have been obtained from: (i) animals that have remained in the territory of the country of origin for at least three months before being slaughtered or since birth in the case of animals less that three months old, (ii) in the case of hides and skins from bi-ungulates, animals that come from holdings in which there has been no outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease in the previous 30 days, and around which within a radius of 10 km there has been no case of foot-and-mouth disease for 30 days, (iii) in the case of hides and skins from swine, animals that come from holdings in which there has been no outbreak of swine vesicular disease in the previous 30 days, or of classical or African swine fever in the previous 40 days, and around which within a radius of 10 km there has been no case of these diseases for 30 days, or (iv) animals that have passed the ante-mortem health inspection at the slaughterhouse during the 24 hours before slaughter and have shown no evidence of foot-and-mouth disease, rinderpest, classical swine fever, African swine fever or swine vesicular disease; (d) they have undergone all precautions to avoid recontamination with pathogenic agents; and (e) a certificate conforming to the model laid down in Chapter 5(A) of Annex X accompanies them. 6.
Member States must authorise the import of treated hides and skins if: (a) they have been obtained from animals referred to in Article 6(1)(b), (c) or (k); (b) a certificate conforming to the model laid down in Chapter 5(B) of Annex X accompanies them; (c) they come either: (i) from animals originating in a region of a third country or in a third country not subject, pursuant to Community legislation, to restrictions as a result of an outbreak of a serious transmissible disease to which the animals of the species concerned are susceptible and they have been treated in accordance with paragraph 2, or (ii) from animals originating from other regions of a third country or other third countries and they have been treated in accordance with paragraph 2(c) or (d), or (iii) from ruminant animals and have been treated in accordance with paragraph 2 and have been kept separate for 21 days or have undergone transport for 21 uninterrupted days.
In this case, the certificate referred to in subparagraph (b) is replaced by a declaration conforming to the model laid down in Chapter 5(C) of Annex X, to the effect that or proving that those requirements have been met; (d) in the case of salted hides and skins transported by ship, the hides have been salted before importation for the duration stated in the certificate accompanying the consignment; and (e) the consignment has not been in contact with other animal products or with live animals presenting a risk of spreading a serious transmissible disease. 7.
In respect of game trophies consisting solely of hides or skin, the trophies must: (a) have been either: (i) dried, or (ii) dry- or wet-salted for a minimum of 14 days before dispatch, or (iii) preserved by a treatment other that tanning approved in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 33(2); (b) be packaged, immediately after treatment, without being in contact with other products of animal origin likely to contaminate them, in individual, transparent and closed packages so as to avoid any subsequent contamination; and (c) be accompanied by a document or certificate certifying that the above conditions have been met.
CHAPTER IX Requirements for apiculture products A.
Any derogation must be established, as necessary, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 33(2).
Each consignment must be accompanied by: (a) a commercial document stamped by the competent authority supervising the establishment of origin, including the following information: (i) the country of origin, (ii) the name of the establishment of production, (iii) the nature of the product (dried bone/dried bone product/dried horns/dried horn products/dried hooves/dried hoof products), and (iv) the fact that the product was: - derived from healthy animals slaughtered in a slaughterhouse, or - dried for 42 days at an average temperature of at least 20 °C, or - heated for one hour to at least 80 °C to the core before drying, or - ashed for one hour to at least 80 °C to the core before drying, or - underwent an acidification process such that the pH was maintained at less than 6 to the core for at least one hour before drying, and is not intended at any stage to be diverted for any use in food, feed material, organic fertilizers or soil improvers; and (b) the following declaration of the importer which must be in at least one official language of the Member State through which the consignment first enters the Community and in at least one official language of the Member State of destination: %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2002273EN.005501.TIF%quot%%gt% 3.
Directive as last amended by Commission Decision 2000/505/EC (OJ L 201, 9.8.2000, p. 8). (2) Council Directive 90/426/EEC of 26 June 1990 on animal health conditions governing the movement and import from third countries of equidae (OJ L 224, 18.8.1990, p. 42).
Directive as last amended by Commission Decision 2001/298/EC (OJ L 102, 12.4.2001, p. 63). (3) OJ 121, 29.7.1964, p. 2012.
Directive as last amended by Directive 95/23/EC (OJ L 243, 11.10.1995, p. 7). (4) OJ L 302, 31.12.1972, p. 24.
Directive last amended by the 1994 Act of Accession. (5) OJ L 61, 3.3.1997, p. 1.
Regulation as last amended by Commission Regulation No 1579/2001 (OJ L 209, 2.8.2001, p. 14). (6) OJ L 44, 17.2.1994, p. 33. (7) Council Directive 92/65/EEC of 13 July 1992 laying down animal health requirements governing trade in and imports into the Community of animals, semen, ova and embryos not subject to animal health requirements laid down in specific Community rules referred to in Annex A(I) to Directive 90/425/EEC (OJ L 268, 14.9.1992, p. 54).
Directive as last amended by Commission Decision 2001/298/EC (OJ L 102, 12.4.2001, p. 63).
Collection centres must: (a) comply at least with the following requirements of Annex V: (i) Chapter I, paragraphs 1(a), (b), (c), (d) and (f), 2, 3 and 4, and (ii) Chapter II, paragraphs 1, 2, 4, 5 and 9; and (b) have adequate facilities for destroying unused unprocessed relevant material, or send it to a processing plant or to an incineration or co-incineration plant in accordance with this Regulation.
ANNEX X MODEL HEALTH CERTIFICATES FOR THE IMPORTATION FROM THIRD COUNTRIES OF CERTAIN ANIMAL BY-PRODUCTS AND PRODUCTS DERIVED THEREFROM CHAPTER 1 %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2002273EN.005802.TIF%quot%%gt% %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2002273EN.005901.TIF%quot%%gt% %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2002273EN.006001.TIF%quot%%gt% CHAPTER 2(A) %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2002273EN.006101.TIF%quot%%gt% %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2002273EN.006201.TIF%quot%%gt% CHAPTER 2(B) %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2002273EN.006301.TIF%quot%%gt% %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2002273EN.006401.TIF%quot%%gt% CHAPTER 2(C) %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2002273EN.006501.TIF%quot%%gt% %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2002273EN.006601.TIF%quot%%gt% CHAPTER 3(A) %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2002273EN.006701.TIF%quot%%gt% %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2002273EN.006801.TIF%quot%%gt% CHAPTER 3(B) %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2002273EN.006901.TIF%quot%%gt% %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2002273EN.007001.TIF%quot%%gt% %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2002273EN.007101.TIF%quot%%gt% CHAPTER 3(C) %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2002273EN.007201.TIF%quot%%gt% %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2002273EN.007301.TIF%quot%%gt% CHAPTER 3(D) %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2002273EN.007401.TIF%quot%%gt% %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2002273EN.007501.TIF%quot%%gt% CHAPTER 4 %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2002273EN.007601.TIF%quot%%gt% %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2002273EN.007701.TIF%quot%%gt% CHAPTER 5(A) %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2002273EN.007801.TIF%quot%%gt% %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2002273EN.007901.TIF%quot%%gt% CHAPTER 5(B) %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2002273EN.008001.TIF%quot%%gt% %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2002273EN.008101.TIF%quot%%gt% CHAPTER 5(C) %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2002273EN.008201.TIF%quot%%gt% %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2002273EN.008301.TIF%quot%%gt% CHAPTER 6(A) %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2002273EN.008401.TIF%quot%%gt% %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2002273EN.008501.TIF%quot%%gt% CHAPTER 6(B) %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2002273EN.008601.TIF%quot%%gt% %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2002273EN.008701.TIF%quot%%gt% CHAPTER 7(A) %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2002273EN.008801.TIF%quot%%gt% %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2002273EN.008901.TIF%quot%%gt% CHAPTER 7(B) %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2002273EN.009001.TIF%quot%%gt% %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2002273EN.009101.TIF%quot%%gt% CHAPTER 8 %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2002273EN.009201.TIF%quot%%gt% %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2002273EN.009301.TIF%quot%%gt% ANNEX XI LISTS OF THIRD COUNTRIES FROM WHICH MEMBER STATES MAY AUTHORISE IMPORTS OF ANIMAL BY-PRODUCTS NOT INTENDED FOR HUMAN CONSUMPTION The inclusion of a country on one of the following lists is a necessary, but not sufficient, condition for the importation of relevant products from that country.
PART I List of third countries from which Member States may authorise imports of milk and milk-based products Third countries listed in column B or column C of the Annex to Decision 95/340/EC.
Blood products from ungulates Third countries or parts of countries listed in Part I of the Annex to Decision 79/542/EEC from which imports of all categories of fresh meat of the respective species are authorised.
Blood products from other species Third countries listed in Part I of the Annex to Decision 79/542/EEC.
Blood products from ungulates Third countries or parts of countries listed in Part I of the Annex to Decision 79/542/EEC from which imports of all categories of fresh meat of the respective species are authorised.
Blood products from other species Third countries listed in Part I of the Annex to Decision 79/542/EEC.
PART VII List of third countries from which Member States may authorise imports of unprocessed material for the manufacture of petfood and technical products A.
Unprocessed material from bovine, ovine, caprine, porcine and equine animals Third countries or parts of countries listed in Part I of the Annex to Decision 79/542/EEC from which imports of all categories of fresh meat of the respective species are authorised.
Unprocessed material from other species Third countries listed in Part I of the Annex to Decision 79/542/EEC.
Processed manure products Third countries listed in Part I of the Annex to Decision 79/542/EEC.
PART X List of third countries from which Member States may authorise imports of petfood and dogchews Third countries listed in Part I of the Annex to Decision 79/542/EEC, and the following countries: (LK) Sri Lanka(1) (JP) Japan(2) (TW) Taiwan(3).
PART XI List of third countries from which Member States may authorise imports of gelatin, hydrolysed protein and dicalcium phosphate Third countries listed in Part I of the Annex to Decision 79/542/EEC, and the following countries: (KR) The Republic of Korea(4) (MY) Malaysia(5) (PK) Pakistan(6) (TW) Taiwan(7). (1) Dogchews made from hides and skins of ungulates only. (2) Processed petfood for ornamental fish only. (3) Processed petfood for ornamental fish only. (4) Gelatin only. (5) Gelatin only. (6) Gelatin only. (7) Gelatin only.
