2002/499/EC: Commission Decision of 26 June 2002 authorising derogations from certain provisions of Council Directive 2000/29/EC in respect of naturally or artificially dwarfed plants of Chamaecyparis Spach, Juniperus L.
and Pinus L., other than fruits and seeds, originating in the Republic of Korea.
In order to qualify for these derogations, plants of Chamaecyparis Spach, Juniperus L.
and Pinus L., other than fruits and seeds, shall satisfy, in addition to the requirements laid down in Annex I, Annex II and in part A, Section I, point 43 of Annex IV to Directive 2000/29/EC, the conditions set out in the Annex to this Decision.
Article 2 Member States shall provide the Commission and the other Member States, before 1 August 2005, with the information on quantities imported prior to that date pursuant to this Decision and with a detailed technical report of the examination and/or tests carried out on these plants during the quarantine period referred to in point 10 of the Annex.
Any Member State, other than that of importation, in which the plants are introduced, shall also provide the Commission and the other Member States, before 1 August 2005, with a detailed technical report of the examination and/or tests carried out on these plants introduced prior to that date during the quarantine period referred to in point 10 of the Annex.
Article 3 Member States shall notify the Commission and the other Member States of all cases of consignments introduced into their territory pursuant to this Decision which were subsequently found not to comply with the conditions laid down herein.
Article 4 Member States may apply the derogations mentioned in Article 1 to Pinus and Chamaecyparis plants imported into the Community in the period from 1 June 2004 to 31 December 2005, and to Juniperus plants imported into the Community in the period from 1 November 2004 to 31 March 2005.
Article 5 This Decision shall apply from 1 July 2002.
Article 6 This Decision is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 26 June 2002.
For the Commission David Byrne Member of the Commission (1) OJ L 169, 10.7.2000, p. 1. (2) OJ L 116, 3.5.2002, p. 16.
ANNEX Specific conditions applying to plants, originating in the Republic of Korea, benefiting from the derogation provided for in Article 1 of this Decision 1.
The annual lists of the registered nurseries shall be made available to the Commission, at the latest by 1 March 2004.
For Juniperus plants, the plants of the genera Chaenomeles Lindl., Crataegus L., Cydonia Mill., Juniperus L., Malus Mill., Photinia Ldl.
The harmful organisms of concern are: (a) for Juniperus plants, - Aschistonyx eppoi Inouye, - Gymnosporangium asiaticum Miyabe ex Yamada and G.
yamadae Miyabe ex Yamada, - Oligonychus perditus Pritchard et Baker, - Popillia japonica Newman, - any other harmful organism which is not known to occur in the Community; (b) for Chamaecyparis plants, - Popillia japonica Newman, - any other harmful organism which is not known to occur in the Community; (c) for Pinus plants, - Bursaphelenchus xylophilus (Steiner %amp% Buehrer) Nickle et al., - Cercoseptoria pini-densiflorae (Hori %amp% Nambu) Deighton, - Coleosporium phellodendri Komr, - Coleosporium asterum (Dietel) Sydow, - Coleosporium eupatorii Arthur, - Cronartium quercuum (Berk.) Miyabe ex Shirai, - Dendrolimus spectabilis Butler, - Monochamus spp. (non European), - Popillia japonica Newman, - Thecodiplosis japonensis Uchida %amp% Inouye, - any other harmful organism which is not known to occur in the Community.
The material shall be subject, before it is released, to official post-entry quarantine for a period of not less than three months of active growth in the case of Pinus and Chamaecyparis plants and for a period including the active growth season from 1 April until 30 June in the case of Juniperus plants and must be found free, during this quarantine period, from any harmful organisms of concern.
