Equipment of a type which may contain PCBs shall be treated as if it contains PCBs unless it is reasonable to assume the contrary; (c) 'used PCBs` means any PCBs which are waste within the meaning of Directive 75/442/EEC; (d) 'holder` means the natural or legal person who is in possession of PCBs, used PCBs and/or equipment containing PCBs; (e) 'decontamination` means all operations which enable equipment, objects, materials or fluids contaminated by PCBs to be reused, recycled or disposed of under safe conditions, and which may include replacement, meaning all operations in which PCBs are replaced by suitable fluids not containing PCBs; (f) 'disposal` means operations D 8, D 9, D 10, D 12 (only in safe, deep, underground storage in dry rock formations and only for equipment containing PCBs and used PCBs which cannot be decontaminated) and D 15 provided for in Annex II A of Directive 75/442/EEC.
Article 3 Without prejudice to their international obligations, Member States shall take the necessary measures to ensure that used PCBs are disposed of and PCBs and equipment containing PCBs are decontaminated or disposed of as soon as possible.
In order to comply with Article 3, Member States shall ensure that inventories are compiled of equipment with PCB volumes of more than 5 dm続, and shall send summaries of such inventories to the Commission at the latest three years after the adoption of this Directive.
In the case of power capacitors, the threshold of 5 dm続 shall be understood as including all the separate elements of a combined set. 2.
By way of derogation from Article 3 of Directive 75/442/EEC Member States shall prohibit the separation of PCBs from other substances for the purpose of reusing the PCBs. 2.
Member States shall take the necessary measures to ensure that used PCBs and equipment containing PCBs which is subject to inventory in accordance with Article 4 (1) are transferred as soon as possible to undertakings licensed pursuant to Article 8. 2.
Article 7 Member States shall take the necessary measures to prohibit any incineration of PCBs and/or used PCBs on ships.
Member States shall take the necessary measures to ensure that all undertakings engaged in the decontamination and/or the disposal of PCBs, used PCBs and/or equipment containing PCBs obtain permits in accordance with Article 9 of Directive 75/442/EEC. 2.
Article 10 The Commission, acting in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 18 of Directive 75/442/EEC: (a) shall fix the reference methods of measurement to determine the PCB content of contaminated materials.
With effect from the date referred to in paragraph 1: (a) the reference in Article 10 (1) of Directive 87/101/EEC (14) to 'PCBs and PCTs within the meaning of Directive 76/403/EEC` shall be construed as a reference to PCBs within the meaning of this Directive; (b) the reference in Article 10 (2) of Directive 87/101/EEC to Directive 76/403/EEC shall be construed as a reference to this Directive; (c) the reference in Article 2 (j) of Regulation (EEC) No 259/93 to Article 6 of Directive 76/403/EEC shall be construed as a reference to Article 8 of this Directive.
Article 14 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 16 September 1996.
