Article 2 Classification of methods A classification of methods into most appropriate methods, alternatives which may be used if the most appropriate methods cannot be applied, and methods which shall not be used is laid down in Annex I to this Decision for products and transaction categories for which this classification is not yet defined by Decision 98/715/EC.
Article 3 Timetable of implementation of the classifications Annex II lays down the timetable of implementation of the classifications referred to in Article 2.
Article 4 This Decision is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 17 December 2002.
For the Commission Pedro Solbes Mira Member of the Commission (1) OJ L 310, 30.11.1996, p. 1. (2) OJ L 58, 28.2.2002, p. 1. (3) OJ L 209, 2.8.1997, p. 6. (4) OJ C 236, 2.8.1997, p. 1. (5) OJ L 340, 16.12.1998, p. 33. (6) OJ L 257, 27.10.1995, p. 1.
The prices received for those products are followed over time, as well as the characteristics of the products in order to control for quality changes. 3.
A, B AND C METHODS FOR OUTPUT BY PRODUCTS 3.1.
Two alternative methods which can be employed: - use of international prices can be a B method if the prices can be considered representative of the Member State's domestic production (at the most detailed product level) and cross-border trade flows: the markets must be competitive, the data properly stratified and weighted, a suitable method used for adjusting for exchange rate movements and foreign trade data should include second-hand equipment, - use of specific and robust quality adjustment methods can be A or B methods depending on the suitability of the industry, though ideally they should be used in combination with the decomposition of major assets into their constituent elements.
Model pricing and quality adjustment based on option prices (that is, estimating the marginal price of additional features) methods are both A methods for trains, provided that stratification at least extends to wagons/coaches/locomotives and to the different forms of propulsion technology.
An appropriate mechanism for taking into account different general price changes or exchange rate changes should be applied.
CPA 64 - Post and telecommunication services 3.4.1.
Post and courier services The use of appropriate and representative PPIs that take account of quality changes would be an A method.
Using detailed CPIs for business purchases where it is known that businesses receive discounts or purchase a different range of products than households would be a C method. 3.4.2.
Telecommunication services The deflation of output by quality adjusted PPIs would be an A method.
Using detailed CPIs for business purchases where it is known that businesses receive discounts or purchase a different range of products than households would be a C method. 3.5.
Examples of possible indicators are numbers of bank accounts, numbers and value of loans and deposits, numbers of cheques processed, etc.
However, important differences between the business market and the consumer market do exist and must be reflected by different output indicators for both markets.
This method does not account for changes in quality in the actual service provided.
The use of detailed volume indicators that reflect adequately the output would be B methods.
Examples of suitable volume indicators for different products are: - for the transfer of funds (payments, etc), the number of transfers or a volume indicator based on the amounts transferred is a B method, - for money funds, using the amounts managed deflated by a general price index (as described in section 3.5.1) is a suitable volume indicator.
The value of the outstanding credits deflated by a general price index (as described in section 3.5.1) would be a suitable volume indicator for a B method.
Output prices or volume indicators that reflect a small limited range of financial products or services, input methods or use of a general price index are C methods. 3.6.
Such a method (sometimes known as the direct service method) requires indicators at a very detailed level that take account of changes in the product mix.
CPA 67 - Services auxiliary to financial intermediation In the case of fixed fees, where separate prices exist for a charged-for service, current price output deflated by a PPI is an A method if changes in quality are reflected or a B method if quality change is not reflected.
For unique services, the use of model prices satisfying the criteria specified in section 2 of this Annex would also be an A method.
If no observable price of the rental service exists the price index of the actual product can be considered a B method. 3.10.
For market output, charge-out rates or hourly fees (see section 2) are B methods.
See section 3.13 on CPA 75 for the definition of A, B and C methods for collective services. 3.12.
Furthermore, for these standard services, collecting volume indicators (number of contracts drawn up, etc.) will be a B method, unless a method is found to adjust these indicators for quality changes.
A model pricing approach could also work well, and be an A method, provided the criteria in section 2 of this Annex are satisfied. 3.12.2.
CPA 74.12 - Accounting, book-keeping and auditing services; tax consultancy services The A method for accounting services would be to construct deflators based on contract prices for a range of the most important services provided under contract by accountants, e.g.
Collecting model prices would be an alternative to collecting actual prices and the method would also be an A method if it satisfies the criteria set out in section 2 of this Annex.
Using as a proxy an actual output price index for either legal services or accounting, bookkeeping, auditing and tax consultancy activities would - due to the common cost determinants for these different services - be a B method. 3.12.4.
CPA 74.2 - Architectural, engineering and related technical consultancy services Model prices provide an A method if the conditions of section 2 of this Annex are fulfilled.
Quantity measures could also be used but these would need to be compiled at a very detailed and representative level with quality changes accounted for to be an A method.
To that extent contract prices, which include quotes for specific types of workers, would be A methods, provided quality changes are properly accounted for.
CPA 74.6 - Investigation and security services The A method would be to collect actual contract prices.
CPA 74.7 - Industrial cleaning services For household services such as window cleaning and chimney cleaning, consumer price information could be used, as an A method for household consumption, and a B method for intermediate consumption.
Volume indicators that are representative of the output of the services can also be B methods.
CPA 75 - Public administration and defence services, compulsory social security services Individual services For individual services, the only methods that will be able to meet the criteria for A or B methods are methods that measure output.
For collective services, the classification of methods is broadly the same as for individual services, with two important exceptions that are due to the difficulty in defining the output of collective services: - input methods are B methods for collective services, - the use of volume indicators of activity is a B method.
A B method is to use appropriate CPIs, corrected to valuation in basic prices and reflecting the quality of the service provided.
Non-market services - Since prices are not available, the only A method for non-market output is to use %quot%pupil hours%quot% adjusted for quality as appropriate, with the stratification breakdown as above.
The B method is to use pupil hours in the required level of detail without an adjustment for quality.
Use of numbers of teacher hours would also be a C method. 3.15.
Output indicator methods which are classified as A or B below are also relevant for market output.
DRG based indicators with only partial quality adjustment are B methods.
The same indicator without adjustment for quality would be a B method.
CPA 85.13 - Dental practice services Most dental services are market services.
An A method is the use of the CPI adjusted to basic prices and for quality changes.
Under these conditions the total number of consultations (visits) is considered to be a B method. 3.15.4.
CPA 85.31 - Social work services with accommodation For market output deflation by the appropriate component of the CPI (adjusted to basic prices) is the A method.
Occupant days by type of institution and fully adjusted for changes in quality will also meet the requirements for an A method.
The number of persons receiving care by level of care is an A method for non-market output.
B methods include the use of detailed CPIs for both household and business consumption (where the evolution of prices for services to businesses is shown to be similar to services to households).
Gambling and betting services The A method for gambling and betting services is to directly deflate service charge data by a price index of these services, with adjustments for quality changes as appropriate.
News agencies The A method is to use a model pricing method based on subscriptions to a news service.
Use of these standard products would be an A method if all quality effects were taken into account, and a B method otherwise. 4.
A, B AND C METHODS FOR SOME TRANSACTION CATEGORIES 4.1.
B methods may fail to distinguish between domestic produce and imports, or they use methods that are classified as B methods for those products.
Also, if deflation methods are used that are classified as C methods for those products, these are C methods for intermediate consumption as well. 4.2.
The use of foreign country export prices for the deflation of imports is a B method where the coverage of the product is exact and, where necessary, adjustments for exchange rate movements and for different changes in overall prices between the two countries have been made.
For merchanting, which is a trade activity, the classification of methods for wholesale and retail trade margins is appropriate. 4.4.
Acquisition less disposals of valuables The A method applicable to production of valuables is if there is a suitable PPI for an industry producing valuables, which is adjusted properly for changes in quality (this may be possible for the jewellery industry for example).
The use of a general price index is a C method. (1) OJ L 58, 27.2.1998, p. 1.
ANNEX II TIMETABLE OF IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CLASSIFICATIONS An implementation date of e.g. 2004 for a particular product means that annual constant price data submitted to Eurostat under Council Regulation 2223/96 in 2004 and afterwards should comply with the A/B/C classification defined for that product.
Concretely, that means that from that date C methods are no longer allowed for that product. %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% Exceptions granted: Austria CPA 70 and 72: 2006 Denmark CPA 75 (individual), 80 and 85: 2012 Germany All product and transaction categories (as far as C methods are still used): 2005, except CPA 72: 2006 Greece CPA 30.02, 73 (non-market), 75 (collective) and exports and imports of goods except large equipment: 2005, rest: 2006 Spain CPA 70: 2005, CPA 30.02, 65, 66, 67, 72, 73 (non-market) and 75 (collective): 2006 Ireland CPA 30.02: 2005, CPA 64, 65, 66, 67, 70 and 72 and exports and imports of goods except large equipment: 2006 Luxembourg All products and transaction categories except CPA 71: 2006 Portugal CPA 30.02, 64, 65, 66, 67, 70 and 72: 2006 United Kingdom CPA 65: 2006
