Directive 2005/65/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 October 2005 on enhancing port security (Text with EEA relevance) Directive 2005/65/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 October 2005 on enhancing port security (Text with EEA relevance) THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular Article 80(2) thereof, Having regard to the proposal from the Commission, Having regard to the opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee [1], Having regard to the opinion of the Committee of the Regions [2], Acting in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 251 of the Treaty [3], Whereas: (1) Security incidents resulting from terrorism are among the greatest threats to the ideals of democracy, freedom and peace, which are the very essence of the European Union. (2) People, infrastructure and equipment in ports should be protected against security incidents and their devastating effects.
That Regulation is limited in scope to security measures on board vessels and the immediate ship/port interface. (4) In order to achieve the fullest protection possible for maritime and port industries, port security measures should be introduced, covering each port within the boundaries defined by the Member State concerned, and thereby ensuring that security measures taken pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 725/2004 benefit from enhanced security in the areas of port activity.
The measures should be taken in a way which impedes as little as possible the fluidity of the operations. (9) Member States should be able to establish port security committees entrusted with providing practical advice in the ports covered by this Directive. (10) Member States should ensure that responsibilities in port security are clearly recognised by all parties involved.
Member States should monitor compliance with security rules and clearly establish a responsible authority for all their ports, approve all security assessments and plans for their ports, set and communicate as appropriate security levels and ensure that measures are well communicated, implemented and coordinated. (11) Member States should approve assessments and plans and monitor their implementation in their ports.
In order to keep disruption to ports and the administrative burden on inspection bodies to a minimum, the Commission's monitoring of the implementation of this Directive should be conducted jointly with the inspections provided for in Article 9(4) of Regulation (EC) No 725/2004. (12) Member States should ensure that a focal point for port security takes up the role of contact point between the Commission and Member States.
This Directive shall also ensure that security measures taken pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 725/2004 benefit from enhanced port security. 2.
The measures referred to in paragraph 1 shall consist of: (a) common basic rules on port security measures; (b) an implementation mechanism for these rules; (c) appropriate compliance monitoring mechanisms.
Article 2 Scope 1.
Member States may apply the provisions of this Directive to port-related areas. 2.
The measures laid down in this Directive shall apply to every port located in the territory of a Member State in which one or more port facilities covered by an approved port facility security plan pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 725/2004 is or are situated.
Member States shall define for each port the boundaries of the port for the purposes of this Directive, appropriately taking into account information resulting from the port security assessment. 4.
Article 3 Definitions For the purpose of this Directive: 1. "port" means any specified area of land and water, with boundaries defined by the Member State in which the port is situated, containing works and equipment designed to facilitate commercial maritime transport operations; 2. "ship/port interface" means the interactions that occur when a ship is directly and immediately affected by actions involving the movement of persons or goods or the provision of port services to or from the ship; 3. "port facility" means a location where the ship/port interface takes place; this includes areas such as anchorages, waiting berths and approaches from seaward, as appropriate; 4. "focal point for port security" means the body designated by each Member State to serve as contact point for the Commission and other Member States and to facilitate, follow up and provide information on the application of the port security measures laid down in this Directive; 5. "port security authority" means the authority responsible for security matters in a given port.
Article 4 Coordination with measures taken in application of Regulation (EC) No 725/2004 Member States shall ensure that port security measures introduced by this Directive are closely coordinated with measures taken pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 725/2004.
Article 5 Port security authority 1.
Article 6 Port security assessment 1.
Port security assessments may be carried out by a recognised security organisation as referred to in Article 11. 4.
Article 7 Port security plan 1.
The monitoring shall be coordinated with other control activities carried out in the port. 7.
Article 8 Security levels 1.
There shall be three security levels, as defined in Regulation (EC) No 725/2004: - "Security level 1" means the level for which minimum appropriate protective security measures shall be maintained at all times; - "Security level 2" means the level for which appropriate additional protective security measures shall be maintained for a period of time as a result of a heightened risk of a security incident; - "Security level 3" means the level for which further specific protective security measures shall be maintained for a limited period of time when a security incident is probable or imminent, although it may not be possible to identify the specific target. 3.
Article 9 Port security officer 1.
Each port shall, where practicable, have a different port security officer, but may, if appropriate, share a security officer. 2.
Where the port security officer is not the same as the port facility(ies) security officer(s) under Regulation (EC) No 725/2004, close cooperation between them shall be ensured.
Article 10 Reviews 1.
The scope of the review shall be that of Articles 6 or 7, as appropriate.
Article 11 Recognised security organisation Member States may appoint recognised security organisations for the purposes specified in this Directive.
Article 12 Focal point for port security Member States shall appoint for port security aspects a focal point.
Article 13 Implementation and conformity checking 1.
The Commission shall, in cooperation with the focal points referred to in Article 12, monitor the implementation of this Directive by Member States. 3.
Article 14 Adaptations Annexes I to IV may be amended in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 15(2), without broadening the scope of this Directive.
Article 15 Committee procedure 1.
The Commission shall be assisted by the committee set up by Regulation (EC) No 725/2004. 2.
Article 16 Confidentiality and dissemination of information 1.
Article 17 Penalties Member States shall ensure that effective, proportionate and dissuasive penalties are introduced for infringements of the national provisions adopted pursuant to this Directive.
Article 18 Implementation 1.
Member States shall bring into force the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with this Directive by 15 June 2007.
Article 19 Evaluation report By 15 December 2008 and every five years thereafter, the Commission shall submit an evaluation report to the European Parliament and the Council based, among other things, on the information obtained pursuant to Article 13.
Article 20 Entry into force This Directive shall enter into force on the 20th day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Article 21 Addressees This Directive is addressed to the Member States which have ports as referred to in Article 2(2).
Done at Strasbourg, 26 October 2005.
Borrell Fontelles For the Council The President D.
Alexander [1] OJ C 120, 20.5.2005, p. 28. [2] OJ C 43, 18.2.2005, p. 26. [3] Opinion of the European Parliament of 10 May 2005 (not yet published in the Official Journal) and Council Decision of 6 October 2005. [4] OJ L 129, 29.4.2004, p. 6. [5] OJ L 184, 17.7.1999, p. 23. [6] OJ L 317, 3.12.2001, p. 1.
Decision as last amended by Decision 2005/94/EC, Euratom (OJ L 31, 4.2.2005, p. 66). -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX I PORT SECURITY ASSESSMENT The port security assessment is the basis for the port security plan and its implementation.
This includes port facilities which are already covered by Regulation (EC) No 725/2004 and whose risk assessment will serve as a basis; - identify security issues deriving from the interface between port facility and other port security measures; - identify which port personnel will be subject to background checks and/or security vetting because of their involvement in high-risk areas; - subdivide, if useful, the port according to the likelihood of security incidents.
Special attention will be given to the risk of human casualties; - identify the possibility of cluster effects of security incidents; - identify the vulnerabilities of each sub-area; - identify all organisational aspects relevant to overall port security, including the division of all security-related authorities, existing rules and procedures; - identify vulnerabilities of the overarching port security related to organisational, legislative and procedural aspects; - identify measures, procedures and actions aimed at reducing critical vulnerabilities.
Special attention will be paid to the interfaces between sub-areas, as identified in the port security assessment; - ensuring coordination between security measures for areas with different security characteristics; - providing, where necessary, for varying measures both with regard to different parts of the port, changing security levels, and specific intelligence; - identifying an organisational structure supporting the enhancement of port security.
All requirements and thresholds will be comprehensively included in the port security plan; - ID, luggage and cargo control requirements.
All relevant security information will be properly communicated according to security clearance standards included in the plan.
The plan will specifically deal with integration with other preventive and control activities in force in the port; - integration with other response plans and/or inclusion of specific response measures, procedures and actions.
It will delineate the tasks of the port security committee, if this exists; - procedures for adapting and updating the port security plan. -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX III BASIC SECURITY TRAINING EXERCISE REQUIREMENTS Various types of training exercises which may involve participation of port facility security officers, in conjunction with the relevant authorities of Member States, company security officers, or ship security officers, if available, will be carried out at least once each calendar year with no more than 18 months elapsing between the training exercises.
