Article 2 Definitions For the purpose of this Regulation, a 'sub-index of the HICP` is defined as a price index for any of the categories of expenditure listed in Annex I and illustrated in Annex II to this Regulation.
Article 3 Production and transmission of sub-indices Member States shall produce and transmit to the Commission (Eurostat) each month all sub-indices (Annex I) which have a weight accounting for more than one part in a thousand of the total expenditure covered by the HICP (4).
Article 4 Dissemination of sub-indices The Commission (Eurostat) shall disseminate sub-indices of the HICPs for the categories listed in Annex I to this Regulation taking 1996 = 100.
Article 5 Quality control Member States shall provide the Commission (Eurostat), at its request, with information on the allocation of goods and services to the categories of expenditure of Annex I and II sufficient to evaluate compliance with this Regulation.
Article 6 Entry into force This Regulation shall enter into force on the 20th day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Done at Brussels, 20 November 1996.
For the Commission Yves-Thibault DE SILGUY Member of the Commission (1) OJ No L 257, 27. 10. 1995, p. 1. (2) OJ No L 181, 28. 6. 1989, p. 47. (3) Annex I to Commission Regulation (EC) No 1749/96 of 9 September 1996 on initial implementing measures for Council Regulation (EC) No 2494/95 concerning harmonized indices of consumer prices (OJ No L 229, 10. 9. 1996, p. 3). (4) In accordance with Article 3 of Regulation (EC) No 1749/96.
ANNEX I HICP SUB-INDICES %gt%TABLE%gt% ANNEX II ILLUSTRATION OF HICP SUB-INDICES: BREAKDOWN BY DIVISION (two-digit level), GROUP (three-digit level) AND CLASS (1) (four-digit level) (2) 01.
The heading thus excludes products normally sold for immediate consumption, such as sandwiches, hot dogs, ice creams, etc. (11.1.1).
Excludes: Meat pies (01.1.2); fish pies (01.1.3); sweetcorn (01.1.7); homogenized babyfoods, dietary products and culinary ingredients containing at least 50 % cocoa (01.1.8). 01.1.2 Meat (ND) - Fresh, chilled or frozen meat of: - bovine animals, sheep, goat and swine, - poultry and edible poultry offal, - hare, rabbit and game (deer, boar, pheasant, grouse, etc.), - horse, mule, donkey, camel and the like, - fresh, chilled or frozen edible meat offal, - dried, salted or smoked meat and edible meat offal (sausages, salami, bacon, ham, pâté, etc.), - other preserved or processed meat and meat preparations (canned meat, meat extracts, meat juices, meat pies, etc.).
Includes: garlic, ginger, pimento; homogenized babyfood, dietary preparations and culinary ingredients except for those based on flour starch or malt extract (01.1.1) or based exclusively on fruits (01.1.6) or vegetables (01.1.7) or containing at least 50 % cocoa (01.1.8).
Excludes: Other smokers' articles (12.2). 03.
HOUSING, WATER, ELECTRICITY, GAS AND OTHER FUELS 04.1 Actual rentals for housing (S) Rentals normally include payment for the use of the land on which the property stands, space occupied and fixtures and fittings for heating, plumbing, lighting, etc.
Expenditures by owner-occupiers on materials for the regular repair and maintenance of dwellings to be undertaken by the owner-occupiers themselves are part of individual consumption expenditure by households.
Expenditures by owner-occupiers on services for the regular repair and maintenance of dwellings equivalent to similar expenditures incurred by tenants are also part of individual consumption expenditure.
Excludes: Medical and pharmaceutical products and therapeutic appliances and equipment which are partly or wholly reimbursed or paid by the social security system of the Member State (not in the index); all services, for example hire of therapeutic equipment and other services (not in the index); sun-glasses not fitted with corrective lenses (12.2); protective goggles, belts and supports for sport (09.1.5); medicinal soaps (12.1.2); veterinary products (09.1.8). 07.
Excludes: Invalid carriages (06.A); golf carts (09.1.4). 07.2 Operation of personal transport equipment Purchases of materials made by households with the intention of undertaking the maintenance or repairs themselves should be shown under 07.2.1 or 07.2.2.
Excludes: Charges for oil changes and greasing (07.2.3). 07.2.3 Maintenance and repairs (S) (4) - Services purchased for the maintenance and repair of transport equipment such as fitting of parts and accessories, wheel balancing, technical inspection, breakdown services, oil changes, greasing and washing.
Covers the total value of the service, that is both the cost of labour and the cost of materials used are included. 07.2.4A Other services in respect of personal transport equipment (S) Following the conventions of ESA 1995 included are payments by households for licences, permits, etc.
Excludes: Horses and ponies (09.1.4); veterinary services (09.2). 09.1.9 Repair of equipment and accessories for recreation and culture (S) - Repair of audio-visual equipment, personal computers, musical instruments, aeroplanes and boats for recreation, games, toys and equipment for sport, hunting, fishing and camping 09.2A Recreational and cultural services (S) - Services provided by: - cinemas, theatres, opera houses, concert halls, music halls, - sports stadia, cycle tracks, horse-racing tracks, etc., - museums, libraries, art galleries, exhibitions, - historic monuments, national parks, zoological and botanical gardens, - sound and light shows, - circuses, fairs and amusement parks, - roundabouts, see-saws and other playground facilities for children, - pin-ball machines and other games for adults other than games of chance, - ski slopes and ski lifts - Hire of equipment and accessories for recreation and culture, in particular television sets, video cassettes, aeroplanes, boats, horses, skiing or camping equipment - Entrance fees to swimming pools and hire of tennis courts, squash courts and bowling alleys - Out-of-school individual or group lessons in bridge, dancing, music, skiing, swimming or other pastimes - Services of musicians, clowns, performers for private entertainment - Services of photographers such as developing, printing, enlarging, portrait photography, etc. - Veterinary and other services for pets such as grooming and boarding - Services of mountain guides, tour guides, etc.
Excludes: Stamp albums (09.1.5), pre-franked postcards and aerogrammes (8.1.1), pocket calculators (09.1.3). 09.4 Package holidays (S) - All inclusive holidays or tours which provide for travel, food, accommodation, guides, etc.
Excludes: Travel insurance (not in the index); rentals of households occupying accommodation for the duration of the holiday period (04.1); rentals for accommodation in holiday villages and holiday centres (11.2). 10.A EDUCATION - Commonly paid by consumers in Member States (S) Covers education services commonly paid for by consumers in Member States; as such identified by member States in the following: - Level 9 of the International Standard Classification of Education (Isced): educational programmes, generally for adults, which do not require any special prior instruction, in particular vocational training and cultural development.
Includes: Computer courses, language courses, typing courses, etc.
Excludes: Tobacco purchases (02.2). 11.1.2 Canteens (S) Catering services of works canteens, office canteens and canteens in schools, universities and other educational establishments.
Excludes: Ornaments (05.1.1 or 05.4); radio clocks (09.1.1); baby furniture (05.1.1); pencil boxes (09.3.4); shopping bags (05.2). 12.4A Insurance (S) (6)Service charges for insurance are classified by type of insurance.
Excludes: Following the conventions of ESA 1995 excluded are contributions and dues for membership of professional associations, churches and social, cultural, recreational and sports clubs (ESA 1995, paragraph 3.77 e). (1) Most classes comprise either goods or services.
Such classes are usually assigned an (S) as the service component is considered to be predominant. (E) indicates 'energy` and (SEA) 'seasonal products`. (2) Based on the final draft on the Coicop classification as adopted at a joint UN-ECE/OECD/Eurostat meeting on national accounts held in Geneva 30 April to 3 May 1996. (3) 'Consumers pay according to consumption`: (i) when they pay metered (measured) charges, (ii) when they pay a flat rate which can be regarded as an estimation of their consumption of the service, or (iii) when they pay a connection fee which allows a certain amount of consumption of the service; consumers do not pay according to consumption when the service is financed out of taxation. (4) The weight for this position should be adjusted to include repairs paid out of claims direct from insurance companies (see also 12.4A). (5) Covered are all purchases of accommodation services available for purchase in the economic territory of the Member States. (6) The weights and prices for this position should be net of claims.
