Article 2 Determination of market disruption 1.
Significant trade diversion shall exist when an action by China or another WTO member taken to prevent or remedy market disruption in that WTO member's market causes or threatens to cause an increase in imports of a product from China into the Community. 2.
Article 4 Definition of Community industry For the purposes of this Regulation, the term %quot%Community industry%quot% shall be interpreted as referring to the Community producers as a whole of the like or directly competitive products operating within the territory of the Community or those of them whose collective output of the like or directly competitive products constitutes a major proportion of the total Community production of those products.
Article 5 Initiation of proceedings 1.
The notification may be accompanied by an invitation for consultations with the aim of clarifying the situation as to matters referred to in Articles 1, 2 and 3, as appropriate, and arriving at a mutually satisfactory solution. 4.
Article 6 The investigation 1.
The Commission shall seek all information it deems to be necessary to make a determination with regard to the criteria laid down in Articles 1, 2 and 3, as appropriate, and where it considers it appropriate, endeavour to verify this information. 3.
The interested parties which have made themselves known in accordance with Article 5(5) and the Government of China, may, upon written request, inspect all information made available to the Commission by any party to an investigation, as distinct from internal documents prepared by the authorities of the Community or its Member States, which is relevant to the presentation of their cases and not confidential within the meaning of Article 17, and that it is used in the investigation.
Article 7 Imposition of provisional safeguard measures 1.
Provisional safeguard measures can, inter alia, take the form of customs duties and quantitative restrictions of imports originating in China. 5.
The duration of the provisional measures shall not exceed 200 days. 6.
Should the provisional safeguard measure be repealed because the conditions contained in Articles 1, 2 or 3, as appropriate, were not met, any duties collected as a result of the provisional measures shall be automatically refunded.
Article 8 Termination without measures Where, after consultation with Member States, safeguard or trade diversion measures are unnecessary and there is no objection raised within the Advisory Committee, the investigation or proceeding shall be terminated by Commission decision.
Article 9 Imposition of definitive measures 1.
Where the facts as finally established show that the conditions laid down in Articles 1, 2 and 3, as appropriate, are met, and the Community interest calls for intervention in accordance with Article 19, the Commission shall request consultations with the Government of China with a view to seeking a mutually satisfactory solution. 2.
If the consultations referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article do not lead to a mutually satisfactory solution within 60 days of the receipt of a request for consultations, a definitive safeguard or trade diversion measure shall be imposed after consultation with Member States. 3.
Where the imposition of a measure by the Commission has been requested by a Member State, the Commission shall take a decision within a maximum of five working days of receipt of such a request. 4.
Definitive measures can, inter alia, take the form of customs duties and quantitative restrictions of imports originating in China.
Article 10 Regional measures Where it emerges, primarily on the basis of the factors referred to in Articles 2 and 3, respectively, that the conditions laid down for the adoption of measures pursuant to Articles 7 and 9 are met in one or more Member States, the Commission, after having examined alternative solutions, may exceptionally authorise the application of safeguard measures limited to the Member State concerned if it considers that such measures applied at that level are more appropriate than measures applied throughout the Community.
The measures shall be adopted in accordance with the provisions laid down in Articles 7 and 9 respectively.
Article 11 Duration 1.
A trade diversion measure shall be terminated not later than 30 days after the expiration of the action taken by the WTO member involved against imports from China.
Article 12 Review of safeguard measures 1.
Article 13 Review of trade diversion measures 1.
Article 14 General provisions 1.
The provisions of this paragraph shall apply mutatis mutandis to reviews. 3.
Special provisions, in particular with regard to the common definition of the concept of origin, as contained in Regulation (EEC) No 2913/92, may be adopted pursuant to this Regulation. 4.
Article 16 Verification visits 1.
In investigations carried out pursuant to paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, the Commission shall be assisted by officials of those Member States which so request.
Article 17 Confidentiality 1.
Exchanges of information between the Commission, the Council and Member States, or any information relating to consultations made pursuant to Article 12, or consultations described in Article 5(3) and Article 9(1), or any internal documents prepared by the authorities of the Community or its Member States, shall not be divulged to the public or any party to the proceeding except as specifically provided for in this Regulation. 6.
Article 18 Disclosure 1.
Requests for such disclosure shall be made in writing immediately following the imposition of provisional measures, and the disclosure shall be made in writing as soon as possible thereafter. 2.
Requests for final disclosure shall be addressed to the Commission in writing and be received, in cases where a provisional measure has been applied, not later than one month after publication of the imposition of that measure.
It shall be made, due regard being had to the protection of confidential information, as soon as possible and, normally, not later than one month prior to a definitive decision or the submission by the Commission of any proposal for final action pursuant to Articles 8 and 9.
Disclosure shall not prejudice any subsequent decision which may be taken by the Commission or the Council but where such decision is based on any different facts and considerations, these shall be disclosed as soon as possible. 5.
Article 19 Community interest 1.
In order to provide a sound basis on which the authorities can take account of all views and information in the decision as to whether or not the imposition of measures is in the Community interest, the importers and their representative associations, representative users and representative consumer organisations may, within the time limits specified in the notice of initiation of the investigation, make themselves known and provide information to the Commission.
The parties which have acted in conformity with paragraph 2 may request a hearing.
The parties which have acted in conformity with paragraph 2 may provide comments on the application of any provisional measures imposed.
The parties which have acted in conformity with paragraph 2 may request the facts and considerations on which final decisions are likely to be taken to be made available to them.
TITLE II QUOTAS FOR CERTAIN PRODUCTS ORIGINATING IN CHINA Article 20 Principles and phasing-out of quotas 1.
Article 21 Attribution of import licences 1.
The allocation method for the additional quantities for the years 2002 and 2003 resulting from the quota increases provided for in Annex II and an appropriate period of the time for their utilisation shall be established by a Commission Regulation. 2.
TITLE III GENERAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS Article 22 Repeal and amendment of certain provisions 1.
The Commission may, after consultation of the Committee established under Article 4 of Regulation (EC) No 519/94, amend Annex I to Regulation (EC) 519/94 by Commission regulation, in order to remove countries from the list of third countries contained in this Annex when they become members of the WTO.
Article 23 Final provisions 1.
Measures imposed under this Regulation shall at the latest expire on 11 December 2013.
Article 24 Entry into force This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Title I shall expire on 11 December 2013.
ANNEX I Phasing-out timetable of industrial (non-textile) quotas on imports originating in China %gt%TABLE%gt% ANNEX II Increase in the quotas for 2002 and 2003 %gt%TABLE%gt%
