2000/520/EC: Commission Decision of 26 July 2000 pursuant to Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on the adequacy of the protection provided by the safe harbour privacy principles and related frequently asked questions issued by the US Department of Commerce (notified under document number C(2000) 2441) (Text with EEA relevance.) Commission Decision of 26 July 2000 pursuant to Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on the adequacy of the protection provided by the safe harbour privacy principles and related frequently asked questions issued by the US Department of Commerce (notified under document number C(2000) 2441) (Text with EEA relevance) (2000/520/EC) THE COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, Having regard to Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 October 1995 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data(1), and in particular Article 25(6) thereof, Whereas: (1) Pursuant to Directive 95/46/EC Member States are required to provide that the transfer of personal data to a third country may take place only if the third country in question ensures an adequate level of protection and the Member State laws implementing other provisions of the Directive are respected prior to the transfer. (2) The Commission may find that a third country ensures an adequate level of protection.
In that case personal data may be transferred from the Member States without additional guarantees being necessary. (3) Pursuant to Directive 95/46/EC the level of data protection should be assessed in the light of all the circumstances surrounding a data transfer operation or a set of data transfer operations and in respect of given conditions.
The Working Party on Protection of Individuals with regard to the Processing of Personal Data established under that Directive(2) has issued guidance on the making of such assessments(3). (4) Given the different approaches to data protection in third countries, the adequacy assessment should be carried out and any decision based on Article 25(6) of Directive 95/46/EC should be enforced in a way that does not arbitrarily or unjustifiably discriminate against or between third countries where like conditions prevail nor constitute a disguised barrier to trade taking into account the Community's present international commitments. (5) The adequate level of protection for the transfer of data from the Community to the United States recognised by this Decision, should be attained if organisations comply with the safe harbour privacy principles for the protection of personal data transferred from a Member State to the United States (hereinafter %quot%the Principles%quot%) and the frequently asked questions (hereinafter %quot%the FAQs%quot%) providing guidance for the implementation of the Principles issued by the Government of the United States on 21 July 2000.
In relation to each transfer of data the following conditions shall be met: (a) the organisation receiving the data has unambiguously and publicly disclosed its commitment to comply with the Principles implemented in accordance with the FAQs; and (b) the organisation is subject to the statutory powers of a government body in the United States listed in Annex VII to this Decision which is empowered to investigate complaints and to obtain relief against unfair or deceptive practices as well as redress for individuals, irrespective of their country of residence or nationality, in case of non-compliance with the Principles implemented in accordance with the FAQs. 3.
The conditions set out in paragraph 2 are considered to be met for each organisation that self-certifies its adherence to the Principles implemented in accordance with the FAQs from the date on which the organisation notifies to the US Department of Commerce (or its designee) the public disclosure of the commitment referred to in paragraph 2(a) and the identity of the government body referred to in paragraph 2(b).
Article 2 This Decision concerns only the adequacy of protection provided in the United States under the Principles implemented in accordance with the FAQs with a view to meeting the requirements of Article 25(1) of Directive 95/46/EC and does not affect the application of other provisions of that Directive that pertain to the processing of personal data within the Member States, in particular Article 4 thereof.
Without prejudice to their powers to take action to ensure compliance with national provisions adopted pursuant to provisions other than Article 25 of Directive 95/46/EC, the competent authorities in Member States may exercise their existing powers to suspend data flows to an organisation that has self-certified its adherence to the Principles implemented in accordance with the FAQs in order to protect individuals with regard to the processing of their personal data in cases where: (a) the government body in the United States referred to in Annex VII to this Decision or an independent recourse mechanism within the meaning of letter (a) of the Enforcement Principle set out in Annex I to this Decision has determined that the organisation is violating the Principles implemented in accordance with the FAQs; or (b) there is a substantial likelihood that the Principles are being violated; there is a reasonable basis for believing that the enforcement mechanism concerned is not taking or will not take adequate and timely steps to settle the case at issue; the continuing transfer would create an imminent risk of grave harm to data subjects; and the competent authorities in the Member State have made reasonable efforts under the circumstances to provide the organisation with notice and an opportunity to respond.
Member States shall inform the Commission without delay when measures are adopted on the basis of paragraph 1. 3.
If the information collected under paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 provides evidence that any body responsible for ensuring compliance with the Principles implemented in accordance with the FAQs in the United States is not effectively fulfilling its role, the Commission shall inform the US Department of Commerce and, if necessary, present draft measures in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 31 of Directive 95/46/EC with a view to reversing or suspending the present Decision or limiting its scope.
The Commission shall in any case evaluate the implementation of the present Decision on the basis of available information three years after its notification to the Member States and report any pertinent findings to the Committee established under Article 31 of Directive 95/46/EC, including any evidence that could affect the evaluation that the provisions set out in Article 1 of this Decision provide adequate protection within the meaning of Article 25 of Directive 95/46/EC and any evidence that the present Decision is being implemented in a discriminatory way. 2.
The Commission shall, if necessary, present draft measures in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 31 of Directive 95/46/EC.
Article 6 This Decision is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 26 July 2000.
For the Commission Frederik Bolkestein Member of the Commission (1) OJ L 281, 23.11.1995, p. 31. (2) The web address of the Working Party is: http://www.europa.eu.int/comm/internal_market/en/media/dataprot/wpdocs/index.htm (3) WP 12: Transfers of personal data to third countries: applying Articles 25 and 26 of the EU data protection Directive, adopted by the Working Party on 24 July 1998. (4) WP 15: Opinion 1/99 concerning the level of data protection in the United States and the ongoing discussions between the European Commission and the United States.
WP 19: Opinion 2/99 on the Adequacy of the %quot%International Safe Harbor Principles%quot% issued by the US Department of Commerce on 19 April 1999.
WP 21: Opinion 4/99 on the Frequently Asked Questions to be issued by the US Department of Commerce in relation to the proposed %quot%Safe Harbor Principles%quot% on the adequacy of the %quot%International Safe Harbor Principles%quot%.
WP 27: Opinion 7/99 on the Level of Data Protection provided by the %quot%Safe Harbor%quot% Principles as published together with the Frequently asked Questions (FAQs) and other related documents on 15 and 16 November 1999 by the US Department of Commerce.
WP 31: Opinion 3/200 on the EU/US dialogue concerning the %quot%Safe Harbor%quot% arrangement.
WP 32: Opinion 4/2000 on the level of protection provided by the %quot%Safe Harbor Principles%quot%.
Where in complying with the Principles, an organization relies in whole or in part on self-regulation, its failure to comply with such self-regulation must also be actionable under Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act prohibiting unfair and deceptive acts or another law or regulation prohibiting such acts. (See the annex for the list of U.S.
Organizations wishing to benefit from the safe harbor for receiving information in manually processed filing systems from the EU must apply the Principles to any such information transferred after they enter the safe harbor.
In any case, an organization should treat as sensitive any information received from a third party where the third party identifies and treats it as sensitive.
ANNEX II FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS (FAQs) FAQ 1 - Sensitive Data Q: Must an organization always provide explicit (opt in) choice with respect to sensitive data?
FAQ 2 - Journalistic Exceptions Q: Given U.S.
A: Investment bankers or auditors may process information without knowledge of the individual only to the extent and for the period necessary to meet statutory or public interest requirements and in other circumstances in which the application of these Principles would prejudice the legitimate interests of the organization.
In the latter case, the panel will inform the Department of Commerce (or its designee) so that the list of safe harbor participants can be duly amended.
The annual fee will not exceed USD 500 and will be less for smaller companies.
FAQ 6 - Self-Certification Q: How does an organization self-certify that it adheres to the Safe Harbor Principles?
Misrepresentations to the Department of Commerce (or its designee) may be actionable under the False Statements Act (18 U.S.C. § 1001).
A: To meet the verification requirements of the Enforcement Principle, an organization may verify such attestations and assertions either through self-assessment or outside compliance reviews.
For example, if an access request is vague or broad in scope, an organization may engage the individual in a dialogue so as to better understand the motivation for the request and to locate responsive information.
If an organization determines that access should be denied in any particular instance, it should provide the individual requesting access with an explanation of why it has made that determination and a contact point for any further inquiries. 2.
A: Access needs to be provided only to the extent that an organization stores the information.
Q: How can an organization protect itself against repetitious or vexatious requests for access? 9.
Q: How can an organization protect itself against fraudulent requests for access? 10.
FAQ 9 - Human Resources 1.
Q: How do the Notice and Choice Principles apply to such information? 2.
Q: How does the Access Principle apply? 3.
FAQ No 11 - Dispute Resolution and Enforcement Q: How should the dispute resolution requirements of the Enforcement Principle be implemented, and how will an organization's persistent failure to comply with the Principles be handled?
A: The Enforcement Principle sets out the requirements for safe harbor enforcement.
How to meet the requirements of point (b) of the Principle is set out in the FAQ on verification (FAQ 7).
This FAQ 11 addresses points (a) and (c), both of which require independent recourse mechanisms.
Please note that the Enforcement Principle's requirements are additional to the requirements set forth in paragraph 3 of the introduction to the Principles that self-regulatory efforts must be enforceable under Article 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act or similar statute.
Sanctions should include both publicity for findings of non-compliance and the requirement to delete data in certain circumstances(3).
The FTC has committed to reviewing on a priority basis referrals received from privacy self-regulatory organizations, such as BBBOnline and TRUSTe, and EU Member States alleging non-compliance with the Safe Harbor Principles to determine whether Section 5 of the FTC Act prohibiting unfair or deceptive acts or practices in commerce has been violated.
Persistent failure to comply arises where an organization that has self-certified to the Department of Commerce (or its designee) refuses to comply with a final determination by any self-regulatory or government body or where such a body determines that an organization frequently fails to comply with the Principles to the point where its claim to comply is no longer credible.
In these cases, the organization must promptly notify the Department of Commerce (or its designee) of such facts.
FAQ 12 - Choice - Timing of Opt Out Q: Does the Choice Principle permit an individual to exercise choice only at the beginning of a relationship or at any time?
In the United States, individuals may be able to exercise this option through the use of a central %quot%opt out%quot% program such as the Direct Marketing Association's Mail Preference Service.
FAQ 14 - Pharmaceutical and Medical Products 1.
Q: Personal data developed in specific medical or pharmaceutical research studies often play a valuable role in future scientific research.
Q: What happens to an individual's data if a participant decides voluntarily or at the request of the sponsor to withdraw from the clinical trial? 3.
Does a transfer from the EU to the United States of data coded in this way constitute a transfer of personal data that is subject to the Safe Harbor Principles? 7.
FAQ 15 - Public Record and Publicly Available Information Q: Is it necessary to apply the Notice, Choice and Onward Transfer Principles to public record information or publicly available information?
ANNEX III Safe Harbor Enforcement Overview Federal and State %quot%Unfair and Deceptive Practices%quot% Authority and Privacy This memorandum outlines the authority of the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) under Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act (15 U.S.C. §§ 41-58, as amended) to take action against those who fail to protect the privacy of personal information in accordance with their representations and/or commitments to do so.
FTC Authority over Unfair or Deceptive Practices Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act declares %quot%unfair or deceptive acts or practices in or affecting commerce%quot% to be illegal. 15 U.S.C. § 45(a)(1).
In cases where there is a widespread pattern of unfair or deceptive acts or practices, or where it has already issued cease and desist orders on the matter, the FTC may promulgate an administrative rule prescribing the acts or practices involved. 15 U.S.C. § 57a.
Likewise, anyone who knowingly violates an FTC rule is liable for USD 11000 for each violation. 15 U.S.C. § 45(m).
For example, in 1998, the FTC filed a complaint against GeoCities for disclosing information it had collected on its website to third parties for purposes of solicitation, and without prior permission, despite its representations to the contrary(4).
These financial institutions are instead subject to regulations issued by the Federal Reserve Board, the Office of Thrift Supervision(8), and the National Credit Union Administration Board, respectively.
subtitle IV (Interstate Transportation) covers rail carriers, motor carriers, water carriers, brokers, freight forwarders, and pipeline carriers. 49 U.S.C. § 10101 et seq.
These various common carriers are subject to regulation by the Surface Transportation Board, an independent agency within the Department of Transportation. 49 U.S.C. §§ 10501, 13501, and 15301.
The Cable Act restricts the collection of personal information by cable operators and requires the cable operator to notify the subscriber of the nature of the information collected and how that information will be used.
The Communications Act empowers the FCC to enforce these two privacy provisions, either at its own initiation or in response to an outside complaint(14). 47 U.S.C. §§ 205, 403; id. § 208.
If the FCC determines that a telecommunications carrier (including a cable operator) has violated the privacy provisions of section 222 or section 551, there are three basic actions it may take.
Private persons who believe a telecommunications carrier or cable operator has violated the relevant provisions of the Communications Act or the Cable Act may either file a complaint with the FCC or take their claims to a federal district court. 47 U.S.C. § 207.
A complainant who prevails in a federal court action against a telecommunications carrier for failure to protect customer proprietary information under the broader section 222 of the Communications Act may be awarded actual damages and attorneys' fees. 47 U.S.C. § 206.
Air carriers U.S.
Air carriers are subject to the authority of the Department of Transportation.
In this regard, the Secretary of Transportation is authorized to take action %quot%preventing unfair, deceptive, predatory, or anticompetitive practices in air transportation.%quot% 49 U.S.C. § 40101(a)(9).
It is not clear whether the Secretary of Agriculture will interpret the failure by a packer or stockyard operator to protect personal privacy in accordance with stated policy to be a %quot%deceptive%quot% practice under the Packers and Stockyards Act.
Rev. 427 (1984).
Statutes at the federal level that regulate the commercial collection and use of personal information include the Cable Communications Policy Act (47 U.S.C. § 551), the Driver's Privacy Protection Act (18 U.S.C. § 2721), the Electronic Communications Privacy Act (18 U.S.C. § 2701 et seq.), the Electronic Funds Transfer Act (15 U.S.C. §§ 1693, 1693m), the Fair Credit Reporting Act (15 U.S.C. § 1681 et seq.), the Right to Financial Privacy Act (12 U.S.C. § 3401 et seq.), the Telephone Consumer Protection Act (47 U.S.C. § 227), and the Video Privacy Protection Act (18 U.S.C. § 2710), among others.
See, e.g., Mass.
Laws ch. 167B, § 16 (prohibiting financial institutions from disclosing a customer's financial records to a third party without either the customer's consent or legal process) N.Y.
Health Law § 17 (limiting use and disclosure of medical or mental health records and giving patients the right of access thereto). (2) In such an action, the United States district court can also order injunctive and equitable relief appropriate to enforcing the FTC order. 15 U.S.C. § 45(1). (3) %quot%Deceptive practice%quot% is defined as a representation, omission or practice that is likely to mislead reasonable consumers in a material fashion. (4) See www.ftc.gov/opa/1998/9808/geocitie.htm. (5) See staff letter to Center for Media Education, www.ftc.gov/os/1997/9707/cenmed.htm.
In addition, the Children's Online Privacy Protection Act of 1998 confers on the FTC specific legal authority to regulate the collection of personal information from children by website and online service operators.
L. 106-102, codified at 15 U.S.C. § 6801 et seq.) into law.
Therefore, brokers, dealers and others in the securities industry are subject to the concurrent jurisdiction of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the FTC with respect to unfair or deceptive acts and practices. (8) The exception in Section 5 originally referred to the Federal Home Loan Bank Board which was abolished in August 1989 by the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989.
Travelers Health Association, 362 U.S. 293 (1960).
Tennessee State Bank, 890 S.W.2d 32 (1994) (bank liable to borrowers for USD 14825 in compensatory damages for disclosing borrowers' personal information and business plans to bank president who had a conflicting interest).
NCAA, 865 P.2d 633 (Ca. 1994); see also S.
Ginder, Lost and Found in Cyberspace: Informational Privacy in the age of the Internet, 34 S.D.L.
Lastly, an action for %quot%false light publicity%quot% is appropriate when the defendant knowingly or recklessly places another before the public in a false light that would be highly offensive to a reasonable person(10).
Finally, the invasion of privacy that results from the publication or disclosure of sensitive personal information could give rise to a cause of action for %quot%publication of private facts.%quot% (See examples of illustrative cases below).
Ex Parte AmSouth Bancorporation et al., 717 So. 2d 357, for example, involved a class action that alleged the defendant %quot%exploited the trust depositors placed in the Bank, by sharing confidential information regarding Bank depositors and their accounts%quot% to enable a bank affiliate to sell mutual funds and other investments.
In Vassiliades v.
Garfinckel's, Brooks Bros., 492 A.2d 580 (D.C.App. 1985), an appellate court reversed a lower court judgement to hold that the use of photographs of the plaintiff %quot%before%quot% and %quot%after%quot% plastic surgery in a presentation in a department store constituted an invasion of privacy through the publication of private facts.
Flanagan, 487 So.2d 207 (Miss. 1986), the defendant insurance company used an accident in which the plaintiff's wife was seriously injured in an advertising campaign.
Continental Telephone Co., 154 Vt. 568 (1990) (defendant derived commercial benefit in using employee's name and photograph in newspaper advertisement).
The court upheld a jury award of USD 2 in actual damages and USD 500000 in punitive damages.
They also claim an invasion of privacy under common law.
For example: Electronic Communications Privacy Act of 1986.
Violations can result in civil liability of not less than USD 100 for each day of violation.
Telecommunications Act of 1996.
Service subscribers can either submit a complaint to the Federal Communications Commission or file suit in federal district court to recover damages and attorneys' fees.
Consumer Credit Reporting Reform Act of 1996.
The 1996 Act amended the Fair Credit Reporting act of 1970 (FCRA) to require improved notice and right of access for credit reporting subjects.
For example, a statute which authorizes doctors to provide their patients' medical records to health officials without the patients' prior consent might permit an exception from the notice and choice principles.
Telecommunications Act of 1996 In most cases, the authorized uses are either consistent with the requirements of the Directive and the principles, or would be permitted by one of the other allowed exceptions.
For example, section 702 of the Telecommunications Act (codified at 47 U.S.C. § 222) imposes a duty on telecommunications carriers to maintain the confidentiality of personal information that they obtain in the course of providing their services to their customers.
Department of Health and Human Services Proposed Rules The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has proposed rules regarding standards for the privacy of individually identifiable health information.
Reg. 59.918 (November 2, 1999) (to be codified at 45 C.F.R.
The rules would implement the privacy requirements of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, Pub.
This leaves only the use of personal information by health care facilities to produce patient directories.
Section 604 of the FCRA, for example, explicitly authorizes consumer reporting agencies to issue consumer reports in various enumerated situations.
Also, FCRA prohibits credit reporting agencies from providing medical information for employment purposes without the consent of the consumer.
Similarly, section 608 allows credit reporting agencies to provide some personal information to government agencies.
Conclusion A distinct pattern emerges even from our limited review of these statutes: - The %quot%explicit authorization%quot% in the law generally permits the use or disclosure of personal information without the individual's prior consent; thus, the exception would be limited to the notice and choice principles. - In most cases, the exceptions authorized by the law are narrowly drawn to apply in specific situations for specific purposes.
In all cases, the law otherwise prohibits the unauthorized use or disclosure of personal information that does not fall within these limits. - In most cases, reflecting their legislative character, the authorized use or disclosure serves a public interest. - In almost all cases, the authorized uses are either fully consistent with the safe harbor principles or fall into one of the other allowed exceptions.
Act § 11.06(3) (1979) (%quot%the surviving corporation has all liabilities of each corporation party to the merger%quot%).
Co., 50 S.E. 68 (Ga. 1905). (4) Id., at 69. (5) An electronic search of the Westlaw database found 2703 reported cases of civil actions in state courts that pertained %quot%privacy%quot% since 1995.
We have previously provided the results of this search to the Commission. (6) See, e.g., Alaska Constitution, Art. 1 Sec. 22; Arizona, Art. 2, Sec. 8; California, Art. 1, Sec. 1; Florida, Art. 1, Sec. 23; Hawaii, Art. 1, Sec. 5; Illinois, Art. 1, Sec. 6; Louisiana, Art. 1, Sec. 5; Montana, Art. 2, Sec. 10; New York, Art. 1, Sec. 12; Pennsylvania, Art. 1, Sec. 1; South Carolina, Art. 1, Sec. 10; and Washington, Art. 1 Sec. 7. (7) Id., at Chapter 28, Section 62B. (8) Id., at Chapter 28, Section 652C. (9) Id., at Chapter 28, Section 652D. (10) Id., at Chapter 28, Section 652E. (11) We had previously provided the Commission with information on small-claims actions. (12) A recent electronic search of the Westlaw database yielded 994 reported states cases that related to damages and invasion of privacy. (13) As a point of clarification, the relevant legal authority will not have to specifically reference the safe harbor principles. (14) Similarly, the doctor in this example could not rely on the statutory authority to override the individual's exercise of the opt-out from direct marketing provided by FAQ 12.
The scope of any exception for %quot%explicit authorizations%quot% is necessarily limited to the scope of the authorization under relevant law. (15) The scope of this exception is very limited.
A deceptive practice is defined as a representation, omission or practice that is likely to mislead reasonable consumers in a material fashion.
For example, if a website falsely claims to comply with a stated privacy policy or a set of self-regulatory guidelines, Section 5 of the FTC Act provides a legal basis for challenging such a misrepresentation as deceptive.
In addition, the Commission has taken the position it may challenge particularly egregious privacy practices as unfair under Section 5 if such practices involve children, or the use of highly sensitive information, such as financial records(4) and medical records.
The National Advertising Division (NAD) of NARB resolves complaints, through an adjudicative process, concerning national advertising.
GeoCities: The FTC's First Online Privacy Case The Federal Trade Commission's first Internet privacy case, GeoCities, was based on the Commission's authority under Section 5(5).
The complaint also charged that GeoCities engaged in deceptive practices relating to its collection of information from children.
To ensure parental control, the settlement also requires GeoCities to obtain parental consent before collecting personal identifying information from children 12 and under.
Our complaint alleged that ReverseAuction violated Section 5 of the FTC Act in obtaining the personally identifiable information, which included eBay users' e-mail addresses and personalized user identification names (%quot%user IDs%quot%), and in sending out the deceptive e-mail messages.
The settlement obtained by the FTC bars ReverseAuction from committing these violations in the future.
The notice also provides these consumers with the opportunity to cancel registration with ReverseAuction and have their personal identifying information deleted from ReverseAuctions's database.
Indeed, this case directly challenged conduct that undermined a Privacy Policy and User Agreement protecting consumers' privacy, and that could erode consumer confidence in privacy measures undertaken by online companies.
We want to assure you that we have carefully reviewed the FTC authorizing legislation, related documents, and relevant case-law and have concluded that the FTC has the same jurisdiction in the employment-related data situation as it would generally under Section 5 of the FTC Act(11).
We also would like to dispel any view that the FTC's ability to take privacy-related enforcement action is limited to situations where a company has deceived individual consumers.
The Fair Credit Reporting Act would also apply to Internet data collection and sales that meet the statutory definitions of %quot%consumer report%quot% and %quot%consumer reporting agency.%quot% (2) 15 U.S.C. § 45(n). (3) See GeoCities, Docket No C-3849 (Final Order Feb. 12, 1999) (available at www.ftc.gov/os/1999/9902/9823015d%26o.htm); Liberty Financial Cos., Docket No C-3891 (Final Order Aug. 12, 1999) (available at www.ftc.gov/opa/1999/9905/younginvestor.htm).
Touch Tone, Inc., Civil Action No 99-WM-783 (D.Co.) (filed April 21, 1999) at www.ftc.gov/opa/1999/9904/touchtone.htm.
Staff Opinion Letter, July 17, 1997, issued in response to a petition filed by the Center for Media Education, at www.ftc.gov/os/1997/9707/cenmed.htm. (5) GeoCities, Docket No C-3849 (Final Order Feb. 12, 1999) (available at www.ftc.gov/os/1999/9902/9823015d%26o.htm). (6) The Commission subsequently settled another matter involving the collection of personal information from children online.
Liberty Financial Companies, Inc., operated the Young Investor website which was directed to children and teens, and focused on issues relating to money and investing.
In the Federal Trade Commission's report to Congress on online privacy, %quot%Privacy Online: A Report to Congress,%quot% June 1998 (the report can be found at www.ftc.gov/reports/privacy3/toc.htm), the FTC recommended legislation to require that commercial websites obtain parental consent before collecting personally identifiable information from children under 13 years old.
The Commission will report again to Congress in the coming weeks on the progress of self-regulation. (9) See http://www.ftc.gov/ftc/complaint.htm for the Federal Trade Commission's online complaint form. (10) For example, in a recent case involving an Internet pyramid scheme, the Commission obtained refunds for 15622 consumers totaling approximately USD 5,5 million.
See www.ftc.gov/opa/9807/fortunar.htm; www.ftc.gov/opa/9807/ftcrefund01.htm. (11) Except as specifically excluded by the FTC's authorizing statute, the FTC's jurisdiction under the FTC Act over practices %quot%in or affecting commerce%quot% is coextensive with the constitutional power of Congress under the Commerce Clause, United States v.
Section 41712 is patterned after Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act (15 U.S.C. 45).
My office investigates and prosecutes cases under 49 U.S.C. 41712. (See, e.g., DOT Orders 99-11-5, November 9, 1999; 99-8-23, August 26, 1999; 99-6-1, June 1, 1999; 98-6-24, June 22, 1998; 98-6-21, June 19, 1998; 98-5-31, May 22, 1998; and 97-12-23, December 18, 1997.) We institute such cases based on our own investigations, as well as on formal and informal complaints we receive from individuals, travel agents, airlines, and U.S.
However, once a carrier formally and publicly commits to the %quot%safe harbor%quot% principle of providing privacy to the consumer information it obtains, then the Department would be empowered to use the statutory powers of section 41712 to ensure compliance with those principles.
Repeated violations of section 41712 by any U.S.
The Federal Trade Commission acts on the basis of its authority under Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act.
The US Department of Transportation acts on the basis of its authority under Title 49 United States Code Section 41712.
