The following natural or legal persons, including authorities established under public law, may be proprietors of Community trade marks: (a) nationals of the Member States; or (b) nationals of other States which are parties to the Paris Convention for the protection of industrial property, hereinafter referred to as 'the Paris Convention`; or (c) nationals of States which are not parties to the Paris Convention who are domiciled or have their seat or who have real and effective industrial or commercial establishments within the territory of the Community or of a State which is party to the Paris Convention; or (d) nationals, other than those referred to under subparagraph (c), of any State which is not party to the Paris Convention and which, according to published findings, accords to nationals of all the Member States the same protection for trade marks as it accords to its own nationals and, if nationals of the Member States are required to prove registration in the country of origin, recognizes the registration of Community trade marks as such proof. 2.
With respect to the application of paragraph 1, stateless persons as defined by Article 1 of the Convention relating to the Status of Stateless Persons signed at New York on 28 September 1954, and refugees as defined by Article 1 of the Convention relating to the Status of Refugees signed at Geneva on 28 July 1951 and modified by the Protocol relating to the Status of Refugees signed at New York on 31 January 1967, shall be regarded as nationals of the country in which they have their habitual residence. 3.
Persons who are nationals of a State covered by paragraph 1 (d) must prove that the trade mark for which an application for a Community trade mark has been submitted is registered in the State of origin, unless, according to published findings, the trade marks of nationals of the Member States are registered in the State of origin in question without proof of prior registration as a Community trade mark or as a national trade mark in a Member State.
Article 7 Absolute grounds for refusal 1.
The following shall not be registered: (a) signs which do not conform to the requirements of Article 4; (b) trade marks which are devoid of any distinctive character; (c) trade marks which consist exclusively of signs or indications which may serve, in trade, to designate the kind, quality, quantity, intended purpose, value, geographical origin or the time of production of the goods or of rendering of the service, or other characteristics of the goods or service; (d) trade marks which consist exclusively of signs or indications which have become customary in the current language or in the bona fide and established practices of the trade; (e) signs which consist exclusively of: (i) the shape which results from the nature of the goods themselves; or (ii) the shape of goods which is necessary to obtain a technical result; or (iii) the shape which gives substantial value to the goods; (f) trade marks which are contrary to public policy or to accepted principles of morality; (g) trade marks which are of such a nature as to deceive the public, for instance as to the nature, quality or geographical origin of the goods or service; (h) trade marks which have not been authorized by the competent authorities and are to be refused pursuant to Article 6ter of the Paris Convention; (i) trade marks which include badges, emblems or escutcheons other than those covered by Article 6ter of the Paris Convention and which are of particular public interest, unless the consent of the appropriate authorities to their registration has been given. 2.
Paragraph 1 shall apply notwithstanding that the grounds of non-registrability obtain in only part of the Community. 3.
Article 8 Relative grounds for refusal 1.
Upon opposition by the proprietor of an earlier trade mark, the trade mark applied for shall not be registered: (a) if it is identical with the earlier trade mark and the goods or services for which registration is applied for are identical with the goods or services for which the earlier trade mark is protected; (b) if because of its identity with or similarity to the earlier trade mark and the identity or similarity of the goods or services covered by the trade marks there exists a likelihood of confusion on the part of the public in the territory in which the earlier trade mark is protected; the likelihood of confusion includes the likelihood of association with the earlier trade mark. 2.
for the purposes of paragraph 1, 'Earlier trade marks` means: (a) trade marks of the following kinds with a date of application for registration which is earlier than the date of application for registration of the Community trade mark, taking account, where appropriate, of the priorities claimed in respect of those trade marks: (i) Community trade marks; (ii) trade marks registered in a Member State, or, in the case of Belgium, the Netherlands or Luxembourg, at the Benelux Trade Mark Office; (iii) trade marks registered under international arrangements which have effect in a Member State; (b) applications for the trade marks referred to in subparagraph (a), subject to their registration; (c) trade marks which, on the date of application for registration of the Community trade mark, or, where appropriate, of the priority claimed in respect of the application for registration of the Community trade mark, are well known in a Member State, in the sense in which the words 'well known` are used in Article 6 bis of the Paris Convention. 3.
Upon opposition by the proprietor of a non-registered trade mark or of another sign used in the course of trade of more than mere local significance, the trade mark applied for shall not be registered where and to the extent that, pursuant to the law of the Member State governing that sign, (a) rights to that sign were acquired prior to the date of application for registration of the Community trade mark, or the date of the priority claimed for the application for registration of the Community trade mark; (b) that sign confers on its proprietor the right to prohibit the use of a subsequent trade mark. 5.
SECTION 2 EFFECTS OF COMMUNITY TRADE MARKS Article 9 Rights conferred by a Community trade mark 1.
The proprietor shall be entitled to prevent all third parties not having his consent from using in the course of trade: (a) any sign which is identical with the Community trade mark in relation to goods or services which are identical with those for which the Community trade mark is registered; (b) any sign where, because of its identity with or similarity to the Community trade mark and the identity or similarity of the goods or services covered by the Community trade mark and the sign, there exists a likelihood of confusion on the part of the public; the likelihood of confusion includes the likelihood of association between the sign and the trade mark; (c) any sign which is identical with or similar to the Community trade mark in relation to goods or services which are not similar to those for which the Community trade mark is registered, where the latter has a reputation in the Community and where use of that sign without due cause takes unfair advantage of, or is detrimental to, the distinctive character or the repute of the Community trade mark. 2.
Article 10 Reproduction of Community trade marks in dictionaries If the reproduction of a Community trade mark in a dictionary, encyclopaedia or similar reference work gives the impression that it constitutes the generic name of the goods or services for which the trade mark is registered, the publisher of the work shall, at the request of the proprietor of the Community trade mark, ensure that the reproduction of the trade mark at the latest in the next edition of the publication is accompanied by an indication that it is a registered trade mark.
Article 11 Prohibition on the use of a Community trade mark registered in the name of an agent or representative Where a Community trade mark is registered in the name of the agent or representative of a person who is the proprietor of that trade mark, without the proprietor's authorization, the latter shall be entitled to oppose the use of his mark by his agent or representative if he has not authorized such use, unless the agent or representative justifies his action.
Article 12 Limitation of the effects of a Community trade mark A Community trade mark shall not entitle the proprietor to prohibit a third party from using in the course of trade: (a) his own name or address; (b) indications concerning the kind, quality, quantity, intended purpose, value, geographical origin, the time of production of the goods or of rendering of the service, or other characteristics of the goods or service; (c) the trade mark where it is necessary to indicate the intended purpose of a product or service, in particular as accessories or spare parts, provided he uses them in accordance with honest practices in industrial or commercial matters.
Article 13 Exhaustion of the rights conferred by a Community trade mark 1.
Article 14 Complementary application of national law relating to infringement 1.
The rules of procedure to be applied shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of Title X.
SECTION 3 USE OF COMMUNITY TRADE MARKS Article 15 Use of Community trade marks 1.
If, within a period of five years following registration, the proprietor has not put the Community trade mark to genuine use in the Community in connection with the goods or services in respect of which it is registered, or if such use has been suspended during an uninterrupted period of five years, the Community trade mark shall be subject to the sanctions provided for in this Regulation, unless there are proper reasons for non-use. 2.
SECTION 4 COMMUNITY TRADE MARKS AS OBJECTS OF PROPERTY Article 16 Dealing with Community trade marks as national trade marks 1.
In cases which are not provided for by paragraph 1, the Member State referred to in that paragraph shall be the Member State in which the seat of the Office is situated. 3.
Article 17 Transfer 1.
A Community trade mark may be transferred, separately from any transfer of the undertaking, in respect of some or all of the goods or services for which it is registered. 2.
This provision shall apply to the contractual obligation to transfer the undertaking. 3.
On request of one of the parties a transfer shall be entered in the Register and published. 6.
Article 18 Transfer of a trade mark registered in the name of an agent Where a Community trade mark is registered in the name of the agent or representative of a person who is the proprietor of that trade mark, without the proprietor's authorization, the latter shall be entitled to demand the assignment in his favour of the said registration, unless such agent or representative justifies his action.
Article 19 Rights in rem 1.
Article 20 Levy of execution 1.
On request of one the parties, levy of execution shall be entered in the Register and published.
Article 21 Bankruptcy or like proceedings 1.
Until such time as common rules for the Member States in this field enter into force, the only Member State in which a Community trade mark may be involved in bankruptcy or like proceedings shall be that in which such proceedings are first brought within the meaning of national law or of conventions applicable in this field. 2.
Article 22 Licensing 1.
A Community trade mark may be licensed for some or all of the goods or services for which it is registered and for the whole or part of the Community.
Article 23 Effects vis-à-vis third parties 1.
Legal acts referred to in Article 17, 19 and 22 concerning a Community trade mark shall only have effects vis-à-vis third parties in all the Member States after entry in the Register.
Nevertheless, such an act, before it is so entered, shall have effect vis-à-vis third parties who have acquired rights in the trade mark after the date of that act but who knew of the act at the date on which the rights were acquired. 2.
The effects vis-à-vis third parties of the legal acts referred to in Article 20 shall be governed by the law of the Member State determined in accordance with Article 16. 4.
Until such time as common rules for the Member States in the field of bankruptcy enter into force, the effects vis-à-vis third parties of bankruptcy or like proceedings shall be governed by the law of the Member State in which such proceedings are first brought within the meaning of national law or of conventions applicable in this field.
Article 24 The application for a Community trade mark as an object of property Articles 16 to 23 shall apply to applications for Community trade marks.
TITLE III APPLICATION FOR COMMUNITY TRADE MARKS SECTION 1 FILING OF APPLICATIONS AND THE CONDITIONS WHICH GOVERN THEM Article 25 Filing of applications 1.
An application filed in this way shall have the same effect as if it had been filed on the same date at the Office. 2.
Article 26 Conditions with which applications must comply 1.
Article 28 Classification Goods and services in respect of which Community trade marks are applied for shall be classified in conformity with the system of classification specified in the Implementing Regulation.
SECTION 2 PRIORITY Article 29 Right of priority 1.
A person who has duly filed an application for a trade mark in or for any State party to the Paris Convention, or his successors in title, shall enjoy, for the purpose of filing a Community trade mark application for the same trade mark in respect of goods or services which are identical with or contained within those for which the application has been filed, a right of priority during a period of six months from the date of filing of the first application. 2.
If the first filing has been made in a State which is not a party to the Paris Convention, paragraphs 1 to 4 shall apply only in so far as that State, according to published findings, grants, on the basis of a first filing made at the Office and subject to conditions equivalent to those laid down in this Regulation, a right of priority having equivalent effect.
Article 31 Effect of priority right The right of priority shall have the effect that the date of priority shall count as the date of filing of the Community trade mark application for the purposes of establishing which rights take precedence.
Article 32 Equivalence of Community filing with national filing A Community trade mark application which has been accorded a date of filing shall, in the Member States, be equivalent to a regular national filing, where appropriate with the priority claimed for the Community trade mark application.
SECTION 3 EXHIBITION PRIORITY Article 33 Exhibition priority 1.
If an applicant for a Community trade mark has displayed goods or services under the mark applied for, at an official or officially recognized international exhibition falling within the terms of the Convention on International Exhibitions signed at Paris on 22 November 1928 and last revised on 30 November 1972, he may, if he files the application within a period of six months from the date of the first display of the goods or services under the mark applied for, claim a right of priority from that date within the meaning of Article 31. 2.
An exhibition priority granted in a Member State or in a third country does not extend the period of priority laid down in Article 29.
SECTION 4 CLAIMING THE SENIORITY OF A NATIONAL TRADE MARK Article 34 Claiming the seniority of a national trade mark 1.
The proprietor of an earlier trade mark registered in a Member State, including a trade mark registered in the Benelux countries, or registered under international arrangements having effect in a Member State, who applies for an identical trade mark for registration as a Community trade mark for goods or services which are identical with or contained within those for which the earlier trade mark has been registered, may claim for the Community trade mark the seniority of the earlier trade mark in respect of the Member State in or for which it is registered. 2.
Article 35 Claiming seniority after registration of the Community trade mark 1.
The proprietor of a Community trade mark who is the proprietor of an earlier identical trade mark registered in a Member State, including a trade mark registered in the Benelux countries, or of a trade mark registered under international arrangements having effect in a Member State, for identical goods or services, may claim the seniority of the earlier trade mark in respect of the Member State in or for which it is registered. 2.
TITLE IV REGISTRATION PROCEDURE SECTION 1 EXAMINATION OF APPLICATIONS Article 36 Examination of the conditions of filing 1.
The Office shall examine whether: (a) the Community trade mark application satisfies the requirements for the accordance of a date of filing in accordance with Article 27; (b) the Community trade mark application complies with the conditions laid down in the Implementing Regulation; (c) where appropriate, the class fees have been paid within the prescribed period. 2.
Article 37 Examination of the conditions relating to the entitlement of the proprietor 1.
Article 38 Examination as to absolute grounds for refusal 1.
Where, under Article 7, a trade mark is ineligible for registration in respect of some or all of the goods or services covered by the Community trade mark application, the application shall be refused as regards those goods or services. 2.
SECTION 2 SEARCH Article 39 Search 1.
Once the Office has accorded a date of filing to a Community trade mark application and has established that the applicant satisfies the conditions referred to in Article 5, it shall draw up a Community search report citing those earlier Community trade marks or Community trade mark applications discovered which may be invoked under Article 8 against the registration of the Community trade mark applied for. 2.
As soon as a Community trade mark application has been accorded a date of filing, the Office shall transmit a copy thereof to the central industrial property office of each Member State which has informed the Office of its decision to operate a search in its own register of trade marks in respect of Community trade mark applications. 3.
Each of the central industrial property offices referred to in paragraph 2 shall communicate to the Office within three months as from the date on which it received the Community trade mark application a search report which shall either cite those earlier national trade marks or trade mark applications discovered which may be invoked under Article 8 against the registration of the Community trade mark applied for, or state that the search has revealed no such rights. 4.
An amount shall be paid by the Office to each central industrial property office for each search report provided by that office in accordance with paragraph 3.
SECTION 3 PUBLICATION OF THE APPLICATION Article 40 Publication of the application 1.
If the conditions which the application for a Community trade mark must satisfy have been fulfilled and if the period referred to in Article 39 (6) has expired, the application shall be published to the extent that it has not been refused pursuant to Articles 37 and 38. 2.
Where, after publication, the application is refused under Articles 37 and 38, the decision that it has been refused shall be published upon becoming final.
SECTION 4 OBSERVATIONS BY THIRD PARTIES AND OPPOSITION Article 41 Observations by third parties 1.
They shall not be parties to the proceedings before the Office. 2.
Within a period of three months following the publication of a Community trade mark application, notice of opposition to registration of the trade mark may be given on the grounds that it may not be registered under Article 8: (a) by the proprietors of earlier trade marks referred to in Article 8 (2) as well as licensees authorized by the proprietors of those trade marks, in respect of Article 8 (1) and (5); (b) by the proprietors of trade marks referred to in Article 8 (3); (c) by the proprietors of earlier marks or signs referred to in Article 8 (4) and by persons authorized under the relevant national law to exercise these rights. 2.
Notice of opposition to registration of the trade mark may also be given, subject to the conditions laid down in paragraph 1, in the event of the publication of an amended application in accordance with the second sentence of Article 44 (2). 3.
Article 43 Examination of opposition 1.
In the examination of the opposition the Office shall invite the parties, as often as necessary, to file observations, within a period set them by the Office, on communications from the other parties or issued by itself. 2.
If the earlier Community trade mark has been used in relation to part only of the goods or services for which it is registered it shall, for the purposes of the examination of the opposition, be deemed to be registered in respect only of that part of the goods or services. 3.
TITLE V DURATION, RENEWAL AND ALTERATION OF COMMUNITY TRADE MARKS Article 46 Duration of registration Community trade marks shall be registered for a period of ten years from the date of filing of the application.
Article 47 Renewal 1.
Article 48 Alteration 1.
TITLE VI SURRENDER, REVOCATION AND INVALIDITY SECTION 1 SURRENDER Article 49 Surrender 1.
A Community trade mark may be surrendered in respect of some or all of the goods or services for which it is registered. 2.
SECTION 2 GROUNDS FOR REVOCATION Article 50 Grounds for revocation 1.
The rights of the proprietor of the Community trade mark shall be declared to be revoked on application to the Office or on the basis of a counterclaim in infringement proceedings: (a) if, within a continuous period of five years, the trade mark has not been put to genuine use in the Community in connection with the goods or services in respect of which it is registered, and there are no proper reasons for non-use; however, no person may claim that the proprietor's rights in a Community trade mark should be revoked where, during the interval between expiry of the five-year period and filing of the application or counterclaim, genuine use of the trade mark has been started or resumed; the commencement or resumption of use within a period of three months preceding the filing of the application or counterclaim which began at the earliest on expiry of the continuous period of five years of non-use shall, however, be disregarded where preparations for the commencement or resumption occur only after the proprietor becomes aware that the application or counterclaim may be filed; (b) if, in consequence of acts or inactivity of the proprietor, the trade mark has become the common name in the trade for a product or service in respect of which it is registered; (c) if, in consequence of the use made of it by the proprietor of the trade mark or with his consent in respect of the goods or services for which it is registered, the trade mark is liable to mislead the public, particularly as to the nature, quality or geographical origin of those goods or services; (d) if the proprietor of the trade mark no longer satisfies the conditions laid down by Article 5. 2.
SECTION 3 GROUNDS FOR INVALIDITY Article 51 Absolute grounds for invalidity 1.
A Community trade mark shall be declared invalid on application to the Office or on the basis of a counterclaim in infringement proceedings, (a) where the Community trade mark has been registered in breach of the provisions of Article 5 or of Article 7; (b) where the applicant was acting in bad faith when he filed the application for the trade mark. 2.
Where the Community trade mark has been registered in breach of the provisions of Article 7 (1) (b), (c) or (d), it may nevertheless not be declared invalid if, in consequence of the use which has been made of it, it has after registration acquired a distinctive character in relation to the goods or services for which it is registered. 3.
Article 52 Relative grounds for invalidity 1.
A Community trade mark shall be declared invalid on application to the Office or on the basis of a counterclaim in infringement proceedings: (a) where there is an earlier trade mark as referred to in Article 8 (2) and the conditions set out in paragraph 1 or paragraph 5 of that Article are fulfilled; (b) where there is a trade mark as referred to in Article 8 (3) and the conditions set out in that paragraph are fulfilled; (c) where there is an earlier right as referred to in Article 8 (4) and the conditions set out in that paragraph are fulfilled. 2.
A Community trade mark shall also be declared invalid on application to the Office or on the basis of a counterclaim in infringement proceedings where the use of such trade mark may be prohibited pursuant to the national law governing the protection of any other earlier right an in particular: (a) a right to a name; (b) a right of personal portrayal; (c) a copyright; (d) an industrial property right. 3.
A Community trade mark may not be declared invalid where the proprietor of a right referred to in paragraphs 1 or 2 consents expressly to the registration of the Community trade mark before submission of the application for a declaration of invalidity or the counterclaim. 4.
Where the proprietor of one of the rights referred to in paragraphs 1 or 2 has previously applied for a declaration that a Community trade mark is invalid or made a counterclaim in infringement proceedings, he may not submit a new application for a declaration of invalidity or lodge a counterclaim on the basis of another of the said rights which he could have invoked in support of his first application or counterclaim. 5.
Where the proprietor of a Community trade mark has acquiesced, for a period of five successive years, in the use of a later Community trade mark in the Community while being aware of such use, he shall no longer be entitled on the basis of the earlier trade mark either to apply for a declaration that the later trade mark is invalid or to oppose the use of the later trade mark in respect of the goods or services for which the later trade mark has been used, unless registration of the later Community trade mark was applied for in bad faith. 2.
Where the proprietor of an earlier national trade mark as referred to in Article 8 (2) or of another earlier sign referred to in Article 8 (4) has acquiesced, for a period of five successive years, in the use of a later Community trade mark in the Member State in which the earlier trade mark or the other earlier sign is protected while being aware of such use, he shall no longer be entitled on the basis of the earlier trade mark or of the other earlier sign either to apply for a declaration that the later trade mark is invalid or to oppose the use of the later trade mark in respect of the goods or services for which the later trade mark has been used, unless registration of the later Community trade mark was applied for in bad faith. 3.
SECTION 4 CONSEQUENCES OF REVOCATION AND INVALIDITY Article 54 Consequences of revocation and invalidity 1.
SECTION 5 PROCEEDINGS IN THE OFFICE IN RELATION TO REVOCATION OR INVALIDITY Article 55 Application for revocation or for a declaration of invalidity 1.
Article 56 Examination of the application 1.
In the examination of the application for revocation of rights or for a declaration of invalidity, the Office shall invite the parties, as often as necessary, to file observations, within a period to be fixed by the Office, on communications from the other parties or issued by itself. 2.
If the proprietor of the Community trade mark so requests, the proprietor of an earlier Community trade mark, being a party to the invalidity proceedings, shall furnish proof that, during the period of five years preceding the date of the application for a declaration of invalidity, the earlier Community trade mark has been put to genuine use in the Community in connection with the goods or services in respect of which it is registered and which he cites as justification for his application, or that there are proper reasons for non-use, provided the earlier Community trade mark has at that date been registered for non-use, provided the earlier Community trade mark has at that date been registered for not less than five years.
If the earlier Community trade mark has been used in relation to part only of the goods or services for which it is registered it shall, for the purpose of the examination of the application for a declaration of invalidity, be deemed to be registered in respect only of that part of the goods or services. 3.
If the examination of the application for revocation of rights or for a declaration of invalidity reveals that the trade mark should not have been registered in respect of some or all of the goods or services for which it is registered, the rights of the proprietor of the Community trade mark shall be revoked or it shall be declared invalid in respect of those goods or services.
TITLE VII APPEALS Article 57 Decisions subject to appeal 1.
Article 58 Persons entitled to appeal and to be parties to appeal proceedings Any party to proceedings adversely affected by a decision may appeal.
Article 59 Time limit and form of appeal Notice of appeal must be filed in writing at the Office within two months after the date of notification of the decision appealed from.
The notice shall be deemed to have been filed only when the fee for appeal has been paid.
Article 60 Interlocutory revision 1.
Article 61 Examination of appeals 1.
The decisions of the Boards of Appeal shall take effect only as from the date of expiration of the period referred to in Article 63 (5) or, if an action has been brought before the Court of Justice within that period, as from the date of rejection of such action.
Article 63 Actions before the Court of Justice 1.
The action shall be brought before the Court of Justice within two months of the date of notification of the decision of the Board of Appeal. 6.
TITLE VIII COMMUNITY COLLECTIVE MARKS Article 64 Community collective marks 1.
The provisions of this Regulation shall apply to Community collective marks, unless Articles 65 to 72 provide otherwise.
Article 65 Regulations governing use of the mark 1.
Article 66 Refusal of the application 1.
In addition to the grounds for refusal of a Community trade mark application provided for in Articles 36 and 38, an application for a Community collective mark shall be refused where the provisions of Article 64 or 65 are not satisfied, or where the regulations governing use are contrary to public policy or to accepted principles of morality. 2.
Article 67 Observations by third parties Apart from the cases mentioned in Article 41, any person, group or body referred to in that Article may submit to the Office written observations based on the particular grounds on which the application for a Community collective mark should be refused under the terms of Article 66.
Article 68 Use of marks Use of a Community collective mark by any person who has authority to use it shall satisfy the requirements of this Regulation, provided that the other conditions which this Regulation imposes with regard to the use of Community trade marks are fulfilled.
Article 69 Amendment of the regulations governing use of the mark 1.
The amendment shall not be mentioned in the Register if the amended regulations do not satisfy the requirements of Article 65 or involve one of the grounds for refusal referred to in Article 66. 3.
Article 70 Persons who are entitled to bring an action for infringement 1.
The provisions of Article 22 (3) and (4) concerning the rights of licensees shall apply to every person who has authority to use a Community collective mark. 2.
Article 71 Grounds for revocation Apart from the grounds for revocation provided for in Article 50, the rights of the proprietor of a Community collective mark shall be revoked on application to the Office or on the basis of a counterclaim in infringement proceedings, if: (a) the proprietor does not take reasonable steps to prevent the mark being used in a manner incompatible with the conditions of use, where these exist, laid down in the regulations governing use, amendments to which have, where appropriate, been mentioned in the Register; (b) the manner in which the mark has been used by the proprietor has caused it to become liable to mislead the public in the manner referred to in Article 66 (2); (c) an amendment to the regulations governing use of the mark has been mentioned in the Register in breach of the provisions of Article 69 (2), unless the proprietor of the mark, by further amending the regulations governing use, complies with the requirements of those provisions.
Article 72 Grounds for invalidity Apart from the grounds for invalidity provided for in Articles 51 and 52, a Community collective mark which is registered in breach of the provisions of Article 66 shall be declared invalid on application to the Office or on the basis of a counterclaim in infringement proceedings, unless the proprietor of the mark, by amending the regulations governing use, complies with the requirements of those provisions.
TITLE IX PROCEDURE SECTION 1 GENERAL PROVISIONS Article 73 Statement of reasons on which decisions are based Decisions of the Office shall state the reasons on which they are based.
Article 75 Oral proceedings 1.
Article 76 Taking of evidence 1.
Article 77 Notification The Office shall, as a matter of course, notify those concerned of decisions and summonses and of any notice or other communication from which a time limit is reckoned, or of which those concerned must be notified under other provisions of this Regulation or of the Implementing Regulation, or of which notification has been ordered by the President of the Office.
The applicant for or proprietor of a Community trade mark or any other party to proceedings before the Office who, in spite of all due care required by the circumstances having been taken, was unable to observe a time limit vis-à-vis the Office shall, upon application, have his rights re-established if the non-observance in question has the direct consequence, by virtue of the provisions of this Regulation, of causing the loss of any right or means of redress. 2.
The application must be filed in writing within two months from the removal of the cause of non-compliance with the time limit.
The application shall only be admissible within the year immediately following the expiry of the unobserved time limit.
It shall not be deemed to be filed until the fee for re-establishment of rights has been paid. 4.
Article 79 Reference to general principles In the absence of procedural provisions in this Regulation, the Implementing Regulation, the fees regulations or the rules of procedure of the Boards of Appeal, the Office shall take into account the principles of procedural law generally recognized in the Member States.
Article 80 Termination of financial obligations 1.
The period laid down in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall be interrupted in the case covered by paragraph 1 by a request for payment of the fee and in the case covered by paragraph 2 by a reasoned claim in writing.
SECTION 2 COSTS Article 81 Costs 1.
Article 82 Enforcement of decisions fixing the amount of costs 1.
SECTION 3 INFORMATION OF THE PUBLIC AND OF THE OFFICIAL AUTHORITIES OF THE MEMBER STATES Article 83 Register of Community trade marks The Office shall keep a register to the known as the Register of Community trade marks, which shall contain those particulars the registration or inclusion of which is provided for by this Regulation or by the Implementing Regulation.
Article 84 Inspection of files 1.
Article 85 Periodical publications The Office shall periodically publish: (a) a Community Trade Marks Bulletin containing entries made in the Register of Community trade marks as well as other particulars the publication of which is prescribed by this Regulation or by the Implementing Regulation; (b) an Official Journal containing notices and information of a general character issued by the President of the Office, as well as any other information relevant to this Regulation or its implementation.
Article 86 Administrative cooperation Unless otherwise provided in this Regulation or in national laws, the Office and the courts or authorities of the Member States shall on request give assistance to each other by communicating information or opening files for inspection.
Article 87 Exchange of publications 1.
SECTION 4 REPRESENTATION Article 88 General principles of representation 1.
Without prejudice to paragraph 3, second sentence, natural or legal persons not having either their domicile or their principal place of business or a real and effective industrial or commercial establishment in the Community must be represented before the Office in accordance with Article 89 (1) in all proceedings established by this Regulation, other than in filing an application for a Community trade mark; the Implementing Regulation may permit other exceptions. 3.
An employee of a legal person to which this paragraph applies may also represent other legal persons which have economic connections with the first legal person, even if those other legal persons have neither their domicile nor their principal place of business nor a real and effective industrial or commercial establishment within the Community.
Article 89 Professional representatives 1.
Any natural person who fulfils the following conditions may be entered on the list of professional representatives: (a) he must be a national of one of the Member States; (b) he must have his place of business or employment in the Community; (c) he must be entitled to represent natural or legal persons in trade mark matters before the central industrial property office of the Member State in which he has his place of business or employment.
In the case of proceedings in respect of the actions and claims referred to in Article 92: (a) Articles 2, 4, 5 (1), (3), (4) and (5) and Article 24 of the Convention on Jurisdiction and Enforcement shall not apply; (b) Articles 17 and 18 of that Convention shall apply subject to the limitations in Article 93 (4) of this Regulation; (c) the provisions of Title II of that Convention which are applicable to persons domiciled in a Member State shall also be applicable to persons who do not have a domicile in any Member State but have an establishment therein.
SECTION 2 DISPUTES CONCERNING THE INFRINGEMENT AND VALIDITY OF COMMUNITY TRADE MARKS Article 91 Community trade mark courts 1.
The Member States shall designate in their territories as limited a number as possible of national courts and tribunals of first and second instance, hereinafter referred to as 'Community trade mark courts`, which shall perform the functions assigned to them by this Regulation. 2.
Each Member State shall communicate to the Commission within three years of the entry into force of this Regulation a list of Community trade mark courts indicating their names and their territorial jurisdiction. 3.
As long as a Member State has not communicated the list as stipulated in paragraph 2, jurisdiction for any proceedings resulting from an action or application covered by Article 92, and for which the courts of that State have jurisdiction under Article 93, shall lie with that court of the State in question which would have jurisdiction ratione loci and ratione materiae in the case of proceedings relating to a national trade mark registered in that State.
Article 92 Jurisdiction over infringement and validity The Community trade mark courts shall have exclusive jurisdiction: (a) for all infringement actions and - if they are permitted under national law - actions in respect of threatened infringement relating to Community trade marks; (b) for actions for declaration of non-infringement, if they are permitted under national law; (c) for all actions brought as a result of acts referred to in Article 9 (3), second sentence; (d) for counterclaims for revocation or for a declaration of invalidity of the Community trade mark pursuant to Article 96.
Article 93 International jurisdiction 1.
Subject to the provisions of this Regulation as well as to any provisions of the Convention on Jurisdiction and Enforcement applicable by virtue of Article 90, proceedings in respect of the actions and claims referred to in Article 92 shall be brought in the courts of the Member State in which the defendant is domiciled or, if he is not domiciled in any of the Member States, in which he has an establishment. 2.
If the defendant is neither domiciled nor has an establishment in any of the Member States, such proceedings shall be brought in the courts of the Member State in which the plaintiff is domiciled or, if he is not domiciled in any of the Member States, in which he has an establishment. 3.
Proceedings in respect of the actions and claims referred to in Article 92, with the exception of actions for a declaration of non-infringement of a Community trade mark, may also be brought in the courts of the Member State in which the act of infringement has been committed or threatened, or in which an act within the meaning of Article 9 (3), second sentence, has been committed.
Article 94 Extent of jurisdiction 1.
A Community trade mark court whose jurisdiction is based on Article 93 (1) to (4) shall have jurisdiction in respect of: - acts of infringement committed or threatened within the territory of any of the Member States, - acts within the meaning of Article 9 (3), second sentence, committed within the territory of any of the Member States. 2.
A Community trade mark court whose jurisdiction is based on Article 93 (5) shall have jurisdiction only in respect of acts committed or threatened within the territory of the Member State in which that court is situated.
Article 95 Presumption of validity - Defence as to the merits 1.
The Community trade mark courts shall treat the Community trade mark as valid unless its validity is put in issue by the defendant with a counterclaim for revocation or for a declaration of invalidity. 2.
Article 96 Counterclaims 1.
A counterclaim for revocation or for a declaration of invalidity may only be based on the grounds for revocation or invalidity mentioned in this Regulation. 2.
A Community trade mark court shall reject a counterclaim for revocation or for a declaration of invalidity if a decision taken by the Office relating to the same subject matter and cause of action and involving the same parties has already become final. 3.
The latter shall record this fact in the Register of Community trade marks. 5.
Where a Community trade mark court has given a judgment which has become final on a counterclaim for revocation or for invalidity of a Community trade mark, a copy of the judgment shall be sent to the Office.
The Office shall mention the judgment in the Register of Community trade marks in accordance with the provisions of the Implementing Regulation. 7.
Article 97 Applicable law 1.
The Community trade mark courts shall apply the provisions of this Regulation. 2.
It shall also take such measures in accordance with its national law as are aimed at ensuring that this prohibition is complied with. 2.
Article 99 Provisional and protective measures 1.
Application may be made to the courts of a Member State, including Community trade mark courts, for such provisional, including protective, measures in respect of a Community trade mark or Community trade mark application as may be available under the law of that State in respect of a national trade mark, even if, under this Regulation, a Community trade mark court of another Member State has jurisdiction as to the substance of the matter. 2.
A Community trade mark court whose jurisdiction is based on Article 93 (1), (2), (3) or (4) shall have jurisdiction to grant provisional and protective measures which, subject to any necessary procedure for recognition and enforcement pursuant to Title III of the Convention on Jurisdiction and Enforcement, are applicable in the territory of any Member State.
Article 100 Specific rules on related actions 1.
A Community trade mark court hearing an action referred to in Article 92, other than an action for a declaration of non-infringement shall, unless there are special grounds for continuing the hearing, of its own motion after hearing the parties or at the request of one of the parties and after hearing the other parties, stay the proceedings where the validity of the Community trade mark is already in issue before another Community trade mark court on account of a counterclaim or where an application for revocation or for a declaration of invalidity has already been filed at the Office. 2.
The Office, when hearing an application for revocation or for a declaration of invalidity shall, unless there are special grounds for continuing the hearing, of its own motion after hearing the parties or at the request of one of the parties and after hearing the other parties, stay the proceedings where the validity of the Community trade mark is already in issue on account of a counterclaim before a Community trade mark court.
The Office shall in this instance continue the proceedings pending before it. 3.
Article 101 Jurisdiction of Community trade mark courts of second instance - Further appeal 1.
An appeal to the Community trade mark courts of second instance shall lie from judgments of the Community trade mark courts of first instance in respect of proceedings arising from the actions and claims referred to in Article 92. 2.
The conditions under which an appeal may be lodged with a Community trade mark court of second instance shall be determined by the national law of the Member State in which that court is located. 3.
SECTION 3 OTHER DISPUTES CONCERNING COMMUNITY TRADE MARKS Article 102 Supplementary provisions on the jurisdiction of national courts other than Community trade mark courts 1.
SECTION 4 TRANSITIONAL PROVISION Article 104 Transitional provision relating to the application of the Convention on Jurisdiction and Enforcement The provisions of the Convention on Jurisdiction and Enforcement which are rendered applicable by the preceding Articles shall have effect in respect of any Member State solely in the text of the Convention which is in force in respect of that State at any given time.
TITLE XI EFFECTS ON THE LAWS OF THE MEMBER STATES SECTION 1 CIVIL ACTIONS ON THE BASIS OF MORE THAN ONE TRADE MARK Article 105 Simultaneous and successive civil actions on the basis of Community trade marks and national trade marks 1.
Where actions for infringement involving the same cause of action and between the same parties are brought in the courts of different Member States, one seized on the basis of a Community trade mark and the other seized on the basis of a national trade mark: (a) the court other than the court first seized shall of its own motion decline jurisdiction in favour of that court where the trade marks concerned are identical and valid for identical goods or services.
SECTION 2 APPLICATION OF NATIONAL LAWS FOR THE PURPOSE OF PROHIBITING THE USE OF COMMUNITY TRADE MARKS Article 106 Prohibition of use of Community trade marks 1.
Claims for infringement of earlier rights within the meaning of Article 8 (2) and (4) may, however, no longer be invoked if the proprietor of the earlier right may no longer apply for a declaration that the Community trade mark is invalid in accordance with Article 53 (2). 2.
Article 107 Prior rights applicable to particular localities 1.
The proprietor of the Community trade mark shall not be entitled to oppose use of the right referred to in paragraph 1 even though that right may no longer be invoked against the Community trade mark.
SECTION 3 CONVERSION INTO A NATIONAL TRADE MARK APPLICATION Article 108 Request for the application of national procedure 1.
Conversion shall not take place: (a) where the rights of the proprietor of the Community trade mark have been revoked on the grounds of non-use, unless in the Member State for which conversion is requested the Community trade mark has been put to use which would be considered to be genuine use under the laws of that Member State; (b) for the purpose of protection in a Member State in which, in accordance with the decision of the Office or of the national court, grounds for refusal of registration or grounds for revocation or invalidity apply to the Community trade mark application or Community trade mark. 3.
The national trade mark application resulting from the conversion of a Community trade mark application or a Community trade mark shall enjoy in respect of the Member State concerned the date of filing or the date of priority of that application or trade mark and, where appropriate, the seniority of a trade mark of that State claimed under Article 34 or 35. 4.
Where the Community trade mark ceases to have effect as a result of a decision of a national court, the request for conversion shall be filed within three months after the date on which that decision acquired the authority of a final decision. 7.
The effect referred to in Article 32 shall lapse if the request is not filed in due time.
Article 109 Submission, publication and transmission of the request for conversion 1.
The request shall not be deemed to be filed until the conversion fee has been paid. 2.
The Office shall check whether conversion may be requested in accordance with Article 108 (1), whether the request has been filed within the period laid down in Article 108 (4), (5) or (6), as the case may be, and whether the conversion fee has been paid.
Article 110 Formal requirements for conversion 1.
A Community trade mark application or a Community trade mark transmitted in accordance with Article 109 shall not be subjected to formal requirements of national law which are different from or additional to those provided for in this Regulation or in the Implementing Regulation. 3.
Any central industrial property office to which the request is transmitted may require that the applicant shall, within not less than two months: (a) pay the national application fee; (b) file a translation in one of the official languages of the State in question of the request and of the documents accompanying it; (c) indicate an address for service in the State in question; (d) supply a representation of the trade mark in the number of copies specified by the State in question.
TITLE XII THE OFFICE SECTION 1 GENERAL PROVISIONS Article 111 Legal status 1.
It shall have legal personality. 2.
In each of the Member States the Office shall enjoy the most extensive legal capacity accorded to legal persons under their laws; it may, in particular, acquire or dispose of movable and immovable property and may be a party to legal proceedings. 3.
Article 112 Staff 1.
Article 113 Privileges and immunities The Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Communities shall apply to the Office.
Article 114 Liability 1.
The contractual liability of the Office shall be governed by the law applicable to the contract in question. 2.
The Court of Justice shall have jurisdiction in disputes relating to compensation for the damage referred to in paragraph 3. 5.
Article 115 Languages 1.
If the application was filed in a language which is not one of the languages of the Office, the Office shall arrange to have the application, as described in Article 26 (1), translated into the language indicated by the applicant. 4.
If the application was made in a language other than the languages of the Office, the Office may send written communications to the applicant in the second language indicated by the applicant in his application. 5.
If the language chosen, in accordance with paragraph 5, for the notice of opposition or the application for revocation or invalidity is the language of the application for a trade mark or the second language indicated when the application was filed, that language shall be the language of the proceedings.
The language into which the application has been translated shall then become the language of the proceedings. 7.
Article 116 Publication; entries in the Register 1.
All entries in the Register of Community trade marks shall be made in all the official languages of the European Community. 3.
Article 117 The translation services required for the functioning of the Office shall be provided by the Translation Centre of the Bodies of the Union once this begins operation.
Article 118 Control of legality 1.
SECTION 2 MANAGEMENT OF THE OFFICE Article 119 Powers of the President 1.
Article 120 Appointment of senior officials 1.
SECTION 3 ADMINISTRATIVE BOARD Article 121 Creation and powers 1.
An Administrative Board is hereby set up, attached to the Office.
The Administrative Board shall draw up the lists of candidates provided for in Article 120. 3.
It shall be consulted before adoption of the guidelines for examination in the Office and in the other cases provided for in this Regulation. 6.
Article 123 Chairmanship 1.
Article 124 Meetings 1.
The Administrative Board shall hold an ordinary meeting once a year; in addition, it shall meet on the initiative of its chairman or at the request of the Commission or of one-third of the Member States. 4.
The Administrative Board shall take its decisions by a simple majority of the representatives of the Member States.
The Administrative Board may invite observers to attend its meetings. 7.
SECTION 4 IMPLEMENTATION OF PROCEDURES Article 125 Competence For taking decisions in connection with the procedures laid down in this Regulation, the following shall be competent: (a) Examiners; (b) Opposition Divisions; (c) an Administration of Trade Marks and Legal Division; (d) Cancellation Divisions; (e) Boards of Appeal.
Article 126 Examiners An examiner shall be responsible for taking decisions on behalf of the Office in relation to an application for registration of a Community trade mark, including the matters referred to in Articles 36, 37, 38 and 66, except in so far as an Opposition Division is responsible.
Article 127 Opposition Divisions 1.
An Opposition Division shall be responsible for taking decisions on an opposition to an application to register a Community trade mark. 2.
Article 128 Administration of Trade Marks and Legal Division 1.
It shall in particular be responsible for decisions in respect of entries in the Register of Community trade marks. 2.
It shall also be responsible for keeping the list of professional representatives which is referred to in Article 89. 3.
Article 129 Cancellation Divisions 1.
Article 130 Boards of Appeal 1.
A Board of Appeal shall consist of three members.
Article 131 Independence of the members of the Boards of Appeal 1.
Article 132 Exclusion and objection 1.
Members of the Boards of Appeal may not take part in appeal proceedings if they participated in the decision under appeal. 2.
SECTION 5 BUDGET AND FINANCIAL CONTROL Article 133 Budget Committee 1.
The Budget Committee shall take its decisions by a simple majority of the representatives of the Member States.
Article 135 Preparation of the budget 1.
The President shall draw up each year an estimate of the Office's revenue and expenditure for the following year and shall send it to the Budget Committee not later than 31 March in each year, together with a list of posts. 2.
The Commission may attach an opinion on the estimate along with an alternative estimate. 3.
Article 136 Financial control Control of commitment and payment of all expenditure and control of the existence and recovery of all revenue of the Office shall be carried out by the Financial Controller appointed by the Budget Committee.
Article 137 Auditing of accounts 1.
Not later than 31 March in each year the President shall transmit to the Commission, the European Parliament, the Budget Committee and the Court of Auditors accounts of the Office's total revenue and expenditure for the preceding financial year.
The Court of Auditors shall examine them in accordance with Article 188c of the Treaty. 2.
Article 138 Financial provisions The Budget Committee shall, after consulting the Court of Auditors of the European Communities and the Commission, adopt internal financial provisions specifying, in particular, the procedure for establishing and implementing the Office's budget.
Article 139 Fees regulations 1.
The fees regulations shall be adopted and amended in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 141.
TITLE XIII FINAL PROVISIONS Article 140 Community implementing provisions 1.
The Implementing Regulation and the rules of procedure of the Boards of Appeal shall be adopted and amended in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 141.
Article 141 Establishment of a committee and procedure for the adoption of implementing regulations 1.
The representative of the Commission shall submit to the Committee a draft of the measures to be taken.
The opinion shall be delivered by the majority laid down in Article 148 (2) of the Treaty in the case of decisions which the Council is required to adopt on a proposal from the Commission.
Article 142 Compatibility with other Community legal provisions This Regulation shall not affect Council Regulation (EEC) No 2081/92 on the protection of geographical indications and designations of origin for agricultural products and foodstuffs (7) of 14 July 1992, and in particular Article 14 thereof.
Article 143 Entry into force 1.
The Member States shall within three years following entry into force of this Regulation take the necessary measures for the purpose of implementing Articles 91 and 110 hereof and shall forthwith inform the Commission of those measures. 3.
Applications for Community trade marks filed within three months before the date referred to in paragraph 3 shall be deemed to have been filed on that date.
Done at Brussels, 20 December 1993.
BOURGEOIS (1) OJ No C 351, 31. 12. 1980, p. 1 and OJ No C 230, 31. 8. 1984, p. 1. (2) OJ No C 307, 14. 11. 1983, p. 46 and OJ No C 280, 28. 10. 1991, p. 153. (3) OJ No C 310, 30. 11. 1981, p. 22. (4) OJ No L 319, 25. 11. 1988, p. 1 and corrigendum in OJ No L 241, 17. 8. 1989, p. 4. (5) OJ No L 144, 16. 6. 1993, p. 21. (6) OJ No L 197, 18. 7. 1987, p. 33. (7) OJ No L 208, 24. 7. 1992, p. 1.
Statement by the Council and the Commission on the seat of the Office for Harmonization in the Internal Market (trade marks and designs) 'In adopting the Regulation on the Community Trade Mark, the Council and the Commission note: - that the representatives of the Governments of the Member States, meeting at Head of State and Government level on 29 October 1993, decided that the Office for Harmonization in the Internal Market (trade marks and designs) should have its seat in Spain, in a town to be determined by the Spanish Government; - that the Spanish Government has designated Alicante as the seat of the Office.`
