Firearms are classified and defined in section II of that Annex. 2.
CHAPTER 2 Harmonization of legislation concerning firearms Article 4 At least in respect of categories A and B, each Member State shall make the pursuit of the activity of dealer within its territory conditional upon authorization on the basis of at least a check on the private and professional integrity of the dealer.
Article 5 Without prejudice to Article 3, Member States shall allow the acquisition and possession of firearms classified in category B only by persons who have good cause and who: (a) are 18 years old or more, except for hunting or target shooting; (b) are not likely to be a danger to themselves, to public order or to public safety.
Article 6 Member States shall take all appropriate steps to prohibit the acquisition and the possession of the firearms and ammunition classified in category A.
No one may acquire a firearm classified in category B within the territory of a Member State unless that Member State has so authorized him.
No one may be in possession of a firearm classified in category B within the territory of a Member State unless that Member State has so authorized him.
If a Member State prohibits or makes subject to authorization the acquisition and possession within its territory of a firearm classified in category B, C or D, it shall so inform the other Member States, which shall expressly include a statement to that effect on any European firearms pass they issue for such a firearm, pursuant to Article 12 (2).
The handing over of a firearm classified in category A, B or C to a person who is not resident in the Member State in question shall be permitted, subject to compliance with the obligations laid down in Articles 6, 7 and 8: - where the person acquiring it has been authorized in accordance with Article 11 himself to effect a transfer to his country of residence, - where the person acquiring it submits a written declaration testifying to and justifying his intention to be in possession of the firearm in the Member State of acquisition, provided that he fulfils the legal conditions for possession in that Member State. 2.
Article 10 The arrangements for the acquisition and possession of ammunition shall be the same as those for the possession of the firearms for which the ammunition is intended.
CHAPTER 3 Formalities for the movement of weapons within the Community Article 11 1.
Firearms may, without prejudice to Article 12, be transferred from one Member State to another only in accordance with the procedure laid down in the following paragraphs.
Where a firearm is to be transferred to another Member State, the person concerned shall, before it is taken there, supply the following particulars to the Member State in which such firearm is situated: - the names and addresses of the person selling or disposing of the firearm and of the person purchasing or acquiring it or, where appropriate, of the owner, - the address to which the firearm is to be consigned or transported, - the number of firearms to be consigned or transported, - the particulars enabling the firearm to be identified and also an indication that the firearm has undergone a check in accordance with the Convention of 1 July 1969 on the Reciprocal Recognition of Proofmarks on Small Arms, - the means of transfer, - the date of departure and the estimated date of arrival.
In the case of transfer of the firearms, other than weapons of war, excluded from the scope of this Directive pursuant to Article 2 (2), each Member State may grant dealers the right to effect transfers of firearms from its territory to a dealer established in another Member State without the prior authorization referred to in paragraph 2.
Notwithstanding paragraph 1, hunters, in respect of categories C and D, and marksmen, in respect of category B, C and D, may without prior authorization be in possession of one or more firearms classified in these categories during a journey through two or more Member States with a view to engaging in their activities, provided that they are in possession of a European firearms pass listing such firearm or firearms and provided that they are able to substantiate the reasons for their journey, in particular by producing an invitation.
CHAPTER 4 Final provisions Article 15 1.
The Commission shall pass on such information to the other Member States.
Article 16 Member States shall introduce penalties for failure to comply with the provisions adopted pursuant to this Directive.
Article 17 Within five years from the date of transposition of this Directive into national law, the Commission shall submit a report to the European Parliament and to the Council on the situation resulting from the application of this Directive, accompanied, if appropriate, by proposals.
Article 18 Member States shall bring into force the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with this Directive in good time so that the measures provided for by this Directive may be put into effect not later than 1 January 1993.
Article 19 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Luxembourg, 18 June 1991.
WOHLFART (1) OJ No C 235, 1. 9. 1987, p. 8 and OJ No C 299, 28. 11. 1989, p. 6. (2) OJ No C 231, 17. 9. 1990, p. 69 and OJ No C 158, 17. 6. 1991, p. 89. (3) OJ No C 35, 8. 2. 1988, p. 5.
For the purposes of this Directive, 'weapon' means: - any firearm as defined in section II of this Annex, - weapons other than firearms as defined in national legislation.
For the purposes of this Directive, 'firearm' means: A.
Automatic firearms. 3.
Ammunition with penetrating, explosive or incendiary projectiles, and the projectiles for such ammunition. 5.
Category B - Firearms subject to authorization 1.
Single-shot short firearms with centre-fire percussion. 3.
Single-shot short firearms with rimfire percussion whose overall length is less than 28 cm. 4.
Repeating and semi-automatic long firearms with smooth-bore barrels not exceeding 60 cm in length. 7.
Category C - Firearms subject to declaration 1.
Repeating long firearms other than those listed in category B, point 6. 2.
Long firearms with single-shot rifled barrels. 3.
Semi-automatic long firearms other than those in category B, points 4 to 7. 4.
ANNEX II EUROPEAN FIREARMS PASS The pass must include the following sections: (a) identity of the holder; (b) identification of the weapon or firearm, including a reference to the category within the meaning of the Directive; (c) period of validity of the pass; (d) section for use by the Member State issuing the pass (type and references of authorizations, etc.); (e) section for entries by other Member States (authorizations to enter their territory, etc.); (f) the statements: 'The right to travel to another Member State with one or more of the firearms in categories B, C or D mentioned in this pass shall be subject to one or more prior corresponding authorizations from the Member State visited.
