Article 3 Member States shall prescribe that feed materials may circulate in the Community only of they are sound, genuineAA-1 and of merchantable quality.
Article 4 Member States shall prescribe that the general provisions laid down in Part A of the Annex shall apply to the putting into circulation of feed materials.
This information must be separate from the information referred to in paragraph 1. 3.
By way of derogation from Article 5 (1) (a): - in German the designation 'Futtermittel-Ausgangserzeugnis` may be replaced by 'Einzelfuttermittel`, - in Italian the designation 'materie prime per alimenti degli animali` may be replaced by 'mangime semplice`, - in Greek the designation 'ðñþôç ýëç æùïôñïöþí` may be replaced by 'áðëÞ æùïôñïöÞ`.
Article 9 For the purpose of circulation within the Community, the indications printed on the accompanying document, on the packaging, on the container or on a label attached thereto shall be written in at least one or several languages which the country of destination shall determine from among the national or official languages of the Community.
Article 10 Member States shall ensure that feed materials are not subject, for reasons connected with the provisions of this Directive, to restrictions of circulation other than those laid down in this Directive.
Article 11 In accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 14: (a) a numerical coding system for the listed feed materials based on glossaries concerning the origin, part of the product/by-product used, processing and maturity/quality of the feed materials enabling feed to be identified at international level - in particular by name and description - may be adopted; (b) the Annex may be amended in the light of advances in scientific and technical knowledge.
Article 12 Member States shall make all necessary arrangements for compliance with the requirements of this Directive to be officially monitored, at least by sampling during circulation.
Article 19 This Directive shall enter into force on the 20th day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Article 20 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Luxembourg, 29 April 1996.
For the Council The President W.
Directive as last amended by Commission Directive 95/55/EC (OJ No L 263, 4. 11. 1995, p. 18). (6) OJ No L 38, 11. 2. 1974, p. 31.
EXPLANATORY NOTES 1.
The botanical purity of the products and by-products listed in Part B and Part C shall not be less than 95 %, unless a different level has been laid down in Part B or Part C. 2.
Subject to Article 3 of the Directive and provided that no other level is laid down in Part B of this Annex the level of ash insoluble in hydrochloric acid of feed materials must be stated if it exceeds 2,2 % in the dry matter.
In the case of binding agents, the quantity of the products used may not exceed 3 % of the total weight.
PROVISIONS REGARDING MINIMUM TOLERATED LEVELS INDICATED OR TO BE DECLARED AS SPECIFIED IN PART B AND C Where, on official inspection pursuant to Article 12 of the Directive, the composition of a feed material is found to depart from the declared composition in a manner such as to reduce its value, the following minimum tolerances are permitted: (a) for crude protein: - 2 units for declared contents of 20 % or more, - 10 % of the declared content for declared contents of less than 20 % but not less than 10 %, - 1 unit for declared contents of less than 10 %; (b) for total sugars, reducing sugars, sucrose, lactose and glucose (dextrose): - 2 units for declared contents of 20 % or more, - 10 % of the declared content for declared contents of less than 20 % but not less than 5 %, - 0,5 unit for declared contents of less than 5 %; (c) for starch and inulin: - 3 units for declared contents of 30 % or more, - 10 % of the declared content for declared contents of less than 30 % but not less than 10 %, - 1 unit for declared contents of less than 10 %; (d) for crude oils and fats: - 1,8 units for declared contents of 15 % or more, - 12 % of the declared content for declared contents of less than 15 % but not less than 5 %, - 0,6 unit for declared contents of less than 5 %; (e) for crude fibre: - 2,1 units for declared contents of 14 % or more, - 15 % of the declared content for declared contents of less than 14 % but not less than 6 %, - 0,9 unit for declared contents of less than 6 %; (f) for moisture and crude ash: - 1 unit for declared contents of 10 % or more, - 10 % of the declared content for declared contents of less than 10 % but not less than 5 %, - 0,5 unit for declared contents of less than 5 %; (g) for total phosphorus, sodium, calcium carbonate, calcium, magnesium, acid index and matter insoluble in light petroleum: - 1,5 units for declared contents (values) of 15 % (15) or more, as appropriate, - 10 % of the declared content (value) for declared contents (values) of less than 15 % (15), but not less than 2 % (2), as appropriate, - 0,2 unit for declared contents (values of less than 2 % (2) as appropriate; (h) for ash insoluble in hydrochloric acid and chlorides expressed as NaCI: - 10 % of the declared content for declared contents of 3 % or more, - 0,3 unit for declared contents of less than 3 %; (i) for carotene, vitamin A and xanthophyll: - 30 % of the declared content; (j) for methionine, lysine and volatile nitrogenous bases: - 20 % of the declared content.
