Article 2 In order to be awarded the Community eco-label, for hand dishwashing detergents, under Regulation (EC) No 1980/2000, a detergent must fall within the product group "hand dishwashing detergents" and must comply with the ecological criteria set out in the Annex to this Decision.
Article 3 The ecological criteria for the product group "hand dishwashing detergents", as well as the related assessment and verification requirements, shall be valid until 31 December 2008.
Article 4 For administrative purposes the code number assigned to the product group "hand dishwashing detergents" shall be 019.
Article 5 Decision 2001/607/EC is repealed.
Article 6 Eco-labels awarded before the notification date of this Decision in respect of products falling within the product group "hand dishwashing detergents" may continue to be used until 31 March 2006.
In such cases, the eco-label may be used until 31 March 2006.
Article 7 This Decision is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 23 March 2005.
For the Commission Stavros Dimas Member of the Commission [1] OJ L 237, 21.9.2000, p. 1. [2] OJ L 214, 8.8.2001, p. 30. -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX FRAMEWORK In order to qualify for the eco-label, a hand dishwashing detergent (hereinafter referred to as the product) must fall within the product group as defined in Article 1, and must comply with the criteria of this Annex.
Appendix I presents the new revised detergent ingredient database (DID list), version 30 June 2004, which contains the most widely used ingredients in detergent formulations.
Part A of the DID list shall be used for deriving the data for the calculations of CDVtox and for the assessment of the biodegradability of surfactants.
ECOLOGICAL CRITERIA 1.
Toxicity to aquatic organisms The critical dilution volume toxicity (CDVtox) is calculated for each ingredient (i) using the following equation: CDV tox (ingredient i) = weight (i) x DF (i) / TF chronic (i) x 1000 +++++ TIFF +++++ where weight (i) is the weight of the ingredient (in grams) per recommended dose for 1 litre of dishwashing water, DF (i) is the degradation factor and TF chronic (i) is the toxicity factor of the ingredient (in milligram/litre).
The values of DF and TF chronic shall be as given in the Detergent Ingredient Database list-part A (DID list-part A) (Appendix I).
If the ingredient in question is not included in the DID list part A, the applicant shall estimate the values following the approach described in the DID list part B (Appendix I).
The DID list part A (Appendix I) indicates whether a specific surfactant is aerobically biodegradable or not (the surfactants with an entry of "R" in the column on aerobic biodegradability are readily biodegradable).
For surfactants which are not included in the DID list part A, the relevant information from literature or other sources, or appropriate test results, showing that they are aerobically biodegradable shall be provided.
Surfactants shall be considered as readily biodegradable if the level of biodegradability (mineralisation) measured according to one of the five following tests is at least 60 % within 28 days: CO2 headspace test (OECD 310), carbon dioxide (CO2) Evolution Modified Sturm test (OECD 301B; Directive 67/548/EEC Annex V.C.4-C), Closed Bottle test (OECD 301D; Directive 67/548/EEC Annex VC(4E)), Manometric Respirometry (OECD 301F; Directive 67/548/EEC Annex VC(4D)), or MITI (I) test (OECD 301C; Directive 67/548/EEC Annex VC(4F)), or their equivalent ISO tests.
Depending on the physical characteristics of the surfactant, one of the following tests might be used to confirm ready biodegradability, if the level of biodegradability is at least 70 % within 28 days: Dissolved Organic Carbon DOC Die-Away (OECD 301A; Directive 67/548/EEC Annex VC(4A)) or Modified OECD Screening DOC Die-Away (OECD 301E; Directive 67/548/EEC Annex VC(4B)), or their equivalent ISO tests.
The DID list part A (Appendix I) indicates whether a specific surfactant is anaerobically biodegradable or not (the surfactants with an entry of "Y" in the column on anaerobic biodegradability are biodegradable under anaerobic conditions).
For surfactants which are not included in the DID list part A, the relevant information from literature or other sources, or appropriate test results, showing that they are anaerobically biodegradable shall be provided.
The reference test for anaerobic degradability shall be OECD 311, ISO 11734, ECETOC No 28 (June 1988) or an equivalent test method, with the requirement of a minimum of 60 % ultimate degradability under anaerobic conditions.
Test methods simulating the conditions in a relevant anaerobic environment may also be used to document that 60 % ultimate degradability has been attained under anaerobic conditions (see Appendix II). 3.
Packaging requirements (a) The primary packaging, except for the cap, shall have a volumetric coefficient of packaging (VCP) less than or equal to 1,9.
This criterion does not apply if the primary packaging is made up of 50 % or more recycled material.
FITNESS FOR USE 10.
CONSUMER INFORMATION 11.
The use of pictograms is voluntary. +++++ TIFF +++++ Recommended dosage for 5 litres of dishwashing water:not very dirty x ml (y tea spoons) of productdirty z ml (w tea spoons) of product where x, y, z and w have to be defined by the applicant and/or the manufacturer.
Information appearing on the eco-label Box 2 of the eco-label shall contain the following text: - reduced impact on aquatic life, - reduced use of hazardous substances, - clear user instructions. [1] OJ L 104, 8.4.2004, p. 1. [2] OJ 196, 16.8.1967, p. 1. [3] OJ L 200, 30.7.1999, p. 1. [4] OJ L 262, 27.9.1976, p. 169. [5] OJ L 237, 10.9.1994, p. 13. [6] OJ L 365, 31.12.1994, p. 10. -------------------------------------------------- Appendix I DID LIST For ingredients that are included in the part A of DID list, the values for toxicity and degradability in the list must be used for the assessment of compliance with the ecological criteria.
For ingredients that are not in the part-A of DID list, the procedure described in part B shall be used for establishing toxicity and degradability values.
TF(acute) = toxicity factor based on acute toxicity on aquatic organisms.
SF(chronic) = xafety factor for chronic toxicity.
TF(chronic) = toxicity factor based on chronic toxicity on aquatic organisms.
Anaerobic degradation: Y = biodegradable under anaerobic conditions.
DF(i) = degradation factor for ingredient i.
TF(i) = toxicity factor for ingredient i.
The chronic toxicity factor (TFchronic) - Calculate the median value within each trophic level (fish, crustaceans or algae) using validated test results for chronic toxicity.
If several test results are available for one species within a trophic level, a median for the species shall be calculated first, and these median values shall be used when calculating the median value for the trophic level. - The chronic toxicity factor (TFchronic) is the lowest median of the trophic levels calculated. - The TFchronic shall be used when calculating the critical dilution volume criterion.
The acute toxicity factor (TFacute) - Calculate the median value within each trophic level (fish, crustaceans or algae) using validated test results for acute toxicity.
If several test results are available for one species within a trophic level, a median for the species shall be calculated first, and these median values shall be used when calculating the median value for the trophic level. - The acute toxicity factor (TFacute) is the lowest median of the trophic levels. - The TFacute shall be used when calculating the critical dilution volume criterion.
If the ingredient degrade within five days: DF = 0,05, within 15 days: DF = 0,15 or within 50 days: DF = 0,5. -------------------------------------------------- Appendix II Documentation of anaerobic biodegradability The following approach may be used to provide the necessary documentation of anaerobic biodegradability in the case of ingredients that are not listed in the DID list.
If anaerobic biodegradability has been confirmed for a surfactant (or a group of homologues) according to the DID list (Appendix I), it can be assumed that a similar type of surfactant is also anaerobically biodegradable (for example, C12-15 A 1-3 EO sulphate (DID No 8) is anaerobically biodegradable, and a similar anaerobic biodegradability may also be assumed for C12-15 A 6 EO sulphate).
If new testing is necessary, perform a screening test by use of OECD 311, ISO 11734, ECETOC No 28 (June 1988) or an equivalent method.
Testing at low dosages may be performed by use of OECD 308 ( 24 April 2002) or an equivalent method provided that strict anaerobic conditions are applied.
The volume must be determined in litres to one decimal point. - The water hardness, specified in OdH, and the calcium-magnesium-ratio must be known. - The water temperature must be the same for all subtests.
Furthermore, the generic reference product must be approved by the competent body and the exact formulation must be commonly available free of charge. - The dosage of test product and reference product shall be the recommended dosage in all tests, normalised to the given volume of water and weighed in grams to one decimal point.
COMPARISON - A positive result of a test round is obtained when the capacity and cleanness are as good as or better for the test product compared with the reference product. - The test product is considered to have fulfilled the performance requirements when positive results are obtained in at least 80 % of the test rounds.
As an alternative, the applicant may use statistical methods and demonstrate with a one-sided 95 % confidence range that the test product is as good as or better than the reference product in at least 80 % of the test rounds. - It shall also be shown that the test product has a better cleaning ability than that of pure water.
Note on available tests The IKW performance test "Recommendation for the quality assessment of the cleaning performance of hand dishwashing detergents" (Nitsch, C. %amp% Hüttmann, G.
The performance test from the Danish Consumer Information ("Testing of hand dishwashing detergents"; Danish title: "Undersøgelse af håndopvaskemidler med FI smuds", 2003) fulfils the requirements of this framework provided that testing of cleaning capacity is included.
