The supply, sale or transfer of arms and related materiel, referred to in paragraph 1 shall only be made to receiving sites as designated by the Government of National Unity and Transition, in coordination with MONUC, and notified in advance to the Sanctions Committee. 3.
Member States shall require adequate safeguards against misuse of authorisation granted pursuant to paragraph 3 and, where appropriate, make provisions for repatriation of the delivered arms and related materiel.
Paragraph 1 shall not oblige a Member State to refuse its own nationals entry into its territory. 3.
Paragraph 1 shall not apply where the Sanctions Committee determines in advance and on a case-by-case basis that travel is justified on the grounds of humanitarian need, including religious obligation, or where the Sanctions Committee concludes that an exemption would further the objectives of the Security Council Resolutions, that are peace and national reconciliation in the DRC and stability in the region. 4.
No funds, financial assets or economic resources shall be made available directly or indirectly to or for the benefit of such persons or entities. 3.
Paragraph 2 shall not apply to the addition to frozen accounts of: (a) interest or other earnings on those accounts; or (b) payments due under contracts, agreements or obligations that were concluded or arose prior to the date on which those accounts became subject to restrictive measures, provided that any such interest, other earnings and payments continue to be subject to paragraph 1.
Article 6 The Council shall establish the list contained in the Annex and implement any modifications thereof on the basis of the determination made by the Sanctions Committee.
Article 7 This Common Position shall take effect on the date of its adoption.
Article 9 Common Position 2002/829/CFSP is hereby repealed.
Article 10 This Common Position shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Asselborn [1] OJ L 285, 23.10.2002, p. 1.
Common Position as amended by the Common Position 2003/680/CFSP (OJ L 249, 1.10.2003, p. 64). -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX List of persons and entities referred to in Articles 3, 4 and 5 (Annex to be completed after designation by the Committee established by paragraph 8 of United Nations Security Council Resolution 1533 (2004).) --------------------------------------------------
