Article 4 Information for the competent authorities of the host Member State The administrative or judicial authorities of the home Member State shall without delay inform, by any available means, the competent authorities of the host Member State of their decision to adopt any reorganisation measure, including the practical effects which such a measure may have, if possible before it is adopted or otherwise immediately thereafter.
Information shall be communicated by the competent authorities of the home Member State.
Article 5 Information for the supervisory authorities of the home Member State Where the administrative or judicial authorities of the host Member State deem it necessary to implement within their territory one or more reorganisation measures, they shall inform the competent authorities of the home Member State accordingly.
Where implementation of the reorganisation measures decided on pursuant to Article 3(1) and (2) is likely to affect the rights of third parties in a host Member State and where an appeal may be brought in the home Member State against the decision ordering the measure, the administrative or judicial authorities of the home Member State, the administrator or any person empowered to do so in the home Member State shall publish an extract from the decision in the Official Journal of the European Communities and in two national newspapers in each host Member State, in order in particular to facilitate the exercise of the right of appeal in good time. 2.
Article 7 Duty to inform known creditors and right to lodge claims 1.
Where the legislation of the home Member State requires lodgement of a claim with a view to its recognition or provides for compulsory notification of the measure to creditors who have their domiciles, normal places of residence or head offices in that State, the administrative or judicial authorities of the home Member State or the administrator shall also inform known creditors who have their domiciles, normal places of residence or head offices in other Member States, in accordance with the procedures laid down in Articles 14 and 17(1). 2.
Where the legislation of the home Member State provides for the right of creditors who have their domiciles, normal places of residence or head offices in that State to lodge claims or to submit observations concerning their claims, creditors who have their domiciles, normal places of residence or head offices in other Member States shall also have that right in accordance with the procedures laid down in Article 16 and Article 17(2).
The administrative or judicial authorities of the host Member State of a branch of a credit institution having its head office outside the Community shall without delay inform, by any available means, the competent authorities of the other host Member States in which the institution has set up branches which are included on the list referred to in Article 11 of Directive 2000/12/EC and published each year in the Official Journal of the European Communities, of their decision to adopt any reorganisation measure, including the practical effects which that measure may have, if possible before it is adopted or otherwise immediately thereafter.
A decision to open winding-up proceedings taken by the administrative or judicial authority of the home Member State shall be recognised, without further formality, within the territory of all other Member States and shall be effective there when the decision is effective in the Member State in which the proceedings are opened. 2.
Information shall be communicated by the competent authorities of the home Member State.
Article 10 Law applicable 1.
Article 11 Consultation of competent authorities before voluntary winding up 1.
Article 12 Withdrawal of a credit institution's authorisation 1.
Article 13 Publication The liquidators or any administrative or judicial authority shall announce the decision to open winding-up proceedings through publication of an extract from the winding-up decision in the Official Journal of the European Communities and at least two national newspapers in each of the host Member States.
Article 14 Provision of information to known creditors 1.
When winding-up proceedings are opened, the administrative or judicial authority of the home Member State or the liquidator shall without delay individually inform known creditors who have their domiciles, normal places of residence or head offices in other Member States, except in cases where the legislation of the home State does not require lodgement of the claim with a view to its recognition. 2.
Article 15 Honouring of obligations Where an obligation has been honoured for the benefit of a credit institution which is not a legal person and which is the subject of winding-up proceedings opened in another Member State, when it should have been honoured for the benefit of the liquidator in those proceedings, the person honouring the obligation shall be deemed to have discharged it if he was unaware of the opening of proceedings.
Where such an obligation is honoured before the publication provided for in Article 13 has been effected, the person honouring the obligation shall be presumed, in the absence of proof to the contrary, to have been unaware of the opening of winding-up proceedings; where the obligation is honoured after the publication provided for in Article 13 has been effected, the person honouring the obligation shall be presumed, in the absence of proof to the contrary, to have been aware of the opening of proceedings.
Article 16 Right to lodge claims 1.
Article 17 Languages 1.
The information provided for in Articles 13 and 14 shall be provided in the official language or one of the official languages of the home Member State.
Any creditor who has his domicile, normal place of residence or head office in a Member State other than the home Member State may lodge his claim or submit observations relating to his claim in the official language or one of the official languages of that other Member State.
Credit institutions the head offices of which are outside the Community Article 19 Branches of third-country credit institutions 1.
The administrative or judicial authorities of the host Member State of the branch of a credit institution the head office of which is outside the Community shall without delay inform, by any available means, the competent authorities of the other host Member States in which the credit institution has set up branches on the list referred to in Article 11 of Directive 2000/12/EC and published each year in the Official Journal of the European Communities, of their decision to open winding-up proceedings, including the practical effects which these proceedings may have, if possible before they open or otherwise immediately thereafter.
Information shall be communicated by the competent authorities in the host Member State which has decided to open the proceedings. 3.
TITLE IV PROVISIONS COMMON TO REORGANISATION MEASURES AND WINDING-UP PROCEEDINGS Article 20 Effects on certain contracts and rights The effects of a reorganisation measure or the opening of winding-up proceedings on: (a) employment contracts and relationships shall be governed solely by the law of the Member State applicable to the employment contract; (b) a contract conferring the right to make use of or acquire immovable property shall be governed solely by the law of the Member State within the territory of which the immovable property is situated.
That law shall determine whether property is movable or immovable; (c) rights in respect of immovable property, a ship or an aircraft subject to registration in a public register shall be governed solely by the law of the Member State under the authority of which the register is kept.
Article 21 Third parties' rights in re 1.
The rights referred to in paragraph 1 shall in particular mean: (a) the right to dispose of assets or have them disposed of and to obtain satisfaction from the proceeds of or income from those assets, in particular by virtue of a lien or a mortgage; (b) the exclusive right to have a claim met, in particular a right guaranteed by a lien in respect of the claim or by assignment of the claim by way of a guarantee; (c) the right to demand the assets from, and/or to require restitution by, anyone having possession or use of them contrary to the wishes of the party so entitled; (d) a right in re to the beneficial use of assets. 3.
Article 22 Reservation of title 1.
Article 23 Set-off 1.
Article 24 Lex rei sitae The enforcement of proprietary rights in instruments or other rights in such instruments the existence or transfer of which presupposes their recording in a register, an account or a centralised deposit system held or located in a Member State shall be governed by the law of the Member State where the register, account, or centralised deposit system in which those rights are recorded is held or located.
Article 27 Regulated markets Without prejudice to Article 24, transactions carried out in the context of a regulated market shall be governed solely by the law of the contract which governs such transactions.
Article 28 Proof of liquidators' appointment 1.
Article 29 Registration in a public register 1.
In that event, the person or authority referred to in the preceding subparagraph shall take all the measures necessary to ensure such registration. 2.
Article 30 Detrimental acts 1.
Article 10 shall not apply as regards the rules relating to the voidness, voidability or unenforceability of legal acts detrimental to the creditors as a whole, where the beneficiary of these acts provides proof that: - the act detrimental to the creditors as a whole is subject to the law of a Member State other than the home Member State, and - that law does not allow any means of challenging that act in the case in point. 2.
Article 31 Protection of third parties Where, by an act concluded after the adoption of a reorganisation measure or the opening of winding-up proceedings, a credit institution disposes, for consideration, of: - an immovable asset, - a ship or an aircraft subject to registration in a public register, or - instruments or rights in such instruments the existence or transfer of which presupposes their being recorded in a register, an account or a centralised deposit system held or located in a Member State, the validity of that act shall be governed by the law of the Member State within the territory of which the immovable asset is situated or under the authority of which that register, account or deposit system is kept.
Article 32 Lawsuits pending The effects of reorganisation measures or winding-up proceedings on a pending lawsuit concerning an asset or a right of which the credit institution has been divested shall be governed solely by the law of the Member State in which the lawsuit is pending.
Article 33 Professional secrecy All persons required to receive or divulge information in connection with the information or consultation procedures laid down in Articles 4, 5, 8, 9, 11 and 19 shall be bound by professional secrecy, in accordance with the rules and conditions laid down in Article 30 of Directive 2000/12/EC, with the exception of any judicial authorities to which existing national provisions apply.
TITLE V FINAL PROVISIONS Article 34 Implementation 1.
Member States shall bring into force the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with this Directive on 5 May 2004.
Article 35 Entry into force This Directive shall enter into force on the date of its publication.
Article 36 Addressees This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Luxembourg, 4 April 2001.
Fontaine For the Council The President B.
Directive as amended by Directive 2000/28/EC (OJ L 275, 27.10.2000, p. 37). (6) OJ L 135, 31.5.1994, p. 5. (7) OJ L 166, 11.6.1998, p. 45.
