Council Regulation (EC) No 408/2002 of 28 February 2002 imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty and collecting definitively the provisional duty imposed on imports of certain zinc oxides originating in the People's Republic of China Council Regulation (EC) No 408/2002 of 28 February 2002 imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty and collecting definitively the provisional duty imposed on imports of certain zinc oxides originating in the People's Republic of China THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, Having regard to Council Regulation (EC) No 384/96 of 22 December 1995 on protection against dumped imports from countries not Members of the European Community(1), and in particular Article 9 thereof, Having regard to the proposal submitted by the Commission after consulting the Advisory Committee, Whereas: A.
PROVISIONAL MEASURES (1) The Commission, by Regulation (EC) No 1827/2001(2) (%quot%provisional Regulation%quot%), imposed a provisional anti-dumping duty on imports of certain zinc oxides originating in the People's Republic of China (%quot%PRC%quot%). (2) In addition to the verification visits undertaken at the premises of exporting producers in the PRC, as mentioned in recital 7 of the provisional Regulation, it should be noted that verification visits were also carried out at the premises of a number of related export sales companies, namely: Guangxi Liuzhou Nonferrous Metals Smelting Import %amp% Export Co.
Ltd, Liuzhou, as well as at a related domestic company: Gredmann Guangzhou Ltd, Guangzhou.
SUBSEQUENT PROCEDURE (3) Subsequent to the disclosure of the essential facts and considerations on the basis of which it was decided to impose provisional anti-dumping measures, several interested parties submitted comments in writing.
If certain users accept a higher content of impurities this is mostly on the basis of price considerations. (10) Therefore, the comments made by the interested parties are not in any way sufficient to lead to a change of earlier findings, as set out in recital 11 of the provisional Regulation, that all grades of the product concerned should be considered as a single product. (11) The findings, as set out in recitals 9 to 11 of the provisional Regulation, with regard to the product concerned are hereby confirmed. 2.
Like product (12) Certain interested parties claimed that producers of zinc oxide in the Community and the PRC used dissimilar production processes that gave zinc oxide produced in the PRC significant cost advantages in terms of raw material and other costs.
Furthermore, a significant proportion of the sales made by the Community industry is obtained from the direct process and the costs related to both processes have been taken into account in the investigation. (14) No new elements were brought to the attention of the Commission to lead it to alter the conclusions reached at the provisional stage, namely that the zinc oxide produced and sold by Community producers and that produced in the PRC and exported to the Community are a like product. (15) The provisional findings concerning the like product as set out in recitals 12 to 14 of the provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed.
The claim is therefore rejected and the findings in recitals 15 to 24 of the provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed. 2.
Individual treatment (18) In the absence of any comments under this heading, the provisional findings, as set out in recitals 25 to 27 of the provisional Regulation, are hereby confirmed. 3.
This particular issue was already dealt with in detail in recitals 28 to 36 of the provisional Regulation and is hereby confirmed. (20) In the absence of any new comments under this heading, the provisional findings, as set out in recitals 37 to 39 of the provisional Regulation, are hereby confirmed.
Determination of normal value for exporting producers granted MET (21) The %quot%users%quot%, as well as some of the Chinese producers, claimed that the Chinese zinc raw material prices were determined by the Chinese market and should, therefore, be considered without making adjustments in accordance with the LME zinc quotations.
As explained in recitals 46 and 47 of the provisional Regulation, the prices for supply and demand of zinc or zinc-related products in market economy countries worldwide are based on LME zinc quotations.
The claims have, therefore, to be rejected and the methodology used for the adjustment of zinc raw material prices through LME zinc quotations is hereby confirmed. (22) After the publication of the provisional Regulation, one of the Chinese producers requested that the abovementioned adjustment to the zinc raw material cost be made to the price of zinc concentrates rather than to the price of zinc calcine on the grounds that its production process began with zinc concentrates.
The SG %amp% A used in this calculation should thus relate to the production and sales of the like product on the domestic market of the country of origin, as provided for in Article 2(6) of the basic Regulation.
The company's claim had therefore to be rejected and the initial findings are hereby confirmed. (25) The Chinese producers which were granted MET claimed that the profit made by sales of by-products generated from the manufacture of zinc calcine and/or zinc oxide should be deducted from the manufacturing costs of zinc oxide.
The calculations have consequently been corrected. (28) Concerning the methodology described in recitals 40 to 47 of the provisional Regulation, these findings are hereby confirmed. 4.
Comparison (31) In the absence of any comments under this heading, the provisional findings, as set out in recitals 49 and 50 of the provisional Regulation, are hereby confirmed. 6.
The argument was consequently accepted and a new calculation has been made limited to the sales and/or costs of zinc oxide produced by the company itself. (33) The definitive weighted average dumping margins expressed as a percentage of the cif (cost, insurance, freight) Community price duty unpaid for the product produced by the following manufacturers are: %gt%TABLE%gt% For all other exporting producers (34) The level of dumping provisionally established at 69,8 % of the cif Community frontier price is hereby confirmed.
COMMUNITY INDUSTRY (35) Certain parties claimed that on the basis of recital 57 of the provisional Regulation, it appeared that 15 out of 21 zinc oxide producers in the Community did not cooperate in the investigation.
It should be recalled that the six producers who did cooperate in the investigation represented a major part of Community zinc oxide production in the investigation period, 1 January to 31 December 2000 (%quot%IP%quot%), in this case, more than 75 % of the production of the 21 known companies, thereby satisfying the requirements of Article 5(4).
In the absence of any new information submitted with respect to the definition of the Community industry, the findings as set out in recitals 57 to 59 of the provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed.
Preliminary remarks (36) In the absence of any arguments to the contrary, the methodology used for establishing the level of imports of the product concerned into the Community as set out in recital 60 of the provisional Regulation and that used to determine Community consumption of zinc oxide (recitals 62 and 63) is hereby confirmed. 2.
One interested party also claimed that the Commission's findings were erroneous, as the data used in recital 82 of the provisional Regulation concerning cash flow were incomplete.
The same interested parties also pointed to the fact that some of the parent companies of the entities forming the Community industry recorded substantial profits in the IP and that as such the Community industry did not suffer material injury within the meaning of Article 3 of the basic Regulation. (39) These arguments could not be accepted.
Secondly, it is to be recalled that the current investigation is limited in scope to the product concerned as defined in recital 9 of the provisional Regulation.
Whilst it is true that the parent companies of certain members of the Community industry recorded profits during the IP, the overall level of profitability for their zinc oxide activities in the Community was negative in this period as set out in recital 77 of the provisional Regulation. (40) As regards the cash flow information detailed in recital 82 of the provisional Regulation, it is acknowledged that some entities forming the Community industry were not able to supply detailed information concerning their zinc oxide activities.
However, the entities which were able to do so, and whose verified information was used by the Commission to arrive at their provisional findings, accounted for over 80 % of the production of the Community industry in the IP.
They argued that the years 1993, 1994 and 1995 should be considered in order to have a better appreciation of the market.
The information provided by the interested parties concerning events occurring after the IP, consisting principally of references to the fall in the zinc quotation on the LME, did not give any basis on which it could be said that the findings reached in the investigation were no longer valid.
Conclusion on injury (44) Given that no other arguments were received regarding the injury suffered by the Community industry, the conclusion that it has suffered material injury within the meaning of Article 3 of the basic Regulation, as detailed in recitals 72 to 89 of the provisional Regulation, is hereby confirmed.
Another interested party argued that the provisional Regulation failed to take proper account of the depreciation of the euro against the US dollar in the second half of the analysis period and that this factor, rather than the imports from the PRC, was responsible for the injury suffered by the Community industry. (46) In view of the fact that the first interested party gave no other factors which it considered could be responsible for the injury suffered by the Community industry, this claim adds nothing new to the investigation and should therefore be rejected. (47) With regard to the issue of the depreciation of the euro against the dollar raised by the other interested party, it was accepted in recital 61 of the provisional Regulation that this may have magnified the increase in the cost of zinc as a raw material.
The claim that the dumped imports were not responsible for the injury suffered by the Community industry is therefore rejected. (48) In view of the above considerations and given that no other valid arguments were received regarding the possible cause of the injury suffered by the Community industry, it is hereby confirmed that the dumped imports of zinc oxide originating in the PRC caused injury to the Community industry.
Consequently, the conclusion that there are no compelling reasons not to impose measures, as set out in recital 151 of the provisional Regulation, is hereby confirmed.
ANTI-DUMPING MEASURES 1.
Form and level of the duties (58) Three of the four cooperating exporting producers in China exported their manufactured products either directly or via their respective related trading companies.
However, the investigation revealed that the related trading companies also exported zinc oxide which they had purchased from producers which did not cooperate in the investigation.
A definitive anti-dumping duty is hereby imposed on imports of zinc oxide (chemical formula: ZnO) with a purity of not less than 93 % zinc oxide, falling within CN code ex 2817 00 00 (TARIC code 2817 00 00 11 ) and originating in the People's Republic of China. 2.
The application of the individual duty rates specified for the four companies mentioned in paragraph 2 shall be conditional upon presentation to the customs authorities of the Member States of a valid commercial invoice, which shall conform to the requirements set out in the Annex.
Article 2 The amounts secured by way of the provisional anti-dumping duty imposed pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 1827/2001 shall be definitively collected at the rate of the duties definitively imposed.
Article 3 This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Done at Brussels, 28 February 2002.
