Regulation (EC) No 1592/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 July 2002 on common rules in the field of civil aviation and establishing a European Aviation Safety Agency (Text with EEA relevance) Regulation (EC) No 1592/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 July 2002 on common rules in the field of civil aviation and establishing a European Aviation Safety Agency (Text with EEA relevance) THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular Article 80(2) thereof, Having regard to the proposal from the Commission(1), Having regard to the Opinion of the Economic and Social Committee(2), Having consulted the Committee of the Regions, Acting in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 251 of the Treaty(3), Whereas: (1) A high and uniform level of protection of the European citizen should at all times be ensured in civil aviation, by the adoption of common safety rules and by measures ensuring that products, persons and organisations in the Community comply with such rules and those adopted to protect the environment.
The Commission should be empowered to develop the necessary implementing rules. (7) In order to achieve Community objectives as regards the freedom of movement of goods, persons and services, as well as those of the common transport policy, Member States should, without further requirements or evaluation, accept products, parts and appliances, organisations or persons certified in accordance with this Regulation and its implementing rules. (8) Enough flexibility should be provided for addressing special circumstances such as urgent safety measures, unforeseen or limited operational needs and provisions should also be made for reaching an equivalent safety level by other means.
In the absence of such agreements, Member States should nevertheless be allowed, subject to appropriate Community control, to recognise the approvals granted to foreign products, parts and appliances, organisations and personnel by a third country. (10) It is necessary to establish appropriate measures to ensure both the necessary protection of sensitive safety data and to provide the public with adequate information pertaining to the level of civil aviation safety and environmental protection relating thereto, taking into account Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2001 regarding public access to European Parliament, Council and Commission documents(4) and relevant national legislation. (11) There is a need for better arrangements in all the fields covered by this Regulation, so that certain tasks currently performed at Community or national level should be carried out by a single specialised expert body.
An appropriate appeal mechanism should be set up so that decisions of the Executive Director can be subject to appeal to a specialised Board of Appeal, whose decisions are, in turn, open to action before the Court of Justice. (16) In order to guarantee the full autonomy and independence of the Agency, it should be granted an autonomous budget whose revenue comes essentially from a contribution from the Community and from fees paid by the users of the system.
European countries that have concluded agreements with the Community to adopt and apply the Community acquis in the field covered by this Regulation should be associated with its work according to conditions to be agreed in the framework of these agreements. (21) It is a general objective that the transfer of functions and tasks from the Member States, including those resulting from their cooperation through the Joint Aviation Authorities, to the Agency should be effected efficiently, without any reduction in the current high levels of safety, and without any negative impact on certification schedules.
This Regulation shall not apply when products, parts, appliances, personnel and organisations referred to in paragraph 1 are engaged in military, customs, police, or similar services.
Article 2 Objectives 1.
The principal objective of this Regulation is to establish and maintain a high uniform level of civil aviation safety in Europe. 2.
The means of achieving the objectives set out in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall be: (a) the preparation, adoption and uniform application of all necessary acts; (b) the recognition, without additional requirements, of certificates, licences, approvals or other documents granted to products, personnel and organisations in accordance with this Regulation and its implementing rules; (c) the establishment of an independent European Aviation Safety Agency; (d) the uniform implementation of all necessary acts by the national aviation authorities and the Agency within their respective areas of responsibility.
CHAPTER II SUBSTANTIVE REQUIREMENTS Article 4 Basic principles and applicability 1.
This Regulation shall not affect the rights of third countries as specified in international conventions, in particular the Chicago Convention.
Article 5 Airworthiness 1.
It shall be issued with appropriate limitations, in particular to protect third parties' safety; (b) a restricted certificate of airworthiness may be issued to aircraft for which a type certificate has not been issued according to paragraph 2(a).
Aircraft eligible for these restricted certificates, and limitations for use of these aircraft, shall be defined according to the implementing rules referred to in paragraph 4; (c) when the number of aircraft of the same type eligible for a restricted certificate of airworthiness so justifies, a restricted type certificate may be issued and an appropriate type certification basis shall be established. 4.
Article 6 Essential requirements for environmental protection 1.
Products, parts and appliances shall comply with the environmental protection requirements contained in Annex 16 to the Chicago Convention as issued in November 1999, except for its Appendices. 2.
Article 7 Air operations and flight crew licensing With regard to the basic principles, applicability and essential requirements for the fields covered by Article 1(1)(b), the Commission shall, as soon as possible, submit proposals thereon to the European Parliament and to the Council.
Article 8 Recognition of certificates 1.
Article 9 Acceptance of third-country approval 1.
The Commission shall decide, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 54(3), whether an inadequate level of safety or a shortcoming in this Regulation or its implementing rules justify the continuing application of the measures adopted pursuant to paragraph 1.
If the Member State's measures are found not to be justified, the Member State shall revoke or amend the measures in question. 3.
Article 11 Information network 1.
CHAPTER III THE EUROPEAN AVIATION SAFETY AGENCY SECTION I TASKS Article 12 Establishment and functions of the Agency 1.
Article 13 Agency measures The Agency shall, where appropriate: (a) issue opinions addressed to the Commission; (b) issue certification specifications, including airworthiness codes and acceptable means of compliance, as well as any guidance material for the application of this Regulation and its implementing rules; (c) take the appropriate decisions for the application of Articles 15, 45 and 46.
Article 14 Opinions, certification specifications and guidance material 1.
The Agency shall, in accordance with Article 43 and the implementing rules adopted by the Commission, develop: (a) certification specifications, including airworthiness codes and acceptable means of compliance; and (b) guidance material; to be used in the certification process.
Article 15 Airworthiness and Environmental Certification 1.
Article 16 Monitoring the application of rules 1.
The working methods of the Agency for conducting the tasks referred to in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 will be subject to requirements to be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 54(2), and taking into account the principles laid down in Articles 43 and 44.
Article 17 Research 1.
Article 18 International relations 1.
The Agency may cooperate with the aeronautical authorities of third countries and the international organisations competent in matters covered by this Regulation in the framework of working arrangements concluded with those bodies, in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Treaty. 3.
SECTION II INTERNAL STRUCTURE Article 19 Legal status, location, local offices 1.
Article 20 Staff 1.
The Staff Regulations of officials of the European Communities, the Conditions of employment of other servants of the European Communities and the rules adopted jointly by the institutions of the European Communities for purposes of the application of those Staff Regulations and Conditions of employment shall apply to the staff of the Agency, without prejudice to the application of Article 33 of this Regulation to the members of the Board of Appeal. 2.
Article 21 Privileges and immunities The Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Communities shall apply to the Agency.
Article 22 Liability 1.
The contractual liability of the Agency shall be governed by the law applicable to the contract in question. 2.
The Court of Justice shall have jurisdiction in disputes relating to compensation for the damage referred to in paragraph 3. 5.
Article 23 Publication of documents 1.
Without prejudice to decisions taken on the basis of Article 290 of the Treaty, the following documents shall be produced in all official languages of the Community: (a) the safety review referred to in Article 11(4); (b) opinions addressed to the Commission pursuant to Article 14(1); (c) the annual general report and programme of work referred to in Article 24(2)(b) and (c) respectively. 2.
Article 24 Powers of the Management Board 1.
The Management Board shall: (a) appoint the Executive Director, and the Directors on a proposal from the Executive Director in accordance with Article 30; (b) before 31 March each year, adopt the general report of the Agency for the previous year and forward it to the European Parliament, the Council, the Commission and the Member States; (c) before 30 September each year, and after receiving the opinion of the Commission, adopt the Agency's programme of work for the coming year and forward it to the European Parliament, the Council, the Commission and the Member States; this programme of work shall be adopted without prejudice to the annual Community budgetary procedure and the Community legislative programme in relevant areas of aviation safety; (d) adopt guidelines for the allocation of certification tasks to national aviation authorities or qualified entities in agreement with the Commission; (e) establish procedures for making decisions by the Executive Director as referred to in Articles 43 and 44; (f) carry out its functions relating to the Agency's budget pursuant to Articles 48, 49 and 52; (g) appoint the members of the Board of Appeal pursuant to Article 32; (h) exercise disciplinary authority over the Executive Director and over the Directors, in agreement with the Executive Director; (i) give its opinion on the fees and charges regulation as referred to in Article 53(1); (j) establish its Rules of Procedure; (k) decide on the linguistic arrangements for the Agency; (l) complement, where appropriate, the list of documents mentioned in Article 23(1); (m) establish the organisational structure of the Agency and adopt the Agency's staffing policy. 3.
Article 25 Composition of the Management Board 1.
Article 26 Chairmanship of the Management Board 1.
The Management Board shall elect a Chairperson and a Deputy Chairperson from among its members.
Article 27 Meetings 1.
Article 28 Voting 1.
Article 29 Functions and powers of the Executive Director 1.
Article 30 Appointment of senior officials 1.
The Executive Director of the Agency shall be appointed on grounds of merit and documented competence and experience relevant for civil aviation, or dismissed by the Management Board on the proposal of the Commission.
The Executive Director may be assisted by one or more Directors.
Article 31 Powers of the Boards of Appeal 1.
Within the Agency, there shall be one or more Boards of Appeal. 2.
The Board or Boards of Appeal shall be responsible for deciding on appeals against the decisions referred to in Article 35. 3.
Article 32 Composition of the Boards of Appeal 1.
A Board of Appeal shall consist of a Chairperson and two other members. 2.
Article 33 Members of the Boards of Appeal 1.
The members of the Boards of Appeal may not perform any other duties in the Agency.
The function of the members of the Boards of Appeal may be a part-time function. 4.
Article 34 Exclusion and objection 1.
Article 35 Decisions subject to appeal 1.
An appeal may be brought against decisions of the Agency which have been taken pursuant to Article 15, 46 or 53. 2.
Article 36 Persons entitled to appeal Any natural or legal person may appeal against a decision addressed to that person, or against a decision which, although in the form of a decision addressed to another person, is of direct and individual concern to the former.
Article 37 Time limit and form The appeal, together with the statement of grounds thereof, shall be filed in writing at the Agency within two months of the notification of the measure to the person concerned, or, in the absence thereof, of the day on which it came to the knowledge of the latter, as the case may be.
Article 38 Interlocutory revision 1.
Article 39 Examination of appeals 1.
If the appeal is admissible, the Board of Appeal shall examine whether the appeal is well founded. 2.
Article 41 Actions before the Court of Justice 1.
An appeal may be brought before the Court of Justice against decisions of the Boards of Appeal on the terms and conditions laid down in Article 230 of the Treaty. 2.
Should the Agency fail to take a decision, proceedings for failure to act may be brought before the Court of Justice on the terms and conditions laid down in Article 232 of the Treaty. 3.
Article 42 Direct appeal Member States and the Community institutions may lodge a direct appeal before the Court of Justice against decisions of the Agency.
SECTION III WORKING METHODS Article 43 Procedures for the development of opinions, certification specifications and guidance material 1.
Article 44 Procedures for taking decisions 1.
The Management Board shall establish transparent procedures for taking individual decisions as provided for in Article 13(c).
Those procedures shall: (a) ensure the hearing of the natural or legal person to be addressed in the decision and of any other party with a direct and individual concern; (b) provide for notification of a decision to a natural or legal person and its publication; (c) provide for information to the natural or legal person to whom a decision is addressed, and any other parties to proceedings, of the legal remedies available to that person under this Regulation; (d) ensure that the decision contains reasons. 2.
Article 45 Inspections of Member States 1.
The officials authorised under this Regulation, and the national authorities, are thus empowered, in compliance with the legal provisions of the Member State concerned: (a) to examine the relevant records, data, procedures and any other material relevant to the achievement of aviation safety levels in accordance with this Regulation; (b) to take copies of or extracts from such records, data, procedures and other material; (c) to ask for an oral explanation on the spot; (d) to enter any relevant premises, land or means of transport. 2.
Article 46 Investigation of undertakings 1.
The persons authorised for the purpose of these investigations shall exercise their powers upon production of an authorisation in writing specifying the subject matter and purpose of the investigation. 3.
Officials of the Member State concerned shall, at the request of the Agency, assist the authorised persons in carrying out their duties.
Article 47 Transparency and communication 1.
The Agency may communicate on its own initiative in the fields within its mission.
SECTION IV FINANCIAL REQUIREMENTS Article 48 Budget 1.
The revenues of the Agency shall consist of: (a) a contribution from the Community and from any European third country with which the Community has concluded agreements referred to in Article 55; (b) the fees paid by applicants for, and holders of, certificates and approvals issued by the Agency; and (c) charges for publications, training and any other services provided by the Agency. 2.
Revenue and expenditure shall be in balance. 5.
The Management Board shall, by 31 March, at the latest, adopt the draft estimates, including the provisional establishment plan accompanied by the preliminary work programme, and forward them to the Commission and to the States with which the Community has concluded the agreements referred to in Article 55.
On the basis of that draft budget, the Commission shall establish the relevant estimates in the preliminary draft general budget of the European Union, which it shall put before the Council pursuant to Article 272 of the Treaty.
Article 49 Implementation and control of the budget 1.
By 31 March each year at the latest, the Executive Director shall submit to the Commission, the Management Board and the Court of Auditors the detailed accounts of all revenue and expenditure from the previous financial year.
The Court of Auditors shall examine those accounts in accordance with Article 248 of the Treaty.
Article 50 Combating fraud 1.
Article 51 Evaluation 1.
Article 52 Financial provisions The Management Board, having received the agreement of the Commission and the opinion of the Court of Auditors, shall adopt the Agency's Financial Regulation, which shall in particular specify the procedure to be used for drawing up and implementing the Agency's budget, in accordance with Article 142 of the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities.
CHAPTER IV FINAL PROVISIONS Article 54 Committee 1.
Where reference is made to this paragraph, Article 6 of Decision 1999/468/EC shall apply.
Article 55 Participation of European third countries The Agency shall be open to the participation of European third countries which are Contracting Parties to the Chicago Convention and which have entered into agreements with the European Community whereby they have adopted and are applying Community law in the field covered by this Regulation and its implementing rules.
Article 56 Commencement of the Agency's operation 1.
The Agency shall undertake the certification tasks incumbent upon it pursuant to Article 15 as from 28 September 2003.
During an additional transition period of 42 months from the date referred to in paragraph 1, Member States may continue to issue certificates and approvals by way of derogation from the provisions of Articles 5, 6, 9 and 15 under the conditions specified by the Commission in the implementing rules adopted for their application.
Article 57 Repeal 1.
Directive 80/51/EEC and Annex II to Regulation (EEC) No 3922/91 shall be repealed as from 28 September 2003. 2.
Article 58 Entry into force This Regulation shall enter into force on the 20th day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Articles 5 and 6 shall apply as from the dates specified in the implementing rules.
Done at Brussels, 15 July 2002.
For the European Parliament The President P.
Cox For the Council The President M.
Fischer Boel (1) OJ C 154 E, 29.5.2001, p. 1. (2) OJ C 221, 7.8.2001, p. 38. (3) Opinion of the European Parliament of 5 September 2001 (OJ C 72 E, 21.3.2002, p. 146), Council Common Position of 19 December 2001 (OJ C 58 E, 5.3.2002, p. 44) and Decision of the European Parliament of 9 April 2002 (not yet published in the Official Journal).
ANNEX I Essential requirements for airworthiness referred to in Article 5 1.
All necessary instructions for ensuring continued airworthiness in this regard must be promulgated. 1.b.
The propulsion system must produce, within its stated limits, the thrust or power demanded of it at all required flight conditions, taking into account environmental effects and conditions. 1.b.2.
All necessary instructions for ensuring continued airworthiness in this regard must be promulgated. 1.b.4.
Instructions for continuing airworthiness must be established to ensure that the aircraft type certification airworthiness standard is maintained throughout the operational life of the aircraft. 1.d.2.
The following must be shown to have been addressed to ensure a satisfactory level of safety for those onboard or on the ground during the operation of the product: 2.a.1.
The kinds of operation for which the aircraft is approved must be established and limitations and information necessary for safe operation, including environmental limitations and performance, must be established. 2.a.2.
the organisation must establish an occurrence reporting and/or handling system, which must be used by the management system under point 3.a.2 and the arrangements under point 3.a.3, in order to contribute to the aim of continuous improvement of the safety of products. 3.b.
In the case of maintenance training organisations, the conditions under points 3.a.3 and 3.a.4 do not apply.
ANNEX II Aircraft referred to in Article 4(2) Aircraft to which Article 4(1) does not apply are aircraft for which a type-certificate or a certificate of airworthiness has not been issued on the basis of this Regulation and its implementing rules, and which fall in one of the following categories: (a) aircraft having a clear historical relevance, related to: (i) participation in a noteworthy historic event; or (ii) a major step in the development of aviation; or (iii) a major role played in the armed forces of a Member State; and meeting one or more of the following criteria: (i) its initial design is established as being more than 40 years old; (ii) its production stopped at least 25 years ago; (iii) fewer than 50 aircraft of the same basic design are still registered in the Member States; (b) aircraft specifically designed or modified for research, experimental or scientific purposes, and likely to be produced in very limited numbers; (c) aircraft of which at least 51 % is built by an amateur, or a non-profit association of amateurs, for their own purposes and without any commercial objective; (d) aircraft whose initial design was intended for military purposes only; (e) aeroplanes having no more than two seats, the stall speed or the minimum steady flight speed in landing configuration not exceeding 35 knots calibrated air speed (CAS), and a maximum take-off mass (MTOM) of no more than: (i) 300 kg for a land plane, single seater; or (ii) 450 kg for a land plane, two seater; or (iii) 330 kg for an amphibian or floatplane single seater; or (iv) 495 kg for an amphibian or floatplane two seater, provided that, where operating both as a floatplane and as a land plane, it falls below both MTOM limits, as appropriate; (f) %quot%gliders%quot% with a structural mass of less than 80 kg when single seater or 100 kg when two seater, including those which are foot launched; (g) unmanned aircraft with an operating mass of less than 150 kg; (h) any other aircraft with a total mass without pilot of less than 70 kg.
