The level of cooperation amounted, according to Eurostat data, to more than 87 % of the overall imports from the People's Republic of China.
Three unrelated importers, Frank %amp% Schulte Benelux from the Netherlands, Timab Industries SA from France and GBC Ltd from the United Kingdom, also replied to the questionnaire and made their views known in writing.
No reply was obtained from the users of the product with the exception of Timab Industries, which itself imported the product in question. (7) The Commission services sought and verified all information they deemed necessary for the purpose of determining the continuation or recurrence of dumping and injury and of the Community interest.
The examination of the situation of the Community industry covered the period from 1 January 1994 up to the end of the IP (hereinafter referred to as %quot%the IIP%quot%).
In order to produce CCM, magnesite has to be mined, crushed, sorted and then burned in a kiln at temperatures of 700 to 1000 °C.
This is confirmed by the fact that both the Community producers and the Chinese exporters have a number of common customers. (15) Therefore, CCM exported to the Community on the one hand and the product produced and sold by the Community industry in the Community market and the product produced and sold in the domestic market of the analogue country, on the other hand, are interchangeable and have to be considered a single like product within the meaning of Article 1(4) of the Basic Regulation.
Finally, one Indian producer agreed to provide the information requested in the questionnaire. (19) As far as the proposal to use the domestic sales prices of the limestone or dolomite in Germany is concerned, it should be pointed out that limestone and dolomite cannot be considered as being like CCM as their chemical characteristics are different. (20) The domestic sales of the Indian cooperating producer have been found to represent significantly more than 5 % of the total Community imports from the People's Republic of China during the IP.
DEFINITION OF THE COMMUNITY INDUSTRY (35) According to Article 4(1) of the Basic Regulation, the term %quot%Community industry%quot% shall be interpreted as referring to the Community producers as a whole of the like product or to those of them whose collective output of the products constitutes a major proportion, as defined in Article 5(4) of the Basic Regulation, of the total Community production of those products.
The period 1994 to 1996 was characterised by a continuous growth of consumption up to 422000 t in 1996.
The volume imported during the IP is near the level of the previous investigation period in the original investigation (120000 t). (41) The share of CCM imported from the People's Republic of China in terms of volume among all imports into the Community was between 77 % and 82 % during the IIP.
However, it should be noted that at the time of the previous investigation period, the import share of the People's Republic of China accounted only for around 54 %. (42) The market share of the imports from the People's Republic of China in the Community market rose from 1994 to the IP from 26,3 % to 31 %.
This is equivalent to an overall increase of 4,7 points during the IIP.
In 1996, in the year with the exceptionally high demand, the Chinese market share reached 36,4 %.
The average sales prices of the imports concerned increased thus during the IIP by about 14 %. (44) It was argued that the Chinese export licence system which was allegedly introduced after the anti-dumping duties had been imposed would have progressively limited the supply of Chinese CCM into the Community thereby pushing up the Chinese sales prices to the Community.
On this basis, the sales prices for CCM produced and sold by the Community industry were compared to the sales prices of Chinese CCM used for the same purpose. (46) It should be noted that the cooperating Chinese exporters sold a significant share of their export volume to the Community via customers located outside the Community at a fob-Chinese border level.
Hence, adjustments had to be made in order to come to a cif Community frontier level on the basis of the information of the cooperating importers and exporters. (47) The weighted average cif prices of the imports concerned were compared to the prices of the Community producers, adjusted for differences in delivery terms, for those markets where both parties realised sales, since only in such markets could a meaningful comparison be carned out.
The production rose by 6 % from around 207000 t to around 219000 t in the period mentioned above. (b) Production capacity (51) The production capacity of the Community industry rose from 265000 t in 1994 to 280000 t in the IP.
Since then, the capacity utilisation of the Community industry decreased continuously. (d) Sales by volume (53) The total sales volume of the Community producers went up from around 209000 t in 1994 to almost 211000 t in the IP.
This is equivalent to a decrease of five percentage points during the IIP.
In 1996, the year with the especially high demand, the Community industry's market share dropped down to 50 %.
The Community industry's sales prices reached a peak in 1996 due to the high demand of the market in that year.
While the prices for agricultural CCM increased during the IIP by 13 %, the sales prices for CCM used for industrial purposes rose by 6 %.
The Commission considered that, due to the considerable amount of sales of by-products, both in value and volume terms, which had been marketed over an extended period of time, they had to be reflected in the CCM profitability analysis with the result that the profitability realised on CCM sales increased. (57) On this basis, the profitability of the Community industry, expressed as a percentage of net sales, increased during the IIP from a weighted average loss of 4,0 % in 1994 to a profit of 5,2 % in the IP.
The profit situation of the Community industry as a whole has improved by 9,2 percentage points during the IIP.
The Community industry has invested strongly, particularly in the years 1995 and 1996.
Both production and production capacity have increased by about 6 % during the IIP, while the average sales prices rose by about 7 % in the same period.
The closing stocks of the Community industry continuously rose between 1994 and 1997-the overall increase in the IIP amounted to 38 %.
Due to the above-described high demand for CCM in 1996, imports from other third countries reached a peak in that year with more than 33000 t. (67) The market share of imports from other third countries was 8 % from 1994 to 1996 and decreased by one percentage point in 1997.
It was alleged that the demand in the Community expanded rapidly between 1995 and 1996, thereby exceeding the Community industry's capacity, which made an increase of Chinese CCM imports inevitable.
It should be noted, however, that the capacity utilisation rate of the Community industry was about 89 % in 1995 and dropped continuously since.
It can therefore be concluded that Community consumption did not have a major influence on the situation of the Community industry during the IIP. (70) Moreover, it seems that it was rather the decreasing Chinese import prices from 1995 onwards that made the Chinese import volume increase.
In any event, no such significant increase in demand occurred in the period up to the IP, which could explain the increase in imports and market share of Chinese CCM as established during the investigation. (71) The Community industry undertook considerable efforts to improve its competitiveness towards the main Chinese competitors and competitors from other third countries.
From 1994 to 1997, the Community industry invested considerable amounts in order to modernise and rationalise its production facilities.
This implies that, if the minimum price of ECU 112 t is met, the actual sales price without licence fee would be around ECU 75 t. (73) Furthermore, according to Eurometaux the Liaoning Province where most of the producers are situated, introduced in 1995 another local tax which in 1997 amounted to around ECU 15 t.
It has been argued that this licence system is sufficient to reduce the risk of renewed injurious dumping. (74) Eurometaux claimed that the Chinese licence system for magnesite could be abolished soon and feared that Chinese exports of magnesite would, as a consequence of the abolition, increase in volume and considerably decrease in prices, should the anti-dumping measures not be continued. (75) The exporters argue that the licence system has brought stability and reliability in the exports of magnesite from the People's Republic of China and that there is no reason to assume that the system would be dropped soon.
In 1995, Chinese exports to the USA increased to an absolute maximum of more than 96000 t a volume at about the same level as the volume of Chinese exports to the Community, while the trend was decreasing in 1996 again. (79) Even though the Chinese CIF sales prices to the United States increased from 1994 to 1995 by 80 % starting from a very low level, they have decreased since and remained considerably below the EU minimum price of ECU 112 t imposed in 1993. (80) A price comparison for all types of CCM shows, according to Eurostat, a Chinese average sales price in the Community market which is about one third higher than the average sales price in the US market.
Since this did not allow for a representative analysis of the Chinese CCM production and since no official statistics were available, the Commission had, according to Article 18 of the Basic Regulation, to use the information available. (82) Therefore, it was decided that the information provided in the request for review reflecting industry and market research information should be used.
According to these sources, production in the last few years can be estimated to be at around 600000 t annually, of which only 200000 t are destined for the Chinese domestic market. (83) On the same basis, information from the request for review had to be used in determining the production capacity, capacity utilisation and stocks.
According to the same source, the production capacity of the Chinese producers amounted to more than 700000 t per year.
Even though these prices increased from 1994 to 1997 by about 70 % starting from a very low level, they still remained considerably below the EU minimum price imposed in 1993 and the actual Chinese export prices to the Community. (85) Furthermore, given the nature of the Chinese licence system, whose abolition would alone allow the Chinese cif sales prices to drop by about EUR 37 t, the huge raw material reserves and the large Chinese unused production capacities demonstrate that there is a significant potential that the Chinese exporters will resume injurious imports again.
Introduction (86) In accordance with Article 21 of the Basic Regulation, it was examined whether a prolongation of the existing anti-dumping measures would be against the interest of the Community as a whole.
Consequently, the timing and nature of the present investigation has allowed an assessment of any negative impact on the parties concerned by the anti-dumping measures imposed. (88) The Commission sent questionnaires to 24 importers, of which three unrelated importers and one related importer fully cooperated.
The objective of the anti-dumping measures under review, that is, to reestablish fair competition in the Community market between the Community producers and their exporting counterparts in third countries, has not been fully met as has been shown above. (92) The Community industry has been making considerable efforts to improve its productivity in recent years, in an attempt to lower its cost of production and to enhance its competitiveness in this price sensitive market.
On the contrary, the investigation revealed that the Community industry's sales prices have increased during the IIP by about 7 % and the Chinese market share in the Community during the IIP rose by about 5 %. (96) On the other hand, some other importers and one importing user stated that the anti-dumping measures had created a certain price stability in the Community market for CCM.
The Community industry, even when exploiting its total production capacity, could only satisfy about 80 % of the demand on the Community market.
HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: Article 1 1.
A definitive anti-dumping duty is hereby imposed on imports of magnesium oxide originating in the People's Republic of China falling within CN code ex 2519 90 90 (Taric code 2519 90 90*10 ). 2.
The amount of the duty shall be the difference between EUR 112 per tonne and the net, free-at-Community-frontier price before customs clearance, if the latter price is lower. 3.
Done at Luxembourg, 21 June 1999.
