Article 2 For the purposes of this Directive, the definitions given in Article 2 of Directive 64/433/EEC and in Article 2 of Directive 71/118/EEC shall apply.
CHAPTER II Rules applicable to the production and placing on the market of rabbit meat Article 3 1.
Member States shall take the measures necessary to ensure the health control of these operations provided for in paragraph 1 and to adopt rules enabling the original holding of such meat to be traced. 3.
Farmed game meat obtained from cloven-hoofed wild land mammals shall fulfil the relevant conditions referred to in Article 3 and Article 5 (b) to (k) of Directive 64/433/EEC, provided that the original herd undergoes regular veterinary inspection and is not under any restrictions following the survey performed according to Article 11 or as a result of veterinary inspection.
This authorization may be granted provided that: - the herd undergoes regular veterinary inspection and is not under any restrictions following the survey performed according to Article 12 or as a result of veterinary inspection, - a request is submitted by the owner of the animals, - the official service is informed in advance of the date of slaughtering of the animals, - the holding has a centre for mustering wild animals where an ante-mortem inspection of the group for slaughter can be carried out, - the holding has premises suitable for the slaughter, sticking and bleeding of the animals, - slaughter by means of sticking and bleeding is preceded by stunning, which must be carried out in the conditions laid down in Directive 74/577/EEC (13); the veterinary service may authorize shooting only in special cases, - the slaughtered and bled animals are hung as quickly as possible after slaughter and are transported under satisfactory hygiene conditions to a slaughterhouse approved in accordance with Directive 66/433/EEC.
Where game slaughtered at the place of rearing cannot be brought within the hour to a slaughterhouse approved in accordance with Article 8 of Directive 64/433/EEC, it must be transported in a container or means of transport in which the ambient temperature is maintained at between 0 oC and 4 oC.
Pending the adoption of health rules applicable to meat reserved for the domestic market, the slaughtering of farmed big game and the cutting and storage of the meat referred to in paragraph 1 may, by way of derogation from paragraph 1, be performed in establishments approved by the national authorities for the domestic market, provided that such meat does not enter intra-Community trade.
Countries of destination may, with due regard for the general provisions of the Treaty, grant one or more countries of consignment general authorizations or authorizations restricted to specific cases, whereby the fresh meat referred to in Article 5 (b) and (i) to (k) of Directive 64/433/EEC may be admitted to their territory.
Article 8 Meat of farmed game birds shall fulfil the conditions referred to in Article 3 of Directive 71/118/EEC.
Meat of farmed game birds intended for intra-Community trade shall be accompanied by the health certificate provided for in Article 8 of Directive 71/118/EEC, which shall correspond to the model in Annex IV to this Directive.
The use of the health mark provided for in Chapter X of Annex I to Directive 71/118/EEC shall be prohibited in the event that this derogation is exercised.
Article 10 Article 8 shall not apply to meat of farmed game birds which, in isolated cases, is supplied by the producer thereof direct to the final consumer for his own consumption otherwise than by itinerant sale, sale by mail order or sale on a market.
The inspection must be repeated immediately before slaughter if more than 24 hours have elapsed since ante-mortem inspection.
The animals referred to at point 4 must be killed separately or after slaughter of all other rabbits and their meat hygienically disposed of.
CHAPTER II Post-mortem health inspection of rabbits 6.
CHAPTER III Public health marking 10.
The public health marking shall consist of the following: (a) - on the upper part, the initial letter or letters in capitals of the name of the country of dispatch: B, D, DK, EL, ESP, F, IRL, I, L, NL, P, UK, - in the centre, the veterinary approval number of the slaughterhouse or, where appropriate, the cutting premises, - on the lower part, one of the following sets of initials: CEE, EEG, EWG, EOEF, EEC or EOK, the letters and figures must be 0,2 cm high or (b) an oval containing the information listed in (a); the letters must be 0,8 cm high and the figures 1,1 cm high. 2.
CHAPTER IV Storage 12.
CHAPTER V Transport 13.
ANNEX II MODEL PUBLIC HEALTH CERTIFICATE for fresh rabbit meat (¹) intended for consignment to a Member State of the EEC Exporting country: .
Competent service: .
Origin of meat Address(es) and veterinary approval number(s) of the slaughterhouse(s) (%): . .
Address(es) and veterinary approval number(s) of the approved cutting premises (%): . .
Name and address of consignor: . .
Number of animals: .
Identification marking: .
on . . (signature of official veterinarian) (¹) Under the conditions provided for in Article 6 (3) of Directive 90/495/EEC. (²) Optional.
ANNEX IV MODEL HEALTH CERTIFICATE for fresh farmed game meat (¹) intended for consignment to a Member State of the EEC Exporting country: .
Competent service: .
Origin of meat Address(es) and veterinary approval number(s) of the slaughterhouse(s) (%): . .
Address(es) and veterinary approval number(s) of the approved cutting premises (%): . .
Name and address of consignor: . .
Health attestation I, the undersigned, official veterinarian, certify that: (a) - the meat of the species described above (%), - the packaging of the meat described above (%), bears a mark proving that: - the meat comes from animals slaughtered in approved slaughterhouses (%), - the meat was cut in approved cutting premises (%); (b) this meat has been passed as fit for human consumption following a veterinary inspection carried out in accordance with: - the Council Directive 77/118/EEC of 15 February 1971 on health problems affecting trade in fresh poultrymeat (%), - Council Directive 64/433/EEC of 26 June 1964 on health problems affecting intra-Community trade in fresh meat (%); (c) the transport vehicles or containers and the loading conditions of this consignment meet the hygiene requirements laid down in that Directive.
Done at . , on . . (Signature of official veterinarian) (%) Delete as appropriate.
