The need for such requirements should be reviewed periodically in the light of the progress made in establishing a Community framework for administrative cooperation between Member States. (8) The service provider should be subject to the application of disciplinary rules of the host Member State having a direct and specific link with the professional qualifications, such as the definition of the profession, the scope of activities covered by a profession or reserved to it, the use of titles and serious professional malpractice which is directly and specifically linked to consumer protection and safety. (9) While maintaining, for the freedom of establishment, the principles and safeguards underlying the different systems for recognition in force, the rules of such systems should be improved in the light of experience.
It is therefore necessary to replace Council Directives 89/48/EEC [5] and 92/51/EEC [6], as well as Directive 1999/42/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council [7] on the general system for the recognition of professional qualifications, and Council Directives 77/452/EEC [8], 77/453/EEC [9], 78/686/EEC [10], 78/687/EEC [11], 78/1026/EEC [12], 78/1027/EEC [13], 80/154/EEC [14], 80/155/EEC [15], 85/384/EEC [16], 85/432/EEC [17], 85/433/EEC [18] and 93/16/EEC [19] concerning the professions of nurse responsible for general care, dental practitioner, veterinary surgeon, midwife, architect, pharmacist and doctor, by combining them in a single text. (10) This Directive does not create an obstacle to the possibility of Member States recognising, in accordance with their rules, the professional qualifications acquired outside the territory of the European Union by third country nationals.
However, pursuant to Articles 10, 39 and 43 of the Treaty, they should not require a national of a Member State to obtain qualifications, which they generally lay down only in terms of the diplomas awarded under their national educational system, where the person concerned has already obtained all or part of those qualifications in another Member State.
Conversely, where access to a regulated profession is contingent upon successful completion of higher or university education of more than four years, such access should be permitted only to holders of a diploma certifying successful completion of higher or university education of at least three years' duration. (15) In the absence of harmonisation of the minimum training conditions for access to the professions governed by the general system, it should be possible for the host Member State to impose a compensation measure.
This Directive should take account, under certain conditions, in compliance with the competence of Member States to decide the qualifications required for the pursuit of professions in their territory as well as the contents and the organisation of their systems of education and professional training and in compliance with Community law, and in particular Community law on competition, of those initiatives, while promoting, in this context, a more automatic character of recognition under the general system.
Professional associations which are in a position to submit common platforms should be representative at national and European level.
These criteria could, for example, include requirements such as additional training, an adaptation period under supervised practice, an aptitude test, or a prescribed minimum level of professional practice, or combinations thereof. (17) In order to take into account all situations for which there is still no provision relating to the recognition of professional qualifications, the general system should be extended to those cases which are not covered by a specific system, either where the profession is not covered by one of those systems or where, although the profession is covered by such a specific system, the applicant does not for some particular and exceptional reason meet the conditions to benefit from it. (18) There is a need to simplify the rules allowing access to a number of industrial, commercial and craft activities, in Member States where those professions are regulated, in so far as those activities have been pursued for a reasonable and sufficiently recent period of time in another Member State, while maintaining for those activities a system of automatic recognition based on professional experience. (19) Freedom of movement and the mutual recognition of the evidence of formal qualifications of doctors, nurses responsible for general care, dental practitioners, veterinary surgeons, midwives, pharmacists and architects should be based on the fundamental principle of automatic recognition of the evidence of formal qualifications on the basis of coordinated minimum conditions for training.
With a view to simplifying this Directive, reference should be made to the concept of "architect" in order to delimit the scope of the provisions relating to the automatic recognition of the qualifications in the field of architecture, without prejudice to the special features of the national regulations governing those activities. (29) Where a national and European-level professional organisation or association for a regulated profession makes a reasoned request for specific provisions for the recognition of qualifications on the basis of coordination of minimum training conditions, the Commission shall assess the appropriateness of adopting a proposal for the amendment of this Directive. (30) In order to ensure the effectiveness of the system for the recognition of professional qualifications, uniform formalities and rules of procedure should be defined for its implementation, as well as certain details of the pursuit of the profession. (31) Since collaboration among the Member States and between them and the Commission is likely to facilitate the implementation of this Directive and compliance with the obligations deriving from it, the means of collaboration should be organised. (32) The introduction, at European level, of professional cards by professional associations or organisations could facilitate the mobility of professionals, in particular by speeding up the exchange of information between the host Member State and the Member State of origin.
A single committee for the recognition of professional qualifications should be set up for this purpose, and suitable involvement of representatives of the professional organisations, also at European level, should be ensured. (35) The measures necessary for the implementation of this Directive should be adopted in accordance with Council Decision 1999/468/EC of 28 June 1999 laying down the procedures for the exercise of implementing powers conferred on the Commission [20]. (36) The preparation by the Member States of a periodic report on the implementation of this Directive, containing statistical data, will make it possible to determine the impact of the system for the recognition of professional qualifications. (37) There should be a suitable procedure for adopting temporary measures if the application of any provision of this Directive were to encounter major difficulties in a Member State. (38) The provisions of this Directive do not affect the powers of the Member States as regards the organisation of their national social security system and determining the activities which must be pursued under that system. (39) In view of the speed of technological change and scientific progress, life-long learning is of particular importance for a large number of professions.
In this context, it is for the Member States to adopt the detailed arrangements under which, through suitable ongoing training, professionals will keep abreast of technical and scientific progress. (40) Since the objectives of this Directive, namely the rationalisation, simplification and improvement of the rules for the recognition of professional qualifications, cannot be sufficiently achieved by the Member States and can therefore be better achieved at Community level, the Community may adopt measures, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity as set out in Article 5 of the Treaty.
In accordance with the principle of proportionality, as set out in that Article, this Directive does not go beyond what is necessary in order to achieve those objectives. (41) This Directive is without prejudice to the application of Articles 39(4) and 45 of the Treaty concerning notably notaries. (42) This Directive applies, concerning the right of establishment and the provision of services, without prejudice to other specific legal provisions regarding the recognition of professional qualifications, such as those existing in the field of transport, insurance intermediaries and statutory auditors.
This Directive does not affect the operation of Council Directive 77/249/EEC of 22 March 1977 to facilitate the effective exercise by lawyers of freedom to provide services [21], or of Directive 98/5/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 1998 to facilitate practice of the profession of lawyer on a permanent basis in a Member State other than that in which the qualification was obtained [22].
Article 2 Scope 1.
Each Member State may permit Member State nationals in possession of evidence of professional qualifications not obtained in a Member State to pursue a regulated profession within the meaning of Article 3(1)(a) on its territory in accordance with its rules.
Article 3 Definitions 1.
Where the first sentence of this definition does not apply, a profession referred to in paragraph 2 shall be treated as a regulated profession; (b) "professional qualifications": qualifications attested by evidence of formal qualifications, an attestation of competence referred to in Article 11, point (a) (i) and/or professional experience; (c) "evidence of formal qualifications": diplomas, certificates and other evidence issued by an authority in a Member State designated pursuant to legislative, regulatory or administrative provisions of that Member State and certifying successful completion of professional training obtained mainly in the Community.
Where the first sentence of this definition does not apply, evidence of formal qualifications referred to in paragraph 3 shall be treated as evidence of formal qualifications; (d) "competent authority": any authority or body empowered by a Member State specifically to issue or receive training diplomas and other documents or information and to receive the applications, and take the decisions, referred to in this Directive; (e) "regulated education and training": any training which is specifically geared to the pursuit of a given profession and which comprises a course or courses complemented, where appropriate, by professional training, or probationary or professional practice.
The detailed application of the aptitude test and the status, in the host Member State, of the applicant who wishes to prepare himself for the aptitude test in that State shall be determined by the competent authorities in that Member State; (i) "manager of an undertaking": any person who in an undertaking in the occupational field in question has pursued an activity: (i) as a manager of an undertaking or a manager of a branch of an undertaking; or (ii) as a deputy to the proprietor or the manager of an undertaking where that post involves responsibility equivalent to that of the proprietor or manager represented; or (iii) in a managerial post with duties of a commercial and/or technical nature and with responsibility for one or more departments of the undertaking. 2.
Article 4 Effects of recognition 1.
The recognition of professional qualifications by the host Member State allows the beneficiary to gain access in that Member State to the same profession as that for which he is qualified in the home Member State and to pursue it in the host Member State under the same conditions as its nationals. 2.
TITLE II FREE PROVISION OF SERVICES Article 5 Principle of the free provision of services 1.
Without prejudice to specific provisions of Community law, as well as to Articles 6 and 7 of this Directive, Member States shall not restrict, for any reason relating to professional qualifications, the free provision of services in another Member State: (a) if the service provider is legally established in a Member State for the purpose of pursuing the same profession there (hereinafter referred to as the Member State of establishment), and (b) where the service provider moves, if he has pursued that profession in the Member State of establishment for at least two years during the 10 years preceding the provision of services when the profession is not regulated in that Member State.
Article 6 Exemptions Pursuant to Article 5(1), the host Member State shall exempt service providers established in another Member State from the requirements which it places on professionals established in its territory relating to: (a) authorisation by, registration with or membership of a professional organisation or body.
Article 7 Declaration to be made in advance, if the service provider moves 1.
Where there is a substantial difference between the professional qualifications of the service provider and the training required in the host Member State, to the extent that that difference is such as to be harmful to public health or safety, the host Member State shall give the service provider the opportunity to show, in particular by means of an aptitude test, that he has acquired the knowledge or competence lacking.
Article 8 Administrative cooperation 1.
The competent authorities of the Member State of establishment shall provide this information in accordance with the provisions of Article 56. 2.
TITLE III FREEDOM OF ESTABLISHMENT CHAPTER I General system for the recognition of evidence of training Article 10 Scope This Chapter applies to all professions which are not covered by Chapters II and III of this Title and in the following cases in which the applicant, for specific and exceptional reasons, does not satisfy the conditions laid down in those Chapters: (a) for activities listed in Annex IV, when the migrant does not meet the requirements set out in Articles 17, 18 and 19; (b) for doctors with basic training, specialised doctors, nurses responsible for general care, dental practitioners, specialised dental practitioners, veterinary surgeons, midwives, pharmacists and architects, when the migrant does not meet the requirements of effective and lawful professional practice referred to in Articles 23, 27, 33, 37, 39, 43 and 49; (c) for architects, when the migrant holds evidence of formal qualification not listed in Annex V, point 5.7; (d) without prejudice to Articles 21(1), 23 and 27, for doctors, nurses, dental practitioners, veterinary surgeons, midwives, pharmacists and architects holding evidence of formal qualifications as a specialist, which must follow the training leading to the possession of a title listed in Annex V, points 5.1.1, 5.2.2, 5.3.2, 5.4.2, 5.5.2, 5.6.2 and 5.7.1, and solely for the purpose of the recognition of the relevant specialty; (e) for nurses responsible for general care and specialised nurses holding evidence of formal qualifications as a specialist which follows the training leading to the possession of a title listed in Annex V, point 5.2.2, when the migrant seeks recognition in another Member State where the relevant professional activities are pursued by specialised nurses without training as general care nurse; (f) for specialised nurses without training as general care nurse, when the migrant seeks recognition in another Member State where the relevant professional activities are pursued by nurses responsible for general care, specialised nurses without training as general care nurse or specialised nurses holding evidence of formal qualifications as a specialist which follows the training leading to the possession of the titles listed in Annex V, point 5.2.2; (g) for migrants meeting the requirements set out in Article 3(3).
Article 11 Levels of qualification For the purpose of applying Article 13, the professional qualifications are grouped under the following levels as described below: (a) an attestation of competence issued by a competent authority in the home Member State designated pursuant to legislative, regulatory or administrative provisions of that Member State, on the basis of: (i) either a training course not forming part of a certificate or diploma within the meaning of points (b), (c), (d) or (e), or a specific examination without prior training, or full-time pursuit of the profession in a Member State for three consecutive years or for an equivalent duration on a part-time basis during the previous 10 years, (ii) or general primary or secondary education, attesting that the holder has acquired general knowledge; (b) a certificate attesting to a successful completion of a secondary course, (i) either general in character, supplemented by a course of study or professional training other than those referred to in point (c) and/or by the probationary or professional practice required in addition to that course, (ii) or technical or professional in character, supplemented where appropriate by a course of study or professional training as referred to in point (i), and/or by the probationary or professional practice required in addition to that course; (c) a diploma certifying successful completion of (i) either training at post-secondary level other than that referred to in points (d) and (e) of a duration of at least one year or of an equivalent duration on a part-time basis, one of the conditions of entry of which is, as a general rule, the successful completion of the secondary course required to obtain entry to university or higher education or the completion of equivalent school education of the second secondary level, as well as the professional training which may be required in addition to that post-secondary course; or (ii) in the case of a regulated profession, training with a special structure, included in Annex II, equivalent to the level of training provided for under (i), which provides a comparable professional standard and which prepares the trainee for a comparable level of responsibilities and functions.
The list in Annex II may be amended in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 58(2) in order to take account of training which meets the requirements provided for in the previous sentence; (d) a diploma certifying successful completion of training at post-secondary level of at least three and not more than four years' duration, or of an equivalent duration on a part-time basis, at a university or establishment of higher education or another establishment providing the same level of training, as well as the professional training which may be required in addition to that post-secondary course; (e) a diploma certifying that the holder has successfully completed a post-secondary course of at least four years' duration, or of an equivalent duration on a part-time basis, at a university or establishment of higher education or another establishment of equivalent level and, where appropriate, that he has successfully completed the professional training required in addition to the post-secondary course.
Article 12 Equal treatment of qualifications Any evidence of formal qualifications or set of evidence of formal qualifications issued by a competent authority in a Member State, certifying successful completion of training in the Community which is recognised by that Member State as being of an equivalent level and which confers on the holder the same rights of access to or pursuit of a profession or prepares for the pursuit of that profession, shall be treated as evidence of formal qualifications of the type covered by Article 11, including the level in question.
Article 13 Conditions for recognition 1.
Attestations of competence or evidence of formal qualifications shall satisfy the following conditions: (a) they shall have been issued by a competent authority in a Member State, designated in accordance with the legislative, regulatory or administrative provisions of that Member State; (b) they shall attest a level of professional qualification at least equivalent to the level immediately prior to that which is required in the host Member State, as described in Article 11. 2.
Attestations of competence and evidence of formal qualifications shall satisfy the following conditions: (a) they shall have been issued by a competent authority in a Member State, designated in accordance with the legislative, regulatory or administrative provisions of that Member State; (b) they shall attest a level of professional qualification at least equivalent to the level immediately prior to that required in the host Member State, as described in Article 11; (c) they shall attest that the holder has been prepared for the pursuit of the profession in question.
The two years' professional experience referred to in the first subparagraph may not, however, be required if the evidence of formal qualifications which the applicant possesses certifies regulated education and training within the meaning of Article 3(1)(e) at the levels of qualifications described in Article 11, points (b), (c), (d) or (e).
The list in Annex III may be amended in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 58(2) in order to take account of regulated education and training which provides a comparable professional standard and which prepares the trainee for a comparable level of responsibilities and functions. 3.
By way of derogation from paragraph 1, point (b) and to paragraph 2, point (b), the host Member State shall permit access and pursuit of a regulated profession where access to this profession is contingent in its territory upon possession of a qualification certifying successful completion of higher or university education of four years' duration, and where the applicant possesses a qualification referred to in Article 11, point (c).
Article 14 Compensation measures 1.
Article 13 does not preclude the host Member State from requiring the applicant to complete an adaptation period of up to three years or to take an aptitude test if: (a) the duration of the training of which he provides evidence under the terms of Article 13, paragraph 1 or 2, is at least one year shorter than that required by the host Member State; (b) the training he has received covers substantially different matters than those covered by the evidence of formal qualifications required in the host Member State; (c) the regulated profession in the host Member State comprises one or more regulated professional activities which do not exist in the corresponding profession in the applicant's home Member State within the meaning of Article 4(2), and that difference consists in specific training which is required in the host Member State and which covers substantially different matters from those covered by the applicant's attestation of competence or evidence of formal qualifications. 2.
If the host Member State makes use of the option provided for in paragraph 1, it must offer the applicant the choice between an adaptation period and an aptitude test.
This applies also to the cases provided for in Article 10 points (b) and (c), in Article 10 point (d) concerning doctors and dental practitioners, in Article 10 point (f) when the migrant seeks recognition in another Member State where the relevant professional activities are pursued by nurses responsible for general care or specialised nurses holding evidence of formal qualifications as a specialist which follows the training leading to the possession of the titles listed in Annex V, point 5.2.2 and in Article 10 point (g).
In the cases covered by Article 10 point (a), the host Member State may require an adaptation period or an aptitude test if the migrant envisages pursuing professional activities in a self-employed capacity or as a manager of an undertaking which require the knowledge and the application of the specific national rules in force, provided that knowledge and application of those rules are required by the competent authorities of the host Member State for access to such activities by its own nationals. 4.
For the purpose of applying paragraph 1 points (b) and (c), "substantially different matters" means matters of which knowledge is essential for pursuing the profession and with regard to which the training received by the migrant shows important differences in terms of duration or content from the training required by the host Member State. 5.
Article 15 Waiving of compensation measures on the basis of common platforms 1.
Where the applicant's professional qualifications satisfy the criteria established in the measure adopted in accordance with paragraph 2, the host Member State shall waive the application of compensation measures under Article 14. 4.
Paragraphs 1 to 3 shall not affect the competence of Member States to decide the professional qualifications required for the pursuit of professions in their territory as well as the contents and the organisation of their systems of education and professional training. 5.
If a Member State considers that the criteria established in a measure adopted in accordance with paragraph 2 no longer offer adequate guarantees with regard to professional qualifications, it shall inform the Commission accordingly, which shall, if appropriate, present a draft measure in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 58(2). 6.
The Commission shall, by 20 October 2010, submit to the European Parliament and the Council a report on the operation of this Article and, if necessary, appropriate proposals for amending this Article.
CHAPTER II Recognition of professional experience Article 16 Requirements regarding professional experience If, in a Member State, access to or pursuit of one of the activities listed in Annex IV is contingent upon possession of general, commercial or professional knowledge and aptitudes, that Member State shall recognise previous pursuit of the activity in another Member State as sufficient proof of such knowledge and aptitudes.
The activity must have been pursued in accordance with Articles 17, 18 and 19.
Article 17 Activities referred to in list I of Annex IV 1.
In cases (a) and (d), the activity must not have finished more than 10 years before the date on which the complete application was submitted by the person concerned to the competent authority referred to in Article 56. 3.
Article 18 Activities referred to in list II of Annex IV 1.
In cases (a) and (d), the activity must not have finished more than 10 years before the date on which the complete application was submitted by the person concerned to the competent authority referred to in Article 56.
Article 19 Activities referred to in list III of Annex IV 1.
In cases (a) and (c), the activity must not have finished more than 10 years before the date on which the complete application was submitted by the person concerned to the competent authority referred to in Article 56.
Article 20 Amendment of the lists of activities in Annex IV The lists of activities in Annex IV which are the subject of recognition of professional experience pursuant to Article 16 may be amended in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 58(2) with a view to updating or clarifying the nomenclature, provided that this does not involve any change in the activities related to the individual categories.
CHAPTER III Recognition on the basis of coordination of minimum training conditions Section 1 General Provisions Article 21 Principle of automatic recognition 1.
Each Member State shall recognise evidence of formal qualifications as doctor giving access to the professional activities of doctor with basic training and specialised doctor, as nurse responsible for general care, as dental practitioner, as specialised dental practitioner, as veterinary surgeon, as pharmacist and as architect, listed in Annex V, points 5.1.1, 5.1.2, 5.2.2, 5.3.2, 5.3.3, 5.4.2, 5.6.2 and 5.7.1 respectively, which satisfy the minimum training conditions referred to in Articles 24, 25, 31, 34, 35, 38, 44 and 46 respectively, and shall, for the purposes of access to and pursuit of the professional activities, give such evidence the same effect on its territory as the evidence of formal qualifications which it itself issues.
Such evidence of formal qualifications must be issued by the competent bodies in the Member States and accompanied, where appropriate, by the certificates listed in Annex V, points 5.1.1, 5.1.2, 5.2.2, 5.3.2, 5.3.3, 5.4.2, 5.6.2 and 5.7.1 respectively.
The provisions of the first and second subparagraphs do not affect the acquired rights referred to in Articles 23, 27, 33, 37, 39 and 49. 2.
The provisions of the previous subparagraph do not affect the acquired rights referred to in Article 30. 3.
Each Member State shall recognise evidence of formal qualifications as a midwife, awarded to nationals of Member States by the other Member States, listed in Annex V, point 5.5.2, which complies with the minimum training conditions referred to in Article 40 and satisfies the criteria set out in Article 41, and shall, for the purposes of access to and pursuit of the professional activities, give such evidence the same effect on its territory as the evidence of formal qualifications which it itself issues.
This provision does not affect the acquired rights referred to in Articles 23 and 43. 4.
Each Member State shall make access to and pursuit of the professional activities of doctors, nurses responsible for general care, dental practitioners, veterinary surgeons, midwives and pharmacists subject to possession of evidence of formal qualifications referred to in Annex V, points 5.1.1, 5.1.2, 5.1.4, 5.2.2, 5.3.2, 5.3.3, 5.4.2, 5.5.2 and 5.6.2 respectively, attesting that the person concerned has acquired, over the duration of his training, and where appropriate, the knowledge and skills referred to in Articles 24(3), 31(6), 34(3), 38(3), 40(3) and 44(3).
The knowledge and skills referred to in Articles 24(3), 31(6), 34(3), 38(3), 40(3) and 44(3) may be amended in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 58(2) with a view to adapting them to scientific and technical progress.
The Commission shall publish an appropriate communication in the Official Journal of the European Union, indicating the titles adopted by the Member States for evidence of formal qualifications and, where appropriate, the body which issues the evidence of formal qualifications, the certificate which accompanies it and the corresponding professional title referred to in Annex V, points 5.1.1, 5.1.2, 5.1.4, 5.2.2, 5.3.2, 5.3.3, 5.4.2, 5.5.2, 5.6.2 and 5.7.1 respectively.
Article 22 Common provisions on training With regard to the training referred to in Articles 24, 25, 28, 31, 34, 35, 38, 40, 44 and 46: (a) Member States may authorise part-time training under conditions laid down by the competent authorities; those authorities shall ensure that the overall duration, level and quality of such training is not lower than that of continuous full-time training; (b) in accordance with the procedures specific to each Member State, continuing education and training shall ensure that persons who have completed their studies are able to keep abreast of professional developments to the extent necessary to maintain safe and effective practice.
Article 23 Acquired rights 1.
Without prejudice to the acquired rights specific to the professions concerned, in cases where the evidence of formal qualifications as doctor giving access to the professional activities of doctor with basic training and specialised doctor, as nurse responsible for general care, as dental practitioner, as specialised dental practitioner, as veterinary surgeon, as midwife and as pharmacist held by Member States nationals does not satisfy all the training requirements referred to in Articles 24, 25, 31, 34, 35, 38, 40 and 44, each Member State shall recognise as sufficient proof evidence of formal qualifications issued by those Member States insofar as such evidence attests successful completion of training which began before the reference dates laid down in Annex V, points 5.1.1, 5.1.2, 5.2.2, 5.3.2, 5.3.3, 5.4.2, 5.5.2 and 5.6.2 and is accompanied by a certificate stating that the holders have been effectively and lawfully engaged in the activities in question for at least three consecutive years during the five years preceding the award of the certificate. 2.
The same provisions shall apply to evidence of formal qualifications as doctor giving access to the professional activities of doctor with basic training and specialised doctor, as nurse responsible for general care, as dental practitioner, as specialised dental practitioner, as veterinary surgeon, as midwife and as pharmacist, obtained in the territory of the former German Democratic Republic, which does not satisfy all the minimum training requirements laid down in Articles 24, 25, 31, 34, 35, 38, 40 and 44 if such evidence certifies successful completion of training which began before: (a) 3 October 1990 for doctors with basic training, nurses responsible for general care, dental practitioners with basic training, specialised dental practitioners, veterinary surgeons, midwives and pharmacists, and (b) 3 April 1992 for specialised doctors.
The evidence of formal qualifications referred to in the first subparagraph confers on the holder the right to pursue professional activities throughout German territory under the same conditions as evidence of formal qualifications issued by the competent German authorities referred to in Annex V, points 5.1.1, 5.1.2, 5.2.2, 5.3.2, 5.3.3, 5.4.2, 5.5.2 and 5.6.2. 3.
Without prejudice to the provisions of Article 37(1), each Member State shall recognise evidence of formal qualifications as doctor giving access to the professional activities of doctor with basic training and specialised doctor, as nurse responsible for general care, as veterinary surgeon, as midwife, as pharmacist and as architect held by Member States nationals and issued by the former Czechoslovakia, or whose training commenced, for the Czech Republic and Slovakia, before 1 January 1993, where the authorities of either of the two aforementioned Member States attest that such evidence of formal qualifications has the same legal validity within their territory as the evidence of formal qualifications which they issue and, with respect to architects, as the evidence of formal qualifications specified for those Member States in Annex VI, point 6, as regards access to the professional activities of doctor with basic training, specialised doctor, nurse responsible for general care, veterinary surgeon, midwife, pharmacist with respect to the activities referred to in Article 45(2), and architect with respect to the activities referred to in Article 48, and the pursuit of such activities.
Such an attestation must be accompanied by a certificate issued by those same authorities stating that such persons have effectively and lawfully been engaged in the activities in question within their territory for at least three consecutive years during the five years prior to the date of issue of the certificate. 4.
Each Member State shall recognise evidence of formal qualifications as doctor giving access to the professional activities of doctor with basic training and specialised doctor, as nurse responsible for general care, as dental practitioner, as specialised dental practitioner, as veterinary surgeon, as midwife, as pharmacist and as architect held by nationals of the Member States and issued by the former Soviet Union, or whose training commenced (a) for Estonia, before 20 August 1991, (b) for Latvia, before 21 August 1991, (c) for Lithuania, before 11 March 1990, where the authorities of any of the three aforementioned Member States attest that such evidence has the same legal validity within their territory as the evidence which they issue and, with respect to architects, as the evidence of formal qualifications specified for those Member States in Annex VI, point 6, as regards access to the professional activities of doctor with basic training, specialised doctor, nurse responsible for general care, dental practitioner, specialised dental practitioner, veterinary surgeon, midwife, pharmacist with respect to the activities referred to in Article 45(2), and architect with respect to the activities referred to in Article 48, and the pursuit of such activities.
Such an attestation must be accompanied by a certificate issued by those same authorities stating that such persons have effectively and lawfully been engaged in the activities in question within their territory for at least three consecutive years during the five years prior to the date of issue of the certificate.
With regard to evidence of formal qualifications as veterinary surgeons issued by the former Soviet Union or in respect of which training commenced, for Estonia, before 20 August 1991, the attestation referred to in the preceding subparagraph must be accompanied by a certificate issued by the Estonian authorities stating that such persons have effectively and lawfully been engaged in the activities in question within their territory for at least five consecutive years during the seven years prior to the date of issue of the certificate. 5.
Each Member State shall recognise evidence of formal qualifications as doctor giving access to the professional activities of doctor with basic training and specialised doctor, as nurse responsible for general care, as dental practitioner, as specialised dental practitioner, as veterinary surgeon, as midwife, as pharmacist and as architect held by nationals of the Member States and issued by the former Yugoslavia, or whose training commenced, for Slovenia, before 25 June 1991, where the authorities of the aforementioned Member State attest that such evidence has the same legal validity within their territory as the evidence which they issue and, with respect to architects, as the evidence of formal qualifications specified for those Member States in Annex VI, point 6, as regards access to the professional activities of doctor with basic training, specialised doctor, nurse responsible for general care, dental practitioner, specialised dental practitioner, veterinary surgeon, midwife, pharmacist with respect to the activities referred to in Article 45(2), and architect with respect to the activities referred to in Article 48, and the pursuit of such activities.
Such an attestation must be accompanied by a certificate issued by those same authorities stating that such persons have effectively and lawfully been engaged in the activities in question within their territory for at least three consecutive years during the five years prior to the date of issue of the certificate. 6.
Each Member State shall recognise as sufficient proof for Member State nationals whose evidence of formal qualifications as a doctor, nurse responsible for general care, dental practitioner, veterinary surgeon, midwife and pharmacist does not correspond to the titles given for that Member State in Annex V, points 5.1.1, 5.1.2, 5.1.3, 5.1.4, 5.2.2, 5.3.2, 5.3.3, 5.4.2, 5.5.2 and 5.6.2, evidence of formal qualifications issued by those Member States accompanied by a certificate issued by the competent authorities or bodies.
The certificate referred to in the first subparagraph shall state that the evidence of formal qualifications certifies successful completion of training in accordance with Articles 24, 25, 28, 31, 34, 35, 38, 40 and 44 respectively and is treated by the Member State which issued it in the same way as the qualifications whose titles are listed in Annex V, points 5.1.1, 5.1.2, 5.1.3, 5.1.4, 5.2.2, 5.3.2, 5.3.3, 5.4.2, 5.5.2 and 5.6.2.
Section 2 Doctors of medicine Article 24 Basic medical training 1.
Admission to basic medical training shall be contingent upon possession of a diploma or certificate providing access, for the studies in question, to universities. 2.
Basic medical training shall comprise a total of at least six years of study or 5500 hours of theoretical and practical training provided by, or under the supervision of, a university.
Article 25 Specialist medical training 1.
Specialist medical training shall comprise theoretical and practical training at a university or medical teaching hospital or, where appropriate, a medical care establishment approved for that purpose by the competent authorities or bodies.
Training shall be given under the supervision of the competent authorities or bodies.
It shall include personal participation of the trainee specialised doctor in the activity and responsibilities entailed by the services in question. 3.
The Member States shall make the issuance of evidence of specialist medical training contingent upon possession of evidence of basic medical training referred to in Annex V, point 5.1.1. 5.
Article 26 Types of specialist medical training Evidence of formal qualifications as a specialised doctor referred to in Article 21 is such evidence awarded by the competent authorities or bodies referred to in Annex V, point 5.1.2 as corresponds, for the specialised training in question, to the titles in use in the various Member States and referred to in Annex V, point 5.1.3.
The inclusion in Annex V, point 5.1.3 of new medical specialties common to at least two fifths of the Member States may be decided on in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 58(2) with a view to updating this Directive in the light of changes in national legislation.
Article 27 Acquired rights specific to specialised doctors 1.
A host Member State may require of specialised doctors whose part-time specialist medical training was governed by legislative, regulatory and administrative provisions in force as of 20 June 1975 and who began their specialist training no later than 31 December 1983 that their evidence of formal qualifications be accompanied by a certificate stating that they have been effectively and lawfully engaged in the relevant activities for at least three consecutive years during the five years preceding the award of that certificate. 2.
Every Member State shall recognise the qualification of specialised doctors awarded in Spain to doctors who completed their specialist training before 1 January 1995, even if that training does not satisfy the minimum training requirements provided for in Article 25, in so far as that qualification is accompanied by a certificate issued by the competent Spanish authorities and attesting that the person concerned has passed the examination in specific professional competence held in the context of exceptional measures concerning recognition laid down in Royal Decree 1497/99, with a view to ascertaining that the person concerned possesses a level of knowledge and skill comparable to that of doctors who possess a qualification as a specialised doctor defined for Spain in Annex V, points 5.1.2 and 5.1.3. 3.
Every Member State which has repealed its legislative, regulatory or administrative provisions relating to the award of evidence of formal qualifications as a specialised doctor referred to in Annex V, points 5.1.2 and 5.1.3 and which has adopted measures relating to acquired rights benefiting its nationals, shall grant nationals of other Member States the right to benefit from those measures, in so far as such evidence of formal qualifications was issued before the date on which the host Member State ceased to issue such evidence for the specialty in question.
Article 28 Specific training in general medical practice 1.
Admission to specific training in general medical practice shall be contingent on the completion and validation of six years of study as part of a training programme referred to in Article 24. 2.
The specific training in general medical practice leading to the award of evidence of formal qualifications issued before 1 January 2006 shall be of a duration of at least two years on a full-time basis.
Where the training programme referred to in Article 24 comprises practical training given by an approved hospital possessing appropriate general medical equipment and services or as part of an approved general medical practice or an approved centre in which doctors provide primary medical care, the duration of that practical training may, up to a maximum of one year, be included in the duration provided for in the first subparagraph for certificates of training issued on or after 1 January 2006.
The specific training in general medical practice shall be carried out on a full-time basis, under the supervision of the competent authorities or bodies.
Article 29 Pursuit of the professional activities of general practitioners Each Member State shall, subject to the provisions relating to acquired rights, make the pursuit of the activities of a general practitioner in the framework of its national social security system contingent upon possession of evidence of formal qualifications referred to in Annex V, point 5.1.4.
Article 30 Acquired rights specific to general practitioners 1.
It shall, however, confer as an acquired right the right to pursue the activities of a general practitioner in the framework of its national social security system, without the evidence of formal qualifications referred to in Annex V, point 5.1.4, on all doctors who enjoy this right as of the reference date stated in that point by virtue of provisions applicable to the medical profession giving access to the professional activities of doctor with basic training and who are established as of that date on its territory, having benefited from the provisions of Articles 21 or 23.
Every Member State shall recognise the certificates referred to in paragraph 1, second subparagraph, awarded to nationals of Member States by the other Member States, and shall give such certificates the same effect on its territory as evidence of formal qualifications which it awards and which permit the pursuit of the activities of a general practitioner in the framework of its national social security system.
Section 3 Nurses responsible for general care Article 31 Training of nurses responsible for general care 1.
Admission to training for nurses responsible for general care shall be contingent upon completion of general education of 10 years, as attested by a diploma, certificate or other evidence issued by the competent authorities or bodies in a Member State or by a certificate attesting success in an examination, of an equivalent level, for admission to a school of nursing. 2.
The content listed in Annex V, point 5.2.1 may be amended in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 58(2) with a view to adapting it to scientific and technical progress.
The training of nurses responsible for general care shall comprise at least three years of study or 4600 hours of theoretical and clinical training, the duration of the theoretical training representing at least one-third and the duration of the clinical training at least one half of the minimum duration of the training.
This training shall take place in hospitals and other health institutions and in the community, under the responsibility of nursing teachers, in cooperation with and assisted by other qualified nurses.
Article 32 Pursuit of the professional activities of nurses responsible for general care For the purposes of this Directive, the professional activities of nurses responsible for general care are the activities pursued on a professional basis and referred to in Annex V, point 5.2.2.
Article 33 Acquired rights specific to nurses responsible for general care 1.
Where the general rules of acquired rights apply to nurses responsible for general care, the activities referred to in Article 23 must have included full responsibility for the planning, organisation and administration of nursing care delivered to the patient. 2.
In the case of nationals of the Member States whose evidence of formal qualifications as nurse responsible for general care was awarded by, or whose training started in, Poland before 1 May 2004 and who do not satisfy the minimum training requirements laid down in Article 31, Member States shall recognise the following evidence of formal qualifications as nurse responsible for general care as being sufficient proof if accompanied by a certificate stating that those Member State nationals have effectively and lawfully been engaged in the activities of a nurse responsible for general care in Poland for the period specified below: (a) evidence of formal qualifications as a nurse at degree level (dyplom licencjata pielęgniarstwa) — at least three consecutive years during the five years prior to the date of issue of the certificate, (b) evidence of formal qualifications as a nurse certifying completion of post-secondary education obtained from a medical vocational school (dyplom pielęgniarki albo pielęgniarki dyplomowanej) — at least five consecutive years during the seven years prior to the date of issue of the certificate.
Member States shall recognise evidence of formal qualifications in nursing awarded in Poland, to nurses who completed training before 1 May 2004, which did not comply with the minimum training requirements laid down in Article 31, attested by the diploma "bachelor" which has been obtained on the basis of a special upgrading programme contained in Article 11 of the Act of 20 April 2004 on the amendment of the Act on professions of nurse and midwife and on some other legal acts (Official Journal of the Republic of Poland of 30 April 2004 No 92, pos. 885), and the Regulation of the Minister of Health of 11 May 2004 on the detailed conditions of delivering studies for nurses and midwives, who hold a certificate of secondary school (final examination — matura) and are graduates of medical lyceum and medical vocational schools teaching in a profession of a nurse and a midwife (Official Journal of the Republic of Poland of 13 May 2004 No 110, pos. 1170), with the aim of verifying that the person concerned has a level of knowledge and competence comparable to that of nurses holding the qualifications which, in the case of Poland, are defined in Annex V, point 5.2.2.
Admission to basic dental training presupposes possession of a diploma or certificate giving access, for the studies in question, to universities or higher institutes of a level recognised as equivalent, in a Member State. 2.
Basic dental training shall comprise a total of at least five years of full-time theoretical and practical study, comprising at least the programme described in Annex V, point 5.3.1 and given in a university, in a higher institute providing training recognised as being of an equivalent level or under the supervision of a university.
The content listed in Annex V, point 5.3.1 may be amended in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 58(2) with a view to adapting it to scientific and technical progress.
Admission to specialist dental training shall entail the completion and validation of five years of theoretical and practical instruction within the framework of the training referred to in Article 34, or possession of the documents referred to in Articles 23 and 37. 2.
Specialist dental training shall comprise theoretical and practical instruction in a university centre, in a treatment teaching and research centre or, where appropriate, in a health establishment approved for that purpose by the competent authorities or bodies.
The minimum period of training referred to in the second subparagraph may be amended in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 58(2) with a view to adapting it to scientific and technical progress. 3.
Article 36 Pursuit of the professional activities of dental practitioners 1.
For the purposes of this Directive, the professional activities of dental practitioners are the activities defined in paragraph 3 and pursued under the professional qualifications listed in Annex V, point 5.3.2. 2.
The profession of dental practitioner shall be based on dental training referred to in Article 34 and shall constitute a specific profession which is distinct from other general or specialised medical professions.
Holders of such evidence of formal qualifications shall be treated in the same way as those to whom Articles 23 or 37 apply. 3.
Article 37 Acquired rights specific to dental practitioners 1.
The certificate must show that the two following conditions are met: (a) that the persons in question have been effectively, lawfully and principally engaged in that Member State in the activities referred to in Article 36 for at least three consecutive years during the five years preceding the award of the certificate; (b) that those persons are authorised to pursue the said activities under the same conditions as holders of evidence of formal qualifications listed for that Member State in Annex V, point 5.3.2.
Each Member State shall recognise evidence of formal qualifications as a doctor issued in Italy to persons who began their university medical training after 28 January 1980 and no later than 31 December 1984, accompanied by a certificate issued by the competent Italian authorities.
The certificate must show that the three following conditions are met: (a) that the persons in question passed the relevant aptitude test held by the competent Italian authorities with a view to establishing that those persons possess a level of knowledge and skills comparable to that of persons possessing evidence of formal qualifications listed for Italy in Annex V, point 5.3.2; (b) that they have been effectively, lawfully and principally engaged in the activities referred to in Article 36 in Italy for at least three consecutive years during the five years preceding the award of the certificate; (c) that they are authorised to engage in or are effectively, lawfully and principally engaged in the activities referred to in Article 36, under the same conditions as the holders of evidence of formal qualifications listed for Italy in Annex V, point 5.3.2.
Persons who began their university medical training after 31 December 1984 shall be treated in the same way as those referred to above, provided that the abovementioned three years of study began before 31 December 1994.
Section 5 Veterinary surgeons Article 38 The training of veterinary surgeons 1.
The content listed in Annex V, point 5.4.1 may be amended in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 58(2) with a view to adapting it to scientific and technical progress.
Admission to veterinary training shall be contingent upon possession of a diploma or certificate entitling the holder to enter, for the studies in question, university establishments or institutes of higher education recognised by a Member State to be of an equivalent level for the purpose of the relevant study. 3.
Article 39 Acquired rights specific to veterinary surgeons Without prejudice to Article 23(4), with regard to nationals of Member States whose evidence of formal qualifications as a veterinary surgeon was issued by, or whose training commenced in, Estonia before 1 May 2004, Member States shall recognise such evidence of formal qualifications as a veterinary surgeon if it is accompanied by a certificate stating that such persons have effectively and lawfully been engaged in the activities in question in Estonia for at least five consecutive years during the seven years prior to the date of issue of the certificate.
Section 6 Midwives Article 40 The training of midwives 1.
The training of midwives shall comprise a total of at least: (a) specific full-time training as a midwife comprising at least three years of theoretical and practical study (route I) comprising at least the programme described in Annex V, point 5.5.1, or (b) specific full-time training as a midwife of 18 months' duration (route II), comprising at least the study programme described in Annex V, point 5.5.1, which was not the subject of equivalent training of nurses responsible for general care.
The content listed in Annex V, point 5.5.1 may be amended in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 58(2) with a view to adapting it to scientific and technical progress.
Access to training as a midwife shall be contingent upon one of the following conditions: (a) completion of at least the first 10 years of general school education for route I, or (b) possession of evidence of formal qualifications as a nurse responsible for general care referred to in Annex V, point 5.2.2 for route II. 3.
Article 41 Procedures for the recognition of evidence of formal qualifications as a midwife 1.
The evidence of formal qualifications as a midwife referred to in Annex V, point 5.5.2 shall be subject to automatic recognition pursuant to Article 21 in so far as they satisfy one of the following criteria: (a) full-time training of at least three years as a midwife: (i) either made contingent upon possession of a diploma, certificate or other evidence of qualification giving access to universities or higher education institutes, or otherwise guaranteeing an equivalent level of knowledge; or (ii) followed by two years of professional practice for which a certificate has been issued in accordance with paragraph 2; (b) full-time training as a midwife of at least two years or 3600 hours, contingent upon possession of evidence of formal qualifications as a nurse responsible for general care referred to in Annex V, point 5.2.2; (c) full-time training as a midwife of at least 18 months or 3000 hours, contingent upon possession of evidence of formal qualifications as a nurse responsible for general care referred to in Annex V, point 5.2.2 and followed by one year's professional practice for which a certificate has been issued in accordance with paragraph 2. 2.
Article 42 Pursuit of the professional activities of a midwife 1.
Article 43 Acquired rights specific to midwives 1.
Every Member State shall, in the case of Member State nationals whose evidence of formal qualifications as a midwife satisfies all the minimum training requirements laid down in Article 40 but, by virtue of Article 41, is not recognised unless it is accompanied by a certificate of professional practice referred to in Article 41(2), recognise as sufficient proof evidence of formal qualifications issued by those Member States before the reference date referred to in Annex V, point 5.5.2, accompanied by a certificate stating that those nationals have been effectively and lawfully engaged in the activities in question for at least two consecutive years during the five years preceding the award of the certificate. 2.
The conditions laid down in paragraph 1 shall apply to the nationals of Member States whose evidence of formal qualifications as a midwife certifies completion of training received in the territory of the former German Democratic Republic and satisfying all the minimum training requirements laid down in Article 40 but where the evidence of formal qualifications, by virtue of Article 41, is not recognised unless it is accompanied by the certificate of professional experience referred to in Article 41(2), where it attests a course of training which began before 3 October 1990. 3.
Member States shall recognise evidence of formal qualifications in midwifery awarded in Poland, to midwives who completed training before 1 May 2004, which did not comply with the minimum training requirements laid down in Article 40, attested by the diploma "bachelor" which has been obtained on the basis of a special upgrading programme contained in Article 11 of the Act of 20 April 2004 on the amendment of the Act on professions of nurse and midwife and on some other legal acts (Official Journal of the Republic of Poland of 30 April 2004 No 92, pos. 885), and the Regulation of the Minister of Health of 11 May 2004 on the detailed conditions of delivering studies for nurses and midwives, who hold a certificate of secondary school (final examination — matura) and are graduates of medical lyceum and medical vocational schools teaching in a profession of a nurse and a midwife (Official Journal of the Republic of Poland of 13 May 2004 No 110, pos 1170), with the aim of verifying that the person concerned has a level of knowledge and competence comparable to that of midwives holding the qualifications which, in the case of Poland, are defined in Annex V, point 5.5.2.
Section 7 Pharmacist Article 44 Training as a pharmacist 1.
Admission to a course of training as a pharmacist shall be contingent upon possession of a diploma or certificate giving access, in a Member State, to the studies in question, at universities or higher institutes of a level recognised as equivalent. 2.
The contents listed in Annex V, point 5.6.1 may be amended in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 58(2) with a view to adapting them to scientific and technical progress.
Article 45 Pursuit of the professional activities of a pharmacist 1.
For the purposes of this Directive, the activities of a pharmacist are those, access to which and pursuit of which are contingent, in one or more Member States, upon professional qualifications and which are open to holders of evidence of formal qualifications of the types listed in Annex V, point 5.6.2. 2.
If a Member State makes access to or pursuit of one of the activities of a pharmacist contingent upon supplementary professional experience, in addition to possession of evidence of formal qualifications referred to in Annex V, point 5.6.2, that Member State shall recognise as sufficient proof in this regard a certificate issued by the competent authorities in the home Member State stating that the person concerned has been engaged in those activities in the home Member State for a similar period. 4.
The recognition referred to in paragraph 3 shall not apply with regard to the two-year period of professional experience required by the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg for the grant of a State public pharmacy concession. 5.
Section 8 Architect Article 46 Training of architects 1.
The knowledge and skills listed in paragraph 1 may be amended in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 58(2) with a view to adapting them to scientific and technical progress.
Article 47 Derogations from the conditions for the training of architects 1.
That certificate shall be awarded in line with the same procedure as that applying to registration in the professional association's roll. 2.
Article 48 Pursuit of the professional activities of architects 1.
Article 49 Acquired rights specific to architects 1.
Each Member State shall accept evidence of formal qualifications as an architect listed in Annex VI, point 6, awarded by the other Member States, and attesting a course of training which began no later than the reference academic year referred to in that Annex, even if they do not satisfy the minimum requirements laid down in Article 46, and shall, for the purposes of access to and pursuit of the professional activities of an architect, give such evidence the same effect on its territory as evidence of formal qualifications as an architect which it itself issues.
Under these circumstances, certificates issued by the competent authorities of the Federal Republic of Germany attesting that evidence of formal qualifications issued on or after 8 May 1945 by the competent authorities of the German Democratic Republic is equivalent to such evidence listed in that Annex, shall be recognised. 2.
CHAPTER IV Common provisions on establishment Article 50 Documentation and formalities 1.
Where the competent authorities of the host Member State decide on an application for authorisation to pursue the regulated profession in question by virtue of this Title, those authorities may demand the documents and certificates listed in Annex VII.
In the event of justified doubts, the host Member State may require from the competent authorities of a Member State confirmation of the authenticity of the attestations and evidence of formal qualifications awarded in that other Member State, as well as, where applicable, confirmation of the fact that the beneficiary fulfils, for the professions referred to in Chapter III of this Title, the minimum training conditions set out respectively in Articles 24, 25, 28, 31, 34, 35, 38, 40, 44 and 46. 3.
In cases of justified doubt, where evidence of formal qualifications, as defined in Article 3(1)(c), has been issued by a competent authority in a Member State and includes training received in whole or in part in an establishment legally established in the territory of another Member State, the host Member State shall be entitled to verify with the competent body in the Member State of origin of the award: (a) whether the training course at the establishment which gave the training has been formally certified by the educational establishment based in the Member State of origin of the award; (b) whether the evidence of formal qualifications issued is the same as that which would have been awarded if the course had been followed entirely in the Member State of origin of the award; and (c) whether the evidence of formal qualifications confers the same professional rights in the territory of the Member State of origin of the award. 4.
Article 51 Procedure for the mutual recognition of professional qualifications 1.
The competent authority of the host Member State shall acknowledge receipt of the application within one month of receipt and inform the applicant of any missing document. 2.
However, this deadline may be extended by one month in cases falling under Chapters I and II of this Title. 3.
Article 52 Use of professional titles 1.
If, in a host Member State, the use of a professional title relating to one of the activities of the profession in question is regulated, nationals of the other Member States who are authorised to practise a regulated profession on the basis of Title III shall use the professional title of the host Member State, which corresponds to that profession in that Member State, and make use of any associated initials. 2.
Where a profession is regulated in the host Member State by an association or organisation within the meaning of Article 3(2), nationals of Member States shall not be authorised to use the professional title issued by that organisation or association, or its abbreviated form, unless they furnish proof that they are members of that association or organisation.
If the association or organisation makes membership contingent upon certain qualifications, it may do so, only under the conditions laid down in this Directive, in respect of nationals of other Member States who possess professional qualifications.
TITLE IV DETAILED RULES FOR PURSUING THE PROFESSION Article 53 Knowledge of languages Persons benefiting from the recognition of professional qualifications shall have a knowledge of languages necessary for practising the profession in the host Member State.
Article 54 Use of academic titles Without prejudice to Articles 7 and 52, the host Member State shall ensure that the right shall be conferred on the persons concerned to use academic titles conferred on them in the home Member State, and possibly an abbreviated form thereof, in the language of the home Member State.
Article 55 Approval by health insurance funds Without prejudice to Article 5(1) and Article 6, first subparagraph, point (b), Member States which require persons who acquired their professional qualifications in their territory to complete a preparatory period of in-service training and/or a period of professional experience in order to be approved by a health insurance fund, shall waive this obligation for the holders of evidence of professional qualifications of doctor and dental practitioner acquired in other Member States.
TITLE V ADMINISTRATIVE COOPERATION AND RESPONSIBILITY FOR IMPLEMENTATION Article 56 Competent authorities 1.
The competent authorities of the host Member State and of the home Member State shall work in close collaboration and shall provide mutual assistance in order to facilitate application of this Directive.
Each Member State shall, no later than 20 October 2007, designate the authorities and bodies competent to award or receive evidence of formal qualifications and other documents or information, and those competent to receive applications and take the decisions referred to in this Directive, and shall forthwith inform the other Member States and the Commission thereof. 4.
Article 58 Committee on the recognition of professional qualifications 1.
Article 61 Derogation clause If, for the application of one of the provisions of this Directive, a Member State encounters major difficulties in a particular area, the Commission shall examine those difficulties in collaboration with the Member State concerned.
Article 62 Repeal Directives 77/452/EEC, 77/453/EEC, 78/686/EEC, 78/687/EEC, 78/1026/EEC, 78/1027/EEC, 80/154/EEC, 80/155/EEC, 85/384/EEC, 85/432/EEC, 85/433/EEC, 89/48/EEC, 92/51/EEC, 93/16/EEC and 1999/42/EC are repealed with effect from 20 October 2007.
Article 64 Entry into force This Directive shall enter into force on the 20th day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Article 65 Addressees This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Strasbourg, 7 September 2005.
Borrell Fontelles For the Council The President C.
Clarke [1] OJ C 181 E, 30.7.2002, p. 183. [2] OJ C 61, 14.3.2003, p. 67. [3] Opinion of the European Parliament of 11 February 2004 (OJ C 97 E, 22.4.2004, p. 230), Council Common Position of 21 December 2004 (OJ C 58 E, 8.3.2005, p. 1) and Position of the European Parliament of 11 May 2005 (not yet published in the Official Journal).
Council Decision of 6 June 2005. [4] OJ L 178, 17.7.2000, p. 1. [5] OJ L 19, 24.1.1989, p. 16.
Directive as amended by Directive 2001/19/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 206, 31.7.2001, p. 1). [6] OJ L 209, 24.7.1992, p. 25.
Directive as last amended by Commission Decision 2004/108/EC (OJ L 32, 5.2.2004, p. 15). [7] OJ L 201, 31.7.1999, p. 77. [8] OJ L 176, 15.7.1977, p. 1.
Directive as last amended by the 2003 Act of Accession. [9] OJ L 176, 15.7.1977, p. 8.
Directive as last amended by Directive 2001/19/EC. [10] OJ L 233, 24.8.1978, p. 1.
Directive as last amended by the 2003 Act of Accession. [11] OJ L 233, 24.8.1978, p. 10.
Directive as last amended by the 2003 Act of Accession. [12] OJ L 362, 23.12.1978, p. 1.
Directive as last amended by Directive 2001/19/EC. [13] OJ L 362, 23.12.1978, p. 7.
Directive as last amended by Directive 2001/19/EC. [14] OJ L 33, 11.2.1980, p. 1.
Directive as last amended by the 2003 Act of Accession. [15] OJ L 33, 11.2.1980, p. 8.
Directive as last amended by Directive 2001/19/EC. [16] OJ L 223, 21.8.1985, p. 15.
Directive as last amended by the 2003 Act of Accession. [17] OJ L 253, 24.9.1985, p. 34.
Directive as amended by Directive 2001/19/EC. [18] OJ L 253, 24.9.1985, p. 37.
Directive as last amended by the 2003 Act of Accession. [19] OJ L 165, 7.7.1993, p. 1.
Directive as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 1882/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 284, 31.10.2003, p. 1). [20] OJ L 184, 17.7.1999, p. 23. [21] OJ L 78, 26.3.1977, p. 17.
Directive as last amended by the 2003 Act of Accession. [22] OJ L 77, 14.3.1998, p. 36.
Directive as amended by the 2003 Act of Accession. [23] OJ L 145, 13.6.1977, p. 1.
Directive as last amended by Directive 2004/66/EC (OJ L 168, 1.5.2004, p. 35). [24] OJ L 281, 23.11.1995, p. 31.
Directive as amended by Regulation (EC) No 1882/2003. [25] OJ L 201, 31.07.2002, p. 37. -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX I List of professional associations or organisations fulfilling the conditions of Article 3(2) IRELAND [1] 1.
Irish Planning Institute UNITED KINGDOM 1.
Seafaring sector (a) Sea transport Training for the following: in the Czech Republic: - deck assistant (palubní asistent), - officer in charge of a navigational watch (námořní poručík), - chief mate (první palubní důstojník), - master (kapitán), - engine assistant (strojní asistent), - officer in charge of an engineering watch (strojní důstojník), - second engineer officer (druhý strojní důstojník), - chief engineer officer (první strojní důstojník), - electrician (elektrotechnik), - chief electric officer (elektrodůstojník); in Denmark: - ship's captain (skibsfører), - first mate (overstyrmand), - quartermaster, deck officer (enestyrmand, vagthavende styrmand), - deck officer (vagthavende styrmand), - engineer (maskinchef), - first engineer (l.
approved seagoing service in the capacity of electrician for a period of not less than 12 months in the case of a graduate of an academy or college, or 24 months in the case of a graduate of a secondary school; - in Denmark, of nine years' primary schooling followed by a course of basic training and/or service at sea of between 17 and 36 months, supplemented by: (i) for the deck officer, one year of specialised vocational training, (ii) for the others, three years of specialised vocational training. - in Germany, of a total duration of between 14 and 18 years, including a three-year course of basic vocational training and one year's service at sea, followed by one or two years of specialised vocational training supplemented, where appropriate, by two year's work experience in navigation; - in Latvia: (i) for electrical engineer officer on ships (kuģu elektromehāniķis), 1.
Vocational training is completed by a special examination by the competent authority in accordance with the training programme as approved by the Ministry of Transport; (ii) for operator of refrigeration machinery (kuģa saldēšanas iekārtu mašīnists), 1.
United Kingdom courses accredited as national vocational qualifications or Scottish vocational qualifications Training for: - listed veterinary nurse, - mine electrical engineer, - mine mechanical engineer, - dental therapist, - dental hygienist, - dispensing optician, - mine deputy, - insolvency practitioner, - licensed conveyancer, - first mate — freight/passenger ships — unrestricted, - second mate — freight/passenger ships — unrestricted, - third mate — freight/passenger ships unrestricted, - deck officer — freight/passenger ships — unrestricted, - engineer officer — freight/passenger ships — unlimited trading area, - certified technically competent person in waste management, leading to qualifications accredited as national vocational qualifications (NVQs) or, in Scotland, accredited as Scottish vocational qualifications, at levels 3 and 4 of the United Kingdom National Framework of Vocational Qualifications.
There is considerable responsibility and autonomy, and control or guidance of others is often required, - level 4: Competence in a broad range of complex, technical or professional work activities performed in a wide variety of contexts and with a substantial degree of personal responsibility and autonomy.
Nevertheless, the members of the profession who obtained their diplomas before that date may, if they wish, continue to use the earlier title of "Krankengymnast(in)". -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX III List of regulated education and training referred to in the third subparagraph of Article 13(2) In the United Kingdom: Regulated courses leading to qualifications accredited as National Vocational Qualifications (NVQs) or, in Scotland, accredited as Scottish Vocational Qualifications, at levels 3 and 4 of the United Kingdom National Framework of Vocational Qualifications.
There is considerable responsibility and autonomy, and control or guidance of others is often required. - Level 4: competence in a broad range of complex, technical or professional work activities performed in a wide variety of contexts and with a substantial degree of personal responsibility and autonomy.
Activities of self-employed persons in wholesale trade, with the exception of wholesale trade in medicinal and pharmaceutical products, in toxic products and pathogens and in coal (ex Group 611). 2.
Evidence of formal qualifications in basic medical training Country | Evidence of formal qualifications | Body awarding the qualifications | Certificate accompanying the qualifications | Reference date | België/Belgique/ Belgien | Diploma van arts/Diplôme de docteur en médecine | Les universités/De universiteitenLe Jury compétent d'enseignement de la Communauté française/De bevoegde Examencommissie van de Vlaamse Gemeenschap | | 20 December 1976 | Česká republika | Diplom o ukončení studia ve studijním programu všeobecné lékařství (doktor medicíny, MUDr.) | Lékářská fakulta univerzity v České republice | Vysvědčení o státní rigorózní zkoušce | 1 May 2004 | Danmark | Bevis for bestået lægevidenskabelig embedseksamen | Medicinsk universitetsfakultet | Autorisation som læge, udstedt af Sundhedsstyrelsen ogTilladelse til selvstændigt virke som læge (dokumentation for gennemført praktisk uddannelse), udstedt af Sundhedsstyrelsen | 20 December 1976 | Deutschland | Zeugnis über die Ärztliche PrüfungZeugnis über die Ärztliche Staatsprüfung und Zeugnis über die Vorbereitungszeit als Medizinalassistent, soweit diese nach den deutschen Rechtsvorschriften noch für den Abschluss der ärztlichen Ausbildung vorgesehen war | Zuständige Behörden | | 20 December 1976 | Eesti | Diplom arstiteaduse õppekava läbimise kohta | Tartu Ülikool | | 1 May 2004 | Ελλάς | Πτυχίo Iατρικής | Iατρική Σχoλή Παvεπιστημίoυ,Σχoλή Επιστημώv Υγείας, Τμήμα Iατρικής Παvεπιστημίoυ | | 1 January 1981 | España | Título de Licenciado en Medicina y Cirugía | Ministerio de Educación y CulturaEl rector de una Universidad | | 1 January 1986 | France | Diplôme d'Etat de docteur en médecine | Universités | | 20 December 1976 | Ireland | Primary qualification | Competent examining body | Certificate of experience | 20 December 1976 | Italia | Diploma di laurea in medicina e chirurgia | Università | Diploma di abilitazione all'esercizio della medicina e chirurgia | 20 December 1976 | Κύπρος | Πιστοποιητικό Εγγραφής Ιατρού | Ιατρικό Συμβούλιο | | 1 May 2004 | Latvija | ārsta diploms | Universitātes tipa augstskola | | 1 May 2004 | Lietuva | Aukštojo mokslo diplomas, nurodantis suteiktą gydytojo kvalifikaciją | Universitetas | Internatūros pažymėjimas, nurodantis suteiktą medicinos gydytojo profesinę kvalifikaciją | 1 May 2004 | Luxembourg | Diplôme d'Etat de docteur en médecine, chirurgie et accouchements, | Jury d'examen d'Etat | Certificat de stage | 20 December 1976 | Magyarország | Általános orvos oklevél (doctor medicinae univer- sae, röv.: dr.
univ.) | Egyetem | | 1 May 2004 | Malta | Lawrja ta' Tabib tal-Medi- ċina u l-Kirurġija | Universita` ta' Malta | Ċertifikat ta' reġistrazzjoni maħruġ mill-Kunsill Mediku | 1 May 2004 | Nederland | Getuigschrift van met goed gevolg afgelegd artsexamen | Faculteit Geneeskunde | | 20 December 1976 | Österreich | 1.Urkunde über die Verleihung des akademischen Grades Doktor der gesamten Heilkunde (bzw.
Doctor medicinae universae, Dr.med.univ.) | 1.Medizinische Fakultät einer Universität | | 1 January 1994 | 2.Diplom über die spezifische Ausbildung zum Arzt für Allgemeinmedizin bzw.
Facharztdiplom | 2.Österreichische Ärztekammer | Polska | Dyplom ukończenia studiów wyższych na kierunku lekarskim z tytułem "lekarza" | 1.Akademia Medyczna2.Uniwersytet Medyczny3.Collegium Medicum Uniwersytetu Jagiellońskiego | Lekarski Egzamin Państwowy | 1 May 2004 | Portugal | Carta de Curso de licenciatura em medicina | Universidades | Diploma comprovativo da conclusão do internato geral emitido pelo Ministério da Saúde | 1 January 1986 | Slovenija | Diploma, s katero se podeljuje strokovni naslov "doktor medicine/doktorica medicine" | Univerza | | 1 May 2004 | Slovensko | Vysokoškolský diplom o udelení akademického titulu "doktor medicíny" ("MUDr.") | Vysoká škola | | 1 May 2004 | Suomi/ Finland | Lääketieteen lisensiaatin tutkinto/Medicine licentiatexamen | Helsingin yliopisto/Helsingfors universitetKuopion yliopistoOulun yliopistoTampereen yliopistoTurun yliopisto | Todistus lääkärin perusterveydenhuollon lisäkoulutuksesta/Examenbevis om tilläggsutbildning för läkare inom primärvården | 1 January 1994 | Sverige | Läkarexamen | Universitet | Bevis om praktisk utbildning som utfärdas av Socialstyrelsen | 1 January 1994 | United Kingdom | Primary qualification | Competent examining body | Certificate of experience | 20 December 1976 | 5.1.2.
Evidence of formal qualifications of specialised doctors Country | Evidence of formal qualifications | Body awarding the qualifications | Reference date | België/Belgique/ Belgien | Bijzondere beroepstitel van geneesheer-specialist/Titre professionnel particulier de médecin spécialiste | Minister bevoegd voor Volksgezondheid/Ministre de la Santé publique | 20 December 1976 | Česká republika | Diplom o specializaci | Ministerstvo zdravotnictví | 1 May 2004 | Danmark | Bevis for tilladelse til at betegne sig som speciallæge | Sundhedsstyrelsen | 20 December 1976 | Deutschland | Fachärztliche Anerkennung | Landesärztekammer | 20 December 1976 | Eesti | Residentuuri lõputunnistus eriarstiabi erialal | Tartu Ülikool | 1 May 2004 | Ελλάς | Τίτλoς Iατρικής Ειδικότητας | 1.Νoμαρχιακή Αυτoδιoίκηση | 1 January 1981 | 2.Νoμαρχία | España | Título de Especialista | Ministerio de Educación y Cultura | 1 January 1986 | France | 1.Certificat d'études spéciales de médecine | 1.Universités | 20 December 1976 | 2.Attestation de médecin spécialiste qualifié | 2.Conseil de l'Ordre des médecins | 3.Certificat d'études spéciales de médecine | 3.Universités | 4.Diplôme d'études spécialisées ou spécialisation complémentaire qualifiante de médecine | 4.Universités | Ireland | Certificate of Specialist doctor | Competent authority | 20 December 1976 | Italia | Diploma di medico specialista | Università | 20 December 1976 | Κύπρος | Πιστοποιητικό Αναγνώρισης Ειδικότητας | Ιατρικό Συμβούλιο | 1 May 2004 | Latvija | "Sertifikāts"—kompetentu iestāžu izsniegts dokuments, kas apliecina, ka persona ir nokārtojusi sertifikācijas eksāmenu specialitātē | Latvijas Ārstu biedrība Latvijas Ārstniecības personu profesionālo organizāciju savienība | 1 May 2004 | Lietuva | Rezidentūros pažymėjimas, nurodantis suteiktą gydytojo specialisto profesinę kvalifikaciją | Universitetas | 1 May 2004 | Luxembourg | Certificat de médecin spécialiste | Ministre de la Santé publique | 20 December 1976 | Magyarország | Szakorvosi bizonyítvány | Az Egészségügyi, Szociális és Családügyi Minisztérium illetékes testülete | 1 May 2004 | Malta | Ċertifikat ta' Speċjalista Mediku | Kumitat ta' Approvazzjoni dwar Speċjalisti | 1 May 2004 | Nederland | Bewijs van inschrijving in een Specialistenregister | Medisch Specialisten Registratie Commissie (MSRC) van de Koninklijke Nederlandsche Maatschappij tot Bevordering der GeneeskunstSociaal-Geneeskundigen Registratie Commissie van de Koninklijke Nederlandsche Maatschappij tot Bevordering der Geneeskunst | 20 December 1976 | Österreich | Facharztdiplom | Österreichische Ärztekammer | 1 January 1994 | Polska | Dyplom uzyskania tytułu specjalisty | Centrum Egzaminów Medycznych | 1 May 2004 | Portugal | 1.Grau de assistente | 1.Ministério da Saúde | 1 January 1986 | 2.Titulo de especialista | 2.Ordem dos Médicos | Slovenija | Potrdilo o opravljenem specialističnem izpitu | 1.Ministrstvo za zdravje | 1 May 2004 | 2.Zdravniška zbornica Slovenije | Slovensko | Diplom o špecializácii | Slovenská zdravotnícka univerzita | 1 May 2004 | Suomi/ Finland | Erikoislääkärin tutkinto/Specialläkarexamen | 1.Helsingin yliopisto/Helsingfors universitet | 1 January 1994 | 2.Kuopion yliopisto | 3.Oulun yliopisto | 4.Tampereen yliopisto | 5.Turun yliopisto | Sverige | Bevis om specialkompetens som läkare, utfärdat av Socialstyrelsen | Socialstyrelsen | 1 January 1994 | United Kingdom | Certificate of Completion of specialist training | Competent authority | 20 December 1976 | 5.1.3.
Titles of training courses in specialised medicine Country | Anaesthetics Minimum period of training: 3 years | General surgery Minimum period of training: 5 years | Title | Title | Belgique/België/Belgien | Anesthésie-réanimation/Anesthesie reanimatie | Chirurgie/Heelkunde | Česká republika | Anesteziologie a resuscitace | Chirurgie | Danmark | Anæstesiologi | Kirurgi elsler kirurgiske sygdomme | Deutschland | Anästhesiologie | (Allgemeine) Chirurgie | Eesti | Anestesioloogia | Üldkirurgia | Ελλάς | Αvαισθησιoλoγία | Χειρoυργική | España | Anestesiología y Reanimación | Cirugía general y del aparato digestivo | France | Anesthésiologie-Réanimation chirurgicale | Chirurgie générale | Ireland | Anaesthesia | General surgery | Italia | Anestesia e rianimazione | Chirurgia generale | Κύπρος | Αναισθησιολογία | Γενική Χειρουργική | Latvija | Anestezioloģija un reanimatoloģija | Ķirurģija | Lietuva | Anesteziologija reanimatologija | Chirurgija | Luxembourg | Anesthésie-réanimation | Chirurgie générale | Magyarország | Aneszteziológia és intenzív terápia | Sebészet | Malta | Anesteżija u Kura Intensiva | Kirurġija Ġenerali | Nederland | Anesthesiologie | Heelkunde | Österreich | Anästhesiologie und Intensivmedizin | Chirurgie | Polska | Anestezjologia i intensywna terapia | Chirurgia ogólna | Portugal | Anestesiologia | Cirurgia geral | Slovenija | Anesteziologija, reanimatologija in perioperativna intenzivna medicina | Splošna kirurgija | Slovensko | Anestéziológia a intenzívna medicína | Chirurgia | Suomi/Finland | Anestesiologia ja tehohoito/Anestesiologi och intensivvård | Yleiskirurgia/Allmän kirurgi | Sverige | Anestesi och intensivvård | Kirurgi | United Kingdom | Anaesthetics | General surgery | Country | Neurological surgery Minimum period of training: 5 years | Obstetrics and Gynaecology Minimum period of training: 4 years | Title | Title | Belgique/België/ Belgien | Neurochirurgie | Gynécologie — obstétrique/Gynaecologie en verloskunde | Česká republika | Neurochirurgie | Gynekologie a porodnictví | Danmark | Neurokirurgi eller kirurgiske nervesygdomme | Gynækologi og obstetrik eller kvindesygdomme og fødselshjælp | Deutschland | Neurochirurgie | Frauenheilkunde und Geburtshilfe | Eesti | Neurokirurgia | Sünnitusabi ja günekoloogia | Ελλάς | Νευρoχειρoυργική | Μαιευτική-Γυvαικoλoγία | España | Neurocirugía | Obstetricia y ginecología | France | Neurochirurgie | Gynécologie — obstétrique | Ireland | Neurosurgery | Obstetrics and gynaecology | Italia | Neurochirurgia | Ginecologia e ostetricia | Κύπρος | Νευροχειρουργική | Μαιευτική — Γυναικολογία | Latvija | Neiroķirurģija | Ginekoloģija un dzemdniecība | Lietuva | Neurochirurgija | Akušerija ginekologija | Luxembourg | Neurochirurgie | Gynécologie — obstétrique | Magyarország | Idegsebészet | Szülészet-nőgyógyászat | Malta | Newrokirurġija | Ostetriċja u Ġinekoloġija | Nederland | Neurochirurgie | Verloskunde en gynaecologie | Österreich | Neurochirurgie | Frauenheilkunde und Geburtshilfe | Polska | Neurochirurgia | Położnictwo i ginekologia | Portugal | Neurocirurgia | Ginecologia e obstetricia | Slovenija | Nevrokirurgija | Ginekologija in porodništvo | Slovensko | Neurochirurgia | Gynekológia a pôrodníctvo | Suomi/Finland | Neurokirurgia/Neurokirurgi | Naistentaudit ja synnytykset/Kvinnosjukdomar och förlossningar | Sverige | Neurokirurgi | Obstetrik och gynekologi | United Kingdom | Neurosurgery | Obstetrics and gynaecology | Country | General (internal) medicine Minimum period of training: 5 years | Ophthalmology Minimum period of training: 3 years | Title | Title | Belgique/België/Belgien | Médecine interne/Inwendige geneeskunde | Ophtalmologie/Oftalmologie | Česká republika | Vnitřní lékařství | Oftalmologie | Danmark | Intern medicin | Oftalmologi eller øjensygdomme | Deutschland | Innere Medizin | Augenheilkunde | Eesti | Sisehaigused | Oftalmoloogia | Ελλάς | Παθoλoγία | Οφθαλμoλoγία | España | Medicina interna | Oftalmología | France | Médecine interne | Ophtalmologie | Ireland | General medicine | Ophthalmic surgery | Italia | Medicina interna | Oftalmologia | Κύπρος | Παθoλoγία | Οφθαλμολογία | Latvija | Internā medicīna | Oftalmoloģija | Lietuva | Vidaus ligos | Oftalmologija | Luxembourg | Médecine interne | Ophtalmologie | Magyarország | Belgyógyászat | Szemészet | Malta | Mediċina Interna | Oftalmoloġija | Nederland | Interne geneeskunde | Oogheelkunde | Österreich | Innere Medizin | Augenheilkunde und Optometrie | Polska | Choroby wewnętrzne | Okulistyka | Portugal | Medicina interna | Oftalmologia | Slovenija | Interna medicina | Oftalmologija | Slovensko | Vnútorné lekárstvo | Oftalmológia | Suomi/Finland | Sisätaudit/Inre medicin | Silmätaudit/Ögonsjukdomar | Sverige | Internmedicin | Ögonsjukdomar (oftalmologi) | United Kingdom | General (internal) medicine | Ophthalmology | Country | Otorhinolaryngology Minimum period of training: 3 years | Paediatrics Minimum period of training: 4 years | Title | Title | Belgique/België/Belgien | Oto-rhino-laryngologie/Otorhinolaryngologie | Pédiatrie/Pediatrie | Česká republika | Otorinolaryngologie | Dětské lékařství | Danmark | Oto-rhino-laryngologi eller øre-næse-halssygdomme | Pædiatri eller sygdomme hos børn | Deutschland | Hals-Nasen-Ohrenheilkunde | Kinder- und Jugendmedizin | Eesti | Otorinolarüngoloogia | Pediaatria | Ελλάς | Ωτoριvoλαρυγγoλoγία | Παιδιατρική | España | Otorrinolaringología | Pediatría y sus áreas específicas | France | Oto-rhino-laryngologie | Pédiatrie | Ireland | Otolaryngology | Paediatrics | Italia | Otorinolaringoiatria | Pédiatria | Κύπρος | Ωτορινολαρυγγολογία | Παιδιατρική | Latvija | Otolaringoloģija | Pediatrija | Lietuva | Otorinolaringologija | Vaikų ligos | Luxembourg | Oto-rhino-laryngologie | Pédiatrie | Magyarország | Fül-orr-gégegyógyászat | Csecsemő- és gyermekgyógyászat | Malta | Otorinolaringoloġija | Pedjatrija | Nederland | Keel-, neus- en oorheelkunde | Kindergeneeskunde | Österreich | Hals-, Nasen- und Ohrenkrankheiten | Kinder- und Jugendheilkunde | Polska | Otorynolaryngologia | Pediatria | Portugal | Otorrinolaringologia | Pediatria | Slovenija | Otorinolaringológija | Pediatrija | Slovensko | Otorinolaryngológia | Pediatria | Suomi/Finland | Korva-, nenä- ja kurkkutaudit/Öron-, näs- och halssjukdomar | Lastentaudit/Barnsjukdomar | Sverige | Öron-, näs- och halssjukdomar (oto-rhino-laryngologi) | Barn- och ungdomsmedicin | United Kingdom | Otolaryngology | Paediatrics | Country | Respiratory medicine Minimum period of training: 4 years | Urology Minimum period of training: 5 years | Title | Title | Belgique/België/ Belgien | Pneumologie | Urologie | Česká republika | Tuberkulóza a respirační nemoci | Urologie | Danmark | Medicinske lungesygdomme | Urologi eller urinvejenes kirurgiske sygdomme | Deutschland | Pneumologie | Urologie | Eesti | Pulmonoloogia | Uroloogia | Ελλάς | Φυματιoλoγία- Πvευμovoλoγία | Ουρoλoγία | España | Neumología | Urología | France | Pneumologie | Urologie | Ireland | Respiratory medicine | Urology | Italia | Malattie dell'apparato respiratorio | Urologia | Κύπρος | Πνευμονολογία — Φυματιολογία | Ουρολογία | Latvija | Ftiziopneimonoloģija | Uroloģija | Lietuva | Pulmonologija | Urologija | Luxembourg | Pneumologie | Urologie | Magyarország | Tüdőgyógyászat | Urológia | Malta | Mediċina Respiratorja | Uroloġija | Nederland | Longziekten en tuberculose | Urologie | Österreich | Lungenkrankheiten | Urologie | Polska | Choroby płuc | Urologia | Portugal | Pneumologia | Urologia | Slovenija | Pnevmologija | Urologija | Slovensko | Pneumológia a ftizeológia | Urológia | Suomi/Finland | Keuhkosairaudet ja allergologia/Lungsjukdomar och allergologi | Urologia/Urologi | Sverige | Lungsjukdomar (pneumologi) | Urologi | United Kingdom | Respiratory medicine | Urology | Country | Orthopaedics Minimum period of training: 5 years | Pathological anatomy Minimum period of training: 4 years | Title | Title | Belgique/België/Belgien | Chirurgie orthopédique/Orthopedische heelkunde | Anatomie pathologique/Pathologische anatomie | Česká republika | Ortopedie | Patologická anatomie | Danmark | Ortopædisk kirurgi | Patologisk anatomi eller vævs- og celleundersøgelser | Deutschland | Orthopädie (und Unfallchirurgie) | Pathologie | Eesti | Ortopeedia | Patoloogia | Ελλάς | Ορθoπεδική | Παθoλoγική Αvατoμική | España | Cirugía ortopédica y traumatología | Anatomía patológica | France | Chirurgie orthopédique et traumatologie | Anatomie et cytologie pathologiques | Ireland | Trauma and orthopaedic surgery | Morbid anatomy and histopathology | Italia | Ortopedia e traumatologia | Anatomia patologica | Κύπρος | Ορθοπεδική | Παθολογοανατομία — Ιστολογία | Latvija | Traumatoloģija un ortopēdija | Patoloģija | Lietuva | Ortopedija traumatologija | Patologija | Luxembourg | Orthopédie | Anatomie pathologique | Magyarország | Ortopédia | Patológia | Malta | Kirurġija Ortopedika | Istopatoloġija | Nederland | Orthopedie | Pathologie | Österreich | Orthopädie und Orthopädische Chirurgie | Pathologie | Polska | Ortopedia i traumatologia narządu ruchu | Patomorfologia | Portugal | Ortopedia | Anatomia patologica | Slovenija | Ortopedska kirurgija | Anatomska patologija in citopatologija | Slovensko | Ortopédia | Patologická anatómia | Suomi/Finland | Ortopedia ja traumatologia/Ortopedi och traumatologi | Patologia/Patologi | Sverige | Ortopedi | Klinisk patologi | United Kingdom | Trauma and orthopaedic surgery | Histopathology | Country | Neurology Minimum period of training: 4 years | Psychiatry Minimum period of training: 4 years | Title | Title | Belgique/België/Belgien | Neurologie | Psychiatrie de l'adulte/Volwassen psychiatrie | Česká republika | Neurologie | Psychiatrie | Danmark | Neurologi eller medicinske nervesygdomme | Psykiatri | Deutschland | Neurologie | Psychiatrie und Psychotherapie | Eesti | Neuroloogia | Psühhiaatria | Ελλάς | Νευρoλoγία | Ψυχιατρική | España | Neurología | Psiquiatría | France | Neurologie | Psychiatrie | Ireland | Neurology | Psychiatry | Italia | Neurologia | Psichiatria | Κύπρος | Νευρολογία | Ψυχιατρική | Latvija | Neiroloģija | Psihiatrija | Lietuva | Neurologija | Psichiatrija | Luxembourg | Neurologie | Psychiatrie | Magyarország | Neurológia | Pszichiátria | Malta | Newroloġija | Psikjatrija | Nederland | Neurologie | Psychiatrie | Österreich | Neurologie | Psychiatrie | Polska | Neurologia | Psychiatria | Portugal | Neurologia | Psiquiatria | Slovenija | Nevrologija | Psihiatrija | Slovensko | Neurológia | Psychiatria | Suomi/Finland | Neurologia/Neurologi | Psykiatria/Psykiatri | Sverige | Neurologi | Psykiatri | United Kingdom | Neurology | General psychiatry | Country | Diagnostic radiology Minimum period of training: 4 years | Radiotherapy Minimum period of training: 4 years | Title | Title | Belgique/België/Belgien | Radiodiagnostic/Röntgendiagnose | Radiothérapie-oncologie/Radiotherapie-oncologie | Česká republika | Radiologie a zobrazovací metody | Radiační onkologie | Danmark | Diagnostik radiologi eller røntgenundersøgelse | Onkologi | Deutschland | (Diagnostische) Radiologie | Strahlentherapie | Eesti | Radioloogia | Onkoloogia | Ελλάς | Ακτιvoδιαγvωστική | Ακτιvoθεραπευτική — Ογκολογία | España | Radiodiagnóstico | Oncología radioterápica | France | Radiodiagnostic et imagerie médicale | Oncologie radiothérapique | Ireland | Diagnostic radiology | Radiation oncology | Italia | Radiodiagnostica | Radioterapia | Κύπρος | Ακτινολογία | Ακτινοθεραπευτική Ογκολογία | Latvija | Diagnostiskā radioloģija | Terapeitiskā radioloģija | Lietuva | Radiologija | Onkologija radioterapija | Luxembourg | Radiodiagnostic | Radiothérapie | Magyarország | Radiológia | Sugárterápia | Malta | Radjoloġija | Onkoloġija u Radjoterapija | Nederland | Radiologie | Radiotherapie | Österreich | Medizinische Radiologie-Diagnostik | Strahlentherapie - Radioonkologie | Polska | Radiologia i diagnostyka obrazowa | Radioterapia onkologiczna | Portugal | Radiodiagnóstico | Radioterapia | Slovenija | Radiologija | Radioterapija in onkologija | Slovensko | Rádiológia | Radiačná onkológia | Suomi/Finland | Radiologia/Radiologi | Syöpätaudit/Cancersjukdomar | Sverige | Medicinsk radiologi | Tumörsjukdomar (allmän onkologi) | United Kingdom | Clinical radiology | Clinical oncology | Country | Plastic surgery Minimum period of training: 5 years | Clinical biology Minimum period of training: 4 years | Title | Title | Belgique/België/Belgien | Chirurgie plastique, reconstructrice et esthétique/Plastische, reconstructieve en esthetische heelkunde | Biologie clinique/Klinische biologie | Česká republika | Plastická chirurgie | | Danmark | Plastikkirurgi | | Deutschland | Plastische (und Ästhetische) Chirurgie | | Eesti | Plastika- ja rekonstruktiivkirurgia | Laborimeditsiin | Ελλάς | Πλαστική Χειρoυργική | Χειρουργική Θώρακος | España | Cirugía plástica, estética y reparadora | Análisis clínicos | France | Chirurgie plastique, reconstructrice et esthétique | Biologie médicale | Ireland | Plastic surgery | | Italia | Chirurgia plastica e ricostruttiva | Patologia clinica | Κύπρος | Πλαστική Χειρουργική | | Latvija | Plastiskā ķirurģija | | Lietuva | Plastinė ir rekonstrukcinė chirurgija | Laboratorinė medicina | Luxembourg | Chirurgie plastique | Biologie clinique | Magyarország | Plasztikai (égési) sebészet | Orvosi laboratóriumi diagnosztika | Malta | Kirurġija Plastika | | Nederland | Plastische Chirurgie | | Österreich | Plastische Chirurgie | Medizinische Biologie | Polska | Chirurgia plastyczna | Diagnostyka laboratoryjna | Portugal | Cirurgia plástica e reconstrutiva | Patologia clínica | Slovenija | Plastična, rekonstrukcijska in estetska kirurgija | | Slovensko | Plastická chirurgia | Laboratórna medicína | Suomi/Finland | Plastiikkakirurgia/Plastikkirurgi | | Sverige | Plastikkirurgi | | United Kingdom | Plastic surgery | | Country | Microbiology-bacteriology Minimum period of training: 4 years | Biological chemistry Minimum period of training: 4 years | Title | Title | Belgique/België/ Belgien | | | Česká republika | Lékařská mikrobiologie | Klinická biochemie | Danmark | Klinisk mikrobiologi | Klinisk biokemi | Deutschland | Mikrobiologie (Virologie) und Infektionsepidemiologie | Laboratoriumsmedizin | Eesti | | | Ελλάς | 1.Iατρική Βιoπαθoλoγία2.Μικρoβιoλoγία | | España | Microbiología y parasitología | Bioquímica clínica | France | | | Ireland | Microbiology | Chemical pathology | Italia | Microbiologia e virologia | Biochimica clinica | Κύπρος | Μικροβιολογία | | Latvija | Mikrobioloģija | | Lietuva | | | Luxembourg | Microbiologie | Chimie biologique | Magyarország | Orvosi mikrobiológia | | Malta | Mikrobijoloġija | Patoloġija Kimika | Nederland | Medische microbiologie | Klinische chemie | Österreich | Hygiene und Mikrobiologie | Medizinische und Chemische Labordiagnostik | Polska | Mikrobiologia lekarska | | Portugal | | | Slovenija | Klinična mikrobiologija | Medicinska biokemija | Slovensko | Klinická mikrobiológia | Klinická biochémia | Suomi/Finland | Kliininen mikrobiologia/Klinisk mikrobiologi | Kliininen kemia/Klinisk kemi | Sverige | Klinisk bakteriologi | Klinisk kemi | United Kingdom | Medical microbiology and virology | Chemical pathology | Country | Immunology Minimum period of training: 4 years | Thoracic surgery Minimum period of training: 5 years | Title | Title | Belgique/België/ Belgien | | Chirurgie thoracique/Heelkunde op de thorax [1] | Česká republika | Alergologie a klinická imunologie | Kardiochirurgie | Danmark | Klinisk immunologi | Thoraxkirurgi eller brysthulens kirurgiske sygdomme | Deutschland | | Thoraxchirurgie | Eesti | | Torakaalkirurgia | Ελλάς | | Χειρουργική Θώρακος | España | Immunología | Cirugía torácica | France | | Chirurgie thoracique et cardiovasculaire | Ireland | Immunology (clinical and laboratory) | Thoracic surgery | Italia | | Chirurgia toracica; Cardiochirurgia | Κύπρος | Ανοσολογία | Χειρουργική Θώρακος | Latvija | Imunoloģija | Torakālā ķirurģija | Lietuva | | Krūtinės chirurgija | Luxembourg | Immunologie | Chirurgie thoracique | Magyarország | Allergológia és klinikai immunológia | Mellkassebészet | Malta | Immunoloġija | Kirurġija Kardjo-Toraċika | Nederland | | Cardio-thoracale chirurgie | Österreich | Immunologie | | Polska | Immunologia kliniczna | Chirurgia klatki piersiowej | Portugal | | Cirurgia cardiotorácica | Slovenija | | Torakalna kirurgija | Slovensko | Klinická imunológia a alergológia | Hrudníková chirurgia | Suomi/Finland | | Sydän-ja rintaelinkirurgia/Hjärt- och thoraxkirurgi | Sverige | Klinisk immunologi | Thoraxkirurgi | United Kingdom | Immunology | Cardo-thoracic surgery | Country | Paediatric surgery Minimum period of training: 5 years | Vascular surgery Minimum period of training: 5 years | Title | Title | Belgique/België/ Belgien | | Chirurgie des vaisseaux/Bloedvatenheelkunde [2] | Česká republika | Dětská chirurgie | Cévní chirurgie | Danmark | | Karkirurgi eller kirurgiske blodkarsygdomme | Deutschland | Kinderchirurgie | Gefäßchirurgie | Eesti | Lastekirurgia | Kardiovaskulaarkirurgia | Ελλάς | Χειρoυργική Παίδωv | Αγγειoχειρoυργική | España | Cirugía pediátrica | Angiología y cirugía vascular | France | Chirurgie infantile | Chirurgie vasculaire | Ireland | Paediatric surgery | | Italia | Chirurgia pediatrica | Chirurgia vascolare | Κύπρος | Χειρουργική Παίδων | Χειρουργική Αγγείων | Latvija | Bērnu ķirurģija | Asinsvadu ķirurģija | Lietuva | Vaikų chirurgija | Kraujagyslių chirurgija | Luxembourg | Chirurgie pédiatrique | Chirurgie vasculaire | Magyarország | Gyermeksebészet | Érsebészet | Malta | Kirurgija Pedjatrika | Kirurġija Vaskolari | Nederland | | | Österreich | Kinderchirurgie | | Polska | Chirurgia dziecięca | Chirurgia naczyniowa | Portugal | Cirurgia pediátrica | Cirurgia vascular | Slovenija | | Kardiovaskularna kirurgija | Slovensko | Detská chirurgia | Cievna chirurgia | Suomi/Finland | Lastenkirurgia/Barnkirurgi | Verisuonikirurgia/Kärlkirurgi | Sverige | Barn- och ungdomskirurgi | | United Kingdom | Paediatric surgery | | Country | Cardiology Minimum period of training: 4 years | Gastroenterology Minimum period of training: 4 years | Title | Title | Belgique/België/ Belgien | Cardiologie | Gastro-entérologie/Gastroenterologie | Česká republika | Kardiologie | Gastroenterologie | Danmark | Kardiologi | Medicinsk gastroenterologi eller medicinske mavetarmsygdomme | Deutschland | Innere Medizin und Schwerpunkt Kardiologie | Innere Medizin und Schwerpunkt Gastroenterologie | Eesti | Kardioloogia | Gastroenteroloogia | Ελλάς | Καρδιoλoγία | Γαστρεvτερoλoγία | España | Cardiología | Aparato digestivo | France | Pathologie cardio-vasculaire | Gastro-entérologie et hépatologie | Ireland | Cardiology | Gastro-enterology | Italia | Cardiologia | Gastroenterologia | Κύπρος | Καρδιολογία | Γαστρεντερολογία | Latvija | Kardioloģija | Gastroenteroloģija | Lietuva | Kardiologija | Gastroenterologija | Luxembourg | Cardiologie et angiologie | Gastro-enterologie | Magyarország | Kardiológia | Gasztroenterológia | Malta | Kardjoloġija | Gastroenteroloġija | Nederland | Cardiologie | Leer van maag-darm-leverziekten | Österreich | | | Polska | Kardiologia | Gastrenterologia | Portugal | Cardiologia | Gastrenterologia | Slovenija | | Gastroenterologija | Slovensko | Kardiológia | Gastroenterológia | Suomi/Finland | Kardiologia/Kardiologi | Gastroenterologia/Gastroenterologi | Sverige | Kardiologi | Medicinsk gastroenterologi och hepatologi | United Kingdom | Cardiology | Gastro-enterology | Country | Rheumatology Minimum period of training: 4 years | General Haematology Minimum period of training: 3 years | Title | Title | Belgique/België/ Belgien | Rhumathologie/reumatologie | | Česká republika | Revmatologie | Hematologie a transfúzní lékařství | Danmark | Reumatologi | Hæmatologi eller blodsygdomme | Deutschland | Innere Medizin und Schwerpunkt Rheumatologie | Innere Medizin und Schwerpunkt Hämatologie und Onkologie | Eesti | Reumatoloogia | Hematoloogia | Ελλάς | Ρευματoλoγία | Αιματoλoγία | España | Reumatología | Hematología y hemoterapia | France | Rhumatologie | | Ireland | Rheumatology | Haematology (clinical and laboratory) | Italia | Reumatologia | Ematologia | Κύπρος | Ρευματολογία | Αιματολογία | Latvija | Reimatoloģija | Hematoloģija | Lietuva | Reumatologija | Hematologija | Luxembourg | Rhumatologie | Hématologie | Magyarország | Reumatológia | Haematológia | Malta | Rewmatoloġija | Ematoloġija | Nederland | Reumatologie | | Österreich | | | Polska | Reumatologia | Hematologia | Portugal | Reumatologia | Imuno-hemoterapia | Slovenija | | | Slovensko | Reumatológia | Hematológia a transfúziológia | Suomi/Finland | Reumatologia/Reumatologi | Kliininen hematologia/Klinisk hematologi | Sverige | Reumatologi | Hematologi | United Kingdom | Rheumatology | Haematology | Country | Endocrinology Minimum period of training: 3 years | Physiotherapy Minimum period of training: 3 years | Title | Title | Belgique/België/Belgien | | Médecine physique et réadaptation/Fysische geneeskunde en revalidatie | Česká republika | Endokrinologie | Rehabilitační a fyzikální medicína | Danmark | Medicinsk endokrinologi eller medicinske hormonsygdomme | | Deutschland | Innere Medizin und Schwerpunkt Endokrinologie und Diabetologie | Physikalische und Rehabilitative Medizin | Eesti | Endokrinoloogia | Taastusravi ja füsiaatria | Ελλάς | Εvδoκριvoλoγία | Φυσική Iατρική και Απoκατάσταση | España | Endocrinología y nutrición | Medicina física y rehabilitación | France | Endocrinologie, maladies métaboliques | Rééducation et réadaptation fonctionnelles | Ireland | Endocrinology and diabetes mellitus | | Italia | Endocrinologia e malattie del ricambio | Medicina fisica e riabilitazione | Κύπρος | Ενδοκρινολογία | Φυσική Ιατρική και Αποκατάσταση | Latvija | Endokrinoloģija | Rehabilitoloģija Fiziskā rehabilitācija Fizikālā medicīna | Lietuva | Endokrinologija | Fizinė medicina ir reabilitacija | Luxembourg | Endocrinologie, maladies du métabolisme et de la nutrition | Rééducation et réadaptation fonctionnelles | Magyarország | Endokrinológia | Fizioterápia | Malta | Endokrinoloġija u Dijabete | | Nederland | | Revalidatiegeneeskunde | Österreich | | Physikalische Medizin | Polska | Endokrynologia | Rehabilitacja medyczna | Portugal | Endocrinologia | Fisiatria ou Medicina física e de reabilitação | Slovenija | | Fizikalna in rehabilitacijska medicina | Slovensko | Endokrinológia | Fyziatria, balneológia a liečebná rehabilitácia | Suomi/Finland | Endokrinologia/Endokrinologi | Fysiatria/Fysiatri | Sverige | Endokrina sjukdomar | Rehabiliteringsmedicin | United Kingdom | Endocrinology and diabetes mellitus | | Country | Neuropsychiatry Minimum period of training: 5 years | Dermato-venereology Minimum period of training: 3 years | Title | Title | Belgique/België/Belgien | Neuropsychiatrie [3] | Dermato-vénéréologie/Dermato-venerologie | Česká republika | | Dermatovenerologie | Danmark | | Dermato-venerologi eller hud- og kønssygdomme | Deutschland | Nervenheilkunde (Neurologie und Psychiatrie) | Haut- und Geschlechtskrankheiten | Eesti | | Dermatoveneroloogia | Ελλάς | Νευρoλoγία — Ψυχιατρική | Δερματoλoγία — Αφρoδισιoλoγία | España | | Dermatología médico-quirúrgica y venereología | France | Neuropsychiatrie [4] | Dermatologie et vénéréologie | Ireland | | | Italia | Neuropsichiatria [5] | Dermatologia e venerologia | Κύπρος | Νευρολογία — Ψυχιατρική | Δερματολογία — Αφροδισιολογία | Latvija | | Dermatoloģija un veneroloģija | Lietuva | | Dermatovenerologija | Luxembourg | Neuropsychiatrie [6] | Dermato-vénéréologie | Magyarország | | Bőrgyógyászat | Malta | | Dermato-venerejoloġija | Nederland | Zenuw- en zielsziekten [7] | Dermatologie en venerologie | Österreich | Neurologie und Psychiatrie | Haut- und Geschlechtskrankheiten | Polska | | Dermatologia i wenerologia | Portugal | | Dermatovenereologia | Slovenija | | Dermatovenerologija | Slovensko | Neuropsychiatria | Dermatovenerológia | Suomi/Finland | | Ihotaudit ja allergologia/Hudsjukdomar och allergologi | Sverige | | Hud- och könssjukdomar | United Kingdom | | | Country | Radiology Minimum period of training: 4 years | Child psychiatry Minimum period of training: 4 years | Title | Title | Belgique/België/Belgien | | Psychiatrie infanto-juvénile/Kinder- en jeugdpsychiatrie | Česká republika | | Dětská a dorostová psychiatrie | Danmark | | Børne- og ungdomspsykiatri | Deutschland | Radiologie | Kinder- und Jugendpsychiatrie und -psychotherapie | Eesti | | | Ελλάς | Ακτιvoλoγία — Ραδιoλoγία | Παιδoψυχιατρική | España | Electrorradiología | | France | Electro-radiologie [8] | Pédo-psychiatrie | Ireland | Radiology [9] | Child and adolescent psychiatry | Italia | Radiologia | Neuropsichiatria infantile | Κύπρος | | Παιδοψυχιατρική | Latvija | | Bērnu psihiatrija | Lietuva | | Vaikų ir paauglių psichiatrija | Luxembourg | Électroradiologie [10] | Psychiatrie infantile | Magyarország | Radiológia | Gyermek-és ifjúságpszichiátria | Malta | | | Nederland | Radiologie [11] | | Österreich | Radiologie | | Polska | | Psychiatria dzieci i młodzieży | Portugal | Radiologia | Pedopsiquiatria | Slovenija | | Otroška in mladostniška psihiatrija | Slovensko | | Detská psychiatria | Suomi/Finland | | Lastenpsykiatria/Barnpsykiatri | Sverige | | Barn- och ungdomspsykiatri | United Kingdom | | Child and adolescent psychiatry | Country | Geriatrics Minimum period of training: 4 years | Renal diseases Minimum period of training: 4 years | Title | Title | Belgique/België/ Belgien | | | Česká republika | Geriatrie | Nefrologie | Danmark | Geriatri eller alderdommens sygdomme | Nefrologi eller medicinske nyresygdomme | Deutschland | | Innere Medizin und Schwerpunkt Nephrologie | Eesti | | Nefroloogia | Ελλάς | | Νεφρoλoγία | España | Geriatría | Nefrología | France | | Néphrologie | Ireland | Geriatric medicine | Nephrology | Italia | Geriatria | Nefrologia | Κύπρος | Γηριατρική | Νεφρολογία | Latvija | | Nefroloģija | Lietuva | Geriatrija | Nefrologija | Luxembourg | Gériatrie | Néphrologie | Magyarország | Geriátria | Nefrológia | Malta | Ġerjatrija | Nefroloġija | Nederland | Klinische geriatrie | | Österreich | | | Polska | Geriatria | Nefrologia | Portugal | | Nefrologia | Slovenija | | Nefrologija | Slovensko | Geriatria | Nefrológia | Suomi/Finland | Geriatria/Geriatri | Nefrologia/Nefrologi | Sverige | Geriatrik | Medicinska njursjukdomar (nefrologi) | United Kingdom | Geriatrics | Renal medicine | Country | Communicable diseases Minimum period of training: 4 years | Community medicine Minimum period of training: 4 years | Title | Title | Belgique/België/ Belgien | | | Česká republika | Infekční lékařství | Hygiena a epidemiologie | Danmark | Infektionsmedicin | Samfundsmedicin | Deutschland | | Öffentliches Gesundheitswesen | Eesti | Infektsioonhaigused | | Ελλάς | | Κοινωνική Iατρική | España | | Medicina preventiva y salud pública | France | | Santé publique et médecine sociale | Ireland | Infectious diseases | Public health medicine | Italia | Malattie infettive | Igiene e medicina preventiva | Κύπρος | Λοιμώδη Νοσήματα | Υγειονολογία/Κοινοτική Ιατρική | Latvija | Infektoloģija | | Lietuva | Infektologija | | Luxembourg | Maladies contagieuses | Santé publique | Magyarország | Infektológia | Megelőző orvostan és népegészségtan | Malta | Mard Infettiv | Saħħa Pubblika | Nederland | | Maatschappij en gezondheid | Österreich | | Sozialmedizin | Polska | Choroby zakaźne | Zdrowie publiczne, epidemiologia | Portugal | Infecciologia | Saúde pública | Slovenija | Infektologija | Javno zdravje | Slovensko | Infektológia | Verejné zdravotníctvo | Suomi/Finland | Infektiosairaudet/Infektionssjukdomar | Terveydenhuolto/Hälsovård | Sverige | Infektionssjukdomar | Socialmedicin | United Kingdom | Infectious diseases | Public health medicine | Country | Pharmacology Minimum period of training: 4 years | Occupational medicine Minimum period of training: 4 years | Title | Title | Belgique/België/Belgien | | Médecine du travail/Arbeidsgeneeskunde | Česká republika | Klinická farmakologie | Pracovní lékařství | Danmark | Klinisk farmakologi | Arbejdsmedicin | Deutschland | Pharmakologie und Toxikologie | Arbeitsmedizin | Eesti | | | Ελλάς | | Iατρική της Εργασίας | España | Farmacología clínica | Medicina del trabajo | France | | Médecine du travail | Ireland | Clinical pharmacology and therapeutics | Occupational medicine | Italia | Farmacologia | Medicina del lavoro | Κύπρος | | Ιατρική της Εργασίας | Latvija | | Arodslimības | Lietuva | | Darbo medicina | Luxembourg | | Médecine du travail | Magyarország | Klinikai farmakológia | Foglalkozás-orvostan (üzemorvostan) | Malta | Farmakoloġija Klinika u t-Terapewtika | Mediċina Okkupazzjonali | Nederland | | Arbeid en gezondheid, bedrijfsgeneeskundeArbeid en gezondheid, verzekeringsgeneeskunde | Österreich | Pharmakologie und Toxikologie | Arbeits- und Betriebsmedizin | Polska | Farmakologia kliniczna | Medycyna pracy | Portugal | | Medicina do trabalho | Slovenija | | Medicina dela, prometa in športa | Slovensko | Klinická farmakológia | Pracovné lekárstvo | Suomi/Finland | Kliininen farmakologia ja lääkehoito/Klinisk farmakologi och läkemedelsbehandling | Työterveyshuolto/Företagshälsovård | Sverige | Klinisk farmakologi | Yrkes- och miljömedicin | United Kingdom | Clinical pharmacology and therapeutics | Occupational medicine | Country | Allergology Minimum period of training: 3 years | Nuclear medicine Minimum period of training: 4 years | Title | Title | Belgique/België/Belgien | | Médecine nucléaire/Nucleaire geneeskunde | Česká republika | Alergologie a klinická imunologie | Nukleární medicína | Danmark | Medicinsk allergologi eller medicinske overfølsomhedssygdomme | Klinisk fysiologi og nuklearmedicin | Deutschland | | Nuklearmedizin | Eesti | | | Ελλάς | Αλλεργιoλoγία | Πυρηvική Iατρική | España | Alergología | Medicina nuclear | France | | Médecine nucléaire | Ireland | | | Italia | Allergologia ed immunologia clinica | Medicina nucleare | Κύπρος | Αλλεργιολογία | Πυρηνική Ιατρική | Latvija | Alergoloģija | | Lietuva | Alergologija ir klinikinė imunologija | | Luxembourg | | Médecine nucléaire | Magyarország | Allergológia és klinikai immunológia | Nukleáris medicina (izotóp diagnosztika) | Malta | | Mediċina Nukleari | Nederland | Allergologie en inwendige geneeskunde | Nucleaire geneeskunde | Österreich | | Nuklearmedizin | Polska | Alergologia | Medycyna nuklearna | Portugal | Imuno-alergologia | Medicina nuclear | Slovenija | | Nuklearna medicina | Slovensko | Klinická imunológia a alergológia | Nukleárna medicína | Suomi/Finland | | Kliininen fysiologia ja isotooppilääketiede/Klinisk fysiologi och nukleärmedicin | Sverige | Allergisjukdomar | Nukleärmedicin | United Kingdom | | Nuclear medicine | Country | Maxillo-facial surgery (basic medical training) Minimum period of training: 5 years | Title | Belgique/België/ Belgien | | Česká republika | Maxilofaciální chirurgie | Danmark | | Deutschland | | Eesti | | Ελλάς | | España | Cirugía oral y maxilofacial | France | Chirurgie maxillo-faciale et stomatologie | Ireland | | Italia | Chirurgia maxillo-facciale | Κύπρος | | Latvija | Mutes, sejas un žokļu ķirurģija | Lietuva | Veido ir žandikaulių chirurgija | Luxembourg | Chirurgie maxillo-faciale | Magyarország | Szájsebészet | Malta | | Nederland | | Österreich | Mund- Kiefer- und Gesichtschirurgie | Polska | Chirurgia szczekowo-twarzowa | Portugal | Cirurgia maxilo-facial | Slovenija | Maxilofaciálna kirurgija | Slovensko | Maxilofaciálna chirurgia | Suomi/Finland | | Sverige | | United Kingdom | | Country | Biological haematology Minimum period of training: 4 years | Title | Belgique/België/Belgien | | Česká republika | | Danmark | Klinisk blodtypeserologi [12] | Deutschland | | Eesti | | Ελλάς | | España | | France | Hématologie | Ireland | | Italia | | Κύπρος | | Latvija | | Lietuva | | Luxembourg | Hématologie biologique | Magyarország | | Malta | | Nederland | | Österreich | | Polska | | Portugal | Hematologia clinica | Slovenija | | Slovensko | | Suomi/Finland | | Sverige | | United Kingdom | | Country | Stomatology Minimum period of training: 3 years | Dermatology Minimum period of training: 4 years | Title | Title | Belgique/België/Belgien | | | Česká republika | | | Danmark | | | Deutschland | | | Eesti | | | Ελλάς | | | España | Estomatología | | France | Stomatologie | | Ireland | | Dermatology | Italia | Odontostomatologia [13] | | Κύπρος | | | Latvija | | | Lietuva | | | Luxembourg | Stomatologie | | Magyarország | | | Malta | | Dermatoloġija | Nederland | | | Österreich | | | Polska | | | Portugal | Estomatologia | | Slovenija | | | Slovensko | | | Suomi/Finland | | | Sverige | | | United Kingdom | | Dermatology | Country | Venerology Minimum period of training: 4 years | Tropical medicine Minimum period of training: 4 years | Title | Title | Belgique/België/Belgien | | | Česká republika | | | Danmark | | | Deutschland | | | Eesti | | | Ελλάς | | | España | | | France | | | Ireland | Genito-urinary medicine | Tropical medicine | Italia | | Medicina tropicale | Κύπρος | | | Latvija | | | Lietuva | | | Luxembourg | | | Magyarország | | Trópusi betegségek | Malta | Mediċina Uro-ġenetali | | Nederland | | | Österreich | | Spezifische Prophylaxe und Tropenhygiene | Polska | | Medycyna transportu | Portugal | | Medicina tropical | Slovenija | | | Slovensko | | Tropická medicína | Suomi/Finland | | | Sverige | | | United Kingdom | Genito-urinary medicine | Tropical medicine | Country | Gastroenterological surgery Minimum period of training: 5 years | Accident and emergency medicine Minimum period of training: 5 years | Title | Title | Belgique/België/Belgien | Chirurgie abdominale/Heelkunde op het abdomen [14] | | Česká republika | | Traumatologie Urgentní medicína | Danmark | Kirurgisk gastroenterologi eller kirurgiske mave-tarmsygdomme | | Deutschland | Visceralchirurgie | | Eesti | | | Ελλάς | | | España | Cirugía del aparato digestivo | | France | Chirurgie viscérale et digestive | | Ireland | | Emergency medicine | Italia | Chirurgia dell'apparato digerente | | Κύπρος | | | Latvija | | | Lietuva | Abdominalinė chirurgija | | Luxembourg | Chirurgie gastro-entérologique | | Magyarország | | Traumatológia | Malta | | Mediċina tal-Aċċidenti u l-Emerġenza | Nederland | | | Österreich | | | Polska | | Medycyna ratunkowa | Portugal | | | Slovenija | Abdominalna kirurgija | | Slovensko | Gastroenterologická chirurgia | Úrazová chirurgia Urgentná medicína | Suomi/Finland | Gastroenterologinen kirurgia/Gastroenterologisk kirurgi | | Sverige | | | United Kingdom | | Accident and emergency medicine | Country | Clinical neurophysiology Minimum period of training: 4 years | Dental, oral and maxillo-facial surgery (basic medical and dental training) [15] Minimum period of training: 4 years | Title | Title | Belgique/België/Belgien | | Stomatologie et chirurgie orale et maxillo-faciale/Stomatologie en mond-, kaak- en aangezichtschirurgie | Česká republika | | | Danmark | Klinisk neurofysiologi | | Deutschland | | Mund-, Kiefer- und Gesichtschirurgie | Eesti | | | Ελλάς | | | España | Neurofisiología clínica | | France | | | Ireland | Clinical neurophysiology | Oral and maxillo-facial surgery | Italia | | | Κύπρος | | Στοματο-Γναθο-Προσωποχειρουργική | Latvija | | | Lietuva | | | Luxembourg | | Chirurgie dentaire, orale et maxillo-faciale | Magyarország | | Arc-állcsont-szájsebészet | Malta | Newrofiżjoloġija Klinika | Kirurġija tal-għadam tal-wiċċ | Nederland | | | Österreich | | | Polska | | | Portugal | | | Slovenija | | | Slovensko | | | Suomi/Finland | Kliininen neurofysiologia/Klinisk neurofysiologi | Suu- ja leukakirurgia/Oral och maxillofacial kirurgi | Sverige | Klinisk neurofysiologi | | United Kingdom | Clinical neurophysiology | Oral and maxillo-facial surgery | 5.1.4.
Evidence of formal qualifications of general practitioners Country | Evidence of formal qualifications | Professional title | Reference date | België/Belgique/Belgien | Ministerieel erkenningsbesluit van huisarts/Arrêté ministériel d'agrément de médecin généraliste | Huisarts/Médecin généraliste | 31 December 1994 | Česká republika | Diplom o specializaci "všeobecné lékařství" | Všeobecný lékař | 1 May 2004 | Danmark | Tilladelse til at anvende betegnelsen alment praktiserende læge/Speciallægel i almen medicin | Almen praktiserende læge/Speciallæge i almen medicin | 31 December 1994 | Deutschland | Zeugnis über die spezifische Ausbildung in der Allgemeinmedizin | Facharzt/Fachärztin für Allgemeinmedizin | 31 December 1994 | Eesti | Diplom peremeditsiini erialal | Perearst | 1 May 2004 | Ελλάς | Tίτλος ιατρικής ειδικότητας γενικής ιατρικής | Iατρός με ειδικότητα γενικής ιατρικής | 31 December 1994 | España | Título de especialista en medicina familiar y comunitaria | Especialista en medicina familiar y comunitaria | 31 December 1994 | France | Diplôme d'Etat de docteur en médecine (avec document annexé attestant la formation spécifique en médecine générale) | Médecin qualifié en médecine générale | 31 December 1994 | Ireland | Certificate of specific qualifications in general medical practice | General medical practitioner | 31 December 1994 | Italia | Attestato di formazione specifica in medicina generale | Medico di medicina generale | 31 December 1994 | Κύπρος | Τίτλος Ειδικότητας Γενικής Ιατρικής | Ιατρός Γενικής Ιατρικής | 1 May 2004 | Latvija | Ģimenes ārsta sertifikāts | Ģimenes (vispārējās prakses) ārsts | 1 May 2004 | Lietuva | Šeimos gydytojo rezidentūros pažymėjimas | Šeimos medicinos gydytojas | 1 May 2004 | Luxembourg | Diplôme de formation spécifique en medicine générale | Médecin généraliste | 31 December 1994 | Magyarország | Háziorvostan szakorvosa bizonyítvány | Háziorvostan szakorvosa | 1 May 2004 | Malta | Tabib tal-familja | Mediċina tal-familja | 1 May 2004 | Nederland | Certificaat van inschrijving in het register van erkende huisartsen van de Koninklijke Nederlandsche Maatschappij tot bevordering der geneeskunst | Huisarts | 31 December 1994 | Österreich | Arzt für Allgemeinmedizin | Arzt für Allgemeinmedizin | 31 December 1994 | Polska | Diplôme: Dyplom uzyskania tytułu specjalisty w dziedzinie medycyny rodzinnej | Specjalista w dziedzinie medycyny rodzinnej | 1 May 2004 | Portugal | Diploma do internato complementar de clínica geral | Assistente de clínica geral | 31 December 1994 | Slovenija | Potrdilo o opravljeni specializaciji iz družinske medicine | Specialist družinske medicine/Specialistka družinske medicine | 1 May 2004 | Slovensko | Diplom o špecializácii v odbore "všeobecné lekárstvo" | Všeobecný lekár | 1 May 2004 | Suomi/ Finland | Todistus lääkärin perusterveydenhuollon lisäkoulutuksesta/Bevis om tilläggsutbildning av läkare i primärvård | Yleislääkäri/Allmänläkare | 31 December 1994 | Sverige | Bevis om kompetens som allmänpraktiserande läkare (Europaläkare) utfärdat av Socialstyrelsen | Allmänpraktiserande läkare (Europaläkare) | 31 December 1994 | United Kingdom | Certificate of prescribed/equivalent experience | General medical practitioner | 31 December 1994 | V.2.
Training programme for nurses responsible for general care The training leading to the award of a formal qualification of nurses responsible for general care shall consist of the following two parts.
Evidence of formal qualifications of nurses responsible for general care Country | Evidence of formal qualifications | Body awarding the evidence of qualifications | Professional title | Reference date | België/Belgique/Belgien | Diploma gegradueerde verpleger/verpleegster/Diplôme d'infirmier(ère) gradué(e)/Diplom eines (einer) graduierten Krankenpflegers (-pflegerin)Diploma in de ziekenhuisverpleegkunde/Brevet d'infirmier(ère) hospitalier(ère)/Brevet eines (einer) Krankenpflegers (-pflegerin)Brevet van verpleegassistent(e)/Brevet d'hospitalier(ère)/Brevet einer Pflegeassistentin | De erkende opleidingsinstituten/Les établissements d'enseignement reconnus/Die anerkannten AusbildungsanstaltenDe bevoegde Examencommissie van de Vlaamse Gemeenschap/Le Jury compétent d'enseignement de la Communauté française/Der zuständige Prüfungsausschüß der Deutschsprachigen Gemeinschaft | Hospitalier(ère)/Verpleegassistent(e)Infirmier(ère) hospitalier(ère)/Ziekenhuisverpleger(-verpleegster) | 29 June 1979 | Česká republika | 1.Diplom o ukončení studia ve studijním programu ošetřovatelství ve studijním oboru všeobecná sestra (bakalář, Bc.), accompanied by the following certificate: Vysvědčení o státní závěrečné zkoušce | 1.Vysoká škola zřízená nebo uznaná státem | 1.Všeobecná sestra | 1 May 2004 | 2.Diplom o ukončení studia ve studijním oboru diplomovaná všeobecná sestra (diplomovaný specialista, DiS.), accompanied by the following certificate: Vysvědčení o absolutoriu | 2.Vyšší odborná škola zřízená nebo uznaná státem | 2.Všeobecný ošetřovatel | Danmark | Eksamensbevis efter gennemført sygeplejerskeuddannelse | Sygeplejeskole godkendt af Undervisningsministeriet | Sygeplejerske | 29 June 1979 | Deutschland | Zeugnis über die staatliche Prüfung in der Krankenpflege | Staatlicher Prüfungsausschuss | Gesundheits- und Krankenpflegerin/Gesundheits- und Krankenpfleger | 29 June 1979 | Eesti | Diplom õe erialal | 1.Tallinna Meditsiinikool2.Tartu Meditsiinikool3.Kohtla-Järve Meditsiinikool | õde | 1 May 2004 | Ελλάς | 1.Πτυχίο Νοσηλευτικής Παν/μίου Αθηνών | 1.Πανεπιστήμιο Αθηνών | Διπλωματούχος ή πτυχιούχος νοσοκόμος, νοσηλευτής ή νοσηλεύτρια | 1 January 1981 | 2.Πτυχίο Νοσηλευτικής Τεχνολογικών Εκπαιδευτικών Ιδρυμάτων (Τ.Ε.Ι.) | 2.Τεχνολογικά Εκπαιδευτικά Ιδρύματα Υπουργείο Εθνικής Παιδείας και Θρησκευμάτων | 3.Πτυχίο Αξιωματικών Νοσηλευτικής | 3.Υπουργείο Εθνικής 'Αμυνας | 4.Πτυχίο Αδελφών Νοσοκόμων πρώην Ανωτέρων Σχολών Υπουργείου Υγείας και Πρόνοιας | 4.Υπουργείο Υγείας και Πρόνοιας | 5.Πτυχίο Αδελφών Νοσοκόμων και Επισκεπτριών πρώην Ανωτέρων Σχολών Υπουργείου Υγείας και Πρόνοιας | 5.Υπουργείο Υγείας και Πρόνοιας | 6.Πτυχίο Τμήματος Νοσηλευτικής | 6.ΚΑΤΕΕ Υπουργείου Εθνικής Παιδείας και Θρησκευμάτων | España | Título de Diplomado universitario en Enfermería | Ministerio de Educación y CulturaEl rector de una universidad | Enfermero/a diplomado/a | 1 January 1986 | France | Diplôme d'Etat d'infirmier(ère)Diplôme d'Etat d'infirmier(ère) délivré en vertu du décret no 99-1147 du 29 décembre 1999 | Le ministère de la santé | Infirmer(ère) | 29 June 1979 | Ireland | Certificate of Registered General Nurse | An Bord Altranais (The Nursing Board) | Registered General Nurse | 29 June 1979 | Italia | Diploma di infermiere professionale | Scuole riconosciute dallo Stato | Infermiere professionale | 29 June 1979 | Κύπρος | Δίπλωμα Γενικής Νοσηλευτικής | Νοσηλευτική Σχολή | Εγγεγραμμένος Νοσηλευτής | 1 May 2004 | Latvija | 1.Diploms par māsas kvalifikācijas iegūšanu | 1.Māsu skolas | Māsa | 1 May 2004 | 2.Māsas diploms | 2.Universitātes tipa augstskola pamatojoties uz Valsts eksāmenu komisijas lēmumu | Lietuva | 1.Aukštojo mokslo diplomas, nurodantis suteiktą bendrosios praktikos slaugytojo profesinę kvalifikaciją | 1.Universitetas | Bendrosios praktikos slaugytojas | 1 May 2004 | 2.Aukštojo mokslo diplomas (neuniversitetinės studijos), nurodantis suteiktą bendrosios praktikos slaugytojo profesine kvalifikaciją | 2.Kolegija | Luxembourg | Diplôme d'Etat d'infirmierDiplôme d'Etat d'infirmier hospitalier gradué | Ministère de l'éducation nationale, de la formation professionnelle et des sports | Infirmier | 29 June 1979 | Magyarország | 1.Ápoló bizonyítvány | 1.Iskola | Ápoló | 1 May 2004 | 2.Diplomás ápoló oklevél | 2.Egyetem/főiskola | 3.Egyetemi okleveles ápoló oklevél | 3.Egyetem | Malta | Lawrja jew diploma fl-istudji tal-infermerija | Universita` ta' Malta | Infermier Registrat tal-Ewwel Livell | 1 May 2004 | Nederland | 1.Diploma's verpleger A, verpleegster A, verpleegkundige A | 1.Door een van overheidswege benoemde examencommissie | Verpleegkundige | 29 June 1979 | 2.Diploma verpleegkundige MBOV (Middelbare Beroepsopleiding Verpleegkundige) | 2.Door een van overheidswege benoemde examencommissie | 3.Diploma verpleegkundige HBOV (Hogere Beroepsopleiding Verpleegkundige) | 3.Door een van overheidswege benoemde examencommissie | 4.Diploma beroepsonderwijs verpleegkundige — Kwalificatieniveau 4 | 4.Door een van overheidswege aangewezen opleidingsinstelling | 5.Diploma hogere beroepsopleiding verpleegkundige — Kwalificatieniveau 5 | 5.Door een van overheidswege aangewezen opleidingsinstelling | Österreich | 1.Diplom als "Diplomierte Gesundheits- und Krankenschwester, Diplomierter Gesundheits- und Krankenpfleger" | 1.Schule für allgemeine Gesundheits- und Krankenpflege | Diplomierte KrankenschwesterDiplomierter Krankenpfleger | 1 January 1994 | 2.Diplom als "Diplomierte Krankenschwester, Diplomierter Krankenpfleger" | 2.Allgemeine Krankenpflegeschule | Polska | Dyplom ukończenia studiów wyższych na kierunku pielęgniarstwo z tytułem "magister pielęgniarstwa" | Instytucja prowadząca kształcenie na poziomie wyższym uznana przez właściwe władze (Higher educational institution recognised by the competent authorities) | Pielegniarka | 1 May 2004 | Portugal | 1.Diploma do curso de enfermagem geral | 1.Escolas de Enfermagem | Enfermeiro | 1 January 1986 | 2.Diploma/carta de curso de bacharelato em enfermagem | 2.Escolas Superiores de Enfermagem | 3.Carta de curso de licenciatura em enfermagem | 3.Escolas Superiores de Enfermagem; Escolas Superiores de Saúde | Slovenija | Diploma, s katero se podeljuje strokovni naslov "diplomirana medicinska sestra/diplomirani zdravstvenik" | 1.Univerza2.Visoka strokovna šola | Diplomirana medicinska sestra/Diplomirani zdravstvenik | 1 May 2004 | Slovensko | 1.Vysokoškolský diplom o udelení akademického titulu "magister z ošetrovateľstva" ("Mgr.") | 1.Vysoká škola | Sestra | 1 May 2004 | 2.Vysokoškolský diplom o udelení akademického titulu "bakalár z ošetrovateľstva" ("Bc.") | 2.Vysoká škola | 3.Absolventský diplom v študijnom odbore diplomovaná všeobecná sestra | 3.Stredná zdravotnícka škola | Suomi/ Finland | 1.Sairaanhoitajan tutkinto/Sjukskötarexamen | 1.Terveydenhuolto-oppilaitokset/ Hälsovårdsläroanstalter | Sairaanhoitaja/Sjukskötare | 1 January 1994 | 2.Sosiaali- ja terveysalan ammattikorkeakoulututkinto, sairaanhoitaja (AMK)/Yrkeshögskoleexamen inom hälsovård och det sociala området, sjukskötare (YH) | 2.Ammattikorkeakoulut/ Yrkeshögskolor | Sverige | Sjuksköterskeexamen | Universitet eller högskola | Sjuksköterska | 1 January 1994 | United Kingdom | Statement of Registration as a Registered General Nurse in part 1 or part 12 of the register kept by the United Kingdom Central Council for Nursing, Midwifery and Health Visiting | Various | State Registered NurseRegistered General Nurse | 29 June 1979 | V.3.
Basic subjects - Chemistry - Physics - Biology B.
Medico-biological subjects and general medical subjects - Anatomy - Embryology - Histology, including cytology - Physiology - Biochemistry (or physiological chemistry) - Pathological anatomy - General pathology - Pharmacology - Microbiology - Hygiene - Preventive medicine and epidemiology - Radiology - Physiotherapy - General surgery - General medicine, including paediatrics - Oto-rhino-laryngology - Dermato-venereology - General psychology — psychopathology — neuropathology - Anaesthetics C.
Subjects directly related to dentistry - Prosthodontics - Dental materials and equipment - Conservative dentistry - Preventive dentistry - Anaesthetics and sedation - Special surgery - Special pathology - Clinical practice - Paedodontics - Orthodontics - Periodontics - Dental radiology - Dental occlusion and function of the jaw - Professional organisation, ethics and legislation - Social aspects of dental practice 5.3.2.
Evidence of basic formal qualifications of dental practitioners Country | Evidence of formal qualifications | Body awarding the evidence of qualifications | Certificate accompanying the evidence of qualifications | Professional title | Reference date | België/Belgique/Belgien | Diploma van tandarts/Diplôme licencié en science dentaire | De universiteiten/Les universitésDe bevoegde Examen- commissie van de Vlaamse Gemeenschap/Le Jury compétent d'enseignement de la Communauté française | | Licentiaat in de tandheelkunde/Licencié en science dentaire | 28 January 1980 | Česká republika | Diplom o ukončení studia ve studijním programu zubní lékařství (doktor) | Lékařská fakulta univerzity v České republice | Vysvědčení o státní rigorózní zkoušce | Zubní lékař | 1 May 2004 | Danmark | Bevis for tandlægeeksamen (odontologisk kandidateksamen) | Tandlægehøjskolerne, Sundhedsvidenskabeligt universitetsfakultet | Autorisation som tandlæge, udstedt af Sundhedsstyrelsen | Tandlæge | 28 January 1980 | Deutschland | Zeugnis über die Zahnärztliche Prüfung | Zuständige Behörden | | Zahnarzt | 28 January 1980 | Eesti | Diplom hambaarstiteaduse õppekava läbimise kohta | Tartu Ülikool | | Hambaarst | 1 May 2004 | Ελλάς | Πτυχίo Οδovτιατρικής | Παvεπιστήμιo | | Οδοντίατρος ή χειρούργος οδοντίατρος | 1 January 1981 | España | Título de Licenciado en Odontología | El rector de una universidad | | Licenciado en odontología | 1 January 1986 | France | Diplôme d'Etat de docteur en chirurgie dentaire | Universités | | Chirurgien-dentiste | 28 January 1980 | Ireland | Bachelor in Dental Science (B.Dent.Sc.)Bachelor of Dental Surgery (BDS)Licentiate in Dental Surgery (LDS) | UniversitiesRoyal College of Surgeons in Ireland | | DentistDental practitionerDental surgeon | 28 January 1980 | Italia | Diploma di laurea in Odontoiatria e Protesi Dentaria | Università | Diploma di abilitazione all'esercizio della professione di odontoiatra | Odontoiatra | 28 January 1980 | Κύπρος | Πιστοποιητικό Εγγραφής Οδοντιάτρου | Οδοντιατρικό Συμβούλιο | | Οδοντίατρος | 1 May 2004 | Latvija | Zobārsta diploms | Universitātes tipa augstskola | Rezidenta diploms par zobārsta pēcdiploma izglītības programmas pabeigšanu, ko izsniedz universitātes tipa augstskola un "Sertifikāts" — kompetentas iestādes izsniegts dokuments, kas apliecina, ka persona ir nokārtojusi sertifikācijas eksāmenu zobārstniecībā | Zobārsts | 1 May 2004 | Lietuva | Aukštojo mokslo diplomas, nurodantis suteiktą gydytojo odontologo kvalifikaciją | Universitetas | Internatūros pažymėjimas, nurodantis suteiktą gydytojo odontologo profesinę kvalifikaciją | Gydytojas odontologas | 1 May 2004 | Luxembourg | Diplôme d'Etat de docteur en médecine dentaire | Jury d'examen d'Etat | | Médecin-dentiste | 28 January 1980 | Magyarország | Fogorvos oklevél (doctor medicinae dentariae, röv.: dr.
dent.) | Egyetem | | Fogorvos | 1 May 2004 | Malta | Lawrja fil- Kirurġija Dentali | Universita` ta Malta | | Kirurgu Dentali | 1 May 2004 | Nederland | Universitair getuigschrift van een met goed gevolg afgelegd tandartsexamen | Faculteit Tandheelkunde | | Tandarts | 28 January 1980 | Österreich | Bescheid über die Verleihung des akademischen Grades "Doktor der Zahnheilkunde" | Medizinische Fakultät der Universität | | Zahnarzt | 1 January 1994 | Polska | Dyplom ukończenia studiów wyższych z tytułem "lekarz dentysta" | 1.Akademia Medyczna,2.Uniwersytet Medyczny,3.Collegium Medicum Uniwersytetu Jagiellońskiego | Lekarsko — Dentystyczny Egzamin Państwowy | Lekarz dentysta | 1 May 2004 | Portugal | Carta de curso de licenciatura em medicina dentária | FaculdadesInstitutos Superiores | | Médico dentista | 1 January 1986 | Slovenija | Diploma, s katero se podeljuje strokovni naslov "doktor dentalne medicine/doktorica dentalne medicine" | Univerza | Potrdilo o opravljenem strokovnem izpitu za poklic zobozdravnik/zobozdravnica | Doktor dentalne medicine/Doktorica dentalne medicine | 1 May 2004 | Slovensko | Vysokoškolský diplom o udelení akademického titulu "doktor zubného lekárstva" ("MDDr.") | Vysoká škola | | Zubný lekár | 1 May 2004 | Suomi/ Finland | Hammaslääketieteen lisensiaatin tutkinto/Odontologie licentiatexamen | Helsingin yliopisto/Helsingfors universitetOulun yliopistoTurun yliopisto | Terveydenhuollon oikeusturvakeskuksen päätös käytännön palvelun hyväksymisestä/Beslut av Rättskyddscentralen för hälsovården om godkännande av praktisk tjänstgöring | Hammaslääkäri/Tandläkare | 1 January 1994 | Sverige | Tandläkarexamen | Universitetet i UmeåUniversitetet i GöteborgKarolinska InstitutetMalmö Högskola | Endast för examensbevis som erhållits före den 1 juli 1995, ett utbildningsbevis som utfärdats av Socialstyrelsen | Tandläkare | 1 January 1994 | United Kingdom | Bachelor of Dental Surgery (BDS or B.Ch.D.)Licentiate in Dental Surgery | UniversitiesRoyal Colleges | | DentistDental practitionerDental surgeon | 28 January 1980 | 5.3.3.
Evidence of formal qualifications of specialised dentists Orthodontics | Country | Evidence of formal qualifications | Body awarding the evidence of qualifications | Reference date | België/Belgique/Belgien | Titre professionnel particulier de dentiste spécialiste en orthodontie/Bijzondere beroepstitel van tandarts specialist in de orthodontie | Ministre de la Santé publique/Minister bevoegd voor Volksgezondheid | 27 January 2005 | Danmark | Bevis for tilladelse til at betegne sig som specialtandlæge i ortodonti | Sundhedsstyrelsen | 28 January 1980 | Deutschland | Fachzahnärztliche Anerkennung für Kieferorthopädie; | Landeszahnärztekammer | 28 January 1980 | Eesti | Residentuuri lõputunnistus ortodontia erialal | Tartu Ülikool | 1 May 2004 | Ελλάς | Τίτλoς Οδovτιατρικής ειδικότητας της Ορθoδovτικής | Νoμαρχιακή ΑυτoδιoίκησηΝoμαρχία | 1 January 1981 | France | Titre de spécialiste en orthodontie | Conseil National de l'Ordre des chirurgiens dentistes | 28 January 1980 | Ireland | Certificate of specialist dentist in orthodontics | Competent authority recognised for this purpose by the competent minister | 28 January 1980 | Italia | Diploma di specialista in Ortognatodonzia | Università | 21 May 2005 | Κύπρος | Πιστοποιητικό Αναγνώρισης του Ειδικού Οδοντιάτρου στην Ορθοδοντική | Οδοντιατρικό Συμβούλιο | 1 May 2004 | Latvija | "Sertifikāts"— kompetentas iestādes izsniegts dokuments, kas apliecina, ka persona ir nokārtojusi sertifikācijas eksāmenu ortodontijā | Latvijas Ārstu biedrība | 1 May 2004 | Lietuva | Rezidentūros pažymėjimas, nurodantis suteiktą gydytojo ortodonto profesinę kvalifikaciją | Universitetas | 1 May 2004 | Magyarország | Fogszabályozás szakorvosa bizonyítvány | Az Egészségügyi, Szociális és Családügyi Minisztérium illetékes testülete | 1 May 2004 | Malta | Ċertifikat ta' speċjalista dentali fl-Ortodonzja | Kumitat ta' Approvazzjoni dwar Speċjalisti | 1 May 2004 | Nederland | Bewijs van inschrijving als orthodontist in het Specialistenregister | Specialisten Registratie Commissie (SRC) van de Nederlandse Maatschappij tot bevordering der Tandheelkunde | 28 January 1980 | Polska | Dyplom uzyskania tytułu specjalisty w dziedzinie ortodoncji | Centrum Egzaminów Medycznych | 1 May 2004 | Slovenija | Potrdilo o opravljenem specialističnem izpitu iz čeljustne in zobne ortopedije | 1.Ministrstvo za zdravje2.Zdravniška zbornica Slovenije | 1 May 2004 | Suomi/Finland | Erikoishammaslääkärin tutkinto, hampaiston oikomishoito/Specialtand-läkarexamen, tandreglering | Helsingin yliopisto/Helsingfors universitetOulun yliopistoTurun yliopisto | 1 January 1994 | Sverige | Bevis om specialistkompetens i tandreglering | Socialstyrelsen | 1 January 1994 | United Kingdom | Certificate of Completion of specialist training in orthodontics | Competent authority recognised for this purpose | 28 January 1980 | Oral surgery | Country | Evidence of formal qualifications | Body awarding the evidence of qualifications | Reference date | Danmark | Bevis for tilladelse til at betegne sig som specialtandlæge i hospitalsodontologi | Sundhedsstyrelsen | 28 January 1980 | Deutschland | Fachzahnärztliche Anerkennung für Oralchirurgie/Mundchirurgie | Landeszahnärztekammer | 28 January 1980 | Ελλάς | Τίτλoς Οδovτιατρικής ειδικότητας της Γvαθoχειρoυργικής (up to 31 December 2002) | Νoμαρχιακή ΑυτoδιoίκησηΝoμαρχία | 1 January 2003 | Ireland | Certificate of specialist dentist in oral surgery | Competent authority recognised for this purpose by the competent minister | 28 January 1980 | Italia | Diploma di specialista in Chirurgia Orale | Università | 21 May 2005 | Κύπρος | Πιστοποιητικό Αναγνώρισης του Ειδικού Οδοντιάτρου στην Στοματική Χειρουργική | Οδοντιατρικό Συμβούλιο | 1 May 2004 | Lietuva | Rezidentūros pažymėjimas, nurodantis suteiktą burnos chirurgo profesinę kvalifikaciją | Universitetas | 1 May 2004 | Magyarország | Dento-alveoláris sebészet szakorvosa bizonyítvány | Az Egészségügyi, Szociális és Családügyi Minisztérium illetékes testülete | 1 May 2004 | Malta | Ċertifikat ta' speċjalista dentali fil-Kirurġija tal-ħalq | Kumitat ta' Approvazzjoni dwar Speċjalisti | 1 May 2004 | Nederland | Bewijs van inschrijving als kaakchirurg in het Specialistenregister | Specialisten Registratie Commissie (SRC) van de Nederlandse Maatschappij tot bevordering der Tandheelkunde | 28 January 1980 | Polska | Dyplom uzyskania tytułu specjalisty w dziedzinie chirurgii stomatologicznej | Centrum Egzaminów Medycznych | 1 May 2004 | Slovenija | Potrdilo o opravljenem specialističnem izpitu iz oralne kirurgije | 1.Ministrstvo za zdravje2.Zdravniška zbornica Slovenije | 1 May 2004 | Suomi/ Finland | Erikoishammaslääkärin tutkinto, suu- ja leuka-kirurgia/Specialtandläkar-examen, oral och maxillofacial kirurgi | Helsingin yliopisto/Helsingfors universitetOulun yliopistoTurun yliopisto | 1 January 1994 | Sverige | Bevis om specialist-kompetens i tandsystemets kirurgiska sjukdomar | Socialstyrelsen | 1 January 1994 | United Kingdom | Certificate of completion of specialist training in oral surgery | Competent authority recognised for this purpose | 28 January 1980 | V.4.
Evidence of formal qualifications of veterinary surgeons Country | Evidence of formal qualifications | Body awarding the evidence of qualifications | Certificate accompanying the evidence of qualifications | Reference date | België/Belgique/Belgien | Diploma van dierenarts/Diplôme de docteur en médecine vétérinaire | De universiteiten/Les universitésDe bevoegde Examen-commissie van de Vlaamse Gemeenschap/Le Jury compétent d'enseignement de la Communauté française | | 21 December 1980 | Česká republika | Diplom o ukončení studia ve studijním programu veterinární lékařství (doktor veterinární medicíny, MVDr.)Diplom o ukončení studia ve studijním programu veterinární hygiena a ekologie (doktor veterinární medicíny, MVDr.) | Veterinární fakulta univerzity v České republice | | 1 May 2004 | Danmark | Bevis for bestået kandidateksamen i veterinærvidenskab | Kongelige Veterinær- og Landbohøjskole | | 21 December 1980 | Deutschland | Zeugnis über das Ergebnis des Dritten Abscnitts der Tierärztlichen Prüfung und das Gesamtergebnis der Tierärztlichen Prüfung | Der Vorsitzende des Prüfungsausschusses für die Tierärztliche Prüfung einer Universität oder Hochschule | | 21 December 1980 | Eesti | Diplom: täitnud veterinaarmeditsiini õppekava | Eesti Põllumajandusülikool | | 1 May 2004 | Ελλάς | Πτυχίo Κτηvιατρικής | Πανεπιστήμιο Θεσσαλονίκης και Θεσσαλίας | | 1 January 1981 | España | Título de Licenciado en Veterinaria | Ministerio de Educación y CulturaEl rector de una universidad | | 1 January 1986 | France | Diplôme d'Etat de docteur vétérinaire | | | 21 December 1980 | Ireland | Diploma of Bachelor in/of Veterinary Medicine (MVB)Diploma of Membership of the Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons (MRCVS) | | | 21 December 1980 | Italia | Diploma di laurea in medicina veterinaria | Università | Diploma di abilitazione all'esercizio della medicina veterinaria | 1 January 1985 | Κύπρος | Πιστοποιητικό Εγγραφής Kτηνιάτρου | Κτηνιατρικό Συμβούλιο | | 1 May 2004 | Latvija | Veterinārārsta diploms | Latvijas Lauksaimniecības Universitāte | | 1 May 2004 | Lietuva | Aukštojo mokslo diplomas (veterinarijos gydytojo (DVM)) | Lietuvos Veterinarijos Akademija | | 1 May 2004 | Luxembourg | Diplôme d'Etat de docteur en médecine vétérinaire | Jury d'examen d'Etat | | 21 December 1980 | Magyarország | Állatorvos doktor oklevél — dr.
vet. | Szent István Egyetem Állatorvos-tudományi Kar | | 1 May 2004 | Malta | Liċenzja ta' Kirurgu Veterinarju | Kunsill tal-Kirurġi Veterinarji | | 1 May 2004 | Nederland | Getuigschrift van met goed gevolg afgelegd diergeneeskundig/veeartse-nijkundig examen | | | 21 December 1980 | Österreich | Diplom-TierarztMagister medicinae veterinariae | Universität | Doktor der VeterinärmedizinDoctor medicinae veterinariaeFachtierarzt | 1 January 1994 | Polska | Dyplom lekarza weterynarii | 1.Szkoła Główna Gospodarstwa Wiejskiego w Warszawie2.Akademia Rolnicza we Wrocławiu3.Akademia Rolnicza w Lublinie4.Uniwersytet Warmińsko-Mazurski w Olsztynie | | 1 May 2004 | Portugal | Carta de curso de licenciatura em medicina veterinária | Universidade | | 1 January 1986 | Slovenija | Diploma, s katero se podeljuje strokovni naslov "doktor veterinarske medicine/doktorica veterinarske medicine" | Univerza | Spričevalo o opravljenem državnem izpitu s področja veterinarstva | 1 May 2004 | Slovensko | Vysokoškolský diplom o udelení akademického titulu "doktor veterinárskej medicíny" ("MVDr.") | Univerzita veterinárskeho lekárstva | | 1 May 2004 | Suomi/ Finland | Eläinlääketieteen lisensiaatin tutkinto/Veterinärmedicine licentiatexamen | Helsingin yliopisto/Helsingfors universitet | | 1 January 1994 | Sverige | Veterinärexamen | Sveriges Lantbruksuniversitet | | 1 January 1994 | United Kingdom | 1.Bachelor of Veterinary Science (BVSc) | 1.University of Bristol | | 21 December 1980 | 2.Bachelor of Veterinary Science (BVSc) | 2.University of Liverpool | 3.Bachelor of Veterinary Medicine (BvetMB) | 3.University of Cambridge | 4.Bachelor of Veterinary Medicine and Surgery (BVM%amp%S) | 4.University of Edinburgh | 5.Bachelor of Veterinary Medicine and Surgery (BVM%amp%S) | 5.University of Glasgow | 6.Bachelor of Veterinary Medicine (BvetMed) | 6.University of London | V.5.
Training programme for midwives (Training types I and II) The training programme for obtaining evidence of formal qualifications in midwifery consists of the following two parts: A.
Evidence of formal qualifications of midwives Country | Evidence of formal qualifications | Body awarding the evidence of qualifications | Professional title | Reference date | België/Belgique/Belgien | Diploma van vroedvrouw/Diplôme d'accoucheuse | De erkende opleidingsinstituten/Les établissements d'enseignementDe bevoegde Examen- commissie van de Vlaamse Gemeenschap/Le Jury compétent d'enseignement de la Communauté française | Vroedvrouw/Accoucheuse | 23 January 1983 | Česká republika | 1.Diplom o ukončení studia ve studijním programu ošetřovatelství ve studijním oboru porodní asistentka (bakalář, Bc.)Vysvědčení o státní závěrečné zkoušce | 1.Vysoká škola zřízená nebo uznaná státem | Porodní asistentka/porodní asistent | 1 May 2004 | 2.Diplom o ukončení studia ve studijním oboru diplomovaná porodní asistentka (diplomovaný specialista, DiS.)Vysvědčení o absolutoriu | 2.Vyšší odborná škola zřízená nebo uznaná státem | Danmark | Bevis for bestået jordemodereksamen | Danmarks jordemoderskole | Jordemoder | 23 January 1983 | Deutschland | Zeugnis über die staatliche Prüfung für Hebammen und Entbindungspfleger | Staatlicher Prüfungsausschuss | HebammeEntbindungspfleger | 23 January 1983 | Eesti | Diplom ämmaemanda erialal | 1.Tallinna Meditsiinikool2.Tartu Meditsiinikool | Ämmaemand | 1 May 2004 | Ελλάς | 1.Πτυχίο Τμήματος Μαιευτικής Τεχνολογικών Εκπαιδευτικών Ιδρυμάτων (Τ.Ε.Ι.) | 1.Τεχνολογικά Εκπαιδευτικά Ιδρύματα (Τ.Ε.Ι.) | ΜαίαΜαιευτής | 23 January 1983 | 2.Πτυχίο του Τμήματος Μαιών της Ανωτέρας Σχολής Στελεχών Υγείας και Κοινων. Πρόνοιας (ΚΑΤΕΕ) | 2.ΚΑΤΕΕ Υπουργείου Εθνικής Παιδείας και Θρησκευμάτων | 3.Πτυχίο Μαίας Ανωτέρας Σχολής Μαιών | 3.Υπουργείο Υγείας και Πρόνοιας | España | Título de MatronaTítulo de Asistente obstétrico (matrona)Título de Enfermería obstétrica-ginecológica | Ministerio de Educación y Cultura | MatronaAsistente obstétrico | 1 January 1986 | France | Diplôme de sage-femme | L'Etat | Sage-femme | 23 January 1983 | Ireland | Certificate in Midwifery | An Board Altranais | Midwife | 23 January 1983 | Italia | Diploma d'ostetrica | Scuole riconosciute dallo Stato | Ostetrica | 23 January 1983 | Κύπρος | Δίπλωμα στο μεταβασικό πρόγραμμα Μαιευτικής | Νοσηλευτική Σχολή | Εγγεγραμμένη Μαία | 1 May 2004 | Latvija | Diploms par vecmātes kvalifikācijas iegūšanu | Māsu skolas | Vecmāte | 1 May 2004 | Lietuva | 1.Aukštojo mokslo diplomas, nurodantis suteiktą bendrosios praktikos slaugytojo profesinę kvalifikaciją, ir profesinės kvalifikacijos pažymėjimas, nurodantis suteiktą akušerio profesinę kvalifikacijąPažymėjimas, liudijantis profesinę praktiką akušerijoje | 1.Universitetas | Akušeris | 1 May 2004 | 2.Aukštojo mokslo diplomas (neuniversitetinės studijos), nurodantis suteiktą bendrosios praktikos slaugytojo profesinę kvalifikaciją, ir profesinės kvalifikacijos pažymėjimas, nurodantis suteiktą akušerio profesinę kvalifikacijąPažymėjimas, liudijantis profesinę praktiką akušerijoje | 2.Kolegija | 3.Aukštojo mokslo diplomas (neuniversitetinės studijos), nurodantis suteiktą akušerio profesinę kvalifikaciją | 3.Kolegija | Luxembourg | Diplôme de sage-femme | Ministère de l'éducation nationale, de la formation professionnelle et des sports | Sage-femme | 23 January 1983 | Magyarország | Szülésznő bizonyítvány | Iskola/főiskola | Szülésznő | 1 May 2004 | Malta | Lawrja jew diploma fl- Istudji tal-Qwiebel | Universita` ta' Malta | Qabla | 1 May 2004 | Nederland | Diploma van verloskundige | Door het Ministerie van Volksgezondheid, Welzijn en Sport erkende opleidings-instellingen | Verloskundige | 23 January 1983 | Österreich | Hebammen-Diplom | HebammenakademieBundeshebammenlehranstalt | Hebamme | 1 January 1994 | Polska | Dyplom ukończenia studiów wyższych na kierunku położnictwo z tytułem "magister położnictwa" | Instytucja prowadząca kształcenie na poziomie wyższym uznana przez właściwe władze (Higher educational institution recognised by the competent authorities) | Położna | 1 May 2004 | Portugal | 1.Diploma de enfermeiro especialista em enfermagem de saúde materna e obstétrica | 1.Ecolas de Enfermagem | Enfermeiro especialista em enfermagem de saúde materna e obstétrica | 1 January 1986 | 2.Diploma/carta de curso de estudos superiores especializados em enfermagem de saúde materna e obstétrica | 2.Escolas Superiores de Enfermagem | 3.Diploma (do curso de pós-licenciatura) de especialização em enfermagem de saúde materna e obstétrica | 3.Escolas Superiores de EnfermagemEscolas Superiores de Saúde | Slovenija | Diploma, s katero se podeljuje strokovni naslov "diplomirana babica/diplomirani babičar" | 1.Univerza2.Visoka strokovna šola | diplomirana babica/diplomirani babičar | 1 May 2004 | Slovensko | 1.Vysokoškolský diplom o udelení akademického titulu "bakalár z pôrodnej asistencie" ("Bc.")2.Absolventský diplom v študijnom odbore diplomovaná pôrodná asistentka | 1.Vysoká škola2.Stredná zdravotnícka škola | Pôrodná asistentka | 1 May 2004 | Suomi/ Finland | 1.Kätilön tutkinto/barnmorskeexamen | 1.Terveydenhuoltooppi-laitokset/hälsovårdsläroanstalter | Kätilö/Barnmorska | 1 January 1994 | 2.Sosiaali- ja terveysalan ammattikorkeakoulututkinto, kätilö (AMK)/yrkeshögskoleexamen inom hälsovård och det sociala området, barnmorska (YH) | 2.Ammattikorkeakoulut/ Yrkeshögskolor | Sverige | Barnmorskeexamen | Universitet eller högskola | Barnmorska | 1 January 1994 | United Kingdom | Statement of registration as a Midwife on part 10 of the register kept by the United Kingdom Central Council for Nursing, Midwifery and Health visiting | Various | Midwife | 23 January 1983 | V.6.
PHARMACIST 5.6.1.
Evidence of formal qualifications of pharmacists Country | Evidence of formal qualifications | Body awarding the evidence of qualifications | Certificate accompanying the diploma | Reference date | België/Belgique/Belgien | Diploma van apotheker/Diplôme de pharmacien | De universiteiten/Les universitésDe bevoegde Examencommissie van de Vlaamse Gemeenschap/Le Jury compétent d'enseignement de la Communauté française | | 1 October 1987 | Česká republika | Diplom o ukončení studia ve studijním programu farmacie (magistr, Mgr.) | Farmaceutická fakulta univerzity v České republice | Vysvědčení o státní závěrečné zkoušce | 1 May 2004 | Danmark | Bevis for bestået farmaceutisk kandidateksamen | Danmarks Farmaceutiske Højskole | | 1 October 1987 | Deutschland | Zeugnis über die Staatliche Pharmazeutische Prüfung | Zuständige Behörden | | 1 October 1987 | Eesti | Diplom proviisori õppekava läbimisest | Tartu Ülikool | | 1 May 2004 | Ελλάς | Άδεια άσκησης φαρμακευτικού επαγγέλματος | Νομαρχιακή Αυτοδιοίκηση | | 1 October 1987 | España | Título de Licenciado en Farmacia | Ministerio de Educación y CulturaEl rector de una universidad | | 1 October 1987 | France | Diplôme d'Etat de pharmacienDiplôme d'Etat de docteur en pharmacie | Universités | | 1 October 1987 | Ireland | Certificate of Registered Pharmaceutical Chemist | | | 1 October 1987 | Italia | Diploma o certificato di abilitazione all'esercizio della professione di farmacista ottenuto in seguito ad un esame di Stato | Università | | 1 November 1993 | Κύπρος | Πιστοποιητικό Εγγραφής Φαρμακοποιού | Συμβούλιο Φαρμακευτικής | | 1 May 2004 | Latvija | Farmaceita diploms | Universitātes tipa augstskola | | 1 May 2004 | Lietuva | Aukštojo mokslo diplomas, nurodantis suteiktą vaistininko profesinę kvalifikaciją | Universitetas | | 1 May 2004 | Luxembourg | Diplôme d'Etat de pharmacien | Jury d'examen d'Etat + visa du ministre de l'éducation nationale | | 1 October 1987 | Magyarország | Okleveles gyógyszerész oklevél (magister pharmaciae, röv: mag.
Pharm) | EG Egyetem | | 1 May 2004 | Malta | Lawrja fil-farmaċija | Universita` ta' Malta | | 1 May 2004 | Nederland | Getuigschrift van met goed gevolg afgelegd apothekersexamen | Faculteit Farmacie | | 1 October 1987 | Österreich | Staatliches Apothekerdiplom | Bundesministerium für Arbeit, Gesundheit und Soziales | | 1 October 1994 | Polska | Dyplom ukończenia studiów wyższych na kierunku farmacja z tytułem magistra | 1.Akademia Medyczna2.Uniwersytet Medyczny3.Collegium Medicum Uniwersytetu Jagiellońskiego | | 1 May 2004 | Portugal | Carta de curso de licenciatura em Ciências Farmacêuticas | Universidades | | 1 October 1987 | Slovenija | Diploma, s katero se podeljuje strokovni naziv "magister farmacije/magistra farmacije" | Univerza | Potrdilo o opravljenem strokovnem izpitu za poklic magister farmacije/magistra farmacije | 1 May 2004 | Slovensko | Vysokoškolský diplom o udelení akademického titulu "magister farmácie" ("Mgr.") | Vysoká škola | | 1 May 2004 | Suomi/ Finland | Proviisorin tutkinto/Provisorexamen | Helsingin yliopisto/Helsingfors universitetKuopion yliopisto | | 1 October 1994 | Sverige | Apotekarexamen | Uppsala universitet | | 1 October 1994 | United Kingdom | Certificate of Registered Pharmaceutical Chemist | | | 1 October 1987 | V. 7.
ARCHITECT 5.7.1.
Evidence of formal qualifications of architects recognised pursuant to Article 46 Country | Evidence of formal qualifications | Body awarding the evidence of qualifications | Certificate accompanying the evidence of qualifications | Reference academic year | België/ Belgique/ Belgien | 1.Architect/Architecte2.Architect/Architecte3.Architect4.Architect/Architecte5.Architect/Architecte6.Burgelijke ingenieur-architect | 1.Nationale hogescholen voor architectuur2.Hogere-architectuur-instituten3.Provinciaal Hoger Instituut voor Architectuur te Hasselt4.Koninklijke Academies voor Schone Kunsten5.Sint-Lucasscholen6.Faculteiten Toegepaste Wetenschappen van de Universiteiten6."Faculté Polytechnique" van Mons | | 1988/1989 | 1.Architecte/Architect2.Architecte/Architect3.Architect4.Architecte/Architect5.Architecte/Architect6.Ingénieur-civil — architecte | 1.Ecoles nationales supérieures d'architecture2.Instituts supérieurs d'architecture3.Ecole provinciale supérieure d'architecture de Hasselt4.Académies royales des Beaux-Arts5.Ecoles Saint-Luc6.Facultés des sciences appliquées des universités6.Faculté polytechnique de Mons | Danmark | Arkitekt cand.
Arch)) | 2.Dublin Institute of Technology, Bolton Street, Dublin(College of Technology, Bolton Street, Dublin) | 3.Certificate of associateship (ARIAI) | 3.Royal Institute of Architects of Ireland | 4.Certificate of membership (MRIAI) | 4.Royal Institute of Architects of Ireland | Italia | —Laurea in architettura | Università di CamerinoUniversità di Catania — Sede di SiracusaUniversità di ChietiUniversità di FerraraUniversità di FirenzeUniversità di GenovaUniversità di Napoli Federico IIUniversità di Napoli IIUniversità di PalermoUniversità di ParmaUniversità di Reggio CalabriaUniversità di Roma "La Sapienza"Universtià di Roma IIIUniversità di TriestePolitecnico di BariPolitecnico di MilanoPolitecnico di TorinoIstituto universitario di architettura di Venezia | Diploma di abilitazione all'esercizo indipendente della professione che viene rilasciato dal ministero della Pubblica istruzione dopo che il candidato ha sostenuto con esito positivo l'esame di Stato davanti ad una commissione competente | 1988/1989 | —Laurea in ingegneria edile — architettura | Università dell'AquillaUniversità di PaviaUniversità di Roma"La Sapienza" | Diploma di abilitazione all'esercizo indipendente della professione che viene rilasciato dal ministero della Pubblica istruzione dopo che il candidato ha sostenuto con esito positivo l'esame di Stato davanti ad una commissione competente | 1998/1999 | —Laurea specialistica in ingegneria edile — architettura | Università dell'AquillaUniversità di PaviaUniversità di Roma "La Sapienza"Università di AnconaUniversità di Basilicata — PotenzaUniversità di PisaUniversità di BolognaUniversità di CataniaUniversità di GenovaUniversità di PalermoUniversità di Napoli Federico IIUniversità di Roma — Tor VergataUniversità di TrentoPolitecnico di BariPolitecnico di Milano | Diploma di abilitazione all'esercizo indipendente della professione che viene rilasciato dal ministero della Pubblica istruzione dopo che il candidato ha sostenuto con esito positivo l'esame di Stato davanti ad una commissione competente | 2003/2004 | Laurea specialistica quinquennale in ArchitetturaLaurea specialistica quinquennale in ArchitetturaLaurea specialistica quinquennale in ArchitetturaLaurea specialistica in Architettura | Prima Facoltà di Architettura dell'Università di Roma "La Sapienza"Università di FerraraUniversità di GenovaUniversità di PalermoPolitecnico di MilanoPolitecnico di BariUniversità di Roma IIIUniversità di FirenzeUniversità di Napoli IIPolitecnico di Milano II | Diploma di abilitazione all'esercizo indipendente della professione che viene rilasciato dal ministero della Pubblica istruzione dopo che il candidato ha sostenuto con esito positivo l'esame di Stato davanti ad una commissione competente Diploma di abilitazione all'esercizo indipendente della professione che viene rilasciato dal ministero della Pubblica istruzione dopo che il candidato ha sostenuto con esito positivo l'esame di Stato davanti ad una commissione competente Diploma di abilitazione all'esercizo indipendente della professione che viene rilasciato dal ministero della Pubblica istruzione dopo che il candidato ha sostenuto con esito positivo l'esame di Stato davanti ad una commissione competente Diploma di abilitazione all'esercizo indipendente della professione che viene rilasciato dal ministero della Pubblica istruzione dopo che il candidato ha sostenuto con esito positivo l'esame di Stato davanti ad una commissione competente | 1998/1999 1999/2000 2003/2004 2004/2005 | Nederland | 1.Het getuigschrift van het met goed gevolg afgelegde doctoraal examen van de studierichting bouwkunde, afstudeerrichting architectuur | 1.Technische Universiteit te Delft | Verklaring van de Stichting Bureau Architectenregister die bevestigt dat de opleiding voldoet aan de normen van artikel 46. | 1988/1989 | 2.Het getuigschrift van het met goed gevolg afgelegde doctoraal examen van de studierichting bouwkunde, differentiatie architectuur en urbanistiek | 2.Technische Universiteit te Eindhoven | 3.Het getuigschrift hoger beroepsonderwijs, op grond van het met goed gevolg afgelegde examen verbonden aan de opleiding van de tweede fase voor beroepen op het terrein van de architectuur, afgegeven door de betrokken examencommissies van respectievelijk:de Amsterdamse Hogeschool voor de Kunsten te Amsterdamde Hogeschool Rotterdam en omstreken te Rotterdamde Hogeschool Katholieke Leergangen te Tilburgde Hogeschool voor de Kunsten te Arnhemde Rijkshogeschool Groningen te Groningende Hogeschool Maastricht te Maastricht | | Österreich | 1.Diplom-Ingenieur, Dipl.-Ing. | 1.Technische Universität Graz (Erzherzog-Johann-Universität Graz) | | 1998/1999 | 2.Dilplom-Ingenieur, Dipl.-Ing. | 2.Technische Universität Wien | 3.Diplom-Ingenieur, Dipl.-Ing. | 3.Universität Innsbruck (Leopold-Franzens-Universität Innsbruck) | 4.Magister der Architektur, Magister architecturae, Mag.
Also EU nationals who do not possess the ARB-recognised Part I and Part II certificates will be eligible for the Certificate of Architectural Education if they can satisfy the Board that their standard and length of education has met the requisite threshold standards of Article 46 of this Directive and of the Criteria for validation. | 1988/1989 | 2.Degrees in architecture | 2.Universities | | 3.Final examination | 3.Architectural Association | | 4.Examination in architecture | 4.Royal College of Art | | 5.Examination Part II | 5.Royal Institute of British Architects | | [1] 1 January 1983 [2] 1 January 1983 [3] 1 August 1987 except for persons having commenced training before that date [4] 31 December 1971 [5] 31 October 1999 [6] Evidence of qualifications is no longer awarded for training commenced after 5 March 1982 [7] 9 July 1984 [8] 3 December 1971 [9] 31 October 1993 [10] Evidence of qualifications is no longer awarded for training commenced after 5 March 1982 [11] 8 July 1984 [12] 1 January 1983, except for persons having commenced training before that date and completing it before the end of 1988 [13] 31 December 1994 [14] 1 January 1983 [15] Training leading to the award of evidence of formal qualifications as a specialist in dental, oral and maxillo-facial surgery (basic medical and dental training) assumes completion and validation of basic medical studies (Article 24) and, in addition, completion and validation of basic dental studies (Article 34). [16] Diese Diplome sind je nach Dauer der durch sie abgeschlossenen Ausbildung gemäß Artikel 47 Absatz 1 anzuerkennen. -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX VI Acquired rights applicable to the professions subject to recognition on the basis of coordination of the minimum training conditions 6.
Evidence of formal qualifications of architects benefiting from acquired rights pursuant to Article 49(1) Country | Evidence of formal qualifications | Reference academic year | België/Belgique/Belgien | the diplomas awarded by the higher national schools of architecture or the higher national institutes of architecture (architecte-architect)the diplomas awarded by the higher provincial school of architecture of Hasselt (architect)the diplomas awarded by the Royal Academies of Fine Arts (architecte — architect)the diplomas awarded by the "écoles Saint-Luc" (architecte — architect)university diplomas in civil engineering, accompanied by a traineeship certificate awarded by the association of architects entitling the holder to hold the professional title of architect (architecte — architect)the diplomas in architecture awarded by the central or State examining board for architecture (architecte — architect)the civil engineering/architecture diplomas and architecture/engineering diplomas awarded by the faculties of applied sciences of the universities and by the Polytechnical Faculty of Mons (ingénieur — architecte, ingénieur-architect) | 1987/1988 | Česká republika | Diplomas awarded by the faculties of "České vysoké učení technické" (Czech Technical University in Prague):"Vysoká škola architektury a pozemního stavitelství" (Faculty of Architecture and Building Construction) (until 1951),"Fakulta architektury a pozemního stavitelství" (Faculty of Architecture and Building Construction) (from 1951 until 1960),"Fakulta stavební" (Faculty of Civil Engineering) (from 1960) in the fields of study: building construction and structures, building construction, construction and architecture, architecture (including city planning and land use planning), civil construction and construction for industrial and agricultural production, or in the programme of study of civil engineering in the field of study of building construction and architecture,"Fakulta architektury" (Faculty of Architecture) (from 1976) in the fields of study: architecture, city planning and land use planning, or in the programme of study: architecture and city planning in the fields of study: architecture, theory of architecture design, city planning and land use planning, history of architecture and reconstruction of historical monuments, or architecture and building construction,Diplomas awarded by "Vysoká škola technická Dr.
Edvarda Beneše" (until 1951) in the field of architecture and construction,Diplomas awarded by "Vysoká škola stavitelství v Brně" (from 1951 until 1956) in the field of architecture and construction,Diplomas awarded by "Vysoké učení technické v Brně", by "Fakulta architektury" (Faculty of Architecture) (from 1956) in the field of study of architecture and city planning or "Fakulta stavební" (Faculty of Civil Engineering) (from 1956) in the field of study of construction,Diplomas awarded by "Vysoká škola báňská — Technická univerzita Ostrava", "Fakulta stavební" (Faculty of Civil Engineering) (from 1997) in the field of study of structures and architecture or in the field of study of civil engineering,Diplomas awarded by "Technická univerzita v Liberci", "Fakulta architektury" (Faculty of Architecture) (from 1994) in the programme of study of architecture and city planning in the field of study of architecture,Diplomas awarded by "Akademie výtvarných umění v Praze" in the programme of fine arts in the field of study of architectural design,Diplomas awarded by "Vysoká škola umělecko-průmyslová v Praze" in the programme of fine arts in the field of study of architecture,Certificate of the authorisation awarded by "Česká komora architektů" without any specification of the field or in the field of building construction; | 2006/2007 | Danmark | the diplomas awarded by the National Schools of Architecture in Copenhagen and Aarhus (architekt)the certificate of registration issued by the Board of Architects pursuant to Law No 202 of 28 May 1975 (registreret arkitekt)diplomas awarded by the Higher Schools of Civil Engineering (bygningskonstruktoer), accompanied by a certificate from the competent authorities to the effect that the person concerned has passed a test of his formal qualifications, comprising an appreciation of plans drawn up and executed by the candidate during at least six years' effective practice of the activities referred to in Article 48 of this Directive | 1987/1988 | Deutschland | the diplomas awarded by higher institutes of fine arts (Dipl.-Ing., Architekt (HfbK)the diplomas awarded by the departments of architecture (Architektur/Hochbau) of "Technische Hochschulen", of technical universities, of universities and, in so far as these institutions have been merged into "Gesamthochschulen", of "Gesamthochschulen" (Dipl.-Ing.
and any other title which may be laid down later for holders of these diplomas)the diplomas awarded by the departments of architecture (Architektur/Hochbau) of "Fachhochschulen" and, in so far as these institutions have been merged into "Gesamthochschulen", by the departments of architecture (Architektur/Hochbau) of "Gesamthochschulen", accompanied, where the period of study is less than four years but at least three years, by a certificate attesting to a four-year period of professional experience in the Federal Republic of Germany issued by the professional body in accordance with Article 47(1) (Ingenieur grad.
Arch.)the Certificate of Associateship of the Royal Institute of Architects of Ireland (ARIAI)the Certificate of Membership of the Royal Institute of Architects of Ireland (MRIAI | 1987/1988 | Italia | "laurea in architettura" diplomas awarded by universities, polytechnic institutes and the higher institutes of architecture of Venice and Reggio Calabria, accompanied by the diploma entitling the holder to pursue independently the profession of architect, awarded by the Minister for Education after the candidate has passed, before a competent board, the State examination entitling him to pursue independently the profession of architect (dott.
Architetto)"laurea in ingegneria" diplomas in building construction awarded by universities and polytechnic institutes, accompanied by the diploma entitling the holder to pursue independently a profession in the field of architecture, awarded by the Minister for Education after the candidate has passed, before a competent board, the State examination entitling him to pursue the profession independently (dott.
in 1990 — 1992; Mgr.
in 1992 — 1996; Mgr.
since 1997),Diploma in the field of study "building construction" ("pozemné staviteľstvo") awarded by the Civil Engineering Faculty of the Technical University (Stavebná fakulta, Technická univerzita) in Košice in 1981- 1991 (title: Ing.),All these diplomas must be accompanied by: Authorisation certificate issued by the Slovak Chamber of Architects (Slovenská komora architektov) in Bratislava without any specification of the field or in the field of "building construction" ("pozemné stavby") or "land use planning" ("územné plánovanie"),Authorisation certificate issued by the Slovak Chamber of Civil Engineers (Slovenská komora stavebných inžinierov) in Bratislava in the field of building construction ("pozemné stavby") | 2006/2007 | Suomi/Finland | the diplomas awarded by the architecture departments of Universities of Technology and the University of Oulu (arkkitehti/arkitekt)the diplomas awarded by the Institutes of Technology (rakennusarkkitehti/byggnadsarkitekt) | 1997/1998 | Sverige | the diplomas awarded by the School of Architecture at the Royal Institute of Technology, the Chalmers Institute of Technology and the Institute of Technology at Lund University (arkitekt, university diploma in architecture)the certificates of membership of the "Svenska Arkitekters Riksförbund" (SAR) if the persons concerned have received their training in a State to which this Directive applies | 1997/1998 | United Kingdom | the qualifications awarded following the passing of examinations of:the Royal Institute of British Architectsschools of architecture at universities, polytechnics, colleges, academies, schools of technology and art which, as of 10 June 1985, were recognised by the Architects Registration Council of the United Kingdom for the purpose of admission to the Register (Architect)a certificate stating that its holder has an acquired right to hold the professional title of architect by virtue of section 6 (1) a, 6 (1) b or 6 (1) of the Architects Registration Act 1931 (Architect)a certificate stating that its holder has an acquired right to hold the professional title of architect by virue of section 2 of the Architects Registration Act 1938 (Architect) | 1987/1988 | -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX VII Documents and certificates which may be required in accordance with Article 50(1) 1.
