This duty was based on the dumping margin found. (2) In November 1993, the Commission received a request for a review, pursuant to Article 14 of Regulation (EEC) No 2423/88 (3), of these measures, lodged by the European Federation of Lighter Manufacturers (EFLM), alleging that there had been an increase in the dumping margin and, consequently, further injury.
The ensuing investigation resulted in a finding of a dumping margin of 80,3 % and the imposition, by Regulation (EC) No 1006/95 (4), of a specific anti-dumping duty on imports of disposable non-refillable flint lighters from the People's Republic of China of ECU 0,065 per piece, (hereinafter referred to as the 'existing measures`). 2.
Request for the initiation of a circumvention investigation (3) On 24 March 1998, a request was lodged by the EFLM, concerning the circumvention of the existing measures (hereinafter referred to as 'the request`).
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 1.1.
Like product (10) The disposable, refillable flint lighters from China were identical in all respects to the disposable, non-refillable flint lighters in the preceding investigation, except for the addition of a refill valve which was determined to be an ineffectual addition for a lighter which in practice was perceived and treated by consumers as disposable (see recitals 16 to 21).
It was therefore determined that these were alike to the lighters subject to the existing measures. 1.3.
Change in the pattern of trade (11) No data was received from lighter producers or exporters in the People's Republic of China.
However, information was obtained from one cooperating importer which purchased disposable, refillable flint lighters during the investigation period and from a Hong Kong company, related to the cooperating producer in Macao, which exported them to the Community.
Together, they accounted for 15 % of the total refillable flint lighter imports from the People's Republic of China to the Community during the investigation period.
Given this low degree of cooperation, the change in the pattern of trade was examined by reference to Eurostat figures. (12) According to Eurostat, imports into the Community of refillable flint lighters from the People's Republic of China have increased substantially from 22,8 million units in 1994 to 144 million units in 1997.
At the same time, imports of disposable, non-refillable lighters from the People's Republic of China decreased from 133,5 million units in 1994 to 6,8 million units in 1997. (13) Part of the imports of refillable flint lighters consist of refillable lighters which are clearly not disposable.
However, the sharply declining average unit price, from ECU 0,37 in 1993 to ECU 0,19 in 1994 and to ECU 0,10 in 1997 provides strong evidence that disposable, refillable flint lighters represent the vast majority of imports from 1994 onwards.
Furthermore, this 1997 average price is even lower than the average unit price of disposable, non-refillable flint lighters from China in the same year. (14) This evolution of quantities and prices coincided in time with the start of the review investigation on Chinese disposable, non-refillable flint lighters at the end of 1993 (6), and the imposition of a higher dumping duty in 1995. 1.4.
Whereas in 1994 imports of Chinese refillable flint lighters accounted for only 7,6 % of total imports of flint lighters, by 1997 this share had increased to 44,2 %.
Over the same period disposable, non-refillable flint lighter imports from the People's Republic of China decreased from 45,0 % to 2,1 % of total imports of flint lighters.
However, the Commission found that, on the one hand, the flints were not readily available in all areas of the Community, while on the other, it was generally not practical, and often impossible, for an ordinary consumer to change the flint. (19) Notwithstanding the reservations above, for the average Community consumer, the maximum theoretical cost saving from refilling disposable, refillable flint lighters (taking into account the cost of gas containers) would be negligible (about ECU 2 per year).
Indeed, as shown above, the vast majority of these imports cannot be, and are not, used as refillable lighters. (26) In terms of quantities, total imports of Chinese refillable flint lighters accounted for about 25 % of estimated Community consumption and about 50 % of total imports of flint lighters during the investigation period.
This was comparable to the proportions of Chinese disposable, non-refillable flint lighters consumed and imported in 1994 (i.e.
Furthermore, both import prices established in the current investigation are significantly lower than the import price of ECU 0,146 which was the price determined in the previous investigation at which the injurious effects of dumping would have been eliminated. (28) It can, therefore, be concluded that disposable, refillable flint lighter imports significantly undermine, both in terms of quantities and of prices, the remedial effects of the anti-dumping duty imposed on disposable, non-refillable flint lighters originating in the People's Republic of China. 1.6.
Evidence of dumping (29) The average fob Chinese frontier export price of disposable refillable flint lighters from the two cooperating companies, referred to in recital 11, during the investigation period was ECU 0,044.
The average cif Community border import price based on Eurostat figures for all Chinese refillable (disposable and non-disposable) flint lighters during the same period was ECU 0,094 which is equivalent to ECU 0,092 on a fob Chinese frontier basis.
Both of these fob values are substantially below the normal value of ECU 0,144 established in the previous investigation and there is therefore clear evidence of dumping. 1.7.
Conclusion (30) In these circumstances, the existing measures should be extended to disposable, refillable flint lighters originating in the People's Republic of China. (31) The existing measures should not be extended to all refillable lighters, but only to those which are clearly like disposable, non-refillable flint lighters.
However, it would not be appropriate to set the threshold below the normal value established in the previous investigation (adjusted to a cif Community frontier basis) which was lower than the injury threshold. (33) Accordingly, the existing duty should be extended to disposable, refillable flint lighters with a plastic tank body, falling within CN code ex 9613 20 90, imported from the People's Republic of China, with a free-at-Community frontier, duty unpaid value per piece of less than EUR 0,15. 2.
This allegation was examined in the light of the provisions of Article 13(1) of the Basic Regulation. (35) At the outset, it is recalled that no company from Taiwan cooperated in the investigation, despite the fact that 29 questionnaires were sent to Taiwanese exporters and that the Taiwanese authorities were duly informed.
According to these statistics, during the investigation period, Taiwanese exports accounted for approximately half of the Community imports from Taiwan as shown in Eurostat. (37) In these circumstances, it was concluded, in accordance with Article 18 of the Basic Regulation, that the imports from Taiwan which could not be accounted for by Taiwanese export statistics, should be considered as being of People's Republic of China origin and transhipped through Taiwan.
In this context, it should be noted that there was evidence of falsified certificates of origin relating to disposable lighters allegedly from the People's Republic of China which were wrongly declared to be of Taiwanese origin included in the complainants' request. (38) As far as the remaining imports from Taiwan are concerned, determinations also had to be made on the basis of the facts available, in accordance with Article 18 of the Basic Regulation.
Change in the pattern of trade (39) Eurostat figures show that imports of disposable, non-refillable flint lighters from Taiwan increased from 7,5 million units in 1994 to 37 million units in 1995.
Subsequently, imports from Taiwan decreased to 33 million units in 1996 and they further decreased to 16 million units in 1997.
In this respect it should be noted that the normal value established in the previous investigation was ECU 0,144 per unit, while the average import price adjusted to a fob Taiwan basis during the investigation period was ECU 0,092. 2.6.
Practice at issue (48) The request alleged that imports of disposable, non-refillable flint lighters from Hong Kong are circumventing the existing measures.
The request submitted that there is no production of disposable, non-refillable flint lighters in Hong Kong and therefore, that any such imports, into the Community, registered by Eurostat, consists of disposable, non-refillable flint lighters originating in the People's Republic of China which have been incorrectly declared as being of Hong Kong origin. (49) No producers from Hong Kong made themselves known during the investigation.
In the course of the investigation further information was received indicating that there is no production of disposable, non-refillable flint lighters in Hong Kong, due to security regulations which restrict the storage of gas in the territory.
Undermining of the remedial effects of the existing measures (50) Imports recorded as originating in Hong Kong during the investigation period represented just over 1 % of Community consumption of disposable, non-refillable flint lighters and 3,8 % of total Community imports of disposable, non-refillable flint lighters. (51) In the course of the present investigation, it was determined that disposable, refillable flint lighters originating in the People's Republic of China were a like product to disposable, non-refillable flint lighters. (52) In order to analyse whether the remedial effects of the existing measures were being undermined, it was necessary to reflect the above finding and adjust the total import volume to include disposable, refillable flint lighters from the People's Republic of China with the total disposable, non-refillable flint lighters. (53) As a result, the Commission found that imports of disposable, non-refillable flint lighters from Hong Kong represented only 2 % of the total imports of non-refillable flint lighters, including Chinese refillable flint lighters, into the Community during the investigation period.
It is therefore considered appropriate to terminate the circumvention investigation with regard to imports of disposable non-refillable flint lighters from Hong Kong. 3.3.
Conclusion (54) On the basis of the above, the existing measures should not be extended to Hong Kong. 4.
Practice at issue (55) The request alleged that imports of disposable, non-refillable flint lighters from Macao are circumventing the existing measures.
The request submitted that any such imports, into the Community, registered by Eurostat, consists of disposable, non-refillable lighters originating in the People's Republic of China which have been incorrectly declared as being of Macao origin. (56) As mentioned in recitals 6 and 7 above, FDI, a producer located in Macao, made itself known, returned a completed questionnaire and was subsequently subject to a verification visit. (57) The allegation was, firstly, examined with respect to this producer, through consideration of the specific criteria laid down in Article 13(2) of the Basic Regulation which apply to assembly operations, inter alia, in a third country. (58) The allegation was then considered with regard to the possibility that disposable non-refillable flint lighters consigned from Macao to the Community are declared to Community customs authorities as having Macao origin although they originate in the People's Republic of China and that such imports are thus circumventing the existing anti-dumping measures.
Sales to the Community in the period 1992 to 1994 were not significant. (60) In December 1993 the Commission announced, by a notice, the initiation of a review of Regulation (EEC) No 3433/91 in respect of imports of disposable, non-refillable flint lighters originating in the People's Republic of China.
Subsequently, exports from FDI into the Community substantially increased to over 60 million units in 1997.
Allegation that disposable, non-refillable lighters consigned from Macao to the Community are declared to Community customs authorities as having Macao origin although they originate in the People's Republic of China (64) It was then considered whether there were exports allegedly originating in Macao, other than those produced by FDI, which could be considered to be circumventing the existing measures. (65) In this respect, it was found that the total imports into the Community from Macao, as recorded by Eurostat, during the period from 1994 to the end of the investigation period, could be accounted for by exports from FDI. (66) In addition, the on-the-spot investigation by the Commission and a representation submitted to the Commission by the Macao delegation of the Portuguese embassy indicated that the production capacity and the actual output of FDI was sufficient to account for the total exports originating in Macao. 4.3.1.
REQUESTS FOR EXEMPTION FROM THE EXTENSION OF THE DUTY (68) The Commission received requests for exemption from the extension of the duty from two importers which approached the Commission after the deadline set in Regulation (EC) No 971/98 for interested parties to make themselves known. (69) One importer, JOJA, France, requested exemption from the measures for three of their products.
The Commission examined these products and determined that they were like products to the products subject to the existing measures and therefore, no exemption should be granted. (70) A second importer, Samaco Ltd from the UK, requested exemption from the measures, on the grounds that their imports were genuinely produced in Taiwan.
Nature of the measures (72) In view of the findings made, the anti-dumping duty in force on gas-fuelled, non-refillable pocket flint lighters originating in the People's Republic of China should be extended to imports of the same lighters consigned from or originating in Taiwan, and to imports of gas-fuelled, refillable lighters, with a plastic tank body, originating in the People's Republic of China or consigned from or originating in Taiwan, with a free-at-Community-frontier, duty unpaid, value per piece of less than EUR 0,15. (73) The investigation concerning Hong Kong and Macao should be terminated. 2.
The definitive anti-dumping duty imposed by Regulation (EEC) No 3433/91 and modified by Regulation (EC) No 1006/95 on imports of gas-fuelled, non-refillable pocket flint lighters falling within CN code 9613 10 00 (TARIC code CN 9613 10 00*11) originating in the People's Republic of China, is hereby extended to imports of the same lighters consigned from or originating in Taiwan and to imports of gas-fuelled, refillable pocket flint lighters, incorporating a plastic tank body, falling within CN code ex 9613 20 90 (TARIC code CN 9613 20 90*21), originating in the People's Republic of China or consigned from or originating in Taiwan. 2.
The request must be sent to the following address: European Commission Directorate-General for External Economic Relations Unit I/C-1 DEMOT 24, 8/38 Rue de la Loi/Wetstraat 200 B-1049 Brussels Fax (32-2) 295 65 05. 2.
Article 3 Customs authorities are hereby directed to discontinue registration, pursuant to Article 2 of Regulation (EC) No 971/98 and Article 14(5) of Regulation (EC) No 384/96, of: (a) refillable pocket flint lighters with a free-at-Community-frontier, duty unpaid, value per piece of less than ECU 0,5 falling within CN code ex 9613 20 90 (TARIC code 9613 20 90*10) and originating in the People's Republic of China; and (b) gas-fuelled, non-refillable pocket flint lighters falling within CN code ex 9613 10 00 (TARIC code 9613 10 00*10) consigned from Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan.
Article 4 This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Done at Brussels, 25 January 1999.
