The Community programme referred to in Article 1 shall comprise targeted actions, concerted actions and accompanying actions, as specified in Articles 5, 6 and 7. 2.
Article 5 Targeted actions The targeted actions shall include: (a) actions promoting the ex situ and in situ conservation, characterisation, collection and utilisation of genetic resources in agriculture; (b) the establishment of a European decentralised, permanent and widely accessible web-based inventory of genetic resources currently conserved in situ including in situ /on farm genetic resources conservation activities; (c) the establishment of a European decentralised, permanent and widely accessible web-based inventory of the ex situ collections (gene banks) and in situ facilities (resources) and databases currently available or being developed on the basis of national inventories; (d) the promotion of regular exchanges of technical and scientific information, in particular on the origins and individual characteristics of available genetic resources, among competent organisations in the Member States.
Article 6 Concerted actions The concerted actions shall promote the exchange of information on thematic issues for the purpose of improving the coordination of actions and programmes for the conservation, characterisation, collection and utilisation of genetic resources in Community agriculture.
Article 7 Accompanying actions The accompanying actions shall include information, dissemination and advisory actions involving the organisation of seminars, technical conferences, meetings with non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and other relevant stakeholders, training courses and the preparation of technical reports.
Article 8 Work programme 1.
Article 9 Selection of actions 1.
The Commission shall, within the work programme referred to in Article 8 and on the basis of calls for proposals for actions published in the C series of the Official Journal of the European Union , select the actions to be financed under the Community programme. 2.
The calls for proposals shall cover the actions and areas referred to in Articles 5, 6 and 7 and in Annex I.
The content of the calls for proposals shall be established in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 15(2) and in compliance with the relevant Articles under Title VI of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities(18). 3.
Article 10 Participation of third countries The Community programme shall be open to the participation of: (a) EFTA/EEA countries in accordance with the conditions established in the EEA Agreement; (b) associated countries, in accordance with the conditions laid down in the respective bilateral agreements establishing the general principles for their participation in Community programmes.
Article 11 Grant agreement 1.
Article 12 Technical assistance 1.
A service contract shall be signed as a result of a call for tender procedure in the field of public procurement in compliance with the relevant Articles under Title V of Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002.
The Community contribution to the actions referred to in Article 5 shall not exceed 50 % of the total cost of the action. 2.
The Community contribution to the actions referred to in Articles 6 and 7 shall not exceed 80 % of the total cost of the action. 3.
The Financial Perspective Heading 3 «Internal policies» shall contribute to the funding of actions and assistance undertaken under the Community programme in application of this Regulation. 5.
Where reference is made to this paragraph, Articles 4 and 7 of Decision 1999/468/EC shall apply.
Article 16 Repeal Regulation (EC) No 1467/94 shall be repealed, without prejudice to the contractual obligations of parties which have entered into contracts arising out of that Regulation.
Article 17 Entry into force This Regulation shall enter into force on the seventh day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union .
Done at Luxembourg, 26 April 2004 .
