The authorisation to provide for derogations, as provided for in paragraph 1 (hereinafter referred to as the authorisation), shall be subject, in addition to the conditions laid down in Annexes I, II and IV to Directive 2000/29/EC, to the conditions provided for in the Annex, and shall only apply to the plants that are introduced into the Community, in the periods from: (a) 1 June 2003 to 30 September 2003; (b) 1 June 2004 to 30 September 2004; (c) 1 June 2005 to 30 September 2005; and (d) 1 June 2006 to 30 September 2006.
Article 2 Member States shall provide the Commission and the other Member States, before 30 November of the year of importation, with: (a) the information on quantities of plants imported pursuant to this Decision; and (b) a detailed technical report of the official inspections and testing referred to in point 5 of the Annex.
Any Member State in which the plants are subsequently planted after their import, shall also provide the Commission and the other Member States, before 31 March of the year following the importation, with a detailed technical report of the official inspections and testing referred to in point 8 of the Annex.
Article 3 Member States shall immediately notify the Commission and the other Member States of all consignments introduced into their territory pursuant to this Decision which were subsequently found not to comply with this Decision.
Article 4 This Decision is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 9 April 2003.
For the Commission David Byrne Member of the Commission (1) OJ L 169, 10.7.2000, p. 1. (2) OJ L 78, 25.3.2003, p. 10. (3) OJ L 287, 14.11.2000, p. 65. (4) OJ L 113, 30.4.2002, p. 32.
The plants shall be intended for fruit production within the Community and shall have been: (a) produced exclusively from mother plants, which were imported from Member State and certified under an approved certification scheme of a Member State; (b) grown on land which: - is situated in an area isolated from commercial strawberry production, - is situated at least one kilometre from the nearest crop of strawberry plants grown for fruit or runner production which do not satisfy the conditions of this Decision, - is situated at least 200 metres from any other plants of the genus Fragaria which do not satisfy the conditions of this Decision, and - was, subsequent to the removal of the previous crops and before the planting of the plants, either officially tested by appropriate methods and shown to be free from harmful soil infesting organisms including Globodera pallida (Stone) Behrens and Globodera rostochiensis (Wollenweber) Behrens, or treated to ensure it was free from those organisms; (c) officially inspected by the Plant Protection Service of Chile, at least three times during the growing season and again prior to export for the presence of the harmful organisms listed in part A of Annexes I and II to Directive 2000/29/EC, in particular: - Arabis mosaic virus, - Colletotrichum acutatum Simmonds, - Globodera pallida (Stone) Behrens, - Globodera rostochiensis (Wollenweber) Behrens, - Naupactus leucoloma (Boheman), - Phytophthora fragariae Hickmann var.
fragariae, - Strawberry crinkle virus, - Strawberry mild yellow edge virus, - Strawberry vein banding virus, - Xanthomonas fragariae Kennedy and King, - Xiphinema americanum Cobb sensu lato (non European populations); and of any other harmful organism which is not known to occur in the Community such as: - Aegorhinus phaleratus Erichson, - Aegorhinus superciliosus germari (Gay Solier), - Chaetosiphon thomasi Hille Risambers, - Pseudoleucania bilitura GuenĂŠe, - Fusarium oxysporum fsp.
The said importer shall notify details of each introduction sufficiently in advance to the responsible official bodies of the Member State of introduction indicating the following: - the type of material, - the quantity of plants, - the intended date of introduction into the Community, - the intended point of entry into the Community, - the name, addresses and the locations where the plants are to be stored under official control pending the results of the inspections referred to in point 5 or of the premises referred to in point 6 where the plants are to be planted after having successfully undergone the inspections and testing referred to in point 5.
The inspections including testing, as appropriate, required under Article 13 of Directive 2000/29/EC and under point 8 of this Decision shall be made by the responsible official bodies in the Member State making use of the authorisation, and where appropriate, in cooperation with the responsible official bodies of the Member State where the plants are to be planted.
The responsible official bodies shall ensure that any plant not planted in accordance with point 6 is destroyed under their control.
