2002/732/EC: Commission Decision of 30 May 2002 concerning the technical specification for interoperability relating to the infrastructure subsystem of the trans-European high-speed rail system referred to in Article 6(1) of Council Directive 96/48/EC (Text with EEA relevance) (notified under document number C(2002) 1948) Commission Decision of 30 May 2002 concerning the technical specification for interoperability relating to the infrastructure subsystem of the trans-European high-speed rail system referred to in Article 6(1) of Council Directive 96/48/EC (notified under document number C(2002) 1948) (Text with EEA relevance) (2002/732/EC) THE COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, Having regard to Council Directive 96/48/EC of 23 July 1996 on the interoperability of the trans-European high-speed rail network(1), and in particular Article 6(1) thereof, Whereas: (1) In accordance with Article 2(c) of Directive 96/48/EC, the trans-European high-speed rail system is subdivided into structural or functional subsystems.
These subsystems are described in Annex II to the Directive. (2) In accordance with Article 5(1) of the Directive, each of the subsystems shall be covered by a technical specification for interoperability (TSI). (3) In accordance with Article 6(1) of the Directive, draft TSIs shall be drawn up by the joint representative body. (4) The Committee set up under Article 21 of Directive 96/48/EC has appointed the European Association for Railway Interoperability (AEIF) as the joint representative body in accordance with Article 2(h) of the Directive. (5) The AEIF has been given a mandate to draw up a draft TSI for the infrastructure subsystem in accordance with Article 6(1) of the Directive.
This mandate has been established in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 21(2) of the Directive. (6) The AEIF has drawn up the draft TSI, together with an introductory report containing a cost-benefit analysis as provided for in Article 6(3) of the Directive. (7) The draft TSI has been examined by the representatives of the Member States, in the framework of the Committee set up by the Directive, in the light of the introductory report. (8) As specified in Article 1 of Directive 96/48/EC, the conditions for achieving interoperability of the trans-European high-speed rail system concern the design, construction, upgrading and operation of the infrastructures and rolling stock contributing to the functioning of the system to be put into service after the date of entry into force of the Directive.
Furthermore, in the cases provided for in Article 7 of the Directive Member States must be allowed not to apply certain technical specifications.
With regard to the aspects that are common to the high-speed and the conventional rail systems, but not covered in the attached TSI, the conditions to be complied with for the verification of the interoperability within the meaning of Article 16(2) of Directive 96/48/EC are the applicable technical rules in use in the Member State which authorises the placing in service of the subsystem concerned by this Decision. 2.
Each Member State shall notify to the other Member States and to the Commission within six months of the notification of this Decision: - the list of the applicable technical rules mentioned under Article 2(1), - the conformity assessment and checking procedures to be applied with regard to the application of these rules, - the bodies it appoints for carrying out those conformity assessment and checking procedures.
The Member State will examine the dossier and, taking into account the implementation strategy in Chapter 7 of the attached TSI, will (where appropriate) decide whether the scale of the work requires the need for a new authorisation for placing in service under Article 14 of Directive 96/48/EC.
Done at Brussels, 30 May 2002.
For the Commission Loyola De Palacio Vice-President (1) OJ L 235, 17.9.1996, p. 6. (2) Directive 2001/16/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 March 2001 on the interoperability of the trans-European conventional rail system (OJ L 110, 20.4.2001, p. 1. (3) OJ L 100, 11.4.2001, p. 17.
The specifications concerning the %quot%users%quot% and %quot%environment%quot% subsystems, which are necessary to ensure interoperability of the trans-European high-speed rail system in compliance with the essential requirements, are set out in the TSIs concerned.
CONTENT OF THIS TSI In accordance with Article 5(3) and with Annex I(1)(b) of Directive 96/48/EC, this TSI: (a) specifies the essential requirements for the subsystems and their interfaces (Chapter 3); (b) establishes the basic parameters described in Annex II(3) of that Directive, which are necessary to meet the essential requirements (Chapter 4); (c) establishes the conditions to be complied with to achieve the specified performances for each of the following categories of line (Chapter 4): - category I: specially built high-speed lines equipped for speeds generally equal to or greater than 250 km/h; - category II: specially upgraded high-speed lines equipped for speeds of the order of 200 km/h; - category III: specially upgraded high-speed lines which have special features as a result of topographical, relief or town-planning constraints, on which the speed must be adapted to each case. (d) establishes implementing provisions in certain specific cases (Chapter 7); (e) determines the interoperability constituents and interfaces which must be covered by European specifications, including European standards, which are needed in order to achieve interoperability within the trans-European high-speed rail system while meeting the essential requirements (Chapter 5); (f) states, in each case under consideration, which of the modules defined in Decision 93/465/EEC or, where appropriate, which specific procedures are to be used in order to assess either the conformity or the suitability for use of the interoperability constituents, as well as %quot%EC%quot% verification of the subsystems (Chapter 6). 2.
DEFINITION OF THE INFRASTRUCTURE SUBSYSTEM/SCOPE OF APPLICATION 2.1.
This fixed plant corresponds to the %quot%fixed installations%quot% defined in Annex I to EEC Regulation No 2598/70 of 18 December 1970, except for the signalling and telecommunications installations and plant for transforming and carrying electric power, which are the subject of specific TSIs, which are built on the lines defined in Article 10(2) and Annex I of Decision No 1692/96/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 1996. 2.2.
Associated infrastructures in stations The infrastructure subsystem includes the means allowing passengers to board trains: station platforms and their fittings and fixtures.
Also included in the scope of this TSI are: - the arrangements necessary to ensure the monitoring and maintenance of the facilities, in keeping with the essential requirements, - the arrangements necessary within the infrastructure to ensure conservation of the environment, in keeping with the environment subsystem, - certain arrangements designed to ensure passenger safety in the event of malfunctioning of the high-speed trains, as per the requirements of the operation subsystem. 3.
ESSENTIAL REQUIREMENTS 3.1.
According to Article 4(1) of Directive 96/48/EC the trans-European high-speed rail system, its subsystems and its interoperability constituents must fulfil the essential requirements set out in general terms in Annex III to the Directive. 3.2.
The essential requirements concern: - safety, - reliability and availability, - human health, - environmental protection, - technical compatibility.
SAFETY According to Annex III to Directive 96/48/EC, the general requirements for safety that are relevant to the infrastructure subsystem are the following: %quot%1.1.1.
The safety criteria considered relate on the one hand to the total maximum acceleration and deceleration transferred to the track by a train's power and braking systems, and on the other hand to the maximum temperature rise that can be generated in the rail by braking systems that do not use adhesion.
It is defined by the following elements: - track gauge (4.3.3.10), - rail inclination (4.3.3.11), - railhead profile (4.3.3.12), - equivalent conicity (4.3.3.9).
The following elements also determine the level of vertical forces (4.3.3.16), lateral forces (4.3.3.17) and longitudinal forces exerted on the track and on switches and crossings: - cant (4.3.3.7), - cant deficiency (4.3.3.8), - geometrical quality of the track (4.3.3.18), - resistance of the track and switches and crossings to braking and acceleration forces (4.3.3.21), - effects of cross winds (4.3.3.23).
The following elements of the subsystem control the passage of vehicles over switches and crossings: - cant deficiency in switches and crossings (4.3.3.8b), - switches and crossings (4.3.3.19 and 4.3.3.20).
The elements of the subsystem relevant to structures are: - vertical loads on structures (4.3.3.13), - transverse horizontal loads on structures (4.3.3.14), - longitudinal loads on structures (4.3.3.15).
RELIABILITY AND AVAILABILITY According to Annex III to Directive 96/48/EC, the general requirements pertaining to reliability and availability that are relevant to the infrastructure subsystem are the following: %quot%1.2.
This requirement in particular concerns the following elements of the subsystem, already addressed by the safety requirement: - track gauge (4.3.3.10), - cant (4.3.3.7), - geometrical quality of the track (4.3.3.18), - switches and crossings (4.3.3.19 and 4.3.3.20). - the infrastructure must be designed in such manner as to allow easy maintenance with resources suited to carrying out the maintenance plan.
This requirement concerns the following elements: - grade of the rail steel (constituent 5.2.1), - structures, vertical static loads (4.3.3.13).
HEALTH In accordance with Annex III to Directive 96/48/EC, the general requirements pertaining to human health that are relevant to the infrastructure subsystem are the following: %quot%1.3.1.
Materials likely, in their mode of usage, to constitute a health hazard to those having access to them must not be used in trains and railway infrastructures. 1.3.2.
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION According to Annex III of Directive 96/48/EC, the general requirements pertaining to environmental protection that are relevant to the infrastructure subsystem are the following: %quot%1.4.1.
Parameters relevant to the environmental requirement - Boundary characteristics linked to outside noise (Parameter 17, 4.1.7 and 4.2.3.1.2). - Boundary characteristics linked to outside vibrations (Parameter 18, 4.1.8 and 4.2.3.1.2).
TECHNICAL COMPATIBILITY According to Annex III of Directive 96/48/EC, the general requirements pertaining to technical compatibility that relate to the infrastructure subsystem are the following: %quot%1.5.
Parameters relevant to the technical compatibility requirement - Minimum structure gauge of the infrastructure (parameter 1 - 4.1.1 and 4.3.3.1): besides the safety requirement already mentioned, the structure gauge of the infrastructure shall allow correct operation of the pantograph in contact with the overhead line equipment, - Minimum curve radius (parameter 2 - 4.1.2 and 4.3.3.8): besides the safety requirement already mentioned, the choice of curve radii for the lines, and hence the minimum radius of the curves, determine the magnitude of the lateral movements - both the maximum amplitude and the mean amplitude in operation - of the vehicle suspensions.
Conformity of the infrastructure subsystem and its constituents with the essential requirements is verified in accordance with the provisions set out in Directive 96/48/EC. 4.
DESCRIPTION OF THE INFRASTRUCTURE SUBSYSTEM The trans-European high-speed railway system, to which Directive 96/48/EC applies and of which the infrastructure subsystem is a part, is an integrated system which requires the basic parameters, interfaces and performance to be verified in particular so as to ensure that the system is interoperable in respect of the essential requirements.
The particular requirements to ensure compatibility of upgraded and connecting lines are detailed in Point 4.3.
The full list of interfaces and the elements that characterise them is given in Point 4.2. 4.1.1.
Minimum infrastructure gauge (Parameter 1) The minimum gauge of the infrastructure to be used for the high-speed lines to be built shall comply with the reference kinematic profile GC (refer to Annex G).
The applicable provisions for the %quot%minimum clearance gauge%quot% element (4.3.3.1) are defined in Point 4.3.3 for the different line categories concerned and in Point 7.3 for lines with specific features. 4.1.2.
Minimum radius of curvature (Parameter 2) When designing the lines for high-speed operation, the minimum radius of curvature selected shall be such that, for the cant (4.3.3.7) set for the curve under consideration the cant deficiency (4.3.3.8) does not exceed, when running at the maximum speed for which the line is planned, the values indicated in Point 4.3.3 on %quot%Specified performance%quot%.
On tracks where only slow movements of the interoperable trainsets take place (station and passing tracks, depot and stabling tracks), the minimum horizontal design radius for any isolated curve shall not be less than 150 m.
In actual operation, even allowing for variations of the alignment, the minimum effective lateral radius shall not be less than 125 m.
As for the vertical alignment profile, the curve radius shall not be less than 600 m on a crest and 900 m in a hollow.
The static load P0 for a non-powered axle shall not exceed 17 t, - in the case of rolling stock designed to operate on specially upgraded high-speed lines at speeds of the order of 200 km/h: the technical rules in use on these lines are applicable and must be laid down in the Infrastructure Register.
In addition, the difference in static load between each side of the same vehicle shall not exceed 6 %. - the maximum dynamic wheel load, as defined in Point 4.1.1 of the rolling stock TSI, which may be exerted by interoperable high-speed trainsets, shall not exceed the following limits: - 180 kN for vehicles when their maximum speed is greater than 200 km/h but less than or equal to 250 km/h, - 170 kN for vehicles when their maximum speed is greater than 250 km/h but less than or equal to 300 km/h, - 160 kN for vehicles when their maximum speed is greater than 300 km/h.
The track superstructure shall also take into account the technical characteristics (axle load, speed) of non-interoperable trains which may be authorised on the line.
The specifications for track resistance to vertical loads are given in Point 4.3.3 under elements %quot%resistance of track and switches and crossings to vertical forces%quot% (4.3.3.16) and %quot%track stiffness%quot% (4.3.3.22).
Lateral forces The track, switches and crossings shall be able to withstand at least the following lateral forces, which are defined in Point 4.1.1 of the rolling stock TSI: - the maximum total dynamic lateral force exerted by a wheelset on the track: %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt%, P being the maximum static load per axle, in kN, of the vehicles admitted to the line (service vehicles, high-speed and other trains).
The track superstructure shall also take into account the technical characteristics (axle load, speed, cant deficiency) of non-interoperable trains which may be allowed to run on the line.
The specifications for track resistance to lateral forces are set out in Point 4.3.3 for %quot%resistance of track and switches and crossings to lateral forces%quot% element (4.3.3.17).
Longitudinal forces The track, switches and crossings shall withstand the longitudinal forces defined in Point 4.1.1 of the rolling stock TSI, corresponding to maximum accelerations and decelerations of 2,5 m/s2 exerted by the high-speed interoperable trains, as well as the attendant temperature rise effects.
The track superstructure shall also withstand longitudinal forces of non-interoperable trains intended to run on the line (service vehicles and other trains) corresponding to the above accelerations and decelerations.
The specifications of track resistance to longitudinal forces are given in Point 4.3.3 for the %quot%resistance of track and switches and crossings to braking and starting forces%quot% element (4.3.3.21). 4.1.5.
Provided that the requirements of Point 7.3 of this TSI are observed, the useful length of the platforms accessible to passengers shall be at least 400 m on new lines to be built and lines upgraded for high-speed.
On existing lines for high-speed and on lines upgraded for high-speed, only those stations where high-speed trains stop under normal service conditions are concerned.
When, on these lines, application of the provisions of Chapter 7 %quot%Implementation%quot% for increasing the length of existing platforms is difficult, the Infrastructure Manager shall render some platforms in stations available for commercial service to the operators who shall then organise their service appropriately. 4.1.6.
Provided that the requirements of Point 7.3 are observed, two values are allowed for platform height: 550 and 760 mm.
These values may be changed according to the performance expected from the lines, as per the provisions of Point 4.3.3 %quot%Specified performance%quot% (4.3.3.26: passenger platforms). 4.1.7.
Boundary characteristics linked to outside Noise (Parameter 17) The noise level generated by the trans-European high-speed rail system should remain acceptable for its surroundings and be kept within limits suitable to protect neighbouring populations and their activities.
The environmental impact study required to be carried out beforehand under Council Directive 85/337/EEC and stated in 4.2.3.1.1 below, must show that the noise levels perceived by neighbours along new or upgraded infrastructure (either noise levels generated by interoperable trains or global equivalent noise levels of the whole traffic, depending on the applicable criteria) do not exceed the noise levels defined by national rules in application, taking into account the noise emission characteristics of the interoperable trains as defined in the rolling stock TSI. 4.1.8.
Boundary characteristics linked to outside vibrations (Parameter 18) Operating the trans-European high-speed rail system in a normal state of maintenance should not result in a level of ground-borne vibrations that would be unacceptable for its surroundings and the local activities.
The environmental impact study required to be carried out beforehand by Council Directive 85/337/EEC and stated in 4.2.3.1.1 below, must show that the vibration levels expected along new or upgraded infrastructure during the passage of interoperable trains do not exceed the vibrations levels defined by national rules in application, taking into account the characteristics of the interoperable trains as defined in the rolling stock TSI. 4.1.9.
Characteristics linked to the access of disabled persons (Parameter 22) With two possible platform heights (550 mm and 760 mm) specified in the infrastructure TSI, it is unlikely that level access from platform to train will be achieved everywhere on the network.
Several available solutions could be adopted on the trans-European high-speed network which include: - rolling stock solutions: - bridging ramp integrated into rolling stock, - lift integrated into rolling stock. - infrastructure solutions: - rising platform, - partially raised platform. - operational solutions: - portable ramp deployed by operating staff, - mobile lift deployed by operating staff.
Maximum pressure variations in tunnels (Parameter 23) Tunnels shall be designed such that the maximum pressure variation (defined as the difference between the extreme peak values of positive and negative pressure) along an interoperable train shall not be more than 10000 Pascals during the passage of a train through the tunnel at the maximum speed permitted for the structure.
The specifications concerning the free cross-sectional area of the tunnel are given in Point 4.3 %quot%Specified performance%quot% for the %quot%tunnels and covered cuts%quot% element (4.3.3.6). 4.1.11.
Maximum falling and rising gradients (Parameter 24) Provided that the requirements of Point 7.3 of this TSI are observed, the up and down gradients of new high-speed lines shall be limited to 35 mm/m.
The conditions applicable for this parameter on high-speed lines to be built, upgraded and connecting lines are specified in Point 4.3 %quot%Specified performance%quot% (4.3.3.4). 4.1.12.
Minimum distance between track centres (Parameter 25) The spacing between track centres on new high-speed lines shall be at least 4,5 m.
These variations are specified in Point 4.3.3 %quot%Specified performance%quot% (4.3.3.2). 4.2.
The above interfaces are characterised by the following elements, regarding which the applicable requirements for achieving the performance levels specified for each category of line of the trans-European high-speed rail system are set out in Point 4.3.3 %quot%Specified performance%quot%: - minimum structure gauge (4.3.3.1), - distance between track centre-lines ( 4.3.3.2), - aerodynamic effects on infrastructure (4.3.3.3), - maximum rising and falling gradients (4.3.3.4), - minimum horizontal and vertical radius of curves in stabling tracks (4.3.3.5), - works below ground level such as tunnels and cut-and-covers (4.3.3.6), - cant (4.3.3.7), - cant deficiency (4.3.3.8), - equivalent conicity (4.3.3.9), - track gauge and tolerances (4.3.3.10), - rail inclination (4.3.3.11), - railhead profile (4.3.3.12), - vertical loads on structures (4.3.3.13), - transverse horizontal loads on structures (4.3.3.14), - longitudinal loads on structures (4.3.3.15), - resistance of track, switches and crossings to vertical loads (4.3.3.16), - resistance of track, switches and crossings to lateral loads (4.3.3.17), - track geometrical quality (4.3.3.18), - points and crossings: forms of half sets of switches and crossings (4.3.3.19), - points and crossings: functional conditions (4.3.3.20), - resistance of track and switches to braking and starting forces (4.3.3.21), - track stiffness (4.3.3.22), - effects of lateral winds (4.3.3.23), - hotbox detectors (4.3.3.24), - access to or intrusion into line installations (4.3.3.25), - passenger platforms (4.3.3.26), - underground stations at high-speed (4.3.3.27), - electrical transmission characteristics of the superstructure (4.3.3.28). 4.2.3.
Regulatory conditions 4.2.3.1.1.
Fire protection The constructional features of underground stations on high-speed lines shall meet the requirements set out in Directive 89/106/EEC of 21 December 1988 and its interpretative document concerning Essential Safety Requirement No 2, %quot%Fire Safety%quot%.
The provisions taken by the adjudicating entity shall permit free movement of interoperable trainsets such as described in the rolling stock TSI, Points 4.3.11, 4.3.13 and 4.3.14.
The rolling stock characteristics thus specified are based on the following performance: - the ability to maintain a speed of at least 80 km/h for 15 minutes with a fire on board, - presence of temperature detectors in specific areas of the train, - presence of an alarm, at passengers' disposal, which does not stop the train, - fire resistance of the materials (possible ignition sources, fire load and smoke/fume properties), - the adoption of measures to avoid the propagation of smoke and fumes (stopping the air conditioning system) and to protect passengers, - on-board communication system connecting the train crew and the passengers.
In addition, if platforms are built in specific zones of the tunnel so as to provide easy egress either to protected rescue areas, or to the lateral path defined as per the applicable national rules, their height shall be between 550 and 760 mm so as to ensure compatibility with rolling stock access.
These specific zones shall be indicated in the Infrastructure Register of the line concerned. 4.2.3.2.
Operational conditions 4.2.3.2.1.
Commissioning This aspect is dealt with in Chapter 6. 4.2.3.2.2.
Maintenance plan A maintenance plan shall be drawn up by the Infrastructure Manager or his authorised representative to ensure that the specified characteristics of the interfaces of the infrastructure subsystem are upheld within the limits specified for them.
The maintenance plan must contain at least the following elements: - a set of safety limit values (limit values leading to a limitation of train speeds) for the following parameters of track geometric quality: longitudinal level, cross level, alignment and gauge, as set for the track geometry measuring systems used by the Infrastructure Manager or his representative.
These values must be at most equal to those specified in the following standards and regulations: - for the longitudinal level, line and track twist, the values indicated under %quot%track geometric quality%quot% (4.3.3.18) in Point 4.3.3, - for the average gauge dimension over 100 m, the values indicated under %quot%track gauge%quot% (4.3.3.10) in Point 4.3.3 for the lines with different performance levels, - an indication of the frequency of checks and of the tolerances on measured values of the geometrical standards and of the means used to check them, with for the latter an indication of the rules of equivalence with the values quoted in Point 4.3.3, - the measures taken (speed restriction, repair time) when prescribed values are exceeded, - the rules concerning safety margins for switches and crossings, complying with the requirements stated under %quot%switches and crossings%quot% in Point 4.3.3 (4.3.3.20), - an indication of the frequency at which the rails must be inspected and of the inspection means used, - an indication of the frequency at which the track (rail fastening systems and sleepers) must be inspected. 4.2.3.2.3.
The particular provisions applicable in very long tunnels are specified in Point 4.2.3.1.3. 4.2.3.2.5.
Railway undertakings shall give notice to the Infrastructure Manager of the specific conditions which apply for recovery or rerailing operations for their trains.
Infrastructure Register For each section of line of the trans-European high-speed rail system, a single document, called the %quot%Infrastructure Register%quot% shall be drawn up by the adjudicating entity or its authorised representative, or the Infrastructure Manager.
It permits: - the Member State which is responsible for placing the subsystem into service to provide a document describing, for each line of the trans-European high-speed network, the main parameters governing their operation, - the Infrastructure Manager, to provide a documentary record summarising the lines concerned, which allows tracking of the future evolutions in implementing the TSI, - the Railway undertakings providing or looking to provide services on the line to be informed of its particular features and of parameters or interoperability specifications which depend on a specific choice of the Infrastructure Manager.
The adjudicating entity or Infrastructure Manager shall append this document to the EC declaration of verification of the infrastructure subsystem, as a part of the technical file described in Annex V to Directive 96/48/EC, to obtain authorisation for entry into service by the Member State. 4.3.
SPECIFIED PERFORMANCE The requirements that must be met by the elements characterising the interfaces of the infrastructure subsystem must match the performance levels specified for each of the following line categories of the trans-European high-speed rail system, as relevant: - lines specially built for high-speed, - lines specially upgraded for high-speed, - lines with special characteristics, specially upgraded for high-speed.
Lines built at another track gauge value are described, under specific cases, in Point 7.3.
The specified performance levels for lines representing specific cases are defined in Point 7.3. 4.3.1.
Lines specially built for high-speed In order to make best use of the performance of interoperable trainsets, the lines of the trans-European high-speed rail system specially built for high-speed shall be designed to allow the passage of trains with a length of 400 metres and a maximum weight of 1000 tonnes at speeds greater than or equal to 250 km/h, able to fit within the infrastructure gauge defined in Point 4.1.1 above.
The parameters and elements specified in Points 4.1 and 4.3.3 allow, provided the conditions stated in this section are fulfilled, the building of infrastructure on which speeds up to 300 km/h may be allowed.
The speed of interoperable trainsets may, according to Annex I to Directive 96/48/EC, be increased to over 300 km/h, the necessary conditions for such performance may be provided for at the design stage for the parameters and interfaces concerned, when these entail some modifications related to running speed.
Different requirements than those described for the basic performance levels, as specified below for each parameter or element concerned, may be adopted in the following cases: - if, on certain sections of high-speed lines where the maximum speed envisaged for interoperable trainsets cannot be achieved for technical reasons, lower performance levels are adopted as concerns the maximum speed of the line. - if, as the result of adopting particular constructional characteristics for the subsystem achieving the same level of performance, specific requirements can be adopted for certain parameters or interfaces, - if, in order to allow higher-performing high-speed trains to run, for example at speeds exceeding 300 km/h, it is necessary to make special allowances for such trains affecting certain parameters or interfaces; adoption of such allowances shall be subordinated in this case to maintenance of the conditions applicable to other high-speed trains defined in Points 4.1 and 4.3.3.
These special requirements as they relate to the various parameters and interfaces concerned are described in Point 4.3.3. 4.3.2.
Lines specially upgraded for high-speed The lines of the trans-European rail system specially upgraded for high-speed are designed to allow trainsets 400 metres long weighing up to 1000 tonnes to run at speeds under 250 km/h.
The parameters and elements specified in order to achieve the basic performance levels of the network serve to build infrastructure allowing high speeds under 250 km/h.
Different conditions than those described for these basic performance levels are specified in the following subsection, for each parameter or interface concerned, and may be used on existing lines upgraded for high-speed on which the running speed of the interoperable trainsets being less than their maximum design speed - lower performance levels are adopted as concerns the line's maximum speed.
Existing high-speed lines, lines specially upgraded for high-speed and connecting lines On existing high-speed lines, on lines upgraded for high-speed and on their connecting lines, the minimum structure gauge set for each of them on the basis of the GC reference kinematic profile may be applied, in the case of modification work, if an economic study demonstrates the advantages of such investment.
The economic study by the adjudicating entity or the Infrastructure Manager shall take into account costs and benefits expected to result from the enlarged gauge in relation with the other interoperable lines connected to the one concerned.
Except when specific cases described in Point 7.3, or the arrangements stated in Section 7 below are applied, suitable clearance for the pantographs gauge, to be increased by the electrical insulation clearances, must be allowed on existing electrified systems to allow passage of the types of pantograph liable to be used on the electrified system concerned, as described in Points 4.1.2.1, 4.1.2.2, 4.1.2.3 and 4.3.2.3, Figure 4.1 and Annexes H and J to the energy TSI 4.3.3.2.
Minimum distance between track centres Lines specially built for high-speed At the design stage, the minimum distance between main track centres on lines specially built for high-speed shall be set to 4,50 m.
The minimum strength of the structures close to the track shall be checked in respect of high-speed train operation only, by applying, where relevant, the coefficient k1 defined in Point 6.6.2 of standard ENV 1991-3, for trains with streamlined coaches.
Closed structures less than 20 metres long should be studied in accordance with the provisions of Point 6.6.6 of this standard.
He shall take into account the aerodynamic effects generated by the trains as described in Point 4.2.13 of the rolling stock TSI, which defines the former for the maximum allowed speed of any interoperable train type, up to 300 km/h.
Maximum rising and falling gradients Lines specially built for high-speed, lines specially upgraded for high-speed and connecting lines Provided the requirements of Point 7.3 are observed, gradients as steep as 35 [permil ] may be allowed for main tracks at the design phase, provided the following %quot%envelope%quot% requirements are observed: - the slope of the moving average profile over 10 km is less than or equal to 25 [permil ], - the maximum length of continuous 35 [permil ] gradient does not exceed 6000 m.
Upgradings introduced for the operation of interoperable trains should comply with the preceding values for line gradients, except when specific local conditions require higher values; this being so, the acceptable falling and rising gradients values shall take into account the limiting characteristics of the rolling stock in traction and braking, as defined in Points 4.3.3, 4.3.4, 4.3.5 and 4.3.9 of the rolling stock TSI.
Stabling tracks: minimum horizontal and vertical radius of curvature, falling and rising gradients, distance between track centres Lines specially built for high-speed, lines specially upgraded for high-speed and connecting lines On tracks where interoperable trainsets move only at low speed (station and passing tracks, depot and stabling tracks), the minimum horizontal design radius for any isolated curve shall not be less than 150 m.
Allowing for alignment variations in practice, the minimum effective radius shall not be less than 125 m.
Vertical alignment of stabling and service tracks shall not include curves of less than 600 m radius on a crest or 900 m in a hollow.
Works below ground level such as tunnels and cut-and-covers Tunnels shall be designed such that the maximum pressure variation (difference between the extreme positive and negative pressure peak values, having subtracted the natural pressure variations due to the difference in altitude between the tunnel entry and exit) along an interoperable train shall not exceed 10000 Pascals during the time taken for the train to pass through the tunnel, at the maximum design speed.
These characteristics are based on the following train cross sectional areas, which can be applied independently to each motor or trailer vehicle: - 12 m2 for vehicles designed for GC loading gauge, - 11 m2 for vehicles designed for GB loading gauge, - 10 m2 for vehicles designed for smaller loading gauges.
Lines specially built for high-speed The cant chosen for new high-speed lines during design shall be limited to 180 mm.
On tracks in operation, a maintenance tolerance of ± 20 mm is allowed, subject to a maximum cant of 190 mm.
This value may be raised to 200 mm maximum on tracks reserved for passenger traffic alone.
Lines specially upgraded for high-speed and connecting lines The cant chosen for upgraded existing lines during design shall be limited to 180 mm.
On tracks in operation, a maintenance tolerance of ± 20 mm is allowed, subject to a maximum cant of 190 mm.
This value may be raised to 200 mm maximum on tracks reserved for passenger traffic alone.
The operational maintenance requirements of this element are the subject of the provisions of Point 4.2.3.2.2 (Maintenance plan) on service tolerances. 4.3.3.8.
On lines, the radii of which have been defined on the basis of the cant deficiency values in the above table, interoperable high-speed trains equipped with special mechanisms (tilting) may be admitted to run with higher cant deficiency values, provided that adopting such values for those trains does not bring about restrictions for other interoperable trains.
The maximum cant deficiency value shall be fixed, in the case of trains equipped with particular mechanisms (tilting trains inter alia), for each interoperable line, by application of the national regulations for the type of train concerned; the value applied shall be published in the Infrastructure Register of the line concerned.
Lines specially upgraded for high-speed and connecting lines The design cant deficiency allowed for high-speed trains on upgraded existing lines and connecting lines shall be limited to the values in the table below, according to the line's maximum speed: %gt%TABLE%gt% At the design stage, the allowable radius of curvature of the layout in plan shall be determined, on the basis of the above elements (cant and cant deficiency).
On lines, the radii of which have been defined on the basis of the cant deficiency values in the above table, interoperable high-speed trains equipped with special mechanisms (tilting) may be admitted to run with higher cant deficiency values, provided that adopting such values for those trains does not bring about restrictions for other interoperable trains.
The maximum cant deficiency value shall be fixed, in the case of trains equipped with particular mechanisms (tilting trains inter alia), for each interoperable line, by application of the national regulations for the type of train concerned; the value applied shall be published in the Infrastructure Register of the line concerned.
Lines specially built or upgraded for high-speed having special features If, because of especially difficult topographical constraints, the curve radii of the line layout in plan prevent compliance with the cant deficiency values stated in the previous paragraphs, higher values may be adopted for this interface.
A reminder of these maximum limiting values is given in the following table. %gt%TABLE%gt% On lines, the radii of which have been defined on the basis of the cant deficiency values in the above table, interoperable high-speed trains equipped with special mechanisms (tilting) may be admitted to run with higher cant deficiency values, provided that adopting such values for those trains does not bring about restrictions for other interoperable trains.
The maximum cant deficiency value shall be fixed, in the case of trains equipped with particular mechanisms (tilting trains inter alia), for each interoperable line, by application of the national regulations for the type of train concerned; the value applied shall be published in the Infrastructure Register of the line concerned.
A tolerance of 10 mm on these values may be accepted for existing switches laid on lines to be upgraded for high-speed. 4.3.3.9.
Compliance with these equivalent conicity values, taking into account the characteristics of the axle (wheel profile and distance between active faces of the wheel as defined in Point 4.2.10 of the rolling stock TSI), shall be obtained through an appropriate, documented choice, both on plain track and through switches, of the three following elements: track gauge and tolerances (4.3.3.10), rail inclination (4.3.3.11) and railhead profile (4.3.3.12).
For the calculation of the equivalent conicity, to take account of the change in contact points as the wheel advances, the track gauge shall be taken as the sliding mean of the measured gauge over a distance of 100 m.
Values set down for the track in service shall be applied as extreme limiting values in the maintenance plan (4.2.3.2.2) which shall be enforced as soon as the line is put into service.
This element may be modified, in conjunction with the elements %quot%rail inclination%quot% (4.3.3.11), %quot%railhead profile%quot% (4.3.3.12) and %quot%axle characteristics%quot% (4.2.10 of the rolling stock TSI), in accordance with the requirements set out for the latter elements.
Lines specially upgraded for high-speed and connecting lines The same specifications of mean gauge over 100 m as given above for lines specially built for high-speed shall apply to lines upgraded for high speeds of over 230 km/h.
The operational requirements to be respected in maintenance of this element are the subject of the provisions of Point 4.2.3.2.2 (Maintenance plan) on in-service tolerances. 4.3.3.11.
Lines specially built for high-speed For line sections operated at speeds less than or equal to 280 km/h, a rail inclination of between 1 in 20 and 1 in 40 (1/20 and 1/40) shall be allowed, (nominal value 0,05 to 0,025 depending on the choice of track construction components), with a construction tolerance of 0,010 at commissioning.
For line sections operated at more than 280 km/h, the track shall normally be laid with a rail inclination of 1/20, which ensures the intended conicity values with the wheel profiles specified in the rolling stock TSI.
The track may nevertheless be laid with a different inclination than 1/20, proposed by the Infrastructure Manager, which may make it necessary to adopt new specifications for the elements %quot%railhead profile%quot% (4.3.3.12), track gauge (4.3.3.10) and axle characteristics (4.2.10 of the rolling stock TSI).
In switches and crossings on the sections of lines built specially for high-speed where the running speed is less than or equal to 250 km/h, the laying of rails without inclination shall be allowed provided that it is limited, on line sections designed for running at more than 200 km/h, to the switch and crossing work alone.
Lines specially upgraded for high-speed and connecting lines On existing lines specially upgraded for high-speed, the requirements set out in the previous paragraph for line speeds of 280 km/h or less shall apply on plain line track.
Laying rails without inclination shall be allowed in switches and crossings on upgraded lines, provided that it is limited, on line sections designed for running at more than 200 km/h, to the switching and crossing work alone. 4.3.3.12.
The railhead profile shall comprise a lateral slope on the side of the railhead angled to between 1/20 and 1/17,2 with reference to the vertical axis of the railhead, followed by, in the direction of the upper surface, a succession of curves with radii of 12,7 or 13 mm, and then 80 and 300 mm, as far as the vertical axis of the railhead.
This element describing a track component is described in Section 5 on %quot%interoperability constituents%quot% (5.2.1).
This feature may be modified, in conjunction with the elements %quot%rail inclination%quot% (4.3.3.11), %quot%track gauge%quot% (4.3.3.10) and %quot%axle characteristics%quot% (4.2.10 of the rolling stock TSI) and according to the requirements set out in the previous paragraph with respect to rail inclination. 4.3.3.13.
Vertical loads on structures Lines specially built for high-speed, lines specially upgraded for high-speed and connecting lines The vertical loads of one of the load models defined in Point 6.3 of standard ENV 1991-3 shall be used in the design calculations for structures on new lines; the α coefficient defined in Point 6.3.2 %quot%Load model 71%quot% shall be taken as at least equal to 1.
To guarantee their dynamic behaviour in current or future traffic, structures shall be calculated with ten reference convoys (see Annex I to the present TSI), whose set is called universal dynamic train (TDU).
For each of the convoys, the determined acceleration at the middle span of each of the spans of the bridge (or elements of aprons), of the structure (or of its elements) must be lower than the acceptable acceleration (i.e. 0,35 g for a ballasted structure and 0,5 g for a non-ballasted structure); the deflection at the middle span shall be lower than the acceptable deflection (Annex G of the standard ENV 1991-3).
These checks shall be made for a speed range between 0 km/h and 1,2 V km/h, V being the potential speed of the line.
The design of the track-bearing structures shall also take into account, to comply with Article 5(4) of the Directive, the technical characteristics (axle load, speed) of the non-interoperable trainsets that might be authorised to run on the line. 4.3.3.14.
Transverse horizontal loads on structures Lines specially built for high-speed, lines specially upgraded for high-speed and connecting lines The track-bearing structures shall be designed to withstand the horizontal force from the centrifugal and nosing forces exerted by the vehicles, for all the vehicles expected to run on the line (service vehicles, high-speed vehicles and other trains).
Accordingly, the horizontal loads defined in Point 6.5 of standard ENV 1991-3, in Points 6.5.1 %quot%Centrifugal forces%quot% and 6.5.2 %quot%Nosing forces%quot%, shall be used in the design calculations for structures on new lines.
In applying Point 6.5.1 (6)P, the calculation called for in reduced load model 71 (6.5.1(6)P(b)) shall be sufficient. 4.3.3.15.
Longitudinal loads on structures Lines specially built for high-speed, lines specially upgraded for high-speed and connecting lines When designing structures for new lines, longitudinal forces shall be calculated according to the specifications in Points 6.5 of standard ENV 1991-3, (refer to 6.5.3 and 6.5.4.4).
For application of 6.5.3.4, the limit of 1000 tonnes for the total weight of high-speed trains defined above for a complete traffic unit shall be taken into account. 4.3.3.16.
Resistance of the track, switches and crossings to vertical loads Lines specially built for high-speed The track and its component parts, in their normal service condition as well as in the conditions resulting from maintenance work, shall be able to withstand at least the maximum limiting vertical forces defined in Point 4.1.4 of this TSI.
This requirement is deemed to be met if the requirements with respect to the track components, defined in Chapter 5 %quot%Interoperability constituents%quot% for the rail (5.2.1), rail fastening systems (5.2.2) and sleepers and bearers (5.2.3) interoperability constituents are met.
Lines specially upgraded for high-speed and connecting lines For this element, the requirements on existing lines specially upgraded for high-speed are met for the running of trains other than interoperable trains.
The requirements set out in the previous paragraph and in Chapter 5 for the corresponding interoperability constituents may be waived on these lines.
The operational maintenance requirements for this element are the subject of the provisions of Point 4.2.3.2.2 (Maintenance plan). 4.3.3.17.
Resistance of the track, switches and crossings to lateral loads Lines specially built for high-speed The track and its components, in their normal service condition as well as in the conditions resulting from maintenance work, shall be able to withstand the maximum limiting lateral forces exerted by high-speed interoperable vehicles, and, where required, by other vehicles.
Provided the requirements of Point 7.3 are met, this requirement shall be deemed to have been met: - by slab track, - by ballasted track if the three following requirements are also met: (1) the components of plain track and switches and crossings, except for the actual switches and crossings, comply with the requirements of Chapter 5 %quot%Interoperability constituents%quot% in respect of the rail (5.2.1), rail fastening systems (5.2.2) and sleepers and bearers (5.2.3) interoperability constituents; (2) the main tracks operated at high-speed are laid on concrete sleepers for their whole length, except for short sections not exceeding 10 m, separated from one another by at least 50 m; (3) the track comprises at least 1600 fastening systems per rail, per kilometre length.
Other types of track components, or other types of track may be used, provided that the adjudicating entity or the Infrastructure Manager demonstrates by a technical study that the system of track construction, as laid, has a resistance to lateral loads equivalent to, or better than that required to withstand the abovementioned maximum limiting lateral forces.
In this case, the conformity assessment shall be made under provisions laid down in Point 6.2.
Lines specially upgraded for high-speed and connecting lines, tracks laid in stations and stabling and service tracks For this element, the requirements for existing lines upgraded for high-speed, for connecting tracks, for tracks in stations which are not operated at high-speed and for service and stabling tracks are met for trains other than interoperable trains.
The requirements set out in the preceding paragraph and in Chapter 5 for the corresponding interoperability constituents may be waived on these lines.
The operational requirements to be respected in maintenance of this element are the subject of the provisions of Point 4.2.3.2.2 (Maintenance plan). 4.3.3.18.
Track geometrical quality Lines specially built for high-speed, lines specially upgraded for high-speed and connecting lines Track geometry defects shall not exceed the following limits for longitudinal level, cross level, line and gauge: %gt%TABLE%gt% Note: QN 1 not applicable. - for longitudinal level and alignment: the QN3 values, defined as above (for absolute maximum values Δy0max and Δz0max max, QN 3 is defined as QN 3 = 1,3 × QN 2), - for track twist: the track twist limit is 5 mm/m for V %amp%gt; 160 km/h and 7 mm/m for V%amp%lt; = 160 km/h, measured on the longitudinal base of 3 m, - for the mean gauge over 100 m, the values given in the track gauge paragraphs (Point 4.3.3.10) of Point 4.3.3 herein for different line performance levels.
The operational requirements to be respected in maintenance of this element are the subject of the provisions of Point 4.2.3.2.2 (Maintenance plan) on in-service tolerances. 4.3.3.19.
Switches and crossings laid on high-speed lines yet to be built for speeds greater than or equal to 280 km/h, shall be built with swing noses.
On future-build high-speed line sections and their connecting lines intended for a maximum speed of less than 280 km/h, switches and crossings with fixed point rails may be used.
The operational requirements to be respected in maintenance of this element are the subject of the provisions of Point 4.2.3.2.2 (Maintenance plan) on in-service tolerances. 4.3.3.21.
Mechanical strength condition The total braking effort of all the braking systems together shall not impart a deceleration (ratio of the braking effort to the weight on rail) of more than 2,5 m/s2 during the highest-energy braking phases, both in terms of the ratio of the total, cumulative effort per train to the whole-train weight and in terms of the ratio of the mean maximum local force exerted by each axle-carrying unit (bogie or bissel truck) to that unit's weight on rail.
Thermal condition Braking systems which are not dependent on wheel-rail adhesion and which dissipate kinetic energy through heating the rail(1) shall not create braking forces of more than: - case 1: 360 kN per train (single or multiple unit trainsets) in the case of emergency braking, - case 2: for other braking cases, such as a normal service braking for speed reduction or non repetitive braking to a halt, or repetitive braking for speed control, pending the publication of the corresponding European specification or CEN standard, the use of the brake and the maximum braking force allowed under the latter conditions of use shall be determined by the Infrastructure Manager for each interoperable line concerned.
Provided the requirements of Point 7.3 of this TSI are observed, this requirement shall be deemed to be met if the requirements for track components set down in Chapter 5 %quot%Interoperability constituents%quot% relating to the rail (5.2.1), the rail fastening systems (5.2.2) and sleepers and bearers (5.2.3) interoperability constituents are met.
Other types of track components, or other types of track superstructure systems may be used, provided that the adjudicating entity or the Infrastructure Manager demonstrates by a technical study that the system of track construction as a whole, as laid, has a resistance to longitudinal loads equivalent to, or better than that required to withstand the maximum longitudinal forces described in the previous paragraph for the mechanical and thermal conditions.
In that case, the conformity assessment shall be made under provisions laid down in Point 6.2.
Lines specially upgraded for high-speed and connecting lines For this element, the requirements for existing lines specially upgraded for high-speed are satisfied for traffic other than interoperable trains.
The requirements stated in the previous paragraph and in Chapter 5 with respect to the corresponding interoperability constituents may be waived on these lines.
The track structure characteristics described in Section A above, together with Point 4.3.3.17, ensure that this requirement can normally be met. - For any line of the trans-European high-speed railway network, the Infrastructure Manager shall define, taking into account local specific features, the permissible conditions for operating brakes in case 2, which can be: - prohibition of this type of brakes for case 2: only emergency braking is allowed, - allowance for the use of such braking systems to the limit stated in Section A above.
Lines specially built for high-speed - The dynamic stiffness of the rail pad of fastening systems on concrete sleepers shall not exceed 600 MN/m. - The overall dynamic stiffness of rail fastening systems on slab track shall not exceed 150 MN/m.
Subject to the requirements of Section 7.3 of this TSI, this requirement shall be deemed to be met if the requirements for track components set down in Chapter 5 %quot%Interoperability constituents%quot% for the fastening systems interoperability constituent (5.2.2) are met.
Other types of track components, or other types of track superstructure systems may be used, provided that the adjudicating entity or the Infrastructure Manager demonstrates by a technical study that the system of track construction as a whole, as laid, has a dynamic stiffness equivalent to, or better than that stated above for slab tracks.
In this case, the conformity assessment shall be made under the provisions of Point 6.2.
Lines specially upgraded for high-speed and connecting lines For this element, the requirements for existing lines specially upgraded for high-speed are satisfied for traffic other than interoperable trains.
The requirements stated in the previous paragraph and in Chapter 5 with respect to the corresponding interoperability constituents may be waived on these lines. 4.3.3.23.
Interim measures that may be necessary to ensure such compatibility are specified in Chapter 7, %quot%Implementation%quot%. 4.3.3.25.
Access to or intrusions into the line installations Lines specially built for high-speed, where the speed is equal to or higher than 300 km/h, shall include lateral protection of the railway right of way so as to prevent undesirable access or intrusions, at least at those sites where the associated risk may be considered as unacceptable.
Passenger platforms Lines specially built for high-speed Passengers must not be able to access areas of platforms close to tracks where trains may run at speeds of 250 km/h or more, except when trains are intended to stop, by either: - limiting train speed on tracks adjacent to platforms, - barriers or any other device limiting access to areas near the tracks.
Provided that the requirements of Point 7.3 are observed, either of the values 550 mm or 760 mm is allowed for platform heights; for a given project specially built for high-speed, a single height shall be set for all the platforms of stations on the line which are accessible to high-speed trains.
The tolerances with reference to the nominal relative positioning between track and platform are: - platform height above the running surface, perpendicular to the running surface: -30 mm / + 0 mm, - distance between the edge of the platform and the centre of the track, parallel to the running surface: -0 mm / + 50 mm.
Existing high-speed lines, lines specially upgraded for high-speed and connecting lines With the exception of the specific cases described in Point 7.3, the provisions set down in the previous paragraph shall be progressively implemented on platforms of existing stations which are open to interoperable high-speed trains, by applying the implementation procedures described in Chapter 7.
These measures can be: - mobile ramps for train access, - rising platforms. 4.3.3.27.
It must therefore be the focus of a specific design study, except when the spaces in the station can be isolated from the spaces subjected to pressure variations by means of direct openings to the outside air of cross-sectional area at least half that of the access tunnel.
Fire protection requirements are described in Point 4.2.3.1.3. 4.3.3.28.
INTEROPERABILITY CONSTITUENTS 5.1.
Consequently, every group of constituents of an interoperable line incorporating all or part of the constituents listed below shall be required to be compliant with the specifications pertaining to each of the constituents involved. - the rail, (5.2.1: railhead profile and rail steel grade) - the rail fastening systems (5.2.2) - track sleepers and bearers (5.2.3) - switches and crossings (5.2.4).
The following sections describe the specifications applicable to each of these constituents. 5.2.1.
The rail In line with Annex IV(2) to the Directive, the intrinsic specifications of the %quot%rail%quot% interoperability constituent are the following: - the railhead profile shall comprise a side slope on the flank of the head angled at between 1/20 and 1/17,2 with reference to the vertical axis of the head, followed in moving towards the top surface of the head by a succession of curves with a radius of 12,7 or 13 mm, then 80 and 300 mm as far as the vertical axis of the railhead, - the minimum mass of the rail shall be more than 53 kg/m, - the steel grade of the rail shall be as defined by the CEN standard applicable.
The specifications of the %quot%rail%quot% interoperability constituent make reference to the characteristics defined: - for plain line rails: - the applicable railhead profile specifications are defined in Annex K2 to the present TSI, - the applicable rail steel grade specifications are defined in Annex K1 to the present TSI. - for rails specific to switches and crossings: - the applicable railhead profile specifications shall be those adopted for the rail profiles defined in Annex L2 to the present TSI, - the applicable rail steel grade specifications shall be those defined in Annex L1 to the present TSI.
The rail fastening systems The applicable specifications for the %quot%rail fastening systems%quot% interoperability constituent entailing definition of the constituent's interfaces, in the sense of Annex IV(2) to the Directive are the following: - the minimum resistance to rail longitudinal slip in the fastening system shall be greater than 9 kN, except for %quot%sliding%quot% fastening systems on structures and expansion joints, - the resistance to repeated loading shall be at least the same as that required for main line track in the CEN Standard (test load of 70 to 80 kN depending on the stiffness of the rail pad), - the dynamic stiffness of the rail pad shall not exceed 600 MN/m for fastening systems on concrete sleepers, - the overall dynamic stiffness of the fastening systems for rail in slab track shall not exceed 150 MN/m, - the minimal electrical resistance required is 5 kΩ; certain control command and signalling systems may make higher resistance values necessary, the value obtained in the test defined hereinafter shall be mentioned on the certificate of conformity and it shall be considered as the one certified for purposes of interoperability.
The assessment of in service behaviour must also be made with those same combinations, on a line where the speed of the fastest trains shall be at least 160 km/h and the heaviest axle load of the rolling stock shall be at least 170 kN, where at least 1/3 of the fastening systems tested are laid on curves. 5.2.3.
Track sleepers and bearers The applicable intrinsic specifications for the %quot%track sleepers and bearers%quot% interoperability constituent are the following: - the mass of the sleepers or track bearers used in ballasted track shall be at least 220 kg, - concrete sleepers shall have a minimum length of 2,25 m.
The assessment of conformity of the constituent %quot%track sleepers and bearers%quot% to the above specifications is subject to the provisions set in Point 6.1. 5.2.4.
The intrinsic specifications for the %quot%switches and crossings%quot% interoperability constituent are the following: - the rail constituents of the switches and crossings shall comply with the specifications of the %quot%rail%quot% interoperability constituent, - the plain line rail fastening systems used in switches and crossings outside of the switch and crossing zones shall comply with the specifications of the %quot%rail fastening systems%quot% interoperability constituent, - the functional design dimensions, namely the width of the flangeways, the dimension of nose protection, the running clearance, the height of raised check rails and the track gauge, shall meet the specifications of point 4.3.3 for the elements %quot%switches and crossings: functional conditions%quot% (Point 4.3.3.20) and %quot%track gauge and tolerances%quot% (Point 4.3.3.10) as concerns the design values and their tolerances, - for each type of switch or crossing, the operational conditions of use shall be defined by the manufacturer, who shall determine and specify the following: - depending on their use in straight or curved layouts, the allowable speeds on the diverging line, to comply with the applicable specifications under Point 4.3.3 for the element %quot%cant deficiency on diverging track of switches and crossings%quot% (Point 4.3.3.8 (b)): the cant deficiency on diverging track shall be limited to 85 mm or 100 mm according to the intended speed through the layout, - the permissible speeds on the main line route shall be set according to whether or not the switch has a swing-nose and as a function of the rail inclination, as per the specifications of Point 4.3.3 for the two elements %quot%switches and crossings: functional conditions%quot% (4.3.3.20) and %quot%rail inclination%quot% (4.3.3.11).
The applicable specifications for the %quot%switches and crossings%quot% interoperability constituent make reference to the following characteristics: rails and rail fastening systems used on plain line track in switches and crossings: the applicable specifications and standards for these components are defined in the paragraphs relevant to these constituents, intrinsic specifications for the subsystem: - the functional dimensions are mentioned in Point 4.3.3.20 of this TSI, - the operational conditions for running over the diverging line are given in Point 4.3.3 of this TSI.
INTEROPERABILITY CONSTITUENTS 6.1.1.
Assessment procedures for conformity and suitability for use, description of the testing methods for the interoperability constituents: rail, rail fastenings, track sleepers and bearers, and switches and crossings, as defined in Chapter 5 of this TSI, are indicated in Annex A to this TSI.
The manufacturer of an interoperability constituent or his authorised representative established within the Community shall draw up an EC declaration of conformity or an EC declaration of suitability for use in accordance with Article 13(1) of, and Annex IV Chapter 3 to, Directive 96/48/EC before placing the interoperability constituent on the market.
An EC declaration of suitability for use is only required for the interoperability constituent %quot%rail fastening system%quot% of the infrastructure subsystem.
In this case, the properties and specifications of the constituent, which contribute to the requirements specified for the subsystem, shall be completely described with their interfaces during this initial verification to enable further evaluation as a constituent of the subsystem.
Further conformity assessment of this constituent shall be done following the modules described in Point 6.1.2.1 below for %quot%new products%quot%. 6.1.2.
Definition of assessment procedures These assessments procedures are defined in Annex C of this TSI. 6.2.
Assessment procedures (modules) At the request of the adjudicating entity or its authorised representative established within the Community, the notified body carries out the EC verification in accordance with Article 18(1) of and Annex VI to Directive 96/48/EC, and in accordance with the provisions of the relevant modules as specified in Annex C of this TSI.
The adjudicating entity shall draw up the EC declaration of verification for the infrastructure subsystem in accordance with Article 18(1) of and Annex V to Directive 96/48/EC. 6.2.2.
Application of modules For the verification procedure of the infrastructure subsystem, the adjudicating entity or its authorised representative in the Community may choose either: - the unit verification procedure (module SG) indicated in Annex C.8 of this TSI, or - full quality assurance with design examination procedure (module SH2) indicated in Annex C.9 of this TSI.
The SH2 module may be chosen only where the activities contributing to the proposed subsystem to be verified (design, manufacturing, assembling, installation) are subject to a quality system for design, production, final product inspection and testing, approved and surveyed by a notified body.
The assessment shall cover the phases and characteristics as indicated in Annex B, Tables B.1 to B.10 to this TSI.
Authority to put the subsystem into service shall be given by a Member state, in accordance with Article 14 of Directive 96/48/EC and following the procedure of Annex VI to the Directive. 6.3.1.
Verification of track conformity The adjudicating entity, or its representative, or the Infrastructure Manager shall define, in connection with the State Authority concerned, the practical measures and the different phases which are necessary for allowing, in due time, the opening to service with the required performances.
The limit values defined by the Member State for these parameters in view of granting fitness for service of the line shall not exceed the corresponding limits specified in CEN standard prENV 256016 (currently draft version: CEN/TC 256 N 368 as by 22 March 1999 or UIC Leaflet 518, 2nd edition, 1 October 1999 issue).
SPECIFIC CASES The following special provisions are authorised in the following specific cases.
As to tempory cases, it is recommended that the target system is reached either by 2010 (cases %quot%T1%quot%), an objective set in Decision No 1692/96/EC of the European Parliament and Council of 23 July 1996 on Community guidelines for the development of the trans-European transport network, or by 2020 (cases %quot%T2%quot%). 7.3.1.
Particular features on the German network (P case) Maximum falling and rising gradients On the high-speed line between Cologne and Frankfurt (Rhein-Main), the maximum falling and rising gradients have been set at 40 [permil ].
Pantograph gauge On existing lines upgraded for high-speed, on connecting lines and in stations, the infrastructure gauge shall be set for a pantograph width of 1950 mm. 7.3.2.
Particular features on the Austrian network Pantograph gauge (T1 case) On existing lines upgraded for high-speed, on connecting lines and in stations, the infrastructure gauge shall be set for a pantograph width of 1950 mm. 7.3.3.
Particular features on the Danish network Minimum length of passenger platforms and stabling tracks (P case) On the lines of the Danish network, the minimum length for passenger platforms and stabling tracks is reduced to 320 m. 7.3.4.
Pantograph gauge (P case) On existing lines built or upgraded for high-speed, on connecting lines and in stations, the infrastructure gauge shall be set for a pantograph width of 1950 mm.
Track centre distance (P case) On existing lines upgraded for high-speed and connecting lines, the distance between track centres may be reduced to a nominal value of 3,808 m. 7.3.5.
Pantograph gauge The normal height of the contact wire is 6150 mm.
Minimum length of passenger platforms and stabling tracks On the lines of the Finnish network, the minimum usable length for passenger platforms and stabling tracks is set at 350 m.
Platform The distance between the track centre line and the platform edge is 1800 mm. 7.3.6.
Particular features on the British network (P cases) Platform height Platforms used on upgraded lines in Great Britain shall have a standard height of 915 mm with a tolerance of + 0/-50 mm.
Minimum platform length The minimum platform length is reduced to 300 m on the upgraded lines of the British network, so as to cope for the limitation of trains' length to 320 m on the upgraded lines of the network.
Stabling tracks: minimum length On the upgraded lines of the British network, the length of stabling tracks may be limited so as to accommodate for a maximum train length of 320 m.
Structure gauge The minimum structure gauge on upgraded lines in Great Britain shall allow passage of trains to the UK1 loading gauge.
Pantograph gauge On existing lines upgraded for high-speed and their connecting lines, the normal height of the contact wire is 4720 mm (minimum 4170 mm, maximum 5940 mm).
Distance between track centres The minimum nominal distance between track centres on upgraded lines in Great Britain shall be 3165 mm. 7.3.7.
Structure gauge The structure gauge of some sections of the Athinai-Thessaloniki-Idomeni line is limited to GA or GB (P case). 7.3.8.
Minimum radius of curvature As a track gauge of 1602 mm will be kept, the provisions of the present TSI concerning the minimum curve radius and the associated elements (track cant and cant deficiency) are not applicable on the railway networks of Ireland and Northern Ireland.
Minimum length of passenger platforms and stabling tracks On the lines of Ireland and Northern Ireland networks, the minimum usable length for passenger platforms and stabling tracks used by high-speed trains is set at 215 m.
Platform height On the lines of Ireland and Northern Ireland networks, platforms shall have a design height of 915 mm.
Distance between track centres The minimum distance between track centres on existing lines in Ireland and Northern Ireland shall be increased in advance of upgrading to ensure safe passing clearance between trains. 7.3.9.
Particular features on the Netherlands network Platform height is 840 mm on category II and III lines (P case). 7.3.10.
Particular features on the Portuguese network Track gauge of 1668 mm on category II and III lines (P case). 7.3.11.
Particular features on the Swedish network (P cases) Minimum platform length The minimum platform length in the case of low traffic lines is reduced to 225 m.
Stabling tracks: minimum length The length of stabling tracks may be limited so as to accommodate for a maximum train length of 225 m. 7.4.
This provision shall apply in particular to the following parameters: - platform lengths: the position of stations will be chosen in such a way as to allow a length in excess of 400 m, - pantograph clearance: in some cases economic constraints have led to the choice of continuous current electrification at the project design stage.
RECOMMENDATIONS 7.5.1.
Characteristics linked to the carriage of disabled persons (BP22) In addition to the provisions of Point 4.1.9, infrastructures have to take into account, as appropriate, the results of the COST 335 Action. (1) The rail temperature increase due to energy dissipated in it amounts to 0,035 °C per kN of braking force per rail string; the case 1 described (for both rail strings) thus corresponds to rail temperature increases of around 6 °C per train. (2) See Annex N. (3) See Annex M. (4) See Annex O.
Characteristics to be assessed, testing methods and modules The characteristics of the interoperability constituents to be assessed in the different phases of design, production and assembly are described in the following Sections A.3 to A.7.
Characteristics and modules The characteristics of the subsystem to be assessed in the different phases of design, assembly, installation and operation are marked by X in Tables B.1 to B.10.
This module describes the procedure whereby the manufacturer or his authorised representative established within the Community, who carries out the obligations laid down in Point 2, ensures and declares that the interoperability constituent concerned satisfies the requirements of the TSI that apply to it. 2.
So far as relevant for the assessment, the documentation must contain: - a general description of the interoperability constituent, - conceptual design and manufacturing drawings and schemes of components, subassemblies, circuits, etc., - descriptions and explanations necessary for the understanding of the said drawings and schemes and the operation of the interoperability constituent, - a list of the technical specifications (relevant TSI and/or European specifications with relevant clauses, referred to in the TSI), applied in full or in part, - descriptions of the solutions adopted to meet the requirements of this TSI, where the European specifications referred to in the TSI have not been applied in full, - results of design calculations made, examinations carried out, etc., - test reports. 4.
The manufacturer must take all the measures necessary in order that the manufacturing process ensures compliance of the manufactured interoperability constituent with the technical documentation referred to in Point 2 and with the requirements of the TSI that apply to it. 5.
The content of this declaration has to include at least the information, indicated in Directive 96/48/EC, Annex IV(3) and in Article 13(3).
The EC declaration of conformity and the accompanying documents must be dated and signed.
The declaration must be written in the same language as the technical file and must contain the following: - the directive reference (Directive 96/48/EC and other directives to which the interoperability constituent may be subject), - the name and address of the manufacturer or his authorised representative established within the Community (give trade name and full address and in the case of authorised representative also give the trade name of the manufacturer or constructor), - description of interoperability constituent (make, type, etc.), - description of the procedure (module) followed in order to declare conformity, - all the relevant descriptions met by the interoperability constituent and in particular its conditions of use, - reference to this TSI and to any other applicable TSI, and where appropriate reference to European Specifications, - identification of signatory having received power to engage the manufacturer or his authorised representative established within the Community. 6.
If additional to the EC declaration of conformity an EC declaration for suitability for use for the interoperability constituent is required by the TSI, this declaration has to be added after being issued by the manufacturer under the conditions of Module V.
The application for the type-examination must be lodged by the manufacturer or his authorised representative established within the Community with a notified body of his choice.
The application must include: - the name and address of the manufacturer and, if the application is lodged by the authorised representative, his name and address in addition, - a written declaration that the same application has not been lodged with any other notified body, - the technical documentation, as described in Point 3.
The technical documentation must contain: - a general type-description, - conceptual design and manufacturing drawings and schemes of components, subassemblies, circuits, etc., - descriptions and explanations necessary for the understanding of said drawings and schemes and the operation of the product, - conditions of integration of the interoperability constituent in its system environment (subassembly, assembly, subsystem) and the necessary interface conditions, - conditions for use and maintenance of the interoperability constituent (restrictions of running time or distance, wear limits etc.), - a list of the technical specifications, against which the conformity of the interoperability constituent is to be assessed (relevant TSI and/or European specification with relevant clauses), - descriptions of the solutions adopted to meet the requirements of the TSI in cases where the European specification referred to in the TSI have not been applied in full, - results of design calculations made, examinations carried out, etc., - test reports. 4.
Perform or have performed the appropriate examinations and necessary tests in accordance with Points 4.2, 4.3 and 4.4 to establish whether, where the appropriate European specifications referred to in the TSI have not been applied, the solutions adopted by the manufacturer meet the requirements of the TSI; 4.7.
The time period of validity shall be no longer than three years.
This procedure can be reiterated. 8.
Each notified body must communicate to the other notified bodies the relevant information concerning the type-examination certificates it has withdrawn or refused. 9.
The manufacturer or his authorised representative must keep, with the technical documentation, copies of EC type-examination certificates and their additions for a period of 10 years after the last product has been manufactured.
Module D (production quality assurance) Conformity assessment of interoperability constituents (%quot%new products%quot%) 1.
This module describes the procedure whereby the manufacturer who satisfies the obligations of Point 2 ensures and declares that the interoperability constituent concerned is in conformity with the type as described in the EC type-examination certificate and satisfies the requirements of the Directive 96/48/EC and of the TSI that apply to it. 2.
The manufacturer must operate an approved quality system for production, final product inspection and testing as specified in Point 3 and is subject to monitoring as specified in Point 4. 3.
Quality system 3.1.
The manufacturer must lodge an application for assessment of his quality system with a notified body of his choice, for the interoperability constituents concerned.
The application must include: - all relevant information for the product category representative for the interoperability constituents envisaged, - the documentation concerning the quality system, - the technical documentation of the approved type and a copy of the type-examination certificate. 3.2.
The quality system must ensure compliance of the interoperability constituents with the type as described in the EC type-examination certificate and with the requirements of the Directive 96/48/EC and of the TSI that apply to them.
It must contain in particular an adequate description of: - the quality objectives and the organisational structure, - responsibilities and powers of the management with regard to product quality, - the manufacturing, quality control and quality assurance techniques, processes and systematic actions that will be used, - the examinations and tests that will be carried out before, during and after manufacture, and the frequency with which they will be carried out, - the quality records, such as inspection reports and test data, calibration data, qualification reports of the personnel concerned, etc., - the means to monitor the achievement of the required product quality and the effective operation of the quality system. 3.3.
The notified body must assess the quality system to determine whether it satisfies the requirements referred to in Point 3.2.
The notification must contain the conclusions of the examination and the reasoned assessment decision. 3.4.
The notified body must evaluate the modifications proposed and decide whether the amended quality system will still satisfy the requirements referred to in Point 3.2 or whether a re-assessment is required.
The notification must contain the conclusions of the examination and the reasoned assessment decision. 3.5.
Each notified body must communicate to the other notified bodies the relevant information concerning the quality system approvals which it has withdrawn or refused. 3.6.
The other notified bodies may receive copies of the quality system approvals issued on request. 4.
The purpose of surveillance is to make sure that the manufacturer duly fulfils the obligations arising out of the approved quality system. 4.2.
The manufacturer must allow the notified body entrance, for inspection purposes, to the locations of manufacture, inspection and testing, and storage and must provide it with all necessary information, in particular: - the quality system documentation, - the quality records, such as inspection reports and test data, calibration data, qualification reports of the personnel concerned, etc. 4.3.
The frequency of the audits shall be at least once a year. 4.4.
The manufacturer must, for a period of 10 years after the last product has been manufactured, keep at the disposal of the national authorities: - the documentation referred to in the second indent of Point 3.1, - the updating referred to in Point 3.4, - the decisions and reports from the notified body which are referred to in the final paragraph of Point 3.4, Points 4.3 and 4.4. 6.
The manufacturer or his authorised representative established within the Community must draw up the EC declaration of conformity of the interoperability constituent.
The content of this declaration has to include at least the information, indicated in Directive 96/48/EC, Annex IV(3) and Article 13(3).
The EC declaration of conformity and the accompanying documents must be dated and signed.
The declaration must be written in the same language as the technical file and must contain the following: - the directive references (Directive 96/48/EC and other directives, to which the interoperability constituent may be subject), - the name and address of the manufacturer or his authorised representative established within the Community (give trade name and full address and in the case of authorised representative also give the trade name of the manufacturer or constructor), - description of interoperability constituent (make, type, etc.), - description of the procedure (module) followed in order to declare conformity, - all of the relevant descriptions met by the interoperability constituent and in particular its conditions of use, - name and address of notified body (bodies) involved in the procedure followed in respect of conformity and date of examination certificates together with the duration and conditions of validity of the certificate, - reference to this TSI and any other applicable TSI and where appropriate reference to European specification, - identification of signatory having received power to engage the manufacturer or his authorised representative established within the Community.
The certificates to be referred to: - the quality system approval and surveillance reports indicated in Points 3 and 4, - the type-examination certificate and its additions, 7.
The manufacturer or his authorised representative must keep a copy of the EC declaration of conformity for a period of 10 years after the last interoperability constituent has been manufactured.
If additional to the EC declaration of conformity an EC declaration of suitability for use for the interoperability constituent is requested in the TSI, this declaration has to be added, after being issued by the manufacturer under the conditions of Module V.
This module describes that part of the procedure whereby a manufacturer or his authorised representative established within the Community checks and attests that the interoperability constituent concerned and subject to the provisions of Point 3 is in conformity with the type as described in the EC type-examination certificate and satisfies the requirements of the Directive 96/48/EC and the TSI that apply to it. 2.
The manufacturer must take all measures necessary in order that the manufacturing process ensures conformity of the interoperability constituents with the type as described in the type-examination certificate and with the requirements of the TSI that apply to them. 3.
The notified body must carry out the appropriate examinations and tests in order to check the conformity of the interoperability constituent with the type as described in the EC type-examination certificate and with the requirements of the Directive 96/48/EC and the TSI either by examination and testing of every interoperability constituent as specified in Point 4 or by examination and testing of interoperability constituents on a statistical basis, as specified in Point 5, at the choice of the manufacturer. 4.
All products must be individually examined and appropriate tests as set out in the relevant European specifications referred to in Article 10 or equivalent tests shall be carried out in order to verify their conformity with the type as described in the EC type-examination certificate and the requirements of the Directive 96/48/EC and the TSI that apply to them. 4.2.
The notified body must draw up a written certificate of conformity relating to the tests carried out. 4.3.
Statistical verification 5.1.
The manufacturer must present his interoperability constituents in the form of homogeneous lots and shall take all measures necessary in order that the manufacturing process ensures the homogeneity of each lot produced. 5.2.
All interoperability constituents must be available for verification in the form of homogeneous lots.
The manufacturer or his authorised representative established within the Community must draw up the EC declaration of conformity of the interoperability constituent.
The content of this declaration has to include at least the information, indicated in Directive 96/48/EC, Annex IV(3) and in Article 13(3).
The EC declaration of conformity and the accompanying documents must be dated and signed.
The declaration must be written in the same language as the technical file and must contain the following: - the directive references (Directive 96/48/EC and other directives, to which the interoperability constituent may be subject), - the name and address of the manufacturer or his authorised representative established within the Community (give trade name and full address and in the case of authorised representative also give the trade name of the manufacturer or constructor), - description of interoperability constituent (make, type, etc.) - description of the procedure (module) followed in order to declare conformity, - all of the relevant descriptions met by the interoperability constituent and in particular its conditions of use, - name and address of notified body (bodies) involved in the procedure followed in respect of conformity and date of examination certificates together with the duration and conditions of validity of the certificate, - reference to this TSI and any other applicable TSI and where appropriate reference to European specification, - identification of signatory having received power to engage the manufacturer or his authorised representative established within the Community.
The certificates to be referred to: - the EC type-examination certificate and its additions, - the Certificate of conformity as mentioned under Point 5 or 6. 7.
If additional to the EC declaration of conformity an EC declaration of suitability for use for the interoperability constituent is requested in the TSI, this declaration has to be added, after being issued by the manufacturer under the conditions of Module V.
The manufacturer must operate an approved quality system for design, manufacture and final product inspection and testing as specified in Point 3 and shall be subject to surveillance as specified in Point 4. 3.
Quality system 3.1.
The manufacturer must lodge an application for assessment of his quality system with a notified body.
The application must include: - all relevant information for the product category representative for the interoperability constituent envisaged, - the quality system's documentation. 3.2.
This quality system documentation shall ensure a common understanding of the quality policies and procedures such as quality programmes, plans, manuals and records.
It must contain in particular an adequate description of: - the quality objectives and the organisational structure, - responsibilities and powers of the management with regard to design and product quality, - the technical design specifications, including European specifications, that will be applied, and, where the European specifications referred to in Article 10 will not be applied in full, the means that will be used to ensure that the requirements of the Directive 96/48/EC and of the TSI that apply to the interoperability constituent will be met, - the design control and design verification techniques, processes and systematic actions that will be used when designing the interoperability constituents pertaining to the product category covered, - the corresponding manufacturing, quality control and quality assurance techniques, processes and systematic actions that will be used, - the examinations and tests that will be carried out before, during and after manufacture, and the frequency with which they will be carried out, - the quality records, such as inspection reports and test data, calibration data, qualification reports of the personnel concerned, etc., - the means to monitor the achievement of the required design and product quality and the effective operation of the quality system.
The quality policies and procedures shall cover in particular the assessment phases, as design review, review of manufacturing process and type tests, as they are specified in the TSI for different characteristics and performances of the interoperability constituent. 3.3.
The notified body must assess the quality system to determine whether it satisfies the requirements referred to in Point 3.2.
The notification must contain the conclusions of the examination and the reasoned assessment decision. 3.4.
The manufacturer or his authorised representative must keep the notified body that has approved the quality system informed of any intended updating of the quality system.
The notified body must evaluate the modifications proposed and decide whether the amended quality system will still satisfy the requirements referred to in Point 3.2 or whether a re-assessment is required.
The notification shall contain the conclusions of the examination and the reasoned assessment decision. 4.
The purpose of surveillance is to make sure that the manufacturer duly fulfils the obligations arising out of the approved quality system. 4.2.
The manufacturer must allow the notified body entrance for inspection purposes to the locations of design, manufacture, inspection and testing, and storage, and shall provide it with all necessary information, in particular: - the quality system documentation, - the quality records as foreseen by the design part of the quality system, such as results of analyses, calculations, tests, etc., - the quality records as foreseen by the manufacturing part of the quality system, such as inspection reports and test data, calibration data, qualification reports of the personnel concerned, etc. 4.3.
The frequency of the audits shall be at least once a year. 4.4.
The manufacturer must, for a period of 10 years after the last product has been manufactured, keep at the disposal of the national authorities: - the documentation referred to in the second indent of the second subparagraph of Point 3.1, - the updating referred to in the second subparagraph of Point 3.4, - the decisions and reports from the notified body which are referred to in the final subparagraph of Points 3.4, 4.3 and 4.4. 6.
The manufacturer must lodge an application for examination of the design of the interoperability constituent with a notified body. 6.2.
It must include: - the technical design specifications, including European specifications, that have been applied, - the necessary supporting evidence for their adequacy, in particular where the European specifications referred to in Article 10 have not been applied in full.
This supporting evidence must include the results of tests carried out by the appropriate laboratory of the manufacturer or on his behalf. 6.3.
The time period of validity shall be no longer than three years. 6.4.
This procedure can be reiterated. 7.
Each notified body must communicate to the other notified bodies the relevant information concerning the quality system approvals and the design examination certificates which it has withdrawn or refused.
The other notified bodies may receive copies of: - the quality system approvals and additional approvals issued, and - the design examination certificates and additions issued on request. 8.
The manufacturer or his authorised representative established within the Community must draw up the EC declaration of conformity of the interoperability constituent.
The content of this declaration has to include at least the information, indicated in Directive 96/48/EC, Annex IV(3) and in Article 13(3).
The EC declaration of conformity and its accompanying documents must be dated and signed.
The declaration must be written in the same language as the technical file and must contain the following: - the directive references (Directive 96/48/EC and other directives to which the interoperability constituent may be subject), - the name and address of the manufacturer or his authorised representative established within the Community (give trade name and full address and in the case of authorised representative also give the trade name of the manufacturer or constructor), - description of interoperability constituent (make, type, etc.), - description of the procedure (module) followed in order to declare conformity, - all of the relevant descriptions met by the interoperability constituent and in particular its conditions of use, - name and address of the notified body(ies) involved in the procedure followed in respect of conformity and date of examination certificates together with the duration and conditions of validity of the certificate, - reference to this TSI and other applicable TSI and where appropriate to European specifications, - identification of signatory having received power to engage the manufacturer or his authorised representative established within the Community.
The certificates to be referred to: - the quality system approval and surveillance reports indicated in Points 3 and 4, - the design examination certificate and its additions. 9.
The manufacturer or his authorised representative must keep a copy of the EC declaration of conformity for a period of 10 years after the last interoperability constituent has been manufactured.
If additional to the EC declaration of conformity an EC declaration of suitability for use for the interoperability constituent is requested in the TSI, this declaration has to be added, after being issued by the manufacturer under the conditions of Module V.
The application for the type-validation of in-service experience must be lodged by the manufacturer or his authorised representative established within the Community with a notified body of his choice.
The application must include: - the name and address of the manufacturer and, if the application is lodged by the authorised representative, his name and address in addition, - a written declaration that the same application has not been lodged with any other notified body, - the technical documentation, as described in Point 3, - the programme for validation of in service experience, as described in Point 4, - the name and address of the company (infrastructure manager or railway enterprise), with which the applicant has obtained an agreement to contribute to a suitability for use assessment by in-service experience: - by operating the interoperability constituent in service, - by monitoring the in-service behaviour, and - by issuing a final report about in-service experience, - the name and the address of the company, undertaking the maintenance of the interoperability constituent during the time period or running distance, required for in service experience, - an EC declaration of conformity for the interoperability constituent, and - if Module B is required in the TSI, an EC type-examination certificate, - if Module H2 is required in the TSI, an EC design examination certificate.
The technical documentation must contain: - a general type-description, - the technical specification(s), against which the performance and in-service behaviour of the interoperability constituent is to be assessed (relevant TSI and/or European specification with relevant clauses), - schemes of components, subassemblies, circuits, etc., - conditions of integration of the interoperability constituent in its system environment (subassembly, assembly, subsystem) and the necessary interface conditions, - conditions for use and maintenance of the interoperability constituent (restrictions of running time or distance, wear limits etc.), - descriptions and explanations necessary for the understanding of said drawings and schemes and the operation of the interoperability constituent and, as far as is relevant for assessment, - conceptual design and manufacturing drawings, - results of design calculations made and examinations carried out, - test reports.
The programme for the validation by in-service experience must include: - the required performance or behaviour in service of the interoperability constituent under trial, - the installation arrangements, - the duration of the programme - either time or distance, - the operating conditions and the service programme expected, - the maintenance programme, - the special in-service tests, if any, to be performed, - the batch size of the specimens - if more than one, - the inspection programme (nature, number and frequency of inspections, documentation), - criteria for tolerable defects and their impact on the programme, - the information to be included in the report of the company operating the interoperability constituent in-service (see Point 2). 5.
The notified body must: 5.1.
The time period of validity shall be no longer than three years.
This procedure can be reiterated. 9.
Each notified body must communicate to the other notified bodies the relevant information concerning the certificates of suitability for use it has withdrawn or refused. 10.
The manufacturer or his authorised representative established within the Community must draw up the EC declaration of suitability for use of the interoperability constituent.
The content of this declaration has to include at least the information, indicated in Directive 96/48/EC, Annex IV(3) and in Article 13(3).
The declaration must be written in the same language of the technical file and must contain the following: - the directive references (Directive 96/48/EC), - the name and address of the manufacturer or his authorised representative established within the Community (give trade name and full address and in the case of authorised representative also give the trade name of the manufacturer or constructor), - description of interoperability constituent (make, type, etc.) - all of the relevant descriptions met by the interoperability constituent and in particular its conditions of use, - name and address of notified body(ies) involved in the procedure followed in respect of suitability for use and date of suitability for use certificate together with the duration and conditions of validity of the certificate, - reference to this TSI and to any other applicable TSI, and where appropriate reference to European specification, - identification of signatory having received power to engage the manufacturer or his authorised representative established within the Community. 13.
The manufacturer or his authorised representative must keep a copy of the EC declaration of suitability for use for a period of 10 years after the last interoperability constituent has been manufactured.
Module SG (unit verification) EC verification of the infrastructure subsystem 1.
This module describes the EC verification procedure whereby a notified body checks and certifies, at the request of an adjudicating entity or its authorised representative established within the Community, that an infrastructure subsystem: - complies with the Directive 96/48/EC, this TSI and other applicable TSI, - complies with the other regulations deriving from the Treaty and may be put into service. 2.
The adjudicating entity or its authorised representative established within the Community must lodge an application for EC verification (through unit verification) of the subsystem with a notified body of his choice.
The application includes: - name and address of the adjudicating entity or its authorised representative, - the technical documentation. 3.
It must include: - a general description of the subsystem, overall design and structure, - the Infrastructure Register, including all indications as specified in the TSI (Annex E), - conceptual design and manufacturing drawings and schemes of subassemblies, circuits, etc., - technical documentation as regards the manufacturing and the assembling of the subsystem, - the technical design specifications, including European specifications, that have been applied, - the necessary supporting evidence for their adequacy, in particular where European specifications referred to in the TSI and the relevant clauses have not been applied in full, - a list of the interoperability constituents, to be incorporated into the subsystem, - a list of manufacturers, involved in the subsystem's design, manufacturing, assembling and installation, - a list of the European specifications referred to in the TSI or in the technical design specification.
To enable the assessment of complex infrastructure projects comprising different construction elements, which are built or assembled in sequence, the application may be divided into several steps or phases, as described in Annex D of this TSI.
The notified body responsible for the EC verification shall then examine if all steps or phases define a comprehensive and coherent sequence of design, production and construction activities enabling the overall conformity of the subsystem to be assessed. 4.
The examinations, tests and checking shall extend to the following stages as provided for in the TSI: - overall design, - structure of subsystem, including, in particular and when relevant, civil engineering activities, constituent assembly, overall adjustments, - final testing of the subsystem, - and, whenever specified in the TSI, the validation under full operational conditions. 5.
Where the subsystem meets the requirements of the TSI, the notified body must then, based on the tests, verifications and checkings carried out as required in the TSI and in the European specifications referred to in the TSI, draw up the certificate of EC verification intended for the adjudicating entity or its authorised representative established within the Community, which in turn draws up the EC declaration of verification intended for the supervisory authority in the Member state where the subsystem is located and/or operates.
The EC declaration of verification and the accompanying documents must be dated and signed.
The declaration must be written in the same language as the technical file and must contain at least the information included in Annex V of Directive 96/48/EC. 8.
The technical file has to include at least the information, indicated in Directive 96/48/EC, Article 18(3), and in particular as follows: - all necessary documents relating to the characteristics of the subsystem, - list of interoperability constituents incorporated into the subsystem, - copies of the EC declarations of conformity and, where appropriate, of the EC declarations of suitability for use, which said constituents must be provided in accordance with Article 13 of the Directive, accompanied, where appropriate, by the corresponding documents (certificates, quality system approval and surveillance documents) issued by the notified bodies on the basis of the TSI, - all elements relating to conditions and limits for use, - all elements relating to the instructions concerning servicing, constant or routine monitoring, adjustment and maintenance, - certificate of EC verification of the notified body as mentioned under Point 7, accompanied by corresponding calculation notes and countersigned by itself, stating that the project complies with the directive and the TSI, and mentioning, where appropriate, reservations recorded during performance of activities and not withdrawn; the certificate should also be accompanied, if relevant, by the inspection and audit reports drawn up in connection with the verification, - the Infrastructure Register, including all indications as specified in the TSI. 9.
Module SH2 (full quality assurance with design examination) EC verification of the infrastructure subsystem 1.
This module describes the EC verification procedure whereby a notified body checks and certifies, at the request of an adjudicating entity or its authorised representative established within the Community, that an infrastructure subsystem: - complies with the Directive 96/48/EC, this TSI and other applicable TSI, - complies with the other regulations deriving from the Treaty and may be put into service.
The main contractor responsible for the whole subsystem project (including in particular responsibility for subsystem integration), must operate in any case an approved quality system for design, manufacture and final product inspection and testing, as specified in Point 3 and which shall be subject to surveillance as specified in Point 4.
In the case, that the adjudicating entity is directly involved in the design and/or production (including assembling and installation), or that the adjudicating entity itself is responsible for the whole subsystem project (including in particular responsibility for subsystem integration), it has to operate an approved quality system for those activities, as specified in Point 3 and subject to surveillance as specified in Point 4. 3.
Quality system 3.1.
The application must include: - all relevant information for the subsystem envisaged, - the quality system's documentation.
For manufacturers only involved in a part of the subsystem project, the information is only requested for that specific relevant part. 3.2.
This quality system documentation shall ensure a common understanding of the quality policies and procedures such as quality programmes, plans, manuals and records.
It must contain in particular an adequate description of the following items: - for all applicants: - the quality objectives and the organisational structure, - the corresponding manufacturing, quality control and quality assurance techniques, processes and systematic actions that will be used, - the examinations, the checking and tests that will be carried out before, during and after manufacture, assembling and installation and the frequency with which they will be carried out, - the quality records, such as inspection reports and test data, calibration data, qualification reports of the personnel concerned, etc., - for the main contractor and for the subsuppliers (only as far as relevant for their specific contribution to the subsystem project): - the technical design specifications, including European specifications, that will be applied and, where the European specifications referred to in Article 10 will not be applied in full, the means that will be used to ensure that the requirements of the TSI that apply to the subsystem will be met, - the design control and design verification techniques, processes and systematic actions that will be used when designing the subsystem, - the means to monitor the achievement of the required design and subsystem quality and the effective operation of the quality system, - and for the main contractor: - responsibilities and powers of the management with regard to design and subsystem quality, including subsystem integration management, - the means to monitor the achievement of the required design and subsystem quality and the effective operation of the quality system.
The examinations, tests and checking shall cover all of the following stages: - overall design, - structure of subsystem, including, in particular, civil engineering activities, constituent assembly, overall adjustment, - final testing of the subsystem, - and, where specified in the TSI, the validation under full operation conditions. 3.3.
The notified body referred to in Point 3.1 must assess the quality system to determine whether it satisfies the requirements referred to in Point 3.2.
The notification must contain the conclusions of the examination and the reasoned assessment decision. 3.4.
The notified body must evaluate the modifications proposed and decide whether the amended quality system will still satisfy the requirements referred to in Point 3.2 or whether a re-assessment is required.
The notification shall contain the conclusions of the examination and the reasoned assessment decision. 4.
The manufacturer(s), and if involved the adjudicating entity or its authorised representative established within the Community must send the notified body referred to under Point 3.1 (or have sent it) all the documents needed for that purpose and in particular the implementation plans and technical records concerning the subsystem (as far as relevant for the specific contribution of the applicant to the subsystem), in particular: - the quality system documentation, including the particular means implemented to ensure that: - (for the main contractor) overall responsibilities and powers of the management for the compliance of the whole entire subsystem are sufficiently and properly defined, - the quality systems of each manufacturer are correctly managed for achieving integration at subsystem level, - the quality records as foreseen by the design part of the quality system, such as results of analyses, calculations, tests, etc., - the quality records as foreseen by the manufacturing part (including assembling and installation) of the quality system, such as inspection reports and test data, calibration data, qualification reports of the personnel concerned, etc. 4.4.
The manufacturer(s) and, if involved the adjudicating entity must, for a period of 10 years after the last subsystem has been manufactured, keep at the disposal of the national authorities: - the documentation referred to in the second indent of the second subparagraph of Point 3.1, - the updating referred to in the second subparagraph of Point 3.4, - the decisions and reports from the notified body which are referred to in the final subparagraph of Points 3.4, 4.4 and 4.5. 6.
The adjudicating entity or its authorised representative established within the Community must lodge an application for EC verification of the subsystem (through full quality assurance with design examination), including coordination of surveillance of the quality systems as under Points 4.4 and 4.5, with a notified body of its choice.
It must include: - the technical design specifications, including European specifications, that have been applied, - the necessary supporting evidence for their adequacy, in particular where the European specifications referred to in the TSI have not been applied in full.
The report shall contain the conclusions of the design examination, conditions for its validity, the necessary data for identification of the design examined and, if relevant, a description of the subsystem's functioning. 6.4.
The notified body responsible for the EC verification, if not carrying out the surveillance of the quality system(s) concerned as under Point 4, must coordinate the surveillance activities of any other notified body responsible for that task, in order to ensure that correct management of interfaces between the different quality systems in view of subsystem integration has been performed.
This coordination includes the right of the notified body responsible for the EC verification: - to receive all documentation (approval and surveillance), issued by the other notified body(ies), - to witness the surveillance audits as under Point 4.4, - to initiate additional audits as under Point 4.5 together with the other notified body(ies). 6.6.
The EC declaration of verification and the accompanying documents must be dated and signed.
The declaration must be written in the same language as the technical file and must contain at least the information included in Annex V of Directive 96/48/EC. 6.7.
The technical file has to include at least the information, indicated in Directive 96/48/EC, Art 18(3), and in particular as follows: - all necessary documents relating to the characteristics of the subsystem, - list of interoperability constituents incorporated into the subsystem, - copies of the EC declarations of conformity and, where appropriate, of the EC declarations of suitability for use, which said constituents must be provided in accordance with Article 13 of the Directive, accompanied, where appropriate, by the corresponding documents (certificates, quality system approval and surveillance documents) issued by the notified bodies on the basis of the TSI, - all elements relating to the conditions and limits for use, - all elements relating to the instructions concerning servicing, constant or routine monitoring, adjustment and maintenance, - certificate of EC verification of the notified body as mentioned under Point 6.6, accompanied by corresponding calculation notes and countersigned by itself, stating that the project complies with the directive and the TSI, and mentioning, where appropriate, reservations recorded during performance of the activities and not withdrawn; the certificate should also be accompanied by the inspection and audit reports drawn up in connection with the verification, as mentioned under Point 4.4 and 4.5, - the Infrastructure Register, including all indications as specified in the TSI. 7.
For the infrastructure subsystem, the project phases which are to be assessed can in general be set out as follows: - detailed design of the entire civil engineering and superstructure works, - civil works execution design phase, - civil works construction phase, - superstructure execution design phase, - superstructure construction phase, - project commissioning phase.
The adjudicating entity, or the Infrastructure Manager, shall advise the notified body of this fact, giving an indication of the probable date on which the constructional decisions for each parameter, element or constituent will be taken and will be communicated to it.
Each drawing shall include the following information: - the structure gauge, for each of tracks concerned, as it results from the choices made in response to the indications in the Infrastructure Register, and from the calculations to apply the relevant European specifications, or, pending their publication, UIC leaflets 505-4 and 506 as set out in Section 4.3.3 for the %quot%structure gauge%quot% element (4.3.3.1), which calculations shall be appended to the drawings, - the pantograph clearance gauge, as it results from the choices made in response to the indications given in the Register of Infrastructure on the subject of the electrification system and from the calculations to apply UIC leaflets 606-1, 505-1 and 505-4 as set out in Section 4.3.3 for the %quot%structure gauge%quot% element (4.3.3.1), which calculations shall be appended, - the positions of the fixed obstacles belonging to the other subsystems (energy, control-command and signalling), - the distance between track centres for each of the situations where this applies in the case of lines with more than two tracks; - lateral space: the typical cross-sections mentioned above shall include the planned lateral spaces with the dimensions of their width and distance from the nearest rail marked thereon, - accessways and intrusions: the typical cross-sections shall furthermore represent any fences planned by the adjudicating entity, or the Infrastructure Manager, according to the requirements of Section 4.3.3 (4.3.3.25), and the principle of the devices, if any, intended to limit the risks of intrusion by road vehicles.
This study shall state the vibration levels expected to arise along the infrastructures relative to the levels defined in the European specifications or the applicable regulations of the Member States, and describe the protection devices set in place to respect these levels.
Effect of crosswinds The adjudicating entity or its representative, or the Infrastructure Manager shall determine the sites where crosswind speeds in excess of the acceptable limits are to be experienced, and where adequate wind protection shall be put in place.
Civil works execution design phase This phase shall comprise the design work for all the engineering structures necessary for building the infrastructure, including earth structures, engineering structures, tunnels, and surface and underground stations.
Civil works construction phase This phase comprises the actual construction of all the structures addressed in the previous phase, complying with the specifications drawn up in that phase.
Superstructure execution design phase This phase comprises the design studies for all the assembled elements necessary for building the track: plain track, switches and crossings and expansion joints, and any other apparatus that includes interfaces with the other subsystems which have fixed elements connected to the track.
In the case where the track superstructure system is not built up from interoperability constituents as defined in Chapter 5, the file shall comprise the technical studies as per Sections 4.3.3.16, 4.3.3.17, 4.3.3.21 and 4.3.3.22 which demonstrate that the track system has the required performances in terms of resistance to vertical, transversal and longitudinal forces, and of dynamic stiffness.
This diagram shall moreover indicate the planned speed of running over the through track and the diverging track under the different track-laying systems planned to be used: layout on straight or curved track of the alignment; for each speed case planned, the cant deficiency on passing onto the diverging track shall be indicated. - a drawing of the point securement and locking means used, - a drawing of the cross-sections of the switch rail profiles showing their conformity to the specifications of Section 4.3.3.19, - a drawing of the fastening systems on plain line track sections, accompanied by the EC certificate of test of that type of fastener made according to the specifications in Section 5 for that component, - a drawing of the switch as a whole showing the functional dimensions in the switch and crossing defined in Section 4.3.3.20.
The verification of conformity, in this phase, shall address the following elements: Rails The adjudicating entity or its representative, or the Infrastructure Manager, shall send to the notified body the EC certificates for the rails received from the rail manufacturer and laid on the track, the said certificate covering the verification of the dimensions of the products supplied pursuant to the specifications in Section 5 for the component.
The data reduction and analysis report shall demonstrate compliance with the limiting values defined in the superstructure design phase.
The adjudicating entity, or its representative, or the Infrastructure Manager shall define, in connection with the State Authority concerned, the practical measures and the different phases which are necessary for allowing, in due time, the opening to service with the required performances, as described in Section 4.2.3.2.1.
The verification of conformity in this phase shall address the following elements: Pre-commissioning tests For one or more given work lots, following completion of the acceptance procedures on the corresponding construction lots, the adjudicating entity or its representative, or the Infrastructure Manager, shall have a pre-commissioning test made prior to service entry, under the conditions specified in Section 4.2.3.2.1 of this TSI, for the purpose of verification by the notified body.
Maintenance plan The adjudicating entity or its representative, or the Infrastructure Manager, shall, for the purpose of verification by the notified body, have the maintenance plan specified in Section 4.2.3.2.2 drawn up.
Line verification book The adjudicating entity or its representative, or the Infrastructure Manager, shall, for the purpose of verification by the notified body, have the final version of the verification book for the relevant line drawn up.
The EC verification of conformity of the infrastructure subsystem shall in this case, depending on the works concerned and the project phases thus defined, be carried out by applying all or part of the procedures described in D.2 above, selecting from among those procedures only those pertaining to the elements addressed by the specifications in Section 4.3.3 for the line category concerned by the upgrading works.
ANNEX E CHARACTERISTICS REQUIRED TO APPEAR IN THE INFRASTRUCTURE REGISTER The Infrastructure Register shall allow: - the Member State responsible for granting authorisation to place the subsystem into service to have at hand a document describing, for each line of the trans-European high-speed rail system, the basic parameters on which operation of that line depends, - the Infrastructure Manager to have at hand a recapitulative document describing the lines concerned so that he can follow the subsequent evolutions in the implementation of the TSI, - the railway undertakings that operate or wish to operate services on the line to be informed of the line's particular features, when the parameters or some of the interoperability specifications result from a choice made by the Infrastructure Manager.
ANNEX G GA, GB AND GC KINEMATIC GAUGES GA, GB AND GC KINEMATIC GAUGES Reference profiles %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2002245EN.023802.TIF%quot%%gt% N.B.: Up to a height of 3250 mm, the reference profile of GA, GB and GC gauges is identical.
Lines over which powered units used on international services run %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2002245EN.023901.TIF%quot%%gt% B.
Lines over which coaches, vans and wagons used on international services run (with the exception of powered units used on international services) %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2002245EN.023902.TIF%quot%%gt% Note: On inclined connections with a radius R %amp%gt;= 500 m, the vertical measurements shown in diagrams A and B above must be reduced by %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% (R in m).
lf 625 %amp%gt;= R %amp%gt;= 500 m, the measurement 80 in diagram A is cancelled.
Lines over which powered units used on international services run %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2002245EN.024001.TIF%quot%%gt% KINEMATIC GAUGE FOR THE LOWER PARTS B.
ANNEX I UNIVERSAL DYNAMIC TRAIN %gt%TABLE%gt% Schematic of the trainsets listed above: %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2002245EN.024302.TIF%quot%%gt% (1) Power car (2) End trailer with coupling (3) Intermediate trailer ANNEX K1 FLAT BOTTOM SYMMETRICAL RAILWAY RAILS 46 KG/M AND ABOVE - STEEL GRADES The seven steel grades are given in Table 1.
ANNEX N FIN1 GAUGE %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2002245EN.027702.TIF%quot%%gt% %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2002245EN.027703.TIF%quot%%gt% Marker lamps and rear mirrors. %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2002245EN.027704.TIF%quot%%gt% Increase of vehicle gauge, which is valid on specified track sections. %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2002245EN.027705.TIF%quot%%gt% Increase of vehicle gauge (A), which is valid on specified track sections. %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2002245EN.027706.TIF%quot%%gt% Increase of vehicle gauge (B).
The underclearance protrusion limit of 60 mm for structures, is subject to all the restrictions set down in standard PW4.
Bridges: (a) The vertical height of 4830 mm is a finished height.
Under certain circumstances the figure of 4830 may be reduced to 4690 mm. (b) Bridge and structure heights must be increased by the values given in Table A, where cant is involved.
There is an allowance for a 700 mm wide walkway.
Where no walkway is provided, the dimension referred to may be reduced to 1790 mm. 6.
