Undertakings subject to this Directive may engage in the activity referred to under this point only if they have received authorization for class 18 in point A of the Annex without prejudice to point C of the said Annex.
Should the undertakings in question be authorized to cover the risks listed under No 18 in point A of the Annex, Member States shall also collaborate in supervising the resources available to those undertakings for carrying out the assistance operations they have undertaken to perform, where their laws provide for supervision of such resources.%quot% Article 9 Article 16 (3) of the First Directive is hereby supplemented by the following subparagraph: %quot%In the case of the risks listed under No 18 in point A of the Annex, the amount of claims paid used to calculate the second result (claims basis) shall be the costs borne by the undertaking in respect of assistance given.
Each Member State shall require every undertaking whose head office is situated in its territory to produce an annual account, covering all types of operation, of its financial situation, solvency and, as regards cover for risks listed under No 18 in point A of the Annex, other resources available to them for meeting their liabilities, where its laws provide for supervision of such resources. 2.
Member States shall require undertakings operating in their territory to render periodically the returns, together with statistical documents, which are necessary for the purposes of supervision and, as regards cover for risks listed under No 18 in point A of the Annex, to indicate the resources available to them for meeting their liabilities, where their laws provide for supervision of such resources.
The competent supervisory authorities shall furnish each other with the documents and information necessary for exercising supervision.%quot% Article 12 Article 26 of the First Directive is hereby replaced by the following: %quot%Article 26 1.
If a Member State makes use of this possibility it shall, for the purposes of applying these arrangements, treat such activity as if it were listed in class 18 in point A of the Annex to the First Directive without prejudice to point C thereof.
Transitional provisions Article 16 1.
Member States may allow undertakings which, on the date of notification of this Directive, provide only assistance in their territories, a period of five years from that date in order to comply with the requirements set out in Articles 16 and 17 of the First Directive. 2.
Article 17 Member States may allow agencies and branches referred to in Title III of the First Directive which provide only assistance in the territories of those Member States a maximum period of five years commencing on the date of notification of this Directive in order to comply with Article 25 of the First Directive, provided such agencies or branches do not extend their business within the meaning of Article 10 (2) of the First Directive.
Final provisions Article 19 1.
Article 21 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
