TITLE I Sales at prices fixed in advance Article 2 1.
TITLE II Sale at a price determined by an invitation to tender Article 6 1.
Article 7 Each invitation to tender shall include the following information: (a) description of the products and the date before which they were bought in; (b) the name and address of the cold store or stores where the products are held; (c) for each cold store, the quantities of each product offered for tender; (d) the closing date and the address for the submission of tenders; (e) where appropriate, a statement that tenders may be submitted by telex.
Article 9 In the light of the tenders received, minimum selling prices shall be fixed for the products in question in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 27 of Regulation (EEC) No 805/68.
Article 11 Each tenderer shall be notified by the intervention agency concerned of the result of his participation in the invitation to tender.
Article 12 The exchange rate used to convert - tenders into ECU, and - minimum sale prices into national currency, shall be the representative rate in force on the closing day for the submission of tenders.
TITLE III General provisions Article 13 Intervention agencies shall make all necessary arrangements to enable prospective tenderers to inspect the products for sale before making their applications or submitting their tenders.
Article 14 The application or tender shall be in one of the official languages of the Community.
Except in cases of force majeure the security shall be forfeit: (a) in proportion to the quantity not paid for within the specified time limit, if the quantity paid for is not less than 60 % and not more than 95 % of the quantity covered by the contract; (b) in total, if the quantity paid for is less than 60 % of the quantity covered by the contract. 3.
Article 19 The price shall be paid, as and when the goods are taken over and in proportion to the quantities to be withdrawn, at the latest the day before each removal.
Article 20 Member States shall inform the Commission at the beginning of every fortnight of the quantities sold during the previous fortnight.
