If, in order to vote or to stand as candidates, nationals of the Member State of residence must have spent a certain minimum period as a resident in the territory of that State, voters and persons entitled to stand as candidates within the scope of Article 3 shall be deemed to have fulfilled that condition where they have resided for an equivalent period in other Member States. 2.
If, under the laws of the Member State of residence, its own nationals may vote or stand as candidates only in the basic local government unit in which they have their principal residence, voters and persons entitled to stand as candidates within the scope of Article 3 shall also be subject to this condition. 3.
Persons entitled to stand as candidates within the scope of Article 3 shall be subject to the same conditions concerning incompatibility as apply, under the laws of the Member State of residence, to nationals of that State. 2.
CHAPTER II Exercise of the right to vote and the right to stand as a candidate Article 7 1.
A voter within the scope of Article 3 shall exercise his right to vote in municipal elections in the Member State of residence if he has expressed the wish to do so. 2.
If voting is compulsory in the Member State of residence, voters within the scope of Article 3 who have been entered on the electoral roll there shall also be obliged to vote. 3.
Member States shall take the necessary measures to enable a voter within the scope of Article 3 to be entered on the electoral roll sufficiently in advance of polling day. 2.
In order to have his name entered on the electoral roll, a voter within the scope of Article 3 shall produce the same documents as a voter who is a national.
The Member State of residence may also require a voter within the scope of Article 3 to produce a valid identity document, along with a formal declaration stating his nationality, and his address in the Member State of residence. 3.
Voters within the scope of Article 3 who have been entered on an electoral roll in the Member State of residence shall remain thereon, under the same conditions as voters who are nationals, until such time as they are removed automatically because they no longer satisfy the requirements for exercising the right to vote.
Article 11 The Member State of residence shall inform voters and persons entitled to stand as candidates within the scope of Article 3 in good time and in an appropriate manner of the conditions and detailed arrangements for the exercise of the right to vote and to stand as a candidate in elections in that State.
CHAPTER III Derogations and transitional provisions Article 12 1.
By 31 December 1998 and every six years thereafter, the Commission shall submit to the European Parliament and to the Council a report in which it shall check whether the grant to the Member States concerned of a derogation pursuant to Article 8b (1) of the Treaty is still warranted and shall propose that any necessary adjustments be made.
CHAPTER IV Final provisions Article 13 The Commission shall submit a report to the European Parliament and the Council on the application of this Directive, including any changes in the electorate which have taken place since its entry into force, within a year of the holding in all the Member States of the municipal elections organized on the basis of the above provisions, and shall, where appropriate, propose appropriate adjustments.
Article 15 This Directive shall enter into force on the 20th day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Article 16 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 19 December 1994.
KINKEL (1) OJ No C 323, 21. 11. 1994. (2) Opinion delivered on 14 September 1994 (not yet published in the Official Journal). (3) Opinion delivered on 28 September 1994 (not yet published in the Official Journal).
Ortschaften, in Greece: êïéíüôçò; äÞìïò; in Spain: municipio, entidad de ámbito territorial inferior al municipal, in France: commune, arrondissement dans les villes déterminées par la législation interne, section de commune in Ireland: country, county borough borough, urban district, town, in Italy: comune, circoscrizione, in Luxembourg: commune, in the Netherlands: gemeente, deelgemeente in Portugal: município, freguesia, in the United Kingdom: counties in England; counties, county boroughs and communities in Wales: regions and Islands in Scotland; districts in England, Scotland and Northern Ireland; London boroughs; parishes in England; the City of London in relation to ward elections for common councilmen.
Statement in the minutes by the Council and the Commission re Article 3 Article 3 does not rule out the possibility for a Member State of ensuring in a non-discriminatory manner that a voter within the scope of Article 3 is not deprived of the right to vote in a Member State other than the Member State of residence if that same condition applies to its own nationals.
Statement in the minutes by the Luxembourg delegation on the Council and Commission statement re Article 3 The Luxembourg authorities interpret the word 'ensuring` as tantamount to a statement on his honour made by a voter within the scope of Article 3 when he is entered on the electoral roll.
