Commission Regulation (EC) No 2700/98 of 17 December 1998 concerning the definitions of characteristics for structural business statistics (Text with EEA relevance) COMMISSION REGULATION (EC) No 2700/98 of 17 December 1998 concerning the definitions of characteristics for structural business statistics (Text with EEA relevance) THE COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, Having regard to Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 58/97 of 20 December 1996 concerning structural business statistics (1) and in particular Article 12(iii) thereof, Whereas Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 58/97 established a common framework for the production of Community statistics on the structure, activity, competitiveness and performance of businesses in the Community; Whereas it is necessary to implement a set of definitions for the structural business statistics characteristics; Whereas the envisaged measures are in accordance with the opinion of the Statistical Programme Committee, HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: Article 1 1.
The characteristics referred to in Article 4 of Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 58/97 are defined in the Annex to this Regulation. 2.
In these definitions, references to company accounts use the headings laid down in Article 9 (balance sheet), Article 23 (profit and loss account) or Article 43 (notes on the accounts) of the Council Directive 78/660/EEC (2).
Member States shall apply these definitions for the data concerning the 1999 reference year and subsequent years. 2.
Member States shall also apply these definitions for data concerning the 1995, 1996, 1997 and 1998 reference years where this corresponds to existing national practices.
Article 3 This Regulation shall enter into force on the 20th day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Done at Brussels, 17 December 1998.
For the Commission Yves-Thibault de SILGUY Member of the Commission (1) OJ L 14, 17.1.1997, p. 1. (2) OJ L 222, 14.8.1978, p. 11.
This statistic should include all units active for at least a part of the reference period. %gt%TABLE%gt% Definition A count of the number of kind-of-activity units registered to the population concerned in the business register corrected for errors, in particular frame errors, or an estimate if this type of unit is not registered.
This statistic should include all units active for at least a part of the reference period. %gt%TABLE%gt% Definition Turnover comprises the totals invoiced by the observation unit during the reference period, and this corresponds to market sales of goods or services supplied to third parties.
It also includes all other charges (transport, packaging, etc.) passed on to the customer, even if these charges are listed separately in the invoice.
Included here are taxes and duties on imports and taxes on the production, export, sale, transfer, leasing or delivery of goods and services or as a result of their use for own consumption or own capital formation. (iii) The third group concerns taxes and duties linked to production.
The latter includes the production of fixed tangible assets (buildings etc.) as well as intangible assets (development of software etc.).
Link to company accounts The components of production value are included in the following accounting headings: - net turnover, - part of other operating income - excluding subsidies, - Variation in stocks of finished goods and work in progress, part of raw materials and consumables relating to purchases and change in stocks of goods for resale, - work performed by the undertaking for its own purposes and capitalised.
Link to other variables Production value is based on: Turnover (12 11 0), +/- Change in stocks of finished products and work in progress manufactured by the unit (13 21 3), +/- Change in stocks of goods and services purchased for resale in the same condition as received (13 21 1), - Purchases of goods and services purchased for resale in the same condition as received (13 12 0), + Capitalised production, + Other operating income (excluding subsidies). - Production value is used in the calculation of value-added at factor cost (12 15 0) and other aggregates and balances. %gt%TABLE%gt% Definition Corresponds to the return on the activity of purchase and resale without further processing.
Link to other variables Gross margin on goods for resale is based on: Turnover from trading activities of purchase and resale (18 13 0), - Purchases of goods and services purchased for resale in the same condition as received (13 12 0), +/- Changes in stocks of goods and services purchased for resale in the same condition as received (13 21 1), - Gross margin on goods for resale is a part of Production value (12 12 0). %gt%TABLE%gt% Definition Value-added at basic prices is calculated from the production value plus subsidies on products less the purchases of goods and services (other than those purchased for resale in the same condition) plus or minus the change in stocks of raw materials and consumables less other taxes on products which are linked to turnover but not deductible.
Included here are taxes and duties on imports and taxes on the production, export, sale, transfer, leasing or delivery of goods and services or as a result of their use for own consumption or own capital formation. (iii) The third group concerns taxes and duties linked to production.
Link to other variables Value at basic prices is based on: Turnover (12 11 0), - Total purchases of goods and services (13 11 0), +/- Change in stocks of goods and services (13 21 0), + Capitalised production, + Other operating income (excluding subsidies linked to production), - Other taxes on products which are linked to turnover but not deductible. %gt%TABLE%gt% Definition Value-added at factor cost is the gross income from operating activities after adjusting for operating subsidies and indirect taxes.
It can be calculated from turnover, plus capitalised production, plus other operating income, plus or minus the changes in stocks, minus the purchases of goods and services, minus other taxes on products which are linked to turnover but not deductible, minus the duties and taxes linked to production.
Income and expenditure classified as financial or extraordinary in company accounts is excluded from value-added.
Specific calculation methods are needed for NACE Rev. 1 classes 66.01 and 66.03 Link to company accounts Value-added at factor costs can be calculated directly from the following accounting headings: - Net turnover, - Variation in stocks of finished goods and work in progress, - Work performed by the undertaking for its own purposes and capitalised, - Raw materials and consumables, - Other external charges, - Other operating charges, - Other operating income.
Link to other variables Value-added at factor cost is based on: Turnover (12 11 0), +/- Change in stocks of goods and services (13 12 0), + Capitalised production, + Other operating income, - Purchases of goods and services (13 11 0), - Other taxes on products which are linked to turnover but not deductible, - Duties and taxes linked to production, - Value-added at factor cost is used in the calculation of gross operating surplus (12 17 0) and other aggregates and balances. %gt%TABLE%gt% Definition Gross operating surplus is the surplus generated by operating activities after the labour factor input has been recompensed.
Income and expenditure classified as financial or extraordinary in company accounts is excluded from gross operating surplus.
Link to company accounts Gross operating surplus can be calculated from the following accounting headings: - Net turnover, - Variation in stocks of finished goods and work in progress, - Work performed by the undertaking for its own purposes and capitalised, - Raw materials and consumables, - Other external charges, - Other operating charges, - Other operating income, - Staff costs.
Included in this variable are the purchases of materials made for the production of capital goods by the unit.
Purchases of goods and services are valued at the purchase price excluding deductible VAT and other deductible taxes linked directly to turnover.
Link to other variables Total purchases of goods and services is used in the calculation of value-added at factor cost (12 15 0) and other aggregates and balances.
Many items included within total purchases of goods and services are identified separately - Purchases of goods and services purchased for resale in the same condition as received (13 12 0), - Operating costs linked to buildings and equipment (13 41 0), Cost of selling (13 42 0), Other operating costs (13 43 0).
Note that these three variables, when combined with variable 13 12 0 above are an exhaustive breakdown of total purchases of goods and services for enterprises in wholesale and retail trade, - Payments for agency workers (13 13 1), - Payments for long-term rental and operational leasing of goods (13 41 1), - Purchases of energy products (20 11 0 and 20 21 0 to 20 31 0), - Percentage share of purchases from wholesalers and purchasing groups (25 21 1) and Percentage share of purchases from producers (25 21 2). %gt%TABLE%gt% Definition Purchases for resale are purchases of goods for resale to third parties without further processing.
Purchases of goods and services purchased for resale in the same condition as received are valued at the purchase price excluding deductible VAT and other deductible taxes linked directly to turnover.
Link to company accounts Purchases of goods and services purchased for resale in the same condition as received may not be isolated in company accounts.
Link to other variables Part of Total purchases of goods and services (13 11 0) Purchases of goods and services purchased for resale in the same condition as received is used in the calculation of Gross margin on goods for resale (12 13 0), in Production value (12 12 0) and other aggregates and balances. %gt%TABLE%gt% Definition Included in this figure are payments to employment agencies and similar organisations for the provision of personnel.
Link to company accounts Payments for agency workers may not be isolated in company accounts.
Link to company accounts Part of Total purchases of goods and services (13 11 0). %gt%TABLE%gt% Definition Change in stocks (positive or negative) is the difference between the value of the stocks at the end and the beginning of the reference period.
These products include work in progress belonging to the unit, even if the products in question are in the possession of third parties.
They are part of raw materials and consumables, other external charges and other operating charges.
Link to other variables - Change in stocks of goods purchased for resale in the same condition is used in the calculation of gross margin on goods for resale (12 13 0), Production value (12 12 0) and other aggregates and balances, - Part of Change in stocks of goods and services (13 21 0). %gt%TABLE%gt% Definition This variable is defined as the change in the value of the stocks of finished products or in the course of production, which have been produced by the unit and which have not yet been sold, between the first and last days of the reference period.
These products include work in progress belonging to the unit, even if the products in question are in the possession of third parties.
Link to other variables - Change in stocks of finished goods and work in progress is used in the calculation of Production value (12 12 0) and other aggregates and balances, - Part of Change in stocks of goods and services (13 21 0). %gt%TABLE%gt% Definition Personnel costs are defined as the total remuneration, in cash or in kind, payable by an employer to an employee (regular and temporary employees as well as home-workers) in return for work done by the latter during the reference period.
Personnel costs also include taxes and employees' social security contributions retained by the unit as well as the employer's compulsory and voluntary social contributions.
Personnel costs are made up of: - wages and salaries, - employers' social security costs.
Wages and salaries include the values of any social contributions, income taxes, etc.
Link to other variables Wages and salaries is used in the calculation of Personnel costs (13 31 0). %gt%TABLE%gt% Definition Employers' social security costs correspond to an amount equal to the value of the social contributions incurred by employers in order to secure for their employees the entitlement to social benefits.
Included are the costs for all employees including homeworkers and apprentices.
Link to company accounts Operating costs linked to buildings and equipment may not be isolated in company accounts.
It is a part of Raw materials and consumables, other external charges and other operating charges.
Link to other variables Part of Total purchases of goods and services (13 11 0).
For distributive trade activities (Section G of NACE Rev. 1), the other parts of total purchases of goods and services are: Purchases of goods and services purchased for resale in the same condition as received (13 12 0), Cost of selling (13 42 0) and Other operating costs (13 43 0). %gt%TABLE%gt% Definition The payments for long-term rental include all charges relative to the renting of tangible goods for a period greater than one year.
Link to company accounts Payments for long-term rental and operational leasing of goods may not be isolated in company accounts.
It is part of other external charges and other operating charges.
It is a part of Raw materials and consumables, other external charges and other operating charges.
Link to other variables Part of Total purchases of goods and services (13 11 0).
For distributive trade activities (Section G of NACE Rev. 1), the other parts of total purchases of goods and services are: Purchases of goods and services purchased for resale in the same condition as received (13 12 0), Operating costs linked to buildings and equipment (13 41 0) and Other operating costs (13 43 0). %gt%TABLE%gt% Definition Other operating costs may for example consist of expenses for bookkeeping, consultancy, office stationery, recruitment, insurance premiums, costs of collective staff transport, cost of bank services (excluding interest payments), postal and telecommunication expenses (telephone, telex).
It is a part of Raw materials and consumables, other external charges and other operating charges.
Link to other variables Part of Total purchases of goods and services (13 11 0).
In practice this may not be possible and company accounting conventions may mean that the following approximations to this method need to be used: (i) investments are recorded in the reference period in which they are delivered, (ii) investments are recorded in the reference period in which they enter into the production process, (iii) investments are recorded in the reference period in which they are invoiced, (iv) investments are recorded in the reference period in which they are paid for.
However, the additions, disposals and transfers of all fixed assets as well as the value adjustments of these fixed assets are shown in the balance sheet or the notes to the accounts.
Link to other variables Gross investment in tangible goods is based on: Gross investment in land (15 12 0), + Gross investment in existing buildings and structures (15 13 0), + Gross investment in construction and alteration of buildings (15 14 0), + Gross investment in machinery and equipment (15 15 0). %gt%TABLE%gt% Definition Included under this variable, in addition to land, are underground deposits, forests and inland waters.
However, the additions, disposals and transfers of all fixed assets as well as the value adjustments of these fixed assets are shown in the balance sheet or the notes to the accounts.
Part of payments on account and tangible assets in course of construction should be included in so far as they relate to land.
Link to other variables Part of Gross investment in tangible goods (15 11 0). %gt%TABLE%gt% Definition The investment includes the cost of the existing buildings and structures which have been acquired during the reference period.
However, the additions, disposals and transfers of all fixed assets as well as the value adjustments of these fixed assets are shown in the balance sheet or the notes to the accounts.
Part of payments on account and tangible assets in course of construction should be included in so far as they relate to existing buildings and structures.
However, the additions, disposals and transfers of all fixed assets as well as the value adjustments of these fixed assets are shown in the balance sheet or the notes to the accounts.
However, the additions, disposals and transfers of all fixed assets as well as the value adjustments of these fixed assets are shown in the balance sheet or the notes to the accounts.
Gross investment in machinery and equipment is included in the list of tangible assets included in company accounts under Fixed assets - tangible assets - plant and machinery and other fixtures and fittings, tools and equipment.
Part of payments on account and tangible assets in course of construction should be included in so far as they relate to machinery and equipment.
Link to other variables Part of Gross investment in tangible goods (15 11 0) %gt%TABLE%gt% Definition Sales of tangible goods includes the value of existing tangible capital goods, sold to third parties.
Tangible investment goods refers to assets listed in company accounts under Fixed assets - tangible assets. %gt%TABLE%gt% Definition Under a financial lease the lessee acquires the right to use a durable good in exchange for rental payments over a predetermined and protracted term.
The number of persons employed excludes manpower supplied to the unit by other enterprises, persons carrying out repair and maintenance work in the enquiry unit on behalf of other enterprises, as well as those on compulsory military service.
In particular the following are considered as employees: - paid working proprietors, - students who have a formal commitment whereby they contribute to the unit's process of production in return for remuneration and/or education services, - employees engaged under a contract specifically designed to encourage the recruitment of unemployed persons, - homeworkers if there is an explicit agreement that the homeworker is remunerated on the basis of the work done and they are included on the payroll.
It should be noted that whereas the 'full-time employee` category is relatively homogeneous, the same cannot be said of the 'part-time employee` category since this can cover anything between 20 % or even less and 80 % or more of the normal working hours of the employing unit.
Link to other variables Part of Number of employees (16 13 0) %gt%TABLE%gt% Definition All employees who do not participate fully in the production process of the unit because they are working under an apprentice's contract or because the fact that they are undertaking vocational training impinges significantly on their productivity are included in this variable.
Link to other variables Part of Number of employees (16 13 0) %gt%TABLE%gt% Definition Homeworkers are a sub-division of persons employed of the observation unit who carry out their professional activity from their own home.
Link to other variables Part of Number of employees (16 13 0) %gt%TABLE%gt% Definition The number of employees converted into full-time equivalents (FTE).
Included in this category are people working less than a standard working day, less than the standard number of working days in the week, or less than the standard number of weeks/months in the year.
Link to other variables The Number of hours worked by employees (16 15 0) or the Number of part-time employees (16 13 1) may be used in the conversion of the Number of employees (16 13 0) into full-time equivalents. %gt%TABLE%gt% Definition The total number of hours worked by employees represents the aggregate number of hours actually worked for the output of the observation unit during the reference period.
If the exact number of hours actually worked is not known, it may be estimated on the basis of the theoretical number of working hours and the average rate of absences (sickness, maternity, etc.).
Link to other variables The number of hours worked by employees may be used in the conversion of the Number of employees (16 13 0) into the Number of employees in full-time equivalent units (16 14 0). %gt%TABLE%gt% Definition This is the total number of retail stores operated by the enterprise, either owned or rented.
Retail stores are to be classified within the groups 52.1-52.5 of NACE Rev. 1.
Link to other variables Part of Number of local units (11 21 0) %gt%TABLE%gt% Definition In addition to the total number of retail stores a breakdown by class of sales space is added.
Fixed market stands/stalls are to be classified as part of class 52.62 of NACE Rev. 1. %gt%TABLE%gt% Definition The part of turnover derived from activities classified to Sections A to F of NACE Rev. 1.
Link to other variables Part of turnover (12 11 0) %gt%TABLE%gt% Definition The part of turnover derived from the principal activity of the unit.
The principal activity of a unit is determined according to the rules laid down in the Council Regulation on statistical units No 696/93 of 15 March 1993 on the statistical units for the observation and analysis of the production system in the Community (1).
Link to other variables Part of turnover (12 11 0) %gt%TABLE%gt% Definition The part of turnover derived from activities classified to Sections C to F of NACE Rev. 1.
Link to other variables Part of turnover (12 11 0) Part of turnover from agriculture, forestry, fishing and industrial activities (18 10 0) %gt%TABLE%gt% Definition The part of turnover derived from activities classified to Sections C to E of NACE Rev. 1.
These activities are classified in section G of NACE Rev. 1 (except the maintenance, repair and fee or contract based wholesaling groups 50.2, 50.4, 51.1 and 52.7).
Link to other variables Part of turnover (12 11 0) %gt%TABLE%gt% Definition The part of turnover derived from the intermediary activity of the unit.
These activities are classified in group 51.1 of NACE Rev. 1.
Link to other variables Part of turnover (12 11 0) %gt%TABLE%gt% Definition The part of turnover derived from the trading activities of purchase and resale of the unit and the intermediary activity of the unit.
This corresponds to the sales of goods purchased by the unit in its own name and for its own account and resold in the same condition in which they were purchased, or after such labelling, packaging and wrapping as is usually practised in distributive trade enterprises as well as any commissions on purchases and sales made in the name and on behalf of third parties, and similar activities.
These activities are classified in Section G of NACE Rev. 1 (except the maintenance and repair groups 50.2, 50.4 and 52.7).
Link to other variables Part of turnover (12 11 0) %gt%TABLE%gt% Definition The part of turnover derived from activities classified to Section F of NACE Rev. 1 and relating to constructions classified as buildings in the classification of types of constructions (CC).
Link to other variables Part of purchases of energy products (20 11 0) %gt%TABLE%gt% Definition Investment expenditure resulting from actions and activities which have as their prime objective the prevention, reduction and elimination of pollution and any other degradation of the environment.
This restriction applies in most cases to recycling activities classified under NACE 37.00 (recycling).
However, the additions, disposals and transfers of all fixed assets as well as the value adjustments of these fixed assets are shown in the balance sheet or the notes to the accounts.
Investment in equipment and plant for pollution control and special anti-pollution accessories is included, but not isolated in the list of tangible assets included in company accounts under fixed assets - tangible assets.
Link to other variables Part of gross investment in tangible goods (15 11 0). %gt%TABLE%gt% Definition Research and experimental development comprise creative work undertaken on a systematic basis in order to increase the stock of knowledge, including knowledge of man, culture and society, and the use of this stock of knowledge to devise new applications.
Intra-mural expenditures are valued at production cost and include all operating costs including the labour cost and capital expenditure.
Link to other variables Part of the number of persons employed (16 11 0) %gt%TABLE%gt% Definition (for industry - Sections C to E of NACE Rev. 1) Payments to subcontractors are payments made by the unit to third parties in return for industrial goods and services supplied as part of a subcontracting relationship defined as follows: Two enterprises are linked by a subcontracting relationship whenever conditions A and B are met together: A.
They may be included in other external charges and other operating costs.
Link to other variables Part of total purchases of goods and services (13 11 0). %gt%TABLE%gt% Definition The share of wholesale enterprises' turnover (Division 51 of NACE Rev. 1) accounted for by retail traders.
Note that the share of turnover shall be calculated on the basis of turnover from trading activities of purchase and resale (18 13 0).
Link to other variables Part of turnover (12 11 0) Part of turnover from trading a activities of purchase and resale (18 13 0) Note: This variable forms together with (25 11 1), retail traders and (25 11 3) final consumers an exhaustive breakdown of turnover from trading activities of purchase and resale (18 13 0). %gt%TABLE%gt% Definition The share of wholesale enterprises' turnover (Division 51 of NACE Rev. 1) accounted for by final consumers.
Note that the share of turnover shall be calculated on the basis of turnover from trading activities of purchase and resale (18 13 0).
Link to other variables Part of turnover (12 11 0) Part of turnover from trading activities of purchase and resale (18 13 0) Note: This variable forms together with (25 11 1), retail traders and (25 11 2) professional users an exhaustive breakdown of turnover from trading activities of purchase and resale (18 13 0). %gt%TABLE%gt% Definition This characteristic, as well as describing the supply network of retail trade, is an approximation made by the retailer to assess the share of direct purchases from wholesalers and through purchasing groups.
Link to other variables Part of total purchases of goods and services (13 11 0).
Part of purchases of goods and services purchased for resale in the same condition as received (13 12 0).
Link to other variables Part of total purchases of goods and services (13 11 0).
Part of purchases of goods and services purchased for resale in the same condition as received (13 12 0).
