Although foot-and-mouth disease has no public health importance, due to its exceptional economic importance, it is on the top of list A diseases of the Office International des Epizooties (OIE). (3) Foot-and-mouth disease is a compulsorily notifiable disease and outbreaks must be notified by the Member State affected to the Commission and other Member States, in accordance with Council Directive 82/894/EEC of 21 December 1982, on the notification of animal diseases within the Community(5). (4) The Community measures for the control of foot-and-mouth disease are laid down in Council Directive 85/511/EEC of 18 November 1985 introducing Community measures for the control of foot-and-mouth disease(6).
The Member States should ensure that this legislation is implemented in its entirety and make enough personnel and resources available to provide strict controls on the external borders. (8) In addition, the European Parliament's Temporary Committee on Foot-and-Mouth Disease found that, in practice, border inspections are failing to prevent significant quantities of meat and meat products from entering the Community illegally. (9) Under the conditions of the single market and the overall satisfactory health status of livestock herds, the exchange of animals and animal products has increased substantially and certain regions of the Community have densely populated livestock areas. (10) The foot-and-mouth disease epidemic in certain Member States in 2001 demonstrated that due to intensive movement of and trade in animals susceptible to foot-and-mouth disease, an outbreak can quickly take on epizootic proportions, causing disturbances on a scale liable to reduce sharply the profitability of farming of animals of susceptible species and other parts of the rural economy and also requiring substantial financial resources to compensate farmers and the application of control measures. (11) During the 2001 foot-and-mouth disease crisis, the Commission reinforced the Community control measures for foot-and-mouth disease laid down in Directive 85/511/EEC by adopting protective measures in accordance with Council Directive 90/425/EEC of 26 June 1990 concerning veterinary and zootechnical checks applicable in intra-Community trade in certain live animals and products with a view to the completion of the internal market(10), and Council Directive 89/662/EEC of 11 December 1989 concerning veterinary checks in intra-Community trade with a view to the completion of the internal market(11). (12) In 2001, the Commission also adopted Decisions on the conditions for the use of emergency vaccination in accordance with Directive 85/511/EEC.
Those conditions were laid down taking account of the recommendations contained in the report of the Scientific Committee on Animal Health and Animal Welfare on the strategy for emergency vaccination against foot-and-mouth disease of 1999. (13) This Directive should take into account the report of expert groups from Member States on a review of Community legislation on foot-and-mouth disease of 1998, which reflects the experience gained by Member States during the classical swine fever epidemic in 1997, and the conclusions of the International Conference on the Prevention and Control of Foot-and-Mouth Disease held in Brussels in December 2001. (14) The Resolution of 17 December 2002 of the European Parliament on the foot-and-mouth disease epidemic in 2001 in the European Union(12), based on the conclusions of the Temporary Committee on Foot-and-Mouth Disease of the European Parliament should be taken into account in this Directive. (15) The recommendations in the Report of the Thirtieth Session of the European Commission for the Control of Foot-and-Mouth Disease of the Food and Agriculture Organisation on minimum standards for laboratories working with foot-and-mouth virus in vitro and in vivo of 1993, should be taken into account. (16) This Directive should also take into account the changes made in the Animal Health Code and the Manual of Standards for Diagnostic Tests and Vaccines of the OIE (OIE Manual). (17) In order to ensure early detection of any possible outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease, legal provisions are necessary to oblige those in contact with animals of susceptible species to notify any suspect case to the competent authorities.
Where possible the processing of the carcasses of dead or killed animals should be carried out in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 1774/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 October 2002 laying down health rules concerning animal by-products not intended for human consumption(16). (22) It is necessary to integrate public health and environment protection aspects in the event of a foot-and-mouth disease outbreak, in particular by establishing close cooperation between the veterinary health and environment competent authorities.
Unnecessary risks from burning animal carcasses on pyres or burying them at mass burial sites should be avoided. (23) It is necessary to prevent any spread of the disease as soon as an outbreak occurs by carefully monitoring movements of animals and the use of products liable to be contaminated, and where appropriate, in particular in densely populated livestock areas, by emergency vaccination. (24) The action taken to control the foot-and-mouth diesease epidemics which struck certain Member States in 2001 has shown that international and Community rules and the ensuing practices have not taken sufficient account of the possibility offered by the use of emergency vaccination and subsequent tests to detect infected animals in a vaccinated population.
The use of disinfectants should be in compliance with Directive 98/8/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 1998 concerning the placing of biocidal products on the market(18). (28) Semen, ova and embryos collected from animals of susceptible species infected with the foot-and-mouth disease virus may contribute to the spread of the disease and should therefore be subject to restrictions in addition to those animal health conditions laid down for intra-Community trade in the following Directives: - Council Directive 88/407/EEC of 14 June 1988 laying down the animal health requirements applicable to intra-Community trade in and imports of deep-frozen semen of domestic animals of the bovine species(19); - Council Directive 89/556/EEC of 25 September 1989 on animal health conditions governing intra-Community trade in and importations from third countries of embryos of domestic animals of the bovine species(20); - Council Directive 92/65/EEC of 13 July 1992 laying down animal health requirements governing trade in and imports into the Community of animals, semen, ova and embryos not subject to animal health requirements laid down in specific Community rules referred to in Annex A (I) to Directive 90/425/EEC(21). (29) In the event of an outbreak it may be necessary to apply control measures not only to infected animals of susceptible species, but also to contaminated animals of species not susceptible to the disease which may be mechanical vectors for the virus.
In order to ease reference, the treatment of meat and meat products from animals of susceptible species, required to ensure the destruction of possible foot-and-mouth disease virus, is specified in the Annexes VII to IX of this Directive which are based on those Directives and comply with recommendations of the OIE. (32) The animal health rules governing the production, processing, distribution and introduction of products of animal origin for human consumption are laid down in Council Directive 2002/99/EC of 16 December 2002(29). (33) Council Directive 92/46/EEC of 16 June 1992 laying down the health rules for the production and placing on the market of raw milk, heat-treated milk and milk-based products(30) provides for the treatment of milk from animals kept within the perimeters of surveillance zones established in accordance with Community control measures for foot-and-mouth disease.
In addition, the treatment for milk for human consumption provided for in that Directive exceeds the requirements of the code of the OIE on destruction of foot-and-mouth disease virus in milk and results in logistic problems in the disposal of substantial quantities of milk refused by dairy plants.
More detailed provisions on the collection and transport of milk from animals of susceptible species in areas subject to control measures for foot-and-mouth disease should be included in this Directive.
Directive 92/46/EEC should therefore be amended accordingly. (34) With regard to products of animal origin account should be taken of Council Directive 92/118/EEC of 17 December 1992 laying down animal health and public health requirements governing trade in and imports into the Community of products not subject to the said requirements laid down in specific Community rules referred to in Annex A (I) to Directive 89/662/EEC and, as regards pathogens, to Directive 90/425/EEC(31).
Certain provisions of Directive 92/118/EEC have been included in Regulation (EC) No 1774/2002. (35) The application of the principle of regionalisation should allow the implementation of strict control measures, including emergency vaccination, in a defined part of the Community without endangering general Community interests.
Dairy and meat products from vaccinated animals may be placed on the market in accordance with the relevant Community legislation and this Directive in particular. (36) Directive 64/432/EEC provides for the definition of regions.
Commission Decision 2000/807/EC of 11 December 2000 laying down the codified form and the codes for the notification of animal diseases pursuant to Council Directive 82/894/EEC(32) specifies administrative areas in Member States related to disease control measures and disease notification. (37) To guard against emergencies, the Community has, in accordance with Council Decision 91/666/EEC of 11 December 1991 establishing Community reserves of foot-and-mouth disease vaccines(33), established reserves of inactivated foot-and-mouth disease virus antigen stored at designated premises, and the Community antigen and vaccine bank.
However, such provisions should apply without prejudice to agreements concluded between the third country concerned and the Community on access to the Community antigen and vaccine bank. (43) Council Decision 90/424/EEC of 26 June 1990 on expenditure in the veterinary field(36), applies in the event of the occurrence of foot-and-mouth disease and provides for Community aid to be granted to reference laboratories and antigen and vaccine banks.
Member States shall ensure that: (a) foot-and-mouth disease is listed by the competent authority as a compulsorily notifiable disease; (b) the owner and any person attending animals, accompanying animals during transport or looking after animals shall be obliged to notify without delay to the competent authority or the official veterinarian the presence or suspected presence of foot-and-mouth disease and keep animals infected with foot-and-mouth disease or animals suspected of being infected, away from places where other animals of susceptible species are at risk of being infected or contaminated with the foot-and-mouth disease virus; (c) veterinary practitioners, official veterinarians, senior staff of veterinary or other official or private laboratories and any person with a occupational relation to animals of susceptible species or products derived from such animals shall be obliged to notify without delay to the competent authority any knowledge of the presence or suspected presence of foot-and-mouth disease they have obtained prior to official intervention within the framework of this Directive. 2.
Without prejudice to existing Community legislation on notification of outbreaks of animal disease, the Member State on whose territory an outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease or a primary case of foot-and-mouth disease in wild animals is confirmed shall give notification of the disease and provide information and written reports to the Commission and the other Member States in accordance with Annex II.
By way of derogation from the prohibition in point (a) of paragraph 1, the competent authority may in the event of difficulties in storing the milk on the holding either order that the milk shall be destroyed on the holding, or authorise the milk to be transported under veterinary supervision and only by means of transport suitably equipped to ensure no risk of spreading foot-and-mouth disease virus from the holding to the nearest possible place for disposal or treatment ensuring destruction of the foot-and-mouth disease virus. 3.
By way of derogation from the prohibitions provided for in points (b), (c) and (d) of paragraph 1, the competent authority may authorise such movements onto and off the holding subject to all conditions necessary in order to avoid the spread of foot-and-mouth disease virus.
Article 6 Extension of measures to other holdings 1.
The competent authority shall apply at least the measures provided for in Articles 4 and 5(1) to premises or means of transport referred to in Article 16 should the presence of animals of susceptible species give reason to suspect infection or contamination with the foot-and-mouth disease virus.
Article 7 Temporary control zone 1.
The competent authority may establish a temporary control zone, where required by the epidemiological-situation, and in particular when that situation involves a high density of animals of susceptible species, intensive movement of animals or persons in contact with animals of susceptible species, delays in suspect status notifications, or insufficient information on the possible origin and ways of introduction of the foot-and-mouth disease virus. 2.
At least the measures provided for in Article 4(2) and (3)(a), (b) and (d) and in Article 5(1) shall be applied to holdings in the temporary control zone where animals of susceptible species are kept. 3.
Article 8 Preventive eradication programme 1.
In that event, the taking of samples and clinical examinations of animals of susceptible species shall be carried out at least in accordance with point 2.1.1.1 of Annex III. 3.
Article 9 Maintenance of measures Member States shall not withdraw the measures provided for in Articles 4 to 7 until the suspicion of foot-and-mouth disease has been officially ruled out.
Article 11 Cleansing and disinfection 1.
Member States shall ensure that cleansing and disinfection operations, as integral parts of the measures provided for in this Directive, are adequately documented and are carried out under official supervision and in accordance with the instructions given by the official veterinarian, using disinfectants and working concentrations of such disinfectants officially authorised and registered for placing on the market by the competent authority as veterinary hygiene biocidal products in accordance with Directive 98/8/EC, in order to ensure destruction of the foot-and-mouth disease virus. 2.
Member States shall ensure that cleansing and disinfection operations are carried out in accordance with Annex IV.
Article 12 Tracing and treatment of products and substances derived from or having been in contact with animals of an outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease Member States shall ensure that the products and substances referred to in Article 4(3)(c) of animals of susceptible species collected from a holding where an outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease has been confirmed and semen, ova and embryos collected from animals of susceptible species present on that holding, during the period between the probable introduction of the disease to the holding and the implementation of official measures, shall be traced and processed or, in the case of substances other than semen, ova and embryos, be treated under official supervision and in such a way as to ensure destruction of foot-and-mouth disease virus and to avoid any risk of it spreading further.
Article 13 Epidemiological inquiry 1.
Article 14 Additional measures in case of confirmation of outbreaks of foot-and-mouth disease 1.
The competent authority may order that, besides the animals of susceptible species, animals of species not susceptible to foot-and-mouth disease on the holding where an outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease has been confirmed shall also be killed and processed of in such a way as to avoid any risk of spreading the foot-and-mouth disease virus.
The competent authority may apply the measures provided for in Article 10(1)(a) on epidemiologically-linked production units or adjoining holdings, where epidemiological information or other evidence give reason to suspect a possible contamination of those holdings.
In this event, the measures regarding taking of samples and clinical examinations of animals shall be carried out at least as set out in point 2.1.1.1 of Annex III. 3.
The competent authority may apply the measures provided for in Articles 7 and 8.
Where an outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease is confirmed in one of the premises referred to in paragraph 1, the Member State concerned may decide to derogate from Article 10(1)(a), provided that basic Community interests, and in particular the animal health status of other Member States, are not endangered and that all necessary measures are in place to prevent any risk of spreading foot-and-mouth disease virus. 3.
The decision referred to in paragraph 2 shall immediately be notified to the Commission.
In the case of farm animal genetic resources, this notification shall include a reference to the list of premises established in accordance with Article 77(2)(f), by which the competent authority has identified these premises in advance as breeding nucleus of animals of susceptible species indispensable for the survival of a breed.
Article 16 Measures to be applied in slaughterhouses, border inspection posts and means of transportation 1.
Where a case of foot-and-mouth disease is confirmed in a slaughterhouse, a border inspection post established in accordance with Directive 91/496/EEC or in a means of transport, the competent authority shall ensure that the following measures are carried out in relation to the affected premises or means of transport: (a) all animals of susceptible species in such premises or means of transport shall be killed without delay; (b) the carcasses of the animals referred to in paragraph (a) shall be processed under official supervision in such a way as to avoid the risk of foot-and-mouth disease virus spreading; (c) other animal waste, including offal, of infected or suspected of being infected and contaminated animals shall be processed under official supervision in such a way as to avoid the risk of foot-and-mouth disease virus spreading; (d) dung, manure and slurry shall be subject to disinfection and shall only be removed for treatment in accordance with point 5 of Section II in Part A of Chapter III of Annex VIII to Regulation (EC) No 1774/2002; (e) cleansing and disinfection of buildings and equipment, including vehicles or means of transport, shall take place under the supervision of the official veterinarian in accordance with Article 11 and with the instructions laid down by the competent authority; (f) an epidemiological inquiry shall be carried out in accordance with Article 13. 2.
Member States shall ensure that the measures provided for in Article 19 are applied in contact holdings. 3.
Member States shall ensure that no animals are reintroduced for slaughter, inspection or transport in the premises or means of transport referred to in paragraph 1 until at least 24 hours after completion of the cleansing and disinfection operations referred to in paragraph 1(e). 4.
Where required by the epidemiological situation, in particular where contamination of animals of susceptible species in holdings adjacent to the premises ore means of transport referred to in paragraph 1 must be suspected, Member States shall ensure that by way of derogation from Article 2(b), second sentence, an outbreak is declared on the premises or means of transport referred to in paragraph 1, and the measures provided for in Articles 10 and 21 are applied.
Article 17 Review of measures The Commission shall review the situation regarding the special cases referred to in Article 15 in the Standing Committee on the Food Chain and Animal Health at the earliest possible opportunity.
The necessary measures to prevent the spread of the foot-and-mouth disease virus, in particular in relation to regionalisation in accordance with Article 45, and to emergency vaccination in accordance with Article 52, shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 89(3).
SECTION 5 HOLDINGS CONSISTING OF DIFFERENT EPIDEMIOLOGICAL PRODUCTION UNITS AND CONTACT HOLDINGS Article 18 Holdings consisting of different epidemiological production units 1.
Article 19 Contact holdings 1.
Holdings shall be recognised as contact holdings where the official veterinarian finds, or considers on the basis of confirmed data, that the foot-and-mouth disease virus may have been introduced as a result of the movement of persons, animals, products of animal origin, vehicles or in any other way either from other holdings onto a holding referred to in Articles 4(1) or 10(1) or from a holding referred to in Articles 4(1) or 10(1) to other holdings. 2.
However, the competent authority may, by way of derogation from Article 4(3)(d), authorise the transport of animals of susceptible species under official supervision directly to the closest possible designated slaughterhouse for emergency slaughter.
Where an epidemiological link between an outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease and premises or means of transportation referred to in Articles 15 and 16 respectively cannot be excluded, Member States shall ensure that the measures provided for in Article 4(2) and (3) and in Article 5 shall apply to such premises or means of transportation.
The competent authority may decide to apply the measures provided for in Article 8.
Article 20 Coordination of measures The Commission may review the situation regarding the holdings referred to in Articles 18 and 19 in the Standing Committee on the Food Chain and Animal Health with a view to the adoption, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 89(3), of the necessary measures to ensure coordination of the measures implemented by the Member States pursuant to Articles 18 and 19.
Member States shall ensure that, without prejudice to measures provided for in Article 7, at least the measures laid down in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 below are taken immediately after an outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease is confirmed. 2.
In order to ensure full coordination of all measures necessary to eradicate foot-and-mouth disease as quickly as possible, national and local disease control centres as referred to in Articles 74 and 76 shall be established.
For the purpose of carrying out the epidemiological inquiry as provided for in Article 13, those centres shall be assisted by an expert group as provided for in Article 78. 5.
Member States shall without delay trace animals dispatched from the zones during the period of at least 21 days before the estimated date of earliest infection on a holding in the protection zone and they shall inform the competent authorities in other Member States and the Commission about their results from tracing of animals. 6.
Member States shall collaborate in tracing fresh meat, meat products, raw milk and raw milk products derived from animals of susceptible species originating in the protection zone and produced between the date of estimated introduction of the foot-and-mouth disease virus until the date the measures provided for in paragraph 2 come into force.
Such fresh meat, meat products, raw milk and raw milk products shall be treated in accordance with Articles 25, 26 and 27 respectively or detained until possible contamination with the foot-and-mouth disease virus is officially ruled out.
Article 22 Measures to be applied to holdings in the protection zone 1.
Member States shall ensure that at least the following measures are applied in the protection zone without delay: (a) the registration of all holdings with animals of susceptible species and the establishment of a census of all animals present on these holdings shall be carried out as soon as possible and kept up to date; (b) all holdings with animals of susceptible species shall periodically undergo a veterinary inspection, carried out in such a way as to avoid the spread of foot-and-mouth disease virus possibly present on the holdings, which shall include in particular the relevant documentation, notably the records referred to in subparagraph (a) and the measures applied to prevent the introduction or escape of foot-and-mouth disease virus and which may include clinical inspection as described in point 1 of Annex III or taking of samples from animals of susceptible species in accordance with point 2.1.1.1 of Annex III; (c) animals of susceptible species shall not be removed from the holding on which they are kept. 2.
By way of derogation from paragraph 1(c), animals of susceptible species may be transported under official supervision for the purpose of emergency slaughter directly to a slaughterhouse situated inside the same protection zone or, if that zone has no slaughterhouse to a slaughterhouse outside the zone designated by the competent authority in means of transport cleansed and disinfected under official control after each transport operation.
The movement referred to in the first subparagraph shall only be authorised if the competent authority is satisfied on the basis of a clinical examination in accordance with point 1 of Annex III by the official veterinarian of all the animals of susceptible species present on the holding and after evaluation of epidemiological circumstances that there is no reason to suspect the presence of infected or contaminated animals on the holding.
Article 23 Movement and transport of animals and their products in the protection zone Member States shall ensure that the following activities are prohibited within the protection zone: (a) movement between holdings and transport of animals of susceptible species; (b) fairs, markets, shows and other gatherings of animals including collection and dispersion of susceptible species; (c) itinerant service for breeding of animals of susceptible species; (d) artificial insemination of and collection of ova and embryos from animals of susceptible species.
Article 24 Additional measures and derogations 1.
The competent authority may extend the prohibitions in Article 23 to: (a) movement or transport of animals of non-susceptible species between holdings situated within the zone or out of or into the protection zone; (b) transit of animals of all species through the protection zone; (c) events with gatherings of people with possible contact with animals of susceptible species, where there is a risk of spreading the foot-and-mouth disease virus; (d) artificial insemination of or collection of ova and embryos from animals of species not susceptible to foot-and-mouth disease; (e) movement of means of transport designed for the transportation of animals; (f) the slaughter on the holding of animals of susceptible species for private consumption; (g) transport of goods referred to in Article 33 to holdings keeping animals of susceptible species. 2.
The competent authorities may authorise: (a) the transit of animals of all species through the protection zone undertaken exclusively via major highways or mainline railways; (b) the transport of animals of susceptible species which have been certified by the official veterinarian as coming from holdings outside the protection zone and transported on designated routes directly to designated slaughterhouses for immediate slaughter, provided that the means of transport are cleansed and disinfected after delivery under official supervision at the slaughterhouse and such decontamination of transport is recorded in the logbook of the means of transport; (c) the artificial insemination of animals on a holding carried out by the personnel of that holding by use of semen collected from animals on that holding or semen stored on that holding or semen delivered from a semen collection centre to the outside perimeter of that holding; (d) the movement and transport of equidae taking into account the conditions set out in Annex VI. (e) the transport, under certain conditions, of goods referred to in Article 33 to holdings keeping animals of susceptible species.
Article 25 Measures in relation to fresh meat produced in the protection zone 1.
Member States shall ensure that the placing on the market of fresh meat, minced meat and meat preparations, derived from animals of susceptible species originating in the protection zone shall be prohibited. 2.
Member States shall ensure that the placing on the market of fresh meat, minced meat and meat preparations from animals of susceptible species produced in establishments situated in the protection zone shall be prohibited. 3.
Member States shall ensure that fresh meat, minced meat and meat preparations as referred to in paragraph 1, shall be marked in accordance with Directive 2002/99/EC and subsequently transported in sealed containers to an establishment designated by the competent authorities for transformation into meat products treated in accordance with point 1 in Part A of Annex VII of this Directive. 4.
By way of derogation, the prohibition provided for in paragraph 1 shall not apply to fresh meat, minced meat and meat preparations which were produced on a date at least 21 days before the estimated date of earliest infection on a holding in the protection zone and which since production have been stored and transported separately from such meats produced after that date.
By way of derogation, the prohibition provided for in paragraph 2, shall not apply to fresh meat, minced meat or meat preparations obtained from establishments situated in the protection zone under the following conditions: (a) the establishment shall be operated under strict veterinary control; (b) only fresh meat, minced meat or meat preparations as described in paragraph 4, or fresh meat, minced meat or meat preparations obtained from animals reared and slaughtered outside the protection zone or from animals transported to the establishment and slaughtered therein in accordance with the provisions in Article 24(2)(b) shall be processed in the establishment; (c) all such fresh meat, minced meat or meat preparations, must bear the health mark in accordance with Chapter XI of Annex I to Directive 64/433/EEC or in the case of meat from other biungulates the health mark provided for in Chapter III of Annex I to Directive 91/495/EEC, or in the case of minced meat and meat preparations the health mark as provided for in Chapter VI of Annex I to Directive 94/65/EC; (d) during the whole production process all such fresh meat, minced meat or meat preparations must be clearly identified, and transported and stored separately from fresh meat, minced meat or meat preparations which are not eligible for dispatch outside the protection zone in accordance with this Directive. 6.
Compliance with the conditions in paragraph 5 shall be certified by the competent authority for fresh meat, minced meat and meat preparations intended for intra-Community trade.
The competent authority shall supervise the control of compliance undertaken by the local veterinary authority and, in the case of intra-Community trade, communicate to other Member States and the Commission a list of those establishments which it has approved for the purpose of such certification. 7.
Derogation from the prohibition provided for in paragraph 1 may be granted subject to specific conditions adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 89(3), in particular with regard to the health marking of meat produced from animals of susceptible species originating in protection zones maintained for more than 30 days.
Article 26 Measures in relation to meat products produced in the protection zone 1.
Member States shall ensure that the placing on the market of meat products produced from meat derived from animals of susceptible species originating in the protection zone shall be prohibited. 2.
By way of derogation, the prohibition in paragraph 1 shall not apply to meat products which have either undergone one of the treatments as set out in point 1 in Part A of Annex VII or which have been produced from meats referred to in Article 25(4).
Article 27 Measures in relation to milk and milk products produced in the protection zone 1.
Member States shall ensure that the placing on the market of milk derived from animals of susceptible species originating in the protection zone and of milk products produced from such milk shall be prohibited. 2.
Member States shall ensure that the placing on the market of milk and milk products from animals of susceptible species produced in an establishment situated in the protection zone shall be prohibited. 3.
By way of derogation, the prohibition provided for in paragraph 1 shall not apply to milk and milk products derived from animals of susceptible species originating in the protection zone which were produced on a date at least 21 days before the estimated date of earliest infection on a holding in the protection zone and which since production have been stored and transported separately from milk and milk products produced after that date. 4.
The treatment shall be carried out under the conditions set out in paragraph 6 in establishments referred to in paragraph 5 or, if there is no establishment situated in the protection zone, in establishments situated outside the protection zone under the conditions set down in paragraph 8. 5.
By way of derogation, the prohibition provided for in paragraph 2 shall not apply to milk and milk products which have been prepared in establishments situated in the protection zone under the conditions set out in paragraph 6. 6.
Establishments referred to in paragraphs 4 and 5 shall comply with the following conditions: (a) the establishment shall be operated under permanent and strict official control; (b) all milk used in the establishment shall either comply with paragraphs 3 and 4 or the raw milk shall be obtained from animals outside the protection zone; (c) during the whole production process the milk shall be clearly identified and transported and stored separately from raw milk and raw milk products which are not destined for dispatch outside the protection zone; (d) transport of raw milk from holdings situated outside the protection zone to the establishments shall be carried out in vehicles which were cleaned and disinfected prior to the transport operation, and which have had no subsequent contact with holdings in the protection zone keeping animals of susceptible species. 7.
Compliance with the conditions in paragraph 6 shall be certified by the competent authority for milk intended for intra-Community trade.
The competent authority shall supervise the control of compliance undertaken by the local veterinary authority and, in the case of intra-Community trade, communicate to other Member States and the Commission a list of those establishments which it has approved for the purpose of such certification. 8.
Transport of raw milk from holdings situated within the protection zone to establishments situated outside the protection zone and the processing of that milk shall be subject to the following conditions: (a) processing in establishments situated outside the protection zone of raw milk produced from animals of susceptible species kept within the protection zone shall be authorised by the competent authorities; (b) the authorisation shall include instructions on and designation of the transport route to the designated establishment; (c) transport shall be carried out in vehicles which were cleaned and disinfected prior to the transport operation, which are constructed and maintained in such a way that there is no leakage of milk during transport and which are equipped to avoid aerosol dispersion during the loading and unloading of the milk; (d) before leaving the holding from where milk of animals of susceptible species was collected the connection pipes, tires, wheel cases, the lower parts of the vehicle and any spillage of milk are cleansed and disinfected and after the last disinfection and before leaving the protection zone the vehicle had no subsequent contact with holdings in the protection zone keeping animals of susceptible species; (e) the means of transport are strictly assigned to a defined geographical or administrative area, they are marked accordingly and may only be moved to another area after cleansing and disinfection under official supervision. 9.
The collection and transport of samples of raw milk of animals of susceptible species from holdings situated in the protection zone to a laboratory other than a veterinary diagnostic laboratory approved for diagnosis of foot-and-mouth disease and the processing of the milk in such laboratories shall be forbidden.
Article 28 Measures in relation to semen, ova and embryos collected from animals of susceptible species in the protection zone 1.
Member States shall ensure that the placing on the market of semen, ova and embryos derived from animals of susceptible species originating in the protection zone shall be prohibited. 2.
Frozen semen collected in accordance with Community legislation after the date of infection referred to in paragraph 2, shall be stored separately and shall only be released after: (a) all the measures relating to the outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease have been removed in accordance with Article 36, and (b) all animals accommodated in the semen collection centre have undergone a clinical examination, and samples taken in accordance with point 2.2 of Annex III have been subjected to a serological test to substantiate the absence of infection in the semen collection centre concerned, and (c) the donor animal has been subjected with negative result to a serological test for the detection of antibodies against the foot-and-mouth disease virus on a sample taken not earlier than 28 days after the collection of the semen.
Article 29 Transport and distribution of dung and manure of animals of susceptible species produced in the protection zone 1.
Member States shall ensure that the transport and distribution of dung or manure from holdings and premises or means of transport referred to in Article 16 situated in the protection zone where animals of susceptible species are kept, shall be prohibited within the protection zone. 2.
By way of derogation from the prohibition in paragraph 1 the competent authority may authorise the removal of manure of animals of susceptible species from a holding situated in the protection zone to a designated plant for treatment in accordance with point 5 of Section II in Part A of Chapter III of Annex VIII to Regulation (EC) No 1774/2002 or for intermediate storage. 3.
By way of derogation from the prohibition in paragraph 1 the competent authority may authorise the removal of manure of animals of susceptible species from holdings situated in the protection zone which are not subject to the measures provided for in Articles 4 or 10 for distribution on designated fields under the following conditions: (a) the entire volume of manure has been produced at least 21 days before the estimated date of earliest infection on a holding in the protection zone and the manure or dung is distributed close to the ground and in sufficient distance from holdings keeping animals of susceptible species and immediately incorporated into the ground, or (b) in the case of manure from bovine animals or pigs: (i) an examination by an official veterinarian of all the animals on the holding has ruled out the presence of animals suspected of being infected with the foot-and-mouth disease virus, and (ii) the entire volume of manure has been produced at least 4 days prior to the examination referred to in point (i), and (iii) the manure is incorporated into the ground on designated fields close to the holding of origin and in sufficient distance to other holdings keeping animals of susceptible species in the protection zone. 4.
Member States shall ensure that the placing on the market of hides and skins of animals of susceptible species originating in the protection zone shall be prohibited. 2.
By way of derogation, the prohibition as provided for in paragraph 1 shall not apply to hides and skins which either: (a) were produced at least 21 days before the estimated date of infection on the holding referred to in Article 10(1), and that have been stored separately from hides and skins produced after that date; or (b) comply with the requirements laid down in point 2 in Part A of Annex VII.
Article 31 Measures in relation to sheep wool, ruminant hair and pig bristles produced in the protection zone 1.
Member States shall ensure that the placing on the market of sheep wool, ruminant hair and pig bristles originating in the protection zone shall be prohibited. 2.
By way of derogation, the prohibition as provided for in paragraph 1 shall not apply to unprocessed wool, hair and bristles which: (a) were produced at least 21 days before the estimated date of infection on the holding referred to in Article 10(1) and have been stored separately from wool, hair and bristles produced after that date; or (b) comply with the requirements laid down in point 3 in Part A of Annex VII.
Article 32 Measures in relation to other animal products produced in the protection zone 1.
Member States shall ensure that the placing on the market of animal products derived from animals of susceptible species not referred to in Articles 25 to 31 shall be prohibited. 2.
By way of derogation, the prohibitions provided for in paragraph 1 shall not apply to products referred to in paragraph 1 which: (a) either have been produced at least 21 days before the estimated date of infection on the holding referred to in Article 10(1) and have been stored and transported separately from products produced after that date, or (b) have undergone the treatment in accordance with point 4 in Part A of Annex VII, or (c) for specific products, comply with the appropriate requirements in points 5 to 9 in Part A of Annex VII, or (d) are composite products which are not subject to further treatment containing products of animal origin which either have undergone a treatment ensuring destruction of possible foot-and-mouth disease virus or have been obtained from animals not subject to restrictions under the provisions of this Directive, or (e) are packed products intended for use as in-vitro diagnostic or laboratory reagents.
Article 34 Granting of derogations and additional certification 1.
Any derogation from the prohibitions provided for in Articles 25 to 33 requires, in the case of intra-Community trade, additional certification by the competent authority. 3.
Detailed rules for the implementation of the measures provided for in paragraph 2 may be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 89(2).
Article 35 Additional measures applied by Member States in the protection zone In addition to the measures applicable in the protection zone in accordance with this Directive, Member States may take additional national measures which are deemed necessary and proportionate to contain the foot-and-mouth disease virus taking into account the particular epidemiological, animal husbandry, commercial and social conditions prevailing in the affected area.
Article 36 Removal of measures in the protection zone 1.
Member States shall ensure that the measures applied in the protection zone are maintained until the following requirements have been met: (a) at least 15 days have elapsed since the killing and safe disposal of all the animals of susceptible species from the holding referred to in Article 10(1) and the completion of the preliminary cleansing and disinfection on that holding, carried out in accordance with Article 11; (b) a survey has been concluded with negative results in all holdings keeping animals of susceptible species and situated within the protection zone. 2.
After the removal of the measures specific to the protection zone, the measures applied in the surveillance zone as provided for in Articles 37 to 42, shall continue to apply for at least 15 days until those measures are removed in accordance with Article 44. 3.
Member States shall ensure that the measures provided for in Article 22(1) are applied in the surveillance zone. 2.
By way of derogation from the prohibition provided for in Article 22(1)(c) and where there is no or insufficient slaughter capacity available within the surveillance zone, the competent authorities may authorise the removal from holdings situated in the surveillance zone of animals of susceptible species for transporting them directly and under official supervision for slaughter to a slaughterhouse located outside the surveillance zone, subject to the following conditions: (a) the records referred to in Article 22(1) have been subjected to official control, and the epidemiological situation of the holding does not indicate any suspicion of infection or contamination with the foot-and-mouth disease virus, and (b) all the animals of susceptible species on the holding have been subjected with negative result to an inspection by the official veterinarian, and (c) a representative number of animals, taking into account the statistical parameters in point 2.2 of Annex III, has been subjected to thorough clinical examination to rule out the presence or suspicion of clinically infected animals, and (d) the slaughterhouse is designated by the competent authority and located as near to the surveillance zone as possible, and (e) the meat produced from such animals shall be subject to the treatment specified in Article 39.
Member States shall ensure that animals of susceptible species shall not be removed from holdings within the surveillance zone. 2.
Movements of animals provided for in paragraph 2(a) shall be authorised by the competent authority only after an examination by an official veterinarian of all the animals of susceptible species on the holding, including testing of samples taken in accordance with point 2.2 of Annex III, has ruled out the presence of animals suspected of being infected or animals suspected of being contaminated. 4.
Movements of animals provided for in paragraph 2(b) shall be authorised by the competent authority only after the measures provided for in Article 37(2)(a) and (b) have been completed with satisfactory results. 5.
Article 39 Measures to be applied to fresh meat of animals of susceptible species originating in the surveillance zone and meat products produced from such meat 1.
Member States shall ensure that the placing on the market of fresh meat, minced meat and meat preparations derived from animals of susceptible species originating in the surveillance zone and of meat products produced from such meats shall be prohibited. 2.
Member States shall ensure that the placing on the market of fresh meat, minced meat, meat preparations and meat products from animals of susceptible species produced in establishments situated in the surveillance zone shall be prohibited. 3.
By way of derogation, the prohibition provided for in paragraph 1 shall not apply to fresh meat, minced meat and meat preparations which were produced on a date at least 21 days before the estimated date of earliest infection on a holding in the corresponding protection zone and which since production have been stored and transported separately from such meats produced after that date.
By way of derogation, the prohibition provided for in paragraph 1 shall not apply to fresh meat, minced meat and meat preparations which were produced from animals transported to the slaughterhouse under conditions at least as strict as provided for in Article 37(2)(a) to (e) under the condition that the meat is subject to the measures provided for in paragraph 5. 5.
By way of derogation, the prohibition provided for in paragraph 2, shall not apply to fresh meat, minced meat or meat preparations obtained from establishments situated in the surveillance zone under the following conditions: (a) the establishment shall be operated under strict veterinary control; (b) only fresh meat, minced meat or meat preparations as described in paragraph 4 and subject to the additional conditions provided for in Part B of Annex VIII or obtained from animals reared and slaughtered outside the surveillance zone or obtained from animals transported in accordance with the provisions in Article 24(2)(b) shall be processed in the establishment; (c) all such fresh meat, minced meat or meat preparations must bear the health mark in accordance with Chapter XI of Annex I to Directive 64/433/EEC or in the case of meat from other biungulates the health mark provided for in Chapter III of Annex I to Directive 91/495/EEC, or in the case of minced meat and meat preparations the health mark as provided for in Chapter VI of Annex I to Directive 95/65/EC; (d) during the whole production process all such fresh meat, minced meat or meat preparations must be clearly identified, and transported and stored separately from fresh meat, minced meat or meat preparations which are not eligible for dispatch outside the surveillance zone in accordance with this Directive. 6.
By way of derogation, the prohibition provided for in paragraph 1, shall not apply to meat products produced from fresh meat obtained from animals of susceptible species originating in the surveillance zone which was marked with the health mark provided for Directive 2002/99/EC and transported under official supervision to a designated establishment for treatment in accordance with point 1 in Part A of Annex VII. 7.
By way of derogation, the prohibition provided for in paragraph 2, shall not apply to meat products produced in establishments situated in the surveillance zone and either complying with the provisions in paragraph 6, or produced from meat complying with paragraph 5. 8.
Compliance with the conditions in paragraphs 5 and 7 shall be certified by the competent authority for fresh meat, minced meat and meat preparations intended for intra-Community trade.
The competent authority shall supervise the control of compliance undertaken by the local veterinary authority and in the case of intra-Community trade communicate to other Member States and the Commission a list of those establishments which it has approved for the purpose of such certification. 9.
Derogation from the prohibition provided for in paragraph 1 may be granted subject to specific conditions adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 89(3), in particular with regard to the health marking of meat produced from animals of susceptible species originating in surveillance zone maintained for more than 30 days.
Article 40 Measures to be applied to milk and milk products of animals of susceptible species produced in the surveillance zone 1.
Member States shall ensure that placing on the market of milk derived from animals of susceptible species originating in the surveillance zone and of milk products produced from such milk shall be prohibited. 2.
Member States shall ensure that the placing on the market of milk and milk products from animals of susceptible species produced in the surveillance zone shall be prohibited. 3.
By way of derogation, the prohibition provided for in paragraph 1 shall not apply to milk and milk products derived from animals of susceptible species originating in the surveillance zone which were produced on a date at least 21 days before the estimated date of earliest infection on a holding in the corresponding protection zone and which since production have been stored and transported separately from milk and milk products produced after that date. 4.
By way of derogation, the prohibition provided for in paragraph 1 shall not apply to milk derived from animals of susceptible species originating in the surveillance zone and milk products produced from such milk which have undergone one of the treatments as set out in Parts A or B of Annex IX depending on the use of the milk or milk products.
The treatment shall be carried out under the condition set out in paragraph 6 in establishments referred to in paragraph 5 or, if there is no establishment situated in the surveillance zone, in establishments designated by the competent authorities and situated outside the protection and surveillance zones. 5.
By way of derogation, the prohibition provided for in paragraph 2 shall not apply to milk and milk products which have been prepared in establishments situated in the surveillance zone under the conditions set out in paragraph 6. 6.
Establishments referred to in paragraphs 4 and 5 shall comply with the following conditions: (a) the establishment shall be operated under strict veterinary control; (b) all milk used in the establishment shall either comply with paragraph 4 or be obtained from animals outside the surveillance and protection zone; (c) throughout the production process the milk shall be clearly identified and transported and stored separately from milk and milk products which are not destined for dispatch outside the surveillance zone; (d) transport of raw milk from holdings situated outside the protection and surveillance zone to the establishments shall be carried out in vehicles which were cleaned and disinfected prior to the transport operation, and which have had no subsequent contact with holdings in the protection and surveillance zones keeping animals of susceptible species. 7.
Compliance with the conditions in paragraph 6 shall be certified by the competent authority for milk intended for intra-Community trade.
The competent authority shall supervise the control of compliance undertaken by the local veterinary authority and, in the case of intra-Community trade, communicate to other Member States and the Commission a list of those establishments which it has approved for the purpose of such certification. 8.
Transport of raw milk from holdings situated within the surveillance zone to establishments situated outside the protection and surveillance zones and the processing of that milk shall be subject to the following conditions: (a) processing in establishments situated outside the protection and surveillance zones of raw milk produced from animals of susceptible species kept within the surveillance zone shall be authorised by the competent authorities; (b) the authorisation shall include instructions on and designation of the transport route to the designated establishment; (c) transport shall be carried out in vehicles which were cleaned and disinfected prior to the transport operation, which are constructed and maintained in such a way that there is no leakage of milk during transport and which are equipped to avoid aerosol dispersion during the loading and unloading of the milk; (d) before leaving the holding from where milk of animals of susceptible species was collected, the connection pipes, tires, wheel cases, the lower parts of the vehicle and any spillage of milk are cleansed and disinfected and after the last disinfection and before leaving the surveillance zone the vehicle had no subsequent contact with holdings in the protection and surveillance zones keeping animals of susceptible species; (e) the means of transport are strictly assigned to a defined geographical or administrative area, they are marked accordingly and may only be moved to another area after cleansing and disinfection under official supervision. 9.
The collection and transport of samples of raw milk of animals of susceptible species from holdings situated in the surveillance zone to a laboratory other than a veterinary diagnostic laboratory approved for diagnosis of foot-and-mouth disease and the processing of the milk in such laboratories shall be subject to official authorisation and measures to avoid any spread of possible foot-and-mouth disease virus.
Article 41 Transport and distribution of dung and manure of animals of susceptible species produced in the surveillance zone 1.
Member States shall ensure that the transport and distribution of dung or manure from holdings and other premises such as those mentioned in Article 16 situated in the surveillance zone where animals of susceptible species are kept shall be prohibited within and outside that zone. 2.
By way of derogation from the prohibition provided for in paragraph 1 the competent authorities may in exceptional circumstances authorise the transport of dung or manure in means of transport thoroughly cleansed and disinfected prior to and after use for distribution in designated areas within the surveillance zone and at sufficient distance to holdings where animals of susceptible species are kept under the following alternative conditions: (a) either an examination by an official veterinarian of all the animals of susceptible species on the holding has ruled out the presence of animals suspected of being infected with the foot-and-mouth disease virus and the manure or dung is distributed close to the ground to avoid the generation of aerosols and immediately ploughed into the ground, or (b) a clinical inspection by an official veterinarian of all the animals of susceptible species on the holding has been carried out with negative result and the manure is injected into ground, or; (c) manure is subject to the provision of Article 29(2).
Article 42 Measures in relation to other animal products produced in the surveillance zone Member State shall ensure that the placing on the market of products of animal origin other than those referred to in Articles 39 to 41 shall be subject to the conditions provided for in Articles 28 and 30 to 32.
Article 43 Additional measures applied by Member States in the surveillance zone In addition to the measures provided for in Articles 37 to 42, Member States may take additional national measures which are deemed necessary and proportionate to contain foot-and-mouth disease virus taking into account the particular epidemiological, animal husbandry, commercial and social conditions prevailing in the affected area.
Article 44 Removal of measures in the surveillance zone 1.
Member states shall ensure that the measures applied in the surveillance zone are maintained until the following requirements have been met: (a) at least 30 days have elapsed since the killing and safe disposal of all animals of susceptible species from the holding referred to in Article 10(1) and the completion of the preliminary cleansing and disinfection on that holding, carried out in accordance with Article 11; (b) the requirements provided for in Article 36 have been met in the protection zone; (c) a survey has been concluded with negative results. 2.
The survey referred to in paragraph 1(c) shall be carried out to substantiate the absence of infection in the surveillance zone in compliance with the criteria of point 1 of Annex III and shall include the measures provided for in point 2.4 of Annex III based on the criteria of point 2.1 of Annex III.
SECTION 7 REGIONALISATION, MOVEMENT CONTROL AND IDENTIFICATION Article 45 Regionalisation 1.
Member States shall notify to the Commission without delay the details of the measures implemented in the restricted zone and the Commission shall review, where necessary amend, and endorse the measures in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 89(3). 3.
The restricted zone may be reduced in the light of the results of the epidemiological inquiry provided for in Article 13, to an area of the size not less than a sub-region, and where necessary the surrounding sub-regions.
Article 46 Measures applied in a restricted zone of a member state 1.
Where regionalisation is applied, Member States shall ensure that at least the following measures are taken: (a) control within the restricted zone of transport and movement of animals of susceptible species, animal products and goods and of the movement of means of transport as potential carriers of foot-and-mouth disease virus; (b) tracing and marking in accordance with Community legislation of fresh meat and raw milk and as far as possible other products in stock not eligible for dispatch outside the restricted zone; (c) specific certification of animals of susceptible species and products derived from such animals and health marking, in accordance with Community legislation, of products for human consumption intended and eligible for dispatch outside the restricted zone. 2.
Member States shall collaborate in tracing fresh meat and raw milk and raw milk products derived from animals of susceptible species produced in the restricted zone between the date of estimated introduction of the foot-and-mouth disease virus until the date regionalisation is implemented.
Specific measures, in particular in relation to health marking of products derived from animals of susceptible species originating in the restricted zone and not intended for placing on the market outside the restricted zone may be adopted in accordance with Article 4(3) of Directive 2002/99/EC.
Article 47 Identification of animals of susceptible species 1.
The arrangements for identifying such animals or for tracing their holdings of origin shall be determined by the competent authority and notified to the Commission. 2.
The measures taken by Member States on additional, permanent and indelible marking of animals for the particular purpose of control of the foot-and-mouth disease, and in particular in case of vaccination carried out in accordance with Articles 52 and 53, may be modified in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 89(3).
Article 48 Movement control in case of an outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease 1.
SECTION 8 VACCINATION Article 49 Use, manufacture, sales and controls of foot-and-mouth disease vaccines Member States shall ensure that: (a) the use of foot-and-mouth disease vaccines and the administration of hyperimmune sera against foot-and-mouth disease are prohibited on their territory except as provided for in this Directive; (b) the production, storage, supply, distribution and sale of foot-and-mouth disease vaccines on their territory are carried out under official control; (c) the marketing of foot-and-mouth disease vaccines is under the supervision of the competent authorities in accordance with Community legislation; (d) the use of foot-and-mouth disease vaccines for purposes other than to induce active immunity in animals of susceptible species, notably laboratory investigations, scientific research or testing of vaccines, is authorised by the competent authorities and carried out under appropriate bio-security conditions.
Article 50 Decision on introducing emergency vaccination 1.
It may be decided to introduce emergency vaccination where at least one of the following conditions applies: (a) outbreaks of foot-and-mouth disease have been confirmed and threaten to become widespread in the Member State where such outbreaks have been confirmed; (b) other Member States are at risk due to the geographical situation of or the prevailing meteorological conditions in relation to reported outbreaks of foot-and-mouth disease in a Member State; (c) other Member States are at risk due to epidemiologically relevant contacts between holdings on their territories and holdings keeping animals of susceptible species in a Member State where there are outbreaks of foot-and-mouth disease; (d) Member States are at risk due to the geographical situation or the prevailing meteorological conditions in a neighbouring third country where there are outbreaks of foot-and-mouth disease. 2.
When deciding on the introduction of emergency vaccination, consideration shall be given to the measures provided for in Article 15 and to the criteria listed in Annex X. 3.
The decision to introduce emergency vaccination shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 89(3). 4.
The decision referred to in paragraph 3 to introduce emergency vaccination on its own territory may be requested: (a) either by the Member State referred to in paragraph 1(a), or (b) by a Member State referred to in paragraph 1(b), (c) or (d). 5.
By way of derogation from paragraph 3, the decision to introduce emergency vaccination may be taken by the Member State concerned and implemented in accordance with this Directive, after a written notification to the Commission which shall include the specifications provided for in Article 51. 6.
If a Member State introduces emergency vaccination in accordance with paragraph 5, that decision shall be immediately reviewed in the Standing Committee on the Food Chain and Animal Health and Community measures shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 89(3). 7.
By way of derogation from paragraph 4, a decision to introduce emergency vaccination in a Member State referred to in paragraph (1)(a) may be adopted in concertation with the affected Member State in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 89(3) on the Commission's own initiative, if the condition in paragraph (1)(a) and paragraph (1)(b) apply.
Article 51 Conditions for emergency vaccination 1.
The conditions for emergency vaccination as provided for in paragraph 1, shall ensure that such vaccination is carried out in accordance with Article 52, irrespective of whether the vaccinated animals are subsequently slaughtered or stay alive. 3.
Member States shall ensure that an information programme shall be put in place to inform the public about the safety of meat, milk and dairy products from vaccinated animals for human consumption.
Article 52 Protective vaccination 1.
Member States applying protective vaccination shall ensure that: (a) the vaccination zone shall be regionalised in accordance with Article 45, where necessary in close cooperation with neighbouring Member States; (b) vaccination shall be carried out swiftly and in conformity with the rules of hygiene and bio-security so as to avoid the spread of foot-and-mouth disease virus; (c) all measures applied in the vaccination zone shall be carried out without prejudice to the measures provided for in Section 7; (d) where the vaccination zone includes parts of or the entire protection or surveillance zone: (i) the measures applicable for the protection zone or surveillance zone in accordance with this Directive shall be maintained within that part of the vaccination zone until such measures have been removed in accordance with Article 36 or Article 44; (ii) after the measures applied in the protection zone and surveillance zone have been removed, the measures applicable for the vaccination zone as provided for in Articles 54 to 58 shall continue to apply. 2.
Article 53 Suppressive vaccination 1.
Member States shall notify the Commission if they decide in accordance with Article 50 and taking into account all relevant circumstances, to introduce suppressive vaccination and shall provide details of the control measures to be taken which shall include at least those provided for in Article 21. 2.
Article 54 Measures applicable in the vaccination zone during the period from the beginning of emergency vaccination until at least 30 days have elapsed following the completion of such vaccination (Phase 1) 1.
Member States shall ensure that the measures provided for in paragraphs 2 to 6 are applied in the vaccination zone during the period from the beginning of the emergency vaccination until at least 30 days have elapsed following the completion of such vaccination. 2.
By way of derogation from the prohibition provided for in the first subparagraph, and after clinical inspection of such live animals and the herds of origin or dispatch of those animals, the competent authorities may authorise their direct transport for immediate slaughter in a slaughterhouse designated by the competent authority and situated within the vaccination zone or in exceptional cases close to that zone. 3.
Fresh meat produced from vaccinated animals slaughtered during the period referred to in paragraph 1 shall: (a) bear the mark provided for in Directive 2002/99/EC; (b) be stored and transported separately from meat not bearing the mark referred to in point (a), and shall subsequently be transported in sealed containers to an establishment designated by the competent authorities for treatment in accordance with point 1 in Part A of Annex VII. 4.
Milk and milk products produced from vaccinated animals may be placed on the market within or outside the vaccination zone, provided that, depending on the final use for either human consumption or non-human consumption, it has undergone at least one of the treatments referred to in Parts A and B of Annex IX.
The treatment shall be carried out under the conditions set out in paragraph 5 in establishments situated in the vaccination zone or, if there is no establishment in that zone, in establishments situated outside the vaccination zone to which the raw milk is transported under the conditions set down in paragraph 7. 5.
Establishments referred to in paragraphs 4 shall comply with the following conditions: (a) the establishment shall be operated under permanent and strict official control; (b) all milk used in the establishment shall either comply with paragraph 4 or the raw milk shall be obtained from animals outside the vaccination zone; (c) during the whole production process the milk shall be clearly identified and transported and stored separately from raw milk and raw milk products which are not destined for dispatch outside the vaccination zone; (d) transport of raw milk from holdings situated outside the vaccination zone to the establishments shall be carried out in vehicles which were cleaned and disinfected prior to the transport operation, and which have had no subsequent contact with holdings in a restricted zone keeping animals of susceptible species. 6.
Compliance with the conditions in paragraph 5 shall be certified by the competent authority for milk intended for intra-Community trade.
The competent authority shall supervise the control of compliance undertaken by the local veterinary authority and in the case of intra-Community trade communicate to other Member States and the Commission a list of those establishments which it has approved for the purpose of such certification. 7.
Transport of raw milk from holdings situated within the vaccination zone to establishments situated outside the vaccination zone and the processing of that milk shall be subject to the following conditions: (a) processing in establishments situated outside the vaccination zone of raw milk produced from animals of susceptible species kept within the vaccination zone shall be authorised by the competent authorities; (b) the authorisation shall include instructions on and designation of the transport route to the designated establishment; (c) transport shall be carried out in vehicles which were cleaned and disinfected prior to the transport operation, which are constructed and maintained in such a way that there is no leakage of milk during transport and which are equipped to avoid aerosol dispersion during the loading and unloading of the milk; (d) before leaving the holding from where milk of animals of susceptible species was collected, the connection pipes, tires, wheel cases, the lower parts of the vehicle and any spillage of milk are cleansed and disinfected and after the last disinfection and before leaving the vaccination zone the vehicle had no subsequent contact with holdings in the vaccination zone keeping animals of susceptible species; (e) the means of transport are strictly assigned to a defined geographical or administrative area, they are marked accordingly and may only be moved to another area after cleansing and disinfection under official supervision. 8.
The collection and transport of samples of raw milk of animals of susceptible species from holdings situated in the vaccination zone to a laboratory other than a veterinary diagnostic laboratory approved for diagnosis of foot-and-mouth disease and the processing of the milk in such laboratories shall be forbidden. 9.
By way of derogation from the prohibition provided for in the first subparagraph, the competent authorities may authorise the collection of semen at semen collection centres within the vaccination zone for the production of frozen semen, subject to the following conditions: (a) it is ensured that the semen collected during the period referred to in paragraph 1 is stored separately for at least 30 days, and (b) prior to dispatch of the semen: (1) either the donor animal has not been vaccinated and the conditions of Article 28(3)(b) and (c) apply, or (2) the donor animal has been vaccinated following a negative test for antibodies against foot-and-mouth disease virus carried out prior to vaccination; and (i) a negative result has been achieved in a test for the detection of either virus or viral genome or an approved test for the detection of antibody against non-structural proteins, carried out at the end of the quarantine period for the semen on samples taken from all animals of susceptible species present at that time on the semen collection centre, and (ii) the semen complies with the conditions of Article 4(3) of Chapter II of Directive 88/407/EEC. 10.
The placing on the market of products of animal origin other than those referred to in paragraphs 9 and 10 shall be subject to the conditions provided for in Articles 30, 31, 32 and 41.
Article 55 Measures applicable in the vaccination zone during the period from emergency vaccination until the survey and the classification of holdings are completed (Phase 2) 1.
Member States shall ensure that the measures provided for in paragraphs 2 to 5 are applied in the vaccination zone during a period starting not earlier than 30 days from the date of completion of emergency vaccination and terminating with the completion of the measures provided for in Articles 56 and 57. 2.
By way of derogation from the prohibition provided for in paragraph 2, the competent authorities may authorise direct transport for immediate slaughter of animals of susceptible species from holdings referred to in Article 57(5) to a slaughterhouse situated within or out of the vaccination zone on the following conditions: (a) during transport and in the slaughterhouse those animals shall not come into contact with other animals of susceptible species; (b) the animals shall be accompanied by an official document certifying that all animals of susceptible species on the holding of origin or dispatch have undergone a survey provided for in Article 56(2); (c) the transport vehicles shall be cleansed and disinfected before loading and after the animals have been delivered, with the date and time of the cleaning and disinfection being recorded in the logbook of the means of transport; (d) the animals shall have passed the ante-mortem health inspection at the slaughterhouse during the 24 hours before slaughter and have in particular undergone examination for mouth and feet disease and not shown signs of that disease. 4.
Fresh meat, excluding offal, produced from vaccinated large and small ruminants during the period referred to in paragraph 1, may be placed on the market within and outside the vaccination zone under the following conditions: (a) the establishment shall be operated under strict veterinary control; (b) only fresh meat, excluding offal, which was subjected to the treatment described in points 1, 3 and 4 in Part A of Annex VIII or fresh meat obtained from animals reared and slaughtered outside the vaccination zone shall be processed in the establishment; (c) all such fresh meat shall bear the health mark in accordance with Chapter XI of Annex I to Directive 64/433/EEC or, in the case of meat from other biungulates, the health mark provided for in Chapter III of Annex I of Directive 91/495/EEC, or, in the case of minced meat and meat preparations, the health mark provided for in Chapter VI of Annex I of Directive 94/65/EC; (d) throughout the production process the fresh meat shall be clearly identified, and transported and stored separately from meat of different animal health status in accordance with this Directive. 5.
Compliance with the conditions in paragraph 4 shall be certified by the competent authority for fresh meat intended for intra-Community trade.
The competent authority shall supervise the control of compliance undertaken by the local veterinary authorities and, in the case of intra-Community trade, communicate to other Member States and the Commission a list of those establishments which it has approved for the purpose of such certification. 6.
Fresh meat produced from vaccinated porcine animals slaughtered during the period referred to in paragraph 1 shall bear the health mark provided for in Directive 2002/99/EC and shall be stored and transported separately from meat not bearing that mark and subsequently be transported in sealed containers to an establishment designated by the competent authorities for treatment in accordance with point 1 in Part A of Annex VII. 7.
Milk and milk products produced from vaccinated animals may be placed on the market within or outside the vaccination zone, provided that depending on the final use for either human consumption or non-human consumption it has undergone at least one of the treatments referred to in Parts A and B of Annex IX.
The placing on the market of products of animal origin other than those referred to in paragraphs 4, 6, 7 and 8 shall be subject to the conditions provided for in Articles 30, 31, 32 and 41.
Article 56 Clinical and serological survey in the vaccination zone (Phase 2-A) 1.
Member States shall ensure that the measures provided for in paragraphs 2 and 3 are applied in the vaccination zone during a period starting not earlier than 30 days from the date of completion of emergency vaccination and terminating with the completion of a clinical and serological survey. 2.
That survey shall include a clinical inspection of all animals of susceptible species in all herds in the vaccination zone, and laboratory testing in accordance with paragraph 3. 3.
Laboratory testing shall be carried out by use of tests complying with the criteria for diagnostic tests as set out in Annex XIII and approved in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 89(2), and shall comply with one of the following conditions: (a) testing for infection with the foot-and-mouth disease virus, either by an assay for antibodies against non-structural proteins of the foot-and-mouth disease virus, or by another approved method, shall meet criteria for sampling on holdings set out in point 2.2 of Annex III.
Article 57 Classification of herds in the vaccination zone (Phase 2-B) 1.
Member States shall ensure that the holdings containing animals of susceptible species: (a) are classified according to the outcome of the survey referred to in Article 56(2) and the criteria set out in Annex I; (b) comply with the measures set out in paragraphs 2 to 4. 2.
Holdings containing at least one animal of susceptible species suspected of being infected through previous contact with the foot-and-mouth disease virus but where further testing including all animals of susceptible species present on the holding confirmed the absence of circulating foot-and-mouth disease virus shall be subject to at least the following measures: (a) animals of susceptible species on the holding shall: (1) either be killed and the carcasses processed, or (2) the animals shall be classified and (i) the animals positive to at least one of the approved tests referred to in Article 56(3) shall be killed and their carcasses processed, and (ii) the remaining animals of susceptible species on the holding shall be slaughtered under conditions authorised by the competent authorities; (b) cleansing and disinfection of the holdings in accordance with Article 11; (c) restocking of animals in accordance with Annex V. 4.
Member States shall ensure that the following measures are applied to products derived from animals of susceptible species and produced during the period referred to in Article 56(1): (a) fresh meat produced from the animals referred to in paragraph 3(2)(ii) shall be subject to Article 55(4), for meat from ruminants, and (6), for meat from porcine animals, respectively; (b) milk and milk products produced from the animals referred to in paragraph 3(2)(ii) shall undergo at least one of the treatments specified in Parts A and B of Annex IX depending on the intended use and in compliance with the provisions in Article 54(4) to (8). 5.
Article 58 Measures applicable in the vaccination zone after the completion of the survey and the classification of holdings until the foot-and-mouth disease and infection free status is recovered (Phase 3) 1.
Member States shall ensure that the measures provided for in paragraphs 2 to 6 are applied in the vaccination zone after the completion of the measures laid down in Article 57 and until the foot-and-mouth disease and infection-free status has been recovered in accordance with Article 59. 2.
By way of derogation from this prohibition, direct transport to a slaughterhouse for immediate slaughter of animals of susceptible species may be authorised under the conditions provided for in Article 55(3). 4.
By way of derogation from the prohibition in paragraph 2, the competent authorities may authorise the transport of unvaccinated animals of susceptible species in accordance with the following provisions: (a) within 24 hours of loading, all animals of susceptible species on the holding have been subjected to clinical examination and have not shown clinical signs of foot-and-mouth disease, and (b) the animals have completed a standstill on the holding of origin of at least 30 days during which no animal of susceptible species has been introduced onto the holding, and (c) the holding of origin is not situated in a protection or surveillance zone, and (d) the animals intended for transport were either individually subjected with negative results to tests for the detection of antibodies against the foot-and-mouth disease virus at the end of the isolation period, or a serological survey was completed on that holding in accordance with point 2.2 of Annex III irrespective of the species concerned; (e) the animals were not exposed to any source of infection during their transportation from the holding of origin to the place of destination. 5.
Non-vaccinated offspring of vaccinated dams shall be prohibited from leaving the holding of origin unless being transported to: (a) a holding within the vaccination zone of the same health status as the holding of origin; (b) a slaughterhouse for immediate slaughter; (c) a holding designated by the competent authority, from which the offspring are to be sent directly to the slaughterhouse; (d) any holding, after having obtained a negative result in a serological test for the detection of antibody against the foot-and-mouth disease virus carried out on a sample of blood taken prior to dispatch from the holding of origin. 6.
Fresh meat produced from unvaccinated animals of susceptible species may be placed on the market inside and outside the vaccination zone under the following conditions: (a) either the measures provided for in Article 57(3) have been completed in the entire vaccination zone or the animals are transported to the slaughterhouse under the conditions provided for in paragraph 3 or 4(d), and; (b) the establishment shall be operated under strict veterinary control; (c) only fresh meat produced from animals referred to in point (a) or from animals reared and/or slaughtered outside the vaccination zone or fresh meat referred to in paragraph 8 shall be processed in the establishment; (d) all such fresh meat shall bear the health mark in accordance with Chapter XI of Annex I to Directive 64/433/EEC or in the case of meat from other biungulates, the health mark provided for in Chapter III of Annex I of Directive 91/495/EEC, or in the case of minced meat and meat preparations the health mark provided for in Chapter VI of Annex I of Directive 94/65/EC; (e) throughout the production process the fresh meat shall be clearly identified, and transported and stored separately from meat of different animal health status in accordance with this Directive. 7.
By way of derogation from paragraph 7, fresh meat and trimmed offal produced from vaccinated large and small ruminants or their non-vaccinated seropositive offspring may be placed on the market within and outside the vaccination zone under the following conditions: (a) the establishment shall be operated under strict veterinary control; (b) only fresh meat excluding offal, which was subjected to the treatment described in point 1, 3 and 4 in Part A of Annex VIII or fresh meat referred to in paragraph 6 or produced from animals reared and/or slaughtered outside the vaccination zone are processed in the establishment; (c) all such fresh meat shall bear the health mark in accordance with Chapter XI of Annex I to Directive 64/433/EEC or in the case of meat from other biungulates the health mark provided for in Chapter III of Annex I to Directive 91/495/EEC, or in the case of minced meat and meat preparations the health mark provided for in Chapter VI of Annex I to Directive 94/65/EC; (d) throughout the production process the fresh meat shall be clearly identified, and transported and stored separately from meat which is of different animal health status in accordance with this Directive. 9.
By way of derogation from paragraph 7, fresh meat from vaccinated porcine animals and their non-vaccinated seropositive offspring, produced during the period from the beginning of the survey until the measures provided for in Article 57 have been completed in the entire vaccination zone and until at least 3 months have elapsed after the last outbreak recorded in that zone, may only be placed on the national market of the Member State of origin within and outside the vaccination zone under the following conditions: (a) the establishment shall be operated under strict veterinary control; (b) only fresh meat from animals originating in holdings complying with the conditions in Article 57(5) or fresh meat obtained from animals reared and slaughtered outside the vaccination zone are processed in the establishment; (c) all such fresh meat shall bear a health mark to be decided in accordance with Article 4(3) of Directive 2002/99/EC; (d) throughout the production process the fresh meat shall be clearly identified, and transported and stored separately from meat of different animal health status in accordance with this Directive. 10.
A Member State other than the Member State referred to in paragraph 9 may request a decision in accordance with the procedure provided for in Article 89(3) to extend the marketing of the meat referred to in paragraph 9 to its territory or part of its territory under conditions to be laid down under the same procedure. 11.
The rules for dispatch from the vaccination zone of fresh meat from vaccinated porcine animals produced after the period referred to in paragraph 9 until free status has been regained in accordance with Article 61, shall be decided in accordance with the procedure provided for in Article 89(3). 12.
Compliance with the conditions provided for in paragraph 6, paragraph 8 and where applicable under the provisions of paragraph 10, shall be certified by the competent authority for fresh meat intended for intra-Community trade.
The competent authority shall supervise the control of compliance undertaken by the local veterinary authorities and shall in the case of intra-Community trade communicate to other Member States and the Commission a list of those establishments which they have approved for such certification. 13.
By way of derogation from paragraph 8 a special health mark which cannot be confused with the health mark referred to in paragraphs 8(c) and 9(c), may be decided in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 89(3) for fresh meat of ruminants not subjected to the treatment in accordance with Part A of Annex VIII, and minced meat and meat preparations produced from such meat, which are intended for placing on the market in the a specific region of the Member State of origin. 14.
Milk and milk products produced from vaccinated animals may be placed on the market within and outside the vaccination zone, provided that depending on the final use for either human consumption or non-human consumption it has undergone at least one of the treatments referred to in Parts A and B of Annex IX.
The collection and transport of samples of raw milk of animals of susceptible species, from holdings situated in the surveillance zone to a laboratory other than a veterinary diagnostic laboratory approved for diagnosis of foot-and-mouth disease, and the processing of the milk in such laboratories, shall be subject to official authorisation and to appropriate measures to avoid any possible spread of foot-and-mouth disease virus. 16.
The placing on the market of products of animal origin other than those referred to in paragraphs 6 to 11 and 13 to 15 shall be subject to the conditions provided for in Articles 30, 31, 32 and 42.
SECTION 9 RECOVERY OF THE FOOT-AND-MOUTH DISEASE AND INFECTION FREE STATUS Article 59 Recovery of the foot-and-mouth disease and infection free status The foot-and-mouth disease and infection free status of a Member State or a region thereof shall be recovered in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 89(3), taking into account the conditions referred to in Articles 60 and 61.
Article 60 Recovery of status following eradication of foot-and-mouth disease without emergency vaccination 1.
A Member State or region of a Member State regionalised in accordance with Article 45 shall recover its previous foot-and-mouth disease and infection free status following the control and eradication of one or more outbreaks of foot-and-mouth disease without vaccination under the following conditions: (a) all the measures provided for in Articles 36 and 44 have been completed, and (b) at least one of the following conditions applies: (i) the relevant recommendations in the foot-and-mouth disease Chapter, as last amended, of the Animal Health Code of the OIE are met; (ii) at least three months have elapsed after the last recorded outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease and clinical and laboratory surveillance carried out in accordance with Annex III has confirmed the absence of infection with the foot-and-mouth disease virus in the Member State or region concerned. 2.
Decisions on recovering a foot-and-mouth disease and infection-free status shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to Article 89(3).
A Member State or region of a Member State regionalised in accordance with Article 45 shall recover its previous foot-and-mouth disease and infection free status following the control and eradication of one or more outbreaks of foot-and-mouth disease with vaccination under the following conditions: (a) all the measures provided for in Articles 36, 44, 54, 55, 56 and 57 have been completed, and (b) at least one of the following conditions applies: (i) the relevant recommendations in the foot-and-mouth disease Chapter, as last amended, of the Animal Health Code of the OIE are met; (ii) at least three months have elapsed since the slaughter of the last vaccinated animal and serological surveillance has been carried out in accordance with the guidelines established in accordance with Article 70(3); (iii) at least six months have elapsed since the last outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease or the completion of emergency vaccination, what ever event occurred later, and in accordance with the guidelines established in accordance with Article 70(3), a serological survey based on the detection of antibodies against non-structural proteins of the foot-and-mouth disease virus has demonstrated the absence of infection in vaccinated animals. 2.
Decisions on recovering a foot-and-mouth and infection-free status shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to Article 89(3).
Article 62 Modifications of measures to recover the foot-and-mouth disease and infection-free status 1.
By way of derogation from Article 60 it may be decided in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 89(3), to withdraw the restrictions applied in accordance with this Directive after the requirements provided for in Articles 36 and 44 have been met and the clinical and serological survey has been completed and confirmed the absence of foot-and-mouth disease virus infection. 2.
By way of derogation from Article 61 it may be decided in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 89(3), to withdraw the restrictions applied in accordance with this Directive after the clinical and serological survey provided for in Article 56 and the measures provided for in Article 57 have been completed and confirmed the absence of foot-and-mouth disease virus infection. 3.
Without prejudice to paragraphs 1 and 2 it may be decided in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 89(3) that no animals of a susceptible species shall be removed from the territory or region of the Member State where the outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease has occurred to another Member State until the foot-and-mouth disease and infection free status is recovered in accordance with the conditions of the Animal Health Code of the OIE, unless such animals: (a) have not been vaccinated and are consigned directly to a slaughter house for immediate slaughter; or (b) have been isolated for at least 30 days immediately prior to loading and have undergone a serological test for the detection of antibody against foot-and-mouth disease virus structural proteins, carried out with negative results on samples taken during the 10 days prior to loading. 4.
Without prejudice to paragraph 2 it may be decided in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 89(3) that until the foot-and-mouth disease and infection free status is recovered in accordance with the conditions of the Animal Health Code of the OIE the radius of the surveillance area around the vaccination zone referred to in Article 52(2) shall be reduced after the completion with satisfactory results of the measures provided for in Article 57.
Article 63 Certification of animals of susceptible species and products derived from such animals for intra-Community trade Member States shall ensure that additional certification for intra-Community trade in animals of susceptible species or products derived from such animals required in accordance with this Directive shall be continued until the foot-and-mouth disease and infection free status of the Member State or part of the territory of a Member State has been recovered in accordance with Articles 60 and 61.
Article 64 Movement of vaccinated animals of susceptible species after the recovery of the foot-and-mouth disease and infection-free status 1.
By way of derogation from the prohibition in paragraph 1, it may be decided in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 89(2) to adopt specific measures with regard to vaccinated animals of susceptible species kept in zoos and included in a programme for wildlife conservation or kept on premises for farm animal resources that have been listed by the competent authorities as breeding nucleus of animals indispensable for the survival of the breed, subject to appropriate provisions in the Animal Health Code of the OIE.
CHAPTER III PREVENTATIVE MEASURES SECTION 10 LABORATORIES AND ESTABLISHMENTS HANDLING FOOT-AND-MOUTH DISEASE VIRUS Article 65 Laboratories and establishments handling live foot-and-mouth disease virus Member States shall ensure that: (a) laboratories and establishments in which live foot-and-mouth disease virus, its genome, antigens or vaccines produced from such antigens are handled for research, diagnosis or manufacture are strictly controlled by the competent authorities; (b) the handling of live foot-and-mouth disease virus for research and diagnosis is carried out only in approved laboratories listed in Part A of Annex XI; (c) the handling of live foot-and-mouth disease virus for the manufacturing of either inactivated antigens for the production of vaccines or vaccines and related research is carried out only in the approved establishments and laboratories listed in Part B of Annex XI; (d) the laboratories and establishments referred to in points (b) and (c) are operated at least according to the bio-security standards set out in Annex XII.
Article 66 Checks of laboratories and establishments handling live foot-and-mouth disease virus Veterinary experts from the Commission, in collaboration with the competent authorities of the Member States, shall carry out spot-checks to ascertain whether the security systems applied in the establishments and laboratories referred to in Parts A and B of Annex XI comply with the bio-security standards set out in Annex XII.
Article 67 Modification of the list of approved laboratories and establishments handling live foot-and-mouth disease virus 1.
The list of establishments and laboratories in Part A and B of Annex XI may be amended in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 89(3), in the light of the spot-checks provided for in Article 66. 2.
The list of establishments and laboratories in Part A and B of Annex XI shall be regularly updated based on written information submitted by the Member States, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 89(2).
Article 68 National Laboratories 1.
Member States shall ensure that: (a) laboratory testing for foot-and-mouth disease is carried out in laboratories authorised for such testing by the competent authorities; (b) laboratory testing to confirm the presence of foot-and-mouth disease virus or other vesicular disease viruses is carried out in accordance with Article 71 by one of the laboratories listed in Part A of Annex XI; (c) one of the laboratories listed in Part A of Annex XI shall be designated as the national reference laboratory for the Member State on whose territory it is situated, and it shall be responsible for coordinating standards and methods of diagnosis in that Member State; (d) the national reference laboratory carries out at least the functions and duties set out in Annex XV; (e) the national reference laboratory referred to in point (c) liases with the Community Reference Laboratory provided for in Article 69 and in particular ensures the sending of appropriate samples to the Community Reference Laboratory. 2.
Article 69 Community Reference Laboratory 1.
The Community Reference Laboratory shall be designated in agreement with the laboratory concerned and in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 89(2), for a period to be determined under that procedure. 2.
Article 70 Security standards and guidelines for surveillance, code of conduct for approved laboratories and establishments handling live foot-and-mouth disease virus 1.
An Operational Manual for Minimum Standards for Laboratories working with the foot-and-mouth disease virus in vitro and in vivo may be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 89(2). 2.
Guidelines for the surveillance required to recover the foot-and-mouth disease and infection free status may be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 89(2). 3.
A uniform code of good conduct for the security systems applied in the establishments and laboratories listed in Parts A and B of Annex XI may be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 89(2).
SECTION 11 DIAGNOSIS OF FOOT-AND-MOUTH DISEASE Article 71 Standards and tests for the diagnosis of foot-and-mouth disease and for the differential diagnosis of other vesicular diseases 1.
A decision regarding the suitable arrangements for the purchase, storage and supply to national laboratories of sufficient quantities of specific reagents or diagnostic tests in case of an emergency, in particular with regard to the measures provided for in Article 56(3) may be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 89(2). 3.
An Operational Manual for the diagnosis of foot-and-mouth disease and the differential diagnosis of vesicular diseases other than swine vesicular disease may be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 89(2).
SECTION 12 CONTINGENCY PLANS AND REAL TIME ALERT EXERCISES Article 72 Contingency plans 1.
The contingency plan shall provide for measures to be implemented in the event of a worst case scenario as referred to in point 12 of Annex XVII and shall give indications of: (a) the vaccine requirements considered necessary in the event of emergency vaccination, and (b) the regions containing densely populated livestock areas, taking into account the criteria set down in Annex X. 4.
Those criteria and requirements may be amended taking into account the specific nature of foot-and-mouth disease and progress made in the development of disease control and environmental protection measures in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 89(2). 6.
The Commission shall examine the contingency plans in order to determine whether they permit the objective provided for in paragraph 1 to be attained and shall suggest to the Member State concerned any amendments required, in particular to ensure that such plans are compatible with those of the other Member States. 7.
The contingency plans shall be approved in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 89(2). 8.
Member States shall ensure that significant modifications in their approved contingency plans are notified to the Commission without delay. 9.
The revised contingency plans may subsequently be approved in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 89(2), to take into account developments in the situation. 10.
In any case, every five years each Member State shall update its contingency plan in particular in the light of real-time alert exercises referred to in Article 73, and submit it to the Commission for approval in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 89(2).
Article 73 Real-time alert exercises 1.
Member States shall ensure that real-time alert exercises are carried out in accordance with their approved contingency plan and Annex XVII. 2.
Member States shall ensure that, where possible and practical, real-time alert exercises are carried out in close collaboration with the competent authorities of neighbouring Member States or third countries. 3.
That information shall be submitted to the Commission as part of the information required in Article 8 of Directive 64/432/EEC.
SECTION 13 CONTROL CENTRES AND EXPERT GROUPS Article 74 National/Central disease control centres - Functions and duties 1.
Member States shall ensure that a fully functional national/central disease control centre may be immediately established in the event of foot-and-mouth disease outbreaks. 2.
The national/central disease control centre shall first of all direct and monitor the operations of local disease control centres as provided for in Article 76.
Certain functions originally attributed to the national/central disease control centre may subsequently be transferred to the local disease control centre operated at the administrative level provided for in Article 2(2)(p) of Directive 64/432/EEC or higher provided that the tasks of the national disease control centre are not compromised. 3.
The national/central disease control centre shall be at least responsible for: (a) designing the necessary control measures; (b) ensuring the prompt and efficient implementation of those measures by the local disease control centres; (c) deploying staff and other resources to local disease control centres; (d) providing information to the Commission, to the competent authorities of other Member States and other national authorities including competent environmental authorities and bodies, as well as veterinary, agricultural and trading organisations and bodies; (e) organising an emergency vaccination campaign and also the delimitation of vaccination zones; (f) liasing with diagnostic laboratories; (g) liasing with competent environmental authorities to coordinate the actions on veterinary and environmental safety; (h) liasing with the media; (i) liasing with the enforcement bodies to ensure adequate implementation of specific legal measures.
Article 75 National/Central disease control centres - Technical requirements 1.
The means referred to in paragraph 1 shall include at least the following: (a) a herd identifier and animal location system, preferably computerised; (b) all suitable means of communication including telephones, fax and if possible facilities for communication with the media; (c) a communication system allowing exchange of information with the local disease control centres, the laboratories and other relevant organisations, preferably computerised; (d) maps and other sources of information that can be used in directing control measures; (e) a shared daily journal which shall be maintained to record in chronological order all the events associated with an outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease and allowing different activities to be linked and coordinated; (f) lists of national and international organisations and laboratories that are interested in an outbreak of foot-and-mouth and shall be contacted in such an event; (g) lists of staff and other persons who may be called upon immediately to serve at local disease control centres or in expert groups provided for in Article 78 in the event of an outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease; (h) lists of competent environmental protection authorities and bodies to contact in the event of an outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease; (i) maps identifying appropriate processing site areas; (j) lists of treatment and processing undertakings authorised to treat or process animal carcasses and animal waste that could be commissioned in the event of an outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease, in particular, indicating their capacity, address and other contact details; (k) lists of measures to monitor and control disinfectant run-off as well as body tissue and fluid displacement into the surrounding environment as a result of carcass decomposition, particularly into surface waters and groundwaters.
Article 76 Local disease control centres - set-up, functions and duties 1.
Member States shall ensure the local disease control centres act in close coordination and cooperation with the national/central disease control centre, in particular in relation to the measures provided for in Article 74(3)(b). 4.
Article 77 Local disease control centres - Technical requirements 1.
The local disease control centres shall have at least: (a) one telephone line reserved for communication with the national disease control centre accessible phone lines where farmers and other rural residents can obtain recent, accurate information about the measures taken; (b) field staff equipped with necessary tools for communication and effective management of all necessary data; (c) a record system, preferably computer-based, connected to the national disease control centre and to all necessary databases, laboratories and other organisations; (d) a shared daily journal which shall be maintained to record in chronological order all the events associated with an outbreak of foot-and-mouth and allowing different activities to be linked and coordinated; (e) up-to-date lists of persons, including private veterinarians, and local organisations in each region who shall be contacted and may be involved in the event of an outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease; (f) up-to-date lists of holdings to which the provisions of Article 15 and 18 may be applied in the case of an outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease; (g) up-to-date inventories of possible burning or burial places for animals killed in accordance with this Directive and to be processed in accordance with Community and national legislation on the protection of the environment; (h) up-to-date list of competent environmental authorities in each region, as well as other environmental bodies who must be contacted and are to be involved in the event of an outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease; (i) maps identifying suitable disposal sites for burial of carcasses that will not present a risk of harm to the environment, in particular to surface waters or groundwaters; (j) list of treatment and disposal undertakings authorised to treat or dispose of animal carcasses and animal waste; (k) list of measures to monitor and control disinfectant run-off as well as body tissue and fluid displacement into the surrounding environment as a result of carcass decomposition, particularly into surface waters and groundwaters.
Article 78 Expert Group 1.
These arrangements shall be detailed in the contingency plans referred to in Article 72. 2.
SECTION 14 ANTIGEN AND VACCINE BANKS Article 79 National antigen and vaccine banks 1.
Article 80 Community antigen and vaccine bank 1.
A Community antigen and vaccine bank shall be established in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 89(2). 2.
The information on quantities and subtypes of antigens or authorised vaccines stored in the Community antigen and vaccine bank shall be treated as classified information and in particular shall not be published. 4.
The conditions and guarantees referred to in paragraph 4(a) to (c) may be amended in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 89(3).
Article 81 Supply and storage of concentrated inactivated antigen The Commission shall ensure that the contracted manufacturer of the concentrated inactivated antigen supplied to the Community antigen and vaccine bank, guaranties conditions for the supply and storage of concentrated inactivated antigen of the foot-and-mouth disease virus at least equivalent to those laid down in point 1 of Annex XIV.
The Commission shall ensure that the contracted manufacturer of the concentrated inactivated antigen supplied to the Community antigen and vaccine bank guaranties conditions for the formulation, finishing, bottling, labelling and delivery of vaccines reconstituted from antigens referred to in Article 81 at least equivalent to those laid down in point 2 of Annex XIV. 2.
Article 83 Access to the Community antigen and vaccine bank 1.
Member States shall have access to the Community antigen and vaccine bank following a request to the Commission.
Without prejudice to agreements concluded between the Community and third countries, access of third countries to the Community antigen and vaccine bank shall be authorised in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 89(2), subject to detailed arrangements between the Commission and the third country concerned on the financial and technical cooperation to be adopted under that procedure. 4.
Article 84 Testing of foot-and-mouth disease vaccines 1.
The Commission shall be responsible for arranging independent testing for potency and innocuity of vaccines reconstituted from antigen stored in the Community antigen and vaccine bank, and of vaccines reconstituted from other antigens and intended for use within the framework of Community assistance to control measures against foot-and-mouth disease in third countries in accordance with Articles 82(2) and 83(3). 2.
If necessary, the Community Coordinating Institute shall be designated, and detailed rules on its functions, responsibilities and Community financial contributions shall be adopted, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 89(2). 3.
SECTION 15 FOOT-AND-MOUTH DISEASE IN OTHER SPECIES Article 85 Additional measures to prevent and control foot-and-mouth disease 1.
Detailed rules for the control measures to be applied by Member States may be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 89(2). 2.
Detailed rules for the control of foot-and-mouth disease in animals referred to in Article 2(a) second sentence may be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 89(2). 3.
Immediately after the competent authority of a Member State has information that wild animals are suspected of being infected with foot-and-mouth disease, it shall take all appropriate measures to confirm or rule out the presence of the disease by investigations of all wild animals of susceptible species shot or found dead, including laboratory testing.
As soon as the competent authority of a Member State has confirmation of a primary case of foot-and-mouth disease in wild animals, it shall immediately apply the measures provided for in Part A of Annex XVIII in order to reduce the spread of disease, and shall draw up a plan for the eradication of foot-and-mouth disease in accordance with Part B of Annex XVIII.
CHAPTER IV IMPLEMENTING MEASURES Article 86 Penalties The Member States shall lay down the rules on penalties applicable to infringements of the national provisions adopted pursuant to this Directive and shall take all measures necessary to ensure that they are implemented.
The Member States shall notify those provisions to the Commission by the date specified in Article 93(1) at the latest and shall notify it without delay of any subsequent amendment affecting them.
Detailed rules for the implementation of Articles 75(2) and 77(2) may be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 89(2). 2.
Further detailed rules for the implementation of this Directive may be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 89(2). 3.
The Annexes to this Directive may be amended in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 89(2) or, in the case of Annex XI, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 89(3).
Article 88 Procedure for the adoption of ad hoc epidemiological measures Where, in implementing the measures provided for by this Directive, a Member State determines that a measure is not adapted to the epidemiological situation, or where the foot-and-mouth disease virus appears to be spreading despite the measures taken in accordance with this Directive, a Decision may be adopted on an ad hoc basis in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 89(3) to authorise that Member State to implement alternative measures with equivalent epidemiological effect for a limited period of time appropriate to the epidemiological situation.
The Commission shall be assisted by the Standing Committee on the Food Chain and Animal Health established by Regulation (EC) No 178/2002. 2.
CHAPTER V TRANSITIONAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS Article 90 Amendment to Directive 92/46/EEC In point 4(b) of Chapter I of Annex A to Council Directive 92/46/EEC, the second subparagraph is deleted.
Article 91 Repeals 1.
Article 92 Transitional provisions 1.
Transitional provisions may be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 89(2) for a period of five years from the date of entry into force of this Directive. 2.
Within six months after the date referred to in Article 94, Member States shall submit to the Commission amended contingency plans to take into account the provisions of Article 72.
Those amended contingency plans shall be approved in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 89(2).
They shall apply these provisions as from 1 July 2004.
Article 94 Entry into force This Directive shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Article 95 Addressees This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 29 September 2003.
Alemanno The President (1) Proposal of 18 December 2002. (2) Opinion delivered on 15 May 2003 (not yet published in the Official Journal). (3) Opinion delivered on 14 May 2003 (not yet published in the Official Journal). (4) Opinion delivered on 2 July 2003 (not yet published in the Official Journal). (5) OJ L 378, 31.12.1982, p. 58.
Directive as last amended by Commission Decision 2000/556/EC (OJ L 235, 19.9.2000, p. 27). (6) OJ L 315, 26.11.1985, p. 11.
Directive as last amended by the 2003 Act of Accession. (7) OJ L 224, 18.8.1990, p. 13. (8) OJ L 268, 24.9.1991, p. 56.
Directive as last amended by Directive 96/43/EC (OJ L 162, 1.7.1996, p. 1). (9) OJ L 373, 31.12.1990, p. 1.
Directive as last amended by Directive 96/43/EC (OJ L 162, 1.7.1996, p. 1). (10) OJ L 224, 18.8.1990, p. 29.
Directive as last amended by Directive 2002/33/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 315, 19.11.2002, p. 149). (11) OJ L 395, 30.12.1989, p. 13.
Directive as last amended by Directive 92/118/EEC (OJ L 62, 15.3.1993, p. 49). (12) OJ C 21 E, 24.1.2002, p. 339. (13) OJ L 31, 1.2.2002, p. 1. (14) OJ L 167, 7.7.2000, p. 22. (15) OJ L 340, 31.12.1993, p. 21. (16) OJ L 273, 10.10.2002, p. 1.
Regulation as last amended by Commission Regulation (EC) No 808/2003 (OJ L 117, 13.5.2003, p. 1). (17) OJ L 257, 10.10.1996, p. 26. (18) OJ L 123, 24.4.1998, p. 1. (19) OJ L 194, 22.7.1988, p. 10.
Directive as last amended by the 2003 Act of Accession. (20) OJ L 302, 19.10.1989, p. 1.
Directive as last amended by Commission Decision 94/113/EC (OJ L 53, 24.2.1994, p. 23). (21) OJ L 268, 14.9.1992, p. 54.
Directive as last amended by Commission Regulation (EC) No 1282/2002 (OJ L 187, 16.7.2002, p. 13). (22) OJ L 224, 18.8.1990, p. 42.
Directive as last amended by Commission Decision 2002/160/EC (OJ L 53, 23.2.2002, p. 37). (23) OJ L 121, 29.7.1964, p. 2012/64.
Directive as last amended by Directive 95/23/EC (OJ L 243, 11.10.1995, p. 7). (24) OJ L 26, 31.1.1977, p. 85.
Directive as last amended by Directive 97/76/EC (OJ L 10, 16.1.1998, p. 25). (25) OJ L 47, 21.2.1980, p. 4.
Directive as last amended by the 2003 Act of Accession. (26) OJ L 268, 24.9.1991, p. 41.
Directive as last amended by Directive 94/65/EC (OJ L 368, 31.12.1994, p. 10). (27) OJ L 368, 31.12.1994, p. 10. (28) OJ L 18, 23.1.2003, p. 11.
Directive as last amended by the 2003 Act of Accession. (29) OJ L 18, 23.1.2003, p. 11. (30) OJ L 268, 14.9.1992, p. 1.
Directive as last amended by Directive 94/71/EC (OJ L 368, 31.12.1994, p. 33). (31) OJ L 62, 15.3.1993, p. 49.
Directive as last amended by Commission Decision 2003/42/EC (OJ L 13, 18.1.2003, p. 24). (32) OJ L 326, 22.12.2000, p. 80.
Decision as last amended by Decision 2002/807/EC (OJ L 279, 17.10.2002, p. 50). (33) OJ L 368, 21.12.1991, p. 21.
Decision as last amended by Decision 2001/181/EC (OJ L 66, 8.3.2001, p. 39). (34) OJ L 311, 28.11.2001, p. 1. (35) OJ L 213, 24.8.1993, p. 20.
Decision as last amended by Decision 2001/96/EC (OJ L 35, 6.2.2001, p. 52). (36) OJ L 224, 18.8.1990, p. 19.
Decision as last amended by Decision 2001/572/EC (OJ L 203, 28.7.2001, p. 16). (37) OJ L 38, 12.2.1998, p. 10. (38) OJ L 184, 17.7.1999, p. 23. (39) OJ L 311, 28.11.2001, p. 1. (40) OJ L 279, 28.9.1989, p. 32. (41) OJ L 368, 31.12.1991, p. 19.
Within 24 hours from the confirmation of each primary outbreak or case in premises or means of transport referred to in Article 16, the Member State concerned must notify by means of the Animal Disease Notification System established in accordance with Article 5 of Directive 82/894/EEC: (a) date of dispatch; (b) time of dispatch; (c) country of origin; (d) name of disease and type of virus, where appropriate; (e) serial number of outbreak; (f) type of outbreak; (g) reference number of outbreak linked to this outbreak; (h) region and geographical location of the holding; (i) other region affected by restrictions; (j) date of confirmation and method used for confirmation; (k) date of suspicion; (l) date of estimation of first infection; (m) origin of disease, as far as can be indicated; (n) disease control measures taken. 2.
In case of primary outbreaks or cases in premises or means of transport referred to in Article 16, in addition to the data referred to in point 1, the Member State concerned must also forward the following information: (a) the number of animals of each susceptible species in the outbreak, or premises and means of transport referred to in Article 16; (b) for each species and type (breeding, fattening, slaughter, etc.), the number of dead animals of susceptible species on the holding, slaughterhouse or means of transport; (c) for each type (breeding, fattening, slaughter, etc.), the morbidity of the disease and the number of animals of susceptible species in which foot-and-mouth disease has been confirmed; (d) the number of animals of susceptible species killed in the outbreak, slaughterhouse or means of transport; (e) the number of carcasses processed and disposed of; (f) the distance of the outbreak from the nearest holding on which animals of susceptible species are kept; (g) if foot-and-mouth disease was confirmed in a slaughterhouse or means of transport, the location of the holding or holdings of origin of the infected animals or carcasses. 3.
The Member State concerned shall ensure that the information to be provided in relation to any outbreak or case of foot-and-mouth disease in a holding, slaughterhouse or means of transport in accordance with points 1, 2 and 3 is followed as soon as possible by a written report to the Commission and the other Member States including at least: (a) the date on which the animals of susceptible species on the holding, slaughterhouse or means of transport were killed and their carcasses processed; (b) the results of the tests carried out on samples taken when animals of susceptible species were killed; (c) where the derogation provided for in Article 18 has been applied, the number of animals of susceptible animals killed and processed and where applicable the number of animals of susceptible species which are to be slaughtered at a later date and the time limit laid down for their slaughter; (d) any information relating to the possible origin of the disease or the origin of the disease if this has been ascertained; (e) in the case of a primary outbreak or a case of foot-and-mouth disease in a slaughterhouse or means of transport, the genetic type of virus responsible for the outbreak or the case; (f) in cases where animals of susceptible species have been killed in contact holdings or in holdings containing animals of susceptible species suspected of being infected with foot-and-mouth disease virus, information on: (i) the date of killing and the number of animals of susceptible species of each category killed in each holding and in cases where animals of susceptible species in contact holdings were not killed, information must be provided on the reasons for this decision, (ii) the epidemiological link between the outbreak or case of foot-and-mouth disease and each contact holding or the reasons that have induced suspicion of foot-and-mouth disease in each suspected holding, (iii) the results of the laboratory tests carried out on the samples taken from the animals of susceptible species in the holdings and when they were killed. 5.
Holdings must undergo clinical examinations of all animals of susceptible species for signs or symptoms of foot-and-mouth disease. 1.2.
Special emphasis must be laid on animals which may have been exposed to foot-and-mouth disease virus with a high probability, notably transport from holdings at risk or close contact to persons or equipment that had close contact to holdings at risk. 1.3.
The clinical examination must take into account the transmission of foot-and-mouth disease, including the incubation period referred to in Article 2(h) and the way in which animals of susceptible species are kept. 1.4.
General provisions 2.1.1.
from holdings in all administrative units within the perimeter of the zone where sheep and goats have not been in direct and close contact with bovine animals during a period of at least 30 days prior to taking the samples, and 2.4.2.
For monitoring the areas outside the zones established in accordance with the provisions of Article 21, and in particular to substantiate the absence of infection in the sheep and goat population which is not in close and direct contact with non-vaccinated bovine or porcine animals, a sampling protocol recommended for monitoring purposes by the OIE or a sampling protocol as provided for in paragraph 2.4 shall be applied with the difference compared to paragraph 2.4.2 that the estimated herd prevalence shall be set at 1 %. 3.
The number of samples calculated in accordance with requirements in paragraphs 2.2, 2.3 and 2.4.3 shall be increased in order to take into account the established diagnostic sensitivity of the test employed.
ANNEX IV PRINCIPLES AND PROCEDURES FOR CLEANSING AND DISINFECTION 1.
Cleansing and disinfection operations as provided for in Article 11 shall be carried out under official supervision and in accordance with the instructions given by the official veterinarian. 1.2.
The disinfectants to be used and their concentrations shall be officially recognised by the competent authority to ensure destruction of foot-and-mouth virus. 1.3.
The used disinfectant shall remain on the surface for at least 24 hours. 2.2.
The solid phase of manure and used bedding should be stacked to heat, preferably by adding 100 kg granulated quick lime on 1 m3 manure, ensuring a temperature of at least 70 C throughout the stack, sprayed with disinfectant and left for at least 42 days, during which the stack should be either covered or re-stacked to ensure thermic treatment of all layers. 3.2.
The liquid phase of manure and slurry should be stored for at least 42 days after the last addition of infective material.
This period may be extended if the slurry has been heavily contaminated or during adverse weather conditions.
This period may be shortened if disinfectant has been added so as to alter the pH sufficiently throughout the substance to destroy the foot-and-mouth disease virus. 4.
Special cases 4.1.
By way of derogation from points 2.1 and 2.2, in case of open-air holdings, the competent authority may establish specific procedures for cleaning and disinfection, taking into account the type of holding and the climatic conditions. 4.3.
General principles 1.1.
the competent authorities must be satisfied that any possible residual foot-and-mouth disease virus can be detected in the animals intended for restocking either on the base of clinical signs, in the case of bovine or porcine animals, or though laboratory investigations in the case of other species susceptible to foot-and-mouth disease, carried out at the end of the observation period specified in paragraph 1.3; 1.2.3.
in order to ensure an adequate immune response referred to in paragraph 1.2.2 in the animals intend for restocking, the animals must: 1.2.3.1.
either originate in and come from a holding situated in an area of at least 10 km radius centred on that holding where there was no outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease for at least 30 days, or 1.2.3.2.
the animals have been tested with negative results in an assay as described in Annex XIII for the detection of antibodies against the foot-and-mouth disease virus carried out on samples taken prior to introduction onto the holding. 1.3.
The restocking procedure shall be considered completed when the measures provided for in point 1.3.5 have been completed with negative results. 2.
Restocking in connection with emergency vaccination 3.1.
Restocking in a vaccination zone established in accordance with Article 52 shall be carried out either in accordance with paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Annex or in accordance with Article 58(2) or (4)(a), (c) and (d). 3.2.
The competent authorities may authorise the restocking of holdings situated outside the vaccination zone with vaccinated animals after the completion of the measures provided for in Article 61 and under the following conditions: 3.2.1.
Recommended additional measures 2.1.
the use of equidae kept on holdings in the protection and surveillance zone not keeping animals of susceptible animals may be authorised in the protection zone, subject to appropriate cleansing and disinfection measures, and may not be restricted on premises situated in the surveillance zone; 2.2.2.2.
Hides and skins complying with the requirements in Article 20 and points A(2)(c) or (d) of Chapter VI of Annex VIII to Regulation (EC) No 1774/2002. 3.
Sheep wool, ruminant hair and pig bristles complying with the requirements in Article 20 and point A(1) of Chapter VI of Annex VIII to Regulation (EC) No 1774/2002. 4.
Products derived from animals of susceptible species which have undergone: (a) either a heat treatment in a hermetically sealed container with an Fo value of 3,00 or more; or (b) a heat treatment in which the centre temperature is raised to at least 70 C for at least 60 minutes. 5.
Blood and blood products of animals of susceptible species used for technical purposes, including pharmaceuticals, in vitro diagnostics and laboratory reagents which have undergone at least one of the treatments referred to in point B(3) (e) (ii) of Chapter IV of Annex VIII to Regulation (EC) No 1774/2002. 6.
Lard and rendered fats which have undergone the heat treatment referred to in point B(2) (d) (iv) of Chapter IV of Annex VII to Regulation (EC) No 1774/2002. 7.
Petfood and dogchews which comply with the requirements of points B(2), (3) or (4) of Chapter II of Annex VIII to Regulation (EC) No 1774/2002. 8.
Game trophies of ungulates which comply with the requirements of points A(1), (3) or (4) of Chapter VII of Annex VIII to Regulation (EC) No 1774/2002. 9.
Straw and forage which (a) either has undergone the action of (i) steam in a closed chamber for at least 10 minutes and at a minimum temperature of 80 C, or (ii) formalin fumes (formaldehyde gas) produced in a chamber kept closed for at least 8 hours and at a minimum temperature of 19 C, using commercial-type solutions at 35-40 % concentration, or (b) has been stored in package or bales under shelter at premises situated not closer than 2 km to the nearest outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease and is not released from the premises before at least three months have elapsed following the completion of cleansing and disinfection measures provided for in Article 11 and in any case not before the end of the restrictions in the protection zone.
Maturation: - maturation of carcasses at a temperature of more than + 2 C for at least 24 hours; - pH value in the middle of Longissimus dorsi muscle recorded as less than 6,0. 4.
Necessary precautions must be taken to avoid contact of the milk or milk products with any potential source of foot-and-mouth virus after processing. 1.
sterilisation at a level of at least F03; 1.2.
UHT(1) treatment; 1.3.
HTST(2) treatment applied twice to milk with a pH equal to or above 7,0; 1.4.
HTST treatment of milk with a pH below 7,0; 1.5.
HTST combined with another physical treatment by: 1.5.1.
either lowering the pH below 6 for at least one hour, or 1.5.2.
additional heating to 72 C or more, combined with desiccation. 2.
Milk products must either undergo one of the above treatments or be produced from milk treated in accordance with paragraph 1. 3.
Any other treatment shall be decided in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 89(2), in particular in relation to raw milk products undergoing an extended period of ripening including a lowering of the pH below 6.
sterilisation at a level of at least F03; 1.2.
HTST(4) applied twice; 1.4.
HTST combined with another physical treatment by: 1.4.1.
either lowering the pH below 6 for at least one hour, or 1.4.2.
additional heating to 72 C or more, combined with desiccation. 2.
Milk products must either undergo one of the above treatments or be produced from milk treated in accordance with paragraph 1. 3.
Whey to be fed to animals of susceptible species and produced from milk treated as described in paragraph 1 must be collected at least 16 hours after milk clotting and its pH must be recorded as %amp%lt; 6.0 before transport to pig holdings. (1) UHT= Ultra-High Temperature treatment at 132 C for at least one second. (2) HTST= High Temperature Short Time pasteurisation at 72 C for at least 15 seconds or equivalent pasteurisation effect achieving a negative reaction to a phosphatase test. (3) UHT= Ultra High Temperature treatment at 132 C for at least one second. (4) HTST= High Temperature Short Time pasteurisation at 72 C for at least 15 seconds or equivalent pasteurisation effect achieving a negative reaction to a phosphatase test.
The definition may be modified in the light of new scientific evidence in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 89(2). 3.2.
The laboratories and establishments handling live foot-and-mouth disease virus must meet or exceed the minimum requirements laid down in the %quot%Minimum standards for Laboratories working with foot-and-mouth virus in vitro and in vivo%quot% established by the European Commission for the control of foot-and-mouth disease, 26th session, Rome, April 1985, as modified in 1993. 2.
The inspection team shall comprise at least of - one expert from the Commission, - one expert in foot-and-mouth disease, - one independent expert for questions of bio-security in laboratories working with microbiological hazards. 4.
The Commission may, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 89(2) decide to adopt more stringent testing procedures than those defined in the OIE Manual. 2.
Alternative procedures The use of tests defined in the OIE Manual as %quot%Alternative Tests%quot%, or other tests not included in the OIE Manual, is permitted provided that the performance of the test has been shown to match or exceed the sensitivity and specificity parameters laid down in the OIE Manual or in the annexes to Community legislation, whichever is the more stringent.
National Laboratories shall operate internal quality assurance programmes.
The Commission may consider the scientific advice produced by the meetings of the National Laboratories to be organised by the Community Reference Laboratory. 5.
Compliance procedure Data from standardisation and external quality assurance exercises organised by the Community Reference Laboratory shall be assessed at the annual meetings of the National Laboratories and communicated to the Commission for review of the list of National Laboratories as laid down in Part A of Annex XI.
Antigen detection The standards for detecting foot-and-mouth disease virus antigen shall be established in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 89(2) after consultation of the Community Reference Laboratory.
Virus isolation The standards for foot-and-mouth disease virus detection shall be established in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 89(2) after consultation of the Community Reference Laboratory.
Nucleic acid detection methods The standards for the detection of foot-and-mouth disease viral RNA shall be established in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 89(2) after consultation of the Community Reference Laboratory.
Antibody detection (structural proteins) The standards for the detection of antibody to foot-and-mouth disease virus shall be established in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 89(2) after consultation of the Community Reference Laboratory.
Antibody detection (non-structural proteins) The standards for the detection of antibody to foot-and-mouth disease virus shall be established in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 89(2) after consultation of the Community Reference Laboratory.
Swine vesicular disease (SVD) Diagnosis of SVD must be carried out in accordance with Decision 2000/428/EC. 3.
Other vesicular diseases Where necessary, the Commission may arrange that standards for the laboratory diagnosis of vesicular stomatitis or vesicular exanthema of swine are established in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 89(2).
ANNEX XIV COMMUNITY ANTIGEN AND VACCINE BANK 1.
ANNEX XV FUNCTIONS AND DUTIES OF NATIONAL LABORATORIES The functions and duties of National Laboratories referred to in Article 68 for foot-and-mouth and other vesicular diseases shall be as follows: 1.
All National Laboratories handling live foot-and-mouth disease virus must operate under high security conditions laid down in %quot%Minimum Standards for Laboratories working with foot-and-mouth disease virus in vitro and in vivo%quot%, European Commission for the Control of Foot-and-Mouth Disease - 26th Session, Rome, 1985, as amended by Appendix 6 (ii) of the Report of the 30th Session, Rome, 1993. 2.
National Laboratories must be equipped and skilled for large-scale serological surveillance. 5.
In anticipation of a suspicion of foot-and-mouth disease, the National Authority shall ensure that the necessary equipment and materials for sample collection and transportation to a National Laboratory are stored in readiness at local sites. 6.
National Laboratories should provide disease data to their State Veterinary Service, which shall provide these data to the Community Reference Laboratory. 8.
National Laboratories shall participate in external quality assurance and standardisation exercises organised by the Community Reference Laboratory. 11.
National Laboratories shall use tests and standards that meet or exceed the criteria laid down in Annex XIII.
National Laboratories shall provide the Commission on request with data proving that the tests in use meet or exceed the requirements. 12.
National Laboratories should have the competence to identify all vesicular disease viruses and encephalomyocarditis virus in order to avoid delays in diagnosis and consequently in implementing control measures by the competent authorities. 13.
regularly receiving field samples from Member States and countries geographically or commercially linked to the European Union in terms of trade in animals of susceptible species or products derived from such animals with a view to monitoring the disease situation globally and regionally, to estimating and where possible predicting the risk evolving from emerging virus strains and particular epidemiological situations and determining the identity of the virus, where necessary in close collaboration with OIE designated regional reference laboratory and the WRL; 1.2.
carrying out research studies with the objective of developing improved methods of disease control in collaboration with National Laboratories and as agreed in the annual work plan of the Community Reference Laboratory. 3.
To provide information and carry out further training, in particular by: 3.1.
gathering data and information on the methods of diagnosis and differential diagnosis used in National Laboratories and the distribution of such information to the Commission and the Member States; 3.2.
The Community Reference Laboratory shall operate according to recognised conditions of strict disease security as indicated in %quot%Minimum Standards for Laboratories working with foot-and-mouth disease virus in vitro and in vivo%quot%, European Commission for the control of foot-and-mouth disease - 26th Session, Rome, April 1985, as amended by Appendix 6 (ii) of the report to the 30th Session of the European Commission for the control of foot-and-mouth disease 1993, referred to in Annex XII to this Directive. 8.
The Community Reference Laboratory shall provide assistance to the Commission as required on the disease security measures to be taken by the National Laboratories in matters of foot-and-mouth disease diagnosis.
Provision must be made to ensure access to emergency funds, budgetary means and financial resources in order to cover all aspects of the fight against a foot-and-mouth disease epizootic. 3.
A permanently operational expert group shall be created, where necessary in collaboration with other Member States, to maintain expertise and assist the relevant authority in qualitative disease preparedness. 8.
one of the two exercises referred to in paragraph 11.2.1 is replaced by a real-time exercise required within the framework of contingency plans for other major epidemic diseases affecting terrestrial animals, or 11.2.4.
by way of derogation from paragraph 11.2.1 and subject to appropriate provisions in the contingency plan, Member States with a limited population of animals of susceptible species arrange for the participation in and contribution to real-time exercises carried out in a neighbouring Member States and alarm-drills are carried out as provided for in paragraph (g) (ii) of Annex VII of Directive 2001/89/EC in relation to all animals of species susceptible to foot-and-mouth disease. 11.3.
Such plans shall include the identification of appropriate sites and undertakings for the treatment or disposal of animal carcasses and animal waste in the event of an outbreak. 15.
ANNEX XVIII PART A Measures in case of confirmation of the presence of foot-and-mouth disease in wild animals 1.
Without prejudice to the measures laid down in Part A, Member States shall submit to the Commission within 90 days from the confirmation of the primary case of foot-and-mouth disease in wild animals a written plan of the measures taken to eradicate the disease in the area defined as infected and of the measures applied on the holdings in that area. 2.
The plan, if necessary with amendments, shall be approved in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 89(3).
The plan may subsequently be amended or supplemented to take account of developments in the situation.
If the amendments concern other provisions of the plan, Member States shall submit the amended plan to the Commission for examination and possible approval in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 89(3). 3.
This enquiry must include the completion of a questionnaire which supplies information about: (i) the geographical area where the animal was found dead or shot, (ii) the date on which the animal was found dead or shot, (iii) the person who found or shot the animal, (iv) the age and sex of the animal, (v) if shot: symptoms before shooting, (vi) if found dead: the state of the carcass, (vii) laboratory findings; (m) surveillance programmes and prevention measures applicable to the holdings keeping animals of susceptible species situated in the defined infected area, and if necessary, in its surroundings, including the transport and movement of animals of susceptible species within, from and to the area; these measures shall at least include the ban of moving animals of susceptible species, their semen, embryos or ova from the infected area for the purposes of intra-Community trade; (n) other criteria to be applied for lifting the measures taken to eradicate the disease in the defined area and the measures applied to holdings in the area; (o) the authority charged with supervising and coordinating the departments responsible for implementing the plan; (p) the system established in order that the expert group appointed in accordance with point 1(b) in Part A can review on a regular basis the results of the eradication plan; (q) the disease monitoring measures that shall be enforced after a period of at least 12 months has elapsed from the last confirmed case of foot-and-mouth disease in wild animals in the defined infected area; these monitoring measures shall stay in place for at least 12 months and shall at least include the measures already enforced in accordance with points (g), (k) and (l). 5.
A report concerning the epidemiological situation in the defined area and the results of the eradication plan shall be transmitted to the Commission and to the other Member States every 6 months. 6.
More detailed rules relating to the establishment of plans for the eradication of foot-and-mouth disease in wild animals may be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 89(3).
ANNEX XIX DEADLINES FOR TRANSPOSITION INTO NATIONAL LAW %gt%TABLE%gt% ANNEX XX CORRELATION TABLE %gt%TABLE%gt%
