All tangible and intangible fixed assets which, being intended to serve the activities of the Communities on a lasting basis within the meaning of Article 65 of the Financial Regulation and Article 130 of Regulation (Euratom, ECSC, EC) No 3418/93, are to be entered in the inventory and shall form part of the property belonging to the Communities and shall be entered in the Communities' balance sheet.
Article 2 Institutional scope 1.
The Institutions shall be those listed in Article 12 of the Financial Regulation.
TITLE II STRUCTURE OF THE BALANCE SHEET Article 3 Structure of the balance sheet The fixed assets covered by this Regulation shall be entered on the assets side of the balance sheet under the heading %quot%fixed assets%quot% and set out as follows: - intangible assets, - tangible assets: - land and buildings, - plant, machinery and tools, - furniture and vehicle fleet, - computer hardware, - finance leases and similar entitlements, - other tangible assets, - tangible assets in course of construction, advances and payments on account in respect of tangible assets.
TITLE III PROVISIONS RELATING TO THE DIFFERENT BALANCE SHEET ITEMS Chapter 1 General provisions Article 4 Finance leases and similar entitlements 1.
Article 5 Assets ancillary to a main asset The value or useful life of assets which are inseparable from or permanently linked to another item of movable or immovable property shall be added to the value or useful life of the main asset to which they are attached.
Article 6 Assets forming part of a whole Separate components of a piece of equipment or technical installation shall form part of a whole where they can only operate together.
Chapter 2 Special provisions Article 7 Land and buildings 1.
The following shall be regarded as land: - bare ground, - developed land, - built-up land. 2.
The following shall be regarded as buildings: - freehold buildings of the Institutions, - buildings in shared ownership with co-proprietors, - fixtures within the meaning of paragraph 3. 3.
Article 8 Plant, machinery and tools Plant and machinery shall comprise the different plant, objects, instruments and machinery necessary for the functioning of scientific, technical or administrative activities.
Article 9 Furniture and vehicle fleet Furniture shall comprise the movable property, such as tables, chairs, cupboards and desk units.
Article 10 Computer hardware Computer hardware shall comprise the specific installations, machinery and instruments whose use requires software and which are intended for the processing of information.
Article 11 Tangible fixed assets in course of construction Uncompleted tangible fixed assets on the date when the accounts are closed shall be regarded as tangible fixed assets in course of construction.
Article 12 Intangible fixed assets 1.
Article 13 Other tangible or intangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets within the meaning of Articles 7 to 11 which do not belong to the preceding categories, such as removable shelving units, partitions, false floors and ceilings, and wiring, shall be regarded as other tangible fixed assets.
Intangible fixed assets within the meaning of Article 12 which do not belong to the preceding category (computer software) shall be regarded as other intangible fixed assets.
Article 14 Advances and payments on account in respect of acquisitions of fixed assets Sums paid before a supplier begins to perform an order or following proof of partial performance of a contract or order shall be regarded as advances and payments on account.
TITLE IV VALUATION RULES Chapter 1 General provisions Article 15 Valuation 1.
Article 16 Book value The book value of a fixed asset shall be equal to its acquisition price or production cost, plus or minus revaluations, depreciation and other amounts written off.
Article 17 Use of the euro 1.
Fixed assets shall be expressed in euro. 2.
Article 18 Acquisition price - assets acquired for consideration 1.
Article 19 Assets acquired free of charge 1.
Article 20 Production cost 1.
Assets produced by the European Communities shall be valued at their production cost. 2.
Chapter 2 Special provisions Article 21 Finance leases 1.
Article 22 Computer software 1.
The purchase price of computer software acquired under a large account contract requiring the Institution to pay a fee per user shall be the total of the price paid in respect of each user. 3.
Chapter 3 Replacement of one asset by another and improvements Article 25 Replacement Where a new asset is acquired in pure exchange for an old one, or when the new asset is acquired in part in exchange of an old one and in part by a monetary payment, the old asset shall be taken off the balance sheet and the new asset entered on the balance sheet at market value, established in accordance with Article 19.
Article 26 Improvements Improvements to assets entered on the balance sheet shall increase their book value.
Improvements shall be valued in accordance with Chapters 1 and 2 of this Title.
Chapter 4 Depreciation Article 27 Definition 1.
Depreciation shall be understood as the accounting estimate of the durable and, normally, irreversible decline in value of a fixed asset resulting for example from its use over time or from technological evolution.
Depreciation shall begin in the year in which the asset is put into service and shall be calculated in whole years, irrespective of the point during the year when this takes place. 3.
Where the real useful life of an asset exceeds its depreciation period, the asset shall remain on the balance sheet at the end of the depreciation period, with depreciation corresponding to 100 % of its book value.
Article 28 Depreciable assets 1.
Article 29 Depreciation rules and method 1.
The depreciation method to be applied shall be the straight-line method, apart from exceptions stipulated by the Commission's Accounting Officer.
Article 30 Depreciation rates 1.
Article 31 Depreciation of revalued assets Where a fixed asset is revalued within the meaning of Article 15, depreciation of the revalued asset shall continue over its residual life, on the basis of the revalued value.
Where an asset is replaced by another, calculation of the depreciation shall take account of the value of the new asset, determined in accordance with the rules laid down in Article 25, and the date on which the new asset is put into service. 2.
Chapter 5 Loss or disposal Article 33 Loss or disposal Where an asset no longer forms part of the property belonging to the Communities as a result of sale, acceptance in part-exchange by a third party, scrapping, disposal free of charge, destruction, loss or theft or for any other reason, its value and the accumulated depreciation shall no longer appear on the balance sheet.
TITLE V ENTRY IN THE ACCOUNTS Article 34 Acquisition 1.
Article 36 Value adjustments 1.
For the purposes of presentation on the balance sheet, value adjustments within the meaning of Article 15 made following depreciation, revaluation or amounts written off shall be included directly in the fixed assets. 2.
Article 37 Loss or disposal Where an asset no longer forms part of the property belonging to the Communities for one of the reasons referred to in Article 33, the (positive or negative) difference between its book value and the amount obtained on its loss or disposal shall be entered in the income and expenditure account %quot%adjustment results - withdrawal of fixed assets%quot%.
TITLE VI MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS Article 38 Management systems The systems for managing assets belonging to the Communities shall be capable of providing all the data necessary for the identification of each item.
TITLE VII FINAL PROVISIONS AND DEROGATIONS Article 39 Adjustment The Commission may make any adjustments to this Regulation that automatically follow from amendments made to the Financial Regulation or Regulation (Euratom, ECSC, EC) No 3418/93.
Article 40 Conformity The Accounting Officer of each Institution shall ensure that all internal rules concerning the management of inventories are in conformity with this Regulation.
Article 42 Derogations By way of derogation from Article 18, buildings acquired before 1981 shall be entered in the accounts using the conversion rate for the ecu for the month of January 1981.
Article 43 Entry into force This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Done at Brussels, 29 December 2000.
For the Commission Michaele Schreyer Member of the Commission (1) OJ L 356, 31.12.1977, p. 1. (2) OJ L 326, 18.12.1999, p. 1. (3) OJ L 315, 16.12.1993, p. 1. (4) OJ L 290, 17.11.2000, p. 52.
