This Regulation lays down detailed rules for the implementation of the first stage of the programme of work referred to in Article 8 (2) of Directive 91/414/EEC (hereinafter referred to as 'the Directive').
Notification must be made to the Commission, DG VI, rue de la Loi 200, B-1049 Brussels, in accordance with the notification as shown in Annex II hereto, completed and containing the undertaking referred to in part 5 of the specimen notification. 3.
When, following the above procedure, no producer or Member State has notified an interest in obtaining the inclusion of a given active substance in Annex I to the Directive, a decision not to include that active substance may be taken in accordance with the final subparagraph of Article 8 (2) of the Directive.
Following the examination referred to in paragraph 1, decisions shall be adopted on the following, according to the procedure under Article 19 of the Directive, in the form of a regulation: (a) the list of active substances adopted for assessment with a view to their possible inclusion in Annex I to the Directive; (b) designation of a rapporteur Member State for each active substance included in the list referred to in (a). 3.
When, during the reassessment referred to in Articles 6, 7 and 8 hereof, an imbalance becomes apparent in the responsibilities borne by the Member States as rapporteurs, it may be decided, using the procedure under Article 19 of the Directive, to designate a different Member State as rapporteur for a particular substance.
Where for any substance the regulation as envisaged in Article 5 (4) indicates several notifications, the notifiers concerned shall take all reasonable steps to present collectively the dossiers referred to in the first subparagraph.
After that examination, the Commission shall, without prejudice to any proposal it may submit with a view to amending the Annex to Directive 79/117/EEC, present to the Committee either a draft directive to include the active substance in Annex I to the Directive, setting out (where appropriate) the conditions for such inclusion, or else a draft decision pursuant to the final subparagraph of Article 8 (2) of the Directive, whereby that active substance is not included in Annex I thereto. 4.
The procedure provided for in Article 7 (2) is applicable to the examinations referred to in paragraph 1 (a) hereof. 3.
Article 9 Where, in respect of a substance mentioned in Annex A, the Commission presents a proposal for a total prohibition under Directive 79/117/EEC, the periods provided in this Regulation shall be suspended until a decision on this proposal has been taken.
Done at Brussels, 11 December 1992.
ANNEX I LIST OF SUBSTANCES COVERED BY THE FIRST STAGE OF THE WORK PROGRAMME PROVIDED FOR IN ARTICLE 8 (2) OF DIRECTIVE 91/414/EEC Name 1.
Beta-cyfluthrin 14.
Lambda-cyhalothrin 16.
Cypermethrin 17.
Alpha-cypermethrin 18.
Parathion-methyl 28.
Fentin acetate 35.
Fentin hydroxide 36.
Maleic hydrazide 58.
Pendimethalin 86.
