Article 2 Responsibilities of the institutions The appointing authority of each institution shall make available to the Office a sufficient number of selection board members, examiners and invigilator on the basis of the "quota" approved by the Management Board as provided for in Article 6(i), to enable the selection procedures to proceed smoothly in accordance with Article 3 of Annex III to the Staff Regulations.
Article 3 Other services 1.
Article 4 Complaints and requests 1.
The Head of the Office shall exercise the powers conferred on the appointing authority under Article 90 of the Staff Regulations in respect of all requests or complaints relating to the tasks of the Office. 2.
Article 5 Management Board 1.
Article 7 Appointment of staff 1.
The Head of the Office shall be the Appointing Authority for the staff of the Office. 3.
Article 8 Tasks of the Head of the Office; management of staff 1.
The Head of the Office shall be responsible for the smooth running of the Office.
Article 9 Financial matters 1.
The appropriations allocated to the Office, the total amount of which shall be entered in a separate budget heading within the section of the budget relating to the Commission, shall be set out in detail in an Annex to that section.
Article 10 Review This Decision shall be reviewed after a period of three years following the establishment of the Office.
Article 11 Effective date This Decision shall take effect on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
For the European Parliament The Secretary-General J.
Priestley For the Council The Deputy Secretary-General P.
De Boissieu For the Commission The Secretary-General D.
O'Sullivan For the Court of Justice The Registrar R.
Grass For the Court of Auditors The Secretary-General M.
HervĂŠ For the Economic and Social Committee The Secretary-General P.
Venturini For the Committee of the Regions The Secretary-General V.
Falcone The European Ombudsman J.
SĂ¸derman (1) OJ L 56, 4.3.1968, p. 1. (2) See page 53 of this Official Journal.
