This Regulation shall apply to goods to be supplied: - ex works or free carrier, or - free at port of shipment, or - free at port of landing, or - free at destination. 3.
Participation in the tender procedures provided for under this Regulation shall be open on equal terms to any natural or legal person, hereinafter called 'undertaking`, - from the Community pursuant to Article 58 of the Treaty, - from a Member State established in the case of an undertaking outside the Community, or a maritime company established outside the Community and controlled by nationals of a Member State if their vessels are registered in that Member State in accordance with its legislation, - from a recipient country included in the list annexed to Regulation (EC) No 1292/96, - from the country where the mobilization is carried out under the conditions set out in Articles 11 and 17 of Regulation (EC) No 1292/96. 2.
In this case the Commission shall determine the rules and procedures which shall apply. 3.
The Commission shall determine the rules and procedures provided for in paragraphs 1 and 2 in accordance with the provisions envisaged by Article 22 of Regulation (EC) No 1292/96 and pursuant to the provisions of this Regulation.
Where products are mobilized in the Community, they may be purchased on the market from an intervention agency designated in the tender notice or be manufactured from goods purchased from such an agency.
CHAPTER II Award procedures Article 6 1.
A restricted invitation to tender may be issued in the following cases: (a) where products are mobilized outside the Community; (b) where products are supplied under an allocation decision taken pursuant to Article 24 (1) (a) of Regulation (EC) No 1292/96; (c) where a supply operation is decided following the cancellation of a previous supply contract; (d) where a supply operation has become urgent following the allocation decision. 4.
Tenders must arrive or be lodged in their entirety before expiry of the deadline for submission of tenders laid down in the tender notice. 2.
Without prejudice to paragraph 3, in the case of delivery free at port of landing or free at destination by sea, the tender shall indicate one single port of shipment.
However, two ports may be indicated in the tender if the whole cargo cannot be loaded in the first port by virtue of that port's configuration and loading has to be completed on the same vessel in the second port. 6.
In the case of supplies involving no more than 3 000 tonnes net per lot for a single destination, the port of loading shall be selected, having regard to the possibility of a sea connection with the country of destination, with a maximum of one transshipment in a port outside the Community, by a liner or part cargo vessel during the shipment period laid down.
The transshipment costs shall be borne by the supplier.
In special circumstances the port of shipment may be specified in the tender notice. 7.
Where point (d) of paragraph 3 applies, the tender shall be presented as follows: (a) in the case of delivery ex works or free carrier, the tenderer shall submit a single tender covering the full cost of loading and stowing the goods on the means of transport provided by the beneficiary; (b) in the case of delivery free at port of shipment, the tenderer shall submit a single tender covering all costs relating to the stage of delivery specified in the tender notice; (c) in the case of delivery free at port of landing, the tenderer shall simultaneously quote two amounts: (i) the first for delivery at the stage specified.
The tender shall be valid only if it is accompanied by evidence that the guarantee referred to in Article 8 has been lodged.
No tender may be changed or withdrawn after it has been received, except in the case referred to in Article 9 (4).
Article 8 A tendering guarantee, expressed in ecus, shall be lodged for each complete lot.
The guarantee shall be lodged in favour of the Commission in the form of a security from a credit establishment recognized by a Member State.
The conditions for its release or forfeiture are set out in Article 22.
The award shall be made no later than three working days for purchases in the Community and four working days for purchases outside the Community from the expiry of the deadline for the submission of tenders to the tenderer who submitted the lowest tender respecting all the conditions of the invitation to tender, in particular the characteristics of the products to be mobilized, hereinafter referred to as 'the supplier`. 2.
In the case of supply foreseen free at port of landing or free at destination, the contract may nevertheless be awarded for a supply to be carried out at the alternative stage of delivery free at port of shipment or ex works specified in the tender notice. 4.
Tenderers shall be informed by letter or written telecommunication within the period referred to in paragraph 1.
Tenderers shall be informed of the decision not to award the contract by written telecommunication, within the period referred to in paragraph 1. 7.
CHAPTER III Obligations of the supplier and conditions of supply Article 10 1.
That guarantee, expressed in ecus, shall represent 10 % of the amount of the tender per lot.
Article 11 As soon as the contract has been awarded the Commission shall inform the supplier of the agency which will be responsible for carrying out the checks referred to in Article 16, issuing the certificate of conformity or the certificate of delivery, and generally coordinating all stages of the supply operation (hereinafter referred to as 'the monitor`).
The provisions of paragraphs 2 to 8 shall apply in the case of supply ex works or free carrier.
In that case the Commission shall require the supplier to bear the additional checking costs. 3.
The supplier shall notify the monitor and the Commission promptly in writing of the agreed date and place of delivery, or of the fact that agreement with the beneficiary has not been reached.
Failure to reach agreement with the beneficiary must be notified at the latest ten days before the deadline set in the tender notice, so that the Commission can take appropriate steps. 4.
The supply must be carried out by the deadline set in the tender notice.
The supplier shall bear all risks, including loss or deterioration, to which the goods may be subject until completion of the supply and recording of that fact by the monitor in the final certificate of conformity referred to in Article 16. 7.
In the event of a discrepancy between the dates and quantities entered in the taking-over certificate referred to in Article 17 and the final certificate of conformity, the Commission may carry out further checks on the basis of which new documents may be issued.
The provisions of paragraphs 2 to 8 shall apply in the case of supply free at port of shipment.
At the supplier's written request, with the agreement of the beneficiary, the Commission may authorize the port of shipment to be changed provided any costs this entails are borne by the supplier.
The supplier shall notify the monitor and the Commission promptly in writing of the agreed date and place of delivery, or of the fact that agreement with the beneficiary has not been reached.
Failure to reach agreement with the beneficiary must be notified at the latest 10 days before the deadline set in the tender notice, so that the Commission can take appropriate steps. 4.
The supplier may bear the costs entailed if the confirmation referred to in Article 7 (6) proves to be incorrect. 5.
Except in the circumstances described in paragraph 4, the delivery must be carried out by the deadline set in the tender notice.
The supply shall be complete when all the goods have actually been delivered at the stage specified in the tender notice. 8.
The provisions of paragraphs 2 to 14 shall apply in the case of supply free at port of landing.
The supplier shall arrange transport at his own expense by the route most appropriate having regard to the deadline referred to in paragraph 14, from the port of shipment indicated in his tender to the port of destination specified in the tender notice.
However, at the supplier's written request, the Commission may permit another port of shipment to be used provided any costs this entails are borne by the supplier. 3.
The goods shall not be shipped by shipping companies whose practices have caused injury to Community shipowners or whose country of establishment has restricted freedom of access to cargoes for Member States' shipping companies or ships lawfully registered in a Member State, in particular during the validity of a Council Decision under Article 11 of Regulation (EEC) No 4057/86 or Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EEC) No 4058/86.
The supplier shall bear the cost of loading the goods onto the vessel at the port of shipment and the freight charges.
As soon as the goods have been shipped the supplier shall send the beneficiary the following documents, with copies to the monitor: (a) a pro forma invoice indicating that the operation relates to a Community aid free of charge; (b) a copy of the provisional certificate of conformity referred to in Article 16; (c) any document necessary for the customs clearance and taking-over by the beneficiary; (d) any other document specified in the tender notice.
In the case of supply ex ship, he shall also send the following documents: (a) the original of the bill of lading for the port of destination, or an equivalent document enabling the goods to be cleared through customs and unloaded by the recipient; (b) where appropriate, the charter party, booking note or any equivalent document, indicating in particular the lay days; (c) for full cargos, a technical note indicating the saltwater draught on arrival and the corresponding tonnage per centimetre (TPC) as well as the stowage plan.
In the case of supply ex quay or at port warehouse, he shall also send the following documents: (a) a copy of the bill of lading and, where appropriate, a packing list for goods supplied by container; (b) a delivery note enabling the goods to be cleared through customs and collected by the recipient. 10.
Without prejudice to paragraph 14, the supply shall be complete when all the goods have actually: (a) been delivered in the ship's hold, in the case of supply ex ship in accordance with the second subparagraph of paragraph 7; (b) been placed on the wharf in the case of supply ex quay in accordance with the third subparagraph of paragraph 7; (c) been stowed in the port warehouse or stacked in the container terminal, in the case of delivery in accordance with the fourth and fifth subparagraphs of paragraph 7. 12.
The supplier shall bear all risks, including loss or deterioration, to which the goods may be subject until completion of the supply and recording of that fact by the monitor in the final certificate of conformity at the stage of supply specified in paragraph 7. 13.
All the goods must arrive at the port of landing by the deadline set in the tender notice.
Where the tender notice specifies more than one port of landing with a single delivery deadline for the same lot, the goods must arrive at each port by that deadline.
Where delivery is impossible by the deadline set in the tender notice, the Commission, at the written request of the beneficiary, backed up by appropriate supporting evidence, may extend the deadline by up to 30 days in order to allow delivery to take place or cancel the contract.
The provisions of paragraphs 2 to 11 shall apply in the case of delivery free at destination either by sea and by land, or by land only. 2.
The supplier shall arrange transport at his own expense by the route most appropriate having regard to the deadline referred to in paragraph 9, from the port of shipment or loading quay indicated in his tender to the final place of destination specified in the tender notice.
However, at the supplier's written request the Commission may authorize the port of shipment or the loading quay to be changed, provided any costs this entails are borne by the supplier.
The provisions of Article 14 (3), (4), (6) and (8) shall apply mutatis mutandis. 4.
The supplier shall bear all risks, including loss or deterioration, to which the goods may be subject until completion of supply at the stage defined in paragraph 2 and recording of that fact by the monitor in the final certificate of conformity. 7.
The supplier shall notify the beneficiary and the monitor promptly in writing of the means of transport used, the loading dates, the expected date of arrival at destination, and any incident occurring while the goods are in transit.
The supplier shall give the beneficiary and the monitor five days' advance confirmation by the swiftest means of the expected date of arrival at destination. 9.
All the goods must arrive at the place of destination by the deadline set in the tender notice.
In the case of delivery free at port of landing or free at destination, a provisional check shall also be carried out when the goods are loaded or at the factory. 2.
When the final check is complete, the monitor shall issue the supplier with a final certificate of conformity specifying in particular the date of completion of the supply and the net quantity supplied; such certificate shall be subject to reservations if necessary. 4.
Where the monitor establishes a non-conformity, he must notify the supplier and the Commission in writing as soon as possible.
If the supplier or the beneficiary objects to the findings of a provisional or final check carried out in accordance with paragraph 2, the monitor, after authorization of the Commission, shall arrange for a second inspection involving, according to the nature of the objection, a second sampling, second analysis, a reweighing or rechecking of the packaging.
The costs of the second inspection referred to in paragraph 8 shall be borne by the losing party. 11.
The supplier may ask the monitor to issue a provisional or final certificate of conformity in respect of part of the consignment.
However, no more than three part-certificates may be issued in respect of a single lot.
A part-certificate may not be issued in respect of less than 2 500 tonnes net of unprocessed cereals and 100 tonnes net of other goods, except where it relates to the balance of a given lot.
For goods supplied in bulk, there shall be a tolerance of 3 % by weight below the quantity requested.
Article 22 (4), (5) and (7) shall apply, as appropriate. 2.
The taking-over certificate or the delivery certificate shall establish the net quantity actually delivered. 3.
Where the beneficiary fails to issue a taking-over certificate within 15 days of receipt of the documents referred to in paragraph 3, the monitor shall, at the supplier's written and justified request, with the agreement of the Commission, issue to the supplier within five working days a delivery certificate containing the particulars set out in Annex III.
CHAPTER IV Terms of payment and release of guarantees Article 18 1.
The sum to be paid to the supplier shall not exceed the amount of the tender plus any costs provided for in Article 19, less any reduction provided for in paragraph 3, sums forfeit as provided for in Article 22 (8), additional costs relating to checking mentioned in Articles 12 to 16 or costs resulting from the measures mentioned in Article 13 (4).
Where the invitation to the tender is for the supply of a maximum quantity of a given product, the sum to be paid shall not exceed the sum indicated in the tender notice, without prejudice to the application of such reductions, forfeitures or costs mentioned above or to payment of the costs provided for in Article 19. 2.
Payment shall be made in respect of the net quantity shown in the taking-over certificate or the delivery certificate.
Where reductions are imposed on a supplier, Article 2 (2) may apply. 4.
In the case of delivery free at port of landing or free at destination, and at the supplier's request, advance payment of up to 90 % of the tender amount may be made as follows: (a) either in proportion to partial quantities whose conformity has been acknowledged and for which the monitor has issued a provisional certificate of conformity; (b) or for the full amount of goods for which a provisional certificate of conformity has been issued by the monitor.
No advance may exceed 90 % of the amount of the tender.
The advance shall only be paid on submission of a guarantee in respect of the advance lodged in favour of the Commission for an amount equal to the amount of the advance plus 10 %.
Except in cases of force majeure, presentation of requests after this deadline shall result in 10 % of the payment being withheld. 7.
All payments shall be made within 60 days of the receipt by the Commission of the complete request for payment presented in accordance with paragraph 5.
Costs shall not be accepted if they exceed: - 1 ecu per tonne of bulk goods and 2 ecus per tonne of processed goods per week in the case of warehousing costs; - 0,75 % a year of the value of the goods in the case of insurance costs.
After this deadline, 10 % of the payment shall be withheld.
Article 20 Where the Commission, after a contract has been awarded, designates a loading address, a port of shipment, port of landing or place of final destination other than those originally specified or a different delivery stage, the supplier shall deliver the goods to the new loading address, the new port or final destination or at the new delivery stage.
The guarantees lodged pursuant to Article 8, Article 10 (2) and Article 18 (5) shall either be released or be forfeit, as appropriate, in accordance with the provisions laid down in paragraphs 2 to 8. 2.
The tender guarantee shall be released: (a) by a letter or written telecommunication by the Commission where the tender is invalid or has not been accepted or where no contract has been awarded; (b) where the tenderer, designated as the supplier, has lodged the delivery guarantee or has withdrawn his tender in accordance with Article 9 (4).
The delivery guarantee shall be released in full by a letter or written telecommunication by the Commission when the supplier: (a) has presented the advance guarantee provided for in the third subparagraph of Article 18 (5); (b) has carried out the supply in compliance with all his obligations; (c) has been released from his obligations pursuant to Article 12 (4), Article 13 (5), Article 14 (15), Article 15 (10) and the second paragraph of Article 20; (d) has not carried out the supply for reasons of force majeure recognized by the Commission. 4.
The delivery guarantee or guarantee in respect of the advance shall be forfeit in full if the Commission establishes that the supply has not been undertaken pursuant to Article 21. 7.
The delivery guarantee or guarantee in respect of the advance shall be released in proportion to the quantities for which right to payment of the balance has been established.
CHAPTER V Final provisions Article 23 It shall be for the Commission to decide whether the supplier's failure to supply the goods or to fulfil one of his obligations may be due to force majeure.
Article 24 The Court of Justice of the European Communities shall be competent to resolve any dispute resulting from the implementation or the non-implementation or from the interpretation of the rules governing supply operations carried out in accordance with this Regulation.
Article 25 For any matters not governed by this Regulation, Belgian law shall apply.
Article 26 Regulation (EEC) No 2200/87 is hereby repealed.
Article 27 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following the date of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
For the Commission JoĂŁo DE DEUS PINHEIRO Member of the Commission (1) OJ L 166, 5. 7. 1996, p. 1. (2) OJ L 204, 25. 7. 1987, p. 1. (3) OJ L 81, 28. 3. 1991, p. 108. (4) OJ L 319, 12. 12. 1994, p. 20. (5) OJ L 121, 17. 5. 1979, p. 1. (6) OJ L 378, 31. 12. 1986, p. 1. (7) OJ L 378, 31. 12. 1986, p. 4. (8) OJ L 378, 31. 12. 1986, p. 14. (9) OJ L 378, 31. 12. 1986, p. 21.
ANNEX I TENDER NOTICE 1.
Beneficiary's representative 4.
Place of destination (address of warehouse in the case of delivery free at destination) - port or warehouse of transit - overland transport route (see Article 15 (4)) 17.
Period or deadline of supply at the stage specified - first deadline - second deadline (see Article 9 (5)) 18.
Period or deadline at the alternative stage - first deadline - second deadline (see Article 9 (5)) 19.
Deadline for the submission of tenders, at 12 noon (Brussels time) - first deadline - second deadline (see Article 9 (5)) 20.
In case of delivery free carrier, transport costs up to the transport terminal indicated in the tender notice 4.
Delivery free at port of shipment 1.
Delivery free at port of landing 1.
Delivery free at destination by sea 1.
Customs transit costs 3.
Overland transport costs to final destination 5.
