In some cases, particularly where the rates offered are too high, the maximum rate must be fixed in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 46 of Regulation (EC) No 2200/96.
The rates of refund for systems A1 and A2 shall be set by the Commission in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 46 of Regulation (EC) No 2200/96, as shall the quantities for which licences may be issued and the terms of validity of those licences.
For system A3 the Commission shall take decisions on issuing invitations to tender in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 46 of Regulation (EC) No 2200/96 and on the indicative rates and the indicative quantities for which licences may be issued, the deadlines for submission of tenders and the terms of validity of the licences. 4.
In the case of system B, the Commission shall fix the indicative quantities and refund rates in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 46 of Regulation (EC) No 2200/96.
Article 2 Special provisions for system A1 1.
Exporters shall apply to the competent bodies in the Member States for a licence under system A1 in order to obtain a refund at the rate applicable on the date of the licence application. 2.
The Commission shall check, for each application submission day in turn, whether the total quantities applied for in each product category exceed the quantity referred to in Article 1(2): - less the quantities for which A1 licences have been issued or are in the process of being issued during the current issuing period, - plus any quantities covered by applications withdrawn under paragraph 5, - plus any quantities for which licences have been issued but not used, - plus any quantities not used within the tolerance provided for in Article 8(5) of Regulation (EC) No 1291/2000.
Export licences shall be issued on the fifth working day following the day on which the application is submitted, provided that neither of the measures referred to in the second subparagraph of paragraph 3 has been taken in the meantime. 5.
Article 3 Special provisions for system A2 1.
Box 20 of licence applications shall contain at least one of the following entries, with the minimum rate of refund sought by the applicant in order to be able to export expressed by a whole number of euro per tonne net weight: - Solicitud condicionada a la fijación, por parte de la Comisión, de un tipo de restitución superior o igual a ... [tipo mínimo solicitado por el solicitante del certificado] EUR/tonelada neta, en la fecha efectiva de la solicitud - Ansøgning betinget af, at Kommissionen fastsætter en restitutionssats på mindst ... (den minimumssats, licensansøgeren ansøger om) EUR/t netto på den faktiske ansøgningsdato - Antrag vorbehaltlich eines von der Kommission am tatsächlichen Tag der Antragstellung festgesetzten Erstattungssatzes von mindestens ...
Licence applicants may not apply for a minimum rate higher than the indicative rate plus 50 %. 3.
Article 4 Special provisions for system A3 (invitations to tender) 1.
Tenders shall be valid only if they are submitted no later than 12.00 (Brussels time) on the last day of the period fixed for the submission of tenders; where that day is a holiday in a Member State for the body responsible for receiving the tenders, the deadline shall be 12.00 on the last preceding working day. 3.
Admissible tenders shall be forwarded to the Commission without the tenderers being mentioned by name in accordance with Article 7(3) no later than 12.00 (Brussels time) on the first working day following the final date for submission of tenders. 4.
Where the maximum rate necessary to award licences for the indicative quantity up to the quantities tendered for exceeds the indicative rate by more than 50 % and in exceptional situations, the maximum rate shall be fixed by the Commission in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 46 of Regulation (EC) No 2200/96. 5.
No later than the third working day following publication of the maximum rate of the refund, the competent body shall issue successful tenderers with export licences for the quantity awarded, mentioning the refund indicated in the tender in box 22 of the licence, in accordance with Article 5(7).
Article 5 Provisions common to systems A1, A2 and A3 1.
Article 18(3) of Regulation (EC) No 800/1999 shall apply to Al, A2 and A3 licences as referred to in Article 1(1)(a), (b) and (c).
The destinations or groups of destinations shall be entered in box 7 of licence applications and licences. 2.
Box 22 of licences shall show at least one of the following entries: - Restitución válida para ...
The Member States shall inform the Commission, in accordance with Article 7(3), of: - any quantities for which licence applications have been withdrawn, - any quantities for which licences have been issued but not used and any quantities not used within the tolerance provided for in Article 8(5) of Regulation (EC) No 1291/2000, - the date of application for the licences and the licence issuing system referred to in Article 1(1), corresponding to the quantities referred to in the first and second indents.
However, quantities withdrawn or not used relating to licences issued during a previous export period (this period running from 1 July to 30 June the following year) shall not be notified. 6.
However, in the case of export licences for apples valid for one or more of the destinations indicated in Annex I, the term of validity shall commence on: - 15 July of the current year for licences issued between the date corresponding to 15 July less the term of validity and 14 July, - the day of issue for licences issued from 15 July to the end of February of the following year.
Where the date on which the term of validity begins is not the same as the date of issue within the meaning of the first subparagraph, it shall be indicated as follows in box 22 of the licence: - Certificado válido a partir del ... [fecha de comienzo del período de validez] - Licensen er gyldig fra ... (gyldighedsperiodens begyndelse) - Lizenz gültig ab ... (Beginn der Gültigkeitsdauer) - Πιστοποιητικό ισχύον από ... (ημερομηνία έναρξης ισχύος) - Licence valid from ... (date of commencement of validity) - Certificat valable à partir du ... (date de début de validité) - Titolo valido dal ... (data di decorrenza della validità) - Certificaat geldig vanaf ... (datum van begin van de geldigheidsduur) - Certificado válido a partir de ... (data de início da validade) - Todistus voimassa ... (voimassaolon alkamispäivä) alkaen - Licens giltig från ... (datum för giltighetstidens början).
The refund rate applicable shall be indicated as follows in box 22 of the licence: - Certificado con fijación anticipada de la restitución a un tipo de ...
Article 6 Special provisions for system B 1.
Notwithstanding Article 4 of Regulation (EC) No 800/1999, exporters may apply to the competent bodies of the Member States for a licence under system B as referred to in Article 1(4) no later than the second working day following the date of acceptance of the export declaration for the products with a view to obtaining a refund at the valid rate for the export period in question.
However, applications for licences to export apples to one or more of the destinations indicated in Annex I shall be accepted only during the period 15 July to the end of February the following year. 2.
The declaration must contain at least one of the following entries: - Exportación para la que se presentará una solicitud a posteriori de certificado de exportación sin fìjación anticipada de la restitución (sistema B) - Udførsel, for hvilken der efterfølgende ansøges om eksportlicens uden forudfastsættelse af restitutionen (system B) - Ausfuhr, für die nachträglich eine Ausfuhrlizenz ohne Vorausfestsetzung der Erstattung beantragt wird (System B) - Εξαγωγή για την οποία θα υποβληθεί αίτηση εκ των υστέρων για την έκδοση πιστοποιητικού εξαγωγής χωρίς προκαθορισμό της επιστροφής (σύστημα Β) - Export to be the subject of an a posteriori application for an export licence without advance fixing of the refund (system B) - Exportation qui fera l'objet d'une demande a posteriori de certificat d'exportation sans fixation à l'avance de la restitution (système B) - Esportazione che sarà oggetto di una domanda a posteriori di titolo di esportazione senza fissazione anticipata della restituzione (sistema B) - Uitvoer waarvoor achteraf een uitvoercertificaat zonder vaststelling vooraf van de restitutie (B-stelsel) zal worden aangevraagd - Exportação que será objecto de um pedido a posteriori de certificado de exportação sem prefixação da restituição (sistema B) - Vientiä, josta jätetään jälkikäteen vientitodistus, johon ei sisälly tuen ennakkovahvistusta, koskeva hakemus (B-menettely) - Export som kräver en ansökan i efterhand om exportlicens utan förutfastställelse av bidraget (system B). 3.
The destinations or groups of destinations shall be indicated in box 7 of licence applications and licences. 4.
Box 20 of licence applications and licences shall show at least one of the following entries: - Solicitud de certificado de exportación sin fijación anticipada de la restitución con arreglo al artículo 6 del Reglamento (CE) n° .../2001 - Ansøgning om eksportlicens uden forudfastsættelse af restitutionen, jf.
Furthermore, in order to comply with the annual limits arising under agreements concluded in accordance with Article 300 of the Treaty, the Commission may determine for what percentage of the quantities applied for licences may be issued. 8.
Box 22 of licences shall contain at least one of the following entries, along with the refund rate fixed in accordance with the first subparagraph of paragraph 7, and the quantity, reduced if necessary by the percentage referred to in the second subparagraph of paragraph 7: - Certificado de exportación sin fijación anticipada de la restitución por una cantidad de ...
Article 24 of Regulation (EC) No 1291/2000 shall not apply to licences as referred to in this Article.
Article 7 General provisions 1.
Box 16 of licence applications and licences shall show the code of the agricultural product nomenclature for export refunds given in Regulation (EEC) No 3846/87.
Article 8 Repeal Regulation (EC) No 2190/96 is hereby repealed.
Article 9 Entry into force This Regulation shall enter into force on the third day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Done at Brussels, 8 October 2001.
For the Commission Franz Fischler Member of the Commission (1) OJ L 297, 21.11.1996, p. 1. (2) OJ L 129, 11.5.2001, p. 3. (3) OJ L 292, 15.11.1996, p. 12. (4) OJ L 34, 9.2.2000, p. 16. (5) OJ L 152, 24.6.2000, p. 1. (6) OJ L 366, 24.12.1987, p. 1. (7) OJ L 199, 24.7.2001, p. 13. (8) OJ L 102, 17.4.1999, p. 11. (9) OJ L 14, 18.1.2001, p. 22. (10) OJ L 156, 13.6.2001, p. 9.
ANNEX I Destinations referred to in Article 5(6) and Article 6(1) Hong Kong SAR Singapore Malaysia Sri Lanka Indonesia Thailand Taiwan Papua New Guinea Laos Cambodia Vietnam Japan Uruguay Paraguay Argentina Mexico Costa Rica ANNEX ΙΙ Correlation table %gt%TABLE%gt%
