Provisional measures (1) By Regulation (EC) No 230/2001(2) (%quot%provisional Regulation%quot%), the Commission imposed a provisional anti-dumping duty on imports of certain iron or steel ropes and cables (%quot%SWR%quot%) originating in the Czech Republic, Russia, Thailand and Turkey and accepted undertakings offered by certain exporting producers in the Czech Republic and Turkey. (2) No provisional measures were imposed on imports from the Republic of Korea (%quot%Korea%quot%) and Malaysia in view of the de minimis dumping margins found. 2.
Subsequent procedure (3) Subsequent to the disclosure of the essential facts and considerations on the basis of which it was decided to impose provisional anti-dumping measures, several interested parties submitted comments in writing.
While products in the bottom end and in the top end of the range are not interchangeable, products in adjoining groups are.
It should be noted that interested parties were not able to show that a clear dividing line existed between either of these two groups.
Similarly, the SWR produced and sold on the domestic market in Korea were alike to the SWR originating in Russia and exported to the Community. (15) Some interested parties argued that the SWR sold by the Community industry in the Community were not alike to those imported from the countries concerned.
In any event, even if the Community industry has a clear advantage in terms of proximity, it should be noted that exporting producers are not prevented from participating in tenders. (18) It was therefore concluded that the basic physical and technical characteristics and the basic use of the SWR imported from the countries concerned and those produced and sold by the Community industry in the Community are alike. (19) In view of all the above, the findings in recitals 14 to 16 of the provisional Regulation are confirmed.
General methodology (a) Normal value (20) Some cooperating exporting producers contested the methodology used to establish the amounts for profit added to the cost of manufacturing and to the selling, general and administrative expenses (%quot%SG%amp% A expenses%quot%) in case of recourse to constructed normal values.
For the Czech cooperating exporting producer, the Commission should have excluded domestic sales of SWR types whose volume represented less than 5 % of the volume of the same type exported to the Community.
The influence of any potentially non-representative data is neutralised when the sales of all domestically sold models are aggregated at company level, provided that the total domestic sales in the ordinary course of trade exceed 5 % of the exports to the Community. (22) In addition, the Thai cooperating exporting producer also questioned the reasonableness of the profit margin resulting from the application of the above methodology.
contested the 5 % adjustment for the notional commission deducted from the prices charged by the related exporter to independent customers in the Community since this would not relate to an actual commission payment.
The Commission established that the alleged differences in the packing costs included in the export price and the normal value at ex-works level did not exist.
Even assuming that ZDB a.s.
Bhd.: 0 %. (55) The complainant claimed that Malaysian producers which did not cooperate in the investigation might have exported to the Community during the IP.
Since no evidence was submitted to back this claim, the Commission could not confirm that exports by non-cooperating producers to the Community had actually taken place during the investigation period. (56) The provisional findings set out in recital 66 of the provisional Regulation are thus confirmed.
Therefore, pursuant to Article 9(3) of the basic Regulation the investigation in respect of Malaysia should be terminated. 5.
It submitted that the related importers also acted as unrelated importers for imports of the like product originating in third countries, and that the profit margins obtained in that trade should be used. (59) However, Article 2(9) of the basic Regulation requires the profit margin used for the construction of export price to be reasonable.
On this basis the definitive residual dumping margin was set at the same level as the highest margin established for the cooperating companies, i.e. 55,2 %. 7.
The company could not submit such financial statements for 1999 to establish whether this practice had ceased during the IP, and the Commission found for a significant amount of transactions (charge for land use in 1999, water supply i.e.
The complainant claimed that the selection of Korea favoured Russian exporting producers as shown by the difference in the provisional dumping margins between Russia and the Czech Republic.
The fact that the catalogues of the Czech and Russian producers propose the same range of SWR for domestic and export sales would also invalidate the reasoning set out in recital 99 of the provisional Regulation for not selecting the Czech Republic. (81) The reasons for envisaging Korea as an appropriate market economy third country were disclosed to all interested parties in due time during the investigation.
Moreover, the fact that the catalogues of the Czech and Russian producers contained the same types of SWR is quite irrelevant in this case since there was only a small overlap between the SWR types exported by the Russian exporting producers to the Community and the SWR types sold by the Czech cooperating exporting producer on its domestic market types during the IP.
It suggested to extend the use of domestic sales prices by relaxing some characteristics used to define various models and types of SWR and, in this way, increasing the number of types sold on the Korean market that are comparable to the types it had exported to the Community. (85) Article 2(7)(a) of the basic Regulation provides that in the case of imports from countries such as Russia, normal values be established on the basis of the price or constructed value in a market economy third country unless an exporting producer meets the criteria set out in subparagraph (c) of the aforementioned provision.
COMMUNITY INDUSTRY (96) In the absence of any new information on the Community industry, the provisional findings as described in recitals 114 to 120 of the provisional Regulation are confirmed.
They alleged that this methodology was allegedly insufficient to satisfy the Commission's obligations under Article 3(5) of the basic Regulation. (98) In arriving at its provisional findings, the Commission evaluated all relevant economic factors and indices having a bearing on the state of the industry in accordance with Article 3(5) of the basic Regulation and applied the sampling methodology described in Article 17 of the basic Regulation.
It should be noted that neither the selection of the sample nor its representativity were contested by any interested party. (99) In view of the above, the methodology described in recitals 123 to 125 of the provisional Regulation is confirmed. 2.
Apparent Community consumption (100) One interested party contested the statement in recital 128 that the decrease of apparent consumption in 1999 could be explained by sales of stock built up in 1998 by importers/traders.
Imports from the countries concerned (a) Volume and market share of dumped imports (106) The Thai exporting producer argued that its exports to the Community were negligible throughout the period considered. (107) Imports of SWR originating in Thailand represented 1,5 % in 1999 and 2 % in the IP and were therefore not negligible according to Article 9(3) of the basic Regulation.
The request was thus rejected. (114) Some interested parties argued that the tensile strength, contrary to the Commission's statement in recital 137 of the provisional Regulation, was a main price driver and requested the use of this criterion to avoid inflating price undercutting margins. (115) Though the analysis of tensile strength on a type by type basis at company level did not show a discernible pattern in prices, a comparison of the exporting producers' prices with those of the Community industry's showed that tensile strength was indeed a factor that affected price.
Situation of the Community industry (a) Investments and ability to raise capital (117) Some interested parties argued that the impact of investments cannot only be considered in terms of depreciation and the interest paid to finance the investment, but the analysis should also cover the creditworthiness, goodwill and the cost/benefit of the use of financial resources. (118) It should be noted that the analysis of creditworthiness is made in recital 153 of the provisional Regulation. (119) Goodwill can be defined as the excess amount that has to be paid to acquire a part or the whole of a business as a going concern, over and above the value of the net assets owned by the business (purchased goodwill is capitalised as an asset).
As such, it would only be analysed if depreciation of goodwill had influenced profitability, which is not the case. (120) Finally, a cost/benefit analysis of the Community industry's investments that goes beyond the analysis made on the impact of investments in profitability is beyond the scope of the proceeding. (121) The same interested parties argued that the Commission had found in the course of the investigation in the previous anti-dumping proceeding that the Community industry's investments had increased significantly between 1994 and 1998 and that their impact in terms of depreciation and interest paid in the period considered should also be analysed. (122) Though depreciation in the period considered increased by 9 %, depreciation of plant and machinery actually decreased 3 %, which shows that investments have not been excessive, but were needed to replace old machinery already fully depreciated.
Although sales increased modestly from 66331 in 1999 to 67671 tonnes in the IP, the Community industry's market share did not increase despite the restored, effective competition from the countries subject to anti-dumping measures.
The sharp contraction of apparent consumption in 1999 (-14 %), coinciding with the imposition of anti-dumping measures, did not affect the countries concerned, which registered a further 89 % rise of exports to the Community.
This clearly shows that it is not the decline in consumption that is causing injury to the Community industry, but other factors such as the sustained, high growth of dumped imports originating in the countries concerned. (134) In view of the above, the provisional findings as described in recitals 169 to 171 of the provisional Regulation are confirmed. 2.
Self-inflicted injury through erroneous decisions on investments (135) Some interested parties argued that the Community industry's low level of profitability in the IP (0 %) was due to the erroneous decisions made by the Community industry to increase investments. (136) As already explained in recital 122 above depreciation of plant and machinery decreased by 3 % in the period considered, which shows that investment has not been excessive, but was needed to replace old machinery already fully depreciated.
Imports from other third countries (140) Regarding other third countries, some interested parties requested that care be taken to ensure that the impact of imports from other third countries was not attributed to the imports from the countries concerned.
Their prices were also found, with the exception of one Korean exporting producer, to undercut the selling prices of the Community industry in the IP. (142) Although the growth of imports originating in the countries concerned was lower in the period considered (215 %), their market share in the IP (10,8 %) was still higher than that of Korea and Malaysia.
Furthermore, the overall price undercutting margin in the IP found for Korea and Malaysia was substantially lower than that found for the countries concerned. (143) Thus, the Community industry would in all likelihood have been able to increase its sales volume if there were no dumped imports from the countries concerned despite the competition from imports originating in Korea and Malaysia.
In this context, the market share of other third countries (excluding the countries concerned, Korea and Malaysia) decreased from 24,6 % in 1997 to 9,7 % in the IP.
Among the countries mentioned by interested parties as having caused injury to the Community industry only Poland and Romania held a market share of at least 1 % in the IP. (145) Regarding Poland, during the period considered its market share declined from 3,3 % to 2,9 % and its selling prices per kg rose by 23 %.
In this context, it cannot be argued that Poland contributed to the material injury suffered by the Community industry. (146) Concerning Romania, its market share remained stable during the period considered (0,9 % in 1997, 1,1 % in 1998, 0,9 % in 1999 and 1 % in the IP), while imports originating in this country increased by 8 % from 1398 tonnes in 1997 to 1510 tonnes in the IP.
It can be assumed that, taking into account Romania's stable market share (which was negligible in 1997 and 1999), its impact on the Community industry was not such as to break the causal link between the imports concerned and the situation of the Community industry. (147) In view of the above, the provisional findings as described in recitals 174 to 179 of the provisional Regulation are confirmed. 4.
Conclusion (148) It is confirmed that, although other factors, namely the imports from Korea, Malaysia and Romania, may have had a negative impact on the situation of the Community industry in the IP, this impact was not such as to break the causal link between the dumped imports and the situation of the Community industry.
Therefore the imports from the countries concerned taken in isolation have been found to cause material injury to the Community industry as described in recitals 164 to 168 of the provisional Regulation.
COMMUNITY INTEREST 1.
Collection of information and interest of the Community industry (149) In the absence of any new information on the collection of information and interest of the Community industry, the provisional findings as described in recitals 186 to 196 of the provisional Regulation are confirmed. 2.
Furthermore, the conclusions reached in the provisional Regulation on the interest of the supplier industry were not contested by any raw material supplier. (152) In view of the above, the provisional findings as described in recitals 197 to 201 of the provisional Regulation are confirmed. 3.
The argument should therefore be rejected. (158) In view of the above, the provisional findings as described in recitals 202 to 207 of the provisional Regulation are confirmed. 4.
Interest of users (159) In the absence of any new information on the interest of users, the provisional findings as described in recitals 208 to 211 of the provisional Regulation are confirmed. 5.
Conclusion on Community interest (160) In view of the above, the provisional findings as described in recitals 212 to 215 of the provisional Regulation are confirmed, i.e.
DEFINITIVE ANTI-DUMPING MEASURES 1.
Injury elimination level (161) Based on the methodology explained in recitals 216 to 219 of the provisional Regulation, and taking into account the modifications mentioned in recitals 111 and 115 above and the correction of clerical errors, the weighted average export prices of SWR were compared with the selling prices charged by the Community industry in the Community market - adjusted to reflect a profit margin of 5 %.
The difference was then expressed as a percentage of the exporting producers' export prices on a cif Community frontier level. 2.
Termination of the proceeding in respect of Korea and Malaysia without imposition of measures (163) In view of the results of the investigation concerning Korea and Malaysia, and considering that the dumping margin found in the case of these two countries is below the 2 % threshold set in Article 9(3) of the basic Regulation, the proceeding should be terminated without the imposition of anti-dumping measures in respect of imports of the product concerned originating in Korea and Malaysia.
The proceeding concerning imports originating in Korea and Malaysia has been terminated by Commission Decision 2001/602/EC of 26 July 2001 accepting undertakings offered in connection with the anti-dumping proceeding concerning imports of certain iron or steel ropes and cables originating in the Czech Republic, the Republic of Korea, Malaysia, Russia, Thailand and Turkey and terminating the proceeding in respect of imports originating in the Republic of Korea and Malaysia(3). 4.
Undertakings (164) The undertakings offered by the exporting producers in the Czech Republic and Turkey were accepted at the provisional stage.
Article 4 This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
The commercial invoice number. 4.
The date of issue of the commercial invoice. 5.
The description of the terms of the sale, including: - price per kg; - the applicable payment terms; - the applicable delivery terms; - total discounts and rebates. 8.
