Article 2 This Financial Regulation lays down detailed rules for the conclusion of contracts relating to Sisnet and for the establishment and implementation of the budget required in relation to such contracts.
If necessary, each title shall be subdivided into chapters and articles. 2.
Article 4 The budget appropriations shall be used in accordance with the principles of sound financial management, and in particular those of economy and cost-effectiveness.
Total revenue shall cover total expenditure. 2.
The financial year shall run from 1 January to 31 December. 3.
The expenditure of a financial year shall be entered in the accounts for that year on the basis of expenditure for which the financial controller received authorisation no later than 31 December and for which the corresponding payments were made by the accounting officer before the following 15 January. 5.
The following rules shall govern the utilisation of appropriations: (a) appropriations still uncommitted at the end of the financial year for which they were entered shall, as a rule, lapse; (b) appropriations in respect of payments still outstanding at 31 December by virtue of commitments duly entered into between 1 January and 31 December shall be carried over automatically to the next financial year only. 2.
Notwithstanding paragraph 1, the Deputy Secretary-General of the Council may forward to the Schengen Information System Working Group, hereafter referred to as the %quot%SIS Working Group%quot%, before 31 January, duly substantiated requests to carry over to the next financial year appropriations not committed at 31 December, when the appropriations provided for the headings concerned in the budget for the following financial year do not cover requirements.
CHAPTER II Establishment of the budget Article 8 1.
The budget shall be drawn up in euro. 2.
The Deputy Secretary-General shall forward the preliminary draft budget to the SIS Working Group before 30 September and attach an explanatory memorandum. 3.
The Deputy Secretary-General shall establish the draft budget and forward it by 31 October to the States referred to in Article 25. 5.
If the budget has not been finally adopted at the beginning of the financial year: (a) payments may be made for up to one twelfth, each month, of the total appropriations authorised for each budget title for the preceding financial year; and (b) the contributions of the States referred to in Article 25 may be called up for up to one twelfth, each month, of the contributions paid under the last duly adopted budget. 2.
Article 11 The budget may be released to the public.
CHAPTER III Implementation of the budget and accountancy Article 12 The budget shall be implemented in accordance with the principle that the authorising officer and the accounting officer are different individuals.
Article 14 The task of financial controller shall be carried out by the Council's Financial Controller in accordance with the rules applicable to the latter's duties.
Article 15 The receipt of revenue and the disbursement of expenditure shall be carried out by an accounting officer from Directorate-General A at the General Secretariat of the Council.
Recovery orders shall be forwarded to the accounting officer, who shall submit them to the financial controller for approval. 2.
Article 17 Notwithstanding Articles 5 and 6: 1.
The proposal shall be submitted by the accounting officer to the financial controller for approval. 2.
The purpose of this approval shall be to establish that: (a) the proposal for commitment has been presented in accordance with paragraph 1; (b) the expenditure has been charged to the correct budget item; (c) the appropriations are available in the budget; (d) the principles of sound financial management referred to in Article 4 have been applied; (e) the expenditure is in order and conforms to the relevant provisions.
The accounting officer shall submit the payment order, together with the original supporting documents, to the financial controller for approval. 5.
Any expenditure must be covered beforehand by contributions from the States referred to in Article 25 or, failing those, by a bank loan.
Article 21 Payments shall be effected through the bank account opened in accordance with Article 17 of Council Decision 1999/323/EC(3) in the name of the Secretary-General of the Council.
Article 23 The liability to disciplinary action of the authorising officer, financial controller, and accounting officer in the event of failure to comply with the provisions of this Financial Regulation shall be as laid down in the Staff Regulations of Officials of the European Communities.
Article 24 The accounts shall be kept by the double-entry method on the basis of the calendar year.
CHAPTER IV States' contributions Article 25 1.
The Deputy Secretary-General shall forward requests for contributions to each State referred to in Article 25 by letter through the national administrations whose details have been notified to him. 2.
Contributions shall be paid into the bank account referred to in Article 21. 4.
The States referred to in Article 25 shall be required to pay 25 % of their contribution by 15 February, 1 April, 1 July and 1 October at the latest. 2.
CHAPTER V Conclusion of contracts Article 29 1.
In such cases, the Member States referred to in Article 25 shall none the less be bound, as far as possible and by all appropriate means, to enable suppliers who are likely to be able to supply the goods and services in question to compete. 4.
Invitations to tender shall, as a general rule, be published by the General Secretariat of the Council on behalf of the Member States referred to in Article 25 in all the Member States. 5.
Article 30 In every case where contact has been made under the conditions provided for in Article 29(6)(h), a %quot%Note for the file%quot% shall be drawn up and such contact shall be mentioned in the report to be submitted subsequently to the Advisory Committee referred to in Article 36.
Article 31 No discrimination shall be practised between nationals of Member States and of Iceland and Norway on grounds of nationality in respect of contracts entered into by the Deputy Secretary-General on behalf of the Member States referred to in Article 25.
Article 32 Where there are general conditions applicable to the proposed contract, they shall be attached to the invitation to tender.
Article 33 Tenderers may submit tenders: (a) by post: in which case the invitation to tender must specify that the relevant date shall be that on which the tender is posted, as evidenced by the postmark.
Article 36 Contracts to be concluded by the Deputy Secretary-General on behalf of the Member States referred to in Article 25 and by the appropriate representatives of Iceland and Norway after an invitation to tender has been issued shall first be submitted for the opinion of an Advisory Committee on procurements and contracts.
Article 37 The Advisory Committee referred to in Article 36 shall include one representative from each Member State referred to in Article 25, together with one representative from each of Norway and Iceland.
Article 38 The Advisory Committee shall draw up its own rules of procedure, by analogy with the rules of procedure of the Advisory Committee on Procurements and Contracts of the Council of the European Union.
Article 40 The files submitted to the Advisory Committee for an opinion pursuant to Article 39(b) to (e), shall also be accompanied by a report approved unanimously by the Member States referred to in Article 25, as well as Iceland and Norway.
Article 41 The opinions of the Advisory Committee shall be signed by its chairman.
Article 42 All the tenderers shall be informed by the General Secretariat of the Council of the decision taken with regard to their tenders.
The deposit must, in principle, consist of a payment in euro made to a bank account specifically opened for that purpose in the name of the General Secretariat of the Council.
Article 44 The usual supporting documents accompanying the first order to pay drawn up pursuant to a contract requiring the provision of a deposit shall be supplemented by a copy, certified true by the accounting officer, of the receipt issued when the deposit was paid, or by a copy, certified true by the accounting officer, of a declaration from the establishment or third party providing the guarantee.
Article 45 Deposits shall be repaid, or the guarantees referred to in Article 43 given in place thereof released, by the Deputy Secretary-General in accordance with the provisions of the applicable contract or guarantee, except in cases of non-performance or late performance as referred to in Article 43(6).
CHAPTER VI Presenting and auditing the accounts Article 46 1.
It shall be submitted in the same form and following the same subdivisions as the budget. 3.
The following shall be attached to the account: (a) a statement showing the situation of each of the States referred to in Article 25 as regards payment of its financial contribution, and (b) an appropriation transfer statement. 4.
The balance sheet shall show the budget assets and liabilities as at 31 December of the preceding financial year.
The Deputy Secretary-General shall forward the revenue and expenditure account and the balance sheet to the Court of Auditors within 15 days following the period laid down in Article 46(1). 3.
Article 48 The revenue and expenditure account, balance sheet and report by the Court of Auditors, accompanied where appropriate by the Deputy Secretary-General's comments, shall be submitted by 1 July to the States referred to in Article 25.
CHAPTER VII Final provisions Article 49 The introduction of the provisions of the Schengen acquis concerning the Schengen information system for a State other than those referred to in Article 25 (hereinafter referred to as %quot%other State%quot%) shall entail: (a) readjustment of the share of contributions of the States referred to in Article 25 as laid down in Article 26; (b) adjustment of the contributions of the States referred to in Article 25 in order to establish the contribution payable by the other State to the operation of Sisnet for the whole of the current financial year; (c) adjustment of the contributions of the States referred to in Article 25 in order to establish the proportion of earlier Sisnet installation costs to be borne by the other State.
This Financial Regulation shall apply to the adoption of the budget with respect to the revenue and expenditure required to meet the obligations arising out of any action taken pursuant to Article 1 of Decision 1999/870/EC, for the financial year in which this Regulation enters into force. 2.
Done at Brussels, 27 March 2000.
