The Centre shall have legal personality. 2.
Alternates for the representatives mentioned in paragraph 1 shall be appointed to replace the representatives in their absence. 3.
Article 7 The Management Board shall adopt its own Rules of Procedure.
The Management Board shall adopt the Centre's annual work programme on the basis of a draft prepared by the Director. 2.
By 31 January each year at the latest, the Management Board shall adopt an annual report on the Centre's activities.
The Director shall be the legal representative of the Centre.
By 31 March each year, the Director shall draw up a draft statement of estimates of the Centre's revenue and expenditure for the following financial year and shall transmit them to the Management Board, together with an establishment plan. 2.
The Management Board shall adopt the statements of estimates accompanied by the establishment plan and shall transmit them immediately to the Commission, which, on that basis, shall establish the estimates corresponding to the subsidies granted to the bodies listed in Article 2 in the preliminary draft budget which it places before the Council pursuant to Article 203 of the Treaty. 3.
The Director shall implement the Centre's budget. 2.
By 31 March each year, the Director shall send the Commission, the Management Board and the Court of Auditors the accounts for all the Centre's revenue and expenditure in respect of the preceding financial year.
The Court of Auditors shall examine them in accordance with Article 188c of the Treaty. 4.
The Management Board shall give a discharge to the Director of the Centre in respect of implementation of the budget.
Article 15 After consulting the Commission and the Court of Auditors, the Management Board shall adopt internal financial provisions specifying, in particular, the procedure for establishing and implementing the Centre's budget.
Article 16 The Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Communities shall apply to the Centre.
The contractual liability of the Centre shall be governed by the law applicable to the contract in question.
Article 19 The operating procedures of the Centre as defined in this Regulation may be reviewed by the Council on the basis of a proposal from the Commission and after the Opinion of the European Parliament has been given, no later than three years after the end of the start-up period of the Centre, which will not exceed three budgetary years.
Article 20 This Regulation shall enter into force on the seventh day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Done at Brussels, 28 November 1994.
KINKEL (1) OJ No C 323, 30. 11. 1993, p. 1.
STATEMENT 3 JOINT STATEMENT BY THE COUNCIL AND THE COMMISSION REGARDING ARTICLE 17 The Council and the Commission consider that, in view of its tasks and the structure of its budget, the Translation Centre should make use of staff management procedures that are as flexible as possible without jeopardizing the performance of its role.
STATEMENT 6 STATEMENT BY THE COMMISSION The Commission will take the initiative, in accordance with its powers, of proposing in the Heads of Administration Group the rapid creation under the aegis of this Group of an Interinstitutional Committee for Translation with the task of promoting coordination among the translation services of the various institutions, including the Translation Centre for the bodies of the Union.
