Implementing powers should be conferred on the Commission to adopt detailed implementing provisions. (6) This Regulation respects the fundamental rights and observes the principles recognised in particular by the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. (7) Security should be enhanced not only for ships used in international shipping and the port facilities which serve them, but also for ships operating domestic services within the Community and their port facilities, in particular passenger ships, on account of the number of human lives which such trade puts at risk. (8) Part B of the ISPS Code comprises a number of recommendations which should be made mandatory within the Community in order to make uniform progress towards achievement of the security objective described in recital 2. (9) In order to contribute to the recognised and necessary objective of promoting intra-Community short-sea traffic, the Member States should be asked to conclude, in the light of regulation 11 of the special measures to enhance maritime security of the SOLAS Convention, the agreements on security arrangements for scheduled maritime traffic within the Community on fixed routes using dedicated port facilities, without this compromising the general standard of security sought. (10) Permanently applying all the security rules provided for in this Regulation to port facilities situated in ports which only occasionally serve international shipping might be disproportionate.
The Regulation is also intended to provide a basis for the harmonised interpretation and implementation and Community monitoring of the special measures to enhance maritime security adopted by the Diplomatic Conference of the IMO on 12 December 2002, which amended the 1974 International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea (SOLAS Convention) and established the International Ship and Port Facility Security Code (ISPS Code).
Article 2 Definitions For the purposes of this Regulation: 1. %quot%special measures to enhance maritime security of the SOLAS Convention%quot% means the amendments, as attached as Annex I to this Regulation, inserting the new Chapter XI-2 into the Annex to the SOLAS Convention of the IMO, in its up-to-date version, 2. %quot%ISPS Code%quot% means the International Ship and Port Facility Security Code of the IMO, in its up-to-date version, 3. %quot%Part A of the ISPS Code%quot% means the Preamble and the mandatory requirements forming Part A of the ISPS Code, as attached as Annex II to this Regulation, concerning the provisions of Chapter XI-2 of the Annex to the SOLAS Convention in its up-to-date version, 4. %quot%Part B of the ISPS Code%quot% means the guidelines forming Part B of the ISPS Code, as attached as Annex III to this Regulation, regarding the provisions of chapter XI-2 of the Annex to the SOLAS Convention, as amended, and of Part A of the ISPS Code, in its up-to-date version, 5. %quot%maritime security%quot% means the combination of preventive measures intended to protect shipping and port facilities against threats of intentional unlawful acts, 6. %quot%focal point for maritime security%quot% means the body designated by each Member State to serve as a contact point for the Commission and other Member States and to facilitate, follow up and inform on the application of the maritime security measures laid down in this Regulation, 7. %quot%competent authority for maritime security%quot% means an authority designated by a Member State to coordinate, implement and monitor the application of the security measures laid down in this Regulation in respect of ships and/or one or more port facilities.
In respect of international shipping, Member States shall apply in full, by 1 July 2004, the special measures to enhance maritime security of the SOLAS Convention and Part A of the ISPS Code, in accordance with the conditions and with respect to the ships, companies and port facilities referred to therein. 2.
In respect of domestic shipping, Member States shall apply, by 1 July 2005, the special measures to enhance maritime security of the SOLAS Convention and Part A of the ISPS Code to Class A passenger ships within the meaning of Article 4 of Council Directive 98/18/EC of 17 March 1998 on safety rules and standards for passenger ships(5) operating domestic services and to their companies, as defined in regulation IX-1 of the SOLAS Convention, and to the port facilities serving them. 3.
Member States shall, after a mandatory security risk assessment, decide the extent to which they will apply, by 1 July 2007, the provisions of this Regulation to different categories of ships operating domestic services other than those referred to in paragraph 2, their companies and the port facilities serving them.
When implementing the provisions required pursuant to paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, Member States shall take fully into account the guidelines contained in Part B of the ISPS Code. 5.
Member States shall conform to the following paragraphs of Part B of the ISPS Code as if they were mandatory: - 1.12 (revision of ship security plans), - 1.16 (port facility security assessment), - 4.1 (protection of the confidentiality of security plans and assessments), - 4.4 (recognised security organisations), - 4.5 (minimum competencies of recognised security organisations), - 4.8 (setting the security level), - 4.14, 4.15, 4.16 (contact points and information on port facility security plans), - 4.18 (identification documents), - 4.24 (ships' application of the security measures recommended by the State in whose territorial waters they are sailing), - 4.28 (manning level), - 4.41 (communication of information when entry into port is denied or the ship is expelled from port), - 4.45 (ships from a State which is not party to the Convention), - 6.1 (company's obligation to provide the master with information on the ship's operators), - 8.3 to 8.10 (minimum standards for the ship security assessment), - 9.2 (minimum standards for the ship security plan), - 9.4 (independence of recognised security organisations), - 13.6 and 13.7 (frequency of security drills and exercises for ships' crews and for company and ship security officers), - 15.3 to 15.4 (minimum standards for the port facility security assessment), - 16.3 and 16.8 (minimum standards for the port facility security plan), - 18.5 and 18.6 (frequency of security drills and exercises in port facilities and for port facility security officers). 6.
Article 4 Communication of information 1.
Each Member State shall communicate to the IMO, the Commission and the other Member States the information required pursuant to regulation 13 (Communication of information) of the special measures to enhance maritime security of the SOLAS Convention. 2.
Each Member State shall communicate to the Commission and the other Member States the contact details of the contact officials referred to in paragraph 4.16 of Part B of the ISPS Code and the information provided for in paragraph 4.41 of Part B of the ISPS Code when a ship is expelled from or refused entry to a Community port. 3.
The periodic review of such agreements provided for in paragraph 4 of regulation 11 of the special measures to enhance maritime security must take place at intervals of no more than five years. 4.
Member States may adopt, for domestic shipping and the port facilities as referred to in Articles 3(2) and 3(3) of this Regulation, equivalent security arrangements as provided for in regulation 12 (equivalent security arrangements) of the special measures to enhance maritime security of the SOLAS Convention, provided such security arrangements are as least as effective as those prescribed in Chapter XI-2 of the SOLAS Convention and the relevant mandatory provisions of the ISPS Code.
Article 6 Provision of security information prior to entry into a port of a Member State 1.
When a ship which is subject to the requirements of the special measures to enhance maritime security of the SOLAS Convention and of the ISPS Code or of Article 3 of this Regulation announces its intention to enter a port of a Member State, the competent authority for maritime security of that Member State shall require that the information referred to in paragraph 2.1 of regulation 9 (Ships intending to enter a port of another Contracting Government) of the special measures to enhance maritime security of the SOLAS Convention be provided.
Article 7 Exemptions from the provision of security information prior to entry into a port 1.
The company must establish an internal system to ensure that, upon request 24 hours a day and without delay, the said information can be sent to the competent authority for maritime security. 2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2, a Member State may, on security grounds and on a case-by-case basis, request the provision of the information referred to in paragraph 2.1 of regulation 9 of the special measures to enhance maritime security of the SOLAS Convention prior to entry into a port.
Article 8 Security checks in Member State ports 1.
Certificate verification, as defined in paragraph 1.1 of regulation 9 (Control of ships in port) of the special measures to enhance maritime security of the SOLAS Convention, shall be carried out in the port either by the competent authority for maritime security defined in Article 2(7) of this Regulation or by the inspectors defined in Article 2(5) of Directive 95/21/EC. 2.
Where the officer conducting the certificate verification referred to in paragraph 1 has clear grounds for believing that the ship is not in compliance with the requirements of the special measures to enhance maritime security of the SOLAS Convention and of the ISPS Code, but does not belong to an authority which in that Member State is responsible for carrying out the measures provided for in paragraphs 1.2 and 1.3 of regulation 9 of the special measures to enhance maritime security of the SOLAS Convention, s/he shall immediately refer the matter to the said authority.
Article 9 Implementation and conformity checking 1.
Member States shall designate a focal point for maritime security by 1 July 2004. 3.
The officials mandated by the Commission to conduct such inspections in accordance with paragraph 4 shall exercise their powers upon production of an authorisation in writing issued by the Commission and specifying the subject-matter, the purpose of the inspection and the date on which it is to begin.
Article 10 Integration of amendments to international instruments 1.
The applicable international instruments referred to in Article 2, which are applied in accordance with Article 3(1), shall be those which have entered into force, including the most recent amendments thereto, with the exception of the amendments excluded from the scope of this Regulation resulting from the conformity checking procedure established by paragraph 5. 2.
In accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 11(2), provisions may be adopted in order to define harmonised procedures for the application of the mandatory provisions of the ISPS Code, without broadening the scope of this Regulation. 4.
In the circumstances referred to in paragraph 5, the procedure for checking conformity shall be initiated by the Commission, which, where appropriate, may act at the request of a Member State.
Article 13 Dissemination of information 1.
Article 14 Sanctions Member States shall ensure that effective, proportionate and dissuasive sanctions for breaching the provisions of this Regulation are introduced.
Article 15 Entry into force This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Done at Strasbourg, 31 March 2004.
Cox For the Council The President D.
This includes areas such as anchorages, waiting berths and approaches from seaward, as appropriate.. 10 Ship to ship activity means any activity not related to a port facility that involves the transfer of goods or persons from one ship to another.. 11 Designated Authority means the organisation(s) or the administration(s) identified, within the Contracting Government, as responsible for ensuring the implementation of the provisions of this chapter pertaining to port facility security and ship/port interface, from the point of view of the port facility.. 12 International Ship and Port Facility Security (ISPS) Code means the International Code for the Security of Ships and of Port Facilities consisting of Part A (the provisions of which shall be treated as mandatory) and part B (the provisions of which shall be treated as recommendatory), as adopted, on 12 December 2002, by resolution 2 of the Conference of Contracting Governments to the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea, 1974 as may be amended by the Organisation, provided that:. 1 amendments to part A of the Code are adopted, brought into force and take effect in accordance with article VIII of the present Convention concerning the amendment procedures applicable to the Annex other than chapter I; and. 2 amendments to part B of the Code are adopted by the Maritime Safety Committee in accordance with its Rules of Procedure.. 13 Security incident means any suspicious act or circumstance threatening the security of a ship, including a mobile offshore drilling unit and a high speed craft, or of a port facility or of any ship/port interface or any ship to ship activity.. 14 Security level means the qualification of the degree of risk that a security incident will be attempted or will occur.. 15 Declaration of security means an agreement reached between a ship and either a port facility or another ship with which it interfaces specifying the security measures each will implement.. 16 Recognised security organisation means an organisation with appropriate expertise in security matters and with appropriate knowledge of ship and port operations authorised to carry out an assessment, or a verification, or an approval or a certification activity, required by this chapter or by part A of the ISPS Code. 2 The term 'ship', when used in regulations 3 to 13, includes mobile offshore drilling units and high-speed craft. 3 The term 'all ships', when used in this chapter, means any ship to which this chapter applies. 4 The term 'Contracting Government', when used in regulations 3, 4, 7, 10, 11, 12 and 13 includes a reference to the 'Designated Authority'.
mobile offshore drilling units; and. 2 port facilities serving such ships engaged on international voyages. 2 Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1.2, Contracting Governments shall decide the extent of application of this chapter and of the relevant sections of part A of the ISPS Code to those port facilities within their territory which, although used primarily by ships not engaged on international voyages, are required, occasionally, to serve ships arriving or departing on an international voyage. 2.1 Contracting Governments shall base their decisions, under paragraph 2, on a port facility security assessment carried out in accordance with the provisions of part A of the ISPS Code. 2.2 Any decision which a Contracting Government makes, under paragraph 2, shall not compromise the level of security intended to be achieved by this chapter or by part A of the ISPS Code. 3 This chapter does not apply to warships, naval auxiliaries or other ships owned or operated by a Contracting Government and used only on Government non-commercial service. 4 Nothing in this chapter shall prejudice the rights or obligations of States under international law.
When changes in security level occur, security level information shall be updated as the circumstance dictates. 2 Contracting Governments shall set security levels and ensure the provision of security level information to port facilities within their territory, and to ships prior to entering a port or whilst in a port within their territory.
Regulation 4 Requirements for Companies and ships 1 Companies shall comply with the relevant requirements of this chapter and of part A of the ISPS Code, taking into account the guidance given in part B of the ISPS Code. 2 Ships shall comply with the relevant requirements of this chapter and of part A of the ISPS Code, taking into account the guidance given in part B of the ISPS Code, and such compliance shall be verified and certified as provided for in part A of the ISPS Code. 3 Prior to entering a port or whilst in a port within the territory of a Contracting Government, a ship shall comply with the requirements for the security level set by that Contracting Government, if such security level is higher than the security level set by the Administration for that ship. 4 Ships shall respond without undue delay to any change to a higher security level. 5 Where a ship is not in compliance with the requirements of this chapter or of part A of the ISPS Code, or cannot comply with the requirements of the security level set by the Administration or by another Contracting Government and applicable to that ship, then the ship shall notify the appropriate competent authority prior to conducting any ship/port interface or prior to entry into port, whichever occurs earlier.
Regulation 6 Ship security alert system 1 All ships shall be provided with a ship security alert system, as follows:. 1 ships constructed on or after 1 July 2004;. 2 passenger ships, including high-speed passenger craft, constructed before 1 July 2004, not later than the first survey of the radio installation after 1 July 2004;. 3 oil tankers, chemical tankers, gas carriers, bulk carriers and cargo high speed craft, of 500 gross tonnage and upwards constructed before 1 July 2004, not later than the first survey of the radio installation after 1 July 2004; and. 4 other cargo ships of 500 gross tonnage and upward and mobile offshore drilling units constructed before 1 July 2004, not later than the first survey of the radio installation after 1 July 2006. 2.
The ship security alert system, when activated, shall:. 1 initiate and transmit a ship-to-shore security alert to a competent authority designated by the Administration, which in these circumstances may include the Company, identifying the ship, its location and indicating that the security of the ship is under threat or it has been compromised;. 2 not send the ship security alert to any other ships;. 3 not raise any alarm on-board the ship; and. 4 continue the ship security alert until deactivated and/or reset. 3 The ship security alert system shall:. 1 be capable of being activated from the navigation bridge and in at least one other location; and. 2 conform to performance standards not inferior to those adopted by the Organisation. 4 The ship security alert system activation points shall be designed so as to prevent the inadvertent initiation of the ship security alert. 5 The requirement for a ship security alert system may be complied with by using the radio installation fitted for compliance with the requirements of chapter IV, provided all requirements of this regulation are complied with. 6 When an Administration receives notification of a ship security alert, that Administration shall immediately notify the State(s) in the vicinity of which the ship is presently operating. 7 When a Contracting Government receives notification of a ship security alert from a ship which is not entitled to fly its flag, that Contracting Government shall immediately notify the relevant Administration and, if appropriate, the State(s) in the vicinity of which the ship is presently operating.
Regulation 9 Control and compliance measures 1 Control of ships in port 1.1 For the purpose of this chapter, every ship to which this chapter applies is subject to control when in a port of another Contracting Government by officers duly authorised by that Government, who may be the same as those carrying out the functions of regulation I/19.
Such control shall be limited to verifying that there is onboard a valid International Ship Security Certificate or a valid Interim International Ship Security Certificate issued under the provisions of part A of the ISPS Code (Certificate), which if valid shall be accepted, unless there are clear grounds for believing that the ship is not in compliance with the requirements of this chapter or part A of the ISPS Code. 1.2 When there are such clear grounds, or when no valid Certificate is produced when required, the officers duly authorised by the Contracting Government shall impose any one or more control measures in relation to that ship as provided in paragraph 1.3.
Such control measures may additionally or alternatively include other lesser administrative or corrective measures. 2 Ships intending to enter a port of another Contracting Government 2.1 For the purpose of this chapter, a Contracting Government may require that ships intending to enter its ports provide the following information to officers duly authorised by that Government to ensure compliance with this chapter prior to entry into port with the aim of avoiding the need to impose control measures or steps:. 1 that the ship possesses a valid Certificate and the name of its issuing authority;. 2 the security level at which the ship is currently operating;. 3 the security level at which the ship operated in any previous port where it has conducted a ship/port interface within the timeframe specified in paragraph 2.3;. 4 any special or additional security measures that were taken by the ship in any previous port where it has conducted a ship/port interface within the timeframe specified in paragraph 2.3;. 5 that the appropriate ship security procedures were maintained during any ship to ship activity within the timeframe specified in paragraph 2.3; or. 6 other practical security related information (but not details of the ship security plan), taking into account the guidance given in part B of the ISPS Code.
The master may decline to provide such information on the understanding that failure to do so may result in denial of entry into port. 2.3 The ship shall keep records of the information referred to in paragraph 2.1 for the last 10 calls at port facilities. 2.4 If, after receipt of the information described in paragraph 2.1, officers duly authorised by the Contracting Government of the port in which the ship intends to enter have clear grounds for believing that the ship is in non-compliance with the requirements of this chapter or part A of the ISPS Code, such officers shall attempt to establish communication with and between the ship and the Administration in order to rectify the non-compliance.
Denial of entry into port, pursuant to paragraphs 2.4 and 2.5, or expulsion from port, pursuant to paragraphs 1.1 to 1.3, shall only be imposed where the officers duly authorised by the Contracting Government have clear grounds to believe that the ship poses an immediate threat to the security or safety of persons, or of ships or other property and there are no other appropriate means for removing that threat. 3.4 The control measures referred to in paragraph 1.3 and the steps referred to in paragraph 2.5 shall only be imposed, pursuant to this regulation, until the non-compliance giving rise to the control measures or steps has been corrected to the satisfaction of the Contracting Government, taking into account actions proposed by the ship or the Administration, if any. 3.5 When Contracting Governments exercise control under paragraph 1 or take steps under paragraph 2:. 1 all possible efforts shall be made to avoid a ship being unduly detained or delayed.
The Administration, which allows such security measures, shall communicate to the Organisation particulars thereof. 2 When implementing this chapter and part A of the ISPS Code, a Contracting Government may allow a particular port facility or a group of port facilities located within its territory, other than those covered by an agreement concluded under regulation 11, to implement security measures equivalent to those prescribed in this chapter or in Part A of the ISPS Code, provided such security measures are at least as effective as those prescribed in this chapter or part A of the ISPS Code.
Regulation 13 Communication of information 1 Contracting Governments shall, not later than 1 July 2004, communicate to the Organisation and shall make available for the information of Companies and ships:. 1 the names and contact details of their national authority or authorities responsible for ship and port facility security;. 2 the locations within their territory covered by the approved port facility security plans;. 3 the names and contact details of those who have been designated to be available at all times to receive and act upon the ship-to-shore security alerts, referred to in regulation 6.2.1;. 4 the names and contact details of those who have been designated to be available at all times to receive and act upon any communications from Contracting Governments exercising control and compliance measures, referred to in regulation 9.3.1; and. 5 the names and contact details of those who have been designated to be available at all times to provide advice or assistance to ships and to whom ships can report any security concerns, referred to in regulation 7.2; and thereafter update such information as and when changes relating thereto occur.
The Organisation shall circulate such particulars to other Contracting Governments for the information of their officers. 3 Contracting Governments shall, not later than 1 July 2004 communicate to the Organisation a list showing the approved port facility security plans for the port facilities located within their territory together with the location or locations covered by each approved port facility security plan and the corresponding date of approval and thereafter shall further communicate when any of the following changes take place:. 1 changes in the location or locations covered by an approved port facility security plan are to be introduced or have been introduced.
In such cases, the information to be communicated shall indicate the location or locations covered by the plan and the date of approval. 4 Contracting Governments shall, at five year intervals after 1 July 2004, communicate to the Organisation a revised and updated list showing all the approved port facility security plans for the port facilities located within their territory together with the location or locations covered by each approved port facility security plan and the corresponding date of approval (and the date of approval of any amendments thereto) which will supersede and replace all information communicated to the Organisation, pursuant to paragraph 3, during the preceding five years. 5 Contracting Governments shall communicate to the Organisation information that an agreement under regulation 11 has been concluded.
The Diplomatic Conference (9 to 13 December 2002) also adopted amendments to the existing provisions of the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea, 1974 (SOLAS 74) accelerating the implementation of the requirement to fit Automatic Identification Systems and adopted new regulations in chapter XI-1 of SOLAS 74 covering marking of the Ship Identification Number and the carriage of a Continuous Synopsis Record.
Factors to be considered in setting the appropriate security level include:. 1 the degree that the threat information is credible;. 2 the degree that the threat information is corroborated;. 3 the degree that the threat information is specific or imminent; and. 4 the potential consequences of such a security incident. 4.2 Contracting Governments, when they set security level 3, shall issue, as necessary, appropriate instructions and shall provide security-related information to the ships and port facilities that may be affected. 4.3 Contracting Governments may delegate to a recognised security organisation certain of their security-related duties under chapter XI-2 and this Part of the Code with the exception of:. 1 setting of the applicable security level;. 2 approving a port facility security assessment and subsequent amendments to an approved assessment;. 3 determining the port facilities which will be required to designate a port facility security officer;. 4 approving a port facility security plan and subsequent amendments to an approved plan;. 5 exercising control and compliance measures pursuant to regulation XI-2/9; and. 6 establishing the requirements for a Declaration of Security. 4.4 Contracting Governments shall, to the extent they consider appropriate, test the effectiveness of the ship security plans or the port facility security plans, or of amendments to such plans, they have approved, or, in the case of ships, of plans which have been approved on their behalf. 5.
DECLARATION OF SECURITY 5.1 Contracting Governments shall determine when a Declaration of Security is required by assessing the risk the ship/port interface or ship-to-ship activity poses to persons, property or the environment. 5.2 A ship can request completion of a Declaration of Security when:. 1 the ship is operating at a higher security level than the port facility or another ship it is interfacing with;. 2 there is an agreement on a Declaration of Security between Contracting Governments covering certain international voyages or specific ships on those voyages;. 3 there has been a security threat or a security incident involving the ship or involving the port facility, as applicable;. 4 the ship is at a port which is not required to have and implement an approved port facility security plan; or. 5 the ship is conducting ship-to-ship activities with another ship not required to have and implement an approved ship security plan. 5.3 Requests for the completion of a Declaration of Security, under this section, shall be acknowledged by the applicable port facility or ship. 5.4 The Declaration of Security shall be completed by:. 1 the master or the ship security officer on behalf of the ship(s); and, if appropriate,. 2 the port facility security officer or, if the Contracting Government determines otherwise, by any other body responsible for shore-side security, on behalf of the port facility. 5.5 The Declaration of Security shall address the security requirements that could be shared between a port facility and a ship (or between ships) and shall state the responsibility for each. 5.6 Contracting Governments shall specify, bearing in mind the provisions of regulation XI-2/9.2.3, the minimum period for which Declarations of Security shall be kept by the port facilities located within their territory. 5.7 Administrations shall specify, bearing in mind the provisions of regulation XI-2/9.2.3, the minimum period for which Declarations of Security shall be kept by ships entitled to fly their flag. 6 OBLIGATIONS OF THE COMPANY 6.1 The Company shall ensure that the ship security plan contains a clear statement emphasising the master's authority.
SHIP SECURITY 7.1 A ship is required to act upon the security levels set by Contracting Governments as set out below. 7.2 At security level 1, the following activities shall be carried out, through appropriate measures, on all ships, taking into account the guidance given in part B of this Code, in order to identify and take preventive measures against security incidents:. 1 ensuring the performance of all ship security duties;. 2 controlling access to the ship;. 3 controlling the embarkation of persons and their effects;. 4 monitoring restricted areas to ensure that only authorised persons have access;. 5 monitoring of deck areas and areas surrounding the ship;. 6 supervising the handling of cargo and ship's stores; and. 7 ensuring that security communication is readily available. 7.3 At security level 2, additional protective measures, specified in the ship security plan, shall be implemented for each activity detailed in section 7.2, taking into account the guidance given in part B of this Code. 7.4 At security level 3, further specific protective measures, specified in the ship security plan, shall be implemented for each activity detailed in section 7.2, taking into account the guidance given in part B of this Code. 7.5 Whenever security level 2 or 3 is set by the Administration, the ship shall acknowledge receipt of the instructions on change of the security level. 7.6 Prior to entering a port or whilst in a port within the territory of a Contracting Government that has set security level 2 or 3, the ship shall acknowledge receipt of this instruction and shall confirm to the port facility security officer the initiation of the implementation of the appropriate measures and procedures as detailed in the ship security plan, and in the case of security level 3, in instructions issued by the Contracting Government which has set security level 3.
The plan shall make provisions for the three security levels as defined in this Part of the Code. 9.1.1 Subject to the provisions of section 9.2.1, a recognised security organisation may prepare the ship security plan for a specific ship. 9.2 The Administration may entrust the review and approval of ship security plans, or of amendments to a previously approved plan, to recognised security organisations. 9.2.1 In such cases, the recognised security organisation undertaking the review and approval of a ship security plan, or its amendments, for a specific ship shall not have been involved in either the preparation of the ship security assessment or of the ship security plan, or of the amendments, under review. 9.3 The submission of a ship security plan, or of amendments to a previously approved plan, for approval shall be accompanied by the security assessment on the basis of which the plan, or the amendments, has been developed. 9.4 Such a plan shall be developed, taking into account the guidance given in part B of this Code, and shall be written in the working language or languages of the ship.
The plan shall address, at least, the following:. 1 measures designed to prevent weapons, dangerous substances and devices intended for use against persons, ships or ports and the carriage of which is not authorised from being taken on board the ship;. 2 identification of the restricted areas and measures for the prevention of unauthorised access to them;. 3 measures for the prevention of unauthorised access to the ship;. 4 procedures for responding to security threats or breaches of security, including provisions for maintaining critical operations of the ship or ship/port interface;. 5 procedures for responding to any security instructions Contracting Governments may give at security level 3;. 6 procedures for evacuation in case of security threats or breaches of security;. 7 duties of shipboard personnel assigned security responsibilities and of other shipboard personnel on security aspects;. 8 procedures for auditing the security activities;. 9 procedures for training, drills and exercises associated with the plan;. 10 procedures for interfacing with port facility security activities;. 11 procedures for the periodic review of the plan and for updating;. 12 procedures for reporting security incidents;. 13 identification of the ship security officer;. 14 identification of the company security officer, including 24-hour contact details;. 15 procedures to ensure the inspection, testing, calibration, and maintenance of any security equipment provided on board;. 16 frequency for testing or calibration of any security equipment provided on board;. 17 identification of the locations where the ship security alert system activation points are provided; and. 18 procedures, instructions and guidance on the use of the ship security alert system, including the testing, activation, deactivation and resetting and to limit false alerts. 9.4.1 Personnel conducting internal audits of the security activities specified in the plan or evaluating its implementation shall be independent of the activities being audited unless this is impracticable due to the size and the nature of the Company or of the ship. 9.5 The Administration shall determine which changes to an approved ship security plan or to any security equipment specified in an approved plan shall not be implemented unless the relevant amendments to the plan are approved by the Administration.
In such a case, they shall be protected by procedures aimed at preventing their unauthorised deletion, destruction or amendment. 10.4 The records shall be protected from unauthorised access or disclosure. 11 COMPANY SECURITY OFFICER 11.1 The Company shall designate a company security officer.
Security measures and procedures shall be applied at the port facility in such a manner as to cause a minimum of interference with, or delay to, passengers, ship, ship's personnel and visitors, goods and services. 14.2 At security level 1, the following activities shall be carried out through appropriate measures in all port facilities, taking into account the guidance given in part B of this Code, in order to identify and take preventive measures against security incidents:. 1 ensuring the performance of all port facility security duties;. 2 controlling access to the port facility;. 3 monitoring of the port facility, including anchoring and berthing area(s);. 4 monitoring restricted areas to ensure that only authorised persons have access;. 5 supervising the handling of cargo;. 6 supervising the handling of ship's stores; and. 7 ensuring that security communication is readily available. 14.3 At security level 2, additional protective measures, specified in the port facility security plan, shall be implemented for each activity detailed in section 14.2, taking into account the guidance given in part B of this Code. 14.4 At security level 3, further specific protective measures, specified in the port facility security plan, shall be implemented for each activity detailed in section 14.2, taking into account the guidance given in part B of this Code. 14.4.1 In addition, at security level 3, port facilities are required to respond to and implement any security instructions given by the Contracting Government within whose territory the port facility is located. 14.5 When a port facility security officer is advised that a ship encounters difficulties in complying with the requirements of chapter XI-2 or this part or in implementing the appropriate measures and procedures as detailed in the ship security plan, and in the case of security level 3 following any security instructions given by the Contracting Government within whose territory the port facility is located, the port facility security officer and the ship security officer shall liaise and coordinate appropriate actions. 14.6 When a port facility security officer is advised that a ship is at a security level which is higher than that of the port facility, the port facility security officer shall report the matter to the competent authority and shall liaise with the ship security officer and coordinate appropriate actions, if necessary. 15 PORT FACILITY SECURITY ASSESSMENT 15.1 The port facility security assessment is an essential and integral part of the process of developing and updating the port facility security plan. 15.2 The port facility security assessment shall be carried out by the Contracting Government within whose territory the port facility is located.
The report shall be protected from unauthorised access or disclosure. 16 PORT FACILITY SECURITY PLAN 16.1 A port facility security plan shall be developed and maintained, on the basis of a port facility security assessment for each port facility, adequate for the ship/port interface.
Any Contracting Government which allows such an alternative arrangement shall communicate to the Organisation particulars thereof. 17 PORT FACILITY SECURITY OFFICER 17.1 A port facility security officer shall be designated for each port facility.
Such intermediate verification shall be endorsed on the certificate;. 4 any additional verifications as determined by the Administration. 19.1.2 The verifications of ships shall be carried out by officers of the Administration.
The Administration may, however, entrust the verifications to a recognised security organisation referred to in regulation XI-2/1. 19.1.3 In every case, the Administration concerned shall fully guarantee the completeness and efficiency of the verification and shall undertake to ensure the necessary arrangements to satisfy this obligation. 19.1.4 The security system and any associated security equipment of the ship after verification shall be maintained to conform with the provisions of regulations XI-2/4.2 and XI-2/6, of this Part of the Code and of the approved ship security plan.
However, after 1 July 2004, for the purposes of:. 1 a ship without a Certificate, on delivery or prior to its entry or re-entry into service;. 2 transfer of a ship from the flag of a Contracting Government to the flag of another Contracting Government;. 3 transfer of a ship to the flag of a Contracting Government from a State which is not a Contracting Government; or. 4 a Company assuming the responsibility for the operation of a ship not previously operated by that Company until the Certificate referred to in section 19.2 is issued, the Administration may cause an Interim International Ship Security Certificate to be issued, in a form corresponding to the model given in the appendix to this Part of the Code. 19.4.2 An Interim International Ship Security Certificate shall only be issued when the Administration or recognised security organisation, on behalf of the Administration, has verified that:. 1 the ship security assessment required by this Part of the Code has been completed;. 2 a copy of the ship security plan meeting the requirements of chapter XI-2 and part A of this Code is provided on board, has been submitted for review and approval, and is being implemented on the ship;. 3 the ship is provided with a ship security alert system meeting the requirements of regulation XI-2/6, if required;. 4 the company security officer:. 1 has ensured:. 1 the review of the ship security plan for compliance with this Part of the Code;. 2 that the plan has been submitted for approval; and. 3 that the plan is being implemented on the ship; and. 2 has established the necessary arrangements, including arrangements for drills, exercises and internal audits, through which the company security officer is satisfied that the ship will successfully complete the required verification in accordance with section 19.1.1.1, within 6 months;. 5 arrangements have been made for carrying out the required verifications under section 19.1.1.1;. 6 the master, the ship security officer and other ship's personnel with specific security duties are familiar with their duties and responsibilities as specified in this Part of the Code; and with the relevant provisions of the ship security plan placed on board; and have been provided such information in the working language of the ship's personnel or languages understood by them; and. 7 the ship security officer meets the requirements of this Part of the Code. 19.4.3 An Interim International Ship Security Certificate may be issued by the Administration or by a recognised security organisation authorised to act on its behalf. 19.4.4 An Interim International Ship Security Certificate shall be valid for 6 months, or until the Certificate required by section 19.2 is issued, whichever comes first, and may not be extended. 19.4.5 No Contracting Government shall cause a subsequent, consecutive Interim International Ship Security Certificate to be issued to a ship if, in the judgement of the Administration or the recognised security organisation, one of the purposes of the ship or a Company in requesting such certificate is to avoid full compliance with chapter XI-2 and this Part of the Code beyond the period of the initial Interim Certificate as specified in section 19.4.4. 19.4.6 For the purposes of regulation XI-2/9, Contracting Governments may, prior to accepting an Interim International Ship Security Certificate as a valid Certificate, ensure that the requirements of sections 19.4.2.4 to 19.4.2.6 have been met.
Appendix to Part A Appendix 1 %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2004129EN.004102.TIF%quot%%gt% %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2004129EN.004201.TIF%quot%%gt% %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2004129EN.004301.TIF%quot%%gt% %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2004129EN.004401.TIF%quot%%gt% Appendix 2 %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2004129EN.004502.TIF%quot%%gt%%quot% ANNEX III %quot%PART B GUIDANCE REGARDING THE PROVISIONS OF CHAPTER XI-2 OF THE ANNEX TO THE INTERNATIONAL CONVENTION FOR THE SAFETY OF LIFE AT SEA, 1974 AS AMENDED AND PART A OF THIS CODE 1.
Responsibilities of Contracting Governments 1.6 Contracting Governments have, under the provisions of chapter XI-2 and part A of this Code, various responsibilities, which, amongst others, include: - setting the applicable security level; - approving the ship security plan (SSP) and relevant amendments to a previously approved plan; - verifying the compliance of ships with the provisions of chapter XI-2 and part A of this Code and issuing to ships the International Ship Security Certificate; - determining which of the port facilities located within their territory are required to designate a port facility security officer (PFSO) who will be responsible for the preparation of the port facility security plan; - ensuring completion and approval of the port facility security assessment (PFSA) and of any subsequent amendments to a previously approved assessment; - approving the port facility security plan (PFSP) and any subsequent amendments to a previously approved plan; - exercising control and compliance measures; - testing approved plans; and - communicating information to the International Maritime Organisation and to the shipping and port industries. 1.7 Contracting Governments can designate, or establish, Designated Authorities within Government to undertake, with respect to port facilities, their security duties under chapter XI-2 and part A of this Code and allow recognised security organisations to carry out certain work with respect to port facilities, but the final decision on the acceptance and approval of this work should be given by the Contracting Government or the Designated Authority.
Contracting Governments should remind ships operating in their territorial sea, or having communicated an intention to enter their territorial sea, of any temporary restricted areas that they have published. 4.24 Contracting Governments should recommend that ships operating in their territorial sea, or having communicated an intention to enter their territorial sea, implement expeditiously, for the ship's protection and for the protection of other ships in the vicinity, any security measure the Contracting Government may have advised. 4.25 The plans prepared by the Contracting Governments for the purposes given in paragraph 4.22 should include information on an appropriate point of contact, available on a 24-hour basis, within the Contracting Government including the Administration.
Even if a valid Certificate is on board the ship, the duly authorised officers may still have clear grounds for believing that the ship is not in compliance based on their professional judgement. 4.33 Examples of possible clear grounds under regulations XI-2/9.1 and XI-2/9.2 may include, when relevant:. 1 evidence from a review of the certificate that it is not valid or it has expired;. 2 evidence or reliable information that serious deficiencies exist in the security equipment, documentation or arrangements required by chapter XI-2 and part A of this Code;. 3 receipt of a report or complaint which, in the professional judgement of the duly authorised officer, contains reliable information clearly indicating that the ship does not comply with the requirements of chapter XI-2 or part A of this Code;. 4 evidence or observation gained by a duly authorised officer using professional judgement that the master or ship's personnel is not familiar with essential shipboard security procedures or cannot carry out drills related to the security of the ship or that such procedures or drills have not been carried out;. 5 evidence or observation gained by a duly authorised officer using professional judgement that key members of ship's personnel are not able to establish proper communication with any other key members of ship's personnel with security responsibilities on board the ship;. 6 evidence or reliable information that the ship has embarked persons or loaded stores or goods at a port facility or from another ship where either the port facility or the other ship is in violation of chapter XI-2 or part A of this Code, and the ship in question has not completed a Declaration of Security, nor taken appropriate, special or additional security measures or has not maintained appropriate ship security procedures;. 7 evidence or reliable information that the ship has embarked persons or loaded stores or goods at a port facility or from another source (e.g., another ship or helicopter transfer) where either the port facility or the other source is not required to comply with chapter XI-2 or part A of this Code, and the ship has not taken appropriate, special or additional security measures or has not maintained appropriate security procedures; and. 8 the ship holding a subsequent, consecutively issued Interim International Ship Security Certificate as described in section A/19.4, and, in the professional judgement of an officer duly authorised, one of the purposes of the ship or a Company in requesting such a Certificate is to avoid full compliance with chapter XI-2 and part A of this Code beyond the period of the initial Interim Certificate as described in section A/19.4.4. 4.34 The international law implications of regulation XI-2/9 are particularly relevant, and the regulation should be implemented with regulation XI-2/2.4 in mind, as the potential exists for situations where either measures will be taken which fall outside the scope of chapter XI-2, or where rights of affected ships, outside chapter XI-2, should be considered.
It is the sole intention of chapter XI-2 and part A of this Code to provide States with enough appropriate information to maintain their security integrity. 4.39 Examples of other practical security-related information that may be required as a condition of entry into port in order to assist with ensuring the safety and security of persons, port facilities, ships and other property include:. 1 information contained in the Continuous Synopsis Record;. 2 location of the ship at the time the report is made;. 3 expected time of arrival of the ship in port;. 4 crew list;. 5 general description of cargo aboard the ship;. 6 passenger list; and. 7 information required to be carried under regulation XI-2/5. 4.40 Regulation XI-2/9.2.5 allows the master of a ship, upon being informed that the coastal or port State will implement control measures under regulation XI-2/9.2, to withdraw the intention for the ship to enter port.
SHIP SECURITY Relevant guidance is provided under sections 8, 9 and 13. 8.
The on-scene security survey should examine and evaluate existing shipboard protective measures, procedures and operations for:. 1 ensuring the performance of all ship security duties;. 2 monitoring restricted areas to ensure that only authorised persons have access;. 3 controlling access to the ship, including any identification systems;. 4 monitoring of deck areas and areas surrounding the ship;. 5 controlling the embarkation of persons and their effects (accompanied and unaccompanied baggage and ship's personnel personal effects);. 6 supervising the handling of cargo and the delivery of ship's stores; and. 7 ensuring that ship security communication, information, and equipment are readily available. 9.
Administrations may prepare advice on the preparation and content of a SSP. 9.2 All SSPs should:. 1 detail the organisational structure of security for the ship;. 2 detail the ship's relationships with the Company, port facilities, other ships and relevant authorities with security responsibility;. 3 detail the communication systems to allow effective continuous communication within the ship and between the ship and others, including port facilities;. 4 detail the basic security measures for security level 1, both operational and physical, that will always be in place;. 5 detail the additional security measures that will allow the ship to progress without delay to security level 2 and, when necessary, to security level 3;. 6 provide for regular review, or audit, of the SSP and for its amendment in response to experience or changing circumstances; and. 7 detail reporting procedures to the appropriate Contracting Government's contact points. 9.3 Preparation of an effective SSP should rest on a thorough assessment of all issues that relate to the security of the ship, including, in particular, a thorough appreciation of the physical and operational characteristics, including the voyage pattern, of the individual ship. 9.4 All SSPs should be approved by, or on behalf of, the Administration.
Security level 2 9.16 At security level 2, the SSP should establish the security measures to be applied to protect against a heightened risk of a security incident to ensure higher vigilance and tighter control, which may include:. 1 assigning additional personnel to patrol deck areas during silent hours to deter unauthorised access;. 2 limiting the number of access points to the ship, identifying those to be closed and the means of adequately securing them;. 3 deterring waterside access to the ship, including, for example, in liaison with the port facility, provision of boat patrols;. 4 establishing a restricted area on the shore side of the ship, in close cooperation with the port facility;. 5 increasing the frequency and detail of searches of persons, personal effects, and vehicles being embarked or loaded onto the ship;. 6 escorting visitors on the ship;. 7 providing additional specific security briefings to all ship personnel on any identified threats, re-emphasising the procedures for reporting suspicious persons, objects, or activities and stressing the need for increased vigilance; and. 8 carrying out a full or partial search of the ship.
Security level 3 9.17 At security level 3, the ship should comply with the instructions issued by those responding to the security incident or threat thereof.
Security level 3 9.24 At security level 3, the ship should comply with the instructions issued by those responding to the security incident or threat thereof.
Security level 3 9.32 At security level 3, the ship should comply with the instructions issued by those responding to the security incident or threat thereof.
Security level 3 9.37 At security level 3, the ship should comply with the instructions issued by those responding to the security incident or threat thereof.
Security level 1 9.39 At security level 1, the SSP should establish the security measures to be applied when handling unaccompanied baggage to ensure that unaccompanied baggage is screened or searched up to and including 100 percent, which may include use of x-ray screening.
Security level 2 9.40 At security level 2, the SSP should establish the additional security measures to be applied when handling unaccompanied baggage, which should include 100 percent x-ray screening of all unaccompanied baggage.
Security level 3 9.41 At security level 3, the ship should comply with the instructions issued by those responding to the security incident or threat thereof.
Such monitoring capabilities may include use of:. 1 lighting;. 2 watchkeepers, security guards and deck watches, including patrols; and. 3 automatic intrusion-detection devices and surveillance equipment. 9.43 When used, automatic intrusion-detection devices should activate an audible and/or visual alarm at a location that is continuously attended or monitored. 9.44 The SSP should establish the procedures and equipment needed at each security level and the means of ensuring that monitoring equipment will be able to perform continually, including consideration of the possible effects of weather conditions or of power disruptions.
Security level 1 9.45 At security level 1, the SSP should establish the security measures to be applied, which may be a combination of lighting, watchkeepers, security guards or use of security and surveillance equipment to allow ship's security personnel to observe the ship in general, and barriers and restricted areas in particular. 9.46 The ship's deck and access points to the ship should be illuminated during hours of darkness and periods of low visibility while conducting ship/port interface activities or at a port facility or anchorage when necessary.
Security level 3 9.49 At security level 3, the ship should comply with the instructions issued by those responding to the security incident or threat thereof.
COMPANY SECURITY OFFICER Relevant guidance is provided under sections 8, 9 and 13. 12.
SHIP SECURITY OFFICER Relevant guidance is provided under sections 8, 9 and 13. 13.
TRAINING, DRILLS AND EXERCISES ON SHIP SECURITY Training 13.1 The company security officer (CSO) and appropriate shore-based Company personnel, and the ship security officer (SSO), should have knowledge of, and receive training, in some or all of the following, as appropriate:. 1 security administration;. 2 relevant international conventions, codes and recommendations;. 3 relevant Government legislation and regulations;. 4 responsibilities and functions of other security organisations;. 5 methodology of ship security assessment;. 6 methods of ship security surveys and inspections;. 7 ship and port operations and conditions;. 8 ship and port facility security measures;. 9 emergency preparedness and response and contingency planning;. 10 instruction techniques for security training and education, including security measures and procedures;. 11 handling sensitive security-related information and security-related communications;. 12 knowledge of current security threats and patterns;. 13 recognition and detection of weapons, dangerous substances and devices;. 14 recognition, on a non-discriminatory basis, of characteristics and behavioural patterns of persons who are likely to threaten security;. 15 techniques used to circumvent security measures;. 16 security equipment and systems and their operational limitations;. 17 methods of conducting audits, inspection, control and monitoring;. 18 methods of physical searches and non-intrusive inspections;. 19 security drills and exercises, including drills and exercises with port facilities; and. 20 assessment of security drills and exercises. 13.2 In addition, the SSO should have adequate knowledge of, and receive training in, some or all of the following, as appropriate:. 1 the layout of the ship;. 2 the ship security plan and related procedures (including scenario-based training on how to respond);. 3 crowd management and control techniques;. 4 operations of security equipment and systems; and. 5 testing, calibration and at-sea maintenance of security equipment and systems. 13.3 Shipboard personnel having specific security duties should have sufficient knowledge and ability to perform their assigned duties, including, as appropriate:. 1 knowledge of current security threats and patterns;. 2 recognition and detection of weapons, dangerous substances and devices;. 3 recognition of characteristics and behavioural patterns of persons who are likely to threaten security;. 4 techniques used to circumvent security measures;. 5 crowd management and control techniques;. 6 security-related communications;. 7 knowledge of the emergency procedures and contingency plans;. 8 operations of security equipment and systems;. 9 testing, calibration and at-sea maintenance of security equipment and systems;. 10 inspection, control, and monitoring techniques; and. 11 methods of physical searches of persons, personal effects, baggage, cargo, and ship's stores. 13.4 All other shipboard personnel should have sufficient knowledge of and be familiar with relevant provisions of the ship security plan (SSP), including:. 1 the meaning and the consequential requirements of the different security levels;. 2 knowledge of the emergency procedures and contingency plans;. 3 recognition and detection of weapons, dangerous substances and devices;. 4 recognition, on a non-discriminatory basis, of characteristics and behavioural patterns of persons who are likely to threaten security; and. 5 techniques used to circumvent security measures.
These drills should test individual elements of the plan such as those security threats listed in paragraph 8.9. 13.7 13.7 Various types of exercises, which may include participation of company security officers, port facility security officers, relevant authorities of Contracting Governments as well as ship security officers, if available, should be carried out at least once each calendar year with no more than 18 months between the exercises.
Security level 1 16.17 At security level 1, the PFSP should establish the control points where the following security measures may be applied:. 1 restricted areas, which should be bounded by fencing or other barriers to a standard which should be approved by the Contracting Government;. 2 checking identity of all persons seeking entry to the port facility in connection with a ship, including passengers, ship's personnel and visitors, and confirming their reasons for doing so by checking, for example, joining instructions, passenger tickets, boarding passes, work orders, etc.;. 3 checking vehicles used by those seeking entry to the port facility in connection with a ship;. 4 verification of the identity of port facility personnel and those employed within the port facility and their vehicles;. 5 restricting access to exclude those not employed by the port facility or working within it, if they are unable to establish their identity;. 6 undertaking searches of persons, personal effects, vehicles and their contents; and. 7 identification of any access points not in regular use, which should be permanently closed and locked. 16.18 At security level 1, all those seeking access to the port facility should be liable to search.
Security level 3 16.20 At security level 3, the port facility should comply with instructions issued by those responding to the security incident or threat thereof.
The purpose of restricted areas is to:. 1 protect passengers, ship's personnel, port facility personnel and visitors, including those visiting in connection with a ship;. 2 protect the port facility;. 3 protect ships using, and serving, the port facility;. 4 protect security-sensitive locations and areas within the port facility;. 5 protect security and surveillance equipment and systems; and. 6 protect cargo and ship's stores from tampering. 16.22 The PFSP should ensure that all restricted areas have clearly established security measures to control:. 1 access by individuals;. 2 the entry, parking, loading and unloading of vehicles;. 3 movement and storage of cargo and ship's stores; and. 4 unaccompanied baggage or personal effects. 16.23 The PFSP should provide that all restricted areas should be clearly marked, indicating that access to the area is restricted and that unauthorised presence within the area constitutes a breach of security. 16.24 When automatic intrusion-detection devices are installed they should alert a control centre which can respond to the triggering of an alarm. 16.25 Restricted areas may include:. 1 shore- and water-side areas immediately adjacent to the ship;. 2 embarkation and disembarkation areas, passenger and ship's personnel holding and processing areas, including search points;. 3 areas where loading, unloading or storage of cargo and stores is undertaken;. 4 locations where security-sensitive information, including cargo documentation, is held;. 5 areas where dangerous goods and hazardous substances are held;. 6 vessel traffic management system control rooms, aids to navigation and port control buildings, including security and surveillance control rooms;. 7 areas where security and surveillance equipment are stored or located;. 8 essential electrical, radio and telecommunication, water and other utility installations; and. 9 other locations in the port facility where access by vessels, vehicles and individuals should be restricted. 16.26 The security measures may extend, with the agreement of the relevant authorities, to restrictions on unauthorised access to structures from which the port facility can be observed.
Security level 3 16.29 At security level 3, the port facility should comply with the instructions issued by those responding to the security incident or threat thereof.
Security level 3 16.37 At security level 3, the port facility should comply with the instructions issued by those responding to the security incident or threat thereof.
Security level 3 16.44 At security level 3, the port facility should comply with the instructions issued by those responding to the security incident or threat thereof.
Security level 1 16.46 At security level 1, the PFSP should establish the security measures to be applied when handling unaccompanied baggage to ensure that unaccompanied baggage is screened or searched up to and including 100 percent, which may include use of x-ray screening.
Security level 2 16.47 At security level 2, the PFSP should establish the additional security measures to be applied when handling unaccompanied baggage which should include 100 percent x-ray screening of all unaccompanied baggage.
Security level 3 16.48 At security level 3, the port facility should comply with the instructions issued by those responding to the security incident or threat thereof.
Such monitoring can include use of:. 1 lighting;. 2 security guards, including foot, vehicle and waterborne patrols; and. 3 automatic intrusion-detection devices and surveillance equipment. 16.50 When used, automatic intrusion-detection devices should activate an audible and/or visual alarm at a location that is continuously attended or monitored. 16.51 The PFSP should establish the procedures and equipment needed at each security level and the means of ensuring that monitoring equipment will be able to perform continually, including consideration of the possible effects of weather or of power disruptions.
Security level 1 16.52 At security level 1, the PFSP should establish the security measures to be applied, which may be a combination of lighting, security guards or use of security and surveillance equipment to allow port facility security personnel to:. 1 observe the general port facility area, including shore- and water-side accesses to it;. 2 observe access points, barriers and restricted areas; and. 3 allow port facility security personnel to monitor areas and movements adjacent to ships using the port facility, including augmentation of lighting provided by the ship itself.
Security level 3 16.54 At security level 3, the port facility should comply with the instructions issued by those responding to the security incident or threat thereof.
These drills should test individual elements of the plan such as those security threats listed in paragraph 15.11. 18.6 Various types of exercises, which may include participation of port facility security officers, in conjunction with relevant authorities of Contracting Governments, company security officers, or ship security officers, if available, should be carried out at least once each calendar year with no more than 18 months between the exercises.
Appendix to Part B Appendix 1 %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2004129EN.008803.TIF%quot%%gt% %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2004129EN.008901.TIF%quot%%gt% Appendix 2 %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2004129EN.009002.TIF%quot%%gt% %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2004129EN.009101.TIF%quot%%gt%%quot% (1) Protocol of 1988 relating to the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea, 1974.
