Council Regulation (EC) No 1698/2005 of 20 September 2005 on support for rural development by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) Council Regulation (EC) No 1698/2005 of 20 September 2005 on support for rural development by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular Articles 36, 37 and 299(2) thereof, Having regard to the proposal from the Commission, Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament [1], Whereas: (1) A rural development policy should accompany and complement the market and income support policies of the common agricultural policy and thus contribute to the achievement of that policy’s objectives as laid down in the Treaty.
Rural development policy should also take into account the general objectives for economic and social cohesion policy set out in the Treaty and contribute to their achievement, while integrating other major policy priorities as spelled out in the conclusions of the Lisbon and Göteborg European Councils for competitiveness and sustainable development. (2) According to the Treaty, in working out the common agricultural policy and the special methods for its application, account is to be taken of the particular nature of agricultural activity which results from the social structure of agriculture and from structural and natural disparities between the various rural areas. (3) The reform of the common agricultural policy in June 2003 and April 2004 introduced major changes likely to have a significant impact on the economy across the whole rural territory of the Community in terms of agricultural production patterns, land management methods, employment and the wider social and economic conditions in the various rural areas. (4) Action by the Community should be complementary to that carried out by the Member States or seek to contribute to it.
In accordance with the principle of proportionality as set out in that Article, this Regulation does not go beyond what is necessary in order to achieve that objective. (6) The activities of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (hereinafter the EAFRD) and the operations to which it contributes must be consistent and compatible with the other Community policies and comply with all Community legislation. (7) In its action in favour of rural development, the Community takes care to eliminate inequalities and to promote equality between men and women and non-discrimination, in accordance with the Treaty. (8) To focus the strategic content of rural development policy in line with the Community’s priorities and hereby favour its transparency, the Council should adopt strategic guidelines on a proposal from the Commission. (9) On the basis of the strategic guidelines, each Member State should prepare its rural development national strategy plan constituting the reference framework for the preparation of the rural development programmes.
Member States and the Commission should report on the monitoring of the national and Community strategy. (10) The programming of rural development should comply with Community and national priorities and complement the other Community policies, in particular the agricultural market policy, cohesion policy and common fisheries policy. (11) To ensure the sustainable development of rural areas it is necessary to focus on a limited number of core objectives at Community level relating to agricultural and forestry competitiveness, land management and environment, quality of life and diversification of activities in those areas, taking into account the diversity of situations, ranging from remote rural areas suffering from depopulation and decline to peri-urban rural areas under increasing pressure from urban centres. (12) There is a need to establish general rules for programming and revising rural development programming, while ensuring an appropriate balance between the axes of the rural development programmes corresponding to those core objectives.
The setting-up measure should be made conditional on the establishment of a business plan as an instrument to ensure over time the development of the activities of the new agricultural holding. (17) Early retirement from farming should target a significant structural change of the transferred holdings through the measure for the setting-up of young farmers according to the requirements of that measure, or by transferring the holding with a view to increasing its size, also taking into account the experience acquired in the implementation of previous Community schemes in this field. (18) The use by farmers and forest holders of management and advisory services should allow them to improve the sustainable management of their holdings.
For this purpose cooperation between farmers, the food and the raw materials processing industry and other parties should be encouraged. (25) Agricultural infrastructure and restorative and preventive measures against natural disasters should contribute to the agricultural and forestry competitiveness axis. (26) With regard to the quality of agricultural production and products, a set of measures on meeting standards by farmers based on Community legislation, encouraging participation of farmers in food quality schemes and supporting producer groups for information and promotion activities should be made available. (27) The aim of the measure on meeting standards is to promote a more rapid implementation by farmers of demanding standards based on Community legislation concerning the environment, public health, animal and plant health, animal welfare and occupational safety and the respect of those standards by farmers.
Support should be provided to producer groups to inform consumers and promote products provided under quality schemes supported by Member States within their rural development programmes. (30) There is a need to ensure the smooth transition of a set of individual measures introduced through the 2003 Act of Accession, namely the measure on semi-subsistence farming and the measure on producer groups. (31) Support for specific methods of land management should contribute to sustainable development by encouraging farmers and forest holders in particular to employ methods of land use compatible with the need to preserve the natural environment and landscape and protect and improve natural resources.
Key issues to be addressed include biodiversity, Natura 2000 site management, the protection of water and soil, climate change mitigation including the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, the reduction of ammonia emissions and the sustainable use of pesticides. (32) Forestry is an integral part of rural development and support for sustainable land use should encompass the sustainable management of forests and their multifunctional role.
This support should avoid distorting competition and should be market-neutral. (33) Natural handicap payments in mountain areas and payments in other areas with handicaps should contribute, through continued use of agricultural land, to maintaining the countryside, as well as to maintaining and promoting sustainable farming systems.
Certain provisions of Regulation (EC) No 1257/1999 concerning support for less favoured areas should remain in force for a period of time. (34) Support should continue to be granted to farmers to help address specific disadvantages in the areas concerned resulting from the implementation of Council Directive 79/409/EEC of 2 April 1979 on the conservation of wild birds [4] and Council Directive 92/43/EEC of 21 May 1992 on the conservation of natural habitats and of wild fauna and flora [5] in order to contribute to the effective management of Natura 2000 sites, while support should also be made available to farmers to help address disadvantages in river basin areas resulting from the implementation of Directive 2000/60/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2000 establishing a framework for the Community action in the field of the water policy [6]. (35) Agri-environmental payments should continue to play a prominent role in supporting the sustainable development of rural areas and in responding to society’s increasing demand for environmental services.
In accordance with the polluter-pays principle these payments should cover only those commitments going beyond the relevant mandatory standards. (36) Farmers should continue to be encouraged to adopt high standards of animal welfare by providing for support for farmers who undertake to adopt standards of animal husbandry which go beyond the relevant mandatory standards. (37) Support should be granted for non-remunerative investments where they are necessary to achieve the commitments undertaken under agri-environmental schemes or other agri-environmental objectives, or where they enhance on-farm the public amenity value of Natura 2000 areas and other areas of high natural value. (38) In order to contribute to the protection of the environment, the prevention of natural hazards and fires, as well as to mitigate climate change, forest resources should be extended and improved by first afforestation of agricultural land and other than agricultural land.
Preventive actions against fires should cover areas classified by Member States as high or medium fire risk according to their forest protection plans. (43) Support should be granted to forest holders for non-remunerative investments where they are necessary to achieve the forest-environment commitments or other environmental objectives, or in forests to enhance the public amenity value of the areas concerned. (44) In order to ensure the targeted and efficient use of land management support under this Regulation, Member States should designate areas for intervention under certain measures of this axis.
Natura 2000 areas are designated in accordance with Directives 79/409/EEC and 92/43/EEC.
Member States should designate areas suitable for afforestation for environmental reasons, such as protection against erosion, prevention of natural hazards or extension of forest resources contributing to climate change mitigation, and forest areas with a medium to high forest fire risk. (45) A penalty system should be set up where beneficiaries receiving payments under certain land management measures do not meet the mandatory requirements provided for in Regulation (EC) No 1782/2003 on all of their holding, taking into account the severity, extent, permanence and repetition of non-compliance. (46) There is a need to accompany changes in rural areas by helping them to diversify farming activities towards non-agricultural activities and develop non-agricultural sectors, promote employment, improve basic services, including local access to Information and Communication Technologies (ICTs) and carry out investments making rural areas more attractive in order to reverse trends towards economic and social decline and depopulation of the countryside.
Therefore, measures relating to the broader rural economy should be preferably implemented through local development strategies. (49) There is a need to clearly define the principles of coherence and complementarity of the axis for the improvement of the quality of life in rural areas and the diversification of the rural economy with other Community financial instruments, and particularly with those of cohesion policy. (50) The Leader initiative, after having experienced three programming periods, has reached a level of maturity enabling rural areas to implement the Leader approach more widely in mainstream rural development programming.
Provision should therefore be made to transfer the basic principles of the Leader approach to the programmes building a specific axis in them, and provide a definition of the local action groups and measures to be supported, including partnership capacity, implementation of local strategies, cooperation, networking and acquisition of skills. (51) Given the importance of the Leader approach, a substantial share of the contribution of the EAFRD should be earmarked for this axis. (52) The EAFRD is to support through technical assistance actions relating to the implementation of the programmes.
As part of the technical assistance referred to in Article 5 of Council Regulation (EC) No 1290/2005 of 21 June 2005 on the financing of the common agricultural policy [8], a network for rural development should be set up at Community level. (53) Provisions on the allocation of the available resources should be introduced.
These resources should be consistent with the financial perspective for the period 2007 to 2013.
The authorities managing the programmes have a responsibility in this respect. (68) Rural development as defined in this Regulation should be eligible for Member State support without Community co-financing.
Moreover, Member States should be authorised to grant State aid, intended to provide additional financing for rural development for which Community support is granted, under a notification procedure in accordance with the provisions of this Regulation as part of programming. (69) There is a need to adopt rules to facilitate the transition from the existing support scheme to the new rural development support scheme. (70) The new support scheme provided for in this Regulation replaces the existing support scheme.
Article 4 Objectives 1.
The objectives set out in paragraph 1 shall be implemented by means of the four axes defined in Title IV.
CHAPTER III PRINCIPLES OF ASSISTANCE Article 5 Complementarity, consistency and conformity 1.
This consistency shall be provided by the Community strategic guidelines referred to in Article 9, the national strategy plan referred to in Article 11, the rural development programmes referred to in Article 15 and the Commission report referred to in Article 14. 4.
No support under this Regulation shall be granted to schemes eligible for support under common market organisations, subject to any exceptions yet to be defined, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 90(2). 7.
Article 6 Partnership 1.
The partnership shall be involved in the preparation and monitoring of the national strategy plan and in the preparation, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the rural development programmes.
Article 7 Subsidiarity Member States shall be responsible for implementing the rural development programmes at the appropriate territorial level, according to their own institutional arrangements, in accordance with this Regulation.
Article 8 Equality between men and women and non-discrimination Member States and the Commission shall promote equality between men and women and shall ensure that any discrimination based on sex, racial or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation is prevented during the various stages of programme implementation.
TITLE II THE STRATEGIC APPROACH TO RURAL DEVELOPMENT CHAPTER I THE COMMUNITY STRATEGIC GUIDELINES Article 9 Content and adoption 1.
The Council shall adopt Community strategic guidelines for rural development policy for the programming period from 1 January 2007 to 31 December 2013 in the light of the policy priorities set at Community level.
By 20 February 2006, a decision on the Community strategic guidelines shall be adopted according to the procedure laid down in Article 37 of the Treaty.
Article 10 Review With a view to taking account of major changes in the Community priorities in particular, the Community strategic guidelines may be subject to review.
CHAPTER II NATIONAL STRATEGY PLANS Article 11 Content 1.
The national strategy plan shall ensure that Community aid for rural development is consistent with the Community strategic guidelines and that Community, national and regional priorities all coordinate.
Article 12 Preparation 1.
Each Member State shall prepare a national strategy plan after the Community strategic guidelines are adopted.
This plan shall be prepared in accordance with the Member States’ institutional arrangements, following close collaboration with the partners referred to in Article 6.
It shall be drawn up in close collaboration with the Commission and shall cover the period from 1 January 2007 to 31 December 2013. 2.
CHAPTER III STRATEGIC MONITORING Article 13 Summary reports by Member States 1.
For the first time in 2010 and no later than 1 October each second year, each Member State shall submit to the Commission a summary report setting out the progress made in implementing its national strategy plan and objectives and its contribution to the achievement of the Community strategic guidelines.
The last summary report shall be submitted no later than 1 October 2014. 2.
The report shall summarise the previous years’ annual progress reports referred to in Article 82 and shall describe in particular: (a) the achievements and results of the rural development programmes relative to the indicators set out in the national strategy plan; (b) the results of the ongoing evaluation activities for each programme. 3.
By way of derogation from paragraph 1, for single programmes as referred to in Article 15(2) Member States may include in the annual progress reports referred to in Article 82 the elements provided for in paragraph 2 of this Article within the time limit set in Article 82.
Article 14 Commission report 1.
This report shall be based on the Commission’s analysis and appraisal of the Member States’ summary reports referred to in Article 13 and any other available information.
TITLE III PROGRAMMING CHAPTER I PROGRAMMING CONTENT Article 15 Rural development programmes 1.
Each rural development programme shall cover a period between 1 January 2007 and 31 December 2013. 2.
Article 17 Balance between objectives 1.
The Community financial contribution to each of the three objectives referred to in Article 4 shall cover at least 10 % of the EAFRD total contribution to the programme for axis 1 and 3 referred to in Sections 1 and 3 respectively of Chapter I of Title IV and at least 25 % of the EAFRD total contribution to the programme for axis 2 referred to in Section 2 of Chapter I of Title IV.
For the Czech Republic, Estonia, Cyprus, Latvia, Lithuania, Hungary, Malta, Poland, Slovenia and Slovakia, the minimum Community financial contribution for axis 4 of 5 % may be phased in over the programming period in such a way that on average at least 2,5 % of the EAFRD total contribution is reserved for axis 4.
CHAPTER II PREPARATION, APPROVAL AND REVIEW Article 18 Preparation and approval 1.
Member States shall submit to the Commission a proposal for each rural development programme, containing the information mentioned in Article 16. 3.
The Commission shall assess the proposed programmes on the basis of their consistency with the Community strategic guidelines, the national strategy plan and this Regulation.
Each rural development programme shall be approved in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 90(2).
Article 19 Review 1.
Changes requiring approval by Commission decision shall be defined in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 90(2).
TITLE IV RURAL DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT CHAPTER I AXES SECTION 1 Axis 1 Improving the competitiveness of the agricultural and forestry sector Article 20 Measures Support targeting the competitiveness of the agricultural and forestry sector shall concern: (a) measures aimed at promoting knowledge and improving human potential through: (i) vocational training and information actions, including diffusion of scientific knowledge and innovative practises, for persons engaged in the agricultural, food and forestry sectors; (ii) setting up of young farmers; (iii) early retirement of farmers and farm workers; (iv) use of advisory services by farmers and forest holders; (v) setting up of farm management, farm relief and farm advisory services, as well as of forestry advisory services; (b) measures aimed at restructuring and developing physical potential and promoting innovation through: (i) modernisation of agricultural holdings; (ii) improving the economic value of forests; (iii) adding value to agricultural and forestry products; (iv) cooperation for development of new products, processes and technologies in the agriculture and food sector and in the forestry sector; (v) improving and developing infrastructure related to the development and adaptation of agriculture and forestry; (vi) restoring agricultural production potential damaged by natural disasters and introducing appropriate prevention actions; (c) measures aimed at improving the quality of agricultural production and products by: (i) helping farmers to adapt to demanding standards based on Community legislation; (ii) supporting farmers who participate in food quality schemes; (iii) supporting producer groups for information and promotion activities for products under food quality schemes; (d) transitional measures for the Czech Republic, Estonia, Cyprus, Latvia, Lithuania, Hungary, Malta, Poland, Slovenia and Slovakia concerning: (i) supporting semi-subsistence agricultural holdings undergoing restructuring; (ii) supporting setting up of producer groups.
SUBSECTION 1 Conditions for measures aimed at promoting knowledge and improving human potential Article 21 Vocational training and information actions Support provided for in Article 20(a)(i) shall not include courses of instruction or training which form part of normal programmes or systems of agricultural and forestry education at secondary or higher levels.
Article 22 Setting up of young farmers 1.
Support provided for in Article 20(a)(ii), shall be granted to persons who: (a) are less than 40 years of age and are setting up for the first time on an agricultural holding as head of the holding; (b) possess adequate occupational skills and competence; (c) submit a business plan for the development of their farming activities. 2.
The transferor shall: (a) be not less than 55 years old but not yet of normal retirement age at the time of transfer or not more than 10 years younger than the normal retirement age in the Member State concerned at the time of the transfer; (b) stop all commercial farming activity definitively; (c) have practised farming for the 10 years preceding transfer. 3.
The transferee shall: (a) succeed the transferor by setting up as provided for in Article 22; or (b) be a farmer of less than 50 years old or a private law body and take over the agricultural holding released by the transferor to increase the size of the agricultural holding. 4.
The farm worker shall: (a) be not less than 55 years old but not yet of normal retirement age or not more than 10 years younger than the normal retirement age in the Member State concerned; (b) have devoted at least half of his working time to farm work, during the preceding five years, as a family helper or farm worker; (c) have worked on the transferor’s agricultural holding for at least the equivalent of two years full-time during the four-year period preceding the early retirement of the transferor; (d) belong to a social security scheme. 5.
Article 24 Use of advisory services 1.
Support provided for in Article 20(a)(iv) shall be granted in order to help farmers and forest holders to meet costs arising from the use of advisory services for the improvement of the overall performance of their holding.
As a minimum the advisory service to farmers shall cover: (a) the statutory management requirements and the good agricultural and environmental conditions provided for in Articles 4 and 5 of and in Annexes III and IV to Regulation (EC) No 1782/2003; (b) occupational safety standards based on Community legislation. 2.
Article 25 Setting up of management, relief and advisory services Support provided for in Article 20(a)(v) shall be granted in order to cover costs arising from the setting up of farm management, farm relief and farm advisory services as well as forestry advisory services and shall be degressive over a maximum period of five years from setting up.
SUBSECTION 2 Conditions for measures aimed at restructuring and developing physical potential and promoting innovation Article 26 Modernisation of agricultural holdings 1.
Support provided for in Article 20(b)(i), shall be granted for tangible and/or intangible investments which: (a) improve the overall performance of the agricultural holding; and (b) respect the Community standards applicable to the investment concerned.
In that case, a period of grace, not exceeding 36 months from the date on which the standard becomes mandatory for the agricultural holding, may be provided to meet that standard.
In the case of young farmers receiving support provided for in Article 20(a)(ii), support may be granted for investments to comply with existing Community standards, when identified in the business plan referred to in Article 22(1)(c).
The period of grace within which the standard needs to be met, may not exceed 36 months from the date of setting up. 2.
Support shall be limited to the maximum rate laid down in the Annex.
Article 27 Improvement of the economic value of forests 1.
Investment support provided for in Article 20(b)(ii) shall be granted for forests owned by private owners or their associations or by municipalities or their associations.
Investments shall be based on forest management plans for forest holdings above a certain size to be defined by the Member States in their programmes. 3.
Article 28 Adding value to agricultural and forestry products 1.
In that case a period of grace, not exceeding 36 months from the date on which the standard becomes mandatory for the enterprise, may be provided to meet the standard. 2.
Support shall be limited to the maximum rate laid down in the Annex. 3.
For enterprises that are not covered by Article 2(1) of that recommendation with less than 750 employees or with a turn over of less than EUR 200 million the maximum aid intensity is halved.
Support shall not be granted to enterprises in difficulty within the meaning of the Community guidelines on State aid for rescuing and restructuring firms in difficulty [17].
Article 29 Cooperation for development of new products, processes and technologies in the agriculture and food sector and in the forestry sector 1.
Support provided for in Article 20(b)(iv) shall be granted to promote the cooperation between primary producers in agriculture and forestry, the processing industry and/or third parties. 2.
Article 30 Infrastructure related to the development and adaptation of agriculture and forestry Support provided for in Article 20(b)(v), may cover notably operations related to access to farm and forest land, land consolidation and improvement, energy supply and water management.
SUBSECTION 3 Conditions for measures aiming to improve the quality of agricultural production and products Article 31 Meeting standards based on Community legislation 1.
Support shall be limited to the maximum amount laid down in the Annex.
Article 32 Participation of farmers in food quality schemes 1.
Support provided for in Article 20(c)(ii) shall: (a) cover agricultural products only intended for human consumption; (b) be for Community food quality schemes, or for those recognised by the Member States which comply with precise criteria to be defined in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 90(2); schemes whose sole purpose is to provide a higher level of control of respect of obligatory standards under Community or national law shall not be eligible for support; (c) be granted as an annual incentive payment whose level shall be determined according to the level of the fixed costs arising from participation in supported schemes, for a maximum duration of five years. 2.
Support shall be limited to the maximum amount laid down in the Annex.
Article 33 Information and promotion activities Support provided for in Article 20(c)(iii) shall concern products covered by the support of the quality schemes referred to in Article 32.
Support shall be limited to the maximum rate laid down in the Annex.
Subsection 4 Conditions for transitional measures Article 34 Semi-subsistence farming 1.
Progress in respect of the business plan referred to in paragraph 1 shall be assessed after three years. 3.
The support shall be granted in respect of applications approved by 31 December 2013.
Article 35 Producer groups 1.
SECTION 2 Axis 2 Improving the environment and the countryside Article 36 Measures Support under this section shall concern: (a) measures targeting the sustainable use of agricultural land through: (i) natural handicap payments to farmers in mountain areas; (ii) payments to farmers in areas with handicaps, other than mountain areas; (iii) Natura 2000 payments and payments linked to Directive 2000/60/EC; (iv) agri-environment payments; (v) animal welfare payments; (vi) support for non-productive investments; (b) measures targeting the sustainable use of forestry land through: (i) first afforestation of agricultural land; (ii) first establishment of agroforestry systems on agricultural land; (iii) first afforestation of non-agricultural land; (iv) Natura 2000 payments; (v) forest-environment payments; (vi) restoring forestry potential and introducing prevention actions; (vii) support for non-productive investments.
Subsection 1 Conditions for measures targeting the sustainable use of agricultural land Article 37 Natural handicap payments in mountain areas and payments in other areas with handicaps 1.
Article 38 Natura 2000 payments and payments linked to Directive 2000/60/EC 1.
Support provided for in Article 36(a)(iii), shall be granted annually and per hectare of UAA to farmers in order to compensate for costs incurred and income foregone resulting from disadvantages in the areas concerned related to the implementation of Directives 79/409/EEC, 92/43/EEC and 2000/60/EC. 2.
Support shall be limited to the maximum amount laid down in the Annex.
Article 39 Agri-environment payments 1.
Member States shall make available support provided for in Article 36(a)(iv) throughout their territories, in accordance with their specific needs. 2.
Agri-environment payments cover only those commitments going beyond the relevant mandatory standards established pursuant to Articles 4 and 5 of and Annexes III and IV to Regulation (EC) No 1782/2003 as well as minimum requirements for fertiliser and plant protection product use and other relevant mandatory requirements established by national legislation and identified in the programme.
Where necessary and justified, a longer period shall be determined according to the procedure referred to in Article 90(2) for particular types of commitments. 4.
Support shall be limited to the maximum amount laid down in the Annex. 5.
Article 40 Animal welfare payments 1.
Animal welfare payments cover only those commitments going beyond the relevant mandatory standards established pursuant to Article 4 of and Annex III to Regulation (EC) No 1782/2003 and other relevant mandatory requirements established by national legislation and identified in the programme.
Where necessary and justified, a longer period shall be determined according to the procedure referred to in Article 90(2) for particular types of commitments. 3.
Support shall be limited to the maximum amount laid down in the Annex.
Article 41 Non-productive investments Support provided in Article 36(a)(vi) shall be granted for: (a) investments linked to the achievement of commitments undertaken pursuant to the measure provided for in Article 36(a)(iv) or other agri-environmental objectives; (b) on-farm investments which enhance the public amenity value of a Natura 2000 area or other high nature value areas to be defined in the programme.
Subsection 2 Conditions for measures targeting the sustainable use of forestry land Article 42 General conditions 1.
Article 43 First afforestation of agricultural land 1.
Article 44 First establishment of agroforestry systems on agricultural land 1.
Support provided for in Article 36(b)(ii), shall be granted to farmers to create agroforestry systems combining extensive agriculture and forestry systems.
Support shall be limited to the maximum rate laid down in the Annex.
Article 45 First afforestation of non-agricultural land 1.
Support provided for in Article 36(b)(iii) for afforestation of land not eligible under Article 36(b)(i) shall cover the establishment costs.
Article 46 Natura 2000 payments Support provided for in Article 36(b)(iv), shall be granted annually and per hectare of forest to private forest owners or associations thereof in order to compensate for costs incurred and income foregone resulting from the restrictions on the use of forests and other wooded land due to the implementation of Directives 79/409/EEC and 92/43/EEC in the area concerned.
Article 47 Forest-environment payments 1.
Forest-environment payments provided for in Article 36(b)(v), shall be granted per hectare of forest to beneficiaries who make forest-environmental commitments on a voluntary basis.
Where necessary and justified, a longer period shall be determined in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 90(2) for particular types of commitments. 2.
Article 48 Restoring forestry potential and introducing prevention actions 1.
Support provided for in Article 36(b)(vi), shall be granted for restoring forestry potential in forests damaged by natural disasters and fire and for introducing appropriate prevention actions. 2.
Article 49 Non-productive investments Support provided in Article 36(b)(vii), shall be granted for investments in forests: (a) linked to the achievement of commitments undertaken pursuant to the measure provided for in Article 36(b)(v), or other environmental objectives; (b) which enhance the public amenity value of forest and wooded land of the area concerned.
Subsection 3 Designation of areas Article 50 Eligible areas 1.
Member States shall designate the areas eligible for payments provided for in Article 36(a)(i), (ii) and (iii) as well as in Article 36(b)(i), (iii), (iv) and (vi), taking into account paragraphs 2 to 5 of this Article. 2.
As concerns areas affected by specific handicaps referred to in point (b), they shall comprise farming areas which are homogeneous from the point of view of natural production conditions and their total extent shall not exceed 10 % of the area of the Member State concerned. 4.
In the programmes, the Member States, according to specific provisions to be defined in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 90(2), shall: - confirm the existing delimitation pursuant to paragraphs 2 and 3(b) or amend it, or - delimitate the areas referred to in paragraph 3(a). 5.
Natura 2000 agricultural areas designated pursuant to Directives 79/409/EEC and 92/43/EEC and agricultural areas included in river basin management plans according to Directive 2000/60/EC shall be eligible for payments provided for in Article 36(a)(iii). 6.
Natura 2000 forest areas designated pursuant to Directives 79/409/EEC and 92/43/EEC, shall be eligible for payments provided for in Article 36(b)(iv). 8.
Forest areas with a medium to high forest fire risk shall be eligible for payments provided for in Article 36(b)(vi) relating to prevention actions against fires.
Subsection 4 Respect of standards Article 51 Reduction or exclusion from payments 1.
Where beneficiaries receiving payments under Article 36(a)(i) to (v) and Article 36(b)(i), (iv) and (v) do not respect on the whole holding, as a result of an action or omission directly attributable to them, the mandatory requirements provided for in Articles 4 and 5 of and in Annexes III and IV to Regulation (EC) No 1782/2003, the total amount of their payments to be granted in the calendar year in which the non-compliance occurs shall be reduced or cancelled.
The reduction or cancellation of payments referred to in paragraph 1 shall not apply for standards for which a period of grace has been granted in accordance with Article 26(1)(b) during the period of grace. 3.
By way of derogation from paragraph 1, for beneficiaries in Member States applying the single area payment scheme as provided for in Article 143b of Regulation (EC) No 1782/2003, the mandatory requirements to be respected are those provided for in Article 5 of and Annex IV to that Regulation. 4.
Detailed rules for the reductions and exclusions shall be laid down in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 90(2).
Paragraphs 1 to 4 shall not apply to Article 39(5).
SECTION 3 Axis 3 The quality of life in rural areas and diversification of the rural economy Article 52 Measures Support under this section shall involve: (a) measures to diversify the rural economy, comprising: (i) diversification into non-agricultural activities, (ii) support for the creation and development of micro-enterprises with a view to promoting entrepreneurship and developing the economic fabric, (iii) encouragement of tourism activities; (b) measures to improve the quality of life in the rural areas, comprising: (i) basic services for the economy and rural population, (ii) village renewal and development, (iii) conservation and upgrading of the rural heritage; (c) a training and information measure for economic actors operating in the fields covered by axis 3; (d) a skills-acquisition and animation measure with a view to preparing and implementing a local development strategy.
Subsection 1 Conditions governing the measures to diversify the rural economy Article 53 Diversification into non-agricultural activities The aid beneficiary referred to in Article 52(a)(i) shall be a member of the farm household.
Article 54 Support for business creation and development The support provided for in Article 52(a)(ii) shall relate only to micro-enterprises as defined in the Commission Recommendation 2003/361/EC.
Article 55 Encouragement of tourism activities The support referred to in Article 52(a)(iii) shall cover the following: (a) small-scale infrastructure such as information centres and the signposting of tourist sites; (b) recreational infrastructure such as that offering access to natural areas, and small-capacity accommodation; (c) the development and/or marketing of tourism services relating to rural tourism.
Subsection 2 Conditions governing the measures to improve the quality of life in rural areas Article 56 Basic services for the economy and rural population The support referred to in Article 52(b)(i) shall cover the setting up of basic services, including cultural and leisure activities, concerning a village or group of villages, and related small-scale infrastructure.
Subsection 3 Training, skills acquisition and animation Article 58 Training and information Support under Article 52(c), shall not include courses of instruction or training which form part of normal education programmes or systems at secondary or higher levels.
Article 59 Skills acquisition, animation and implementation The support referred to in Article 52(d) shall cover: (a) studies of the area concerned; (b) measures to provide information about the area and the local development strategy; (c) the training of staff involved in the preparation and implementation of a local development strategy; (d) promotional events and the training of leaders; (e) implementation by public-private partnerships other than those defined by Article 62(1)(b) of the local development strategy encompassing one or more of the measures under Article 52(a), (b) and (c).
Subsection 4 Implementation of the axis Article 60 Demarcation Where a measure falling within this section targets operations eligible also under another Community support instrument, including the Structural Funds and the Community support instrument for fisheries, the Member State shall set in each programme the demarcation criteria for the operations supported by the EAFRD and those supported by the other Community support instrument.
SECTION 4 Axis 4 Leader Article 61 Definition of the Leader approach The Leader approach shall comprise at least the following elements: (a) area-based local development strategies intended for well-identified subregional rural territories; (b) local public-private partnerships (hereinafter local action groups); (c) bottom-up approach with a decision-making power for local action groups concerning the elaboration and implementation of local development strategies; (d) multi-sectoral design and implementation of the strategy based on the interaction between actors and projects of different sectors of the local economy; (e) implementation of innovative approaches; (f) implementation of cooperation projects; (g) networking of local partnerships.
Article 62 Local action groups 1.
Article 63 Measures The support granted under the Leader axis shall be for: (a) implementing local development strategies as referred to in Article 62(1)(a), with a view to achieving the objectives of one or more of the three other axes defined in Sections 1, 2 and 3; (b) implementing cooperation projects involving the objectives selected under point (a); (c) running the local action group, acquiring skills and animating the territory as referred to in Article 59.
Article 64 Implementing local strategies If the operations under the local strategy correspond to the measures defined in this Regulation for the other axes, the relevant conditions shall apply in accordance with Sections 1, 2 and 3.
Article 65 Cooperation 1.
Article 64 shall also apply to cooperation projects.
CHAPTER II TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE Article 66 Funding technical assistance 1.
In accordance with Article 5 of Regulation (EC) No 1290/2005, the EAFRD may use up to 0,25 % of its annual allocation to finance the preparatory, monitoring, administrative support, evaluation and control measures, at the Commission’s initiative and/or on its behalf.
Up to 4 % of the total amount for each programme may be devoted to these activities. 3.
Details concerning the establishment and the operation of the national rural network shall be fixed in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 90(2).
Article 67 European Network for Rural Development A European Network for Rural Development for the networking of national networks, organisations and administrations active in the field of rural development at Community level shall be put in place in accordance with Article 66(1).
Article 68 National rural network 1.
TITLE V EAFRD CONTRIBUTION Article 69 Resources and their distribution 1.
The Commission shall ensure that total annual allocations from the EAFRD originating from the EAGGF Guidance Section for any Member State pursuant to this Regulation, and from the ERDF, the ESF and the CF, according to the Community legislation laying down general provisions governing these Funds for the period from 1 January 2007 to 31 December 2013, including the contribution of ERDF according to the Community legislation governing the European Neighbourhood Instrument, from the Instrument for Pre-Accession, according to the Community legislation governing that instrument, and from the part of the FIFG contributing to the Convergence Objective, shall not exceed 4 % of that Member State’s GDP as estimated at the time of the adoption of the Interinstitutional Agreement on budgetary discipline and improvement of the budgetary procedure.
Article 70 Fund contribution 1.
The minimum EAFRD contribution rate at axis level shall be 20 %. 4.
Notwithstanding the ceilings set out in paragraph 3, the EAFRD contribution may be increased to 85 % for the programmes of the outermost regions and the smaller Aegean Islands within the meaning of Regulation (EEC) No 2019/93. 5.
For Member States opting for a specific programme pursuant to Article 66(3), second subparagraph, the ceiling of the EAFRD contribution shall be 50 % of the eligible public expenditure. 6.
Technical assistance measures taken at the initiative of the Commission or on its behalf may be funded at 100 %. 7.
Article 71 Eligibility of expenditure 1.
Without prejudice to Article 39(1) of Regulation (EC) No 1290/2005, expenditure shall be eligible for a EAFRD contribution if the relevant aid is actually paid by the paying agency between 1 January 2007 and 31 December 2015.
Expenditure shall be eligible for a EAFRD contribution only where incurred for operations decided on by the Managing Authority of the programme in question or under its responsibility, in accordance with the selection criteria fixed by the competent body. 3.
Paragraphs 1 to 3 shall not apply to Article 66(1). 5.
Detailed rules shall be defined in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 90(2).
Article 72 Durability of investment-related operations 1.
Without prejudice to the rules relating to the freedom of establishment and the free provision of services within the meaning of Articles 43 and 49 of the Treaty, the Member State shall ensure that an investment operation retains the EAFRD contribution if that operation does not, within five years of the Managing Authority’s funding decision, undergo a substantial modification that: (a) affects its nature or implementation conditions or gives undue advantage to a firm or public body; (b) results either from a change in the nature of ownership of an item of infrastructure, or the cessation or relocation of a productive activity. 2.
Amounts unduly paid out shall be recovered in accordance with Article 33 of Regulation (EC) No 1290/2005.
TITLE VI MANAGEMENT, CONTROL AND INFORMATION CHAPTER I MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL Article 73 Responsibilities of the Commission To ensure, in the context of shared management, sound financial management in accordance with Article 274 of the Treaty, the Commission shall carry out the measures and controls laid down in Article 9(2) of Regulation (EC) No 1290/2005.
Article 74 Responsibilities of the Member States 1.
Member States shall designate, for each rural development programme, the following authorities: (a) the Managing Authority, which may be either a public or private body acting at national or regional level, or the Member State itself when it carries out that task, to be in charge of the management of the programme concerned; (b) the accredited paying agency within the meaning of Article 6 of Regulation (EC) No 1290/2005; (c) the certifying body within the meaning of Article 7 of Regulation (EC) No 1290/2005. 3.
Article 75 Managing Authority 1.
CHAPTER II INFORMATION AND PUBLICITY Article 76 Information and publicity 1.
TITLE VII MONITORING AND EVALUATION CHAPTER I MONITORING Article 77 Monitoring Committee 1.
Article 79 Monitoring procedures 1.
Article 80 Common monitoring and evaluation framework The common monitoring and evaluation framework shall be drawn up in cooperation between the Commission and the Member States and adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 90(2).
Article 81 Indicators 1.
Article 82 Annual progress report 1.
The Managing Authority shall send a last progress report on the implementation of the programme to the Commission by 30 June 2016. 2.
Each annual progress report shall contain the following elements: (a) any change to the general conditions having a direct impact on the conditions for implementing the programme as well as any change to Community and national policies affecting consistency between the EAFRD and other financial instruments; (b) the progress of the programme in relation to the objectives set, on the basis of output and result indicators; (c) the financial implementation of the programme giving, for each measure, a statement of the expenditure paid to beneficiaries; if the programme covers regions eligible under the Convergence Objective, expenditure shall be identified separately; (d) a summary of the ongoing evaluation activities in accordance with Article 86(3); (e) the steps taken by the Managing Authority and the Monitoring Committee to ensure the quality and effectiveness of programme implementation, in particular: (i) monitoring and evaluation measures; (ii) a summary of the major problems encountered in managing the programme and any measures taken, including in response to comments made under Article 83; (iii) use of technical assistance; (iv) steps taken to ensure that the programme is publicised in accordance with Article 76; (f) a declaration on compliance with Community policies in the context of the support, including identification of the problems encountered and the measures adopted to deal with them; (g) where applicable, re-utilisation of aid recovered under Article 33 of Regulation (EC) No 1290/2005. 3.
The report shall be judged admissible with a view to applying Article 26 of Regulation (EC) No 1290/2005 if it contains all the elements listed in paragraph 2 and enables programme implementation to be appraised.
Details concerning annual progress reports for specific programmes pursuant to Article 66(3) shall be fixed in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 90(2).
Article 83 Annual examination of programmes 1.
CHAPTER II EVALUATION Article 84 General provisions 1.
Rural development programmes shall be subject to ex ante, mid-term and ex post evaluations in accordance with Articles 85, 86 and 87. 2.
The evaluations referred to in paragraph 1 shall be carried out by independent evaluators.
Article 85 Ex ante evaluation 1.
Article 86 Mid-term and ex post evaluation 1.
In 2015, ongoing evaluation shall take the form of a separate ex post evaluation report. 6.
Article 87 Summary of ex post evaluations 1.
The summary of ex post evaluations shall be completed at the latest by 31 December 2016.
TITLE VIII STATE AID Article 88 Application of the rules to State aid 1.
Save as otherwise provided in this Title, Articles 87, 88 and 89 of the Treaty shall apply to support for rural development by Member States.
However, Articles 87, 88 and 89 of the Treaty shall not apply to financial contributions provided by Member States as counterpart of Community support for rural development within the scope of Article 36 of the Treaty in accordance with this Regulation. 2.
State aid to support farmers who enter into agri-environmental or animal welfare commitments which fail to satisfy the conditions laid down in Articles 39 and 40 respectively shall be prohibited.
However, additional aid exceeding the maximum amounts fixed in accordance with that Article may be granted to help farmers to comply with national legislation which exceeds Community standards. 6.
Article 89 Additional national financing State aid intended to provide additional financing for rural development for which Community support is granted, shall be notified by Member States and approved by the Commission in accordance with this Regulation as part of the programming referred to in Article 16.
TITLE IX TRANSITIONAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS Article 90 Committee 1.
Where reference is made to this paragraph, Articles 4 and 7 of Decision 1999/468/EC shall apply.
Article 91 Implementing rules Over and above the measures set out in particular provisions of this Regulation, detailed rules shall be adopted for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 90(2).
Article 92 Transitional provisions 1.
Should specific measures be necessary to facilitate the transition from the system in force to that established by this Regulation, such measures shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 90(2). 2.
Such measures shall in particular be adopted to integrate existing Community support approved by the Commission from either the EAGGF Guidance or Guarantee section for a period ending after 1 January 2007 into the rural development support provided for by this Regulation and to cover ex post evaluations of the programmes of the period 2000-2006.
Article 93 Repeal 1.
These provisions shall be repealed with effect from 1 January 2010, subject to an act of the Council adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 37 of the Treaty.
Regulation (EC) No 1257/1999 shall continue to apply to actions approved by the Commission under that Regulation before 1 January 2007. 2.
Article 94 Entry into force This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
It shall apply to Community support concerning the programming period starting on 1 January 2007.
However, this Regulation shall not apply before the entry into force of the Community legislation laying down general provisions governing the ERDF, the ESF and the CF, for the period from 1 January 2007 to 31 December 2013, with the exception of Articles 9, 90, 91 and 92, which shall apply from the entry into force of this Regulation.
Notwithstanding the second subparagraph, Articles 37, 50(2) to (4) and 88(3) shall apply from 1 January 2010, subject to an act of the Council adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 37 of the Treaty.
Done at Brussels, 20 September 2005.
Regulation as last amended by Commission Regulation (EC) No 118/2005 (OJ L 24, 27.1.2005, p. 15). [3] OJ L 160, 26.6.1999, p. 80.
Regulation as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 2223/2004 (OJ L 379, 24.12.2004, p. 1). [4] OJ L 103, 25.4.1979, p. 1.
Directive as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 807/2003 (OJ L 122, 16.5.2003, p. 36). [5] OJ L 206, 22.7.1992, p. 7.
Directive as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 1882/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 284, 31.10.2003, p. 1). [6] OJ L 327, 22.12.2000, p. 1.
Directive as amended by Decision No 2455/2001/EC (OJ L 331, 15.12.2001, p. 1). [7] OJ L 142, 2.6.1997, p. 1.
Regulation repealed by Regulation (EC) No 1257/1999. [8] OJ L 209, 11.8.2005, p. 1. [9] Council Regulation (EC) No 1263/1999 of 21 June 1999 on the Financial Instrument for Fisheries Guidance (OJ L 161, 26.6.1999, p. 54). [10] OJ L 184, 27.7.1993, p. 1.
Regulation as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 1782/2003. [11] OJ L 184, 17.7.1999, p. 23. [12] Opinion of 9 March 2005 (not yet published in the Official Journal). [13] Opinion of 23 February 2005 (OJ C 164, 5.7.2005, p. 18). [14] OJ L 154, 21.6.2003, p. 1. [15] OJ L 134, 30.4.2004, p. 114. [16] OJ L 124, 20.5.2003, p. 36. [17] OJ C 244, 1.10.2004, p. 2. [18] OJ L 38, 12.2.2000, p. 1.
Decision as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 2139/2004 (OJ L 369, 16.12.2004, p. 26). [19] Commission notice to the Member States laying down guidelines for global grants or integrated operational programmes for which Member States are invited to submit applications for assistance in the framework of a Community initiative for rural development (Leader II) (OJ C 180, 1.7.1994, p. 48). [20] Commission notice to the Member States of 14 April 2000 laying down guidelines for the Community initiative for rural development (Leader+) (OJ C 139, 18.5.2000, p. 5).
Notice as last amended by Commission communication amending the notice to the Member States of 14 April 2000 laying down guidelines for the Community Initiative for rural development (Leader+) (OJ C 294, 4.12.2003, p. 11). [21] OJ L 248, 16.9.2002, p. 1. [22] OJ L 145, 13.6.1977, p. 1.
Directive as last amended by Directive 2004/66/EC (OJ L 168, 1.5.2004, p. 35). [23] OJ L 145, 31.5.2001, p. 43. -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX AMOUNTS AND RATES OF SUPPORT Article | Subject | Amount in EUR or rate | | 22(2) | Setting up support | 55000 | | 23(6) | Early retirement | 18000 | Per transferor per year | | | 180000 | Total amount per transferor | | | 4000 | Per worker per year | | | 40000 | Total amount per worker | 24(2) | Advisory services | 80 % | Of the eligible cost per advisory service | | | 1500 | Maximum eligible amount | 26(2) | Intensity of aid for the modernisation of agricultural holdings | 60 % | Of the amount of eligible investment by young farmers in the areas referred to in Article 36(a)(i), (ii) and (iii) | | | 50 % | Of the amount of eligible investment by other farmers in the areas referred to in Article 36(a)(i), (ii) and (iii) | | | 50 % | Of the amount of eligible investment by young farmers in other areas | | | 40 % | Of the amount of eligible investment by other farmers in other areas | | | 75 % | Of the amount of eligible investment in the outermost regions and the smaller Aegean Islands within the meaning of Regulation (EEC) No 2019/93 | | | 75 % | Of the amount of eligible investment in the Member States which acceded to the Community on 1 May 2004, for the implementation of Council Directive 91/676/EEC within a maximum period of four years from the date of Accession pursuant to Articles 3(2) and 5(1) of that Directive | 27(3) | Intensity of aid for the improvement of the economic value of forests | 60 % | Of the amount of eligible investment in the areas referred to in Article 36(a)(i), (ii) and (iii) | | | 50 % | Of the amount of eligible investment in other areas | | | 85 % | Of the amount of eligible investment in the outermost regions | 28(2) | Intensity of aid for adding value to agricultural and forestry products | 50 % | Of the amount of eligible investment in regions eligible under the Convergence Objective | | | 40 % | Of the amount of eligible investment in other regions | | | 75 % | Of the amount of eligible investment in the outermost regions | | | 65 % | Of the amount of eligible investment in the smaller Aegean Islands within the meaning of Regulation (EEC) No 2019/93 | 31(2) | Maximum amount of support for meeting standards | 10000 | Per holding | 32(2) | Maximum amount of support for participation in food quality schemes | 3000 | Per holding | 33 | Intensity of aid for information and promotion activities | 70 % | Of the eligible cost of the action | 34(3) | Maximum amount for semi-subsistence agricultural holdings | 1500 | Per agricultural holding per year | 35(2) | Producer groups: ceiling, as a percentage of marketed production during the first five years following recognition | 5 %, 5 %, 4 %, 3 %, and 2 % | For the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th and 5th year respectively for marketed production up to EUR 1000000 | | | 2,5 %, 2,5 %, 2,0 %, 1,5 % and 1,5 % | For the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th and 5th year respectively for marketed production exceeding EUR 1000000 | | But not exceeding in respect of each of the first five years the amount of | 100000 100000 80000 60000 50000 | For the 1st year For the 2nd year For the 3rd year For the 4th year For the 5th year | 37(3) | Minimum handicap payment | 25 | Per hectare of UAA | | Maximum handicap payment for mountain areas | 250 | Per hectare of UAA | | Maximum payment for areas with other handicaps | 150 | Per hectare of UAA | 38(2) | Initial maximum Natura 2000 payment for a period not exceeding five years | 500 | Per hectare of UAA | | Normal maximum Natura 2000 payment | 200 | Per hectare of UAA | 39(4) | Annual crops | 600 | Per hectare | | Specialised perennial crops | 900 | Per hectare | | Other land uses | 450 | Per hectare | | Local breeds in danger of being lost to farming | 200 | Per livestock unit | 40(3) | Animal welfare | 500 | Per livestock unit | 43(4) | Maximum annual premium to cover loss of income from afforestation | | | | for farmers or associations thereof | 700 | Per hectare | | for any other natural persons or private-law bodies | 150 | Per hectare | 43(4), 44(4) and 45(3) | Intensity of aid for establishment costs | 80 % | Of eligible costs in the areas referred to in Article 36(a)(i), (ii) and (iii) | | | 70 % | Of eligible costs in other areas | | | 85 % | Of eligible costs in the outermost regions | 46 and 47(2) | Natura 2000 and forest-environment annual payment | | | | minimum payment | 40 | Per hectare | | maximum payment | 200 | Per hectare | [1] Council Directive 91/676/EEC of 12 December 1991 concerning the protection of waters against pollution caused by nitrates from agricultural sources (OJ L 375, 31.12.1991, p. 1). [2] The setting up support may be given in the form of a single premium up to a maximum of EUR 40000, or in the form of an interest rate subsidy, the capitalised value of which may not exceed EUR 40000.
For both forms of support combined, the maximum may not exceed EUR 55000. [3] Not applicable in the case of State owned tropical οr subtropical forests and wooded areas of the territories of the Azores, Madeira, the Canary Islands, the smaller Aegean Islands within the meaning of Regulation (EEC) No 2019/93 and the French overseas departments. [4] In the case of Malta, the Commission may set a minimum amount of aid for sectors of production in which total output is extremely small. [5] These amounts may be increased in exceptional cases taking account of specific circumstances to be justified in the rural development programmes. --------------------------------------------------
