Where, pursuant to Article 97 of the Treaty, a Member State introduces or alters an average rate in order to offset, with respect both to imports and to exports, the turnover tax which is directly or indirectly imposed on the manufacture of a product or group of products, that rate shall be calculated in 1OJ No C 10, 14.2.1968, p. 4. 2OJ No. 317, 28.12.1967, p. 9.
Article 3 For purposes of calculating the tax burdens on a product at the final stage of production, the tax burdens on all factors in the cost price at that stage may be taken into account.
For purposes of calculating the tax burden on a product at the penultimate stage, account may be taken of the burdens imposed at that stage on those raw materials, semi-finished products and finished products which are used in raw materials, semi-finished products or finished products taken into account at the final stage, or in any other factor or component taken into account at the final stage, if it represents at that stage not less than 3 % of the selling price of the final product before tax. 2.
The burden thus calculated for previous stages may not exceed that which would result from applying Articles 4 and 6 to that factor or component.
Where, in the case of a product or group of products, a Member State does not calculate the average tax burden in accordance with Articles 2 to 6, that burden may be estimated at a standard rate corresponding to 100 %, 75 %, 50 % or 30 % of the standard rate of turnover tax, according to whether the factors and components of the product or group of products which may be taken into account at the final stage and are liable to the standard rate or to the increased rate of turnover tax represent 65 %, 50 %, 35 % or less than 35 %, respectively, of the selling price of the product or group of products before tax. 2.
Article 11 Member States shall communicate to the Commission the text of the main provisions of national law which they subsequently adopt in the field covered by this Directive.
