It issued a recommendation on 26 July 1983 concerning the mutual recognition of compliance with GLP.
The principles of GLP have been modified by OECD Council Decision (C(97) 186 (final)). (9) Animal protection requires that the number of experiments conducted on animals be restricted.
Member States shall take all measures necessary to ensure that laboratories carrying out tests on chemical products, in accordance with Directive 67/548/EEC, comply with the principles of good laboratory practice (GLP) as laid down in Annex I to this Directive. 2.
Paragraph 1 shall apply also where other Community provisions provide for the application of the principles of GLP in respect of tests on chemical products to evaluate their safety for man and/or the environment.
Article 2 When submitting results, the laboratories referred to in Article 1 shall certify that the tests have been carried out in conformity with the principles of GLP referred to in that Article.
Article 4 Any adaptation to the principles of GLP mentioned in Article 1 shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 29 of Directive 67/548/EEC.
Article 6 Directive 87/18/EEC is hereby repealed, without prejudice to the obligations of the Member States concerning the time limits for transposition of the Directives set out in Annex II, part B.
Article 7 This Directive shall enter into force on the 20th day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Article 8 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Strasbourg, 11 February 2004.
Cox For the Council The President M.
In 1995 and 1996, a new group of experts was formed to revise and update the principles.
Definition of terms 2.1.
Terms concerning the organisation of a test facility 1.
Study plan deviation means an unintended departure from the study plan after the study initiation date. 6.
Study completion date means the date the study director signs the final report. 2.4.
Terms concerning the test item 1.
SECTION II GOOD LABORATORY PRACTICE PRINCIPLES 1.
Study director's responsibilities 1.
The study director is the single point of study control and has the responsibility for the overall conduct of the study and for its final report. 2.
Principal investigator's responsibilities The principal investigator will ensure that the delegated phases of the study are conducted in accordance with the applicable principles of good laboratory practice. 1.4.
Study personnel's responsibilities 1.
Quality assurance programme 2.1.
Facilities 3.1.
Test system facilities 1.
Test systems 5.1.
Physical/chemical 1.
Characterisation 1.
Standard operating procedures 1.
Performance of the study 8.1.
Conduct of the study 1.
The study should be conducted in accordance with the study plan. 3.
The final report should be signed and dated by the study director to indicate acceptance of responsibility for the validity of the data.
