For the purpose of this Directive, (a) %quot%labelling%quot% shall mean any words, particulars, trade marks, brand name, pictorial matter or symbol relating to a foodstuff and placed on any packaging, document, notice, label, ring or collar accompanying or referring to such foodstuff; (b) %quot%pre-packaged foodstuff%quot% shall mean any single item for presentation as such to the ultimate consumer and to mass caterers, consisting of a foodstuff and the packaging into which it was put before being offered for sale, whether such packaging encloses the foodstuff completely or only partially, but in any case in such a way that the contents cannot be altered without opening or changing the packaging.
The prohibitions or restrictions referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall also apply to: (a) the presentation of foodstuffs, in particular their shape, appearance or packaging, the packaging materials used, the way in which they are arranged and the setting in which they are displayed; (b) advertising.
Without prejudice to the notification provided for in Article 24, Member States shall inform the Commission and the other Member States of any measure taken pursuant to the second paragraph; (8) particulars of the place of origin or provenance where failure to give such particulars might mislead the consumer to a material degree as to the true origin or provenance of the foodstuff; (9) instructions for use when it would be impossible to make appropriate use of the foodstuff in the absence of such instructions; (10) with respect to beverages containing more than 1,2 % by volume of alcohol, the actual alcoholic strength by volume. 2.
Community provisions applicable to specified foodstuffs and not to foodstuffs in general may provide for derogations, in exceptional cases, from the requirements laid down in Article 3(1), points 2 and 5, provided that this does not result in the purchaser being inadequately informed. 2.
Community provisions applicable to specified foodstuffs and not to foodstuffs in general may provide that other particulars in addition to those listed in Article 3 must appear on the labelling.
Where there are no Community provisions, Member States may make provision for such particulars in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 19. 3.
The Community provisions referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 20(2).
Ingredients shall be listed in accordance with this Article and Annexes I, II and III. 2.
Ingredients shall be designated by their specific name, where applicable, in accordance with the rules laid down in Article 5.
However, the designation %quot%modified starch%quot% listed in Annex II must always be complemented by the indication of its specific vegetable origin, when that ingredient may contain gluten, - flavourings shall be designated in accordance with Annex III, - the specific Community provisions governing the indication of treatment of an ingredient with ionising radiation shall be adopted subsequently in accordance with Article 95 of the Treaty. 7.
The procedure laid down in Article 19 shall apply to any such national provisions.
The Community provisions referred to in this paragraph shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 20(2). 8.
In the case referred to in paragraph 4(b), a compound ingredient may be included in the list of ingredients, under its own designation in so far as this is laid down by law or established by custom, in terms of its overall weight, provided that it is immediately followed by a list of its ingredients.
Such a list, however, shall not be compulsory: (a) where the compound ingredient constitutes less than 25 % of the finished product; however, this exemption shall not apply in the case of additives, subject to the provisions of paragraph 4(c); (b) where the compound ingredient is a foodstuff for which a list of ingredients is not required under Community rules. 9.
The indication referred to in paragraph 1 shall be compulsory: (a) where the ingredient or category of ingredients concerned appears in the name under which the foodstuff is sold or is usually associated with that name by the consumer; or (b) where the ingredient or category of ingredients concerned is emphasised on the labelling in words, pictures or graphics; or (c) where the ingredient or category of ingredients concerned is essential to characterise a foodstuff and to distinguish it from products with which it might be confused because of its name or appearance; or (d) in the cases determined in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 20(2). 3.
Paragraph 2 shall not apply: (a) to an ingredient or category of ingredients: - the drained net weight of which is indicated in accordance with Article 8(4), or - the quantities of which are already required to be given on the labelling under Community provisions, or - which is used in small quantities for the purposes of flavouring, or - which, while appearing in the name under which the food is sold, is not such as to govern the choice of the consumer in the country of marketing because the variation in quantity is not essential to characterise the foodstuff or does not distinguish it from similar foods.
In cases of doubt it shall be decided by the procedure laid down in Article 20(2) whether the conditions laid down in this indent are fulfilled; (b) where specific Community provisions stipulate precisely the quantity of an ingredient or of a category of ingredients without providing for the indication thereof on the labelling; (c) in the cases referred to in the fourth and fifth indents of Article 6(5); (d) in the cases determined in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 20(2). 4.
Such provisions shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 20(2). 5.
The indication referred to in paragraph 1 shall appear either in or immediately next to the name under which the foodstuff is sold or in the list of ingredients in connection with the ingredient or category of ingredients in question. 6.
The net quantity of prepackaged foodstuffs shall be expressed: - in units of volume in the case of liquids, - in units of mass in the case of other products, using the litre, centilitre, millilitre, kilogram or gram, as appropriate.
Without prejudice to the notification provided for in Article 24, Member States shall inform the Commission and the other Member States of any measure taken pursuant to this point. 3.
Without prejudice to the notification provided for in Article 24, Member States shall inform the Commission and the other Member States of any measure taken pursuant to this paragraph. 4.
This list may be supplemented in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 20(2).
It shall not be compulsory to indicate the net quantity in the case of foodstuffs: (a) which are subject to considerable losses in their volume or mass and which are sold by number or weighed in the presence of the purchaser; (b) the net quantity of which is less than 5 g or 5 ml; however, this provision shall not apply to spices and herbs.
Community provisions or, where there are none, national provisions applicable to specified foodstuffs may in exceptional cases lay down thresholds which are higher than 5 g or 5 ml provided that this does not result in the purchaser being inadequately informed.
Without prejudice to the notification provided for in Article 24, Member States shall inform the Commission and the other Member States of any measure taken pursuant to this paragraph. 6.
The date shall be preceded by the words: - %quot%Best before ...%quot% when the date includes an indication of the day, - %quot%Best before end ...%quot% in other cases. 3.
The words referred to in paragraph 2 shall be accompanied by: - either the date itself, or - a reference to where the date is given on the labelling.
This derogation shall not apply to sprouting seeds and similar products such as legume sprouts, - wines, liqueur wines, sparkling wines, aromatised wines and similar products obtained from fruits other than grapes, and beverages falling within CN codes 22060091, 2206 00 93 and 2206 00 99 and manufactured from grapes or grape musts, - beverages containing 10 % or more by volume of alcohol, - soft drinks, fruit juices, fruit nectars and alcoholic beverages in individual containers of more than five litres, intended for supply to mass caterers, - bakers' or pastry cooks' wares which, given the nature of their content, are normally consumed within 24 hours of their manufacture, - vinegar, - cooking salt, - solid sugar, - confectionery products consisting almost solely of flavoured and/or coloured sugars, - chewing gums and similar chewing products, - individual portions of ice-cream.
The date shall be preceded by the words: - in Spanish: %quot%fecha de caducidad%quot%, - in Danish: %quot%sidste anvendelsesdato%quot%, - in German: %quot%verbrauchen bis%quot%, - in Greek: %quot%ανάλωση μέχρι%quot%, - in English: %quot%use by%quot%, - in French: %quot%à consommer jusqu'au%quot%, - in Italian: %quot%da consumare entro%quot%, - in Dutch: %quot%te gebruiken tot%quot%, - in Portuguese: %quot%a consumir até%quot%, - in Finnish: %quot%viimeinen käyttöajankohta%quot%, - in Swedish: %quot%sista förbrukningsdag%quot%.
The date shall consist of the day, the month and, possibly, the year, in that order and in uncoded form. 4.
In some cases it may be decided by the procedure laid down in Article 20(2) whether the conditions laid down in paragraph 1 are fulfilled.
The instructions for use of a foodstuff shall be indicated in such a way as to enable appropriate use to be made thereof. 2.
The procedure laid down in Article 19 shall apply to such national provisions.
The Community provisions referred to in this paragraph shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 20(2).
Article 12 The rules concerning indication of the alcoholic strength by volume shall, in the case of products covered by tariff heading Nos 22.04 and 22.05, be those laid down in the specific Community provisions applicable to such products.
The particulars mentioned in Article 3 and Article 4(2) shall be easy to understand and marked in a conspicuous place in such a way as to be easily visible, clearly legible and indelible.
This requirement may be extended to the particulars provided for in Article 4(2). 4.
Article 14 Where foodstuffs are offered for sale to the ultimate consumer or to mass caterers without prepackaging, or where foodstuffs are packaged on the sales premises at the consumer's request or prepackaged for direct sale, the Member States shall adopt detailed rules concerning the manner in which the particulars specified in Article 3 and Article 4(2) are to be shown.
Article 15 This Directive shall not affect the provisions of national laws which, in the absence of Community provisions, impose less stringent requirements for the labelling of foodstuffs presented in fancy packaging such as figurines or souvenirs.
Member States shall ensure that the sale is prohibited within their own territories of foodstuffs for which the particulars provided for in Article 3 and Article 4(2) do not appear in a language easily understood by the consumer, unless the consumer is in fact informed by means of other measures determined in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 20(2) as regards one or more labelling particulars. 2.
Within its own territory, the Member State in which the product is marketed may, in accordance with the rules of the Treaty, stipulate that those labelling particulars shall be given in one or more languages which it shall determine from among the official languages of the Community. 3.
Article 17 Member States shall refrain from laying down requirements more detailed than those already contained in Articles 3 to 13 concerning the manner in which the particulars provided for in Article 3 and Article 4(2) are to be shown.
Member States may not forbid trade in foodstuffs which comply with the rules laid down in this Directive by the application of non-harmonised national provisions governing the labelling and presentation of certain foodstuffs or of foodstuffs in general. 2.
Article 19 Where reference is made to this Article, the following procedure shall apply should a Member State deem it necessary to adopt new legislation.
Article 21 If temporary measures prove necessary to facilitate the application of this Directive, they shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure provided for in Article 20(2).
Article 22 This Directive shall not affect Community provisions relating to the labelling and presentation of certain foodstuffs already adopted on 22 December 1978.
Any amendments necessary to harmonise such provisions with the rules laid down in this Directive shall be decided in accordance with the procedure applicable to each of the provisions in question.
Article 23 This Directive shall not apply to products for export outside the Community.
Article 24 Member States shall ensure that the Commission receives the text of any essential provision of national law which they adopt in the field governed by this Directive.
Article 25 This Directive shall also apply to the French overseas departments.
Article 27 This Directive enters into force on the 20th day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Article 28 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 20 March 2000.
For the European Parliament The President N.
Fontaine For the Council The President J.
ANNEX III DESIGNATION OF FLAVOURINGS IN THE LIST OF INGREDIENTS 1.
The word %quot%natural%quot% or any other word having substantially the same meaning may be used only for flavourings in which the flavouring component contains exclusively flavouring substances as defined in Article 1(2)(b)(i) of Council Directive 88/388/EEC of 22 June 1988 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to flavourings for use in foodstuffs and to source materials for their production(1) and/or flavouring preparations as defined in Article 1(2)(c) of the said Directive. 3.
ANNEX IV PART A REPEALED DIRECTIVE AND ITS SUCCESSIVE AMENDMENTS (referred to by Article 26) Council Directive 79/112/EEC (OJ L 33, 8.2.1979, p. 1) Council Directive 85/7/EEC (OJ L 2, 3.1.1985, p. 22), only Article 1(9) Council Directive 86/197/EEC (OJ L 144, 29.5.1986, p. 38) Council Directive 89/395/EEC (OJ L 186, 30.6.1989, p. 17) Commission Directive 91/72/EEC (OJ L 42, 15.2.1991, p. 27) Commission Directive 93/102/EC (OJ L 291, 25.11.1993, p. 14) Commission Directive 95/42/EC (OJ L 182, 2.8.1995, p. 20) European Parliament and Council Directive 97/4/EC (OJ L 43, 14.2.1997, p. 21) PART B DEADLINES FOR TRANSPOSITION INTO NATIONAL LAW (referred to by Article 26) %gt%TABLE%gt% ANNEX V CORRELATION TABLE %gt%TABLE%gt%
