Measures should be put in place to prevent human disease caused by the consumption of meat infested with Trichinella. (3) On 22 November 2001, the Scientific Committee on Veterinary Measures relating to Public Health adopted an opinion on trichinellosis, epidemiology, methods of detection and Trichinella-free pig production.
On 1 December 2004, the Scientific Panel on biological hazards (Biohaz) of the European Food Safety Authority adopted an opinion on the suitability and details of freezing methods to allow human consumption of meat infected with Trichinella or Cysticercus.
On 9 and 10 March 2005, Biohaz adopted an opinion on risk assessment of a revised inspection of slaughter animals in areas with low prevalence of Trichinella. (4) Council Directive 77/96/EEC of 21 December 1976 on the examination for trichinae (trichinella spiralis) upon importation from third countries of fresh meat derived from domestic swine [4] was repealed by Directive 2004/41/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 April 2004 repealing certain Directives concerning food hygiene and health conditions for the production and placing on the market of certain products of animal origin intended for human consumption and amending Council Directives 89/662/EEC and 92/118/EEC and Council Decision 95/408/EC [5]. (5) Various laboratory methods have been approved for the detection of Trichinella in fresh meat.
CHAPTER II OBLIGATIONS OF COMPETENT AUTHORITIES AND OF FOOD BUSINESS OPERATORS Article 2 Sampling of carcases 1.
Article 3 Derogations 1.
By way of derogation from Article 2(1), carcases and meat of domestic swine kept solely for fattening and slaughter shall be exempt from Trichinella examination where the animals come from: (a) a holding or category of holdings that has been officially recognised by the competent authority as free from Trichinella in accordance with the procedure set out in Chapter II of Annex IV; (b) (i) forwarding of a notification to that effect by the Member State concerned, together with an initial report containing the information set out in Chapter II(D) of Annex IV, to the Commission and the other Member States; and (ii) approval of the region as a region presenting a negligible Trichinella risk in accordance with the following procedure: the other Member States shall have three months from receipt of the notification referred to in (i) to send written comments to the Commission.
Article 4 Trichinella examination and application of health mark 1.
Article 5 Training (a) a quality control programme of the tests used to detect Trichinella; and (b) a regular assessment of the testing, recording and analysis procedures used in the laboratory.
Article 6 Methods of detection 1.
Article 8 Recognition of officially Trichinella-free holdings The competent authority may officially recognise holdings or categories of holdings as free from Trichinella where the following requirements are complied with: (a) in the case of holdings, the requirements laid down in Chapter I and Chapter II(A), (B) and (D) of Annex IV; (b) in the case of categories of holdings, the requirements laid down in Chapter II(C) and (D) of Annex IV.
Article 9 Obligation on food business operators to inform Food business operators of holdings recognised as free from Trichinella shall inform the competent authority of any requirement as laid down in Chapter I and II(B) of Annex IV that is no longer fulfilled or of any other change that might affect holdings' Trichinella-free status.
Article 10 Inspection of Trichinella-free holdings The competent authority shall ensure that inspections are carried out periodically of holdings recognised as free from Trichinella.
Article 11 Monitoring programmes The competent authority shall implement a monitoring programme covering domestic swine, horses and other animal species susceptible for Trichinella coming from holdings or categories of holdings recognised as free from Trichinella or from regions where the risk of Trichinella in domestic swine is recognised as negligible, in order to verify that the animals are effectively free from Trichinella.
Article 12 Withdrawal of official recognition of Trichinella-free holdings or regions with negligible risk 1.
CHAPTER III IMPORTS Article 13 Import health requirements Meat of animal species that may be carriers of Trichinella, containing striated muscles and coming from a third country may only be imported into the Community if it has been examined for Trichinella in that third country before export.
Article 14 Derogations from Article 13 1.
Meat of domestic swine may be imported without having undergone the examination referred to in Article 13, provided it comes from a holding in a third country that has been recognised by the Community as officially free from Trichinella in accordance with Article 12 of Regulation (EC) No 854/2004 on the basis of a request from the competent authority of that country, accompanied by a report to the Commission providing evidence that the requirements set out in Chapter I of Annex IV are met. 2.
Meat of domestic swine may be imported without having undergone the examination referred to in Article 13, provided it has undergone a freezing treatment in accordance with Annex II carried out under the supervision of the competent authority in the third country.
Article 15 Documents The health certificate accompanying imports of meat as referred to in Article 13 shall be endorsed with a statement by the official veterinarian to the effect that: (a) the meat has been examined in the third country of origin in accordance with Article 13; or (b) the meat satisfies the requirements set out in Article 14(1) or (2).
That document shall accompany the meat in the original unless an exemption has been granted in accordance with Article 14(4) of Regulation (EC) No 854/2004.
CHAPTER IV TRANSITIONAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS Article 16 Transitional provisions 1.
The Member State may allow the trichinoscopic method set out in Chapter III of Annex I to be used for domestic swine and wild boar in exceptional cases until 31 December 2009, where: (a) single carcases as referred to in Article 2 need to be examined individually in an establishment that does not slaughter more than 15 domestic swine per day or 75 domestic swine per week or prepare for placing on the market more than 10 wild boar per day; and (b) the detection methods set out in Chapters I and II of Annex I are not available. 2.
Article 17 Entry into force This Regulation shall enter into force on the 20th day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
It shall apply from 1 January 2006.
Done at Brussels, 5 December 2005.
Where the samples are larger than 3 g, a meat mincer with openings of 2 to 4 mm or scissors must be used.
The upper side of the bottom must be raised 7 to 9 mm from the base of the frame formed by the sides and the ends.
Collecting of specimens and quantity to be digested (a) In the case of whole carcases of domestic swine, a specimen weighing at least 1 g is to be taken from a pillar of the diaphragm at the transition to the sinewy part.
In the case of breeding sows and boars, a larger sample weighing at least 2 g is to be taken from a pillar of the diaphragm at the transition to the sinewy part.
Subsequently, the sample is examined by trichinoscope or stereo-microscope at a 15 to 20 times magnification.
In all cases of suspect areas or parasite-like shapes, higher magnifications of 60 to 100 times must be used. (p) Digests are to be examined as soon as they are ready.
Where the digests are not examined within 30 minutes of preparation, they must be clarified as follows.
This volume is made up to 40 ml with tap water.
After a further settling period of 10 minutes, 30 ml of the supernatant fluid is withdrawn by suction, leaving a volume of no more than 10 ml for examination in a petri dish or larval counting basin.
The measuring cylinder is washed with no more than 10 ml of tap water and these washings are added to the sample in the petri dish or the larval counting basin for examination.
If the sediment is found to be unclear on examination, the sample is poured into a measuring cylinder and made up to 40 ml with tap water and then the above procedure is followed.
The procedure can be repeated 2 to 4 times until the fluid is clear enough for a reliable reading.
Pools of less than 100 g Where needed, up to 15 g can be added to a total pool of 100 g and examined together with these samples in accordance with 3(I).
For pools of up to 50 g, the digestion fluid and the ingredients may be reduced to 1 litre of water, 8 ml of hydrochloric acid and 5 g of pepsin.
Positive or doubtful results Where examination of a collective sample produces a positive or uncertain result, a further 20 g sample is taken from each pig in accordance with 2(a).
The 20 g samples from five pigs are pooled and examined using the method described above.
Collecting of specimens and quantity to be digested As stipulated in Chapter I(2). 3.
The length of the tube must be such that 15 ml remains in the measuring cylinder when the flanges of the syringe rest on the cylinder's rim. - The remaining 15 ml is poured into a larval counting basin or two petri dishes and examined using a trichinoscope or stereo-microscope. - The measuring cylinder is washed with 5 to 10 ml of tap water and the washings are added to the sample. - Digests are to be examined as soon as they are ready.
Where the digests are unclear or they are not examined within 30 minutes of their preparation, they must be clarified as follows: - the final sample of 60 ml is poured into a measuring cylinder and allowed to stand for 10 minutes; 45 ml of supernatant fluid is then removed by suction and the remaining 15 ml is made up to 45 ml with tap water, - after a further settling period of 10 minutes, 30 ml of supernatant fluid is removed by suction and the remaining 15 ml is poured into a petri dish or larval counting basin for examination, - the measuring cylinder is washed with 10 ml of tap water and these washings are added to the sample in the petri dish or the larval counting basin for examination.
Positive or doubtful results Where the result is positive or uncertain, the provisions laid down in Chapter I(3)(III) shall apply.
Apparatus and reagents As stipulated in Chapter II(A)(1).
when 2 to 5 ml of fluid is left in the funnel. (e) Once all the digestion fluid has been filtered, the filter disc is removed and placed in an 80 ml capacity plastic bag, together with 15 to 20 ml of rennilase solution.
Positive or doubtful results Where the result is positive or uncertain, the provisions laid down in Chapter I(3)(III) shall apply.
Automatic digestion method for pooled samples of up to 35 g 1.
If there is foam or any digestion liquid remaining in the chamber, repeat the procedure in accordance with V.
Positive or doubtful results Where the result is positive or uncertain, the provisions laid down in Chapter I(3)(III) shall apply.
CHAPTER III TRICHINOSCOPIC EXAMINATION 1.
Procedure (a) In general a compressorium is filled with 1,0 ± 0,1 g of meat, normally corresponding with 28 oat-kernel-size pieces.
The muscle must be clean of connective tissue and fat; (c) at least 5 g of sample is digested following the reference method of detection in Chapter I of Annex I or an equivalent method in Chapter II.
CHAPTER I OBLIGATIONS ON FOOD BUSINESS OPERATORS A.
CHAPTER II OBLIGATIONS ON THE COMPETENT AUTHORITIES A.
The competent authorities in Member States where Trichinella has been detected in domestic swine in the last 10 years may recognise a holding as free from Trichinella provided that: (a) at least two control visits are made in the 12 months preceding recognition of the holding to verify compliance with the requirements of Chapter I(A) of Annex IV; and (b) all pigs sent for slaughter during the 24 months preceding recognition or a longer time period if the competent authority decides it to be necessary have been tested to ensure to the satisfaction of the competent authority that a sufficient number of animals from the holding have been tested using one of the parasite detection methods described in Chapters I and II of Annex I; and (c) the results of the tests have been negative; and (d) a risk-based wildlife monitoring programme has been put in place in those areas where wildlife and holdings applying for Trichinella-free status coexist; the monitoring programme optimises parasite detection by applying the most suitable indicator animal and detection technique, by sampling as wide a number of animals and taking as large a meat sample as is feasible; parasites detected in wildlife are identified at species level in a Community or national reference laboratory; the Community reference laboratory can assist by preparing a standardised protocol for a wildlife monitoring programme.
The competent authority may decide to recognise a category of holdings as free from Trichinella where all of the following conditions are met: (a) all the requirements set out in Chapter I(A) of Annex IV are met, with the exception of point (k), which does not apply; and (b) no autochthonous Trichinella infestations in domestic animals have been detected in the country in the past 10 years, during which time continuous testing has been conducted on slaughtered swine population such as to provide at least 95 % confidence that where the prevalence of Trichinella exceeds 0,0001 %, any infestations will be detected; and (c) a clear description must be available of the category of holdings, the type of farming and the type of animals involved; and (d) a risk-based monitoring programme for wildlife has been established in accordance with Chapter II(A)(d) of Annex IV.
