PRESENT INVESTIGATION (2) Following the publication of a notice of impending expiry(3) of the anti-dumping measures in force, the Commission received a request for an expiry review lodged by the European Chemical Industry Council (CEFIC) on behalf of two producers, together representing a major proportion (more than 80 %) of the total Community production of powdered activated carbon (PAC).
The request alleged that injurious dumping of imports originating in the People's Republic of China (China) would be likely to recur if the measures expired. (3) Having determined, after consulting the Advisory Committee, that sufficient evidence existed for the initiation of a review, the Commission initiated an investigation(4) pursuant to Article 11(2) of Regulation (EC) No 384/96 (the basic Regulation). (4) The investigation into the likelihood of a continuation or recurrence of dumping and injury covered the period from 1 June 2000 to 31 May 2001 (IP).
The examination of trends relevant for the assessment of a likelihood of a continuation or recurrence of injury covered the period from 1997 up to the end of the IP (analysis period). (5) The Commission officially advised the applicant Community producers, the exporters and exporting producers in China, importers/traders, users and suppliers, which were known to be concerned, of the initiation of the review.
The Commission also gave the parties directly concerned the opportunity to make their views known in writing and to request a hearing. (6) The Commission sent out 26 questionnaires to unrelated importers/traders and 49 questionnaires to exporters and exporting producers in China.
PRODUCT UNDER CONSIDERATION AND LIKE PRODUCT (9) The product under consideration is the same as in the original investigation, i.e.
Therefore, for the purpose of implementation of the measures, the Community Customs Code Committee defined PAC in the following way: %quot%powdered activated carbon consists of at least 90 percent by mass ( % m/m) of particles with a size less than 0,5 mm%quot%.
China is an economy in transition and, as mentioned in recital 18, normal value had to be established on the basis of information obtained in a market economy third country.
LIKELIHOOD OF CONTINUATION OR RECURRENCE OF DUMPING 1.
It should be noted that since none of the Chinese exporters nor any importer in the Community cooperated during the present investigation, export data were established in accordance with Article 18 of the basic Regulation, i.e.
Imports dropped in 1996 after the imposition of the anti-dumping duty to 960 tonnes and remained relatively stable in the following years, reaching 842 tonnes in 1999, and 811 tonnes in 2000. (16) The market share of Chinese imports of PAC in the Community as recorded in Eurostat is less than 3 % but nonetheless significant, i.e.
Figures submitted by the cooperating producer in the United States of America and the Community producers behind the request for review showed that the production volume of both countries is comparable.
Furthermore, as mentioned in recital 12 PAC produced and sold in the United States of America was found to be a like product to PAC produced in China and exported to the Community.
Therefore, the export price was determined on the basis of facts available in accordance with Article 18 of the basic Regulation.
As already mentioned in recital 14 of the present Regulation, and in the absence of any other more reliable information, this was done by reference to Eurostat. (23) Data in Eurostat are recorded on a cif European Community frontier basis.
Given the non cooperation of the Chinese exporters or exporting producers, and in the absence of any more reliable information, the same amount for inland transport and packing was deducted from the fob export price. (26) As far as packing costs are concerned, evidence was submitted to the Commission by the complainant Community industry, which showed that at least some of the product exported to the Community was packed in bags while the normal value was established on an ex packaging costs basis.
The dumping margin was equal to the amount by which the normal value exceeded the prices for exports to the Community.
For that purpose the spare production capacity in China, export volume and the domestic market in China as well as the Chinese price behaviour to other third countries were examined.
Actual production of activated carbons in China amounted to about 100000 tonnes in 1998 according to a statistical industrial census, provided by the Community industry, of which 40 % or 40000 tonnes in powder form.
A spare capacity of approximately 30000 tonnes was thus available in 1998 for producing PAC. (32) On the basis of data available for prior years included in the abovementioned statistical industrial census, it was estimated that the annual growth rate of consumption, production and production capacity of PAC in China amounted to at least 5 %.
Due to the specific situation on the domestic market (see the following) the total spare capacity would be available for export. (33) Furthermore, according to the abovementioned statistical industrial census, the Chinese domestic market was characterised by a significant oversupply resulting in unstable prices.
As regards the United States and according to the evidence provided by the Community industry, as well as the information provided by the cooperating producer in the United States of America, the level of dumping would exceed 40 %, while the dumping margin for exports to Japan would be over 90 %. (38) Considering the vast spare capacity available for exports and the export-driven Chinese PAC production, it is reasonable to assume that the dumping margins that could be practised in the Community, are likely to be at least at the same level as those to other major exporting markets of Chinese PAC, should anti-dumping measures lapse. 4.
Community consumption (41) Apparent Community consumption of PAC was established on the basis of the sales volumes of the Community industry on the Community market, the information contained in the request for review concerning the other Community producers and Eurostat in relation to imports of PAC. (42) On this basis Community consumption was practically stable during the analysis period at slightly below 40000 tonnes a year. 2.
Imports from China (a) Volume, market share and prices (43) Based on information from Eurostat, volumes imported from China during the analysis period slightly increased but remained below 3 % of consumption, whilst their market share was above 10 % in the previous investigation. (44) In the analysis period, prices of imports from China increased by 28 %, mainly for two reasons.
Firstly, because of the evolution of the euro/dollar exchange rate, especially between 1999 and 2000.
The difference with Community industry's prices was 15 % during the IP.
This differential was established on the basis of average sales prices (ex-works) of the Community industry, Chinese import prices being derived from Eurostat and adjusted for post importation cost, customs and anti-dumping duties. 3.
It increased slightly in 2000 and in the IP but remained 6 % below its 1997 level.
Overall, it fell in the analysis period by 7 percentage points to reach approximately 60 % in the IP. %gt%TABLE%gt% (d) Stocks (49) In the analysis period, the Community industry's year end stocks of PAC increased by 15 % as sales decreased and the equipment was continuously run in order to avoid furnace reignition costs that are very high. (e) Sales prices in the Community (50) The Community industry's average net sales prices increased by 7 % in the analysis period.
In 1999 and 2000 prices were higher than in the IP. %gt%TABLE%gt% (f) Profitability and return on investment (51) After having registered losses of 10 % in 1993, the IP of the previous investigation, the Community industry returned to profits in 1997.
Import volumes and prices from other third countries (59) The total import volumes of PAC from third countries other than China decreased during the analysis period from about 7600 tonnes in 1997 to 5400 tonnes in the IP, corresponding to market shares of around 20 % and 15 % respectively.
While imports from the United States of America have halved, imports from these latter countries increased from about 1100 tonnes in 1997 to 1900 tonnes in the IP.
Average import prices from Malaysia and Indonesia were lower than those of the Community industry and in the same range as prices of imports originating in China. 6.
They, thus, were able to gain market share from 10 % in 1997 to more than 20 % in the IP.
LIKELIHOOD OF RECURRENCE OF INJURY (62) It is recalled that in recital 39 it was concluded that the expiry of the measures would be likely to lead to a significant increase of dumped imports from China into the Community. (63) Indeed, should the measures lapse, it is likely that considerable volumes will be shipped to the Community market at very low prices which significantly undercut the Community industry's prices.
The current price differential of 15 % between the imported product and the Community industry's product (see recital 45) could increase to exceed 30 % (the amount of duty in relation to current import prices), if the measure were allowed to expire.
It should be noted that the current Chinese export price to the Community (on a cif basis) is in line with Chinese export prices to other third countries. (64) It is estimated that at least 10000 tonnes of PAC originating in China could be exported to the Community as soon as the duty has lapsed.
COMMUNITY INTEREST 1.
Preliminary remark (67) In accordance with Article 21 of the basic Regulation it was examined whether a prolongation of the existing anti-dumping measures would be against the interest of the Community as a whole.
Furthermore, the present investigation is a review, thus analysing a situation in which anti-dumping measures have already been in place, which would allow the assessment of any undue negative impact of the current anti-dumping measures on the parties concerned. (69) On this basis it was examined whether, despite the conclusion on the benefit of the measures for the Community industry and on the likelihood of a recurrence of injurious dumping should measures expire, compelling reasons existed which would lead to the conclusion that it is not in the Community interest to maintain measures in this particular case. 2.
Interests of unrelated importers/traders (72) The Commission sent out questionnaires to 26 unrelated importers/traders.
Interests of suppliers (75) The Commission sent out questionnaires to 11 suppliers of raw materials to PAC producers to which only two answers were received.
The replies were positive to keeping the measures in place as that would mean continued secured sales in the Community. 7.
A definitive anti-dumping duty is hereby imposed on imports of powdered activated carbon falling within CN code ex 3802 10 00 (TARIC code 3802 10 00*20 ) originating in the People's Republic of China. 2.
The amount of the definitive anti-dumping duty shall be EUR 323 per tonne (net weight).
Article 3 This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Done at Luxembourg, 10 June 2002.
