Article 2 The President of the Council shall give the notification provided for in Article 13 of the Agreement (2).
Article 3 This Regulation shall enter into force on the third day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Done at Luxembourg, 28 June 1984.
BOUCHARDEAU (1) OJ No C 277, 17.10.1983, p. 142. (2) The date of entry into force of the Agreement will be published in the Official Journal of the European Communities by the General Secretariat of the Council.
Article 5 The Parties undertake to coordinate action, either directly or within international organizations, to ensure the management and conservation of the living resources, particularly in the eastern-central Atlantic and in respect of highly migratory species, and to facilitate the relevant scientific research.
Article 6 In return for the fishing opportunities accorded under Article 2, the Community shall participate, in accordance with the conditions and arrangements stipulated in the Protocol annexed to this Agreement, in the execution of development projects in Equatorial Guinea, without prejudice to the financing received by Equatorial Guinea under the Lomé Convention.
Article 7 The Parties agree to enter into consultations in the event of a dispute concerning the interpretation or application of this Agreement.
Article 8 A Joint Committee shall be set up to ensure that this Agreement is applied correctly.
Article 9 Nothing in this Agreement shall affect or prejudice in any manner the views of either Party with respect to any matter relating to the Law of the Sea.
Article 10 This Agreement shall apply, on the one hand, to the territories in which the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community is applied and under the conditions laid down in that Treaty and, on the other hand, to the territory of Equatorial Guinea.
Article 11 The Annex and the Protocol form an integral part of this Agreement and, unless otherwise specified, a reference to this Agreement shall constitute a reference to them.
Article 12 This Agreement shall be concluded for an initial period of three years from the date of its entry into force.
Article 13 This Agreement shall enter into force on the date on which the Parties notify each other of the completion of the procedures necessary for this purpose.
For Rådet for De europæiske Fællesskaber Für den Rat der Europäischen Gemeinschaften %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%T0026036%quot%%gt% For the Council of the European Communities Pour le Conseil des Communautés européennes Per il Consiglio delle Comunità europee Voor de Raad van de Europese Gemeenschappen En nombre del Consejo de las Comunidades Europeas %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%T0026037%quot%%gt% For regeringen for republikken Ækvatorialguinea Für die Regierung der Republik Äquatorialguinea %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%T0026038%quot%%gt% For the Government of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea Pour le gouvernement de la république de Guinée équatoriale Per il governo della Repubblica della Guinea equatoriale Voor de Regering van de Republiek Equatoriaal Guinee En nombre del Gobierno de la República de Guinea Ecuatorial %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%T0026039%quot%%gt% ANNEX Conditions for the pursuit of fishing activities by Community vessels in Equatorial Guinea's fishing zone 1.
The fees provided for in Article 4 of the Agreement and payable by the shipowners referred to in 1 above are hereby set at 20 ECU per tonne caught in Equatorial Guinea's fishing zone. 3.
Once the Agreement enters into force, the sum of 40 000 ECU shall be paid by the shipowners to Equatorial Guinea's Treasury as an advance on the fees. 4.
The corresponding amount shall be paid to Equatorial Guinea's Treasury by 31 December of the current year at the latest.
PROTOCOL between the European Economic Community and the Government of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea Article 1 Pursuant to Article 2 of the Agreement and for the period of application of this Protocol, authorizations to fish in Equatorial Guinea's fishing zone shall be granted to 27 ocean-going freezer tuna boats.
Article 2 The contribution referred to in Article 6 of the Agreement shall be fixed at a flat rate amount of not less than 180 000 ECU per year.
