There shall also be SOPs describing the procedures for procurement, packaging, labelling and transportation of the tissues and cells to the point of arrival at the tissue establishment or, in the case of direct distribution of tissues and cells, to the clinical team responsible for their application or, in the case of tissue/cell samples, to the laboratory for testing, in accordance with Article 5 of this Directive. 6.
Procurement shall take place in appropriate facilities, following procedures that minimise bacterial or other contamination of procured tissues and cells, in accordance with Article 5. 7.
The procedures for the procurement of tissues and cells shall be carried out in accordance with the requirements specified in Article 5. 11.
Donor documentation shall be maintained in accordance with section 1.4 of Annex IV.
Article 3 Selection criteria for donors of tissues and cells The competent authority or authorities shall ensure that donors comply with the selection criteria set out in: (a) Annex I for donors of tissues and cells, except donors of reproductive cells; (b) Annex III for donors of reproductive cells.
Article 4 Laboratory tests required for donors 1.
The competent authority or authorities shall ensure that: (a) donors of reproductive cells undergo the biological tests set out in points 1, 2 and 3 of Annex III; (b) the tests referred to in point (a) above are carried out in compliance with the general requirements set out in point 4 of Annex III.
Article 6 Requirements for direct distribution to the recipient of specific tissues and cells The competent authority or authorities may authorise the direct distribution of specific tissues and cells from where the procurement is carried out to a health care establishment for immediate transplantation.
Article 8 Entry into force This Directive shall enter into force on the 20th day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Article 9 Addressees This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 8 February 2006.
For the Commission Markos Kyprianou Member of the Commission [1] OJ L 102, 7.4.2004, p. 48. -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX I SELECTION CRITERIA FOR DONORS OF TISSUES AND/OR CELLS (EXCEPT DONORS OF REPRODUCTIVE CELLS) AS REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE 3(a) Selection criteria for donors are based on an analysis of the risks related to the application of the specific cells/tissues.
Deceased Donors 1.1.
General criteria for exclusion 1.1.1.
Presence on the donor’s body of physical signs implying a risk of transmissible disease(s) as described in Annex IV, point 1.2.3. 1.1.11.
Living donors 2.1.
The following biological tests must be performed for all donors as a minimum requirement: HIV 1 and 2 | Anti-HIV-1,2 | Hepatitis B | HBsAg Anti HBc | Hepatitis C | Anti-HCV-Ab | Syphilis | See 1.4 (below) | 1.2.
HTLV-I antibody testing must be performed for donors living in, or originating from, high-incidence areas or with sexual partners originating from those areas or where the donor’s parents originate from those areas. 1.3.
RhD, HLA, malaria, CMV, toxoplasma, EBV, Trypanosoma cruzi). 1.6.
Tissue establishments may accept tissues and cells from donors with plasma dilution of more than 50 % only if the testing procedures used are validated for such plasma or if a pre-transfusion sample is available. 2.4.
Retesting is also not required if the processing includes an inactivation step that has been validated for the viruses concerned. 2.7.
In the case of bone marrow and peripheral blood stem-cell collection, blood samples must be taken for testing within 30 days prior to donation. 2.8.
Partner donation for direct use Donor selection criteria and laboratory testing do not need to be applied in the case of partner donation of reproductive cells for direct use. 2.
the following biological tests must be carried out to assess the risk of cross-contamination: HIV 1 and 2 | Anti-HIV-1,2 | Hepatitis B | HBsAg Anti-HBc | Hepatitis C | Anti-HCV-Ab | In case of sperm processed for intrauterine insemination and not to be stored, if the tissue establishment can demonstrate that the risk of cross contamination and staff exposure has been addressed through the use of validated processes, biological testing may not be required; 2.3.
HTLV-I antibody testing must be performed for donors living in or originating from high-incidence areas or with sexual partners originating from those areas or where the donor’s parents originate from those areas; 2.5.
The tests must be carried out in accordance with Annex II, points 2.1 and 2.2. 4.2.
Retesting is also not required if the processing includes an inactivation step that has been validated for the viruses concerned. -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX IV CELL AND/OR TISSUE DONATION AND PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES AND RECEPTION AT THE TISSUE ESTABLISHMENT AS REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE 5 1.
Before the procurement of tissues and cells proceeds, an authorised person must confirm and record: (a) that consent for the procurement has been obtained in accordance with Article 13 of Directive 2004/23/EC; and (b) how and by whom the donor has been reliably identified. 1.1.2.
Procurement procedures for tissues and cells 1.3.1.
Donor records required for full traceability must be kept for a minimum of 30 years after clinical use, or the expiry date, in an appropriate archive acceptable to the competent authority. 1.5.
In the case of reproductive cells intended for partner donation, the data to be registered at the tissue establishment include: (a) consent; including the purpose(s) for which the tissues and cells may be used (such as reproductive only and/or for research) and any specific instructions for disposal if the tissue or cells are not used for the purpose for which consent was obtained; (b) donor identification and characteristics: type of donor, age, sex, presence of risk factors and, in the case of a deceased donor, the cause of death; (c) partner identification; (d) place of procurement; (e) tissues and cells obtained and relevant characteristics. --------------------------------------------------
