It is appropriate to pursue and strengthen cooperation and Community action in that field on the basis of the experience acquired from that programme. (3) The extraordinary European Council on employment held in Luxembourg on 20 and 21 November 1997 adopted a coordinated employment strategy in which lifelong education and training have a fundamental role to play in implementing the guidelines set out in the Council resolution of 15 December 1997(6) for the Member States' employment policies in order to enhance employability, adaptability and the culture of entrepreneurship and to promote equal opportunities. (4) The Commission in its communication %quot%Towards a Europe of knowledge%quot% set out guidelines on the creation of an open and dynamic European education area capable of achieving the objective of lifelong education and training. (5) In its White Paper %quot%Teaching and learning - Towards the learning society%quot%, the Commission stated that the emergence of the learning society entails encouraging the acquisition of new knowledge and to this end providing motivation to learn at every opportunity.
It is important that the Youth programme committee be kept regularly informed about Community initiatives taken in the fields of education, vocational training and youth. (18) The European Councils of Essen (9 and 10 December 1994) and Cannes (26 and 27 June 1995) stressed the need for further action to enhance the social and vocational integration of young people in Europe.
The EEA Agreement lays down procedures for the participation of the EFTA States participating in the EEA in Community programmes in the field of education, training and youth. (24) Provision should be made to open up this programme to participation of the associated central and east European countries (CEEC) in accordance with the conditions established in the Europe Agreements, in their additional protocols and in the decisions of the respective Association Councils, of Cyprus, funded by additional appropriations in accordance with the procedures to be agreed with that country, as well as of Malta and Turkey, funded by additional appropriations, in accordance with the provisions of the Treaty. (25) This programme should be monitored and continually evaluated in cooperation between the Commission and the Member States in order to allow for readjustments, particularly in the priorities for implementing the measures. (26) In accordance with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality as defined in Article 5 of the Treaty, since the objectives of the proposed action concerning the development and strengthening of a cooperation policy in the youth field, including European voluntary service and youth exchanges both within the Community and with third countries, cannot be sufficiently achieved by the Member States because of the complexity and diversity of the youth field, they can therefore be better achieved by the Community owing to the transnational dimension of Community actions and measures.
This programme shall be implemented over the period starting on 1 January 2000 and ending on 31 December 2006. 3.
Article 2 Objectives of the programme 1.
The objectives of this programme as set out in Article 2 shall be pursued by means of the following actions, the operational content and the application procedures of which are described in the Annex: - Youth for Europe, - European voluntary service, - youth initiatives, - joint actions, - support measures. 2.
Article 4 Access to the programme 1.
This programme is aimed at young people, in principle between the ages of 15 and 25, as well as those involved in youth work, who are legal residents of a Member State.
Within the framework of actions 1.2, 2.2 and 5 set out in the Annex, this programme may also be aimed at young people, in principle aged from 15 to 25, and those involved in youth work who reside in third countries, without prejudice to the competences of the Member States. 2.
Article 5 Implementation of the programme and cooperation with the Member States 1.
Article 7 Implementing measures 1.
Article 8 Committee 1.
Where reference is made to this paragraph, Articles 4 and 7 of Decision 1999/468/EC shall apply, having regard to the provisions of Article 8 thereof.
Article 9 Funding 1.
The financial framework for the implementation of this programme for the period specified in Article 1 is hereby set at EUR 520 million. 2.
Article 10 Consistency and complementarity 1.
Article 11 Participation of the EFTA/EEA countries, the associated central and east European countries (CEEC), Cyprus, Malta and Turkey This programme shall be open to the participation of: - the EFTA/EEA countries in accordance with the conditions established in the EEA Agreement, - the associated central and east European countries (CEEC) in accordance with the conditions established in the Europe Agreements, in their additional protocols and in the decisions of the respective Association Councils, - Cyprus, funded by additional appropriations in accordance with the procedures to be agreed with that country, - Malta and Turkey, funded by additional appropriations in accordance with the provisions of the Treaty.
Article 12 International cooperation Under this programme, the Commission, acting in accordance with the procedures laid down in Article 7, shall strengthen its cooperation with non-Community countries and relevant international organisations, in particular the Council of Europe.
Article 13 Monitoring and evaluation 1.
The European Parliament and the Council will take a decision on such proposals as soon as possible, - an interim evaluation report on the qualitative and quantitative aspects of the implementation of this programme by 30 June 2005, - a final report on the implementation of this programme by 31 December 2007.
Article 14 Entry into force This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Done at Luxembourg, 13 April 2000.
Fontaine For the Council The President A.
In accordance with Article 4(3) of the Decision, efforts must be made to facilitate access to the programme for young people who face difficulties of a cultural, social, physical, mental, economic or geographical nature, as well as for small local groups.
The committee referred to in Article 8 of the Decision is to lay down the specific form these efforts should take.
In order to achieve the objectives of the programme, five categories of action are to be implemented on the basis of the measures described in Article 3 of the Decision: - Youth for Europe - European voluntary service - Youth initiatives - Joint actions - Support measures.
ACTION 1 - YOUTH FOR EUROPE Action 1.1: Intra-Community exchanges for young people The Community will support mobility activities for young people provided that the activities in question last at least one week, are carried out on the basis of joint projects within the Community and involve groups of young people aged in principle between 15 and 25 years and legally resident in a Member State.
Action 1.2: Exchanges of young people with third countries The Community will support mobility activities for young people provided that the activities in question last at least one week, are carried out on the basis of joint projects and involve groups of young people aged in principle between 15 and 25 years and legally resident in a Member State or in a third country.
Activities designed to strengthen the active involvement of young people in group mobility projects may receive funding, particularly in the form of activities to provide the young people in question with linguistic and intercultural preparation before their departure.
ACTION 2 - EUROPEAN VOLUNTARY SERVICE For the purposes of this programme, %quot%young volunteer%quot% is taken to be a person aged in principle between 18 and 25 years and legally resident in a Member State.
Action 2.1: Intra-Community European voluntary service The Community will support transnational projects (for a limited period ranging in principle from three weeks to one year) which involve young people, actively and personally, in activities designed to help meet the needs of society in a wide range of fields (social, sociocultural, environmental, cultural, etc.) which constitute at the same time an experience of informal education with a view to acquiring social and cultural skills.
The Community may support schemes, particularly those with a linguistic or intercultural element, which aim at preparing young volunteers for their departure and easing their social integration during those activities as well as when they have completed their period of European voluntary service.
Action 2.2: European voluntary service with third countries The Community will support transnational projects with third countries (for a limited period ranging in principle from three weeks to one year) which involve young people, actively and personally, in activities designed to help meet the needs of society in a wide range of fields (social, sociocultural, environmental, cultural, etc.) which constitute at the same time an experience of informal education with a view to acquiring social and cultural skills.
ACTION 3 - YOUTH INITIATIVES In order to encourage initiative and creativity among young people, the Community will support projects in which young people actively and directly participate in innovative and creative schemes and in schemes which focus on the social commitment of young people at local, regional, national or European level.
Those initiatives taken by young people after completing their European voluntary service will allow them to launch and promote activities of a social, cultural, sociocultural and economic nature and/or aim at their personal development.
ACTION 4 - JOINT ACTIONS Having regard to the need for a flexible and creative approach as a precondition for cooperation between sectors, Community aid may be granted for the actions referred to in Article 6 of the Decision and for activities to be undertaken jointly with other Community schemes relating to the Europe of knowledge, in particular Community programmes in the field of education and vocational training.
Action 5.2: Information for young people and youth studies 1.
Action 5.4: Support measures 1.
National agencies Community assistance may be provided to support the activities of the structures set up by Member States, in accordance with Article 5 of the Decision. 2.
Furthermore, the Commission will be able to undertake evaluation studies and organise such seminars, colloquia or other meetings of experts as are likely to facilitate the implementation of the programme, including application of Article 12 of the Decision.
