Directive 2006/43/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 May 2006 on statutory audits of annual accounts and consolidated accounts, amending Council Directives 78/660/EEC and 83/349/EEC and repealing Council Directive 84/253/EEC (Text with EEA relevance) Directive 2006/43/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 May 2006 on statutory audits of annual accounts and consolidated accounts, amending Council Directives 78/660/EEC and 83/349/EEC and repealing Council Directive 84/253/EEC (Text with EEA relevance) THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular Article 44(2)(g) thereof, Having regard to the proposal from the Commission, Having regard to the opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee [1], Acting in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 251 of the Treaty [2], Whereas: (1) Currently, the Fourth Council Directive 78/660/EEC of 25 July 1978 on the annual accounts of certain types of companies [3], the Seventh Council Directive 83/349/EEC of 13 June 1983 on consolidated accounts [4], Council Directive 86/635/EEC of 8 December 1986 on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of banks and other financial institutions [5] and Council Directive 91/674/EEC of 19 December 1991 on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of insurance undertakings [6] require that the annual accounts or consolidated accounts be audited by one or more persons entitled to carry out such audits. (2) The conditions for the approval of persons responsible for carrying out the statutory audit were laid down in the Eighth Council Directive 84/253/EEC of 10 April 1984 on the approval of persons responsible for carrying out the statutory audits of accounting documents [7]. (3) The lack of a harmonised approach to statutory auditing in the Community was the reason why the Commission proposed, in its 1998 Communication on the statutory audit in the European Union: the way forward [8], the creation of a Committee on Auditing which could develop further action in close cooperation with the accounting profession and Member States. (4) On the basis of the work of that Committee, on 15 November 2000 the Commission issued a Recommendation on quality assurance for the statutory audit in the European Union: minimum requirements [9] and on 16 May 2002 a Recommendation on Statutory Auditors' Independence in the EU: A Set of Fundamental Principles [10]. (5) This Directive aims at high-level — though not full — harmonisation of statutory audit requirements.
Such knowledge should be tested before a statutory auditor from another Member State can be approved. (8) In order to protect third parties, all approved auditors and audit firms should be entered in a register which is accessible to the public and which contains basic information concerning statutory auditors and audit firms. (9) Statutory auditors should adhere to the highest ethical standards.
Where a cooperative within the meaning of Article 2(14), or a similar entity as referred to in Article 45 of Directive 86/635/EEC, is required or permitted under national provisions to be a member of a non-profit-making auditing entity, an objective, reasonable and informed party would not conclude that the membership-based relationship compromises the statutory auditor's independence, provided that when such an auditing entity is conducting a statutory audit of one of its members, the principles of independence are applied to the auditors carrying out the audit and those persons who may be in a position to exert influence on the statutory audit.
In doing so, the Commission might take into consideration the principles contained in the abovementioned Recommendation of 16 May 2002.
For the purposes of determining whether it is appropriate, in cases of self-interest or self-review, that a statutory auditor or audit firm should not carry out statutory audits, so as to safeguard the statutory auditor's or audit firm's independence, the factors to be taken into account should include the question whether or not the audited public-interest entity has issued transferable securities admitted to trading on a regulated market within the meaning of point 14 of Article 4(1) of Directive 2004/39/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 April 2004 on markets in financial instruments [11]. (13) It is important to ensure consistently high quality in all statutory audits required by Community law.
For the application of Article 29 on quality assurance systems, Member States may decide that if individual auditors have a common quality assurance policy, only the requirements for audit firms need to be considered.
Member States might have regard to the Commission Recommendation of 15 February 2005 on the role of non-executive or supervisory directors of listed companies and on the committees of the (supervisory) board [13], which sets out how audit committees should be established and function.
In any case, an entity which has issued transferable securities on a regulated market within the meaning of point 14 of Article 4(1) of Directive 2004/39/EC should always be audited by an auditor either registered in a Member State or overseen by competent authorities of the third country from which the auditor comes from, provided that the said third country is acknowledged by the Commission or a Member State as meeting the requirements equivalent to Community requirements in the field of principles of oversight, quality assurance systems and systems of investigations and penalties, and that the basis of this arrangement is reciprocity.
Pending such a decision by the Commission, and without prejudice thereto, Member States may assess whether the requirements are adequate. (29) Disclosure of information as referred to in Articles 36 and 47 should be in accordance with the rules on the transfer of personal data to third countries as laid down in Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 October 1995 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data [15]. (30) The measures necessary for the implementation of this Directive should be adopted in accordance with Decision 1999/468/EC and with due regard to the declaration made by the Commission in the European Parliament on 5 February 2002 concerning the implementation of financial services legislation. (31) The European Parliament should be given a period of three months from the first transmission of draft amendments and implementing measures to allow it to examine them and to give its opinion.
If, within that period, a resolution is adopted by the European Parliament, the Commission should re-examine the draft amendments or measures. (32) Since the objectives of this Directive — namely requiring the application of a single set of international auditing standards, the updating of the educational requirements, the definition of professional ethics and the technical implementation of the cooperation between competent authorities of Member States and between those authorities and the authorities of third countries, in order further to enhance and harmonise the quality of statutory audit in the Community and to facilitate cooperation between Member States and with third countries so as to strengthen confidence in the statutory audit — cannot be sufficiently achieved by the Member States and can therefore, by reason of the scale and effects of this Directive, be better achieved at Community level, the Community may adopt measures, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity as set out in Article 5 of the Treaty.
In accordance with the principle of proportionality, as set out in that Article, this Directive does not go beyond what is necessary in order to achieve those objectives. (33) With a view to rendering the relationship between the statutory auditor or audit firm and the audited entity more transparent, Directives 78/660/EEC and 83/349/EEC should be amended so as to require disclosure of the audit fee and the fee paid for non-audit services in the notes to the annual accounts and the consolidated accounts. (34) Directive 84/253/EEC should be repealed because it lacks a comprehensive set of rules to ensure an appropriate audit infrastructure, such as public oversight, disciplinary systems and systems of quality assurance, and because it does not provide specifically for regulatory cooperation between Member States and third countries.
Member States may also designate other entities as public-interest entities, for instance entities that are of significant public relevance because of the nature of their business, their size or the number of their employees; 14. %quot%cooperative%quot% means a European Cooperative Society as defined in Article 1 of Council Regulation (EC) No 1435/2003 of 22 July 2003 on the Statute for a European Cooperative Society (SCE) [17], or any other cooperative for which a statutory audit is required under Community law, such as credit institutions as defined in point 1 of Article 1 of Directive 2000/12/EC and insurance undertakings within the meaning of Article 2(1) of Directive 91/674/EEC; 15. %quot%non-practitioner%quot% means any natural person who, for at least three years before his or her involvement in the governance of the public oversight system, has not carried out statutory audits, has not held voting rights in an audit firm, has not been a member of the administrative or management body of an audit firm and has not been employed by, or otherwise associated with, an audit firm; 16. %quot%key audit partner(s)%quot% mean(s): (a) the statutory auditor(s) designated by an audit firm for a particular audit engagement as being primarily responsible for carrying out the statutory audit on behalf of the audit firm; or (b) in the case of a group audit, at least the statutory auditor(s) designated by an audit firm as being primarily responsible for carrying out the statutory audit at the level of the group and the statutory auditor(s) designated as being primarily responsible at the level of material subsidiaries; or (c) the statutory auditor(s) who sign(s) the audit report.
CHAPTER II APPROVAL, CONTINUING EDUCATION AND MUTUAL RECOGNITION Article 3 Approval of statutory auditors and audit firms 1.
The competent authorities may be professional associations, provided that they are subject to a system of public oversight as provided for in Chapter VIII. 3.
Without prejudice to Article 11, the competent authorities of the Member States may approve as statutory auditors only natural persons who satisfy at least the conditions laid down in Articles 4 and 6 to 10. 4.
Article 4 Good repute The competent authorities of a Member State may grant approval only to natural persons or firms of good repute.
Article 5 Withdrawal of approval 1.
Article 6 Educational qualifications Without prejudice to Article 11, a natural person may be approved to carry out a statutory audit only after having attained university entrance or equivalent level, then completed a course of theoretical instruction, undergone practical training and passed an examination of professional competence of university final or equivalent examination level, organised or recognised by the Member State concerned.
Article 7 Examination of professional competence The examination of professional competence referred to in Article 6 shall guarantee the necessary level of theoretical knowledge of subjects relevant to statutory audit and the ability to apply such knowledge in practice.
Article 8 Test of theoretical knowledge 1.
The Commission may, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 48(2), adapt the list of subjects to be included in the test of theoretical knowledge referred to in paragraph 1.
By way of derogation from Articles 7 and 8, a Member State may provide that a person who has passed a university or equivalent examination or holds a university degree or equivalent qualification in one or more of the subjects referred to in Article 8 may be exempted from the test of theoretical knowledge in the subjects covered by that examination or degree. 2.
By way of derogation from Article 7, a Member State may provide that a holder of a university degree or equivalent qualification in one or more of the subjects referred to in Article 8 may be exempted from the test of the ability to apply in practice his or her theoretical knowledge of such subjects if he or she has received practical training in those subjects attested by an examination or diploma recognised by the State.
Article 10 Practical training 1.
Article 11 Qualification through long-term practical experience A Member State may approve a person who does not satisfy the conditions laid down in Article 6 as a statutory auditor, if he or she can show either: (a) that he or she has, for 15 years, engaged in professional activities which have enabled him or her to acquire sufficient experience in the fields of finance, law and accountancy, and has passed the examination of professional competence referred to in Article 7, or (b) that he or she has, for seven years, engaged in professional activities in those fields and has, in addition, undergone the practical training referred to in Article 10 and passed the examination of professional competence referred to in Article 7.
Article 12 Combination of practical training and theoretical instruction 1.
Member States may provide that periods of theoretical instruction in the fields referred to in Article 8 shall count towards the periods of professional activity referred to in Article 11, provided that such instruction is attested by an examination recognised by the State.
Article 13 Continuing education Member States shall ensure that statutory auditors are required to take part in appropriate programmes of continuing education in order to maintain their theoretical knowledge, professional skills and values at a sufficiently high level, and that failure to respect the continuing education requirements is subject to appropriate penalties as referred to in Article 30.
Article 14 Approval of statutory auditors from other Member States The competent authorities of the Member States shall establish procedures for the approval of statutory auditors who have been approved in other Member States.
CHAPTER III REGISTRATION Article 15 Public register 1.
Each Member State shall ensure that statutory auditors and audit firms are entered in a public register in accordance with Articles 16 and 17.
In exceptional circumstances, Member States may disapply the requirements laid down in this Article and Article 16 regarding disclosure only to the extent necessary to mitigate an imminent and significant threat to the personal security of any person. 2.
The public register shall also contain the name and address of the competent authorities responsible for approval as referred to in Article 3, for quality assurance as referred to in Article 29, for investigations and penalties on statutory auditors and audit firms as referred to in Article 30, and for public oversight as referred to in Article 32. 4.
Member States shall ensure that the public register is fully operational by 29 June 2009.
Third-country auditors registered in accordance with Article 45 shall be clearly indicated in the register as such and not as statutory auditors.
Article 17 Registration of audit firms 1.
Third-country audit entities registered in accordance with Article 45 shall be clearly indicated in the register as such and not as audit firms.
Article 18 Updating of registration information Member States shall ensure that statutory auditors and audit firms notify the competent authorities in charge of the public register without undue delay of any change of information contained in the public register.
Article 19 Responsibility for registration information The information provided to the relevant competent authorities in accordance with Articles 16, 17 and 18 shall be signed by the statutory auditor or audit firm.
Article 20 Language 1.
CHAPTER IV PROFESSIONAL ETHICS, INDEPENDENCE, OBJECTIVITY, CONFIDENTIALITY AND PROFESSIONAL SECRECY Article 21 Professional ethics 1.
In order to ensure confidence in the audit function and to ensure uniform application of paragraph 1 of this Article, the Commission may, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 48(2), adopt principle-based implementing measures governing professional ethics.
Article 22 Independence and objectivity 1.
In order to ensure confidence in the audit function and to ensure uniform application of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article, the Commission may, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 48(2), adopt principle-based implementing measures concerning: (a) the threats and safeguards referred to in paragraph 2; (b) the situations in which the significance of the threats, as referred to in paragraph 2, is such that the independence of the statutory auditor or audit firm is compromised; (c) the cases of self-review and self-interest referred to in the second subparagraph of paragraph 2, in which statutory audits may or may not be carried out.
Article 23 Confidentiality and professional secrecy 1.
Where a statutory auditor or audit firm is replaced by another statutory auditor or audit firm, the former statutory auditor or audit firm shall provide the incoming statutory auditor or audit firm with access to all relevant information concerning the audited entity. 4.
A statutory auditor or audit firm who has ceased to be engaged in a particular audit assignment and a former statutory auditor or audit firm shall remain subject to the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 with respect to that audit assignment.
Article 24 Independence and objectivity of the statutory auditors carrying out the statutory audit on behalf of audit firms Member States shall ensure that the owners or shareholders of an audit firm as well as the members of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies of such a firm, or of an affiliated firm, do not intervene in the execution of a statutory audit in any way which jeopardises the independence and objectivity of the statutory auditor who carries out the statutory audit on behalf of the audit firm.
Article 25 Audit fees Member States shall ensure that adequate rules are in place which provide that fees for statutory audits: (a) are not influenced or determined by the provision of additional services to the audited entity; (b) cannot be based on any form of contingency.
CHAPTER V AUDITING STANDARDS AND AUDIT REPORTING Article 26 Auditing standards 1.
Member States shall require statutory auditors and audit firms to carry out statutory audits in compliance with international auditing standards adopted by the Commission in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 48(2).
The Commission may decide, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 48(2), on the applicability of international auditing standards within the Community.
Member States may impose audit procedures or requirements in addition to — or, in exceptional cases, by carving out parts of — the international auditing standards only if these stem from specific national legal requirements relating to the scope of statutory audits.
Member States may impose additional requirements relating to the statutory audits of annual and consolidated accounts for a period expiring on 29 June 2010.
Article 27 Statutory audits of consolidated accounts Member States shall ensure that in the case of a statutory audit of the consolidated accounts of a group of undertakings: (a) the group auditor bears the full responsibility for the audit report in relation with the consolidated accounts; (b) the group auditor carries out a review and maintains documentation of his or her review of the audit work performed by third-country auditor(s), statutory auditor(s), third-country audit entity(ies) or audit firm(s) for the purpose of the group audit.
If legal or other impediments prevent audit working papers from being passed from a third country to the group auditor, the documentation retained by the group auditor shall include evidence that he or she has undertaken the appropriate procedures in order to gain access to the audit documentation, and in the case of impediments other than legal ones arising from country legislation, evidence supporting such an impediment.
Article 28 Audit reporting 1.
Notwithstanding Article 51a(1) of Directive 78/660/EEC, if the Commission has not adopted a common standard for audit reports in accordance with Article 26(1) of this Directive, it may, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 48(2) of this Directive, adopt a common standard for audit reports for annual or consolidated accounts which have been prepared in accordance with approved international accounting standards, in order to enhance public confidence in the audit function.
CHAPTER VI QUALITY ASSURANCE Article 29 Quality assurance systems 1.
Each Member State shall ensure that all statutory auditors and audit firms are subject to a system of quality assurance which meets at least the following criteria: (a) the quality assurance system shall be organised in such a manner that it is independent of the reviewed statutory auditors and audit firms and subject to public oversight as provided for in Chapter VIII; (b) the funding for the quality assurance system shall be secure and free from any possible undue influence by statutory auditors or audit firms; (c) the quality assurance system shall have adequate resources; (d) the persons who carry out quality assurance reviews shall have appropriate professional education and relevant experience in statutory audit and financial reporting combined with specific training on quality assurance reviews; (e) the selection of reviewers for specific quality assurance review assignments shall be effected in accordance with an objective procedure designed to ensure that there are no conflicts of interest between the reviewers and the statutory auditor or audit firm under review; (f) the scope of the quality assurance review, supported by adequate testing of selected audit files, shall include an assessment of compliance with applicable auditing standards and independence requirements, of the quantity and quality of resources spent, of the audit fees charged and of the internal quality control system of the audit firm; (g) the quality assurance review shall be the subject of a report which shall contain the main conclusions of the quality assurance review; (h) quality assurance reviews shall take place at least every six years; (i) the overall results of the quality assurance system shall be published annually; (j) recommendations of quality reviews shall be followed up by the statutory auditor or audit firm within a reasonable period.
If the recommendations referred to in point (j) are not followed up, the statutory auditor or audit firm shall, if applicable, be subject to the system of disciplinary actions or penalties referred to in Article 30. 2.
The Commission may, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 48(2), adopt implementing measures in order to enhance public confidence in the audit function and to ensure uniform application of points (a), (b) and (e) to (j) of paragraph 1.
CHAPTER VII INVESTIGATIONS AND PENALTIES Article 30 Systems of investigations and penalties 1.
Without prejudice to Member States' civil liability regimes, Member States shall provide for effective, proportionate and dissuasive penalties in respect of statutory auditors and audit firms, where statutory audits are not carried out in conformity with the provisions adopted in the implementation of this Directive. 3.
CHAPTER VIII PUBLIC OVERSIGHT AND REGULATORY ARRANGEMENTS BETWEEN MEMBER STATES Article 32 Principles of public oversight 1.
Member States shall organise an effective system of public oversight for statutory auditors and audit firms based on the principles set out in paragraphs 2 to 7. 2.
The system of public oversight shall have the ultimate responsibility for the oversight of: (a) the approval and registration of statutory auditors and audit firms; (b) the adoption of standards on professional ethics, internal quality control of audit firms and auditing, and (c) continuing education, quality assurance and investigative and disciplinary systems. 5.
Article 34 Mutual recognition of regulatory arrangements between Member States 1.
Article 35 Designation of competent authorities 1.
Paragraph 2 shall not prevent competent authorities from exchanging confidential information.
Information thus exchanged shall be covered by the obligation of professional secrecy, to which persons employed or formerly employed by competent authorities are subject. 4.
Without prejudice to the obligations to which they are subject in judicial proceedings, competent authorities which receive information pursuant to paragraph 1 may use it only for the exercise of their functions within the scope of this Directive and in the context of administrative or judicial proceedings specifically related to the exercise of those functions. 5.
Where a competent authority concludes that activities contrary to the provisions of this Directive are being or have been carried out on the territory of another Member State, it shall notify the competent authority of the other Member State of that conclusion in as specific a manner as possible.
The competent authorities may refuse to act on a request for an investigation to be carried out as provided for in the first subparagraph, or on a request for its personnel to be accompanied by personnel of a competent authority of another Member State as provided for in the second subparagraph, where: (a) such an investigation might adversely affect the sovereignty, security or public order of the requested Member State; or (b) judicial proceedings have already been initiated in respect of the same actions and against the same persons before the authorities of the requested Member State; or (c) final judgment has already been passed in respect of the same actions on such persons by the competent authorities of the requested Member State. 7.
In accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 48(2) the Commission may adopt implementing measures in order to facilitate cooperation between competent authorities on the procedures for the exchange of information and modalities for cross-border investigations provided for in paragraphs 2 to 4 of this Article.
CHAPTER IX APPOINTMENT AND DISMISSAL Article 37 Appointment of statutory auditors or audit firms 1.
The statutory auditor or audit firm shall be appointed by the general meeting of shareholders or members of the audited entity. 2.
CHAPTER X SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR THE STATUTORY AUDITS OF PUBLIC-INTEREST ENTITIES Article 39 Application to non-listed public-interest entities Member States may exempt public-interest entities which have not issued transferable securities admitted to trading on a regulated market within the meaning of point 14 of Article 4(1) of Directive 2004/39/EC and their statutory auditor(s) or audit firm(s) from one or more of the requirements in this Chapter.
Article 40 Transparency report 1.
Article 41 Audit committee 1.
Member States may allow or decide that the provisions laid down in paragraphs 1 to 4 shall not apply to any public-interest entity that has a body performing equivalent functions to an audit committee, established and functioning according to provisions in place in the Member State in which the entity to be audited is registered.
Member States may exempt from the obligation to have an audit committee: (a) any public-interest entity which is a subsidiary undertaking within the meaning of Article 1 of Directive 83/349/EEC if the entity complies with the requirements in paragraphs 1 to 4 of this Article at group level; (b) any public-interest entity which is a collective investment undertaking as defined in Article 1(2) of Directive 85/611/EEC.
Article 42 Independence 1.
In addition to the provisions laid down in Articles 22 and 24, Member States shall ensure that statutory auditors or audit firms that carry out the statutory audit of a public-interest entity: (a) confirm annually in writing to the audit committee their independence from the audited public-interest entity; (b) disclose annually to the audit committee any additional services provided to the audited entity; and (c) discuss with the audit committee the threats to their independence and the safeguards applied to mitigate those threats as documented by them pursuant to Article 22(3). 2.
Member States shall ensure that the key audit partner(s) responsible for carrying out a statutory audit rotate(s) from the audit engagement within a maximum period of seven years from the date of appointment and is/are allowed to participate in the audit of the audited entity again after a period of at least two years. 3.
Article 43 Quality assurance The quality assurance review referred to in Article 29 shall be carried out at least every three years for statutory auditors or audit firms that carry out statutory audits of public-interest entities.
CHAPTER XI INTERNATIONAL ASPECTS Article 44 Approval of auditors from third countries 1.
Subject to reciprocity, the competent authorities of a Member State may approve a third-country auditor as statutory auditor if that person has furnished proof that he or she complies with requirements equivalent to those laid down in Articles 4 and 6 to 13. 2.
Article 45 Registration and oversight of third-country auditors and audit entities 1.
The competent authorities of a Member State shall, in accordance with Articles 15 to 17, register every third-country auditor and audit entity that provides an audit report concerning the annual or consolidated accounts of a company incorporated outwith the Community whose transferable securities are admitted to trading on a regulated market of that Member State within the meaning of point 14 of Article 4(1) of Directive 2004/39/EC, except when the company is an issuer exclusively of debt securities admitted to trading on a regulated market in a Member State within the meaning of Article 2(1)(b) of Directive 2004/109/EC [22], the denomination per unit of which is at least EUR 50000 or, in case of debt securities denominated in another currency, equivalent, at the date of issue, to at least EUR 50000. 2.
Articles 18 and 19 shall apply. 3.
Without prejudice to Article 46, audit reports concerning annual accounts or consolidated accounts referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article issued by third-country auditors or audit entities that are not registered in the Member State shall have no legal effect in that Member State. 5.
A Member State may register a third-country audit entity only if: (a) it meets requirements which are equivalent to those laid down in Article 3(3); (b) the majority of the members of the administrative or management body of the third-country audit entity meet requirements which are equivalent to those laid down in Articles 4 to 10; (c) the third-country auditor carrying out the audit on behalf of the third-country audit entity meets requirements which are equivalent to those laid down in Articles 4 to 10; (d) the audits of the annual or consolidated accounts referred to in paragraph 1 are carried out in accordance with international auditing standards as referred to in Article 26, as well as the requirements laid down in Articles 22, 24 and 25, or with equivalent standards and requirements; (e) it publishes on its website an annual transparency report which includes the information referred to in Article 40 or it complies with equivalent disclosure requirements. 6.
Article 46 Derogation in the case of equivalence 1.
Member States may disapply or modify the requirements in Article 45(1) and (3) on the basis of reciprocity only if the third-country auditors or audit entities are subject to systems of public oversight, quality assurance and investigations and penalties in the third country that meet requirements equivalent to those of Articles 29, 30 and 32. 2.
Member States may assess the equivalence referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article or rely on the assessments carried out by other Member States as long as the Commission has not taken any decision.
Member States shall communicate to the Commission: (a) their assessments of the equivalence referred to in paragraph 2; and (b) the main elements of their cooperative arrangements with third-country systems of public oversight, quality assurance and investigations and penalties, on the basis of paragraph 1.
Article 47 Cooperation with competent authorities from third countries 1.
Member States may allow the transfer to the competent authorities of a third country of audit working papers or other documents held by statutory auditors or audit firms approved by them, provided that: (a) those audit working papers or other documents relate to audits of companies which have issued securities in that third country or which form part of a group issuing statutory consolidated accounts in that third country; (b) the transfer takes place via the home competent authorities to the competent authorities of that third country and at their request; (c) the competent authorities of the third country concerned meet requirements which have been declared adequate in accordance with paragraph 3; (d) there are working arrangements on the basis of reciprocity agreed between the competent authorities concerned; (e) the transfer of personal data to the third country is in accordance with Chapter IV of Directive 95/46/EC. 2.
The working arrangements referred to in paragraph 1(d) shall ensure that: (a) justification as to the purpose of the request for audit working papers and other documents is provided by the competent authorities; (b) the persons employed or formerly employed by the competent authorities of the third country that receive the information are subject to obligations of professional secrecy; (c) the competent authorities of the third country may use audit working papers and other documents only for the exercise of their functions of public oversight, quality assurance and investigations that meet requirements equivalent to those of Articles 29, 30 and 32; (d) the request from a competent authority of a third country for audit working papers or other documents held by a statutory auditor or audit firm can be refused: - where the provision of those working papers or documents would adversely affect the sovereignty, security or public order of the Community or of the requested Member State, or - where judicial proceedings have already been initiated in respect of the same actions and against the same persons before the authorities of the requested Member State. 3.
The adequacy referred to in paragraph 1(c) shall be decided upon by the Commission in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 48(2) in order to facilitate cooperation between competent authorities.
The assessment of adequacy shall be carried out in cooperation with Member States and be based on the requirements of Article 36 or essentially equivalent functional results.
In exceptional cases and by way of derogation from paragraph 1, Member States may allow statutory auditors and audit firms approved by them to transfer audit working papers and other documents directly to the competent authorities of a third country, provided that: (a) investigations have been initiated by the competent authorities in that third country; (b) the transfer does not conflict with the obligations with which statutory auditors and audit firms are required to comply in relation to the transfer of audit working papers and other documents to their home competent authority; (c) there are working arrangements with the competent authorities of that third country that allow the competent authorities in the Member State reciprocal direct access to audit working papers and other documents of that third-country's audit entities; (d) the requesting competent authority of the third country informs in advance the home competent authority of the statutory auditor or audit firm of each direct request for information, indicating the reasons therefor; (e) the conditions referred to in paragraph 2 are respected. 5.
The Commission may, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 48(2), specify the exceptional cases referred to in paragraph 4 of this Article in order to facilitate cooperation between competent authorities and to ensure the uniform application of paragraph 4 of this Article. 6.
Member States shall communicate to the Commission the working arrangements referred to in paragraphs 1 and 4.
CHAPTER XII TRANSITIONAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS Article 48 Committee procedure 1.
The period laid down in Article 5(6) of Decision 1999/468/EC shall be set at three months. 3.
The Committee shall adopt its Rules of Procedure. 4.
Without prejudice to the implementing measures already adopted, and except for the provisions laid down in Article 26, upon expiry of a two-year period following the adoption of this Directive and on 1 April 2008 at the latest, the application of its provisions requiring the adoption of technical rules, amendments and decisions in accordance with paragraph 2 shall be suspended.
Acting on a proposal from the Commission, the European Parliament and the Council may renew the provisions concerned in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 251 of the Treaty and to that end they shall review them prior to the expiry of the period or date referred to above.
Article 49 Amendment of Directive 78/660/EEC and Directive 83/349/EEC 1.
Directive 78/660/EEC is hereby amended as follows: (a) in Article 43(1) the following point shall be added: (15) %quot%separately, the total fees for the financial year charged by the statutory auditor or audit firm for the statutory audit of annual accounts, the total fees charged for other assurance services, the total fees charged for tax advisory services and the total fees charged for other non-audit services.
The Member States may permit the companies referred to in Article 27 to omit disclosure of the information specified in Article 43(1)(8).
Article 51 Transitional provision Statutory auditors or audit firms that are approved by the competent authorities of the Member States in accordance with Directive 84/253/EEC before the entry into force of the provisions referred to in Article 53(1) shall be considered as having been approved in accordance with this Directive.
Article 52 Minimum harmonisation Member States requiring statutory audit may impose more stringent requirements, unless otherwise provided for by this Directive.
Article 54 Entry into force This Directive shall enter into force on the 20th day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Article 55 Addressees This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Strasbourg, 17 May 2006.
For the European Parliament The President J.
Borrell Fontelles For the Council The President H.
Winkler [1] OJ C 157, 28.6.2005, p. 115. [2] Opinion of the European Parliament of 28 September 2005 (not yet published in the Official Journal) and Council Decision of 25 April 2006. [3] OJ L 222, 14.8.1978, p. 11.
Directive as last amended by Directive 2003/51/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 178, 17.7.2003, p. 16). [4] OJ L 193, 18.7.1983, p. 1.
Directive as last amended by Directive 2003/51/EC. [5] OJ L 372, 31.12.1986, p. 1.
Directive as last amended by Directive 2003/51/EC. [6] OJ L 374, 31.12.1991, p. 7.
Directive as amended by Directive 2003/51/EC. [7] OJ L 126, 12.5.1984, p. 20. [8] OJ C 143, 8.5.1998, p. 12. [9] OJ L 91, 31.3.2001, p. 91. [10] OJ L 191, 19.7.2002, p. 22. [11] OJ L 145, 30.4.2004, p. 1. [12] OJ L 184, 17.7.1999, p. 23. [13] OJ L 52, 25.2.2005, p. 51. [14] Council Directive 85/611/EEC of 20 December 1985 on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities (UCITS) (OJ L 375, 31.12.1985, p. 3).
Directive as last amended by Directive 2005/1/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 79, 24.3.2005, p. 9). [15] OJ L 281, 23.11.1995, p. 31.
Directive as amended by Regulation (EC) No 1882/2003 (OJ L 284, 31.10.2003, p. 1). [16] OJ L 126, 26.5.2000, p. 1.
Directive as last amended by Commission Directive 2006/29/EC (OJ L 70, 9.3.2006, p. 50). [17] OJ L 207, 18.8.2003, p. 1. [18] OJ L 19, 24.1.1989, p. 16.
Directive as amended by Directive 2001/19/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 206, 31.7.2001, p. 1). [19] OJ L 13, 19.1.2000, p. 12. [20] Directive 2003/71/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 November 2003 on the prospectus to be published when securities are offered to the public or admitted to trading (OJ L 345, 31.12.2003, p. 64). [21] OJ L 149, 30.4.2004, p. 1. [22] Directive 2004/109/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 December 2004 on the harmonisation of transparency requirements in relation to information about issuers whose securities are admitted to trading on a regulated market (OJ L 390, 31.12.2004, p. 38). [23] OJ L 157, 9.6.2006, p. 87. --------------------------------------------------
