Commission Regulation (EC, Euratom) No%nbsp%1248/2006 of 7 August 2006 amending Regulation (EC, Euratom) No%nbsp%2342/2002 laying down detailed rules for the implementation of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No%nbsp%1605/2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities Commission Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1248/2006 of 7 August 2006 amending Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2342/2002 laying down detailed rules for the implementation of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities THE COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Atomic Energy Community, Having regard to Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities [1], and in particular Article 183 thereof, Having consulted the European Parliament, the Council, the Court of Justice of the European Communities, the Court of Auditors, the European Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions, the Ombudsman and the European Data Protection Supervisor, Whereas: (1) The obligation for the Commission to inform the budgetary authority by 15 April of the cancellation of carried over appropriations which have not been committed by 31 March has proven to be too strict and it should therefore be extended by two weeks to 30 April. (2) It should be specified that where the system of provisional twelfths is to be applied, the total allotted appropriations of the previous financial year are to be understood as referring to appropriations for the financial year after adjustment for any transfers made during that financial year. (3) It should be made clear that the rules on the rate of conversion between the euro and another currency set out in Articles 7 and 8 of Commission Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2342/2002 [2] apply only to conversions carried out by authorising officers and not to those carried out by contractors or beneficiaries, on the basis of the specific rules agreed in contracts or grant agreements.
In that case, the authorising officer responsible, in accordance with his risk assessment, should carry out appropriate ex post verification. (6) It is appropriate to include in the report on negotiated procedures only the cases of the use of negotiated procedures which constitute exceptions to the normal procurement procedures. (7) Following the introduction of accrual accounting on 1 January 2005, and the availability of accounting data at any moment in the informatics system, it is more logical and quicker to draw up the trial balance on the day on which the accounting officer terminates his duty.
Moreover, it should be made clear that the work programme referred to in Article 110 of Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002, hereinafter "the Financial Regulation", may constitute a financing decision provided that it contains a sufficiently detailed framework. (16) Where a global budgetary commitment is made, any authorising officer — not only the authorising officer by delegation — may be responsible for the legal commitments implementing the global commitment. (17) The payment time-limits for contracts and grant agreements which depend on the approval of a report or certificate should be revised in order to make certain that payments are made on the basis of an approved report or certificate.
Moreover, the time-limit for approval of a report related to a grant agreement involving actions which are particularly complex to evaluate should be brought into line with the current time-limit for complex service contracts. (18) Without modifying the existing time-limits or affecting the beneficiaries’ rights, the authorising officer responsible should also, for simplification reasons, be able to decide that approval of the report or certificate and payment can be made within a single time-limit. (19) The thresholds for low-value contracts, fixed in 1994, should be updated and raised from EUR 50000 to EUR 60000 and from EUR 13800 to EUR 25000 respectively.
The evaluation committee or the contracting authority should have the option of asking candidates or tenderers to supply additional documents or clarify information, as provided for in the case of contracts awarded by the institutions on their own account. (23) In external actions, the legal framework for the procurement should also be simplified as regards the publication of the pre-information notice for international calls for tenders and the requirement for a performance guarantee.
The pre-information notice should be published as early as possible and not necessarily before 31 January.
Moreover, the performance guarantee should be required only in the event of procurement with a high value and the authorising officer responsible should have the option of waiving the requirement for a guarantee in the case of pre-financing to a public body, depending on his risk assessment. (24) With regard to the award of grants, in order to reduce the administrative burden, it should be accepted that the de jure or de facto monopoly of the beneficiary can be substantiated in the award decision. (25) The requirement to attach an external audit to the application should apply only to applications for grants with a value equal to or more than EUR 500000 for actions and to operating grants with a value equal to or more than EUR 100000. (26) Co-financing in kind by beneficiaries should be made easier, if appropriate or necessary, and the notion of bodies which pursue an aim of European general interest and which may receive operating grants should include European bodies involved in promoting citizenship or innovation. (27) Applicants should be informed as soon as possible of the rejection of their application. (28) In the case of operating grants to bodies which pursue an aim of general European interest, the implementation of the non-profit rule should be limited to the percentage of co-financing corresponding to the Community’s contribution to the operating budget in order to take account of the rights of the other public contributors which are also required to recover the percentage of annual profit corresponding to their contribution.
For the purposes of the accounts provided for in Articles 132 to 137 of the Financial Regulation and subject to Article 213 of this Regulation, conversion between the euro and another currency shall be made using the monthly accounting exchange rate of the euro.
Article 8 Rate to be used for conversion between the euro and other currencies(Article 16 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
For the regularisation of imprest accounts in national currencies, as referred to in Article 16 of the Financial Regulation, the rate to be used for the conversion between the euro and other currencies shall be that of the month of the expenditure from the imprest account concerned. 4.
For the reimbursement of flatrate expenditure, or expenditure arising from the Staff Regulations of Officials and the Conditions of Employment of Other Servants of the European Communities (hereinafter: Staff Regulations) which is fixed at a ceiling, and which is paid in a currency other than the euro, the rate to be used shall be that which is in force when the entitlement arises." 4.
All programmes or activities, including pilot projects and preparatory actions, where the resources mobilised exceed EUR 5000000 shall be the subject of an interim and/or ex post evaluation of the human and financial resources allocated and the results obtained in order to verify that they were consistent with the objectives set, as follows: (a) the results obtained in carrying out a multiannual programme shall be periodically evaluated in accordance with a timetable which enables the findings of that evaluation to be taken into account for any decision on the renewal, modification or suspension of the programme; (b) activities financed on an annual basis shall have their results evaluated at least every six years.
In the case referred to in the second subparagraph, the authorising officer responsible shall, depending on his risk assessment, carry out an appropriate ex post verification, in accordance with paragraph 4." (b) Paragraph 5 is replaced by the following: "5.
Where the debtor has a claim on the Communities that is certain, of a fixed amount and due, relating to a sum established by a payment order, the accounting officer shall, once the deadline referred to in Article 78(3)(b) has passed, recover established amounts receivable by offsetting.
In exceptional circumstances, where it is necessary to safeguard the financial interests of the Communities, when the accounting officer has justified reasons for believing that the amount due to the Communities would be lost, the accounting officer shall recover by offsetting before the deadline referred to in Article 78(3)(b). 2.
It shall cover the claim as to principal and the interest due as specified in Article 86(5). 2.
In the event of a financial guarantee, the latter shall be enforced or released." 22.
Without prejudice to any specific provisions deriving from the application of sector-specific regulations, any amount receivable not repaid on the deadline referred to in Article 78(3)(b) shall bear interest in accordance with paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Article. 2.
The interest rate for amounts receivable not repaid on the deadline referred to in Article 78(3)(b) shall be the rate applied by the European Central Bank to its principal refinancing operations, as published in the C series of the Official Journal of the European Union, in force on the first calendar day of the month in which the deadline falls, increased by: (a) seven percentage points where the obligating event is a public supply and service contract referred to in Title V; (b) three and a half percentage points in all other cases. 3.
Interest shall be calculated from the calendar day following the deadline referred to in Article 78(3)(b) and specified in the debit note up to the calendar day on which the debt is repaid in full." (b) Paragraph 5 is replaced by the following: "5.
In the case of fines, where the debtor provides a financial guarantee which is accepted by the accounting officer in lieu of a provisional payment, the interest rate applicable from the deadline referred to in Article 78(3)(b) shall be the rate referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article increased by only one and a half percentage points." 23.
For grants, the decision adopting the annual work programme referred to in Article 110 of the Financial Regulation shall be considered to be the financing decision within the meaning of Article 75 of the Financial Regulation, provided that it constitutes a sufficiently detailed framework.
In a computerised system, "passed for payment" shall take the form of an electronically secured validation by the authorising officer responsible or by a technically competent member of staff, empowered by the authorising officer responsible." 27.
For contracts and grant agreements under which payment depends on the approval of a report or a certificate, the time-limit for the purposes of the payment periods referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not begin to run until the report or certificate in question has been approved.
The authorising officer responsible shall inform the beneficiary by means of a formal document of any suspension of the period allowed for approval of the report or certificate.
Decisions imposing disciplinary measures or financial penalties shall be notified to the interested party and communicated, for information purposes, to the other institutions and the Court of Auditors." 29.
Contracts with a value less than or equal to EUR 3500 may be awarded on the basis of a single tender. 4.
Candidates and tenderers shall provide a declaration on their honour, duly signed and dated, stating that they are not in one of the situations referred to in Article 93 or 94 of the Financial Regulation.
The tenderer to whom the contract is to be awarded shall provide, within a time-limit defined by the contracting authority and preceding the signature of the contract, the evidence referred to in paragraph 3, confirming the declaration referred to in paragraph 1 in the following cases: (a) for contracts awarded by the institutions on their own account, with a value equal to or greater than the thresholds referred to in Article 158; (b) for contracts in the field of external actions with a value equal to or greater than the thresholds laid down in Article 241(1)(a), Article 243(1)(a), or Article 245(1)(a).
For contracts with a value less than the thresholds referred to in points (a) and (b), the contracting authority may, where it has doubts as to whether the tenderer to whom the contract is to be awarded is in one of the situations of exclusion, require him to provide the evidence referred to in paragraph 3. 3.
Where the document or certificate referred to in the first subparagraph is not issued in the country concerned and for the other cases of exclusion referred to in Article 93 of the Financial Regulation, it may be replaced by a sworn or, failing that, a solemn statement made by the interested party before a judicial or administrative authority, a notary or a qualified professional body in his country of origin or provenance. 4.
Depending on the national legislation of the country in which the candidate or tenderer is established, the documents referred to in paragraphs 1 and 3 shall relate to legal persons and/or natural persons including, where considered necessary by the contracting authority, company directors or any person with powers of representation, decision-making or control in relation to the candidate or tenderer. 5.
The contracting authority may waive the obligation of a candidate or tenderer to submit the documentary evidence referred to in paragraph 3 if such evidence has already been submitted to it for the purposes of another procurement procedure and provided that the documents are not more than one year old starting from their issuing date and that they are still valid.
In such a case, the candidate or tenderer shall declare on his honour that the documentary evidence has already been provided in a previous procurement procedure and confirm that no changes in his situation have occurred." 37.
The grant agreement may lay down the arrangements and time-limits for suspension in accordance with Article 183." 47.
Where a single beneficiary is awarded several grants in a financial year, the threshold of EUR 25000 shall apply to the total of those grants." 50.
The supporting documents may consist in particular in the profit and loss account and the balance sheet for the last financial year for which the accounts were closed." (b) Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: (i) The first subparagraph is replaced by the following: "Where the application concerns grants for an action for which the amount exceeds EUR 500000 or operating grants which exceed EUR 100000, an audit report produced by an approved external auditor shall be submitted.
Where the consumption of the previous pre-financing is less than 70 %, the amount of the new pre-financing payment shall be reduced by the unused amounts of the previous pre-financing payment.
The statement of the beneficiary's outlay shall be produced in support of any request for a new payment." (b) Paragraph 2 is amended as follows: (i) The first subparagraph is replaced by the following: "A certificate on the financial statements and underlying accounts, produced by an approved auditor, or, in the case of public bodies, by a competent and independent public officer, may be demanded by the authorising officer responsible in support of any payment on the basis of his risk assessment.
However, for grants with a value of less than or equal to EUR 10000, the authorising officer responsible may require the beneficiary to lodge a guarantee in advance only in duly substantiated cases.
Article 241 is amended as follows: (a) Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: (i) In the first subparagraph, point (a) is replaced by the following: "(a) for contracts with a value of EUR 200000 or more: an international restricted invitation to tender within the meaning of Article 122(2) and point (a) of Article 240(2)." (ii) The second subparagraph is replaced by the following: "Contracts with a value less than or equal to EUR 5000 may be awarded on the basis of a single tender." (b) In paragraph 2, the following subparagraph is added: "If the number of candidates satisfying the selection criteria or the minimum capacity levels is less than the minimum number, the contracting authority may invite to submit a tender only those candidates who satisfy the criteria to submit a tender." (c) Paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: "3.
A performance guarantee may be required by the contracting authority for an amount set in the tender file and corresponding to between 5 and 10 % of the total value of the contract.
However, a performance guarantee shall be required where the following thresholds are exceeded: (i) EUR 345000 for works contracts; (ii) EUR 150000 for supply contracts.
In Article 271, paragraphs 1 and 2 are replaced by the following: "1.
The thresholds and amounts laid down in Articles 54, 67, 119, 126, 128, 129, 130, 135, 151, 152, 164, 172, 173, 180, 181, 182, 226, 241, 243, 245 and 250 shall be updated every three years in line with movements in the consumer price index in the Community. 2.
Article 3 This Regulation shall enter into force on the third day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Done at Brussels, 7 August 2006.
For the Commission Dalia Grybauskaitė Member of the Commission [1] OJ L 248, 16.9.2002, p. 1. [2] OJ L 357, 31.12.2002, p. 1.
Regulation as amended by Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1261/2005 (OJ L 201, 2.8.2005, p. 3). [3] OJ L 134, 30.4.2004, p. 114.
Directive as last amended by Commission Regulation (EC) No 2083/2005 (OJ L 333, 20.12.2005, p. 28). [4] OJ L 37, 10.2.2005, p. 14. --------------------------------------------------
