This estimate, which shall include a draft establishment plan, shall be forwarded by the Management Board to the Commission by 31 March at the latest. 2.
On the basis of the estimate, the Commission shall enter in the preliminary draft general budget of the European Union the estimates it deems necessary for the establishment plan and the amount of the subsidy to be charged to the general budget, which it shall place before the budgetary authority in accordance with Article 272 of the Treaty. 4.
The budgetary authority shall adopt the establishment plan for the Centre. 5.
The Director shall implement the budget of the Centre. 2.
By 1 March at the latest following each financial year, the Centre's accounting officer shall communicate the provisional accounts to the Commission's accounting officer together with a report on the budgetary and financial management for that financial year.
The Commission's accounting officer shall consolidate the provisional accounts of the institutions and decentralised bodies in accordance with Article 128 of the general Financial Regulation. 3.
By 31 March at the latest following each financial year, the Commission's accounting officer shall forward the Centre's provisional accounts to the Court of Auditors, together with a report on the budgetary and financial management for that financial year.
On receipt of the Court of Auditors' observations on the Centre's provisional accounts, pursuant to Article 129 of the general Financial Regulation, the Director shall draw up the Centre's final accounts under his own responsibility and submit them to the Management Board for an opinion. 5.
The Director shall, by 1 July at the latest following each financial year, forward the final accounts to the European Parliament, the Council, the Commission and the Court of Auditors, together with the Management Board's opinion. 7.
The Director shall send the Court of Auditors a reply to its observations by 30 September at the latest.
He shall also send this reply to the Management Board. 9.
The Management Board shall adopt the annual report on the Centre's activities and prospects, and forward it by 15 June at the latest to the European Parliament, the Council, the Commission, the Economic and Social Committee and to the Court of Auditors. 2.
The Management Board shall adopt the practical arrangements for implementing Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 within six months of entry into force of Council Regulation (EC) No 1655/2003 of 18 June 2003 amending Regulation (EC) No 337/75 establishing a European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training and repealing Regulation (EEC) No 1416/76(11). 3.
Article 3 This Regulation shall enter into force on the first day of the month following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Done at Luxembourg, 18 June 2003.
