Any person may consult the catalogues. 2.
The conditions under which the provisions of paragraph 1 shall also apply to other component varieties may be determined in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 23(2).
In the meantime, in the case of cereals other than maize, Member States may themselves apply those provisions to other component varieties in respect of seed intended for certification in their territories.
A variety known in the Community shall be any variety which, at the time when the application for the acceptance of the variety to be assessed is duly made, is: - either listed in the common catalogue of varieties of agricultural plant species or the catalogue of varieties of vegetable species; or - without being listed in one of those catalogues, has been accepted or submitted fro acceptance in the Member State in question or in another Member State, either for certification and marketing, or for certification for other countries, unless the conditions are no longer fulfilled in all the Member States concerned before the decision on the application for acceptance of the variety to be assessed is taken. 2.
Article 6 Member States shall ensure that varieties coming from other Member States are subject to the same requirements, in particular as regards the acceptance procedure, as those which apply to domestic varieties.
For the purpose of applying Article 9, other available comparable varieties shall be included. 2.
Article 8 Member States shall require that when lodging an application for the acceptance of a variety, the applicant indicate whether acceptance has already been applied for in another Member State, which Member State was concerned and whether the application was granted.
Each Member State shall arrange for official publication of the catalogue of varieties accepted in its territory and of the name of the person or persons responsible for maintenance of the variety in its country.
Where, after acceptance of a variety, it is established that the condition concerning distinctness within the meaning of Article 5 was not fulfilled at the time of acceptance, acceptance shall be replaced by another decision or, where appropriate, a revocation, which conforms with this Directive.
Where, after acceptance of a variety, it is established that its name within the meaning of Article 9 was not acceptable when the variety was accepted, the name shall be adapted in such a way that it conforms with this Directive.
The detailed arrangements in accordance with which the previous name may be used as an additional name may be laid down in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 23(2). 4.
In accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 23(2) rules may be established for the application of paragraphs 1 and 2.
Member States may, in respect of their own territory, allow a period for the certification and marketing of seed or propagating material up to 30 June of the third year at the most after expiry of the acceptance.
Member States shall ensure that, with effect from the publication referred to in Article 17, seed of varieties accepted in accordance with this Directive or in accordance with principles corresponding to those of this Directive is not subject to any marketing restrictions relating to variety. 2.
Article 18 If it is established that the cultivation of a variety included in the common catalogue of varieties could in any Member State be harmful from the point of view of plant health to the cultivation of other varieties or species, or present a risk for the environment or for human health, that Member State may upon application, be authorised in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 23(2) or in Article 23(3) in the case of a genetically modified variety to prohibit the marketing of the seed or propagating material of that variety in all or part of its territory.
Article 19 Where a variety ceases to be accepted in the Member State which initially accepted it, one or more other Member States may continue to accept that variety provided that the requirements for acceptance continue to be met in their territory and that maintenance remains assured.
Specific conditions may be established in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 23(2) to take account of developments in relation to the conditions under which chemically treated seed may be marketed. 2.
Article 21 Specific conditions may be established in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 23(2) to take account of developments in the area of the conservation of genetic resources.
The period laid down in Article 4(3) of Decision 199/468/EC shall be set at one month. 3.
Where reference is made to this paragraph, Articles 5 and 7 of Decision 1999/468/EC shall apply.
The period laid down in Article 5(6) of Decision 1999/468/EC shall be set at one month. 4.
Article 24 Save as otherwise provided in Articles 16 and 18, this Directive shall be without prejudice to the provisions of national laws justified on grounds of the protection of health and life of humans, animals or plants or the protection of industrial or commercial property.
Article 25 The Member States shall communicate to the Commission the text of the main provisions of domestic law they adopt in the field covered by this Directive.
Article 27 This Directive shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Article 28 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Luxembourg, 13 June 2002.
