Similarly, it is appropriate to introduce provisions on family-related leave and, more particularly, the right to more flexible maternity leave, paternity leave, adoption and parental leave as well as leave in case of serious illness of a family member. (22) In the interest of guaranteeing that the purchasing power of Community officials develops in parallel with that of national civil servants in central government of the Member States, it is essential to preserve the principle of a multi-annual adjustment mechanism for pay, known as %quot%the Method%quot%, by extending its application until 31 December 2012 with a review after four years for consistency with budgetary discipline. (23) The advantages for officials of a multi-annual pay adjustment system should be balanced by the introduction of a special levy to reflect the costs of social policy, improved working conditions and the European Schools.
Article 2 This Regulation shall enter into force on 1 May 2004.
Cowen (1) OJ C 291 E, 26.11.2002, p. 33. (2) OJ C 62 E, 11.3.2004, p. 160. (3) Opinion of 18.2.2004 (not yet published in the Official Journal). (4) OJ C 75, 24.3.2004, p. 1. (5) OJ C 364, 18.12.2000, p. 1. (6) OJ L 56, 4.3.1968, p. 1. (7) OJ L 327, 16.12.2003, p. 3.
The impairment shall be determined according to the procedure set out in Article 33.
This provision shall not apply in disciplinary proceedings. 6.
Officials in active employment shall have access to measures of a social nature adopted by the institutions and to services provided by the social welfare bodies referred to in Article 9.
Former officials may have access to limited specific measures of a social nature. 2.
Appointment shall require at least: (a) in function group AST: (i) a level of post-secondary education attested by a diploma, or (ii) a level of secondary education attested by a diploma giving access to post-secondary education, and appropriate professional experience of at least three years, or (iii) where justified in the interests of the service, professional training or professional experience of an equivalent level. (b) in function group AD for grades 5 and 6: (i) a level of education which corresponds to completed university studies of at least three years attested by a diploma, or (ii) where justified in the interest of the service, professional training of an equivalent level. (c) in function group AD for grades 7 to 16: (i) a level of education which corresponds to completed university studies attested by a diploma when the normal period of university education is four years or more, or (ii) a level of education which corresponds to completed university studies attested by a diploma and appropriate professional experience of at least one year when the normal period of university education is at least three years, or (iii) where justified in the interests of the service, professional training of an equivalent level. 4.
The Council shall decide in accordance with Article 283 of the EC Treaty. 5.
The opinion of the Joint Advisory Committee on professional incompetence shall be sought for the application of Article 51.%quot%; 9) Article 10 is replaced by the following: %quot%Article 10 A Staff Regulations Committee shall be set up consisting of representatives of the institutions of the Communities and an equal number of representatives of their Staff Committees.
The Commission proposals referred to in Article 10 may be the subject of consultations by representative trade unions and staff associations.
The representative trade unions and staff associations which are signatories shall operate in each institution subject to the statutory powers of the staff committee.%quot%; 11) the following sentence is added to the first paragraph of Article 11: %quot%He shall carry out the duties assigned to him objectively, impartially and in keeping with his duty of loyalty to the Communities.%quot%; 12) the following Article is inserted after Article 11: %quot%Article 11a 1.
An official may neither keep nor acquire, directly or indirectly, in undertakings which are subject to the authority of the institution to which he belongs or which have dealings with that institution, any interest of such kind or magnitude as might impair his independence in the performance of his duties.%quot%; 13) Article 12 is replaced by the following: %quot%Article 12 An official shall refrain from any action or behaviour which might reflect adversely upon his position.%quot%; 14) the following Articles are inserted: %quot%Article 12a 1.
An official who has been the victim of psychological or sexual harassment shall not suffer any prejudicial effects on the part of the institution.
Permission shall be refused only if the activity or assignment in question is such as to interfere with the performance of the official's duties or is incompatible with the interests of the institution. 2.
Permission may be withdrawn if the activity or assignment no longer meets the conditions referred to in the last sentence of paragraph 1.%quot%; 15) In Article 13, in the second sentence, the words %quot%continue in his post, be transferred to another post or be required to resign%quot% are replaced by %quot%continue in his post or be transferred to another post.%quot%; 16) Article 14 is deleted; 17) Article 15 is replaced by the following: %quot%Article 15 1.
The Appointing Authority shall decide, in the light of the interests of the service, whether the official concerned: (a) should be required to apply for leave on personal grounds, or (b) should be granted annual leave, or (c) may be authorised to discharge his duties on a part-time basis, or (d) may continue to discharge his duties as before. 2.
If the official is required to take leave on personal grounds or is authorised to discharge his duties on a part-time basis, the period of such leave or part-time working shall correspond to the official's term of office.%quot%; 18) Article 16 is replaced by the following: %quot%Article 16 An official shall, after leaving the service, continue to be bound by the duty to behave with integrity and discretion as regards the acceptance of certain appointments or benefits.
Without prejudice to Articles 12 and 17, an official who intends to publish or cause to be published, whether alone or with others, any matter dealing with the work of the Communities shall inform the Appointing Authority in advance.
Any invention made by an official in the course of or in connection with the performance of his duties shall be the undisputed property of the Communities.
Where inventions are the subject of patents, the name of the inventor or inventors shall be stated. 3.
The institution may in appropriate cases award a bonus, the amount of which shall be determined by the institution, to an official who is the author of a patented invention.%quot%; 22) in Article 20 the following sentence is added: %quot%The official shall notify the Appointing Authority of his address and inform it immediately of any change of address.%quot%; 23) in Article 21 the third paragraph is deleted; 24) the following Article is inserted: %quot%Article 21a 1.
At the request of the official, the immediate superior shall be obliged to give such orders in writing.%quot%; 25) the following Articles are inserted: %quot%Article 22a 1.
Before filling a vacant post in an institution, the Appointing Authority shall first consider: (a) whether the post can be filled by: (i) transfer, or (ii) appointment in accordance with Article 45a, or (iii) promotion within the institution; (b) whether requests for transfer have been received from officials of the same grade in other institutions, and/or whether to hold a competition internal to the institution, which shall be open only to officials and temporary staff as defined in Article 2 of the Conditions of Employment of other servants of the European Communities; and then follow the procedure for competitions on the basis either of qualifications or of tests, or of both qualifications and tests.
A procedure other than the competition procedure may be adopted by the Appointing Authority for the recruitment of senior officials (Directors-General or their equivalent in grade AD 16 or AD 15 and Directors or their equivalent in grade AD 15 or AD 14) and, in exceptional cases, also for recruitment to posts which require special qualifications. 3.
These competitions will be open only to members of the temporary staff of that institution engaged in accordance with Article 2(c) of the Conditions of Employment of other Servants of the European Communities.
By derogation from paragraph (1)(a) of this Article, the Appointing Authority of the institution that engaged the temporary servant shall, before filling a vacant post in that institution, consider transfers of officials within the institution in parallel with successful candidates from these internal competitions. 4.
Once every five years the European Parliament shall organise an internal competition on the basis of qualifications and tests for each function group which shall be at grade AST 6-level or higher and at grade AD 9-level or higher, in accordance with the conditions set out in the second subparagraph of paragraph 3.%quot%; 34) Article 31 is replaced by the following: %quot%Article 31 1.
Without prejudice to Article 29(2), officials shall be recruited only at grades AST 1 to AST 4 or AD 5 to AD 8.
To address specific needs of the institutions, labour market conditions prevailing in the Community may also be taken into account when recruiting officials. 3.
Not withstanding paragraph (2), the institution may, where appropriate, authorise the organisation of a competition at grade AD 9, AD 10, AD 11 or, on an exceptional basis, at grade AD 12.
The total number of candidates appointed to vacant posts at these grades shall not exceed 20 % of the total number of appointments to the function group AD made per year in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 30.%quot%; 35) in Article 32, the second paragraph is replaced by:%quot%The Appointing Authority may allow additional seniority up to a maximum of 24 months to take account of his professional experience.
If, however, an official applies for such leave in order to be able: (i) to bring up a child considered as a dependant of the official within the meaning of Article 2(2) of Annex VII and who suffers from a serious mental or physical handicap recognised by the medical officer of the institution and who requires constant care or supervision; or (ii) to follow his spouse, the latter also being an official or other servant of the Communities required in the course of his duties to establish his habitual residence at such a distance from the place of employment of the applicant official that the establishment of their conjugal home in such a place would inconvenience the applicant official in the performance of his duties, the leave may be extended without limits, provided that, at the time of each extension, the conditions which warranted the grant of the leave continue to be fulfilled.%quot%; (b) in paragraph 3, second subparagraph, the first sentence is replaced by the following:%quot%However, an official who is not engaged in a gainful activity may, not later than one month following that in which the leave on personal grounds begins, apply to continue to be covered in accordance with those articles, provided that he bears half the cost of the contributions required to cover the risks referred to in Articles 72(1) and 73(1) for the first year of the leave on personal grounds and the full cost during the remainder of such leave.
Cover in accordance with Article 73 shall be available only if cover has been obtained in accordance with Article 72.
However, the allowance and the total remuneration last received, as referred to in the fourth subparagraph of this Article, shall be subject to the weighting referred to in the first subparagraph of Article 3(5) of Annex XI, at the rate fixed for the Member State where the recipient proves he has his residence, provided that Member State was the recipient's last place of employment.
In such cases, if the currency of the Member State is not the euro, this allowance is calculated on the basis of the exchange rates provided for in Article 63 of these Staff Regulations.%quot%; 42) a new Section and Articles are inserted in Chapter 2 of Title III as follows: %quot%Section 6 Parental or family leave Article 42a An official shall be entitled to up to six months of parental leave without basic salary for every child, to be taken during the first twelve years after the birth or adoption of the child.
Where parental leave is taken in the form of half-time leave, the maximum period provided for in the first paragraph shall be doubled.
During parental leave, the official shall be entitled to an allowance of EUR 798,77 per month or 50 % of such sum if on half-time leave but may not engage in any other gainful employment.
The full contribution to the social security scheme provided for in Articles 72 and 73 shall be borne by the institution and calculated on the basis of the basic salary of the official.
The allowance shall be EUR 1065,02 per month, or 50 % of such sum if the official is on half-time leave, for the single parents referred to in the first paragraph and during the first three months of parental leave where such leave is taken by the father during maternity leave or by either parent immediately after maternity leave or during or immediately after adoption leave.
The total period of such leave shall not exceed nine months over the official's entire career.
The second paragraph of Article 42a shall apply.%quot%; 43) Article 43 is replaced by the following: %quot%Article 43 The ability, efficiency and conduct in the service of each official shall be the subject of a periodical report made at least once every two years as provided for by each institution in accordance with Article 110.
This advancement shall lead to an increase in his basic monthly salary corresponding to the percentage between the first and the second step in each grade.
Officials shall be required to demonstrate before their first promotion after recruitment the ability to work in a third language among those referred to in Article 314 of the EC Treaty.
These rules shall require access to training for officials in a third language and lay down the detailed arrangements for the assessment of officials' ability to work in a third language, in accordance with Article 7(2)(d) of Annex III.
By way of derogation from Article 5 (3) (b) and (c), an official in function group AST may, from grade 5, be appointed to a post in function group AD, on condition that: (a) he has been selected in accordance with the procedure laid down in paragraph 2 of this Article to take part in a compulsory training programme as set out in point (b) of this paragraph, (b) he has completed a training programme defined by the Appointing Authority comprising a set of compulsory training modules, and (c) he is on the list drawn up by the Appointing Authority of candidates who have passed an oral and written examination demonstrating that he has successfully taken part in the training programme mentioned under point (b) of this paragraph.
The contents of this examination shall be determined in accordance with Article 7(2)(c) of Annex III. 2.
The Appointing Authority shall draw up a draft list of AST officials selected to take part in the aforesaid training programme on the basis of their periodical reports referred to in Article 43 and their level of education and training and taking account of the needs of the services.
Appointment to a post in function group AD shall not affect the grade and step occupied by the official at the moment of appointment. 4.
The number of appointments to posts in function group AD as laid down in paragraphs (1) to (3) of this Article shall not exceed 20 % of the total number of appointments made per year in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 30. 5.
The institutions shall adopt general provisions for giving effect to this Article in accordance with Article 110.
Article 46 An official appointed to a higher grade in accordance with Article 45 shall be placed in the initial step in that grade.
However, officials in grades AD 9 to AD 13 carrying out the duties of head of unit who are appointed to a higher grade in accordance with Article 45 shall be placed in the second step of the new grade.
Article 45, third, fourth and fifth paragraphs, of Annex VIII shall apply by analogy.%quot%; 49) The title of Section 4, %quot%Dismissal for incompetence%quot%, is replaced by %quot%Procedures for dealing with incompetence%quot%; 50) Article 51 is replaced by the following: %quot%Article 51 1.
Once these procedures have been exhausted, an official who, on the basis of consecutive periodical reports referred to in Article 43, still proves incompetent in the performance of his duties may be dismissed, downgraded or classified in a lower function group at the same grade or a lower grade. 2.
The proposal from the Appointing Authority shall be referred to the Joint Advisory Committee referred to in Article 9(6). 3.
An official dismissed for incompetence shall, for the period defined in paragraph 7, be entitled to a monthly dismissal allowance equal to the basic monthly salary of an official in the first step of grade 1.
The official shall also be entitled during the same period to the family allowances provided for in Article 67.
The household allowance shall be calculated on the basis of the basic monthly salary of an official in grade 1 in accordance with Article 1 of Annex VII.
The allowance shall not be paid if the official resigns after the start of the procedure referred to in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 or if he is entitled to the immediate payment of a full pension.
If he is entitled to unemployment benefit under a national unemployment scheme, the amount of that benefit shall be deducted from the above allowance. 7.
The period during which the payments referred to in paragraph 6 are to be made shall be: (a) three months where the official has completed less than five years' service at the date on which the dismissal decision is taken; (b) six months where the official has completed at least five years' service but less than ten; (c) nine months where the official has completed at least 10 years' service but less than 20; (d) 12 months where the official has completed over 20 years' service. 8.
Officials shall be entitled to reimbursement of reasonable expenses incurred on their initiative in the course of the proceedings, including fees payable to a defending adviser not belonging to the institution, where the proceedings provided for in this Article end without any decision being taken to dismiss, downgrade or classify the official in a lower function group.%quot%; 51) Article 52 is replaced by the following: %quot%Article 52 Without prejudice to the provisions of Article 50, an official shall be retired: (a) either automatically on the last day of the month in which he reaches the age of 65, or (b) at his own request on the last day of the month in respect of which the request was submitted where he is at least 63 years of age or where he is between 55 and 63 years of age and satisfies the requirements for immediate payment of a pension in accordance with Article 9 of Annex VIII.
However, on an exceptional basis, an official may at his own request and only in the case where the Appointing Authority considers it justified in the interest of the service, carry on working until the age of 67 in which case he shall be retired automatically on the last day of the month in which he reaches that age%quot%; 52) In Article 54, the words %quot%career bracket or the next higher bracket%quot% are replaced by %quot%grade or the next higher grade%quot%; 53) Article 55a is replaced by the following: %quot%Article 55a 1.
The Appointing Authority may grant such authorisation if this is compatible with the interests of the service. 2.
The official shall be entitled to authorisation in the following cases: (a) to care for a child under 9 years of age, (b) to care for a child aged between 9 and 12, if the reduction in working time is no more than 20 % of normal working time, (c) to care for a seriously ill or disabled spouse, relative in the ascending line, relative in the descending line, brother or sister, (d) to take part in further training, or (e) as of the age of 55 during the last five years before retirement.
Where part-time is requested in order to take part in further training, or as of the age of 55, the Appointing Authority may refuse authorisation or postpone its date of effect only in exceptional circumstances and for overriding service-related reasons.
Where such entitlement to authorisation is exercised to care for a seriously ill or disabled spouse, relative in the ascending line, relative in the descending line, brother or sister, or to take part in further training, the total of all such periods shall not exceed five years over the official's career. 3.
The rules governing part-time work and the procedure for granting authorisation are laid down in Annex IVa.%quot%; 54) the following Article is inserted: %quot%Article 55b An official may request authorisation to work half-time in the form of job-sharing in a post identified by the Appointing Authority as appropriate for that purpose.
The Council shall, on a proposal from the Commission presented after consulting the Staff Regulations Committee, determine the categories of beneficiaries, and the rates and conditions of such special allowances.%quot%; 57) Article 58 is replaced by the following: %quot%Article 58 Pregnant women shall, in addition to the leave provided for in Article 57, be entitled on production of a medical certificate to twenty weeks of leave.
Premature birth for the purposes of this provision is a birth taking place before the end of the 34th week of pregnancy.%quot%; 58) Article 59 is replaced by the following: %quot%1.
His absence shall be considered to be unjustified as from the thirteenth day of absence on account of sickness without a medical certificate. 3.
The Appointing Authority may refer to the Invalidity Committee the case of any official whose sick leave totals more than 12 months in any period of three years. 5.
In the latter case, the practitioner's fees shall be payable by the institution up to a maximum amount fixed for a period of no more than three years by the Appointing Authority after consulting the Staff Regulations Committee.%quot%; 59) Article 59a is replaced by the following: %quot%Article 59a The annual leave of an official who is authorised to work part time shall, for as long as he is so authorised, be reduced proportionally.%quot%; 60) in Article 66 the table is replaced by the following: %quot%%gt%TABLE%gt%%quot%; 61) Article 66a is replaced by the following: %quot%Article 66a 1.
The special levy shall be deducted monthly at source; the proceeds shall be entered as revenue in the general budget of the European Union.%quot%; 62) Article 68a is replaced by the following: %quot%Article 68a An official who is authorised to work part time shall be entitled to remuneration calculated as provided for in Annex IVa.%quot%; 63) Article 70 is replaced by the following: %quot%Article 70 In the event of an official's death, the surviving spouse or dependent children shall receive the deceased's full remuneration until the end of the third month after the month in which the death occurred.
In the event of the death of a person entitled to a pension or invalidity allowance, the above provisions shall apply in respect of the deceased's pension or allowance.%quot%; 64) Article 70a is deleted; 65) Article 72 is amended as follows: (a) in paragraph 1, the following subparagraphs are inserted after the first subparagraph:%quot%The unmarried partner of an official shall be treated as the spouse under the sickness insurance scheme, where the first three conditions in Article 1(2)(c) of Annex VII are met.
An official who has remained in the service of the Communities until the age of 63 years or who is in receipt of an invalidity allowance shall be entitled to the benefits provided for in paragraph 1 after he has left the service.
Those benefits shall also apply to the person entitled to survivor's pension following the death of an official who was in active employment or who remained in the service of the Communities until the age of 63 years, or the death of a person entitled to an invalidity allowance.
The following shall likewise be entitled to the benefits provided for in paragraph 1, on condition that they are not in gainful employment: (i) former officials entitled to retirement pensions who leave the service of the Communities before reaching the age of 63, (ii) persons entitled to a survivor's pension as a result of the death of a former official who left the service of the Communities before reaching the age of 63.
Article 52 shall apply by analogy to recipients of an invalidity allowance.
The invalidity allowance shall be equal to 70 % of the official's last basic salary.
The invalidity allowance shall be subject to contributions to the pension scheme, calculated on the basis of that allowance.
Where the invalidity arises from an accident in the course of or in connection with the performance of an official's duties, from an occupational disease, from a public-spirited act or from risking his life to save another human being, the invalidity allowance may not be less than 120 % of the minimum subsistence figure.
Where a surviving child has entitlement to more than one Community pension, he shall receive the pension providing the higher or highest amount.%quot%; 74) in Article 81, the first paragraph is replaced by the following:%quot%A person entitled to a retirement pension or to an invalidity allowance, or to a survivor's pension shall be entitled, under the conditions laid down in Annex VII, to the family allowances specified in Article 67; the household allowance shall be calculated by reference to the pension or the allowance of the recipient.
The scheme shall be kept in balance in accordance with the detailed rules set out in Annex XII. 2.
Each year the Commission shall present to the Council an updated version of the actuarial assessment, in accordance with Article 1(2) of Annex XII.
Where it is shown that there is a gap of at least 0,25 points between the rate of contribution currently applied and the rate required to maintain actuarial balance, the Council shall consider whether the rate should be adapted, in accordance with the arrangements laid down in Annex XII. 5.
For the purposes of paragraphs 3 and 4 of this Article, the Council shall act by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission as provided for in the first indent of Article 205(2) of the EC Treaty.
For the purposes of paragraph 3, the Commission's proposal shall be presented after consultation of the Staff Regulations Committee.%quot%; 79) In Article 85 the following paragraph is added:%quot%The request for recovery must be made no later than five years from the date on which the sum was paid.
Where the Appointing Authority is able to establish that the recipient deliberately misled the administration with a view to obtaining the sum concerned, the request for recovery shall not be invalidated even if this period has elapsed.%quot%; 80) In Article 85a(2), sixth indent, the words %quot%invalidity pensions%quot% are replaced by %quot%invalidity allowances%quot%; 81) Article 86(2) and (3) are replaced by the following: %quot%2.
Disciplinary rules, procedures and measures and the rules and procedures covering administrative investigations are laid down in Annex IX.%quot%; 82) Articles 87, 88 and 89 are deleted; 83) Article 90(3) is deleted; 84) the following Articles are inserted: %quot%Article 90a Any person to whom these Staff Regulations apply may submit to the Director of OLAF a request within the meaning of Article 90(1), asking the Director to take a decision relating to him in connection with investigations by OLAF.
Article 90b Any person to whom these Staff Regulations apply may submit to the European Data Protection Supervisor a request or a complaint within the meaning of Article 90(1) and (2), within his sphere of competence.
Article 94 By way of derogation from the second paragraph of Article 56a and the second paragraph of Article 56b, and only in exceptional cases because of the requirements of the service, safety regulations or national or international obligations, the Appointing Authority shall designate the officials covered by Article 92 who shall be entitled to benefit from the provisions of these Articles.%quot%; 87) Articles 95, 96, 97, 98, 99, 100, 101, 102, 106 and 107 are deleted; 88) the following Article is inserted: %quot%Article 107a Transitional provisions are set out in Annex XIII.%quot%; 89) Article 110 is replaced by the following: %quot%Article 110 1.
The general provisions for giving effect to these Staff Regulations shall be adopted by each institution after consulting its Staff Committee and the Staff Regulations Committee.
Agencies shall adopt the appropriate implementing rules for giving effect to these Staff Regulations, after consultation of the relevant Staff Committee and in agreement with the Commission. 2.
Agencies shall be jointly represented in these consultations in accordance with rules to be fixed by agreement between them.%quot%; 90) Annex I is replaced by the following: %quot%ANNEX I A.
The chairman shall be appointed by the Appointing Authority from a list of candidates drawn up in concertation with the Staff Committee.
When the case concerns an official in grade AD 14 or lower, the Joint Advisory Committee shall include two further members from the same function group and of the same grade as the official in question, designated in the same way as the permanent members.
The institutions shall, after consultation of the Staff Regulations Committee, entrust the European Communities Personnel Selection Office (hereinafter 'the Office') with responsibility for taking the necessary measures to ensure that uniform standards are applied in the selection procedures for officials of the Communities and in the assessment and in the examination procedures referred to in Articles 45 and 45a of the Staff Regulations. 2.
The Office's task shall be to: (a) organise, at the request of individual institutions, open competitions; (b) provide, at the request of individual institutions, technical support for internal competitions organised by them; (c) determine the contents of all examinations organised by the institutions in order to ensure that the requirements of Article 45a(1)(c) of the Staff Regulations are met in a harmonised and consistent manner; (d) assume general responsibility for the definition and organisation of the assessment of linguistic ability in order to ensure that the requirements of Article 45(2) of the Staff Regulations are met in a harmonised and consistent manner. 3.
The Office may, at the request of individual institutions, perform other tasks linked to the selection of officials. 4.
During the period of entitlement to the allowance, and for the first six months thereafter, the official referred to in Articles 41 and 50 of the Staff Regulations shall be entitled, in respect of himself and persons covered by his insurance, to benefits under the sickness insurance scheme provided for in Article 72 of the Staff Regulations, on condition that the official pays the appropriate contribution calculated by reference, as the case may be, either to his basic salary or to the percentage thereof specified in paragraph 1 of this Article and that he is not gainfully employed%quot%; 94) Annex IVa is replaced by the following: %quot%ANNEX IVa PART-TIME WORK Article 1 The request for authorisation to work part time shall be submitted by the official through the official's immediate superior at least two months before the requested date, except in duly justified urgent cases.
Authorisation may be granted for a minimum of one month and a maximum of three years, without prejudice to the cases referred to in Article 15 and Article 55a(2)(e).
Article 2 The Appointing Authority may, at the request of the official concerned, withdraw the authorisation before expiry of the period for which it is granted.
The date of withdrawal may not be more than two months after the date proposed by the official or four months after that date if the part-time work was authorised for more than one year.
Article 3 An official shall be entitled, during the period for which part-time work is authorised, to a percentage of his remuneration corresponding to the percentage of the normal time worked.
The official may also request that contributions to the pension scheme be calculated by reference to the basic salary payable to an official working full time, in accordance with Article 83 of the Staff Regulations.
Acquired pension rights, for the purposes of Articles 2, 3 and 5 of Annex VIII, shall be calculated in proportion to the percentage of contributions paid.
During the period of part-time work, the official may not work overtime or engage in any gainful activity, other than an activity in accordance with Article 15 of the Staff Regulations.
Officials who make an application under this Article shall be required, when they cease to work half-time, either to retire or to repay the amount exceeding 50 % of the basic salary received during the period of half-time work.
If the place of employment is outside these territories, the travelling time shall be fixed by special decision taking into account particular needs.%quot%; 96) in Annex VI, in Articles 1 and 3, the words %quot%categories C and D%quot% are replaced by %quot%grade AST 1 to AST 4%quot%; 97) Annex VII is amended as follows: (a) Article 1 is amended as follows: (i) paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: %quot%1.
Where a husband and wife are both officials of the Communities, each has the right in respect of himself or herself and in respect of dependants to the flat-rate payment of travelling expenses, in accordance with the above provisions; each dependant shall be entitled to one payment only.
Where an official furnishes evidence that a change in the place of residence is required in order to comply with Article 20 of the Staff Regulations, such official shall be entitled for a period specified in paragraph 2 of this Article to a subsistence allowance per calendar day as follows: Official entitled to receive household allowance: EUR 34,31.
Official not entitled to receive household allowance: EUR 27,67.
Save in special cases, to be determined by special decision and in particular where an official is called back from leave, the reimbursement of mission expenses shall be limited to the cost of the most economical journey between the place of employment and the place of mission which does not require the official on mission to extend his stay significantly.%quot%; (k) Articles 12 and 13 are replaced by the following: %quot%Article 12 1.
Travel by air Officials shall be authorised to travel by air if the outward and return journeys by rail would total at least 800 kilometres. 3.
The transfers referred to in point (b) may not exceed 5 % of the official's basic salary. 3.
However, officials covered by Article 40 of the Staff Regulations shall be subject to the conditions laid down in the last sentence of the second subparagraph of paragraph 3 thereof; (b) periods of entitlement to the allowance under Articles 41 and 50 of the Staff Regulations, up to a maximum of five years. (c) periods of entitlement to an invalidity allowance; (d) periods of service in any other capacity in accordance with the Conditions of Employment of other servants.
The surplus contributions, if any, corresponding to the difference between the number of years of pensionable service calculated and the number of years of actual service, shall be reimbursed to the person concerned on the basis on the last basic salary received as a member of the contract staff.
An official leaving the service before reaching the age of 63 years may request that his retirement pension: (a) be deferred until the first day of the calendar month following that in which he reaches the age of 63; or (b) be paid immediately, provided that he is not less than 55 years of age.
The pension shall be reduced by 3,5 % for every year before the one in which officials would become entitled to a retirement pension within the meaning of Article 77 of the Staff Regulations.
The annual percentage may vary from 8 % to 12 %, subject to a total of 20 % over two years and the principle of budget neutrality.
An official aged less than 63 years whose service terminates otherwise than by reason of death or invalidity and who is not entitled to an immediate or deferred retirement pension shall be entitled on leaving the service: (a) where he has completed less than one year's service and has not made use of the arrangement laid down in Article 11(2), to payment of a severance grant equal to three times the amounts withheld from his basic salary in respect of his pension contributions, after deduction of any amounts paid under Articles 42 and 112 of the Conditions of Employment of other servants; (b) in other cases, to the benefits provided under Article 11(1) or to the payment of the actuarial equivalent of such benefits to a private insurance company or pension fund of their choice, on condition such company or fund guarantees that: (i) the capital will not be repaid; (ii) a monthly income will be paid from age 60 at the earliest, and age 65 at the latest; (iii) provisions are included for reversion or survivors' pensions; (iv) transfer to another insurance company or other fund will be authorised only if such fund fulfils the conditions laid down in points (i), (ii) and (iii). 2.
By way of derogation from paragraph 1(b), officials under 63 years of age who, since taking up their duties, have, in order to establish or maintain pension rights, paid into a national pension scheme, a private insurance scheme or a pension fund of their choice which satisfies the requirements set out in paragraph 1, and whose service terminates for reasons other than death or invalidity without their qualifying for an immediate or deferred retirement pension, shall be entitled, on leaving the service, to a severance grant equal to the actuarial value of their pension rights acquired during service in the institutions.
In these cases the payments made in order to establish or maintain their pension rights under the national pension scheme in application of Articles 42 or 112 of the Conditions of Employment of other servants shall be deducted from the severance grant. 3.
The minimum survivor's pension shall be 35 % of the last basic salary; the amount of the survivor's pension shall in no case, however, exceed the amount of the retirement pension which the spouse was receiving at the time of death.
The survivor's pension may not, however, exceed the amount of maintenance paid at the time of death of the former spouse, the amount having been adjusted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 82 of the Staff Regulations.
This Article shall apply by analogy to the recipients of an invalidity allowance.%quot%; (oo) in Article 46, the words %quot%of a retirement or invalidity pension%quot% are replaced by %quot%of a retirement pension or invalidity allowance%quot%; 99) Annex IX is replaced by the following: %quot%ANNEX IX DISCIPLINARY PROCEEDINGS Section 1 General provisions Article 1 1.
The institutions shall adopt implementing arrangements for this Article, in accordance with Article 110 of the Staff Regulations.
On the basis of the investigation report, after having notified the official concerned of all evidence in the files and after hearing the official concerned, the Appointing Authority may: (a) decide that no case can be made against the official, in which case the official shall be informed accordingly in writing; or (b) decide, even if there is or appears to have been a failure to comply with obligations, that no disciplinary measure shall be taken and, if appropriate, address a warning to the official; or (c) in the case of failure to comply with obligations within the meaning of Article 86 of the Staff Regulations: (i) decide to initiate the disciplinary proceedings provided for in Section 4 of this Annex, or (ii) decide to initiate disciplinary proceedings before the Disciplinary Board.
Section 2 Disciplinary board Article 5 1.
The Board shall consist of a chairman and four full members, who may be replaced by alternates, and, in cases involving an official in a grade up to AD 13, two additional members in the same function group and grade as the official subject to disciplinary proceedings. 3.
The members and alternates of the Board shall be appointed from amongst the officials in grade AD 14 or above in active employment in respect of all cases other than those concerning officials in grades AD 16 or AD 15. 4.
The members and alternates of the Board shall be appointed from amongst officials in grade AD 16 in active employment for cases involving officials in grades AD 16 or AD 15. 5.
The Appointing Authority and the Staff Committee shall agree on an ad hoc procedure to designate the further members referred to in paragraph 2 who shall sit for cases involving an official posted to a third country.
However, the institutions may provide for a shorter period for members and alternates, subject to a minimum of one year. 4.
At the same time, the Staff Committee shall send the Appointing Authority a list drawn up on the same basis; (b) within ten days of the notification of the report on which the decision to open disciplinary proceedings or the procedure laid down in Article 22 of the Staff Regulations is based, the chairman of the Board, in the presence of the person concerned, shall draw by lot from the abovementioned lists the names of the two Board members, one member being drawn from each list.
If necessary, the chairman of the Board shall draw new lots to replace the members appointed in accordance with paragraph 4.
Article 7 The Board shall be assisted by a secretary appointed by the Appointing Authority.
Section 3 Disciplinary measures Article 9 1.
The Appointing Authority may impose one of the following penalties: (a) a written warning; (b) a reprimand; (c) deferment of advancement to a higher step for a period of between one and 23 months; (d) relegation in step; (e) temporary downgrading for a period of between 15 days and one year; (f) downgrading in the same function group; (g) classification in a lower function group, with or without downgrading; (h) removal from post and, where appropriate, reduction pro tempore of a pension or withholding, for a fixed period, of an amount from an invalidity allowance; the effects of this measure shall not extend to the official's dependants.
Where the official is in receipt of a retirement pension or an invalidity allowance, the Appointing Authority may decide to withhold an amount from the pension or the invalidity allowance for a given period; the effects of this measure shall not extend to the official's dependants.
Article 10 The severity of the disciplinary penalties imposed shall be commensurate with the seriousness of the misconduct.
Section 4 Disciplinary proceedings not involving the disciplinary board Article 11 The Appointing Authority may decide on the penalty of a written warning or reprimand without consulting the Board.
Section 5 Disciplinary proceedings before the disciplinary board Article 12 1.
Article 18 After consideration of documents submitted and having regard to any statement made orally or in writing and to the results of any investigation undertaken, the Board shall, by majority vote, deliver a reasoned opinion as to whether the facts complained of are established and as to any penalty to which those facts should give rise.
Article 20 The secretary shall draw up minutes of meetings of the Disciplinary Board.
Reasons must be given for the decision. 2.
If the Appointing Authority accuses an official of serious misconduct, whether through a failure to honour his professional obligations or through an infringement of the law, it may immediately suspend the person accused of that misconduct for a specified or indefinite period. 2.
The amount paid to the official shall not under any circumstances be less than the minimum subsistence figure laid down in Article 6 of Annex VIII to these Staff Regulations, with the addition of any family allowances payable. 2.
The situation of a suspended official must be definitively settled within six months of the date on which the suspension takes effect.
Sums withheld under paragraph 1 shall be repaid to the official if the final decision imposes a disciplinary penalty no more severe than a written warning, reprimand or deferment of advancement to a higher step, or if no disciplinary penalty is imposed; in the latter case, the repayment shall be made with compound interest at the rate defined in Article 12 of Annex XII.
Section 7 Parallel criminal prosecution Article 25 Where the official is prosecuted for those same acts, a final decision shall be taken only after a final judgment has been handed down by the court hearing the case.
Section 8 Final provisions Article 26 The decisions referred to under Articles 11, 14, 22 and 23 of this Annex shall be sent for information to OLAF in cases where an investigation was initiated by the Office.
Article 27 An official against whom a disciplinary penalty other than removal from post has been ordered may, after three years in the case of a written warning or reprimand or after six years in the case of any other penalty, submit a request for the deletion from his personal file of all reference to such measure.
Article 28 Where new facts supported by relevant evidence come to light, disciplinary proceedings may be reopened by the Appointing Authority on its own initiative or on application by the official concerned.
Article 29 If no case has been made against the official pursuant to Articles 1(3) and 22(2) of this Annex, the official shall be entitled to request that the damage suffered should be made good through suitable publicity for the decision of the Appointing Authority.
The specific indicators shall take two forms: (i) one indicator for each of the function groups, as defined in the Staff Regulations, (ii) an average indicator weighted to reflect the number of national civil servants corresponding to each function group.
The Council, acting on a Commission proposal under Article 65(3) of the Staff Regulations, may adopt a new sample which represents at least 75 % of the European Union GDP and which will apply from the year following its adoption.
Under Article 65(3) of the Staff Regulations, the Council, acting on a Commission proposal and on the basis of the criteria set out in Section 1 of this Annex, shall take a decision before the end of each year adjusting remuneration and pensions, with effect from 1 July. 2.
The amount of the adjustment thus fixed shall be incorporated, in accordance with the following method, in the basic salary tables appearing in Article 66 of the Staff Regulations and in Annex XIII to the Staff Regulations and in Articles 20, 63 and 93 of the Conditions of Employment of other servants: (a) the net remuneration and net pension without correction coefficient shall be increased or reduced by the annual adjustment referred to above, (b) the new table of basic salaries shall be drawn up by calculating the gross amount which, after deduction of tax having regard to paragraph 4 and compulsory deductions for social security and pension contributions, corresponds to the net amount, (c) the conversion of net amounts into gross amounts shall be based on the situation of an unmarried official who does not receive the allowances provided for in the Staff Regulations. 4.
The correction coefficients applicable: (a) to the salaries of officials of the Communities serving in the other Member States and in certain other places of employment, (b) by derogation from Article 82(1) of the Staff Regulations, to Community pensions paid in the other Member States for the part corresponding to the acquired rights acquired before 1 May 2004, shall be determined on the basis of the ratios between the corresponding economic parities referred to in Article 1 of this Annex and the exchange rates specified in Article 63 of the Staff Regulations for the relevant countries.
The procedures laid down in Article 8 of this Annex concerning the retrospective application of correction coefficients in places of employment with a high rate of inflation shall apply. 6.
Intermediate adjustments of remuneration and pensions pursuant to Article 65(2) of the Staff Regulations, taking effect on 1 January, shall be made in the event of a substantial change in the cost of living between June and December (by reference to the sensitivity threshold defined in Article 6(1) of this Annex) and with due allowance being made for the forecast of the change in purchasing power during the current annual reference period. 2.
The Commission proposal shall be sent to the Council not later than the second half of April. 3.
In March each year Eurostat shall make a forecast of changes in purchasing power over the period concerned on the basis of the information supplied at the meeting provided for in Article 12 of this Annex.
The change in the cost of living shall be calculated according to the rules set out in Article 1(3).
The sensitivity threshold for the six-month period mentioned in Article 5(2) of this Annex shall be the percentage corresponding to 7 % for a 12 month period. 2.
Correction coefficients shall be the ratio between the relevant economic parity and the exchange rate provided for in Article 63 of the Staff Regulations, multiplied, if the adjustment threshold is not reached for Brussels, by the value of the adjustment.
CHAPTER 3 DATE ON WHICH A CORRECTION COEFFICIENT COMES INTO EFFECT (PLACES OF EMPLOYMENT WITH A HIGH COST-OF-LIVING INCREASE) Article 8 1.
The effective dates for the annual adjustment shall be as follows: (a) 16 May for places of employment having an implicit index higher than 6,3 %, and (b) 1 May for places of employment having an implicit index higher than 12,6 %. 3.
The effective dates for the intermediate adjustment shall be as follows: (a) 16 November for places of employment having an implicit index higher than 6,3 %, and (b) 1 November for places of employment having an implicit index higher than 12,6 %.
CHAPTER 4 CREATION AND WITHDRAWAL OF CORRECTION COEFFICIENTS (ARTICLE 64 OF THE STAFF REGULATIONS) Article 9 1.
If Eurostat confirms that the difference is appreciable (more than 5 %) and sustainable, the Commission should present a proposal to set a correction coefficient for that place. 2.
The Council shall decide on the proposal in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Staff Regulations.
CHAPTER 5 EXCEPTION CLAUSE Article 10 If there is a serious and sudden deterioration in the economic and social situation within the Community, assessed in the light of objective data supplied for this purpose by the Commission, the latter shall submit appropriate proposals on which the Council shall act in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 283 of the EC Treaty.
Article 13 At least once a year and not later than September, Eurostat shall convene a working group composed of experts from the appropriate authorities in the Member States to be known as the %quot%Working Group on Article 64 of the Staff Regulations%quot%.
Article 14 At the request of Eurostat, Member States shall inform Eurostat of any factors having a direct or indirect impact on the composition and changes in the remuneration of central government civil servants.
CHAPTER 7 FINAL PROVISION AND REVIEW CLAUSE Article 15 1.
In order to determine the contribution of officials to the pension scheme referred to in Article 83(2) of the Staff Regulations, the Commission shall, every five years starting in 2004, carry out the actuarial assessment of the balance of the pension scheme referred to in Article 83a(3) of the Staff Regulations.
In preparation for the examination referred to in Article 83a(4) of the Staff Regulations, the Commission shall every year update this actuarial assessment, having regard to changes in the population as defined in Article 9 of this Annex, in the interest rate as defined in Article 10 of this Annex and in the rate of annual change in the salary scales of EC officials as defined in Article 11 of this Annex. 3.
The assessment and updates shall be carried out in each year n, on the basis of the population of active members of the pension scheme at 31 December of the previous year (n-1).
The adjustment taking effect on 1 July 2005 shall not lead to a contribution higher than 10,25 %. 3.
CHAPTER 2 ASSESSMENT OF THE ACTUARIAL BALANCE Article 3 The five-yearly actuarial assessments shall lay down the conditions for balance by taking into account, as charges on the scheme, the retirement pension as defined in Article 77 of the Staff Regulations, the invalidity allowance as defined in Article 78 of the Staff Regulations, survivors' pensions as defined in Articles 79 and 80 of the Staff Regulations.
Under the method, the %quot%actuarial value%quot% of the pension rights earned before the calculation date represents a past service liability, while the actuarial value of the pension rights that will be earned in the year of service beginning on the calculation date represents the %quot%service cost%quot%. 3.
All the relevant provisions provided for in these Staff Regulations (particularly in Annexes VIII and XIII) shall be taken into account in the actuarial evaluation of the service cost. 6.
The smoothing shall be obtained through a 12-year moving average for the interest rate and for the increase in the salary scales.
The contribution formula is based on the equation: %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% 2.
the actuarial value of the pension rights that will become payable to the active officials who are expected to become invalids during year n; and (c) the survivor's service cost (detailed in Article 8 of this Annex), i.e.
If the cumulated pension rights (rights from the recruitment, including transfers) credited to the official at 31 December of year n-1 are at least 70 % he will deemed not to have acquired any right to pension during year n. 2.
The projected basic salary (PS) at retirement shall be calculated starting from the basic salary at 31 December of the previous year and taking into account the rate of annual increase in the salary scales and the estimated annual rate of increase due to seniority and promotions as follows: %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% where: SAL= present salary GSG= estimated annual rate of General Salary Growth, (the rate of annual change in the salary scales) ISP= estimated annual rate of Increase due to Seniority and Promotions m= difference between the assumed age of retirement (r) and the official's present age (x) Since the calculations shall be made in real terms, net of inflation, the rate of annual change in the salary scales and the annual rate of increase due to seniority and promotions shall be rates of increases net of inflation. 3.
On the basis of the calculation of the pension rights earned by a given official, the actuarial value of those pension rights (and of the reversionary pensions linked to them) shall be calculated by multiplying the annual pension rights as defined above by the sum of: (a) an immediate deferred annuity at age x, deferred m years: %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% where: x= official's age at 31 December of year n-1 = interest rate kpx= probability of a person of age x still being alive in k years m= difference between the assumed age of retirement (r) and the official's present age (x) GSG= estimated annual rate of General Salary Growth, (the rate of annual change in the salary scales) = ceiling of the mortality table; and (b) an immediate deferred reversionary annuity at ages x and y, where y is the assumed age of the spouse.
This latter annuity shall be multiplied by the probability of the official of being married and by the applicable reversion rate established in accordance with Annex VIII: %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% where: x= official's age at 31 December of year n-1 y= age of the official's spouse at 31 December of year n-1 = interest rate kpx= probability of an official of age x still being alive in k years kpy= probability of a person of age y (spouse of the official of age x) still being alive in k years m= difference between the assumed age of retirement (r) and the official's present age (x) GSG= estimated annual rate of General Salary Growth, (the rate of annual change in the salary scales) = ceiling of the mortality table. 4.
This information shall be collected annually by the Commission using information received from the different institutions and agencies whose staff are members of the scheme.
From the observation of this population shall be deduced in particular the structure of the population, the average age of retirement and the invalidity table. 2.
The effective annual rate to be taken into consideration for the actuarial calculations shall be the average of the real average interest rates for the 12 years preceding the current year.
The annual change in the salary scales of officials to be taken into consideration for the actuarial calculations shall be based on the specific indicators referred to in Article 1(4) of Annex XI. 2.
The effective annual rate to be taken into consideration for the actuarial calculations shall be the average of the net specific indicators for the European Union for the 12 years preceding the current year.
Article 12 The rate in Articles 4 and 8 of Annex VIII for the calculation of compound interest shall be the effective rate referred to in Article 10 of this Annex and shall, if necessary, be revised on the occasion of the five-yearly actuarial assessments.
CHAPTER 4 IMPLEMENTATION Article 13 1.
Eurostat shall be assisted by one or more qualified independent experts in carrying out the actuarial assessments referred to in Article 1 of this Annex.
Eurostat shall provide such experts with, in particular, the parameters referred to in Articles 9 to 11 of this Annex. 3.
Each year on 1 September Eurostat shall submit a report on the assessments and updatings referred to in Article 1 of this Annex. 4.
The Council shall act on this proposal by the qualified majority provided for in the first indent of Article 205(2) of the EC Treaty. 3.
ANNEX XIII Transitional measures applicable to officials of the Communities (Article 107a of the Staff Regulations) Section 1 Article 1 1.
Category A* shall comprise twelve grades, category B* shall comprise nine grades, category C* shall comprise seven grades and category D* shall contain five grades.%quot% 2.
On 1 May 2004, and subject to Article 8 of this Annex, the grades of officials having one of the administrative statuses set out in Article 35 of the Staff Regulations shall be renamed as follows: %gt%TABLE%gt% 2.
Subject to the provisions of Article 7 of this Annex, basic monthly salaries shall be determined for each grade and step as provided for in the following tables (in euro): %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% 3.
Salaries shall be determined in accordance with Article 7 of this Annex.
Officials whose names appear before 1 May 2006 on the list of candidates suitable for transfer from one category to another shall, if transfer takes place as from 1 May 2004 be placed in the grade and step they occupied in the former category, or failing this at the first step in the starting grade of the new category. 3.
Articles 1 to 11 of this Annex shall apply to temporary servants engaged before 1 May 2004 who are subsequently recruited as officials in accordance with paragraph 4. 4.
Temporary servants whose names appear before 1 May 2006 on the list of candidates suitable for transfer from one category to another or on the list of successful candidates of an internal competition shall, if recruitment takes place as from 1 May 2004, be placed in the grade and step they occupied as a temporary servant in the former category, or failing this at the first step in the starting grade of the new category. 5.
An official in grade A3 on 30 April 2004 shall, upon appointment after that date as Director, be promoted to the next higher grade, in accordance with Article 7(5) of this Annex.
The last sentence of Article 46 of the Staff Regulations shall not apply.
Article 6 Without prejudice to Articles 9 and 10 of this Annex, for the first promotion of officials recruited before 1 May 2004, the percentages referred to in Article 6(2) of the Staff Regulations and in Annex I, point B to the Staff Regulations shall be adapted to comply with the arrangements in force in each institution prior to that date.
Article 7 Basic monthly salaries of officials recruited before 1 May 2004 shall be determined in accordance with the following rules: 1.
This multiplication factor shall be equal to the ratio between the basic monthly salary paid to an official before 1 May 2004 and the applicable amount defined in Article 2(2) of this Annex.
The multiplication factor shall be applied in order to determine the official's basic monthly salary following advancement in step or adjustment of remunerations. 3.
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, for periods after 1 May 2004 the basic monthly salary paid to an official shall be not less than that he would have received under the system in force before that date through automatic advancement in step in the grade formerly occupied by him.
For each grade and step, the former basic salary to be taken into account is equal to the applicable amount after 1 May 2004 multiplied by the coefficient defined in Article 2(2) of this Annex. 4.
An official in grades A*10 to A*16 and AD 10 to 16 respectively who is on 30 April 2004 head of unit, director or director-general, or is subsequently appointed head of unit, director or director general and has performed his new duties satisfactorily during the first nine months, shall be entitled to an increase in the basic monthly salary corresponding to the percentage between the first and the second step in each grade as set out in the tables in Article 2(1) and Article 8(1) of this Annex. 5.
If, after promotion, the multiplication factor is less than 1, the official shall, by derogation from Article 44 of the Staff Regulations, remain in the first step of his new grade for as long as the multiplication factor remains below 1 or until he is promoted.
Once the factor rises to 1, the official shall start to advance in step in accordance with Article 44 of the Staff Regulations.
Without prejudice to the provisions of Article 7 of this Annex, basic monthly salaries shall be determined for each grade and step on the basis of the table in Article 66 of the Staff Regulations.
For officials who have been recruited before 1 May 2004 and until their first promotion comes into effect after that date, the table shall be as follows: %gt%TABLE%gt% Article 9 From 1 May 2004 to 30 April 2011 and by derogation from Annex I, point B, to the Staff Regulations, with regard to officials in grades AD 12 and 13 and AST 10 the percentages referred to in Article 6(2) of the Staff Regulations shall be as follows: %gt%TABLE%gt% Article 10 1.
Officials in service before 1 May 2004 categories C or D shall be assigned as of 1 May 2006 to career streams allowing for promotions: (a) in former category C up to grade AST 7; (b) in former category D up to grade AST 5; 2.
For those officials, as of 1 May 2004 and by derogation from Annex I, Section B, to the Staff Regulations, the percentages referred to in Article 6(2) of the Staff Regulations shall be as follows: %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% 3.
The institutions shall adopt rules implementing this procedure before 1 May 2004.
This Article shall not apply to officials who have changed category after 1 May 2004.
Article 11 Article 45(2) shall not apply to promotions that take effect prior to 1 May 2006.
Between 1 May 2004 and 30 April 2006, reference to grades in function groups AST and AD in paragraph 2 and 3 of Article 31 of the Staff Regulations shall be made as follows: - AST 1 to AST 4: C*1 to C*2 and B*3 to B*4, - AD 5 to AD 8: A*5 to A*8, - AD 9, AD 10, AD 11, AD 12: A*9, A*10, A*11, A*12. 2.
Officials who have been included in a list of suitable candidates before 1 May 2006 and are recruited between 1 May 2004 and 30 April 2006 shall: - if the list was drawn up for category A*, B* or C*, be graded in the grade published in the competition; - if the list was drawn up for category A, LA, B or C, be graded in accordance with the following table: %gt%TABLE%gt% Article 13 1.
Officials who have been included in a list of suitable candidates before 1 May 2006 and are recruited after that date shall be graded in accordance with the following table: %gt%TABLE%gt% 2.
By way of derogation from Article 12(3) and paragraph (1) of this Article, the institutions may recruit officials entrusted with lawyer-linguist duties at grade A*7 or AD 7 respectively who have been included in a list of suitable candidates resulting from a competition at LA 7 and LA 6 level or A*7 level before 1 May 2006.
However, the Appointing Authority may, taking into account the training and special experience for the post of the person concerned, allow additional seniority in his/her grade; this shall not exceed 48 months.
Section 3 Article 14 %gt%TABLE%gt% These amounts shall be adjusted each year by the same percentage as the annual adjustment specified in Annex XI to the Staff Regulations.
Article 15 %gt%TABLE%gt% These amounts shall be adjusted each year by the same percentage as the annual adjustment specified in Annex XI to the Staff Regulations.
Article 16 Notwithstanding Article 3 of Annex VII to the Staff Regulations, an official in receipt of a lump-sum payment of education allowance will continue to receive such payment as long as the conditions under which it was granted are fulfilled and at the latest until 31 August 2008.
The amounts of the lump-sum payments will, however, be reduced to 80 % of their value of 30 April 2004 on 1 September 2004, to 60 % on 1 September 2005, to 40 % on 1 September 2006, and to 20 % on 1 September 2007.
Article 17 From 1 May 2004 to 31 December 2008, notwithstanding Article 17(2) of Annex VII to the Staff Regulations, an additional amount may be transferred, subject to the following conditions: (a) that amount must have been transferred regularly prior to 1 May 2004 and the conditions required for its authorisation must continue to be satisfied; (b) %gt%TABLE%gt% Article 18 1.
Beneficiaries who were entitled in the month before 1 May 2004 to the fixed allowance mentioned in the former Article 4a of Annex VII to the Staff Regulations shall keep it ad personam up to grade 6.
The amounts of the allowance shall be adjusted every year by the same percentage as the annual pay adjustment referred to in Annex XI of the Staff Regulations.
When the net remuneration of an official who has been promoted to grade 7, as a consequence of the abolition of the fixed allowance, is lower than the net remuneration he received, all other conditions being unchanged, in the last month before the promotion, he shall be entitled to a compensatory allowance equal to the difference until his advancement to the next higher step in grade. 2.
Officials in Categories C and D before 1 May 2004 who have not become members of the assistants' function group AST without restriction in accordance with Article 10(3) of this Annex shall continue to be entitled either to compensatory leave or to remuneration, where the requirements of the service do not allow compensatory leave during the month following that in which the overtime was worked, as provided for in Annex VI.
Article 19 If, during the transition period from 1 May 2004 to 31 December 2008, an official's net monthly remuneration, before application of any correction coefficient, is lower than the net remuneration he would have received under the same personal conditions in the month before 1 May 2004, he shall be entitled to a compensatory allowance equal to the difference.
The minimum applicable correction coefficient shall be 100.
By way of derogation from Article 45 of Annex VIII, the pension of beneficiaries who reside in a Member State shall be paid in the currency of the Member State of residence under the conditions laid down in the second paragraph of Article 63 of the Staff Regulations. 2.
By derogation from the first subparagraph of paragraph 1, from 1 May 2004 until 1 May 2009, pensions determined before 1 May 2004 shall be adjusted by applying the average of the correction coefficients referred to in points (a) and (b) of Article 3(5) of Annex XI to the Staff Regulations, used for the Member State in which the pension recipient has established proven main residence.
However, for family or medical reasons, officials receiving a pension may exceptionally request the Appointing Authority to change their place of origin.
By way of derogation from Article 45 of Annex VIII, the pension of beneficiaries who reside in a Member State shall be paid in the currency of the Member State of residence under the conditions laid down in the second paragraph of Article 63 of the Staff Regulations. 4.
This Article shall apply by analogy to invalidity allowances and to allowances under Articles 41 and 50 of the Staff Regulations and Regulations (EEC) No 1857/89 (EC, Euratom, ECSC) 2688/95(1), (EC Euratom, ECSC) 2689/95(2), (EC, Euratom) No 1746/2002, (EC, Euratom) No 1747/2002 or (EC, Euratom) No 1748/2002.
However, this Article shall not apply to the beneficiaries of the allowance referred to in Article 41 of the Staff Regulations who reside in the country of their last place of employment.
Article 21 Notwithstanding the second sentence of the second paragraph of Article 77, officials who entered the service before 1 May 2004 shall be entitled to 2 % of the salary referred to therein for every year of pensionable service calculated in accordance with Article 3 of Annex VIII.
Officials aged 50 or over or with 20 or more years' service on 1 May 2004 shall become entitled to a retirement pension when they reach the age of 60.
Officials aged between 30 and 49 years on 1 May 2004 shall become entitled to a retirement pension at the age shown in the table below: %gt%TABLE%gt% Officials aged less than 30 years on 1 May 2004 shall become entitled to a retirement pension at the age of 63 years.
For officials in service before 1 May 2004 the pensionable age to be taken into consideration for all references to the pensionable age in these Staff Regulations shall be determined in accordance with the above provisions, save as otherwise provided in these Staff Regulations. 2.
Notwithstanding Article 2 of Annex VIII, officials who enter the service before 1 May 2004 * and remain in service after the age at which they would have become entitled to a retirement pension shall be entitled to an increase in the percentage of their basic pension for each year worked after that age, provided that their total pension does not exceed 70 % of final basic salary within the meaning of the second or third paragraph of Article 77 of the Staff Regulations, as the case may be.
The increase shall also be granted in the event of death, if the official has remained in service beyond the age at which he became entitled to a retirement pension.
If, pursuant to Annex IVa, an official who enters the service before 1 May 2004 and working part-time contributes to the pension scheme in proportion to the time worked, the increase in pension entitlements provided for in this Article shall be applied only in the same proportion.
For officials aged 50 years or over or with 20 or more years' service, the increase in pension provided for in the previous subparagraph shall be equal to 5 % of the amount of the pension rights acquired at the age of 60.
For officials aged between 40 and 49, the maximum increase in pension shall be 3,0 % of the salary taken into account for calculating the pension, but shall not exceed 4,5 % of the pension rights acquired by those officials at the age of 60.
For officials aged between 35 and 39, the maximum increase in the pension shall be 2,75 % of the salary taken into account for calculating the pension, but shall not exceed 4,0 % of the pension rights acquired by those officials at the age of 60.
For officials aged between 30 and 34, the maximum pension bonus shall be 2,5 % of the salary taken into account for calculating pension, but shall not exceed 3,5 % of the pension rights acquired by those officials at the age of 60.
For officials aged less than 30, the maximum increase in the pension shall be set at 2,0 % of the salary taken into account for calculating the pension. 3.
The Council shall act on this proposal by the qualified majority provided for in the first indent of Article 205(2) of the EC Treaty. 4.
Officials who entered service before 1 May 2004 and who, after Articles 2, 3 and 11 of Annex VIII have been applied to them, cannot attain at the age of 65 the maximum retirement pension provided for in the second paragraph of Article 77 of the Staff Regulations, may acquire additional pension rights subject to that maximum limit.
Notwithstanding Article 52 of the Staff Regulations, application of the second indent of Article 9 of Annex VIII may be requested by officials who enter the service before 1 May 2004 and who leave the service before the age at which they would have become entitled to a retirement pension in accordance with Article 22 of this Annex: (a) from the age of 50 for those aged at least 45 or with 20 or more years' service on 1 May 2004; (b) from the age determined in accordance with the table below for officials aged up to 45 years on 1 May 2004: %gt%TABLE%gt% 2.
In such cases, in addition to the reduction in retirement pension rights referred to in Article 9 of Annex VIII for officials who leave the service at the age of at least 55 years, acquired pension rights shall be further reduced by 4,483 % if receipt of pension commences at the age of 54 years; by 8,573 % if receipt commences at the age of 53 years; by 12,316 % if receipt commences at the age of 52 years; by 15,778 % if receipt commences at the age of 51 years; and by 18,934 % if receipt of retirement pension commences at the age of 50 years.
However, the rules on family allowances and correction coefficients in force as from 1 May 2004 shall apply immediately without prejudice to the application of Article 20 of this Annex.
Notwithstanding the first subparagraph, recipients of an invalidity pension or a survivor's pension may ask to be covered by the provisions applicable as from 1 May 2004. 2.
For recipients of a pension before 1 May 2004, the nominal pension shall be calculated each month taking into account the family situation and the country of residence at the time of calculation, and the Staff Regulations rules in force on the date preceding 1 May 2004.
For officials who retire between 1 May 2004 and 31 December 2007, the nominal pension shall be calculated each month taking into account family situation and country of residence at the time of calculation, and the Staff Regulations rules in force on the date when they retire.
The basic salary taken into account for determining the recipient's pension shall be equivalent to the salary in the table in Article 66 of the Staff Regulations for the new grade thus determined, at the same step, weighted by a percentage equivalent to the ratio of basic salary under the old scale to that under the scale in Article 66 of the Staff Regulations for the same step.
For steps under the old scale without correspondence in the scale in Article 66 of the Staff Regulations, the last step of the same grade shall be used as the reference for calculating the percentage referred to in the second subparagraph.
For steps under the old scale without correspondence in the scale in Article 66 of the Staff Regulations, the last step in the same grade shall be used as the reference for calculating the multiplication factor.
Paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article shall apply by analogy to recipients of one of the allowances paid under Articles 41 or 50 of the Staff Regulations or under Regulation (EEC) No 1857/89, Regulation (EC, Euratom, ECSC) 2688/1995, Regulation (EC Euratom, ECSC) No 2689/1995, Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1746/2002, Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1747/2002 or Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1748/2002.
Requests to qualify for the facilities for transfer of pension rights under Article 11(2) of Annex VIII submitted before 1 May 2004 shall be considered in accordance with the rules in force at the time of their submission. 2.
In so far as the time limit stipulated in Article 11(2) of Annex VIII has not yet been exceeded on 1 May 2004, the officials concerned who did not submit such a request within the time limits previously stipulated, or whose request has been rejected for having been submitted after those time limits, shall still be able to submit or resubmit a request for transfer under Article 11(2) of Annex VIII. 3.
Officials who agreed to transfer their pension rights pursuant to Article 11(2) of Annex VIII before 1 May 2004 may request recalculation of the bonus already obtained under the Community institutions' pension scheme pursuant to that Article.
Recalculation shall be based on the parameters in force at the time when the bonus was obtained, adjusted in accordance with Article 22 of this Annex. 6.
Unless they have benefited from Article 11(2) or (3) of Annex VIII to the Staff Regulations, officials in service on 1 May 2004 and who would, for lack of a transfer option under Article 11(1), have been entitled to payment of a severance grant in accordance with the Staff Regulations rules in force before 1 May 2004, shall retain the right to payment of a severance grant calculated in accordance with the rules in force before that date.
Article 28 The servants referred to in Article 2 of the Conditions of Employment of other servants who are under contract on 1 May 2004 and are appointed as officials after that date shall, on retirement, be entitled to an actuarial adjustment of the pension rights they acquired as temporary servants which takes into account the change in their pensionable age within the meaning of Article 77 of the Staff Regulations.
Article 29 For temporary servants engaged before 1 May 2004, in accordance with Article 2(c) of the Conditions of Employment of Other Servants, to assist a political group in the European Parliament the requirement laid down in Article 29(3) and (4) of the Staff Regulations that the temporary servant has passed a selection procedure in conformity with Article 12(4) of the Conditions of Employment shall not apply. (1) OJ L 280, 23.11.1995, p. 1.
Regulation as amended by Regulation (EC, ECSC, Euratom) No 2458/98 (OJ L 307, 17.11.1998, p. 1). (2) OJ L 280, 23.11.1995, p. 4.
Regulation as amended by Regulation (EC, ECSC, Euratom) No 2458/98.
ANNEX XIII.1 Types of posts during the transitional period Types of posts in each category, as provided for in Article 4(n) of this Annex. %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt%%quot% (1) OJ L 56, 4.3.1968, p. 8.
For the purposes of these Conditions of Employment, 'contract staff' means staff not assigned to a post included in the list of posts appended to the section of the budget relating to the institution concerned and engaged for the performance of full-time or part-time duties: (a) in an institution to carry out manual or administrative support service tasks, (b) in the agencies referred to in Article 1a(2) of the Staff Regulations, (c) in other entities inside the European Union created, after consultation of the Staff Regulations Committee, by specific legal act issued by one or more institutions allowing for the use of such staff, (d) in Representations and Delegations of Community institutions, (e) in other entities situated outside the European Union. 2.
The Commission shall, on the basis of information provided by all institutions, submit a report to the budgetary authority each year on the employment of contract staff, which shall state whether the overall number of such members of the contract staff has remained within a limit of 75 % of all employees in agencies, in other entities inside the European Union, in Representations and Delegations of Community institutions and in other entities situated outside the European Union respectively.
Article 3b For the purposes of these Conditions of Employment, 'contract staff for auxiliary tasks' means staff engaged in an institution within the time limits set in Article 88 in one of the function groups referred to in Article 89a: (a) to perform full-time or part-time duties others than those referred to in Article 3a(1)(a), without being assigned to a post included in the list of posts appended to the section of the budget relating to the institution concerned, (b) to replace, after the possibilities of temporary posting of officials within the institution have been examined, certain persons who are unable for the time being to perform their duties, namely: (i) officials or temporary staff in the function group AST; (ii) exceptionally, officials or temporary staff in the function group AD occupying a highly specialised post, except Heads of Unit, Directors, Directors General and equivalent functions.
The use of contract staff for auxiliary tasks is excluded where Article 3a applies.%quot%; 5) Article 4 is replaced by the following: %quot%Article 4 For the purposes of these Conditions of Employment, 'local staff' means staff engaged in places outside the European Union according to local practice for manual or service duties, assigned to a post not included in the list of posts appended to the section of the budget relating to each institution and paid from the total appropriations for the purpose under that section of the budget.
Staff engaged in places of employment situated outside the European Union for duties other than those mentioned above which, in the interests of the service, could not be assigned to an official or servant having another capacity within the meaning of Article 1, shall also be regarded as local staff.%quot%; 6) in Article 6, in the second paragraph, the words %quot%the provisions of the second paragraph of Article 1%quot% are replaced by %quot%Article 1a(2), Article 1b%quot%, and the words %quot%of the second paragraph of Article 2%quot% are replaced by %quot%Article 2(2)%quot%; 7) in Article 7a the figure %quot%24a%quot% is replaced by %quot%24b%quot%; 8) Article 8 is replaced by the following: %quot%Article 8 Temporary staff to whom Article 2(a) applies may be engaged for a fixed or indefinite period.
The contracts of such staff who are engaged for a fixed period may be renewed not more than once for a fixed period.
Temporary staff to whom Article 2(c) applies shall be engaged for an indefinite period.%quot%; 9) the following Article is inserted after Article 9: %quot%Article 9a The Commission shall provide a yearly report on the use of temporary staff including numbers of staff, level and type of posts, geographical balance and budgetary resources per function group.%quot%; 10) Article 10 is replaced by the following: %quot%Article 10 Articles 1d, 1e, 5(1), (2), (3) and (4), and Article 7 of the Staff Regulations shall apply by analogy.
Assignment of temporary staff to a post carrying a higher grade than that at which they were engaged shall be recorded in an agreement supplementary to their contract of service.
Title VIIIa of the Staff Regulations shall apply by analogy to temporary staff serving in a third country.%quot%; 11) In Article 12 the following paragraphs are added: %quot%3.
The Office shall ensure the transparency of selection procedures for temporary staff engaged under Article 2(a), (b) and (d). 4.
Each institution shall adopt general provisions on the procedures for recruitment of temporary staff in accordance with Article 110 of the Staff Regulations, as necessary.%quot%; 12) Article 14 is amended as follows: (a) the third paragraph is replaced by the following: %quot%Not less than one month before the expiry of the probationary period, a report shall be made on the ability of the member of the temporary staff to perform the duties pertaining to his post and also on his conduct and efficiency in the service.
Articles 63, 64, 65 and 65a of the Staff Regulations, concerning the currency in which remuneration is to be expressed and adjustments to such remuneration, shall apply by analogy. 2.
Articles 66, 67, 69 and 70 of the Staff Regulations, concerning basic salaries, family allowances, expatriation allowance and payment in the event of death, shall apply by analogy. 3.
The provisions of Article 66a of the Staff Regulations on the special levy shall apply by analogy to temporary staff. 4.
However, the installation allowance provided for in paragraph 1 and the resettlement allowance provided for in paragraph 2 shall not be less than: (a) EUR 976,85 for a servant who is entitled to the household allowance; and (b) EUR 580,83 for a servant who is not entitled to the household allowance.
In cases where a husband and wife who are officials or other servants of the Communities are both entitled to the settlement allowance or resettlement allowance, this shall be payable only to the person whose basic salary is the higher.%quot%; 19) in Article 28, first paragraph, the words %quot%invalidity pension%quot% are replaced by %quot%invalidity allowance%quot%; 20) Article 28a is amended as follows: (a) paragraphs 3 and 4 are replaced by the following: %quot%3.
These limits shall be adjusted, in the same way as the salary scales set out in Article 66 of the Staff Regulations, in accordance with Article 65 of the Staff Regulations. 4.
The period during which the unemployment allowance is payable to a former member of the temporary staff may not be more than 36 months from the date of termination of service and shall in no case exceed the equivalent of one third of the actual length of service completed.
Payment shall resume if, before the expiry of that period, the former member of the temporary staff again fulfils the said conditions and is not entitled to national unemployment benefit.%quot%; (b) paragraphs 6 and 7 are replaced by the following: %quot%6.
The unemployment allowance and the family allowances shall be paid by the Commission in euro.
That contribution shall be set at 0,81 % of the basic salary of the person concerned after deducting a standard allowance of EUR 1065,02 and without taking account of the correction coefficients provided for in Article 64 of the Staff Regulations.
This Fund shall be common to the institutions and the latter shall pay their contributions to the Commission each month, no later than eight days after the payment of remunerations.
The Council shall act on the proposals in accordance with paragraph 3.%quot%; 21) in Article 30 the words %quot%or a disability,%quot% are inserted after %quot%illness contracted,%quot%; 22) Article 33 is replaced by the following: %quot%Article 33 1.
Article 52 of the Staff Regulations shall apply by analogy to recipients of an invalidity allowance.
The invalidity allowance shall be 70 % of the final basic salary of the member of the temporary staff.
The invalidity allowance shall be subject to contributions to the pension scheme, calculated on the basis of that allowance.
Where the invalidity of the servant arises from an accident in the course of or in connection with the performance of his duties, from an occupational disease, from a public-spirited act or from risking life and limb to save another human being, the invalidity allowance shall not be less than 120 % of the minimum subsistence figure.
Persons entitled to an invalidity allowance shall also be entitled to the family allowances provided for in Article 67 of the Staff Regulations in accordance with Annex VII to the Staff Regulations; the household allowance shall be determined on the basis of the recipient's allowance. 2.
The institution referred to in Article 40 of Annex VIII to the Staff Regulations may require periodic examinations of the recipient of an invalidity allowance to establish that he still fulfils the conditions for payment of that allowance.
However, if it proves impossible to employ the person concerned in the service of the Communities, the contract may be terminated subject to payment of an amount corresponding to the remuneration that would have been paid during the period of notice and, where applicable, to the compensation for termination of contract provided for in Article 47.
Where a servant or a person entitled to a retirement pension or invalidity allowance dies but the conditions set out in the first paragraph are not satisfied, the provisions of the third paragraph of Article 80 of the Staff Regulations shall apply.
In the event of the death of a former member of the temporary staff within the meaning of Article 2(a), (c) or (d) who leaves the service before reaching 63 years of age and requests that his retirement pension be deferred until the first day of the calendar month following that in which he reaches 63 years of age, children deemed to be his dependants in accordance with Article 2 of Annex VII to the Staff Regulations shall be entitled to an orphan's pension on the same terms as those set out in the preceding paragraphs.
The orphan's pension of a person treated as a dependent child as defined in Article 2(4) of Annex VII to the Staff Regulations may not exceed twice the dependent child allowance.
Orphans shall be entitled to an education allowance in accordance with Article 3 of Annex VII to the Staff Regulations.%quot%; 27) Article 39 is replaced by the following: %quot%Article 39 1.
On leaving the service, a servant within the meaning of Article 2 shall be entitled to a retirement pension, transfer of the actuarial equivalent or the payment of the severance grant in accordance with Chapter 3 of Title V of, and Annex VIII to, the Staff Regulations.
Where the servant is entitled to a retirement pension his pension rights shall be reduced in proportion to the amounts paid under Article 42.
Where appropriate, the Commission shall submit a proposal to change after five years the maximum annual number on the basis of Article 283 of the EC Treaty. 2.
A person who becomes entitled to a retirement pension shall be entitled to the family allowances provided for in Article 67 of the Staff Regulations.
The percentage component of the household allowance shall be calculated on the basis of the recipient's pension.%quot%; 28) in Article 40, the fourth paragraph is replaced by the following: %quot%The preceding paragraph shall not apply to a servant who, in the three months following application of the Staff Regulations to him, asks to be allowed to repay such sums plus compound interest at the rate of 3,5 % per year, which may be revised following the procedure laid down in Article 12 of Annex XII to the Staff Regulations.%quot%; 29) in Article 41, the words %quot%and Article 83a%quot% are inserted after %quot%Article 83%quot%; 30) in Article 42, the words %quot%16,5 % of his basic salary%quot% are replaced by %quot%twice the rate provided for in Article 83(2) of the Staff Regulations%quot%; 31) Article 47 is replaced by the following: %quot%Article 47 Apart from cessation on death, the employment of temporary staff shall cease: (a) at the end of the month in which the servant reaches the age of 65 years; or (b) where the contract is for a fixed period: (i) on the date stated in the contract; (ii) at the end of the period of notice specified in the contract giving the servant or the institution the option to terminate earlier.
The period of notice shall not, however, commence to run during maternity leave or sick leave, provided such sick leave does not exceed three months.
If the institution terminates the contract, the servant shall be entitled to compensation equal to one third of his basic salary for the period between the date when his duties end and the date when his contract expires; (iii) where the servant no longer satisfies the conditions laid down in Article 12(2), point (a), subject to the possibility of authorising an exception under that provision.
Should the exception not be authorised, the period of notice referred to in subpoint (ii) of this point (b) shall apply; or (c) where the contract is for an indefinite period: (i) at the end of the period of notice stipulated in the contract; the length of the period of notice shall not be less than one month for each completed year of service, subject to a minimum of three months and a maximum of 10 months.
The period of notice shall not, however, commence to run during maternity leave or sick leave, provided such sick leave does not exceed three months.
It shall, moreover, be suspended during maternity or sick leave subject to the limits aforesaid; or (ii) where the servant no longer satisfies the conditions laid down in Article 12(2), point (a), subject to the possibility of authorising an exception under that provision.
Should the exception not be authorised, the period of notice referred to in subpoint (i) of this point (c) shall apply.%quot%; 32) Point (b) of Article 48 is deleted, and point (c) is renumbered point (b); 33) in Article 49(1), second subparagraph, the words %quot%Article 88 of%quot% are replaced by %quot%Articles 23 and 24 of Annex IX to%quot%; 34) in Article 50(2), second subparagraph, the words %quot%Article 88 of%quot% are replaced by %quot%Articles 23 and 24 of Annex IX to%quot%; 35) Articles 51 and 52 are replaced by the following: %quot%Article 51 The contracts of auxiliary staff shall be concluded for a fixed period; they shall be renewable.
Article 52 The actual period of employment of auxiliary staff, including any period of renewal, shall not exceed three years or extend beyond 31 December 2007.
Article 68 In the case of servants paid by the month, the remuneration shall be paid no later than the last working day of the month.
Where entitlement to family allowances and the expatriation allowance commences after the date of entering the service, servants shall receive them from the first day of the month in which such entitlement commences.
The period of notice shall not, however, commence to run during maternity leave or sick leave, provided such sick leave does not exceed three months.
However, his contract may be terminated only if he is entitled to an invalidity allowance;%quot%; 44) in Article 78 the following subparagraph is added: %quot%The provisions of this Article shall apply until 31 December 2006, the date from which the staff concerned shall be subject to the conditions laid down according to the procedure referred to in Article 90.%quot%; 45) the existing Title IV becomes Title V and the following Title is inserted: %quot%TITLE IV CONTRACT STAFF CHAPTER 1 GENERAL PROVISIONS Article 79 1.
Each institution shall adopt general implementing provisions governing the use of contract staff in accordance with Article 110 of the Staff Regulations, as necessary. 3.
The types of duties and corresponding function groups shall be as shown in the following table: %gt%TABLE%gt% 3.
CHAPTER 2 RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS Article 81 Article 11 shall apply by analogy.
CHAPTER 3 CONDITIONS OF ENGAGEMENT Article 82 1.
The Office shall ensure the transparency of selection procedures for contract staff. 6.
Each institution shall adopt general provisions on the procedures for engagement of contract staff in accordance with Article 110 of the Staff Regulations, as necessary.
Article 83 Before being engaged, a member of the contract staff shall be medically examined by one of the institution's medical officers in order that the institution may be satisfied that he fulfils the requirements of Article 82(3)(d).
A member of the contract staff whose contract is concluded for a duration of at least one year shall serve a probationary period for the first six months of his period of employment if he is in function group I and the first nine months if he is in any other function group. 2.
Where during his probationary period a member of the contract staff is prevented by sickness or accident from performing his duties for one month or more, the authority referred to in the first paragraph of Article 6 may extend his probationary period by the corresponding length of time. 3.
CHAPTER 4 SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR MEMBERS OF THE CONTRACT STAFF REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE 3A Article 85 1.
The contracts of contract staff referred to in Article 3a may be concluded for a fixed period of at least three months and not more than five years.
The initial contract and the first renewal must be of a total duration of not less than six months for function group I and not less than nine months for the other function groups.
Periods covered by a contract as a member of the contract staff referred to in Article 3b shall not be counted for the purposes of the conclusion or renewal of contracts under this Article. 2.
By way of derogation from the last sentence of the first subparagraph of paragraph 1, the Appointing Authority may decide that only the fourth renewal of a contract for a member of function group I shall be for an indefinite period, provided that the total duration of his engagement for a fixed period does not exceed ten years. 3.
Contract staff in function group IV shall before renewal of a contract for an indefinite period be required to demonstrate the ability to work in a third language among those referred to in Article 314 of the EC Treaty.
Contract staff must have served a probationary period in accordance with Article 84 before renewal of a contract for an indefinite duration.
Contract staff referred to in Article 3a shall only be recruited (i) in grades 13, 14, or 16 for function group IV, (ii) in grades 8, 9 or 10 for function group III, (iii) in grades 4 or 5 for function group II, (iv) in grade 1 for function group I.
Where a member of the contract staff referred to in Article 3a moves to a new post within a function group, he shall not be classified in a lower grade or step than in his former post.
The first paragraph of Article 43 of the Staff Regulations, concerning reports, shall apply by analogy to contract staff referred to in Article 3a engaged for a period of not less than one year. 2.
In the case of contract staff referred to in Article 3a, classification in the next higher grade in the same function group shall be by decision of the authority referred to in the first paragraph of Article 6.
CHAPTER 5 SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR MEMBERS OF THE CONTRACT STAFF REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE 3B Article 88 In the case of contract staff referred to in Article 3b: (a) contracts shall be concluded for a fixed period; they shall be renewable; (b) the actual period of employment within an institution, including any period under renewal, shall not exceed three years.
Contract staff referred to in Article 3b may be recruited to any grade of function groups II, III and IV as referred to in Article 80, taking into account the qualifications and experience of the persons concerned.
Article 90 By way of derogation from the provision of this title, conference interpreters engaged by the European Parliament or engaged by the Commission on behalf of the Community institutions and bodies shall be subject to the conditions laid down in the Agreement of 28 July 1999 between the European Parliament, the Commission and the Court of Justice, on behalf of the institutions, on the one hand, and the associations representing the profession, on the other.
Amendments to that Agreement required by the entry into force of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 723/2004(1) shall be adopted before 31 December 2006 in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 78.
Amendments to that Agreement after 31 December 2006 shall be adopted by agreement between institutions.
CHAPTER 6 WORKING CONDITIONS Article 91 Articles 16 to 18 shall apply by analogy.
CHAPTER 7 REMUNERATION AND EXPENSES Article 92 Articles 19 to 27 shall apply by analogy subject to the amendments set out in Articles 93 and 94.
Article 93 The scale of basic salaries shall be as provided for in the following table: %gt%TABLE%gt% Article 94 Notwithstanding Article 24(3), the installation allowance provided for in paragraph 1 and the resettlement allowance provided for in paragraph 2 of that Article shall not be less than: - EUR 734,76 for a member of the contract staff who is entitled to the household allowance; and - EUR 435,62 for a member of the contract staff who is not entitled to the household allowance.
CHAPTER 8 SOCIAL SECURITY BENEFITS Section A Sickness and accident insurance, social security benefits Article 95 Article 28 shall apply by analogy.
However, Article 72(2) and (2a) of the Staff Regulations shall not apply to a member of the contract staff who has remained in the service of the Community until the age of 63, unless he has been employed for more than 3 years as a member of such staff.
A former member of the contract staff who becomes unemployed when his service with an institution of the Community is terminated, and: (a) who is not in receipt of a retirement pension or invalidity allowance from the Community, (b) whose service is not terminated by resignation or by cancellation of the contract for disciplinary reasons, (c) who has completed a minimum of six months' service, (d) who is resident in a Member State, shall be eligible for a monthly unemployment allowance under the conditions laid down below.
To be eligible for this unemployment allowance, a former member of the contract staff shall: (a) be registered, at his own request, as seeking employment with the employment authorities of the Member State in which he establishes his residence; (b) fulfil the obligations laid down by the law of that Member State for persons in receipt of unemployment benefits under that law; (c) forward every month to the institution to which he belonged, which shall immediately forward it to the Commission, a certificate issued by the competent national employment authority stating whether or not he has fulfilled the obligations and conditions referred to in (a) and (b).
The allowance may be granted or maintained by the Community, even where the national obligations referred to under (b) have not been fulfilled, in cases of illness, accident, maternity, invalidity or a situation recognised as being similar or where the national authority, competent to meet those obligations, has given a dispensation.
These limits shall be adjusted, in the same way as the salary scales set out in Article 66 of the Staff Regulations, in accordance with Article 65 of the Staff Regulations. 4.
The period during which the unemployment allowance is payable to a former member of the contract staff may not be more than 36 months from the date of termination of service and shall in no case exceed the equivalent of one third of the actual length of service completed.
Payment shall be resumed if, before the expiry of that period, the former member of the contract staff again fulfils the said conditions and is not entitled to national unemployment benefit. 5.
A former member of the contract staff who is eligible for the unemployment allowance shall be entitled to the family allowances provided for in Article 67 of the Staff Regulations.
The household allowance shall be calculated on the basis of the unemployment allowance under the conditions laid down in Article 1 of Annex VII to the Staff Regulations.
A former member of the contract staff who is eligible for the unemployment allowance shall be entitled, as provided for in Article 72 of the Staff Regulations, to insurance cover against sickness without having to make any contribution. 6.
The unemployment allowance and family allowances shall be paid by the Commission in euro.
That contribution shall be set at 0,81 % of the basic salary of the person concerned after deducting a standard allowance of EUR 798,77 and without taking account of the correction coefficients provided for in Article 64 of the Staff Regulations.
This Fund shall be common to the institutions and the latter shall pay their contributions to the Commission each month, no later than eight days after the payment of remunerations.
Independently of this report, the Commission may present to the Council proposals for adjusting the contributions provided for in paragraph 7 if this is necessary in the interests of the balance of the scheme.
Article 97 Article 74 of the Staff Regulations, concerning the birth grant, and Article 75 of the Staff Regulations, concerning the assumption of liability by the institution for the costs referred to therein, shall apply by analogy.
Article 98 Article 76 of the Staff Regulations, concerning gifts, loans and advances, shall apply by analogy to contract staff during the term of their contract or after expiry of the contract where, as a result of serious protracted illness contracted, or a disability, or an accident sustained, during his employment, the contract staff member is incapable of working and proves that such illness or accident is not covered by another social security scheme.
Section B Insurance against the risk of invalidity and death Article 99 Contract staff shall be insured in accordance with the following provisions against the risk of death or invalidity occurring during their employment.
Article 100 Where the medical examination made before a member of the contract staff is engaged shows that he is suffering from sickness or invalidity, the authority referred to in the first paragraph of Article 6 may, in so far as risks arising from such sickness or invalidity are concerned, decide to grant him guaranteed benefits in respect of invalidity or death only after a period of five years from the date of his entering the service of the institution.
Article 52 of the Staff Regulations shall apply by analogy to recipients of an invalidity allowance.
The invalidity allowance shall be 70 % of the final basic salary of the member of the contract staff.
However, it shall not be less than the basic monthly salary of a member of the contract staff in function group I, grade 1, step 1.
The invalidity allowance shall be subject to contributions to the pension scheme, calculated on the basis of that allowance. 3.
Where the invalidity of the contract staff member arises from an accident in the course of or in connection with the performance of his duties, from an occupational disease, from a public spirited act or from risking life and limb to save another human being, the invalidity allowance shall not be less than 120 % of the basic monthly salary of a function group I, grade 1, step 1 contract staff member.
Persons entitled to an invalidity allowance shall also be entitled to the family allowances provided for in Article 67 of the Staff Regulations in accordance with Annex VII to the Staff Regulations; the household allowance shall be determined on the basis of the recipient's allowance.
Entitlement to an invalidity allowance shall take effect on the day following that on which the contract staff member's employment is terminated under Articles 47 and 48, which are applicable by analogy. 3.
The institution referred to in Article 40 of Annex VIII to the Staff Regulations may require periodic examinations of the recipient of an invalidity allowance to establish that he still fulfils the conditions for payment of that allowance.
However, if it proves impossible to employ the person concerned in the service of the Communities, the contract may be terminated subject to payment of an amount corresponding to the remuneration that would have been paid during the period of notice and, where applicable, to the compensation for termination of contract provided for in Article 47.
The persons entitled under a deceased contract staff member, as defined in Chapter 4 of Annex VIII to the Staff Regulations, shall be entitled to a survivor's pension as provided for in Articles 104 to 107. 2.
In the event of the death of a former contract staff member in receipt of an invalidity allowance or a former contract staff member who is in receipt of a retirement pension or who leaves the service before reaching 63 years of age and requests that his retirement pension be deferred until the first day of the calendar month following that in which he reached 63 years of age, the persons entitled under the deceased former contract staff member, as defined in Chapter 4 of Annex VIII to the Staff Regulations, shall be entitled to a survivor's pension as provided for in that Annex. 3.
Where the whereabouts of a contract staff member or of a former contract staff member in receipt of an invalidity allowance or retirement pension, or of a former contract staff member who leaves the service before reaching 63 years of age and requests that his retirement pension be deferred until the first day of the calendar month following that in which he reaches 63 years of age, are unknown for more than one year, the provisions of Chapters 5 and 6 of Annex VIII to the Staff Regulations dealing with provisional pensions shall apply by analogy to his spouse and to persons recognised as his dependants.
Article 104 The right to receive payment of pension shall have effect from the first day of the month following that in which death occurs or, where applicable, on the first day of the month following the period during which the deceased's surviving spouse, orphans or dependants receive his emoluments under Article 70 of the Staff Regulations.
Where a contract staff member dies, the amount of the survivor's pension shall be increased to 60 % of the retirement pension which the contract staff member would have been paid if he had qualified, irrespective of length of service or of age, for such pension at the time of death.
A person drawing a survivor's pension shall be entitled, on the conditions laid down in Annex VII to the Staff Regulations, to the family allowances specified in Article 67 of the Staff Regulations.
Where a contract staff member or person entitled to a retirement pension or invalidity allowance dies leaving no spouse entitled to a survivor's pension, the children deemed to be dependent on him shall be entitled to an orphan's pension in accordance with Article 80 of the Staff Regulations. 2.
Where a contract staff member or a person entitled to a retirement pension or invalidity allowance dies but the conditions set out in paragraph 1 are not satisfied, the provisions of the third paragraph of Article 80 of the Staff Regulations shall apply. 4.
In the event of the death of a former member of the contract staff who leaves the service before reaching 63 years of age and requests that his retirement pension be deferred until the first day of the calendar month following that in which he reaches 63 years of age, children deemed to be his dependants in accordance with Article 2 of Annex VII to the Staff Regulations shall be entitled to an orphan's pension on the same terms as those set out respectively in the foregoing paragraphs. 5.
The orphan's pension of a person treated as a dependent child as defined in Article 2(4) of Annex VII to the Staff Regulations may not exceed twice the dependent child allowance.
No orphan's pension shall be payable where a natural parent who has been replaced by an adoptive parent dies. 7.
Orphans shall be entitled to an education allowance in accordance with Article 3 of Annex VII to the Staff Regulations.
Article 107 In the case of divorce or where there is more than one category of survivor who qualifies to claim survivor's pension, such pension shall be apportioned in the manner provided for in Chapter 4 of Annex VIII to the Staff Regulations.
Article 108 The rules relating to ceilings and apportionment set out in Article 81a of the Staff Regulations shall apply by analogy.
Section C Retirement pension and severance grant Article 109 1.
On leaving the service, contract staff shall be entitled to a retirement pension, transfer of the actuarial equivalent or the payment of a severance grant in accordance with Chapter 3 of Title V of, and Annex VIII to, the Staff Regulations.
Where the contract staff member is entitled to a retirement pension, his pension rights shall not cover periods corresponding to contributions paid under Article 112 of these Conditions of Employment. 2.
Article 11(2) and (3) of Annex VIII of the Staff Regulations shall be applicable by analogy to contract staff. 3.
A person who becomes entitled to a retirement pension shall be entitled, if he has been employed for more than three years as a member of the contract staff, to the family allowances provided for in Article 67 of the Staff Regulations; the household allowance shall be calculated on the basis of the recipient's pension.
If a member of the contract staff is appointed an official or temporary servant of the Communities, he shall not receive the grant provided for in Article 109(1).
Any period of service on the contract staff of one the Communities shall be taken into account for the purpose of calculating years of pensionable service as provided for in Annex VIII to the Staff Regulations. 2.
Where the institution has exercised the option provided for in Article 112, the contract staff member's retirement pension rights shall be reduced proportionately in respect of the period in which the sums were withdrawn. 3.
The preceding paragraph shall not apply to a contract staff member who, in the three months following application of the Staff Regulations to him, asks to be allowed to repay such sums plus compound interest at the rate of 3,5 % per year, which may be revised following the procedure laid down in Article 12 of Annex XII to the Staff Regulations.
Section D Funding of the invalidity and life assurance scheme and of the pension scheme Article 111 As regards the funding of the social security scheme provided for in Sections B and C, the provisions of Articles 83 and 83a of the Staff Regulations and Articles 36 and 38 of Annex VIII thereto shall apply by analogy.
Section F Payment of benefits Article 114 1.
Articles 81a and 82 of the Staff Regulations and Article 45 of Annex VIII thereto, concerning the payment of benefits, shall apply by analogy. 2.
Section G: Subrogation in favour of the Community Article 115 The provisions of Article 85a of the Staff Regulations, relating to subrogation in favour of the Community, shall apply by analogy.
CHAPTER 9 RECOVERY OF UNDUE PAYMENT Article 116 The provisions of Article 85 of the Staff Regulations on the recovery of undue payment shall apply.
CHAPTER 10 APPEALS Article 117 The provisions of Title VII of the Staff Regulations on appeals shall apply by analogy.
CHAPTER 11 SPECIAL AND EXCEPTIONAL PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO MEMBERS OF THE CONTRACT STAFF SERVING IN A THIRD COUNTRY Article 118 The provisions of Articles 6 to 16 and 19 to 25 of Annex X to the Staff Regulations shall apply by analogy to contract staff serving in third countries.
However, Article 21 of that Annex shall only apply if the contract is for not less than one year.
CHAPTER 12 TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT Article 119 Articles 47 to 50a shall apply by analogy to contract staff.
In the event of disciplinary proceedings against a contract staff member, the Disciplinary Board referred to in Annex IX to the Staff Regulations and in Article 49 of these Conditions of Employment shall meet with two additional members from the same function group and grade as the contract staff member concerned.
These two additional members shall be appointed according to an ad hoc procedure agreed upon by the authority referred to in the first paragraph of Article 6 of these Conditions of Employment and the Staff Committee.%quot%; 46) the existing Articles 79 and 80 are renumbered and become Articles 120 and 121; 47) existing Article 81 becomes Article 122 and is replaced by the following: %quot%Article 122 Any dispute between the institution and a member of the local staff serving in a third country shall be submitted to an arbitration board on the conditions defined in the arbitration clause contained in the local staff member's contract.%quot%; 48) Title VI is deleted; 49) the existing Title V becomes Title VI and the former Articles 82 and 83 become Articles 123 and 124 respectively; 50) Article 124 is replaced by the following: %quot%Article 124 Articles 1c, 1d, 11, 11a, 12 and 12a, the first paragraph of Article 16, Articles 17, 17a, 19, 22, 22a and 22b, the first and second paragraphs of Article 23 and the second paragraph of Article 25 of the Staff Regulations, concerning the rights and obligations of officials, and Articles 90 and 91 of the Staff Regulations, concerning appeals, shall apply by analogy.%quot%; 51) in Title VII, the existing Articles 99, 100 and 101 are deleted and the following Article is inserted: %quot%Article 125 Without prejudice to the other provisions of the Conditions of Employment, the Annex hereto lays down the transitional provisions applicable to staff engaged under contract covered by these Conditions of Employment.%quot%; 52) in Title VIII the existing Article 102 and 103 become Article 126 and 127 respectively; 53) in new Article 126 the words %quot%Article 103%quot% are replaced by %quot%Article 127%quot%; 54) the following Annex is added: %quot%ANNEX Transitional provisions applicable to the staff covered by the Conditions of Employment of other Servants Article 1 1.
The provisions of Annex XIII to the Staff Regulations shall apply by analogy to other servants employed on 30 April 2004. 2.
For the period from 1 May 2004 to 30 April 2006, in the Conditions of Employment of other servants: (a) in the first indent of point (b) of Article 3, %quot%assistants function group (AST)%quot% is replaced by %quot%categories B and C%quot%; (b) in the second indent of point (b) of Article 3, %quot%the administrators%quot% function group (AD) is replaced by %quot%category A%quot%, %quot%AD 16 or AD 15%quot% is replaced by %quot%A*16 or A*15%quot% and %quot%AD 15 or AD 14%quot% is replaced by %quot%A*15 or A*14%quot%.
In accordance with the Conditions of Employment of other servants, the authority referred to in the first paragraph of Article 6 of the Conditions of Employment shall offer employment of indefinite duration as a member of the contract staff to any person employed by the Communities on 1 May 2004 under a contract of indefinite duration as a local staff member in the European Union or by virtue of national legislation in one of the agencies and entities referred to in Article 3a(1)(b) and (c) of the Conditions of Employment.
The contract concerned shall take effect at the latest on 1 May 2005.
Article 84 of the Conditions of Employment shall not apply to such contract. 2.
Each institution shall adopt general provisions for the implementation of paragraphs 1 and 2 in accordance with Article 110 of the Staff Regulations, as necessary. 4.
Article 4 Fixed-term contracts of temporary staff covered by Article 2(d) of the Conditions of Employment current on 1 May 2004 may be renewed.
Such a request must be submitted at the latest 30 calendar days after the date on which their temporary staff contract ends.%quot% (1) OJ L 124, 27.4.2004, p. 1.
