Annexes I, II and III are replaced by Annexes I, II, III and IV to this Directive.
Exterior rear-view mirrors are grouped in Classes II and III.
Edges of fixing holes or recesses of which the diameter or longest diagonal is less than 12 mm are exempt from the radius requirements of item 2.1.3 provided that they are blunted. 2.1.4.
The attachment device on the vehicle must be so designed that a cylinder with a 50 mm radius, having as its axis the axis, or one of the axes, of pivot or rotation which ensure deflection of the rear-view mirror in the direction of impact concerned, passes through at least part of the surface to which the device is attached. 2.1.5.
The parts of exterior rear-view mirrors referred to in items 2.1.2 and 2.1.3 which are made of a material with a Shore A hardness not exceeding 60 are exempt from the relevant provisions. 2.1.6.
In the case of those parts of interior rear-view mirrors which are made of a material with a Shore A hardness of less than 50 and which are mounted on a rigid support, the requirements of items 2.1.2 and 2.1.3 shall only apply to the support. 2.2.
Interior rear-view mirrors (Class I) The dimensions of the reflecting surface must be such that it is possible to inscribe thereon a rectangle one side of which is 4 cm and the other %quot%a%quot% cm in length, where %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%T0015075%quot%%gt% 2.2.2.
Exterior rear-view mirrors (classes II and III) 2.2.2.1.
The dimensions of the reflecting surface must be such that it is possible to inscribe therein: - a rectangle 4 cm high the base length of which, measured in centimetres, has the value %quot%a%quot%, - a segment which is parallel to the height of the rectangle and the length of which, expressed in centimetres, has the value %quot%b%quot%. 2.2.2.2.
The value of %quot%r%quot% must be not less than: - 1 800 mm for Class II rear-view mirrors, - 1 200 mm for Class I and III rear-view mirrors. 2.3.4.
The value of the normal coefficient of reflection in the %quot%night%quot% position must be not less than 4 %. 2.3.5.
The reflecting surface must retain the characteristics laid down in item 2.3.4 in spite of prolonged exposure to adverse weather conditions in normal use. 2.4.
When a rear-view mirror is adjustable with respect to the base, the test position shall be that in which any pivoting device is least likely to operate, within the limits of adjustment provided by the demander. 2.4.2.2.2.3.
When the rear-view mirror has a device for adjusting its distance from the base, the device must be set in the position in which the distance between the holder and the base is shortest. 2.4.2.2.2.4.
The test consists in allowing the hammer to fall from a height corresponding to a pendulum angle of 60ยบ from the vertical so that the hammer strikes the rear-view mirror at the moment when the pendulum reaches the vertical position. 2.4.2.2.6.
The test load is 25 kg.
In the tests described in item 2.4.2, the pendulum must continue to swing after impact in such a way that the projection of the position assumed by the arm on the plane of release makes an angle of at least 20ยบ with the vertical.
The conditions laid down in item 3.1.1 must be maintained when the vehicle is moving at speeds of up to 80 % of its maximum design speed, but not exceeding 150 km/h. 3.1.2.
Exterior rear-view mirrors fitted on vehicles of categories M2, M3, N2 and N3 must be Class II mirrors and those fitted on vehicles of categories M1 and N1 must be Class II or Class III mirrors. 3.2.
All vehicles in categories M2, M3, N2 and N3 must be fitted with two exterior rear-view mirrors, one on each side of the vehicle. 3.2.4.
This provision shall not apply to exterior rear-view mirrors fitted on the right side of vehicles of categories M2 and M3 in Member States with right-hand rule of the road and on the left side of vehicles of the same categories in Member States with left-hand rule of the road. 3.2.5.
However, if the main glass meets all the requirements for a Class II or III mirror, it is acceptable.
The prescribed exterior rear-view mirror on the driver's side of the vehicle must be so located that an angle of not more than 55ยบ is formed between the vertical longitudinal median plane of the vehicle and the vertical plane passing through the centre of the rear-view mirror and through the centre of the straight line 65 mm long which joins the driver's two ocular points. 3.2.8.
They must be established through windows which have a total light transmission factor of at least 70 % measured perpendicularly to the surface. 3.4.2.
Interior rear-view mirror The field of vision must be such that the driver can see at least a 20 m-wide, flat, horizontal portion of the road centred on the vertical longitudinal median plane of the vehicle and extending from 60 m behind the driver's ocular points (Figure 3) to the horizon. 3.4.2.1.
It is permissible for the field of vision to be reduced by the presence of head restraints and such devices as sun visors, rear windscreen wipers and heating elements, provided that they do not obscure more than 15 % of the prescribed field of vision when projected onto a vertical plane perpendicular to the longitudinal median plane of the vehicle. 3.4.3.
Spectral characteristics of light source and receiver The light source shall consist of a CIE standard source A and associated optics to provide a near-collimated light beam.
Geometrical conditions %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%T0015312%quot%%gt% When an integrating sphere is used in the receiver section, the sphere shall have a minimum diameter of 127 mm (5 in).
This method is applicable for those instruments which are so constructed as to permit calibration at the 100 % point by swinging the receiver to a position directly on the axis of the light source (see figure 1).
It may be desired in some cases (such as when measuring low-reflectivity surfaces) to use an intermediate calibration point (between 0 and 100 % on the scale) with this method.
