Council Regulation (EC) No 469/2001 of 6 March 2001 imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty on imports of certain electronic weighing scales originating in Singapore Council Regulation (EC) No 469/2001 of 6 March 2001 imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty on imports of certain electronic weighing scales originating in Singapore THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, Having regard to Council Regulation (EC) No 384/96 of 22 December 1995 on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the European Community(1), and in particular Article 9 and Article 11 thereof, Having regard to the proposal submitted by the Commission after consulting the Advisory Committee, Whereas: A.
Previous investigations involving Singapore (1) By Regulation (EEC) No 1103/93(2) the Commission imposed a provisional anti-dumping duty on imports into the Community of certain electronic weighing scales originating in Singapore and the Republic of Korea and falling within CN code ex 8423 81 50. (2) In October 1993, by Regulation (EEC) No 2887/93(3), the Council imposed definitive anti-dumping measures on imports of certain electronic weighing scales originating in Singapore and the Republic of Korea.
In 1995 the measures applicable to Singaporean exporting producers were modified by Regulation (EC) No 2937/95(4) which resulted in an increase in the level of the duties as it was established that the Singaporean exporting producers had been absorbing the duties in place. 2.
These measures are also subject to a review which was opened in April 1998(6). (4) On 16 September 1999, the Commission published a Notice in the Official Journal of the European Communities(7), announcing the initiation of an anti-dumping proceeding in accordance with Article 5 of Regulation (EC) No 384/96 (hereinafter referred to as the %quot%basic Regulation%quot%) regarding imports into the Community of certain electronic weighing scales originating in the People's Republic of China, the Republic of Korea and Taiwan.
This investigation was concluded in November 2000, by Council Regulation (EC) No 2605/2000(8), which imposed definitive anti-dumping measures on imports of certain electronic weighing scales originating in those countries. 3.
The request was lodged on behalf of Community producers whose collective output constituted a major proportion of the total Community production of the product concerned. (6) The request was based on the grounds that the expiry of the measures would be likely to result in the continuation or recurrence of dumping and injury to the Community industry.
Verifications were carried out at the premises of the following companies: Exporting producer: - Teraoka Weigh System PTE Ltd, Singapore Community producers: - Bizerba GmbH %amp% Co.
KG, Balingen, Germany - GEC Avery Ltd, (a subsidiary of the General Electric Company, plc), Birmingham, United Kingdom (10) The investigation of continuation and recurrence of dumping covered the period from 1 October 1997 to 30 September 1998 (hereinafter referred to as the %quot%investigation period%quot%).
DUMPING AND LIKELIHOOD OF RECURRENCE OF DUMPING 1.
The Commission's findings are, therefore, based on those established under Article 11(2) relating to the likelihood of continuation and recurrence of injurious dumping should the existing measures be removed. (17) According to Eurostat some 449 REWS from Singapore were imported into the Community during the investigation period as compared to 4500 units in the previous investigation period on which the measures subject to review are based. (18) The sole cooperating Singaporean producer, Teraoka Weigh System PTE Ltd, reported that it exported 315 units to the Community.
Reference to Eurostat indicates that this represents 70 % of the exports to the Community which points to significant non-cooperation. 2.
These increased sales would be likely to materialise from two sources: through the transfer of production capacity, which is relatively mobile, from units related to Singaporean exporting producers in other third country markets back to Singapore; and through a switch in some of the sales from numerous other third country markets to the Community to take advantage of the slightly higher prices on the Community market.
Moreover, the existence of measures in force against Japan reinforces this likelihood. (22) The exporting producer argued that it was unlikely to switch any production back to Singapore which could then be sold to the Community, in particular the production of the units situated in the Community.
Moreover, there is no indication that the relatively high level of prices in Singapore is going to alter in the short term and it is therefore considered reasonable to assume, taking due account of the dumping history for this product, that any significant resumption of exports to the Community would be at prices below those in Singapore. (24) The exporting producer argued that there was no evidence that the sales made to these other third countries by the exporting producer were at dumped levels and in this respect produced calculations for the exports of one model as well as the profit margins of this model to the Community.
In this context, only one exporting producer cooperated in the investigation and during the investigation this party claimed that it was no longer dumping on its sales to the Community and that the measures which apply to its exports should be removed. (26) With respect to the allegation made by the exporting producer that dumping had disappeared and that measures should be repealed, account was taken of the fact that measures were in force during the investigation period and that, therefore, any calculation of dumping could be affected by the existence of these measures, in particular in relation to the volume and prices of these imports to the Community.
During the period set for this investigation the quantity exported by the exporting producer was 315 units.
The non-cooperation of this party did not permit a proper examination of whether this relationship may have affected the prices of these exports in question. (27) Moreover, the exporting producer reported the existence of a related party in the Community which also did not cooperate in this investigation other than to submit some general information about its activities.
It was therefore not possible to establish with any certainty whether this company was directly or indirectly involved in selling the like product in the Community. (28) In addition, the exporting producer based its claim of no dumping on a comparison of the export prices of one model to the Community when compared to the prices of a newer version of that model when sold in Singapore with the latter adjusted by over 20 % to take account of allegedly higher production costs of the model sold in Singapore. (29) In any event, the exporting producer did not produce any evidence that these differences affected the prices charged on the Singaporean market.
An average comparison of the prices of the two models to third countries showed that the newer version commanded a higher price of about 6 %. (30) In these circumstances, it was observed that dumping would only disappear if the claimed adjustment for differences in physical characteristics was granted whereas if it was not, or only granted to the extent of the price difference for the two models concerned to third markets, significant dumping would remain. (31) Thus, the relatively low volume of imports relating to only one model which is in the process of being phased out and which had no equivalent model sold in Singapore, the non-participation in the investigation of related or associated parties in the Community, at least to an extent which extends beyond a normal buyer and seller relationship, leads to the conclusion that a reliable and lasting dumping margin cannot be established for the investigation period. (32) For the same reasons, the claim that measures should be increased is rejected.
A residual dumping margin was therefore determined, by maintaining the previous residual margin of 31,0 %, expressed as a percentage of the cif import price at the Community border.
Conclusion (34) The Article 11(2) review indicates that if measures were removed there would be a likelihood of continuation and/or recurrence of dumping.
A total of nine companies cooperated in the previous investigation but following the restructuring process in the industry only five companies remained in the investigation period.
It has become evident during the investigation that other Community producers have restructured along similar lines. (36) The cooperating Community producers represent 39 % of Community production in the investigation period, and thus qualify as a major proportion of the Community production.
The representativity of Community production supporting the complaint was, therefore, well in excess of 50 %. (37) It should be noted that for the purposes of the above calculation of the representativity of Community production, in accordance with Article 4(1)(a) and (2) of the basic Regulation, any company operating in the Community related to exporting producers in countries found to be dumping, was excluded from the definition of total Community production. 2.
Consumption of REWS on the Community market (38) Consumption in the Community has been calculated using verified sales data provided by the Community industry, figures in the review request (for sales of non-cooperating Community producers) and import volumes obtained via Eurostat.
This improved situation will be of short-term duration and sales volumes are predicted to drop back to normal levels by 2000, fall further to well below normal levels from 2001 before returning to normal again by 2004. (40) An alternative consumption figure was provided by the legal representatives of the exporting producers in Singapore.
Although the importer did not cooperate with the investigation and its relationship with the exporting producer could, therefore, not be conclusively determined, the Commission accepted the import purchase prices as being unaffected by the possible relationship and used them as the best source of information available in accordance with Article 18 of the basic Regulation. 4.
Production, utilisation of capacity and inventories (48) Production of all REWS fell over the period 1994 to 1996, but then increased in line with the euro-effect as explained at recital 39.
The capacity utilisation rate of the Community industry increased by 13 % during the analysis period.
Sales volume (49) Sales of total REWS units made by the Community industry on the Community market fell over the period 1994 to 1996, but then increased in line with the euro-effect as explained at recital 39.
Sales volume in units %gt%TABLE%gt% Sales turnover (50) The sales turnover of total REWS made by the Community industry on the Community market fell over the period 1994 to 1997, but then increased in line with the euro-effect as explained at recital 39.
The development of weighted average prices for sales to unrelated customers during the analysis period was as follows: Development of prices of REWS %gt%TABLE%gt% Sales prices for all ranges decreased between 1994 and the investigation period by 13 %.
Profitability (53) The return on turnover of REWS as a whole rose from low positive levels in 1994 to over 10 % in the investigation period.
The improved figures for 1997 and the investigation period were due to the abovementioned euro effect which gave a temporary boost to sales and, to a lesser extent, the effects of large scale restructuring carried out by the industry as mentioned at recital 35.
The companies' other business lines represent more than 50 % of total company turnover and, therefore, an overall analysis would not necessarily be representative for the product under consideration.
Productivity, employment and wages (55) The table below shows that during the analysis period employment in the Community industry decreased by 32 %.
Productivity per employee %gt%TABLE%gt% (56) Productivity per employee increased by 50 % over the analysis period. (57) No detailed analysis was carried out on wages given the importance of other business lines in the overall companies' activities.
The Commission considers, therefore, that low-priced offers involving imports from Singapore could easily lead to a recurrence of injury should the anti-dumping measures in place be allowed to lapse. (61) The history of anti-dumping investigations involving this product has shown that production is mobile.
We were informed that capacity utilisation was 63 % of the nameplate production and over 100 % of the attainable production levels in the investigation period.
Given the potential for low-priced dumped imports from Singapore should measures be repealed, it can be expected that prices and the Community industry's market share will be eroded further. (67) Sales prices have declined on average by 13,3 % during the period 1994 to the investigation period and it is expected that this trend will continue as the Community industry attempts to maintain its market share. 3.
Conclusion on recurrence of injury (68) In the light of the findings at recitals 59 to 67, it is concluded that the expiry of the measures on these imports is likely to lead to a recurrence of injury as defined by the various indicators used in Article 3(5) of the basic Regulation.
In reaching this conclusion, the Commission has taken into account the fact that the Community market for REWS is susceptible to price pressure as it is dominated by large users. (69) The Commission has taken into account the conclusion that production facilities can be transferred with relative ease between countries which increases available capacity, and recitals 59 to 65 explain the continuing attractiveness of the Community market to Singaporean exporting producers as compared to some of its third country markets. (70) The expiry of the measures, therefore, would be likely to lead to a recurrence of injury to the Community industry, eventually putting at risk the viability of Community production.
COMMUNITY INTEREST 1.
General considerations (71) In accordance with Article 21 of the basic Regulation it was examined whether a prolongation of the anti-dumping duties would be against the interest of the Community as a whole.
Consequently, the timing and nature of the present investigation has allowed an assessment of any negative impact on the parties concerned by the anti-dumping measures imposed. (73) The Commission also considered the effects of anti-dumping duties on REWS imported from Singapore in relation to the specific interests of the Community industry and other interested parties including professional end-users. 2.
It was concluded, however, that the impact would be negligible, particularly for the retail sector where the proportion of costs represented by REWS is very small. (82) It should be recalled, however, that there is a likelihood of recurrence of material injury to the Community industry, which has made great efforts to remain competitive.
A definitive anti-dumping duty is hereby imposed on imports of electronic weighing scales for use in the retail trade which incorporate a digital display of the weight, unit price and price to be paid (whether or not including a means of printing these data), currently classifiable within CN code ex 8423 81 50 (TARIC code 8423 81 50 10 and originating in Singapore. 2.
Done at Brussels, 6 March 2001.
ThalĂŠn (1) OJ L 56, 6.3.1996, p. 1.
