Article 3 This Directive shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
It shall apply from 1 January 2003, unless otherwise specified in the Annex.
Article 4 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 5 March 2002.
For the Commission Loyola De Palacio Vice-President (1) OJ L 144, 15.5.1998, p. 1. (2) OJ L 247, 5.10.1993, p. 19. (3) OJ L 276, 13.10.1998, p. 7.
Where regulations of this Annex do not apply to new ships of less than 24 metres in length, the Administration of the flag State shall ensure that an equivalent safety level for such ships is provided through compliance with national rules.
CHAPTER II-1 CONSTRUCTION - SUBDIVISION AND STABILITY, MACHINERY AND ELECTRICAL INSTALLATIONS PART A GENERAL 1 Definitions relating to Part B (R 2) NEW CLASS B, C AND D AND EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS:. 1.1 Subdivision load line is the waterline used in determining the subdivision of the ship.. 2 Deepest subdivision load line is the waterline which corresponds to the greatest draught permitted by the subdivision requirements which are applicable.. 2 Length of the ship is the length measured between perpendiculars taken at the extremities of the deepest subdivision load line.. 3 Breadth of the ship is the extreme width from outside of frame to outside of frame at or below the deepest subdivision load line.. 4 Draught is the vertical distance from the moulded base line amidships to the subdivision load line in question.. 5 Deadweight is the difference in tonnes between the displacement of a ship in water of a specific gravity of 1,025 at the load waterline corresponding to the assigned summer freeboard and the lightweight of the ship.. 6 Lightweight is the displacement of a ship in tonnes without cargo, fuel, lubricating oil, ballast water, fresh water and feedwater in tanks, consumable stores, and passengers and crew and their effects.. 7 Bulkhead deck is the uppermost deck up to which the transverse watertight bulkheads are carried.. 8 Margin line is a line drawn at least 76 mm below the upper surface of the bulkhead deck at side.. 9 Permeability of a space is the percentage of that space which can be occupied by water.
PART B INTACT STABILITY, SUBDIVISION AND DAMAGE STABILITY 1 Intact stability Resolution A.749 (18) NEW CLASS A, B, C AND D SHIPS OF 24 METRES IN LENGTH AND ABOVE: All classes of new ships of 24 metres in length and above shall comply with the relevant provisions for passenger ships of the Code on Intact Stability as adopted on 4 November 1993 by the IMO at the 18th session of its Assembly through Resolution A.749 (18).
All existing ships of classes A and B having a length of 24 metres and over shall also comply with the additional criteria as given in IMO Resolution A.749(18), paragraph 3.1.2.6 (additional criteria for passenger ships) and paragraph 3.2 (Severe Wind and Rolling Criterion).
This should be supported by evidence to the Commission which confirms that an equivalent level of safety is achieved. 2 Watertight subdivision NEW CLASS B, C AND D AND EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS: Every ship shall be subdivided by bulkheads, which shall be watertight up to the bulkhead deck, into watertight compartments the maximum length of which shall be calculated according to the specific requirements given below.
Every other portion of the internal structure which affects the efficiency of the subdivision of the ship shall be watertight. 3 Floodable length (R 4) NEW CLASS B, C AND D AND EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS:. 1 The floodable length at a given point is the maximum portion of the length of the ship, having its centre at the point in question, which can be flooded, under the assumption for permeability given below, without the ship being submerged beyond the margin line.. 2 In case of a ship not having a continuous bulkhead deck, the floodable length at any point may be determined to an assumed continuous margin line which at no point is less than 76 mm below the top of the deck at side to which the bulkheads concerned and the shell are carried watertight.. 3 Where a portion of an assumed margin line is appreciably below the deck to which bulkheads are carried, the Administration of the flag State may permit a limited relaxation in the watertightness of those portions of the bulkheads which are above the margin line and immediately under the higher deck. 4 Permissible length of compartments (R 6) NEW CLASS B, C AND D AND EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS: The maximum permissible length of a compartment having its centre at any point in the ship's length is obtained from the floodable length by multiplying the latter by an appropriate factor called factor of subdivision. 5 Permeability (R 5) NEW CLASS B, C AND D AND EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS: The definite assumptions referred to in regulation 3 relate to the permeability of the spaces below the margin line.
In determining the floodable length, the assumed average permeability of the spaces below the margin line shall be as indicated in the table in regulation 8.3. 6 Subdivision factor The factor of subdivision shall be: FOR NEW CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS AND EXISTING CLASS B RO-RO PASSENGER SHIPS: 1,0 when the number of persons the ship is certified to carry is less than 400, and 0,5 when the number of persons the ship is certified to carry is 400 or more.
Existing class B ro-ro passenger ships have to comply with this requirement not later than the date of compliance laid down in regulation II-1/B/8-2, paragraph 2.
FOR EXISTING CLASS B NON RO-RO PASSENGER SHIPS: 1,0 7 Special requirements concerning ship subdivision (R 7) NEW CLASS B, C AND D AND EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS:. 1 Where in a portion or portions of a ship the watertight bulkheads are carried to a higher deck than in the remainder of the ship and it is desired to take advantage of this higher extension of the bulkheads in calculating the floodable length, separate margin lines may be used for each such portion of the ship provided that:. 1 the sides of the ship are extended throughout the ship's length to the deck corresponding to the upper margin line and all openings in the shell plating below this deck throughout the length of the ship are treated as being below a margin line, for the purpose of regulation 15; and. 2 the two compartments adjacent to the %quot%step%quot% in the bulkhead deck are each within the permissible length corresponding to their respective margin lines, and, in addition, their combined length does not exceed twice the permissible length based on the lower margin line.. 2 A compartment may exceed the permissible length determined by the rules of regulation 4 provided the combined length of each pair of adjacent compartments to which the compartment in question is common does not exceed either the floodable length or twice the permissible length, whichever is less.. 3 A main transverse bulkhead may be recessed provided that all parts of the recess lie inboard of vertical surfaces on both sides of the ship, situated at a distance from the shell plating equal to one fifth of the breadth of the ship, and measured at right angles to the centreline at the level of the deepest subdivision load line.
Any part of a recess which lies outside these limits shall be dealt with as a step in accordance with paragraph 6.. 4 Where a main transverse bulkhead is recessed or stepped, an equivalent plane bulkhead shall be used in determining the subdivision.. 5 Where a main transverse watertight compartment contains local subdivision and the Administration of the flag State is satisfied that, after any assumed side damage extending over a length of 3,0 metres plus 3 % of the length of the ship or 11 metres, or 10 % of the length of the ship whichever is the less, the whole volume of the main compartment will not be flooded, a proportionate allowance may be made in the permissible length otherwise required for such compartment.
NEW CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS:. 6 A main transverse bulkhead may be stepped provided that it meets one of the following conditions:. 1 the combined length of the two compartments, separated by the bulkhead in question, does not exceed either 90 % of the floodable length or twice the permissible length, except that, in ships having a subdivision factor equal to 1, the combined length of the two compartments in question shall not exceed the permissible length;. 2 additional subdivision is provided in way of the step to maintain the same level of safety as that secured by a plane bulkhead;. 3 the compartment over which the step extends does not exceed the permissible length corresponding to a margin line taken 76 mm below the step.. 7 In ships of 100 metres in length and upwards, one of the main transverse bulkheads abaft the forepeak shall be fitted at a distance from the forward perpendicular which is not greater than the permissible length.. 8 If the distance between two adjacent main transverse bulkheads, or their equivalent plank bulkheads, or the distance between the transverse planes passing through the nearest stepped portions of the bulkheads, is less than 3,0 metres plus 3 % of the length of the ship, or 11,0 metres, or 10 % of the length of the ship, whichever is less, only one of these bulkheads shall be regarded as forming part of the subdivision of the ship.. 9 Where the required subdivision factor is 0,50, the combined length of any two adjacent compartments shall not exceed the floodable length. 8 Stability in damaged conditions (R 8) NEW CLASS B, C AND D AND EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS:. 1.1 Sufficient intact stability shall be provided in all service conditions so as to enable the ship to withstand the final stage of flooding of any one main compartment which is required to be within the floodable length.. 1.2 Where two adjacent main compartments are separated by a bulkhead which is stepped under the conditions of regulation 7.6.1, the intact stability shall be adequate to withstand the flooding of those two adjacent compartments.. 1.3 Where the required factor of subdivision is 0,50, the intact stability shall be adequate to withstand the flooding of any two adjacent compartments.. 2.1 The requirements of subparagraph .1 shall be determined by calculations which are in accordance with paragraphs .3,.4 and.6 and which take into consideration the proportions and design characteristics of the ship and the arrangement and configuration of the damaged compartments.
NEW CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS AND EXISTING CLASS B RO-RO PASSENGER SHIPS AND EXISTING CLASS B NON RO-RO PASSENGER SHIPS, CONSTRUCTED ON OR AFTER 29 APRIL 1990:. 2.3 The stability required in the final condition after damage, and after equalisation where provided, shall be determined as follows:. 2.3.1 The positive residual righting lever curve shall have a minimum range of 15° beyond the angle of equilibrium.
This range may be reduced to a minimum of 10°, in the case where the area under the righting lever curve is that specified in subparagraph .2.3.2 multiplied by the ratio 15/range, where range is expressed in degrees.. 2.3.2 The area under the righting lever curve shall be at least 0,015 m-rad, measured from the angle of equilibrium to the lesser of:. 1 the angle at which progressive flooding occurs;. 2 22° (measured from upright) in the case of one-compartment flooding, or 27° (measured from the upright) in the case of the simultaneous flooding of two adjacent compartments.. 2.3.3 A residual righting lever is to be obtained within the range of positive stability, taking into account the greatest of the following heeling moments:. 1 the crowding of all passengers towards one side;. 2 the launching of all fully loaded davit-launched survival craft on one side;. 3 due to wind pressure; as calculated by the formula: %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% However, in no case is the righting lever to be less than 0,10 metres.. 2.3.4 For the purpose of calculating the heeling moments in paragraph .2.3.3 the following assumptions shall be made:. 1 Moment due to crowding of passengers:. 1.1 four persons per square metre;. 1.2 a mass of 75 kg for each passenger;. 1.3 passengers shall be distributed on available deck areas towards one side of the ship on the decks where assembly stations are located and in such a way that they produce the most adverse heeling moment.. 2 Moment due to launching of all fully loaded davit-launched survival craft on one side:. 2.1 all lifeboats and rescue boats fitted on the side to which the ship has heeled after having sustained damage shall be assumed to be swung out fully loaded and ready for lowering;. 2.2 for lifeboats which are arranged to be launched fully loaded from the stowed position, the maximum heeling moment during launching shall be taken;. 2.3 a fully loaded davit-launched life-raft attached to each davit on the side to which the ship has heeled after having sustained damage shall be assumed to be swung out ready for lowering;. 2.4 persons not in the life-saving appliances which are swung out shall not provide either additional heeling or righting moment;. 2.5 life-saving appliances on the side of the ship opposite to the side to which the ship has heeled shall be assumed to be in a stowed position.. 3 Moments due to wind pressure:. 3.1 class B: a wind pressure of 120 N/m2 to be applied; classes C and D: a wind pressure of 80 N/m2 to be applied;. 3.2 the area applicable shall be the projected lateral area of the ship above the waterline corresponding to the intact condition;. 3.3 the moment arm shall be the vertical distance from a point at one half of the mean draught corresponding to the intact condition to the centre of gravity of the lateral area.. 2.4 When major progressive flooding occurs, that is when it causes a rapid reduction in the righting lever of 0,04 metres or more, the righting lever curve is to be considered as terminated at the angle the progressive flooding occurs and the range and the area referred to in.2.3.1 and.2.3.2 should be measured to that angle.. 2.5 In cases where the progressive flooding is of limited nature that does not continue unabated and causes an acceptably slow reduction in righting lever of less than 0,04 metres, the remainder of the curve shall be partially truncated by assuming that the progressively flooded space is so flooded from the beginning.. 2.6 In intermediate stages of flooding, the maximum righting lever shall be at least 0,05 metres and the range of positive righting levers shall be at least 7.
NEW CLASS B, C AND D AND EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS:. 3 For the purpose of making damaged stability calculations the volume and surface permeabilities shall be as follows: %gt%TABLE%gt% Higher surface permeabilities are to be assumed in respect of spaces which, in the vicinity of the damaged waterplane, contain no substantial quantity of accommodation or machinery and spaces which are not generally occupied by any substantial quantity of cargo or stores.. 4 Assumed extent of damage shall be as follows:. 1 longitudinal extent: 3,0 metres plus 3 % of the length of the ship, or 11,0 metres or 10 % of the length of the ship, whichever is less;. 2 transverse extent (measured inboard from the ship's side, at right angles to the centreline at the level of the deepest subdivision load line): a distance of one fifth of the breadth of the ship; and. 3 vertical extent: from the base line upwards without limit;. 4 if any damage of lesser extent than that indicated in.4.1,.4.2,.4.3 would result in a more severe condition regarding heel or loss of metacentric height, such damage shall be assumed in the calculations.. 5 Unsymmetrical flooding is to be kept to a minimum consistent with efficient arrangements.
For new class B, C and D ships the maximum angle of heel after flooding but before equalisation shall not exceed 15°.
Where cross-flooding fittings are required the time for equalisation shall not exceed 15 minutes.
For the simultaneous flooding of two adjacent compartments, a heel of 12° may be permitted for existing and new class B ships, provided that the factor of subdivision is nowhere greater than 0,50 in that part of the ship that is flooded;. 2b for existing class B non ro-ro passenger ships, constructed before 29 April 1990, in the case of unsymmetrical flooding, the angle shall not exceed 7°, except that in exceptional cases the Administration may allow additional heel due to the unsymmetrical moment, but in no case the final heel shall exceed 15°.. 3 in no case shall the margin line be submerged in the final stage of flooding.
If it is considered that the margin line may become submerged during an intermediate stage of flooding, the Administration of the flag State may require such investigations and arrangements as it considers necessary for the safety of the ship.. 7 The master of the ship shall be supplied with the data necessary to maintain sufficient intact stability under service conditions to enable the ship to withstand the critical damage.
In the case of ships requiring cross-flooding, the master of the ship shall be informed of the conditions of stability on which the calculations of heel are based and be warned that excessive heeling might result should the ship sustain damage when in a less favourable condition.. 8 The data referred to in paragraph.7 to enable the master to maintain sufficient intact stability shall include information which indicates the maximum permissible height of the ship's centre of gravity above keel (KG), or alternatively the minimum permissible metacentric height (GM), for a range of draughts or displacements sufficient to include all service conditions.
In the case where the draught marks are not located where they are easily readable, or operational constraints for a particular trade make it difficult to read the draught marks, then the ship shall also be fitted with a reliable draught indicating system by which the bow and stern draughts can be determined.. 10 On completion of loading of the ship and prior to its departure, the master shall determine the ship's trim and stability and also ascertain and record that the ship is in compliance with stability criteria in the relevant regulations.
However in existing class B ships:. 1 where a sloping loading ramp forms part of the extension of the collision bulkhead above the bulkhead deck, the part of the ramp which is more than 2,3 metres above the bulkhead deck may extend no more than 1,0 metre forward of the forward limits specified in paragraphs .1 and.2;. 2 where the existing ramp does not comply with the requirements for acceptance as an extension to the collision bulkhead and the position of the ramp prevents the siting of such extension within the limits specified in paragraph .1 or paragraph .2, the extension may be sited within a limited distance aft of the aft limit specified in paragraph .1 or paragraph .2.
The extension to the collision bulkhead shall open forward and comply with the requirements of paragraph .3 and shall be so arranged as to preclude the possibility of the ramp causing damage to it in the case of damage to, or detachment of, the ramp.. 5 Ramps not meeting the above requirements shall be disregarded as an extension to the collision bulkhead.. 6 In existing class B ships, the requirements of paragraph .3 and.4 shall apply not later than the date of the first periodical survey after the date referred to in Article 14(1) of this Directive.. 7 An afterpeak bulkhead, and bulkheads dividing the machinery space, from the cargo and passenger spaces forward and aft, shall also be fitted and made watertight up to the bulkhead deck.
The afterpeak bulkhead may, however, be stepped below the bulkhead deck, provided the degree of safety of the ship as regards subdivision is not thereby diminished.. 8 In all cases stern tubes shall be enclosed in watertight spaces.
A ship having spaces which are specially adapted for the accommodation of passengers and the carriage of cargo alternatively may, if owners desire, have one or more additional load lines assigned and marked to correspond with the subdivision draughts which the Administration of the flag State may approve for alternative service conditions.. 2 The subdivision load lines assigned and marked shall be recorded in the Passenger Ship Safety Certificate, and shall be identified by the notation C.1 if there is only one subdivision load line.
If there is more than one subdivision load line, the alternative conditions shall be identified by the notations C.2, C.3, C.4 etc.(1).. 3 The freeboard corresponding to each of these load lines shall be measured at the same position and from the same deck line as the freeboards determined in accordance with the International Convention on Load Lines in force.. 4 The freeboard corresponding to each approved subdivision load line and the conditions of service for which it is approved, shall be clearly indicated on the Passenger Ship Safety Certificate.. 5 In no case shall any subdivision load line mark be placed above the deepest load line in salt water as determined by the strength of the ship or the International Convention on Load Lines in force.. 6 Whatever may be the position of the subdivision load line marks, a ship shall in no case be loaded so as to submerge the load line mark appropriate to the season and locality as determined in accordance with the International Convention on Load Lines in force.. 7 A ship shall in no case be so loaded that the subdivision load line mark appropriate to the particular voyage and condition of service is submerged. 12 Construction and initial testing of watertight bulkheads, etc. (R 14) NEW CLASS B, C AND D AND EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS:. 1 Each watertight subdivision bulkhead, whether transverse or longitudinal, shall be constructed in such a manner that it shall be capable of supporting, with a proper margin of resistance, the pressure due to the maximum head of water which it might have to sustain in the event of damage to the ship but at least the pressure due to a head of water up to the margin line.
The construction of these bulkheads shall be in accordance with the standards of a recognised organisation.. 2.1 Steps and recesses in bulkheads shall be watertight and as strong as the bulkhead at the place where each occurs.. 2.2 Where frames or beams pass through a watertight deck or bulkhead, such deck or bulkhead shall be made structurally watertight without the use of wood or cement.. 3 Testing main compartments by filling them with water is not compulsory.
However the fitting of this valve on the afterside of the collision bulkhead may be accepted provided that the valve is readily accessible under all service conditions and the space in which it is located is not a cargo space.. 3.3 If the fore peak is divided to hold two different kinds of liquids, the collision bulkhead may be pierced below the margin line by two pipes each of which is fitted as required by paragraph .3.1, provided there is no practical alternative to the fitting of such a second pipe and that, having regard to the additional subdivision provided in the forepeak, the safety of the ship is maintained.. 4 Within spaces containing the main and auxiliary propulsion machinery including boilers serving the needs of propulsion not more than one door apart from the doors to shaft tunnels may be fitted in each main transverse bulkhead.
The hand gear for operating these doors from above the bulkhead deck shall be situated outside the spaces containing the machinery.. 5.1 EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS AND NEW CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS OF LESS THAN 24 METRES IN LENGTH: Watertight doors shall be sliding doors or hinged doors or doors of an equivalent type.
NEW CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS OF 24 METRES IN LENGTH AND OVER: In ships where the total number of watertight doors is not more than two and these doors are situated in the machinery space or in the bulkheads bounding such space, the Administration of the flag State may allow these two doors to be hand-operated only.
NEW CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS OF 24 METRES IN LENGTH AND OVER:. 5.4 Watertight door controls, including hydraulic piping and electric cables, shall be kept as close as practicable to the bulkhead in which the doors are fitted, in order to minimise the likelihood of them being involved in any damage which the ship may sustain.
EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS AND NEW CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS OF LESS THAN 24 METRES IN LENGTH:. 5.6 Watertight doors which do not comply with paragraphs .5.1 to.5.5 shall be closed before the voyage commences, and shall be kept closed during navigation; the time of opening such doors in port and of closing them before the ship leaves port shall be entered in the logbook.
NEW CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS OF LESS THAN 24 METRES IN LENGTH AND EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS:. 6.1 Hand-operated sliding doors may have a horizontal or vertical motion.
When operating a hand gear the time necessary for the complete closure of the door with the vessel upright, shall not exceed 90 seconds.
EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS:. 6.2 Power-operated sliding doors may have a vertical or horizontal motion.
Power-operated sliding doors shall be provided with hand gear workable at the door itself on either side and from an accessible position above the bulkhead deck, with an all round crank motion or some other movement providing the same guarantee of safety and of an approved type.
NEW CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS OF 24 METRES IN LENGTH AND OVER:. 7.1 Each power-operated sliding watertight door:. 1 shall have a vertical or horizontal motion;. 2 shall, subject to paragraph .11, be normally limited to a maximum clear width of 1,2 metres.
The Administration of the flag State may permit larger doors only to the extent considered necessary for the effective operation of the ship provided that other safety measures, including the following, are taken into consideration:. 2.1 special consideration shall be given to the strength of the door and its closing appliances in order to prevent leakages;. 2.2 the door shall be located outside the damage zone B/5;. 2.3 the door shall be kept closed when the ship is at sea, except for limited periods when absolutely necessary as determined by the Administration of the flag State;. 3 shall be fitted with the necessary equipment to open and close the door using electric power, hydraulic power, or any other form of power that is acceptable to the Administration of the flag State;. 4 shall be provided with an individual hand-operated mechanism.
The time necessary for the complete closure of the door, when operated by hand gear, shall not exceed 90 seconds with the ship in upright position;. 5 shall be provided with controls for opening and closing the door by power from both sides of the door and also for closing the door by power from the central operating console at the navigating bridge;. 6 shall be provided with an audible alarm, distinct from any other alarm in the area, which will sound whenever the door is closed remotely by power and which shall sound for at least 5 seconds but no more than 10 seconds before the door begins to move and shall continue sounding until the door is completely closed.
Additionally, in passenger areas and areas of high ambient noise, the Administration of the flag State may require the audible alarm to be supplemented by an intermittent visual signal at the door; and. 7 shall have an approximately uniform rate of closure under power.
These alarms are to be audible and visual and shall be situated on the central operating console at the navigating bridge; or. 2 an independent hydraulic system for each door with each power source consisting of a motor and pump capable of opening and closing the door.
Loss of stored energy indication at each local operating position shall also be provided; or. 3 An independent electrical system and motor for each door with each power source consisting of a motor capable of opening and closing the door.
NEW CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS OF 24 METRES IN LENGTH AND OVER:. 7.5 As far as practicable, electrical equipment and components for watertight doors shall be situated above the bulkhead deck and outside hazardous areas and spaces.. 7.6 The enclosures of electrical components necessarily situated below the bulkhead deck shall provide suitable protection against the ingress of water.. 7.7 Electric power, control, indication and alarm circuits shall be protected against fault in such a way that a failure in one door circuit will not cause a failure in any other door circuit.
The indicating circuit shall be independent of the control circuit for each door.. 8.3 It shall not be possible to open any door remotely from the central control position.
Any door which is opened in accordance with this paragraph shall be ready to be immediately closed.. 9.2 A watertight door may be opened during navigation to permit the passage of passengers or crew, or when work in the immediate vicinity of the door necessitates it being opened.
When it is proposed to fit such doors, the number and the arrangements shall receive the special consideration of the Administration of the flag State.. 11 Portable plates on bulkheads shall not be permitted except in machinery spaces.
These doors need not meet the requirements of paragraph 7.1.4 regarding complete closure by hand-operated gear in 90 seconds.
Additionally, indicators are required on the navigating bridge to show automatically when each door is closed and all door fastenings are secured.. 3 When applying the provisions of this chapter to such a ship, N shall be taken as the maximum number of passengers for which the ship may be certified in accordance with this regulation. 15 Openings in the shell plating below the margin line (R 17) NEW CLASS B, C AND D AND EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS:. 1 The number of openings in the shell plating shall be reduced to the minimum compatible with the design and proper working of the ship.. 2.1The arrangement and efficiency of the means for closing any opening in the shell plating shall be consistent with its intended purpose and the position in which it is fitted.. 2.2 Subject to the requirements of the International Convention of the Load Line in force, no side scuttles shall be fitted in such a position that its sill is below a line drawn parallel to the bulkhead deck at side and having its lowest point 2,5 % of the breadth of the ship above the deepest subdivision load line, or 500 mm, whichever is the greater.. 2.3 All side scuttles the sills of which are below the margin line shall be of such construction as will effectively prevent any person opening them without the consent of the master of the ship.. 2.4 Where in a between-deck, the sills of any of the sidescuttles referred to in paragraph .2.3 are below a line drawn parallel to the bulkhead deck at side and having its lowest point 1,4 metres plus 2,5 % of the breadth of the ship above the water when the ship departs from any port, all the sidescuttles in that between-deck shall be closed watertight and locked before the ship leaves port, and they shall not be opened before the ship arrives at the next port.
In the application of this paragraph the appropriate allowance for fresh water may be made when applicable.. 2.5 Sidescuttles and their deadlights which will not be accessible during navigation shall be closed and secured before the ship leaves port.. 3 The number of scuppers, sanitary discharges and other similar openings in the shell plating shall be reduced to the minimum either by making each discharge serve for as many as possible of the sanitary and other pipes, or in any other satisfactory manner.. 4 All inlets and discharges in the shell plating shall be fitted with efficient and accessible arrangements for preventing the accidental admission of water into the ship.. 4.1 Subject to the requirements of the International Convention on Load Lines in force, and except as provided in paragraph .5, each separate discharge led through the shell plating from spaces below the margin line shall be provided with either one automatic nonreturn valve fitted with a positive means of closing it from above the bulkhead deck or with two automatic nonreturn valves without positive means of closing, provided that the inboard valve is situated above the deepest subdivision load line and is always accessible for examination under service conditions.
Where a valve with positive means of closing is fitted, the operating position above the bulkhead deck shall always be readily accessible and means shall be provided for indicating whether the valve is open or closed.. 4.2 The requirements of the International Convention on Load Lines in force shall apply to discharges led through the shell plating from spaces above the margin line.. 5 Machinery space main and auxiliary sea inlets and discharges in connection with the operation of machinery shall be fitted with readily accessible valves between the pipes and the shell plating or between the pipes and fabricated boxes attached to the shell plating.
All valves which are used as seacocks shall close by clockwise movement of their handwheels.. 2 Discharge taps or valves on the side of the ship for blow-off water from boilers shall be located in easily accessible locations and not beneath deck plating.
All pipes to which this regulation refers shall be of steel or other equivalent material to the satisfaction of the Administration of the flag State.. 7 Gangway, and cargo ports fitted below the margin line shall be of sufficient strength.
The provisions of this paragraph are without prejudice to the provisions of the International Convention on Load Lines in force.. 4 Sidescuttles, gangway, cargo ports and the other means for closing openings in the shell plating above the margin line shall be of efficient design and construction and of sufficient strength having regard to the spaces in which they are fitted and their positions relative to the deepest subdivision load line.. 5 Efficient inside deadlights, so arranged that they can be easily and effectively closed and secured watertight, shall be provided for all sidescuttles to spaces below the first deck above the bulkhead deck. 17 Closure of cargo loading doors (R 20-1) NEW CLASS B, C AND D AND EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS:. 1 The following doors, located above the margin line, shall be closed and locked before the ship proceeds on any voyage, and shall remain closed and locked until the ship is at its next berth:. 1 cargo loading doors in the shell or the boundaries of enclosed superstructures;. 2 bow visors fitted in positions, as indicated in paragraph.1.1;. 3 cargo loading doors in the collision bulkhead;. 4 weathertight ramps forming an alternative closure to those defined in paragraphs .1.1 to.1.3 inclusive.
EXISTING CLASS B RO-RO PASSENGER SHIPS:. 2.1 All accesses from the ro-ro deck that lead to spaces below the bulkhead deck shall be made weathertight and means shall be provided on the navigation bridge, indicating whether the access is open or closed;. 2.2 all such accesses shall be closed before the ship leaves the berth on any voyage and shall remain closed until the ship is at its next berth;. 2.3 notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph .2.2, the Administration of the flag State may permit some accesses to be opened during the voyage but only for a period sufficient to permit through passage and, if required, for the essential working of the ship; and. 2.4 the requirements of paragraph .2.1 shall apply not later than the date of the first periodical survey after the date referred to in paragraph 1 of Article 14 of this Directive. 17-2 Access to ro-ro decks (R 20-3) ALL RO-RO PASSANGER SHIPS: The master, or the designated officer shall ensure that, without the expressed consent of the master or the designated officer, no passengers are allowed access to an enclosed ro-ro deck when the ship is underway. 17-3 Closure of bulkheads on the ro-ro deck (R 20-4) NEW CLASS B, C AND D AND EXISTING CLASS B RO-RO PASSENGER SHIPS:. 1 All transverse and longitudinal bulkheads which are taken into account as effective to confine the seawater accumulated on the ro-ro deck shall be in place and secured before the ship leaves the berth and remain in place and secured until the ship is at its next berth.. 2 Nothwithstanding the requirements of paragraph .1, the Administration of the flag State may permit some accesses within such bulkheads to be opened during the voyage but only for sufficient time to permit through passage and, if required, for the essential working of the ship. 18 Stability information (R 22) NEW CLASS B, C AND D AND EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS:. 1 Every passenger ship, shall be inclined upon its completion and the elements of its stability determined.
The master shall be supplied with such information, approved by the Administration of the flag State, as is necessary to enable him by rapid and simple processes to obtain accurate guidance as to the stability of the ship under varying conditions of service.. 2 Where any alterations are made to a ship so as to affect materially the stability information supplied to the master, amended stability information shall be provided.
If necessary the ship shall be re-inclined.. 3 At periodical intervals not exceeding five years, a lightweight survey shall be carried out to verify any changes in the light ship displacement and longitudinal centre of gravity.
The ship shall be re-inclined whenever, in comparison with the approved stability information, a deviation from the lightship displacement exceeding 2 % or a deviation of the longitudinal centre of gravity exceeding 1 % of the length of the ship is found or anticipated.. 4 The Administration of the flag State may allow the inclining test of an individual ship to be dispensed with provided basic stability data are available from the inclining test of a sister ship and it is shown to the satisfaction of the Administration of the flag State that reliable stability information for the exempted ship can be obtained from such basic data. 19 Damage control plans (R 23) NEW CLASS B, C AND D AND EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS: There shall be permanently exhibited, for the guidance of the officer in charge of the ship, plans showing clearly for each deck and hold the boundaries of the watertight compartments, the openings therein with the means of closure and position of any controls thereof, and the arrangements for the correction of any list due to flooding.
With regard to the construction, the relevant rules of a recognised organisation shall be used. 24 Railings NEW CLASS A, B, C AND D SHIPS CONSTRUCTED ON OR AFTER 1 JANUARY 2003: 1.
On external decks to which passengers are permitted access, and where there is no bulwark of adequate height provided, railings shall be provided of a height of minimum 1100 mm above the deck and of such design and construction as to prevent any passenger from climbing on these railings and from accidentally falling from that deck. 2.
NEW CLASS B AND C SHIPS:. 4 Main propulsion machinery and all auxiliary machinery essential to the propulsion and the safety of the ship shall, as fitted in the ship, be designed to operate when the ship is upright and when inclined at any angle of list up to and including 15° either way under static conditions and 22,5° under dynamic conditions (rolling) either way and simultaneously inclined dynamically (pitching) 7,5° by bow or stern.
The relief valves shall be arranged or provided with means to ensure that discharge from them is so directed as to minimise the possibility of injury to personnel. 3 Bilge pumping arrangement (R 21) NEW CLASS B, C AND D AND EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS:. 1.1 An efficient bilge pumping system shall be provided, capable of pumping from and draining any watertight compartment other than a space permanently appropriated for the carriage of fresh water, water ballast, oil fuel or liquid cargo and for which other efficient means of pumping are provided, under all practical conditions.
Efficient means shall be provided for draining water from insulated holds.. 1.2 Sanitary, ballast and general service pumps may be accepted as independent power bilge pumps if fitted with the necessary connections to the bilge pumping system.. 1.3 All bilge pipes used in or under fuel storage tanks or in boiler or machinery spaces, including spaces in which oil-settling tanks or oil fuel pumping units are situated, shall be of steel or other suitable material.. 1.4 The arrangement of the bilge and ballast pumping system shall be such as to prevent the possibility of water passing from the sea and from water ballast spaces into the cargo and machinery spaces, or from one compartment to another.
If the main propulsion machinery, auxiliary machinery and boilers are in two or more watertight compartments, the pumps available for bilge service shall be distributed as far as is possible throughout these compartments.. 2.3 With the exception of additional pumps which may be provided for peak compartments only, each required bilge pump shall be so arranged as to draw water from any space required to be drained by paragraph .1.1.. 2.4 Each power bilge pump shall be capable of pumping water through the required main bilge pipe at a speed of not less than 2 m/sec.
Where in addition to the main bilge pumping system an emergency bilge pumping system is provided, it shall be independent of the main system and so arranged that a pump is capable of operating on any compartment under flooding condition as specified in paragraph .2.1; in the case only the valves necessary for the operation of the emergency system need be capable of being operated from above the bulkhead deck.. 2.11 All cocks and valves referred to in paragraph .2.10 which can be operated from above the bulkhead deck shall have their controls at their place of operation clearly marked and shall be provided with means to indicate whether they are open or closed. 4 Number and type of bilge pumps (R 21) NEW CLASS B, C AND D AND EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS: %gt%TABLE%gt% The main engine pump may be replaced by one independent power pump.
The main steering system and the auxiliary steering system shall be so arranged that the failure of one of them will not render the other one inoperative.. 2 The main steering gear and rudder stock where fitted shall be:. 2.1 of adequate strength, and capable to steer the ship at maximum service speed ahead, and so designed that they will not be damaged at maximum speed astern;. 2.2 capable of putting the rudder over from 35° on one side to 35° on the other side with the ship at its deepest seagoing draught and running ahead at maximum ahead service speed and, under the same conditions from 35° on either side to 30° on the other side in not more than 28 seconds;. 2.3 operated by power where necessary to meet the requirements of paragraph .2.2.2 and in any case when a rudder stock over 120 mm in diameter in way of the tiller, excluding strengthening for navigation in ice, is required in order to comply with paragraph .2.2.1.. 3 If fitted, the auxiliary steering gear shall be:. 1 of adequate strength and capable of steering the ship at navigable speed and of being brought speedily into action in an emergency;. 2 capable of putting the rudder over from 15° on one side to 15° on the other side in not more than 60 seconds with the ship at its deepest seagoing draught and running ahead at one half of the maximum ahead service speed or 7 knots, whichever is the greater; and. 3 operated by power where necessary to meet the requirements of paragraph .3.2 and in any case where a rudder stock is more than 230 mm in diameter in way of the tiller, excluding strengthening for navigation in ice.
NEW CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS:. 6 Steering gear control shall be provided:. 1 for the main steering gear, both on the navigating bridge and in the steering compartment;. 2 when the main steering gear is arranged in accordance with paragraph .4, by two independent control systems, both operable from the navigating bridge.
Audible and visual alarms shall be given on the navigating bridge and in the machinery space where they can be readily observed; and. 3 a fixed storage tank having sufficient capacity to recharge at least one power actuating system including the reservoir, where the main steering gear is required to be power-operated.
NEW CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS:. 2 Each electric or electro-hydraulic steering system comprising one or more power units shall be served by at least two exclusive circuits fed directly from the main switchboard; however, one of the circuits may be supplied through the emergency switchboard.
NEW CLASS B, C AND D AND EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS:. 3 Short circuit protection and an overload alarm shall be provided for steering gear electric and electro-hydraulic circuits and motors.
Where such an electric motor primarily intended for other services is arranged to power such an auxiliary steering system, the requirements of paragraph .3 may be waived by the Administration of the flag State, if satisfied with the protection arrangement together with the requirements of regulation 6.4.1 and.4.2 applicable to auxiliary steering systems. 8 Ventilating systems in machinery spaces (R 35) NEW CLASS B, C AND D AND EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS: Machinery spaces of category A shall be adequately ventilated so as to ensure that when machinery or boilers therein are operating at full power in all weather conditions including heavy weather, an adequate supply of air is maintained to the spaces for the safety and comfort of personnel and the operation of the machinery. 9 Communication between the navigating bridge and machinery space (R 37) NEW CLASS B, C AND D AND EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS: At least two independent means of communication shall be provided for communication orders from the navigating bridge to the position in the machinery space or in the control room from which the speed and direction of thrust of the propellers are normally controlled: one of these shall be an engine-room telegraph which provides visual indication of the orders and responses both in the machinery space and on the navigating bridge.
Appropriate means of communication shall be provided to any other position from which the speed or direction of thrust of the propellers may be controlled. 10 Engineers' alarm (R 38) NEW CLASS B, C AND D AND EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS: An engineers' alarm shall be provided to be operated from the engine control room or at a manoeuvering platform as appropriate, and shall be clearly audible in the engineers' accommodation, and/or navigating bridge as appropriate. 11 Location of emergency installations (R 39) NEW CLASS B, C AND D AND EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS: Emergency sources of electrical power, fire pumps, bilge pumps except those specifically serving the spaces forward of the collision bulkhead, and fixed fire-extinguishing system required by Chapter II-2 and other emergency installations which are essential for the safety of the ship, except anchor windlasses, shall not be installed forward of the collision bulkhead. 12 Machinery controls (R 31) NEW CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS:. 1 Main and auxiliary machinery essential for the propulsion and the safety of the ship shall be provided with effective means for its operation and control.. 2 Where remote control of propulsion machinery from the navigating bridge is provided and the machinery spaces are intended to be manned, the following shall apply:. 1 the speed, direction of thrust and, if applicable, the pitch of the propeller shall be fully controllable from the navigating bridge under all sailing conditions, including manoeuvring;. 2 the remote control shall be performed, for each independent propeller, by a control device so designed and constructed that its operation does not require particular attention to the operational details of the machinery.
Where multiple propellers are designed to operate simultaneously, they may be controlled by one control device.. 3 the main propulsion machinery shall be provided with an emergency stopping device on the navigating bridge which shall be independent of the navigating bridge control system;. 4 propulsion machinery orders from the navigating bridge shall be indicated in the main machinery control room or at the manoeuvring platform as appropriate;. 5 remote control of the propulsion machinery shall be possible only from one location at a time; at such locations interconnected control positions are permitted.
CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS, CONSTRUCTED ON OR AFTER 1 JANUARY 2003:. 5 The ships shall comply with the requirements of paragraphs .1 to .4 with the following modifications:. 1 paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: %quot%1.
All control systems essential for the propulsion, control and safety of the ship shall be independent or designed such that failure of one system does not degrade the performance of another system%quot%. 2 in the first and second lines of paragraph 2, the words %quot%and the machinery spaces are intended to be manned%quot% are deleted.. 3 the first sentence of paragraph 2.2 is replaced by the following: %quot%.2 the control shall be performed by a single control device for each independent propeller with automatic performance of all associated services including, where necessary, means of preventing overload of the propulsion machinery%quot%.. 4 paragraph 2.4 is replaced by the following: %quot%.4 propulsion machinery orders from the navigation bridge shall be indicated in the main machinery control room and at the manoeuvring platform%quot%.. 5 a new sentence is added at the end of paragraph 2.6 to read as follows: %quot%It shall also be possible to control the auxiliary machinery, essential for the propulsion and safety of the ship, at or near the machinery concerned%quot%; and. 6 paragraphs 2.8, 2.8.1 and 2.8.2 are replaced by the following: %quot%.8 indicators shall be fitted in the navigation bridge, the main machinery control room and at the manoeuvring platform for:. 8.1 propeller speed and direction of rotation in the case of fixed pitch propellers, and. 8.2 propeller speed and pitch position in the case of controllable pitch propellers.%quot% 13 Steam pipe systems (R 33) NEW CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS:. 1 Every steam pipe and every fitting connected thereto through which steam may pass shall be so designed, constructed and installed as to withstand the maximum working stresses to which it may be subjected.. 2 Means shall be provided for draining every steam pipe in which dangerous water hammer action might otherwise occur.. 3 If a steam pipe or fitting may receive steam from any source at a higher pressure than that for which it is designed a suitable reducing valve, relief valve and pressure gauge shall be fitted. 14 Air pressure systems (R 34) NEW CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS:. 1 Means shall be provided to prevent overpressure in any part of compressed air systems and wherever water jackets or casings of air compressors and coolers might be subjected to dangerous overpressure due to leakage into them from air pressure parts.
Suitable pressure relief arrangements shall be provided for all systems.. 2 The main starting air arrangements for main propulsion internal combustion engines shall be adequately protected against the effects of backfiring and internal explosion in the starting air pipes.. 3 All discharge pipes from starting air compressors shall lead directly to the starting air receivers, and all starting pipes from the air receivers to main and auxiliary engines shall be entirely separate from the compressor discharge pipe system.. 4 Provision shall be made to reduce to a minimum the entry of oil into the air pressure systems and to drain these systems. 15 Protection against noise (R 36)(2) NEW CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS: Measures shall be taken to reduce machinery noise in machinery spaces to acceptable levels.
Emergency generator set(s) shall be capable of being readily started in any cold condition likely to be encountered and, in new ships, capable of being started automatically.. 4 The emergency switchboard shall be situated as near as practicable to the emergency source of power.. 5 The emergency source of power required by paragraph .1 shall:. 1 be capable of operating in general for a period of: 12 hours for class B ships (new and existing) 6 hours for class C ships (new) 3 hours for class D ships (new);. 2 in particular, be capable to operate simultaneously the consumers as identified within the following services as required for the class of ships for the times indicated above: (a) the ship's emergency bilge pump and one of the fire pumps; (b) emergency lighting: 1.
in all alleyways, stairways and exits giving access to the assembly or embarkation stations; 3.
in the control stations where radio and main navigating equipment are situated; 5.
as required in regulations II-2/B/16.1.3.7 and II-2/B/6.1.7; 6.
the fire detecting system, and 4.
Any accumulator battery provided shall be replaced at intervals having regards to the specific service life in the ambient conditions that they are subject to in service; and. 2 a portable rechargeable battery operated lamp shall be provided in every crew space alleyway, recreational space and every working space which is normally occupied unless supplementary emergency lighting, as required by paragraph .1 is provided. 5 Precautions against shock, fire and other hazards of electrical origin (R 45) NEW CLASS B, C AND D AND EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS:. 1 Exposed metal parts of electrical machines or equipment which are not intended to be live but which are liable under fault conditions to become live shall be earthed unless the machines or equipment are:. 1 supplied at a voltage not exceeding 50 V direct current or 50 V, root mean square, between conductors; auto-transformers shall not be used for the purpose of achieving this voltage; or. 2 supplied at a voltage not exceeding 250 V by safety isolating transformers supplying only one consuming device; or. 3 constructed in accordance with the principle of double insulation.. 2 All electrical apparatus shall be so constructed and so installed as not to cause injury when handled or touched in the normal manner.. 3 The sides and the rear and, where necessary, the front of switchboards shall be suitably guarded.
Where necessary, non-conducting mats or gratings shall be provided at the front and rear of the switchboard.. 4 In distribution systems with no connection to earth, a device capable of monitoring the insulation level to earth and giving an audible or visual indication of abnormally low insulation values shall be provided.. 5.1 All metal sheaths and armour of cables shall be electrically continuous and shall be earthed.. 5.2 All electrical cables and wiring external to equipment shall be at least of a flame-retarding type and shall be so installed as not to impair their original flame-retarding properties.
In new and existing ro-ro passenger ships, cabling for emergency alarms and public address systems installed on or after the date referred to in Article 14(1) of this Directive shall be approved by the Administration of the flag State having regard to the recommendations developed by the IMO.
NEW CLASS B, C AND D AND EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS:. 7.1 Each separate circuit shall be protected against short circuit and against overload, except as permitted in regulations II-1/C/6 and II-1/C/7.
NEW CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS:. 7.2 Lighting fittings shall be so arranged as to prevent temperature rises which could damage the cables and wiring, and to prevent surrounding material from becoming excessively hot.. 8.1 Accumulator batteries shall be suitably housed, and compartments used primarily for their accommodation shall be properly constructed and efficiently ventilated.. 8.2 Electrical or other equipment which may constitute a source of ignition of flammable vapours shall not be permitted in these compartments.. 9 Distribution systems shall be so arranged that fire in any main vertical zone, as is defined in regulation II-2/A/2.9, will not interfere with services essential for safety in any other such zone.
PART E ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR PERIODICALLY UNATTENDED MACHINERY SPACES Special consideration (R 54) NEW CLASS B, C AND D AND EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS: All new ships of class B, C and D and existing class B ships shall be specially considered by the Administration of the flag State as to whether or not their machinery spaces may be periodically unattended and if so whether additional requirements to those stipulated in these regulations are necessary to achieve equivalent safety to that of normally attended machinery spaces. 1 General (R 46) NEW CLASS B, C AND D AND EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS:. 1 The arrangements provided shall be such as to ensure that the safety of the ship in all sailing conditions, including manoeuvering, is equivalent to that of a ship having the machinery spaces manned.. 2 Measures shall be taken to ensure that the equipment is functioning in a reliable manner and that satisfactory arrangements are made for regular inspections and routine tests to ensure continuous reliable operation.. 3 Every ship shall be provided with documentary evidence of its fitness to operate with periodically unattended machinery spaces. 2 Fire precautions (R 47) NEW CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS:. 1 Means shall be provided to detect and give alarms at an early stage in case of fires:. 1 in boiler air supply casings and exhausts (uptakes); and. 2 in scavenging air belts of propulsion machinery, unless it is considered to be unnecessary in a particular case.. 2 Internal combustion engines of 2250 kW and above or having cylinders of more than 300 mm bore shall be provided with crankcase oil mist detectors or engine bearing temperature monitors or equivalent devices. 3 Protection against flooding (R 48) NEW CLASS B, C AND D AND EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS:. 1 Bilge wells in periodically unattended machinery spaces shall be located and monitored in such a way that the accumulation of liquids is detected at normal angles of trim and heel, and shall be large enough to accommodate easily the normal drainage during the unattended period.. 2 Where the bilge pumps are capable of being started automatically, means shall be provided to indicate when the influx of liquid is greater than the pump capacity or when the pump is operating more frequently than would normally be expected.
Where automatically controlled bilge pumps are provided, special attention shall be given to oil pollution prevention requirements.. 3 The location of the controls of any valve serving a sea inlet, a discharge below the waterline or a bilge injection system shall be so sited as to allow adequate time for operation in case of influx of water to the space, having regard to the time likely to be required in order to reach and operate such controls.
If the level to which the space could become flooded with the ship in the fully loaded condition so requires, arrangements shall be made to operate the controls from a position above such level. 4 Control of propulsion machinery from the navigating bridge (R 49) NEW CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS:. 1 Under all sailing conditions, including manoeuvring, the speed, direction of thrust and, if applicable, the pitch of the propeller shall be fully controllable from the navigating bridge.. 1 Such remote control shall be performed by a separate control device for each independent propeller, with automatic performance of all associated services, including, where necessary, means of preventing overload of the propulsion machinery.. 2 The main propulsion machinery shall be provided with an emergency stopping device on the navigating bridge which shall be independent of the navigating bridge control system.. 2 Propulsion machinery orders from the navigating bridge shall be indicated in the main machinery control room or at the propulsion machinery control position as appropriate.. 3 Remote control of the propulsion machinery shall be possible only from one location at a time; at such locations interconnected control positions are permitted.
An alarm shall be provided to indicate low starting air pressure set at a level which still permits starting operations of the propulsion machinery. 5 Communication (R 50) NEW AND EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS AND NEW CLASS C AND D SHIPS OF 24 METRES IN LENGTH AND ABOVE: A reliable means of vocal communication shall be provided between the main machinery control room or the propulsion machinery control position as appropriate, the navigating bridge and the engineer officers' accommodation. 6 Alarm system (R 51) NEW CLASS B, C AND D AND EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS:. 1 An alarm system shall be provided indicating any fault requiring attention and shall:. 1 be capable of sounding an audible alarm in the main machinery control room or at the propulsion machinery control position, and indicate visually each separate alarm function at a suitable position;. 2 have a connection to the engineers' public rooms and to each of the engineers' cabins through a selector switch, to ensure connection to a least one of those cabins.
Alternative arrangements may be permitted if they are considered to be equivalents;. 3 activate an audible and visual alarm on the navigating bridge for any situation which requires action by or attention of the officer on watch;. 4 as far as is practicable be designed on the fail-to-safety principle; and. 5 activate the engineers' alarm required by regulation II-1/C/10, if an alarm function has not received attention locally within a limited time.. 2.1 The alarm system shall be continuously powered and shall have an automatic changeover to a stand-by power supply in case of loss of normal power supply.. 2.2 Failure of the normal power supply of the alarm system shall be indicated by an alarm.. 3.1 The alarm system shall be able to indicate at the same time more than one fault and the acceptance of any alarm shall not inhibit another alarm.. 3.2 Acceptance at the position referred to in paragraph .1 of any alarm condition shall be indicated at the positions where it was shown.
Automatic machinery safety shut down and slow down controls should be separated from the alarm installation. 8 Special requirements for machinery, boiler and electrical installations (R 53) NEW CLASS B, C AND D AND EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS:. 1 The main source of electrical power shall comply with the following:. 1 where the electrical power can normally be supplied by one generator, suitable load-shedding arrangements shall be provided to ensure the integrity of supplies to services required for propulsion and steering as well as the safety of the ship.
In the case of loss of the generator in operation, adequate provision shall be made for automatic starting and connecting to the main switchboard of a stand-by generator of sufficient capacity to permit propulsion and steering and to ensure the safety of the ship with automatic restarting of the essential auxiliaries including, where necessary, sequential operations;. 2 if the electrical power is normally supplied by more than one generator simultaneously in parallel operation, provision shall be made, for instance by load shedding, to ensure that, in case of loss of one of these generating sets, the remaining ones are kept in operation without overload to permit propulsion and steering, and to ensure the safety of the ship.. 2 Where stand-by machines are required for other auxiliary machinery essential to propulsion, automatic changeover devices shall be provided. 9 Automatic control and alarm system (R 53.4) NEW CLASS B, C AND D AND EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS:. 1 The control system shall be such that the services needed for the operation of the main propulsion machinery and its auxiliaries are ensured through the necessary automatic arrangements.. 2 An alarm shall be given on the automatic changeover.. 3 An alarm system complying with regulation 6 shall be provided for all important pressures, temperatures and fluid levels and other essential parameters.. 4 A centralised control position shall be arranged with the necessary alarm panels and instrumentation indicating any alarm.. 5 Means shall be provided to keep the starting air pressure at the required level where internal combustion engines essential for main propulsion are started by compressed air.
CHAPTER II-2 FIRE PROTECTION, FIRE DETECTION AND FIRE EXTINCTION PART A GENERAL 1 Basic principles (R 2) NEW CLASS B, C AND D AND EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS:. 1 The fire safety objectives of this chapter are to:. 1 prevent the occurrence of fire and explosion;. 2 reduce the risk to life caused by fire;. 3 reduce the risk of damage caused by fire to the ship, its cargo and the environment;. 4 contain, control and suppress fire and explosion in the compartment of origin; and. 5 provide adequate and readily accessible means of escape for passengers and crew.. 2 In order to achieve the fire objectives set out in paragraph .1 the following basic principles underlie the regulations in this chapter and are embodied in the regulations as appropriate, having regard to the type of ships and the potential fire hazard involved:. 1 division of ship into main vertical zones by thermal and structural boundaries;. 2 separation of accommodation spaces from the remainder of the ship by thermal and structural boundaries;. 3 restricted use of combustible materials;. 4 detection of any fire in the zone of origin;. 5 containment and extinction of any fire in the space of origin;. 6 protection of means of escape or access for fire-fighting;. 7 ready availability of fire-extinguishing appliances;. 8 minimisation of possible ignition of flammable cargo vapour.. 3 The fire safety objectives set out in paragraph 1 above shall be achieved by ensuring compliance with the prescriptive requirements specified in this chapter or by alternative design and arrangements which comply with Part F of the revised Chapter II-2 of SOLAS 1974, which applies to ships constructed on or after 1 January 2003.
A ship shall be considered to meet the functional requirements set out in paragraph .2 and to achieve the fire safety objectives set out in paragraph .1 when either:. 1 the ship's designs and arrangements, as a whole, complies with the relevant prescriptive requirements in this chapter;. 2 the ship's designs and arrangements, as a whole, have been reviewed and approved in accordance with Part F of the revised Chapter II-2 of SOLAS 1974, which applies to ships constructed on or after 1 January 2003;. 3 part(s) of the ship's designs and arrangements have been reviewed and approved in accordance with the above mentioned Part F of the revised SOLAS Chapter II-2 and the remaining parts of the ship comply with the relevant prescriptive requirements of this chapter.. 4 All ships which undergo repairs, alterations, modifications and outfitting related thereto shall continue to comply with at least the requirements previously applicable to these ships.
EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS:. 5 Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph .4, existing class B ships carrying more than 36 passengers when undergoing repairs, alterations, modifications and outfitting related thereto shall comply with the following:. 1 all materials introduced to these ships shall comply with the requirements with regard to material applicable to new class B ships; and. 2 all repairs, alterations, modifications and outfitting related thereto involving the replacement of material of 50 tonnes or above, other than that required by regulation II-2/B/16, shall comply with the requirements applicable to new class B ships. 2 Definitions (R 3) NEW CLASS B, C AND D AND EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS:. 1 Non-combustible material is a material which neither burns nor gives off flammable vapours in sufficient quantity for self-ignition when heated to approximately 750 °C, this being determined by a fire test in accordance with the IMO Resolution A.799 (19) %quot%Revised recommendation on test methods for qualifying marine construction materials as non-combustible%quot%.
The test methods shall be in accordance with the Fire Test Procedures Code.. 3 %quot%A%quot% class divisions are those divisions formed by bulkheads and decks which comply with the following:. 1 they shall be constructed of steel or other equivalent material;. 2 they shall be suitably stiffened;. 3 they shall be so constructed as to be capable of preventing the passage of smoke and flame to the end of the one-hour standard fire test;. 4 %gt%TABLE%gt%.5 The Administration of the flag State shall require a test of a prototype bulkhead or deck to ensure that it meets the above requirements for integrity and temperature rise in accordance with the IMO Resolution A.754 (18).
For class B, C and D ships, constructed on or after 1 January 2003 %quot%IMO Resolution A.754 (18)%quot% shall read %quot%Fire Test Procedures Code%quot%.. 4 %quot%B%quot% class divisions are those divisions formed by bulkheads, decks, ceilings or linings which comply with the following:. 1 they shall be so constructed as to be capable of preventing the passage of flame to the end of the first half hour of the standard fire test;. 2 %gt%TABLE%gt%.3 they shall be constructed of approved non-combustible materials and all materials entering into the construction and erection of %quot%B%quot% class divisions shall be non-combustible, with the exception that combustible veneers may be permitted provided they meet other requirements of this chapter;. 4 the Administration of the flag State shall require a test of a prototype division to ensure that it meets the above requirements for integrity and temperature rise in accordance with IMO Resolution A.754 (18).
For class B, C and D ships, constructed on or after 1 January 2003 %quot%IMO Resolution 754 (18)%quot% shall read %quot%Fire Test Procedures Code%quot%.. 5 %quot%C%quot% class divisions are divisions constructed of approved non-combustible materials.
Combustible veneers are permitted provided they meet other requirements of this chapter.. 6 Continuous %quot%B%quot% class ceilings or linings are those %quot%B%quot% class ceilings or linings which terminate only at an %quot%A%quot% or %quot%B%quot% class division.. 7 Steel or other equivalent material.
Special category spaces may be accommodated on more than one deck provided that the total overall clear height for vehicles does not exceed 10 metres.. 19.1 Machinery spaces of category A are those spaces and trunks to such spaces which contain:. 1 internal combustion machinery used for main propulsion; or. 2 internal combustion machinery used for purposes other than main propulsion where such machinery has in the aggregate a total power output of not less than 375 kW; or. 3 any oil-fired boiler or oil fuel unit.. 19.2 Machinery spaces are all machinery spaces of category A and all other spaces containing propelling machinery, boilers, oil fuel units, steam and internal combustion engines, generators and major electrical machinery, oil filling stations, refrigerating, stabilising, ventilation and air conditioning machinery, and similar spaces, and trunks to such spaces.. 20 Oil fuel unit is the equipment used for the preparation of oil fuel for delivery to an oil-fired boiler, or equipment used for the preparation for delivery of heated oil to an internal combustion engine, and includes any oil pressure pumps, filters and heaters dealing with oil at a pressure of more than 0,18 N/mm2.. 21 Control stations are those spaces in which the ship's radio or main navigating equipment or the emergency source of power is located or where the fire recording or fire control equipment is centralised.. 21.1 Central control station is a control station in which the following control and indicator functions are centralised:. 1 fixed fire detection and alarm systems;. 2 automatic sprinklers, fire detection and alarm systems;. 3 fire door indicator panels;. 4 fire doors closures;. 5 watertight door indicator panels;. 6 watertight door closures;. 7 ventilation fans;. 8 general/fire alarms;. 9 communication systems including telephones; and. 10 microphones to public address systems.. 21.2 Continuously manned central control station is a central control station which is continuously manned by a responsible member of the crew.. 22 Rooms containing furniture and furnishings of restricted fire risk are, for the purpose of regulation II-2/B/4, those rooms containing furniture and furnishings of restricted fire risk (whether cabins, public spaces, offices and other types of accommodation) in which:. 1 all case furniture such as desks, wardrobes, dressing tables, bureaux, dressers, is constructed entirely of approved non-combustible materials, except that a combustible veneer not exceeding 2 mm may be used on the working surface of such articles;. 2 all free-standing furniture such as chairs, sofas, tables, is constructed with frames of non-combustible materials;. 3 all draperies, curtains and other suspended textile materials have qualities of resistance to the propagation of flame not inferior to those of wool of mass 0,8 kg/m2, in accordance with IMO Resolution A.471 (XII) and its amendments adopted by Resolution A.563 (14).
FOR CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS, CONSTRUCTED ON OR AFTER 1 JANUARY 2003. 7 all bedding components have qualities of resistance to the ignition and propagation of flame, this being determined in accordance with the Fire Test Procedures Code.. 23 Ro-ro passenger ship means a passenger ship with ro-ro cargo spaces or special category spaces as defined in this regulation.. 24 Fire Test Procedures Code means the International Code for Application of Fire Test Procedures, as adopted by the Maritime Safety Committee of IMO by Resolution MSC 61 (67), as amended by IMO.. 25 Fire Safety Systems Code means the International Code for Fire Safety Systems as adopted by the Maritime Safety Committee of IMO by Resolution MSC.98 (73), as may be amended by IMO, provided that such amendments are adopted, brought into force and take effect in accordance with the provisions of article VIII of the present SOLAS Convention concerning the amendment procedures applicable to the annex other than Chapter I thereof.. 26 Flashpoint is the temperature in degrees Celsius (closed cup test) at which a product will give off enough flammable vapour to be ignited, as determined by an approved flashpoint apparatus.. 27 Prescriptive requirements mean the constructive characteristics, limiting dimensions or fire safety systems specified in this chapter. 3 Fire pumps, fire mains, hydrants, hoses and nozzles (R 4) NEW CLASS B, C AND D AND EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS:. 1.1 Every ship shall be provided with fire pumps, fire mains, hydrants, hoses and nozzles complying as applicable with the requirements of this regulation.
NEW CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS, CONSTRUCTED BEFORE 1 JANUARY 2003:. 1.2 Where more than one independent fire pump is required, isolating valves to separate the section of the fire main within the machinery space containing the main fire pump or pumps from the rest of the fire main shall be fitted in an easily accessible and tenable position outside this machinery space.
NEW CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS, CONSTRUCTED ON OR AFTER 1 JANUARY 2003:. 1.3 Isolating valves to separate the section of the fire main within the machinery space containing the main fire pump or pumps from the rest of the fire main shall be fitted in an easily accessible and tenable position outside the machinery spaces.
The pipes shall have substantial wall thickness, but in no case less than 11 mm and shall be welded except for the flanged connection to the sea inlet valve.
ALL NEW AND EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS AND NEW CLASS C AND D SHIPS OF 24 METRES IN LENGTH AND ABOVE:. 2 Capacity of fire pumps. 1 The required fire pumps shall be capable of delivering for fire-fighting purposes a quantity of water, at the pressure specified in paragraph .4.2 not less than two thirds of the quantity required to be dealt with by the bilge pumps when employed for bilge pumping.. 2 In every ship which is required by this regulation to be provided with more than one power fire pump, each of the required fire pumps shall have a capacity not less than 80 % of the total required capacity divided by the minimum number of required fire pumps but in any case not less than 25 m3/h and each such pump shall in any event be capable of delivering at least the two required jets of water.
Such an independently driven, power operated emergency fire pump shall comply with the provisions of the Fire Safety Systems Code for ships constructed on or after 1 January 2003.. 4 In new class B ships certified to carry more than 250 passengers, the arrangements for the ready availability of water supply shall be such that at least one effective jet of water is immediately available from any hydrant in an interior location and so as to ensure the continuation of the output of water by the automatic starting of a required fire pump.. 5 In ships with a periodically unattended machinery space or when only one person is required on watch, there shall be immediate water delivery from the fire main system at a suitable pressure, either by remote starting of one of the main fire pumps with remote starting from the navigating bridge and fire control station, if any, or permanent pressurisation of the fire main system by one of the main fire pumps.. 6 The delivery valve of each fire pump shall be fitted with a non-return valve.. 4 Diameter of and pressure in the fire mains. 1 The diameter of the fire main and water service pipes shall be sufficient for the effective distribution of the maximum required discharge from two fire pumps operating simultaneously.. 2 %gt%TABLE%gt%.3 The maximum pressure at any hydrant shall not exceed that at which the effective control of a fire hose can be demonstrated.. 5 Number and position of hydrants. 1 The number and position of hydrants shall be such that at least two jets of water not emanating from the same hydrant, one of which shall be from a single length of hose, may reach any part of the ship normally accessible to the passengers or crew while the ship is being navigated and any part of any cargo space when empty, any ro-ro cargo space or any special category space in which latter case the two jets shall reach any part of such space, each from a single length of hose.
Furthermore, such hydrants shall be positioned near the accesses to the protected spaces.. 2 In the accommodation, service and machinery spaces the number and position of the hydrants shall be such that the requirements of paragraph .5.1 may be complied with when all watertight doors and all doors in main vertical zone bulkheads are closed.. 3 Where access is provided to a machinery space at a low level from an adjacent shaft tunnel, two hydrants shall be provided external to, but near the entrance to that machinery space.
Additionally, in interior locations in ships carrying more than 36 passengers fire hoses shall be permanently connected to the hydrants.. 2 There shall be at least one fire hose for each of the hydrants required by paragraph .5.
The length of a fire hose should be restricted to not more than 20 metres on deck and in superstructures and to 15 metres in machinery spaces and on smaller ships respectively to 15 metres and 10 metres.. 8 Nozzles. 1.1 For the purposes of this chapter, standard nozzle sizes shall be 12 mm, 16 mm and 19 mm or as near thereto as possible.
In cases where other systems are used - such as fog systems - different diameter nozzles may be permitted.. 1.2 All nozzles shall be of an approved dual-purpose type (i.e., spray/jet type), and shall have a shutoff facility.. 2 For accommodation and service spaces, a nozzle size greater than 12 mm need not be used,. 3 For machinery spaces and exterior locations, the nozzle size shall be such as to obtain the maximum discharge possible from two jets at the pressure mentioned in paragraph .4 from the smallest pump, provided that a nozzle size greater than 19 mm need not be used.
Such fire pump shall be capable, when discharging the maximum amount referred to above through fire hydrants with nozzles of 12 or 16 or 19 mm, of maintaining at any hydrant minimum pressures as required in class B ships.. 2 Every ship carrying over 250 passengers shall be provided with an additional fire pump which shall be permanently connected to the fire main.
Such pump shall be capable of delivering at least one jet of water from any fire hydrants provided in the ship maintaining a pressure of at least 0,3 N/mm2.. 3 Sanitary, ballast, bilge or general service pumps may be accepted as fire pumps.. 4 Every ship shall be provided with a fire main having a diameter sufficient for the effective distribution of the maximum discharge given above.
Suitable provision shall be made to prevent inadvertent admission of the medium to any space.. 2 The piping for the distribution of fire-extinguishing medium shall be arranged and discharge nozzles so positioned that a uniform distribution of medium is obtained.. 3 Means shall be provided to close from outside the protected spaces all openings which may admit air to or allow gas to escape from the protected space.. 4 Means shall be provided for automatically giving audible warning of the release of fire-extinguishing medium into any space in which personnel normally work or to which they have access.
The alarm shall operate for a suitable period before the medium is released.. 5 The means of control of any fixed gas fire-extinguishing system shall be readily accessible and simple to operate and shall be grouped together in as few locations as possible at positions not likely to be cut off by a fire in a protected space.
At each location there shall be clear instructions relating to the operation of the system having regard to the safety of personnel.. 6 Automatic release of fire-extinguishing medium shall not be permitted, except as permitted in respect of local automatically operated units fitted, in addition to and independent of any required fixed fire-extinguishing system, in machinery spaces over equipment having a high fire risk or in enclosed areas of high fire risk within machinery spaces.. 7 Where the quantity of extinguishing medium is required to protect more than one space, the quantity of medium available need not be more than the largest quantity required for any one space so protected.. 8 Except as otherwise permitted, pressure containers required for the storage of fire-extinguishing medium, shall be located outside protected spaces in accordance with paragraph.1.11.. 9 Means shall be provided for the crew or shore personnel to safely check the quantity of medium in the containers.. 10 Containers for the storage of fire extinguishing medium and associated pressure components shall be designed to appropriate codes of practice having regard to their locations and maximum ambient temperatures expected in service.. 11 When the fire-extinguishing medium is stored outside a protected space, it shall be stored in a room which shall be situated in a safe and readily accessible position and shall be effectively ventilated.
For the purpose of application of the tables for fire integrity of bulkheads and decks in regulations II-2/B/4 or II-2/B/5, as applicable, such storage rooms shall be treated as control stations.. 12 The use of a fire-extinguishing medium, which either by itself or under expected conditions of use gives off toxic gases in such quantities as to endanger persons or gives off gases which are harmful to the environment, in fire-extinguishing systems on board new ships and in such new installations on board existing ships, is not permitted.
NEW CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS, CONSTRUCTED ON OR AFTER 1 JANUARY 2003:. 13 Fixed gas fire-extinguishing systems shall comply with the provisions of the Fire Safety Systems Code.. 14 Means shall be provided to close from outside the protected space all openings which may admit air to or allow gas escape from the protected space.. 15 When the fire-extinguishing medium is stored outside a protected space, it shall be stored in a room which is located behind the forward collision bulkhead and is used for no other purposes.
If the storage place is located below deck, it shall be located no more than one deck below the open deck and shall be directly accessible by a stairway or ladder from the open deck.
Spaces which are located below deck or spaces where access from the open deck is not provided shall be fitted with a mechanical ventilation system designed to take exhaust air from the bottom of the space and shall be sized to provide at least 6 air changes per hour.
If the box containing the controls is to be locked, a key to the box shall be in a break-glass type enclosure conspicuously located adjacent to the box.. 5 The Administration of the flag State shall ensure that the spaces in which the CO2 batteries are located will be properly arranged as regards their access, ventilation and communication equipment.
NEW CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS, CONSTRUCTED ON OR AFTER 1 JANUARY 2003:. 6 Carbon dioxide systems shall comply with the provisions of the Fire Safety Systems Code.. 7 The Administration of the flag State shall ensure that the spaces in which the CO2 batteries are located will be properly arranged as regards their access, ventilation and communication equipment.
It shall take the necessary safety measures regarding the construction, installation, marking, filling and testing of CO2, cylinders piping and fittings and for control and alarm equipment for such installation.. 3 Fixed low-expansion foam fire-extinguishing systems in machinery spaces (R 8) NEW CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS, CONSTRUCTED BEFORE 1 JANUARY 2003 AND EXISTING B CLASS SHIPS:. 1 Where in any machinery space a fixed low-expansion foam fire-extinguishing system is fitted in addition to the requirements of regulation 6, such system shall be capable of discharging through fixed discharge outlets in not more than five minutes a quantity of foam sufficient to cover to a depth of 150 mm the largest single area over which oil fuel is liable to spread.
NEW CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS, CONSTRUCTED ON OR AFTER 1 JANUARY 2003:. 3 Fixed low-expansion foam fire-extinguishing systems in machinery spaces shall comply with the provisions of the Fire Safety Systems Code.. 4 Fixed high-expansion foam fire-extinguishing systems in machinery spaces (R 9) NEW CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS, CONSTRUCTED BEFORE 1 JANUARY 2003 AND EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS:. 1 Any required fixed high-expansion foam system in machinery spaces shall be capable of rapidly discharging through fixed discharge outlets a quantity of foam sufficient to fill the greatest space to be protected at a rate of at least 1 metre in depth per minute.
NEW CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS, CONSTRUCTED ON OR AFTER 1 JANUARY 2003:. 5 Fixed high expansion foam fire-extinguishing systems in machinery spaces shall comply with the provisions of the Fire Safety Systems Code.. 5 Fixed pressure water-spraying fire-extinguishing systems in machinery spaces (R 10) NEW CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS CONSTRUCTED BEFORE 1 JANUARY 2003 AND EXISTING B CLASS SHIPS:. 1 Any required fixed pressure water-spraying fire-extinguishing system in machinery spaces shall be provided with spraying nozzles of an approved type.. 2 The number and arrangement of the nozzles shall be such as to ensure an effective average distribution of water of at least 5 litres/m2 per minute in the spaces to be protected.
Nozzles shall be fitted above bilges, tank tops and other areas over which oil fuel is liable to spread and also above other specific fire hazards in the machinery spaces.. 3 The system may be divided into sections, the distribution valves of which shall be operated from easily accessible positions outside the spaces to be protected and will not be readily cut off by a fire in the protected space.. 4 The system shall be kept charged at the necessary pressure and the pump supplying the water for the system shall be put automatically into action by a pressure drop in the system.. 5 The pump shall be capable of simultaneously supplying at the necessary pressure all sections of the system in any one compartment to be protected.
NEW CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS, CONSTRUCTED BEFORE 1 JANUARY 2003:. 7 The pump may be driven by an independent internal combustion machinery but, if it is dependent upon power being supplied from the emergency generator fitted in compliance with the provisions of Part D of Chapter II-1, that generator shall be so arranged as to start automatically in case of main power failure so that power for the pump required by paragraph .5 is immediately available.
Other extinguishers shall be at least as portable as the 13,5-litre fluid extinguisher and shall have a fire-extinguishing capability at least equivalent to that of a 9-litre fluid extinguisher.. 3 Spare charges shall be carried for 50 % of the total of each type of extinguisher on board.
Another extinguisher of the same type is a spare charge for an extinguisher which cannot be readily recharged on board.. 4 In general, portable CO2 fire extinguishers shall not be located in accommodation spaces.
Where such extinguishers are provided in radio rooms, at switchboards and other similar positions, the volume of any space containing one or more extinguishers shall be such as to limit the concentration of vapour that can occur due to discharge to not more than 5 % of the net volume of the space for the purpose of this regulation.
The volume of CO2 shall be calculated at 0,56 m3/kg.
Portable fire extinguishers shall be provided with devices which indicate whether they have been used.. 8 Spare charges shall be provided for 100 % of the first 10 extinguishers and 50 % of the remaining fire extinguishers capable of being recharged on board.. 9 For the extinguishers which cannot be recharged on board, additional portable fire extinguishers of the same quantity, type, capacity and number as determined in paragraph .13 below shall be provided in lieu of spare charges.
NEW CLASS B, C AND D AND EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS:. 10 Fire extinguishers containing an extinguishing medium which either by itself or under expected conditions of use gives off toxic gases in such quantities as to endanger persons or gives off gases which are harmful to the environment shall not be permitted.. 11 The fire extinguishers shall be suitable for extinguishing fires which are possible in the vicinity of the fire extinguisher location.. 12 One of the portable fire extinguishers intended for use in any space shall be located near the entrance of that space.. 13 The minimum number of fire extinguishers shall be as follows:. 1 in accommodation and service spaces: the fire extinguishers shall be so located that no point in the space is more than 10 metres walking distance from an extinguisher;. 2 an extinguisher suitable for use in high voltage areas shall be located in the proximity of any electric panel or subpanel having a power of 20 kW or more;. 3 in galleys the extinguishers shall be so located that no point in the space is more than 10 metres walking distance from an extinguisher;. 4 an extinguisher shall be located in the proximity of paint lockers store rooms containing readily flammable products;. 5 at least one extinguisher shall be located on the navigating bridge and in each control station.. 14 Portable fire extinguishers provided for use in accommodation or service spaces shall so far as practicable have a uniform method of operation.. 15 Periodic inspection of fire extinguishers: the Administration of the Flag State shall ensure that portable fire extinguishers shall be periodically inspected, function-tested and pressure-tested. 6 Fire-extinguishing arrangements in machinery spaces (R 7) Machinery spaces of category A shall be provided with: IN NEW CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS OF 24 METRES IN LENGTH AND OVER:. 1 any one of the following fixed fire-extinguishing systems:. 1 a gas system complying with the relevant provisions of paragraphs .1 and.2 of regulation 4, or an equivalent water-based system as an alternative arrangement for halon systems, complying with the provisions of MSC/Circ. 668 of 30 December 1994 and MSC/Circ. 728 of June 1996, taking into consideration the date of construction of the ship;. 2 a high-expansion foam system complying with the relevant provisions of paragraph .4 of regulation 4, taking into consideration the date of construction of the ship;. 3 a pressure water-spraying system complying with the relevant provisions of paragraph .5 of regulation 4, taking into consideration the date of construction of the ship.. 2 at least one set of portable air-foam equipment consisting of an air-foam nozzle of an inductor type capable of being connected to the fire main by a fire hose, together with a portable tank containing at least 20 litres of foam-making liquid and one spare tank.
The nozzle shall be capable of producing effective foam suitable for extinguishing an oil fire, at a rate of at least 1,5 m3 per min.. 3 In each such space, approved foam-type fire extinguishers, each of at least 45 litres capacity, or equivalent, sufficient in number to enable foam or its equivalent to be directed on to any part of the fuel and lubricating oil pressure systems, gearing and other fire hazards.
In addition, there shall be provided a sufficient number of portable foam extinguishers or equivalent which shall be so located that no point in the space is more than 10 metres walking distance from an extinguisher and that there are at least two such extinguishers in each such space.
IN NEW CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS OF LESS THAN 24 METRES IN LENGTH AND EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS:. 4 one of the fixed fire-extinguishing systems specified in paragraph.1 above, and in addition in any space containing internal combustion engines, or oil fuel settling tanks or oil-fuel units, one foam fire-extinguisher of at least 45 litres capacity or one carbon dioxide extinguisher of at least 16 kg capacity shall be provided, and. 5 one portable fire extinguisher suitable for extinguishing oil fires for each 736 kW or part thereof of such machinery; provided that not less than two nor more than six such extinguishers shall be required in any such space.
IN NEW CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS AND EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS:. 7 When heated oil is used as heating medium, it may be additionally required that boiler rooms are equipped with permanently-installed or portable equipment for local systems for jet spraying of water under pressure or the spreading of foam above and below the floor for fire-extinguishing purposes IN NEW CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS, CONSTRUCTED ON OR AFTER 1 JANUARY 2003, WITH A LENGTH OF 24 METRES AND ABOVE: 8..8.1 Machinery spaces of category A above 500 m3 in volume shall, in addition to the fixed fire-extinguishing system required in this regulation, be protected by an approved type of fixed water-based or equivalent local application fire-fighting system, based on the guidelines developed by IMO, see MSC/Circ. 913 %quot%Guidelines for the approval of fixed water-based local application fire-fighting systems for use in category A machinery spaces%quot%.
IN NEW CLASS B, C AND D, CONSTRUCTED BEFORE 1 JANUARY 2003 AND EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS AND ALL CERTIFIED TO CARRY MORE THAN 400 PASSENGERS:. 9 Fixed local application fire-fighting systems shall be fitted in accordance with paragraph.8 of this Regulation not later than 1 October 2005. 7 Special arrangements in machinery spaces (R 11) NEW CLASS B, C AND D AND EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS:. 1 The number of skylights, doors, ventilators, openings in funnels to permit exhaust ventilation and other openings to machinery spaces shall be reduced to a minimum consistent with the needs of ventilation and the proper and safe working of the ship.. 2 Skylights shall be of steel and shall not contain glass panels.
NEW CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS:. 3 Doors other than power-operated watertight doors, shall be so arranged that positive closure is assured in case of fire in the space, by power-operated closing arrangements or by the provision of self-closing doors capable of closing against an inclination of 3,5° opposing closure and having a fail-safe hold-back facility, provided with a remotely operated release device.
NEW CLASS B, C AND D AND EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS:. 4 Windows shall not be fitted in machinery space boundaries.
It shall be kept charged at the necessary pressure and shall have provision for a continuous supply of water as required in this regulation.. 2 Each section of sprinklers shall include means for giving a visual and audible alarm signal automatically at one or more indicating units whenever any sprinkler comes into operation.
The alarm system shall be such as to indicate if any fault occurs in the system.. 3 Sprinklers shall be grouped into separate sections, each of which shall contain not more than 200 sprinklers.
Any section of sprinklers shall not serve more than two decks and shall not be situated in more than one main vertical zone, unless it can be demonstrated that arrangements with a section of sprinklers serving more than two decks or situated in more than one main vertical zone will not reduce the protection of the ship against fire.. 4 Each section of sprinklers shall be capable of being isolated by one stop valve only.
Means shall be provided to prevent the operation of the stop valves by any unauthorised person.. 5 A gauge indicating the pressure in the system shall be provided at each section stop valve and at a central station.. 6 The sprinklers shall be resistant to corrosion by marine atmosphere.
Suitable instructions for testing and maintenance shall be available.. 8 Sprinklers shall be placed in an overhead position and spaced in a suitable pattern to maintain an average application rate of not less than 5 litres/m2 per minute over the nominal area covered by the sprinklers.
Sprinklers shall be placed as clear as possible of beams or other objects likely to obstruct the projections of water and in such positions that combustible material in the space will be well sprayed.. 9 A pressure tank having a volume equal to at least twice that of the charge of water specified in this paragraph shall be provided.
A glass gauge shall be provided to indicate the correct level of the water in the tank.. 10 Means shall be provided to prevent the passage of seawater into the tank.
Stop valves or cocks shall be provided at each of the gauge connections.. 11 An independent power pump shall be provided solely for the purpose of continuing automatically the discharge of water from the sprinklers.
The pump shall be brought into action automatically by the pressure drop in the system before the standing fresh water charge in the pressure tank is completely exhausted.. 12 The pump and the piping system shall be capable of maintaining the necessary pressure at the level of the highest sprinkler to ensure a continuous output of water sufficient for the simultaneous coverage of a minimum area of 280 m2 at the application rate specified in paragraph.8.
For new class C and D ships of less than 40 metres in length with a total protected area of less than 280 m2, the Administration may specify the appropriate area for sizing of pumps and alternative supply components.. 13 The pump shall have fitted on the delivery side a test valve with a short open-ended discharge pipe.
Where one of the sources of power for the pump is an internal combustion engine it shall, in addition to complying with the provisions of paragraph .15, be so situated that a fire in any protected space will not affect the air supply to the machinery.. 17 The sprinkler system shall have a connection from the ship's fire main by way of a lockable screw-down non-return valve at the connection which will prevent a backflow from the sprinkler system to the fire main.. 18 A test valve shall be provided for testing the automatic alarm for each section of sprinklers by a discharge of water equivalent to the operation of one sprinkler.
NEW CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS, CONSTRUCTED ON OR AFTER 1 JANUARY 2003:. 22 The automatic sprinkler, fire detection and fire alarm systems shall be of an approved type, complying with the provisions of the Fire Safety System Code.. 23 For new C and D class ships of less than 40 metres in length and with a total protected area of less than 280 m2 the Administration may specify the appropriate area for sizing of pumps and alternative components. 9 Fixed fire detection and fire alarm systems (R 13) NEW CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS, CONSTRUCTED BEFORE 1 JANUARY 2003 AND EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS:. 1 General. 1 Any required fixed fire detection and fire alarm system with manually operated call points shall be capable of immediate operation at all times.. 2 Power supplies and electric circuits necessary for the operation of the system shall be monitored for loss of power or fault conditions as appropriate.
Occurrence of a fault condition shall initiate a visual and audible fault signal at the control panel which shall be distinct from a fire signal.. 3 There shall be not less than two sources of power supply for the electrical equipment used in the operation of the fire detection and fire alarm system, one of which shall be an emergency source.
One indicating unit shall be located on the navigating bridge if the control panel is located in the main fire control station.. 7 Clear information shall be displayed on or adjacent to each indicating unit about the spaces covered and the location of the sections.. 8 Where the fire detection system does not include means of remotely identifying each detector individually, no section covering more than one deck within accommodation, service and control stations shall normally be permitted except a section which covers an enclosed stairway.
Flame detectors shall only be used in addition to smoke or heat detectors.. 12 Suitable instructions and component spares for testing and maintenance shall be provided.. 13 The function of the detection system shall be periodically tested to the satisfaction of the Administration of the flag State by means of equipment producing hot air at the appropriate temperature, or smoke or aerosol particles having the appropriate range of density or particle size, or other phenomena associated with incipient fires to which the detector is designed to respond.
One manually operated call point shall be located at each exit.
Manually operated call points shall be readily accessible in the corridors of each deck such that no part of the corridor is more than 20 metres from a manually operated call point.. 2 Smoke detectors shall be installed in all stairways, corridors and escape routes within accommodation spaces.. 3 Where a fixed fire detection and fire alarm is required for the protection of spaces other than those specified in paragraph .2.2 above, at least one detector complying with paragraph .1.11 shall be installed in each such space.. 4 Detectors shall be located for optimum performance.
In general, detectors which are located on the overhead shall be a minimum distance of 0,5 metres away from bulkheads.. 5 %gt%TABLE%gt% The Administration of the flag State may require or permit other spacings based upon test data which demonstrate the characteristics of the detectors.. 6 Electrical wiring which forms part of the system shall be so arranged as to avoid galleys, machinery spaces, and other enclosed spaces of high fire risk except where it is necessary to provide for fire detection or fire alarm in such spaces or to connect to the appropriate power supply.. 3 Design requirements. 1 The system and equipment shall be suitably designed to withstand supply voltage variation and transients, ambient temperature changes, vibration, humidity, shock, impact and corrosion normally encountered in ships.. 2 Smoke detectors to be installed in stairways, corridors and escape routes within accommodation spaces as required by paragraph .2.2 shall be certified to operate before the smoke density exceeds 12,5 % obscuration per metre, but not until the smoke density exceeds 2 % obscuration per metre.
NEW CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS, CONSTRUCTED ON OR AFTER 1 JANUARY 2003:. 4.1 The fixed fire detection and fire alarm systems shall be of an approved type, complying with the provisions of the Fire Safety Systems Code.. 4.2 Manually operated call points complying with the Fire Safety Systems Code shall be installed throughout the accommodation spaces, service spaces and control stations.
One manually operated call point shall be located at each exit.
NEW CLASS A, B, C AND D SHIPS:. 5 In addition to the above provisions, the Administration of the flag State shall ensure that safety provisions on the installations regarding their independence from other installations or systems, the corrosion resistance of their components, the electrical power supply to their control system, and the availability of instructions for their operation and maintenance shall be complied with. 10 Arrangements for oil fuel, lubricating oil and other flammable oils (R 15) NEW CLASS B, C AND D AND EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS:. 1 Limitations in the use of oil as fuel The following limitations shall apply to the use of oil as fuel:. 1 Except as otherwise permitted by this paragraph, no oil fuel with a flashpoint of less than 60 °C shall be used.. 2 In emergency generators, oil fuel with a flashpoint of not less than 43 °C may be used.. 3 Subject to such additional precautions as it may consider necessary and on condition that the ambient temperature of the space in which such oil fuel is stored or used shall not be allowed to rise to within 10 °C below the flashpoint of the oil fuel, the Administration of the flag State may permit the general use of oil fuel having a flashpoint of less than 60 °C but not less than 43 °C.
For ships constructed on or after 1 January 2003 oil fuel having a flashpoint of less than 60 °C but not less than 43 °C may be permitted subject to the following:. 3.1 fuel oil tanks except those arranged in double bottom compartments shall be located outside of machinery spaces of category A;. 3.2 provisions for the measurement of oil temperature are provided on the suction pipe of the fuel pump;. 3.3 stop valves and/or cocks are provided on the inlet side and outlet side of the oil fuel strainers and;. 3.4 pipe joints of welded construction or of circular cone type or spherical type union joint are applied as much as possible.
The flashpoint of oils shall be determined by an approved closed cup method.. 2 Oil fuel arrangements In a ship in which oil fuel is used, the arrangements for the storage, distribution and utilisation of the oil fuel shall be such as to ensure the safety of the ship and persons on board and shall at least comply with the following provisions:. 1.1 As far as practicable, parts of the oil fuel system containing heated oil under pressure exceeding 0,18 N/mm2 shall not be placed in a concealed position such that defects and leakage cannot readily be observed.
The machinery spaces in way of such parts of the oil fuel system shall be adequately illuminated.. 1.2 By heated oil is meant oil the temperature of which after heating is higher than 60 °C or higher than the current flashpoint of the oil, if this is lower than 60 °C.. 2 The ventilation of machinery spaces shall be sufficient under all normal conditions to prevent accumulation of oil vapour.. 3 As far as practicable, oil fuel tanks shall be part of the ship's structure and shall be located outside machinery spaces.
Where such tanks are situated within the boundaries of machinery spaces they shall not contain oil fuel having a flashpoint of less than 60 °C.
Precautions shall be taken to prevent any oil that may escape under pressure from any pump, filter or heater from coming into contact with heated surfaces.. 5 Every oil fuel pipe, which, if damaged, would allow oil to escape from a storage, settling or daily service tank, having a capacity of 500 litres or above, situated above the double bottom, shall be fitted with a cock or valve directly on the tank capable of being closed from a safe position outside the space concerned in the event of a fire occurring in the space in which such tanks are situated.
However, where the Administration of the flag State considers that these latter requirements are impracticable, it may permit termination of sounding pipes in machinery spaces on condition that all the following requirements are met:. 1.1 in addition, an oil-level gauge is provided meeting the requirements of subparagraph .2.6.2;. 1.2 the sounding pipes terminate in locations remote from ignition hazards unless precautions are taken, such as the fitting of effective screens, to prevent the oil fuel in the case of spillage through the terminations of the sounding pipes from coming into contact with a source of ignition;. 1.3 the termination of sounding pipes are fitted with self-closing blanking devices and with a small-diameter self-closing control cock located below the blanking device for the purpose of ascertaining before the blanking device is opened that oil fuel is not present.
NEW CLASS B, C AND D AND EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS:. 2 Other means of ascertaining the amount of oil fuel contained in any oil fuel tank may be permitted if such means, like the means provided in subparagraph .2.6.1.1, do not require penetration below the top of the tank, and providing their failure or overfilling of the tanks will not permit release of fuel.. 3 Means prescribed in subparagraph .2.6.2 shall be maintained in the proper condition to ensure their continued accurate functioning in service.. 7 Provision shall be made to prevent overpressure in any oil tank or in any part of the oil fuel system, including the filling pipes served by pumps on board.
However, ordinary cast iron valves may be used in piping systems, where the design pressure is lower than 7 bar and the design temperature is below 60 °C.
NEW CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS:. 9 All external high pressure fuel delivery lines between the high pressure fuel pumps and fuel injectors shall be protected with a jacketed piping system capable of containing fuel from a high pressure line failure.
The jacketed piping system shall include a means for collection of leakages and arrangements shall be provided for an alarm to be given of a fuel line failure.. 10 All surfaces with temperatures above 220 °C which may be impinged as a result of a fuel system failure shall be properly insulated.. 11 Oil fuel lines shall be screened or otherwise suitably protected to avoid as far as practicable oil spray or oil leakages onto hot surfaces, into machinery air intakes, or other sources of ignition.
The number of joints in such piping systems shall be kept to a minimum.. 13 Components of a diesel engine fuel system shall be designed considering the maximum peak pressure which will be experienced in service, including any high pressure pulses which are generated and transmitted back into fuel supply and spill lines by the action of fuel injection pumps.
The means of isolation shall not affect the operation of the other engines and shall be operable from a position not rendered inaccessible by a fire on any of the engines. 15 Where the Administration of the flag State may permit the conveying of oil and combustible liquids through accommodation and service spaces, the pipes conveying oil or combustible liquids shall be of a material approved by the Administration having regarded of the fire risk.. 16 Existing class B ships shall comply with the requirements of paragraphs .2.9 to.2.11 not later than 1 July 2003, except that a suitable enclosure of engines having an output of 375 kW or less having fuel injection pumps serving more than one injector may be used as an alternative to the jacketed piping system in paragraph .2.9.
In locations where means of ignition are present, such arrangements shall at least comply with the provisions of paragraphs .2.4,.2.6,.2.10 and.2.11 and with the provisions of paragraphs .2.7 and.2.8 in respect of strength and construction.. 5 Periodically unattended machinery spaces In addition to the requirements of provisions 1 to 4, the oil fuel and lubricating oil systems shall comply with the following:. 1 where daily service oil fuel tanks are filled automatically, or by remote control, means shall be provided to prevent overflow spillages.
The outer surface shall be water-resistant;. 2 boots and gloves of rubber or other electrically non-conducting material;. 3 a rigid helmet providing effective protection against impact;. 4 an electric safety lamp (hand lantern) of an approved type with a minimum burning period of three hours;. 5 a firefighter's axe.. 1.2 A breathing apparatus of an approved type consisting of a self-contained compressed-air-operated breathing apparatus (SCBA), the volume of air contained in the cylinders of which shall be at least 1200 litres, or other self-contained breathing apparatus which shall be capable of functioning for at least 30 minutes.
Every SCBA shall be provided with fully charged spare cylinders having a spare storage capacity of at least 2400 litres of free air except that: (i) if the ship is carrying five or more SCBA, the total spare storage capacity of free air need not to exceed 9600 litres; or (ii) if the ship is equipped with means for recharging the air cylinders with full pressure with air, free from contamination, the spare storage capacity of the fully charged spare cylinders of each SCBA shall be at least 1200 litres of free air, and the total spare storage capacity of free air provided in the ship shall not be required to exceed 4800 litres of free air.
For ships, which are constructed on or after 1 January 2003, where %quot%A%quot% class divisions are penetrated, such penetrations shall be tested in accordance with the Fire Test Procedures Code, to ensure that the fire resistance of the divisions is not impaired.
Such penetrations shall be suitably insulated by extension of the insulation at the same level of the division.. 2 Where class %quot%B%quot% divisions are penetrated for the passage of electric cables, pipes, trunks, ducts etc., or for the fitting of ventilation terminals, lighting fixtures and similar devises, arrangements shall be made to ensure that the fire resistance is not impaired in so far as is reasonable and practicable.
Pipes other than steel or copper that penetrate %quot%B%quot% class divisions shall be protected by either:. 1 a fire tested penetration device, suitable for the fire resistance of the division pierced and the type of the pipe used; or. 2 a steel sleeve, having a thickness of not less than 1,8 mm and a length of not less than 900 mm for pipe diameters of 150 mm or more and not less than 600 mm for pipe diameters of less than 150 mm ( preferably equally divided to each side of the division).
In ships, constructed on or after 1 January 2003, no-insulated metallic pipes penetrating %quot%A%quot% or %quot%B%quot% class divisions shall be of materials having a melting temperature which exceeds 950 °C for %quot%A-0%quot% and 850 °C for %quot%B-0%quot% class divisions.. 4 In accommodation spaces, service spaces or control stations, pipes intended to convey oil or other flammable liquids shall be of a suitable material and construction having regard to the fire risk.. 5 Materials readily rendered ineffective by heat shall not be used for over board scuppers, sanitary discharges, and other outlets which are close to the waterline and where the failure of the material in the event of fire would give rise to danger of flooding.. 6 Electric radiators, if used, shall be fixed in position and so constructed as to reduce fire risks to a minimum.
No such radiators shall be fitted with an element so exposed that clothing, curtains, or other similar materials can be scorched or set on fire by heat from the element.. 7 All waste receptacles shall be constructed of non-combustible materials with no openings in the sides or bottom.. 8 In spaces where penetration of oil products is possible, the surface of insulation shall be impervious to oil or oil vapours.
Where there is covering by non-perforated steel plate or other non-combustible materials (not aluminium) which is the ultimate physical surface, this covering may be joined by seaming, riveting, etc.. 9 Paint lockers and flammable liquid lockers shall be protected by an approved fire-extinguishing arrangement, enabling the crew to extinguish a fire without entering the space.
In ships, which are constructed on or after 1 January 2003:. 1 Paint lockers shall be protected by:. 1.1 a carbon dioxide system, designed to give a minimum volume of free gas equal to 40 % of the gross volume of the protected space;. 1.2 a dry powder system, designed for at least 0,5 kg powder/m3;. 1.3 a waterspraying or sprinkler system, designed for 5 litres/m2 min.
In any case the system shall be operable from outside the protected space.. 2 Flammable liquid lockers shall be protected by an appropriate fire extinguishing arrangement approved by the Administration of the flag State.. 3 For lockers of a deck area of less than 4 m2, which do not give access to accommodation spaces, a carbon dioxide portable extinguisher sized to provide a minimum volume of free gas equal to 40 % of the gross volume of the space may be accepted in lieu of a fixed system.
NEW CLASS A, B, C AND D SHIPS AND EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS:. 10 Deep-fat friers, boiling and roasting apparatus: When deep-fat friers, boiling and roasting apparatus are installed and used in spaces outside the main galley, the Administration of the flag State shall impose additional safety measures with regard to the specific fire hazards associated with the use of this type of equipment.
In ships, which are constructed on or after 1 January 2003, deep-fat cooking equipment shall be fitted with the following:. 1 an automatic or manual extinguishing system tested to an international standard in accordance with Publication ISO 15371:2000 on fire-extinguishing systems for protection of galley deep-fat cooking equipment;. 2 a primary and backup thermostat with an alarm to alert the operator in the event of failure of either thermostat;. 3 arrangements for automatically shutting off the electrical power upon activation of the extinguishing system;. 4 an alarm for indicating operation of the extinguishing system in the galley where the equipment is installed; and. 5 controls for manual operation of the extinguishing system, which are clearly labelled for ready use of the crew.
If a space is divided with a deck or a bulkhead of %quot%A%quot% class standard having insulation of different values, the insulation with the higher value shall continue on the deck or bulkhead with the insulation of the lesser value for a distance of at least 450 mm.
For new class B, C and D ships, constructed on or after 1 January 2003 the information to be provided with the required fire control plans and booklets and the graphical symbols to be used for the fire control plans shall be in accordance with the IMO Resolutions A.756 (18) and A.654 (16).. 2 In all ships with a length of 24 metres and over a duplicate set of fire control plans or a booklet containing such plans shall be permanently stored in a prominently marked weather tight enclosure outside the deckhouse for the assistance of shore side fire-fighting personnel. 14 Operational readiness and maintenance NEW CLASS B, C AND D AND EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS:. 1 General requirements At all times while the ship is in service, the fire protection systems and fire-fighting systems and appliances shall be maintained ready for use.
The maintenance plan shall include at least the following fire protection systems and fire-fighting systems and appliances, where installed:. 1 fire mains, fire pumps and hydrants including hoses and nozzles;. 2 fixed fire detection and fire alarm systems;. 3 fixed fire-extinguishing systems and other fire-extinguishing appliances;. 4 automatic sprinkler, fire detection and fire alarm systems;. 5 ventilation systems including fire and smoke dampers, fans and their controls;. 6 emergency shut down of fuel supply;. 7 fire doors including their controls;. 8 general emergency alarm systems;. 9 emergency escape breathing devices;. 10 portable fire extinguishers including spare charges; and. 11 firefighter's outfits.
For ships carrying dangerous goods the fire safety booklet shall provide reference to the pertinent fire-fighting and emergency cargo handling instructions contained in the International Maritime Dangerous Goods Code.. 3 The fire safety operational booklet shall be written in the working language of the ship.. 4 The fire safety operational booklet may be combined with the training manuals required in regulation II-2/A/15.3.
For the purpose of applying the definition of steel or other equivalent material as given in regulation II-2/A/2.7, the %quot%applicable fire exposure%quot% shall be according to the integrity and insulation standards given in the tables of regulations 4 and 5.
For example, where divisions such as decks or sides and ends of deckhouses are permitted to have %quot%B-0%quot% fire integrity, the %quot%applicable fire exposure%quot% shall be half an hour.. 2 However, in cases where any part of the structure is of aluminium alloy, the following shall apply:. 1 The insulation of aluminium alloy components of %quot%A%quot% or %quot%B%quot% class divisions, except structure which is non-load-bearing, shall be such that the temperature of the structural core does not rise more than 200 °C above the ambient temperature at any time during the applicable fire exposure to the standard fire test.. 2 Special attention shall be given to the insulation of aluminium alloy components of columns, stanchions and other structural members required to support lifeboat and life-raft stowage, launching and embarkation areas, and %quot%A%quot% and %quot%B%quot% class divisions to ensure:. 1 that for such members supporting lifeboat and life-raft areas and %quot%A%quot% class divisions, the temperature rise limitation specified in paragraph .2.1 shall apply at the end of one hour; and. 2 that for such members required to support %quot%B%quot% class divisions, the temperature rise limitation specified in paragraph .2.1 shall apply at the end of half an hour.. 3 Crowns and casings of machinery spaces shall be of steel construction adequately insulated and openings therein, if any, shall be suitably arranged and protected to prevent the spread of fire. 2 Main vertical zones and horizontal zones (R 24) NEW CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS:. 1.1 In ships carrying more than 36 passengers, the hull, superstructure and deckhouses shall be subdivided into main vertical zones by A-60 class divisions.
NEW CLASS B, C AND D AND EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS:. 1.2 For new class B, C and D ships carrying not more than 36 passengers and for existing class B ships carrying more than 36 passengers, the hull, superstructure and deckhouses in way of accommodation and service spaces shall be subdivided into main vertical zones by %quot%A%quot% class divisions.
NEW CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS:. 2 As far as practicable, the bulkheads forming the boundaries of the main vertical zones above the bulkhead deck shall be in line with watertight subdivision bulkheads situated immediately below the bulkhead deck.
The length and width of main vertical zones may be extended to a maximum of 48 metres in order to bring the ends of main vertical zones to coincide with subdivision watertight bulkheads or in order to accommodate a large public space extending for the whole length of the main vertical zone provided that the total area of the main vertical zone is not greater than 1600 m2 on any deck.
All such divisions may be faced with combustible materials in accordance with the provisions of regulation 11.
NEW CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS CARRYING NOT MORE THAN 36 PASSENGERS AND EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS CARRYING MORE THAN 36 PASSENGERS:. 1.2 For new ships carrying not more than 36 passengers and existing class B ships carrying more than 36 passengers all bulkheads within accommodation and service spaces which are not required to be %quot%A%quot% class divisions shall be at least %quot%B%quot% class or %quot%C%quot% class divisions as prescribed in the tables in regulation 5.
If such divisions may be faced with combustible materials in accordance with the provisions of regulation 11.
Notwithstanding the requirements of regulations 4 and 5, such bulkheads and ceilings shall be required to meet %quot%B%quot% class integrity standards only in so far as is reasonable and practicable.
Table 4.2 shall apply to decks not forming steps in main vertical zones nor bounding horizontal zones.. 2 For determining the appropriate fire integrity standards to be applied to boundaries between adjacent spaces, such spaces are classified according to their fire risk as shown in categories (1) to (14).
The number in parentheses preceding each category refers to the applicable column or row in the tables. (1) Control stations: - spaces containing emergency sources of power and lighting, - wheelhouse and chartroom, - spaces containing the ship's radio equipment, - fire-extinguishing rooms, fire control rooms and fire-recording stations, - control room for propulsion machinery when located outside the propulsion machinery space, - spaces containing centralised fire alarm equipment, - spaces containing centralised emergency public address system stations and equipment. (2) Stairways: - interior stairways, lifts and escalators (other than those wholly contained within the machinery spaces) for passengers and crew and enclosures thereto; - in this connection a stairway which is enclosed at only one level shall be regarded as part of the space from which it is not separated by a fire door. (3) Corridors: - passenger and crew corridors. (4) Evacuation stations and external escape routes: - survival craft stowage area, - open deck spaces and enclosed promenades forming lifeboat and life-raft embarkation and lowering stations, - assembly stations, internal and external, - external stairs and open decks used for escape routes, - the ship's side to the waterline in the lightest seagoing condition, superstructure and deckhouse sides situated below and adjacent to the life-rafts and evacuation slide's embarkation areas. (5) Open deck spaces: - open deck spaces and enclosed promenades clear of lifeboat and life-raft embarkation and lowering stations, - air spaces (the space outside superstructures and deckhouses). (6) Accommodation spaces of minor fire risk: - cabins containing furniture and furnishing of restricted fire risk, - offices and dispensaries containing furniture and furnishings of restricted fire risk, - public spaces containing furniture and furnishings of restricted fire risk and having a deck area of less than 50 m2. (7) Accommodation spaces of moderate fire risk: - spaces as in category (6) above but containing furniture and furnishing of other than restricted fire risk, - public spaces containing furniture and furnishing of restricted fire risk and having a deck area of 50 m2 or more, - isolated lockers and small storerooms in accommodation spaces having areas less than 4 m2 (in which flammable liquids are not stowed), - sale shops, - motion picture projection and film stowage rooms, - diet kitchens (containing no open flame), - cleaning gear lockers (in which flammable liquids are not stowed), - laboratories (in which flammable liquids are not stowed), - pharmacies, - small drying rooms (having a deck area of 4 m2 or less), - specie rooms, - operating rooms. (8) Accommodation spaces of greater fire risk: - public spaces containing furniture and furnishing of other than restricted fire risk and having a deck area of 50 m2 or more, - barber shops and beauty parlours. (9) sanitary and similar spaces: - communal sanitary facilities, shower, baths, water closets, etc., - small laundry rooms, - indoor swimming pool area, - isolated pantries containing no cooking appliances in accommodation spaces, - private sanitary facilities shall be considered a portion of the space in which they are located. (10) Tanks, voids and auxiliary machinery spaces having little or no fire risk: - water tanks forming part of the ship's structure; - voids and cofferdams; - auxiliary machinery spaces which do not contain machinery having a pressure lubrication system and where storage of combustibles is prohibited, such as; - ventilation and air-conditioning rooms; windlass room; steering gear room; stabiliser equipment room; electrical propulsion motor room; rooms containing section switchboards and purely electrical equipment other than oil-filled electrical transformers (above 10 kVA); shaft alleys and pipe tunnels; spaces for pumps and refrigeration machinery (not handling or using flammable liquids), - closed trunks serving the spaces listed above, - other closed trunks such as pipe and cable trunks. (11) Auxiliary machinery spaces, cargo spaces, cargo and other oil tanks and other similar spaces of moderate fire risk: - cargo oil tanks, - cargo holds, trunkways and hatchways, - refrigerated chambers, - oil fuel tanks (where installed in a separate space with no machinery), - shaft alleys and pipe tunnels allowing storage of combustibles, - auxiliary machinery spaces as in category (10) which contain machinery having a pressure lubrication system or where storage of combustibles is permitted, - oil fuel filling stations, - spaces containing oil-filled electrical transformers (above 10 kVA), - spaces containing small internal combustion engines of power output up to 110 kW driving generators, sprinkler, drencher or fire pumps, bilge pumps, etc., - closed trunks serving the spaces listed above. (12) Machinery spaces and main galleys: - main propulsion machinery rooms (other than electric propulsion motor rooms) and boiler rooms, - auxiliary machinery spaces other than those in categories (10) and (11) which contain internal combustion machinery or other oil burning, heating or pumping units, - main galleys and annexes, - trunks and casings to the spaces listed above. (13) Storesrooms, workshops, pantries, etc.: - main pantries not annexed to galleys, - main laundry, - large drying rooms (having a deck area of more than 4 m2), - miscellaneous stores, - mail and baggage rooms, - garbage rooms, - workshops (not part of machinery spaces, galleys, etc.), - lockers and storerooms having areas greater than 4 m2, other than those spaces that have provisions for the storage of flammable liquids. (14) Other spaces in which flammable liquids are stowed: - paint lockers, - storerooms containing flammable liquids (including dyes, medicines, etc.), - laboratories (in which flammable liquids are stowed).. 3 Where a single value is shown for the fire integrity of a boundary between two spaces, that value shall apply in all cases.. 4 There are no special requirements for material or integrity of boundaries where only a dash appears in the tables.. 5 The Administration of the flag State shall determine in respect of category (5) spaces whether the insulation values in table 4.1 shall apply to ends of deckhouses and superstructures, and whether the insulation values in table 4.2 shall apply to weather decks.
In no case shall the requirements of category (5) of table 4.1 or 4.2 necessitate enclosure of spaces which in the opinion of the Administration of the flag State need not be enclosed.. 3 Continuous %quot%B%quot% class ceiling or linings, in association with the relevant decks or bulkheads, may be accepted as contributing wholly or in part, to the required insulation and integrity of a division.. 4 In approving structural fire protection details the Administration of the flag State shall have regard to the risk of heat transmission at intersections and terminal points of required thermal barriers. %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% 5 Fire integrity of bulkheads and decks in new ships carrying not more than 36 passengers and existing class B ships carrying more than 36 passengers (R 27) NEW CLASS B, C, AND D SHIPS CARRYING NOT MORE THAN 36 PASSENGERS AND EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS CARRYING MORE THAN 36 PASSENGERS:. 1 In addition to complying with the specific provisions for fire integrity of bulkheads and decks mentioned elsewhere in this part, the minimum fire integrity of bulkheads and decks shall be as prescribed in tables 5.1 and 5.2.
The number in parentheses preceding each category refers to the applicable column or row in the tables. (1) Control stations: - spaces containing emergency sources of power and lighting, - wheelhouse and chartroom, - spaces containing the ship's radio equipment, - fire-extinguishing rooms, fire control rooms and fire-recording stations, - control room for propulsion machinery when located outside the propulsion machinery space, - spaces containing centralised fire alarm equipment. (2) Corridors: - passenger and crew corridors and lobbies. (3) Accommodation spaces: - spaces as defined in regulation II-2/A/2.10 excluding corridors. (4) Stairways: - interior stairways, lifts and escalators (other than those wholly contained within the machinery spaces) and enclosures thereto, - in this connection, a stairway which is enclosed only at one level shall be regarded as part of the space from which it is not separated by a fire door. (5) Service spaces (low risk): - lockers and storerooms not having provisions for the storage of flammable liquids and having areas less than 4 m2 and drying rooms and laundries. (6) Machinery spaces of category A: - spaces as defined in regulation II-2/A/2.19.1. (7) Other machinery spaces: - spaces as defined in regulation II-2/A/2.19.2 excluding machinery spaces of category A. (8) Cargo spaces: - all spaces used for cargo (including cargo oil tanks) and trunkways and hatchways to such spaces, other than special category spaces. (9) Service spaces (high risk): - galleys, pantries containing cooking appliances, paint and lamp rooms, lockers and storerooms having areas of 4 m2 or more, spaces for the storage of flammable liquids, and workshops other than those forming part of the machinery spaces. (10) Open decks: - open deck spaces and enclosed promenades having no fire risk.
Air spaces (the space outside superstructures and deckhouses). (11) Special category spaces: - spaces as defined in regulation II-2/A/2.18.. 3 In determining the applicable fire integrity standard of a boundary between two spaces within a main vertical zone or horizontal zone which is not protected by an automatic sprinkler system complying with the provisions of regulation II-2/A/8 or between such zones neither of which is so protected, the higher of the two values given in the tables shall apply.. 4 In determining the applicable fire integrity standard of a boundary between two spaces within a main vertical zone or horizontal zone which is protected by an automatic sprinkler system complying with the provisions of regulation II-2/A/8 or between such zones both of which are so protected, the lesser of the two values given in the tables shall apply.
Where a sprinklered zone and a non-sprinklered zone meet within accommodation and service spaces, the higher of the two values given in the tables shall apply to the division between the zones.. 3 Continuous %quot%B%quot% class ceilings or linings, in association with the relevant decks or bulkheads, may be accepted as contributing, wholly or in part, to the required insulation and integrity of a division.. 4 External boundaries which are required in regulation 1.1 to be of steel or other equivalent material may be pierced for the fitting of windows and sidescuttles provided that there is no requirement for such boundaries to have %quot%A%quot% class integrity elsewhere in this part.
For ships, which are constructed on or after 1 January 2003, the abovementioned dispensation may only be given for crew spaces that are entered only occasionally, in which case the required escape route shall be independent of watertight doors.. 2 Above the bulkhead deck there shall be at least two means of escape from each main vertical zone or similarly restricted space or group of spaces at least one of which shall give access to a stairway forming a vertical escape.. 3 If a radiotelegraph station has no direct access to the open deck, two means of escape from or access to such station shall be provided, one of which may be a porthole or window of sufficient size or another means.. 4 In existing class B ships, a corridor, or part of a corridor from which there is only one route of escape shall not exceed 5 metres in length.
In new class A, B, C and D ships of 24 metres in length and above, a corridor, lobby or part of a corridor from which there is only one route of escape shall be prohibited.
NEW CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS OF 24 METRES IN LENGTH AND ABOVE, CONSTRUCTED BEFORE 1 JANUARY 2003:. 5 At least one of the means of escape required by paragraphs .1.1 and.1.2 shall consist of a readily accessible enclosed stairway, which shall provide continuous fire shelter from the level of its origin to the appropriate lifeboat and life-raft embarkation decks, or to the uppermost deck if the embarkation deck does not extend to the main vertical zone being considered.
The minimum clear width of stairways shall be increased by 10 mm for every one person provided for in excess of 90 persons.
NEW CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS OF 24 METRES IN LENGTH AND ABOVE, CONSTRUCTED ON OR AFTER 1 JANUARY 2003:. 5a At least one of the means of escape required in the paragraphs .1.1 and.1.2 shall consist of a readily accessible enclosed stairway, which shall provide continuous fire shelter from the level of its origin to the appropriate lifeboat and life-raft embarkation decks or to the uppermost weather deck if the embarkation deck does not extend to the main vertical zone being considered.
NEW CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS:. 7 In addition to the emergency lighting required by regulations II-1/D/3 and III/5.3, the means of escape including stairways and exits, shall be marked by lighting or photoluminescent strip indicators placed not more than 0,3 metres above the deck at all points of the escape route including angles and intersections.
The Administration of the flag State shall ensure that such lighting or photoluminescent equipment have been evaluated, tested and applied in accordance with the guidelines as given in IMO Resolution A.752 (18).
However, for new class B, C and D ships, constructed on or after 1 January 2003 the Administration of the Flag State shall ensure that such lighting or photoluminescent equipment has been evaluated, tested and applied in accordance with the Fire Safety Systems Code.
NEW CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS, CONSTRUCTED ON OR AFTER 1 JANUARY 2003:. 8 In ships carrying more than 36 passengers the requirements of paragraph .1.7 of this regulation shall also apply to the crew accommodations.. 9 Normally locked doors that form part of an escape route.. 1 Cabin and stateroom doors shall not require keys to unlock them from inside the room.
Neither shall there be any doors along any designated escape route which require keys to unlock them when moving in the direction of escape.. 2 Escape doors from public spaces that are normally latched shall be fitted with a means of quick release.
Quick release mechanisms shall be designed and installed to the satisfaction of the Administration of the flag State and in particular:. 2.1 consist of bars or panels, the actuating portion of which extends across at least one half of the width of the door leaf, at least 760 mm and not more than 1120 mm above the deck;. 2.2 cause the door latch to release when a force not exceeding 67 N is applied; and. 2.3 not be equipped with any locking device, set screw or other arrangement that prevents the release of the latch when pressure is applied to the releasing device.
In new class B, C and D ships, constructed on or after 1 January 2003, such spaces shall be provided with designated walkways to the means of escape with a breadth of at least 600 mm, and where practicable and reasonable those designated longitudinal walkways shall raise at least 150 mm above the deck surface.
The parking arrangements for the vehicles shall maintain the walkways clear at all times.. 2 One of the escape routes from the machinery spaces where the crew is normally employed shall avoid direct access to any special category space.. 3 Hoistable drive-up/down ramps to platform decks must not be capable of blocking the approved escape routes when in lowered position.. 3.1 Two means of escape shall be provided from each machinery space.
In new class B, C and D ships, constructed on or after 1 January 2003 that ladder shall be located within a protected enclosure that satisfies regulation II-2/B/4, category (2) or II-2/B/5, category (4), as appropriate, from the lower part of the space it serves to a safe position outside the space.
The protected enclosure shall have minimum internal dimensions of at least 800 mm × 800 mm, and shall have emergency lighting provisions; or. 2 one steel ladder leading to a door from which access is provided to the embarkation deck and additionally, in the lower part of the space and in a position well separated from the ladder referred to, a steel door capable of being operated from each side and which provides access to a safe escape route from the lower part of the space to the embarkation deck.. 2 Where the space is above the bulkhead deck, the two means of escape shall be as widely separated as possible and the doors leading from such means of escape shall be a position from which access is provided to the appropriate lifeboat and life-raft embarkation decks.
NEW CLASS A, B, C AND D SHIPS:. 3 From spaces for monitoring of operation of machinery, and from work spaces, there shall be at least two means of escape, of which one shall be independent of the machinery space and give access to the embarkation deck.. 4 The underside of stairs in machinery spaces shall be shielded.
NEW CLASS B, C AND D AND EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS:. 3.2 In a ship of less than 24 metres in length, the Administration of the flag State may dispense with one of the means of escape in machinery spaces, due regard being paid to the width and disposition of the upper part of the space.
The location of emergency escape breathing devices shall take into account the layout of the machinery space and the number of persons normally working in the space.. 6 Reference is made to the IMO Guidelines for the performance, location, use and care of emergency breathing devices. (MSC/Circ. 849).. 7 The number and location of these devices shall be indicated in the fire control plan required in regulation II-2/A/13. 6-1 Escape routes on ro-ro passenger ships (R 28-1). 1 REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO NEW CLASS B, C AND D AND EXISTING CLASS B RO-RO PASSENGER SHIPS. 1.1 This paragraph applies to new class B, C and D and existing class B ro-ro passenger ships.
Handrails and other handholds shall be of such strength as to withstand a distributed horizontal load of 750 N/m applied in the direction of the centre of the corridor or space, and a distributed vertical load of 750 N/m applied in the downward direction.
Neither shall there be any doors along any designed escape route which require keys to unlock them when moving in the direction of escape.. 2 REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO NEW CLASS B, C AND D RO-RO PASSENGER SHIPS. 2.1 The lowest 0,5 metres of bulkheads and other partitions forming vertical divisions along escape routes shall be able to sustain a load of 750 N/m2 to allow them to be used as walking surfaces from the side of the escape route with the ship at large angles of heel.. 2.2 The escape route from cabins to stairway enclosures shall be as direct as possible, with a minimum number of changes in direction.
It shall not be necessary to cross from one side of the ship to the other to reach an escape route.
It shall not be necessary to climb more than two decks up or down in order to reach an assembly station or open deck from any passenger space.. 2.3 External routes shall be provided from open decks, referred to in paragraph 2.2, to the survival craft embarkation stations.. 3 REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO NEW CLASS B, C AND D RO-RO PASSENGER SHIPS CONSTRUCTED ON OR AFTER 1 JULY 1999 For new class B, C and D ro-ro passenger ships constructed on or after 1 July 1999, escape routes shall be evaluated by an evacuation analysis early in the design process.
In addition, the analysis shall be used to demonstrate that escape arrangements are sufficiently flexible to provide for the possibility that certain escape routes, assembly stations, embarkation stations or survival craft may not be available as a result of a casualty. 7 Penetrations and openings in %quot%A%quot% and %quot%B%quot% class divisions (R 30, 31) NEW CLASS B, C AND D AND EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS:. 1 All openings in %quot%A%quot% class divisions shall be provided with permanently attached means of closing which shall be as effective for resisting fires as the divisions in which they are fitted.. 2 The construction of all doors and door frames in %quot%A%quot% class divisions, with the means of securing them when closed, shall provide resistance to fire as well as to the passage of smoke and flame, as far as practicable, equivalent to that of the bulkheads in which the doors are situated.
Doors designed to re-open upon contacting an object in its path shall re-open sufficiently to allow a clear passage of at least 0,75 metres, but no more than one metre.. 3 All doors, except fire doors which are normally kept closed, shall be capable of remote and automatic release from a continuously manned central control station, either simultaneously or in groups, and also individually from a position at both sides of the door.
Holdback hooks not subject to central control station release are prohibited.. 4 Local power accumulators for power-operated doors shall be provided in the immediate vicinity of the doors to enable the doors to be operated at least 10 times (fully opened and closed) using the local controls.. 5 Double-leaf doors equipped with a latch necessary to their fire integrity shall have a latch that is automatically activated by the operation of the doors when released by the system.. 6 Doors giving direct access to special category spaces which are power-operated and automatically closed need not be equipped with alarms and remote-release mechanisms required in.4.2 and.4.3.
CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS CONSTRUCTED ON OR AFTER 1 JANUARY 2003: Instead of.4 the following paragraph .4a shall apply. 4a Fire doors in main vertical zone bulkheads, galley boundaries and stairway enclosures other than power-operated watertight doors and those which are normally locked, shall satisfy the following requirements:. 1 the doors shall be self-closing and be capable of closing against an angle of inclination of up to 3,5° opposing closure;. 2 the approximate time of closure for hinged fire doors shall be no more than 40 seconds and no less than 10 seconds from the beginning of their movement with the ship in upright position.
The approximate uniform rate of closure for sliding fire doors shall be of no more than 0,2 m/s and no less than 0,1 m/s with the ship in the upright position;. 3 the doors shall be capable of remote release from the continuously manned central control station, either simultaneously or in groups and shall be capable of release also individually from a position at both sides of the door.
Release switches shall have an on-off function to prevent automatic resetting of the system;. 4 hold-back hooks not subject to central control station release are prohibited;. 5 a door closed remotely from the central control station shall be capable of being reopened at both sides of the door by local control.
After such local opening the door shall automatically close again;. 6 indication shall be provided at the fire door indicator panel in the continuously manned central control station whether each of the remote-released doors are closed;. 7 the release mechanism shall be so designed that the door will automatically close in the event of disruption of the control system or main source of electric power;. 8 local power accumulators for power-operated doors shall be provided in the immediate vicinity of the doors to enable the doors to be operated after disruption of the control system or main source of electric power at least 10 times (fully opened or closed) using the local controls;. 9 disruption of the control system or main source of electric power at one door shall not impair the safe functioning of the other doors;. 10 remote-released sliding or power-operated doors shall be equipped with an alarm that sounds for at least 5 seconds but no more than 10 seconds after the door is released from the central control station and before the door begins to move and continue sounding until the door is completely closed;. 11 a door designed to re-open upon contacting an object in its path shall re-open not more than one metre from the point of contact;. 12 double-leaf doors equipped with latch necessary to their fire integrity shall have a latch that is automatically activated by the operation of the doors when released by the control system;. 13 doors giving direct access to special category spaces which are power-operated and automatically closed need not be equipped with the alarms and remote-release mechanisms required in paragraph .3 and.10;. 14 the components of the local control system shall be accessible for maintenance and adjusting; and. 15 power-operated doors shall be provided with a control system of an approved type which shall be able to operate in case of fire, this being determined in accordance with the Fire Test Procedure Code.
This system shall satisfy the following requirements:. 15.1 the control system shall be able to operate the door at a temperature of at least 200 °C for at least 60 minutes, served by the power supply;. 15.2 the power supply for all other doors not subject to fire shall not be impaired, and;. 15.3 at temperatures exceeding 200 °C the control system shall be automatically isolated from the power supply and shall be capable of keeping the door closed up to at least 945 °C.
NEW CLASS B, C AND D AND EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS:. 7 Doors and door frames in %quot%B%quot% class divisions and means of securing them shall provide a method of closure which shall have resistance to fire equivalent to that of the divisions except that ventilation openings may be permitted in the lower portion of such doors.
Doors shall be non combustible.. 7.1 For reasons of noise reduction, the Administration may approve, as an equivalent, doors with built-in ventilation sound-locks with openings at the bottom on one side of the door and at the top on the other side, on condition that the following provisions have been complied with:. 1 The upper opening shall always face towards the corridor and shall be provided with a grating of non-combustible material and an automatically operating fire damper, which is activated at a temperature of about 70 °C.. 2 The lower opening shall be provided with a grating made of a non-combustible material.. 3 The doors shall be tested in accordance with Resolution A.754 (18).
When a stairway is closed in one between-deck space, the stairway enclosure shall be protected in accordance with the tables for decks in regulations 4 and 5;. 2 stairways may be fitted in the open in a public space, provided they lie wholly within such public space.
NEW CLASS B, C AND D AND EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS:. 2 Stairway enclosures shall have direct access with the corridors and be of a sufficient area to prevent congestion, having in view the number of persons likely to use them in an emergency.
Only public spaces, corridors, public toilets, special category spaces, other escape stairways required by regulation 6-1.5 and external areas are permitted to have direct access to these stairway enclosures.
NEW CLASS B, C AND D AND EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS:. 2 In general, the ventilation fans shall be so disposed that the ducts reaching the various spaces remain within the main vertical zone.. 3 Where ventilation systems penetrate decks, precautions shall be taken, in addition to those relating to fire integrity of the deck required by regulation II-2/A/12.1, to reduce the likelihood of smoke and hot gases passing from one between-deck space to another through the system.
Where such ducts penetrate %quot%A%quot% or %quot%B%quot% class divisions due regard shall be given to ensuring the fire integrity of the division;. 3 short lengths of duct, not in general exceeding 0,02 m2 in sectional area nor two metres in length, need not be non-combustible provided that all of the following conditions are met:. 1 the duct is constructed of a material of low fire risk to the satisfaction of the Administration of the flag State;. 2 the duct is used only at the terminal end of the ventilation system, and. 3 the duct is not located closer than 600 mm measured along its length to a penetration of an %quot%A%quot% or %quot%B%quot% class division, including continuous %quot%B%quot% class ceilings.
CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS, CONSTRUCTED ON OR AFTER 1 JANUARY 2003: instead of subparagraph .1 the following subparagraph .1a shall apply:. 1a the duct shall be of a material which has low flame spread characteristics.. 5 Stairway enclosures shall be ventilated and shall be served only by an independent fan and duct system which shall not serve any other spaces in the ventilation system.
The fans shall be sized such that the entire volume within the space can be exhausted in 10 minutes or less.. 8 Ventilation ducts shall be provided with suitably located hatches for inspection and cleaning, where reasonable and practicable.. 9 Exhaust ducts from galley ranges in which grease or fat is likely to accumulate shall meet requirements of subparagraphs .9.2.3.2.1 and.9.2.3.2.2 and shall be fitted with:. 1 a grease trap readily removable for cleaning unless an alternative approved grease removal system is fitted;. 2 a fire damper located in the lower end of the duct which is automatically and remotely operated, and in addition a remotely operated fire damper located in the upper end of the duct;. 3 a fixed means for extinguishing a fire within the duct;. 4 remote control arrangements for shutting off the exhaust fans and supply fans, for operating the fire dampers mentioned in.2 and for operating the fire-extinguishing system, which shall be placed in a position close to the entrance to the galley.
When passing through bulkheads, this length shall be divided preferably into 450 mm on each side of the bulkhead.
The insulation shall have at least the same fire integrity as the bulkhead or deck through which the duct passes.. 2 Ducts with a free cross-sectional area exceeding 0,075 m2 shall be fitted with fire dampers in addition to the requirements of sub-paragraph .9.2.2.1.
In new class B, C and D ships, constructed on or after 1 January 2003 the ventilation systems for machinery spaces of category A, vehicle spaces, ro-ro spaces, galleys, special category spaces and cargo spaces shall, in general, be separated from each other and from the ventilation systems serving other spaces.
Except that the galley ventilation systems on passenger ships carrying not more than 36 passengers need not be completely separated, but may be served by separate ducts from a ventilation unit serving other spaces.
Such requirements need not apply to control stations situated on, and opening on to, an open deck, or where local closing arrangements would be equally effective.. 7 Where they pass through accommodation spaces or spaces containing combustible materials, the exhaust ducts from galley ranges shall be constructed of %quot%A%quot% class divisions.
Each exhaust duct shall be fitted with:. 1 a grease trap readily removable for cleaning;. 2 a fire damper located in the lower end of the duct;. 3 arrangements, operable from within the galley, for shutting off the exhaust fans; and. 4 fixed means for extinguishing a fire within the duct.. 8 Where it is necessary that a ventilation duct passes through a main vertical zone division, a fail-safe automatic closing fire damper shall be fitted adjacent to the division.
The damper shall also be capable of being manually closed from each side of the division.
NEW CLASS B, C AND D AND EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS:. 9 The main inlets and outlets of all ventilation systems shall be capable of being closed from outside the spaces being ventilated.
NEW CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS:. 10 Power ventilation of accommodation spaces, service spaces, cargo spaces, control stations and machinery spaces shall be capable of being stopped from an easily accessible position outside the space being served.
In new class B, C and D ships, constructed on or after 1 January 2003 this shall be determined in accordance with the Fire Test Procedures Code.. 2 Notwithstanding the requirements of the tables in regulations 4 and 5, all windows and sidescuttles in bulkheads separating accommodation and service spaces and control stations from weather shall be constructed with frames of steel or other suitable material.
NEW CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS CARRYING MORE THAN 36 PASSENGERS:. 3 Windows facing life-saving appliances, embarkation and assembly areas, external stairs and open decks used for escape routes, and windows situated below life-raft and escape slide embarkation areas shall have the fire integrity as required in the tables of regulation 4.
Windows located in the ship's side below the lifeboat embarkation areas shall have the fire integrity at least equal to %quot%A-0%quot% class.
NEW CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS CARRYING NOT MORE THAN 36 PASSENGERS AND EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS:. 4 Notwithstanding the requirements of the tables in regulation II-2/B/5, special attention shall be given to the fire integrity of windows facing open or enclosed lifeboat and life-raft embarkation areas and to the fire integrity of windows situated below such areas in such a position that their failure during a fire would impeded the launching of, or embarkation into, lifeboats or life-rafts. 11 Restricted use of combustible material (R 34) NEW CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS:. 1 Except in cargo spaces, mail rooms, baggage rooms, or refrigerated compartments of service spaces, all linings, grounds, draughtstops, ceilings, and insulations shall be of non-combustible materials.
Partial bulkheads or decks used to subdivide a space for utility or artistic treatment shall also be of non-combustible material.. 2 Vapour barriers and adhesives used in conjunction with insulation, as well as insulation of pipe fittings, for cold service systems need not be non-combustible, but they shall be kept to the minimum quantity practicable and their exposed surfaces shall have qualities of resistance to the propagation of flame in accordance with the test procedure of IMO Resolution A.653 (16).
CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS, CONSTRUCTED ON OR AFTER 1 JANUARY 2003: Instead of.2 the following paragraph .2a shall apply:. 2a Vapour barriers and adhesives used in conjunction with insulation, as well as insulation of pipe fittings for cold service systems need not be non-combustible, but they shall be kept to the minimum quantity practicable and their exposed surfaces shall have low flame spread characteristics.. 3 The following surfaces shall have low flame-spread characteristics:. 1 exposed surfaces in corridors and stairway enclosures, and of bulkheads, wall and ceiling linings in all accommodation and service spaces and control stations;. 2 concealed or inaccessible spaces in accommodation, service spaces and control stations.. 4 The total volume of combustible facings, mouldings, decorations and veneers in any accommodation and service space shall not exceed a volume equivalent to 2,5 mm veneer on the combined area of the walls and ceilings.
This applies as well to decorative flower or plant arrangements, statues or other objects of art such as paintings and tapestries in corridors and stairways.. 7 Paints, varnishes and other finishes used on exposed interior surfaces shall not be capable of producing excessive quantities of smoke and toxic products.
CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS, CONSTRUCTED ON OR AFTER 1 JANUARY 2003: Instead of paragraph .8 the following paragraph .8a shall apply:. 8a Primary deck coverings, if applied within accommodation and service spaces and control stations, shall be of an approved material which will not readily ignite or give rise to toxic or explosive hazards at elevated temperatures, this being determined in accordance with the IMO Fire Test Procedure Code. 12 Details of construction (R 35) NEW CLASS B, C AND D AND EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS: In accommodation and service spaces, control stations, corridors and stairways:. 1 air spaces enclosed behind ceilings, panelling or linings shall be suitably divided by close-fitting draught stops not more than 14 metres apart;. 2 in the vertical direction, such enclosed air spaces, including those behind linings of stairways, trunks, etc.
Spaces having little or no fire risk such as voids, public toilets, carbon dioxide rooms and similar spaces need not be fitted with an automatic sprinkler system or fixed fire detection and alarm system.. 3 In periodically unattended machinery spaces a fixed fire detection and fire alarm system of an approved type, in accordance with the relevant provisions of regulation II-2/A/9, shall be installed.
Under this concept a horizontal zone for the purpose of this regulation may include special category spaces on more than one deck provided that the total overall clear height for vehicles does not exceed 10 metres.. 2 The requirements of regulations II-2/A/12, II-2/B/7 and II-2/B/9 for maintaining the integrity of vertical zones shall be applied equally to decks and bulkheads forming the boundaries separating horizontal zones from each other and from the remainder of the ship.. 2 Structural protection. 1 In new ships carrying more than 36 passengers the boundary bulkheads and decks of special category spaces shall be insulated to %quot%A-60%quot% class standard.
Where fuel oil tanks are below a special category space, the integrity of the deck between such spaces may be reduced to %quot%A-0%quot% standard.. 2 In new ships carrying not more than 36 passengers and existing class B ships carrying more than 36 passengers the boundary bulkheads of special category spaces shall be insulated as required for category (11) spaces in table 5.1 of regulation 5 and the horizontal boundaries as required for category (11) in table 5.2 of regulation 5.. 3 Indicators shall be provided on the navigating bridge which shall indicate when any fire door leading to or from the special category spaces is closed.
Such fixed pressure water-spraying system or other equivalent fire-extinguishing system shall comply with the provisions of IMO Resolution A.123 (V) and the IMO MSC/Circ. 914 %quot%Guidelines when approving alternative water-based fire-fighting systems for use in special category spaces%quot% shall be taken into consideration.. 4 Patrols and detection. 1 An efficient patrol system shall be maintained in special category spaces.
In new class B, C and D ships, constructed on or after 1 January 2003, manually operated call points shall be spaced so that no part of the space is more than 20 metres from a manually operated call point. 5 Portable fire-extinguishing equipment NEW CLASS B, C AND D, CONSTRUCTED BEFORE 1 January 2003 AND EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS:. 5a There shall be provided in each special category space:. 1 at least three water fog applicators;. 2 one portable foam applicator unit complying with the provisions of regulation II-2/A/6.2, provided that at least two such units are available in the ship for use in such spaces; and. 3 at least one portable extinguisher located at each access to such spaces.
The number of air changes shall be increased at least to 20 during loading and unloading of vehicles.
The system shall be capable of being controlled from a position outside such spaces.. 2 The ventilation shall be such as to prevent air stratification and the formation of air pockets.. 3 Means shall be provided to indicate on the navigating bridge any loss or reduction of the required ventilating capacity.. 4 Arrangements shall be provided to permit a rapid shutdown and effective closure of the ventilation system in case of fire, taking into account the weather and sea conditions.. 5 Ventilation ducts, including dampers, shall be made of steel and their arrangement shall be to the satisfaction of the Administration of the flag State.
NEW CLASS B, C AND D AND EXISTING CLASS B RO-RO PASSENGER SHIPS:. 1.2 Discharges. 1.2.1 Discharge valves for scuppers, fitted with positive means of closing operable from a position above the bulkhead deck in accordance with the requirements of the International Convention on Load Lines in force, shall be kept open while the ships are at sea.. 1.2.2 Any operation of the valves referred to in subparagraph .1.2.1 shall be recorded in the logbook.
NEW CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS:. 2 Precautions against ignition of flammable vapours. 1 On any deck or platform, if fitted, on which vehicles are carried and on which explosive vapours might be expected to accumulate, except platforms with openings of sufficient size permitting penetration of petrol gases downwards, equipment which may constitute a source of ignition of flammable vapours and, in particular, electrical equipment and wiring, shall be installed at least 450 mm above the deck or platform.
Electrical equipment installed at more than 450 mm above the deck or platform shall be of a type so enclosed and protected as to prevent the escape of sparks.
However, if the installation of electrical equipment and wiring at less than 450 mm above the deck or platform is necessary for the safe operation of the ship, such electrical equipment and wiring may be installed provided that it is of a certified safe type approved for use in an explosive petrol and air mixture.. 2 Electrical equipment and wiring, if installed in an exhaust ventilation duct, shall be of a type approved for use in explosive petrol and air mixtures and the outlet from any exhaust duct shall be sited in a safe position, having regard to other possible sources of ignition.. 3 Additional provisions applicable only to special category spaces below the bulkhead deck NEW CLASS B,C AND D SHIPS:. 1 Bilge pumping and drainage In view of the serious loss of stability which could arise due to large quantities of water accumulating on the deck or tank top consequent on the operation of the fixed pressure water-spraying system, the Administration of the flag State may require pumping and drainage facilities to be provided additional to the requirements of regulation II-1/C/3.
Other equipment which may constitute a source of ignition of flammable vapours shall not be permitted.. 2 Electrical equipment and wiring, if installed in an exhaust ventilation duct, shall be of a type approved for use in explosive petrol and air mixtures and the outlet from any exhaust duct shall be sited in a safe position, having regard to other possible sources of ignition.. 4 Permanent openings CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS, CONSTRUCTED ON OR AFTER 1 JANUARY 2003: Permanent openings in the side plating, the ends or deckhead of special category spaces shall be so situated that a fire in the special category space does not endanger stowage areas and embarkation stations for survival craft and accommodation spaces, service spaces and control stations in superstructures and deckhouses above the special category spaces. 15 Fire patrols, detection, alarms and public address systems (R 40) NEW CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS:. 1 Manually operated call points complying with the requirements of regulation II-2/A/9 shall be installed.. 2 All ships shall at all times when at sea, or in port (except when out of service), be so manned or equipped as to ensure that any initial fire alarm is immediately received by a responsible member of the crew.. 3 A special alarm, operated from the navigating bridge or fire control station, shall be fitted to summon the crew.
Detectors operated by heat instead of smoke shall be installed in galleys.. 2 Smoke detectors connected to the fire detection and alarm system shall also be fitted above ceilings in stairways and corridors in the areas where ceilings are of combustible construction.. 3.1 Hinged fire doors in stairway enclosures, main vertical zone bulkheads and galley boundaries which are normally kept open shall be self-closing and be capable of release from a central control station and from a position at the door.. 3.2 A panel shall be placed in a continuously manned central control station to indicate whether the fire doors in stairway enclosures, main vertical zone bulkheads and galley boundaries are closed.. 3.3 Exhaust ducts from galley ranges in which grease or fat is likely to accumulate and which pass through accommodation spaces or spaces containing combustible materials shall be constructed of %quot%A%quot% class divisions.
Other existing spaces within the stairway enclosure:. 1 shall be emptied, permanently closed and disconnected from the electrical system; or. 2 shall be separated from the stairway enclosure by the provision of %quot%A%quot% class divisions in accordance with regulation 5.
The Administration of the flag State shall ensure that such lighting or photoluminescent equipment have been evaluated, tested and applied in accordance with the guidelines as given in IMO Resolution A.752 (18) or in ISO Standard 15370-2001.. 3.8 A general emergency alarm system shall be provided.
The alarm shall be audible throughout all the accommodation and normal crew working spaces and open decks, and its sound pressure level shall comply with the standards of the Code on Alarms and Indicators adopted by IMO in Resolution A.686 (17).. 3.9 A public address system or other effective means of communication shall be available throughout the accommodation, public and service spaces, control stations and open decks.. 3.10 Furniture in stairway enclosures shall be limited to seating.
When a stairway is closed in one between-deck space, the stairway enclosure shall be protected in accordance with the tables for decks in regulation 5;. 2 stairways may be fitted in the open in a public space, provided they lie wholly within such public space.. 2 Machinery spaces shall be fitted with a fixed fire-extinguishing system complying with the requirements of regulation II-2/A/6.. 3 Ventilation ducts passing through divisions between main vertical zones shall be equipped with a fail-safe automatic closing fire damper which shall also be capable of being manually closed from each side of the division.
Ventilation ducts passing through a main fire zone division without serving spaces on both sides or passing through a stairway enclosure without serving that enclosure need not be fitted with dampers provided that the ducts are constructed and insulated to %quot%A-60%quot% standard and have no openings within the stairway enclosure or in the trunk on the side which is not directly served.. 4 Special category spaces shall comply with the requirements of regulation II-2/B/14.. 5 All fire doors in stairway enclosures, main vertical zone bulkheads and galley boundaries which are normally kept open shall be capable of release from a central control station and from a position at the door.. 6 The requirements of paragraph .1.3.7 of this regulation shall also apply to the accommodations.. 3 Not later than 1 October 2005 or 15 years after the date of construction of the ship, whichever is the later:. 1 Accommodation and service spaces, stairway enclosures and corridors shall be fitted with an automatic sprinkler, fire detection and fire alarm system complying with the requirements of regulation II-2/A/8 or with the IMO guidelines for an approved equivalent sprinkler system as given in IMO Resolution A.800 (19). 17 Special requirements for ships carrying dangerous goods (R 41) NEW CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS, CONSTRUCTED BEFORE 1 JANUARY 2003, AND EXISTING CLASS B SHIPS: The requirements of SOLAS regulation II-2/54 shall apply, as appropriate, to passenger ships carrying dangerous goods.
CHAPTER III LIFE SAVING APPLIANCES 1 Definitions (R 3) NEW AND EXISTING CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS: For the purpose of this chapter, unless expressly provided otherwise, the definitions of SOLAS 1974 regulation III/3, as amended, shall apply. 2 Communication, survival craft and rescue boats, personal life-saving appliances (R 6 + 7 + 18 + 21 + 22) NEW AND EXISTING CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS: Every ship shall carry at least the radio life-saving appliances, radar transponders, personal life-saving appliances, survival craft and rescue boats, distress flares, line-throwing appliances specified in the following table and relative notes, on the basis of the ship's class.
All above appliances, including their launching appliances where applicable, shall comply with the regulations of Chapter III of the Annex to the 1974 SOLAS Convention, as amended, unless expressly provided otherwise in the following paragraphs.
However if the ship is constantly engaged in warm climates where to the opinion of the Administration thermal protection is unnecessary, this protective clothing need not be carried. %gt%TABLE%gt% 3 Emergency alarm, operating instructions, training manual, assembly lists and emergency instructions (R 6 + 8 + 9 +19 + 20) NEW AND EXISTING CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS: Every ship shall be provided with:. 1 A general emergency alarm system (R 6.4.2) It must comply with the requirements of paragraph 7.2.1.1 of the LSA Code, and be suitable for summoning passengers and crews to assembly stations and to initiate the actions included in the assembly list.
FOR NEW CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS, CONSTRUCTED ON OR AFTER 1 JANUARY 2003: The minimum sound pressure levels for broadcasting emergency announcements shall be in accordance withparagraph 7.2.2.2 of the LSA Code.. 2.4 NEW CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS:. 1 The public address system shall have at least two loops which shall be sufficiently separated throughout their length and have two separate and independent amplifiers; and. 2 the public address system and its performance standards shall be approved by the Administration of the flag State having regard to the recommendations adopted by the IMO.. 2.5 The public address system shall be connected to the emergency source of electrical power.. 2.6 Existing ships which are already fitted with the public address system approved by the Administration of the flag State which comply substantially with those required byparagraph .2.2,.2.3 and .2.5 are not required to change their system.. 3 Assembly list and emergency instructions (R 8) Clear instructions to be followed in the event of an emergency shall be provided for every person on board, in accordance with IMO Resolution A.691 (17).
The instructions shall be in compliance with the requirements of SOLAS regulation III/36. 4 Manning of survival craft and supervision (R 10) NEW AND EXISTING CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS:. 1 There shall be a sufficient number of trained persons on board for assembling and assisting untrained persons.. 2 There shall be a sufficient number of crew members on board for operating the survival craft and launching arrangements required for abandonment of the total number of persons on board.. 3 An officer or certified person shall be placed in charge of each survival craft to be used.
Such lighting shall be capable of being supplied by the emergency source of electrical power required by regulations II-1/D/3 and II-1/D/4.
In addition to and as part of the markings required under II-2/B 6.1.7 for new class B, C and D ships, routes to assembly stations shall be indicated with the assembly station symbol, intended for that purpose, in accordance with IMO Resolution A.760 (18).
Communication between the embarkation station and the platform shall be ensured.. 2 Every life-raft on ro-ro passenger ships shall be provided with float-free stowage arrangements complying with the requirements of SOLAS regulation III/13.4.. 3 Every life-raft on ro-ro passenger ships shall be of a type fitted with a boarding ramp complying with the requirements of paragraph 4.2.4.1 or 4.3.4.1 of the LSA Code as appropriate.. 4 Every life-raft on ro-ro passenger ships shall either be automatically self-righting or be a canopied reversible life-raft which is stable in a seaway and is capable of operating safely whichever way up it is floating.
Every such life-raft shall be approved by the Administration of the flag State having regard to the recommendations adopted by the IMO, with MSC/Circ. 809.. 3 Fast rescue boats. 1 At least one of the rescue boats on a ro-ro passenger ship shall be a fast rescue boat approved by the Administration of the flag State having regard to the recommendations adopted by the IMO with MSC Circ. 809.. 2 Each fast rescue boat shall be served by a suitable launching appliance approved by the Administration of the flag State.
These means shall be approved by the flag State having regard to the recommendations adopted by IMO with MSC/Circ. 810.. 3 If the slide of a marine evacuation system in intended to provide the means of transfer of survivors to the deck of the ship, the slide shall be equipped with handlines or ladders to aid in climbing up the slide.. 5 Life-jackets. 1 Notwithstanding the requirements of SOLAS regulations III/7.2 and III/22.2 a sufficient number of life-jackets shall be stowed in the vicinity of the assembly stations so that passengers do not have to return to their cabins to collect their life-jackets.. 2 In ro-ro passenger ships, each life-jacket shall be fitted with a light complying with the requirements of paragraph 2.2.3 of the LSA Code. 5-2 Helicopter landing and pick-up areas (R 28) NEW AND EXISTING CLASS B, C AND D RO-RO SHIPS:. 1 Existing ro-ro passenger ships shall comply with the requirements of paragraph .2 of this regulation not later than the date of the first periodical survey after the date referred to in Article 14(1) of this Directive.. 2 Ro-ro passenger ships shall be provided with a helicopter pick-up area approved by the Administration of the flag State having regard to the recommendations adopted by the IMO in Resolution A.229(VII), as amended.. 3 New ro-ro passenger ships of class B, C and D of 130 metres and upwards in length shall be fitted with a helicopter landing area approved by the Administration of the flag State having regard to the recommendations adopted by the IMO. 5-3 Decision support system for masters (R 29) NEW AND EXISTING CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS:. 1 Existing ships shall comply with the requirements of this regulation not later than the date of the first periodical survey after 1 July 1999.. 2 In all ships, a decision support system for emergency management shall be provided on the navigation bridge.. 3 The system shall, as a minimum, consist of a printed emergency plan or plans.
All foreseeable emergency situations shall be identified in the emergency plan or plans, including but not limited to, the following main groups of emergencies:. 1 fire;. 2 damage to ship;. 3 pollution;. 4 unlawful acts threatening the safety of the ship and the security of its passengers and crew;. 5 personnel accidents; and. 6 cargo-related accidents;. 7 emergency assistance to other ships.. 4 The emergency procedures established in the emergency plan or plans shall provide decision support to masters for handling any combination of emergency situations.. 5 The emergency plan or plans shall have a uniform structure and be easy to use.
FOR NEW CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS, CONSTRUCTED ON OR AFTER 1 January 2003: In addition there shall be provision for hanging-off the lifeboat to free the release gear for maintenance.. 3 Launching and recovering arrangements shall be such that the appliance operator on the ship is able to observe the survival craft at all times during launching and for lifeboats during recovery.. 4 Only one type of release mechanism shall be used for similar survival craft carried on board the ship.. 5 Falls, where used, shall be long enough for survival craft to reach the water with the ship in its lightest seagoing condition, under unfavourable conditions of trim of up to 10° and list of up to 20° either way for new ships, respectively up to at least 15° either way for existing ships.. 6 Preparation and handling of survival craft at any one launching station shall not interfere with the prompt preparation and handling of any other survival craft or rescue boat at any other station.. 7 Means shall be available to prevent any discharge of water on survival craft during abandonment.. 8 During preparation and launching, the survival craft, its launching appliance, and the area of water into which it is to be launched shall be adequately illuminated by lighting supplied from the emergency source of electrical power required by regulations II-1/D/3 and II-1/D/4. 10 Rescue boat embarkation, launching and recovery arrangements (R 17) NEW AND EXISTING CLASS B, C AND D SHIPS:. 1 The rescue boat embarkation and launching arrangements shall be such that the rescue boat can be boarded and launched in the shortest possible time.. 2 The rescue boat shall be capable of being boarded and launched directly from the stowed position with the number of persons assigned to crew the rescue boat on board.. 3 If the rescue boat is included in the capacity of the survival craft and the other lifeboats are boarded from the embarkation deck the rescue boat shall, in addition to paragraph .2, also be capable of being boarded from the embarkation deck.. 4 Launching arrangements shall comply with the requirements of regulation 9.
The drills of the crew shall take place before departure of the ship if more than 25 % of the crew have not participated in abandon ship and fire drills on board that particular ship in the previous month.
However, all such lifeboats shall be lowered at least once every 3 months and launched at least annually.. 5 If a ship is fitted with marine evacuation systems drills shall include the actions required in SOLAS regulation III/19.3.3.8.. 6 Emergency lighting for assembling and abandonment shall be tested at each abandon ship drill.. 7 Fire drills shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of SOLAS regulation III/19.3.4.. 8 On-board training and instructions shall be given to crew members in accordance with the provisions of SOLAS regulation III/19.4. (1) The arabic numerals following the letter %quot%C%quot% in the subdivision load line notations may be replaced by roman numerals or letters if the Administration of the flag State considers this necessary to make the distinction with the international subdivision load line notations. (2) Refer to the Code on Noise levels on Board Ships, adopted by IMO Assembly Resolution A.468 (XII). (3) Reference is made to the recommendations published by the International Electrotechnical Commission and, in particular, Publication 92 - Electrical Installations in Ships.%quot%
