Annex VI was last amended by Annex 4 to Directive 98/98/EC(3).
Sections 3.2.3, 3.2.8, 6.2 and 8 of Annex 4 to Directive 98/98/EC are incomplete.
Article 2 This Decision is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 19 May 2000.
For the Commission Margot Wallström Member of the Commission (1) OJ 196, 16.8.1967, p. 1. (2) OJ L 199, 30.7.1999, p. 57. (3) OJ L 355, 30.12.1998, p. 1.
ANNEX %quot%ANNEX 4 1.6.
Harmful Substances and preparations shall be classified as harmful and assigned the symbol %quot%Xn%quot% and the indication of danger %quot%harmful%quot% in accordance with the criteria specified below.
Risk phrases shall be assigned in accordance with the following criteria: R 22 Harmful if swallowed Acute toxicity results: - LD50 per oral, rat: 200 %amp%lt; LD50 %amp%lt;= 2000 mg/kg, - discriminating dose, oral, rat 50, mg/kg: 100 % survival but evident toxicity, - less than 100 % survival at 500 mg/kg, rat oral by the fixed dose procedure.
R 21 Harmful in contact with skin Acute toxicity results: - LD50 dermal, rat or rabbit: 400 %amp%lt; LD50 %amp%lt;= 2000 mg/kg.
R 20 Harmful by inhalation Acute toxicity results: - LC50 inhalation, rat, for aerosols or particulates: 1 %amp%lt; LC50 %amp%lt;= 5 mg/litre/4 hr, - LC50 inhalation, rat, for gases or vapours: 2 %amp%lt; LC50 %amp%lt;= 20 mg/litre/4 hr.
R 65 Harmful: may cause lung damage if swallowed Liquid substances and preparations presenting an aspiration hazard in humans because of their low viscosity (a) For substances and preparations containing aliphatic, alicyclic and aromatic hydrocarbons in a total concentration equal to or greater than 10 % and having either: - a flow time of less than 30 seconds in a 3 mm ISO cup according to ISO 2431, or - a kinematic viscosity measured by a calibrated glass capillary viscometer in accordance with ISO 3104/3105 of less than 7 × 10-6 m2/sec at 40 °C, or - a kinematic viscosity derived from measurements of rotational viscometry in accordance with ISO 3129 of less than 7 × 10-6 m2/sec at 40 °C.
In order to indicate route of administration/exposure one of the following combinations shall be used: R 40/20, R 40/21, R 40/22, R 40/20/21, R 40/20/22, R 40/21/22, R 40/20/21/22.
R 48 Danger of serious damage to health by prolonged exposure - serious damage (clear functional disturbance or morphological change which has toxicological significance) is likely to be caused by repeated or prolonged exposure by an appropriate route.
Substances and preparations are classified at least as harmful when these effects are observed at levels of the order of: - oral, rat %amp%lt;= 50 mg/kg (body weight)/day, - dermal, rat or rabbit %amp%lt;= 100 mg/kg (body weight)/day, - inhalation, rat %amp%lt;= 0,25 mg/l, 6 h/day.
In order to indicate route of administration/exposure one of the following combinations shall be used: R 48/20, R 48/21, R 48/22, R 48/20/21, R 48/20/22, R 48/21/22, R 48/20/21/22. 3.2.3.1.
In both cases all scores at each of the reading times (24, 48 and 72 hours) for an effect should be used in calculating respective mean values.
Paresthesia: Paresthesia caused in humans by skin contact with pyrethroid pesticides is not regarded as an irritant effect justifying classification as Xi; R 38.
R 31 Contact with acids liberates toxic gas For substances and preparations which react with acids to evolve toxic gases in dangerous amounts, for example, sodium hypochlorite, barium polysulphide.
R 64 May cause harm to breastfed babies For substances and preparations which are absorbed by women and may interfere with lactation or which may be present (including metabolites) in breast milk in amounts sufficient to cause concern for the health of a breastfed child.
For comments on the use and this R-phrase (and in some cases R 33) see section 4.2.3.3.
See also sections 1.6 and 1.7.
R 67 Vapours may cause drowsiness and dizziness For volatile substances and preparations containing such substances which cause clear symptoms of central nervous system depression by inhalation and which are not already classified with respect to acute inhalation toxicity (R 20, R 23, R 26, R 40/20, R 39/23 or R 39/26).
See also sections 1.6 and 1.7.
If a manufacturer, distributor or importer has information available which indicates that a substance should be classified and labelled in accordance with the criteria given in section 4.2.1, 4.2.2 or 4.2.3, he shall provisionally label the substance in accordance with these criteria, on the basis of the assessment of the evidence by a competent person. 4.1.3.
Furthermore, a manufacturer, distributor or importer who has new data which are relevant to the classification and labelling of a substance in accordance with the criteria given in section 4.2.1, 4.2.2 or 4.2.3, shall submit this data as soon as possible to one Member State in which the substance in placed on the market. 5.2.2.
Non-aquatic environment 5.2.2.1.
Substances shall be classified as dangerous for the environment and assigned the symbol %quot%N%quot% and the appropriate indication of danger, and assigned risk phrases in accordance with the following criteria: R 54: Toxic to flora R 55: Toxic to fauna R 56: Toxic to soil organisms R 57: Toxic to bees R 58: May cause long term adverse effects on the environment Substances which on the basis of the available evidence concerning their properties, persistence, potential to accumulate and predicted or observed environmental fate and behaviour may present a danger, immediate or long-term and/or delayed, to the structure and/or functioning of natural ecosystems other than those covered under 5.2.1.
Substances shall be classified as dangerous for the environment and assigned the symbol %quot%N%quot% and the appropriate indication of danger, and assigned risk phrases in accordance with the following criteria: R 59: Dangerous for the ozone layer Substances which on the basis of the available evidence concerning their properties and their predicted or observed environmental fate and behaviour may present a danger to the structure and/or functioning of the stratospheric ozone layer.
This includes the substances which are listed in Annex I to Council Regulation (EC) No 3093/94 on substances that deplete the ozone layer (OJ L 333, 22.12.1994, p. 1) and its subsequent amendments. 6.2.
S 2 Keep out of the reach of children - Applicability: - all dangerous substances and preparations, - Criteria for use: - obligatory for all dangerous substances and preparations sold to the general public, except for those only classified as dangerous for the environment.
S 3 Keep in a cool place - Applicability: - organic peroxides, - other dangerous substances and preparations having a boiling point %amp%lt;= 40 °C, - Criteria for use: - obligatory for organic peroxides unless S 47 is used, - recommended for other dangerous substances and preparations having a boiling point %amp%lt;= 40 °C.
S 4 Keep away from living quarters - Applicability: - very toxic and toxic substances and preparations, - Criteria for use: - normally limited to very toxic and toxic substances and preparations when desirable to supplement S 13; for example when there is an inhalation risk and the substance or preparation should be stored away from living quarters.
S 5 Keep contents under ... (appropriate liquid to be specified by the manufacturer) - Applicability: - spontaneously flammable solid substances and preparations, - Criteria for use: - normally limited to special cases, for example, sodium, potassium or white phosphorous.
S 6 Keep under ... (inert gas to be specified by the manufacturer) - Applicability: - dangerous substances and preparations which must be kept under an inert atmosphere, - Criteria for use: - normally limited to special cases, for example, certain organometallic compounds.
S 7 Keep container tightly closed - Applicability: - organic peroxides, - substances and preparations which can give off very toxic, toxic, harmful or extremely flammable gases, - substances and preparations which in contact with moisture give off extremely flammable gases, - highly flammable solids, - Criteria for use: - obligatory for organic peroxides, - recommended for the other fields of application mentioned above.
S 9 Keep container in a well-ventilated place - Applicability: - volatile substances and preparations which may give off very toxic, toxic or harmful vapours, - extremely flammable or highly flammable liquids and extremely flammable gases, - Criteria for use: - recommended for volatile substances and preparations which may give off very toxic, toxic or harmful vapours, - recommended for extremely flammable or highly flammable liquids or extremely flammable gases.
S 12 Do not keep the container sealed - Applicability: - substances and preparations which will by giving off gases or vapours be liable to burst the container, - Criteria for use: - normally limited to the special cases mentioned above.
S 14 Keep away from ... (incompatible materials to be indicated by the manufacturer) - Applicability: - organic peroxides, - Criteria for use: - obligatory for and normally limited to organic peroxides.
S 15 Keep away from heat - Applicability: - substances and preparations which may decompose or which may react spontaneously under the effect of heat, - Criteria for use: - normally limited to special cases, for example monomers, but not assigned if risk phrases R 2, R 3 and/or R 5 have already been applied.
S 16 Keep away from sources of ignition - no smoking - Applicability: - extremely flammable or highly flammable liquids and extremely flammable gases, - Criteria for use: - recommended for the substances and preparations mentioned above but not assigned if risk phrases R 2, R 3 and/or R 5 have already been applied.
S 17 Keep away from combustible material - Applicability: - substances and preparations which may form explosive or spontaneously flammable mixtures with combustible material, - Criteria for use: - available for use in special cases, for example to emphasise R 8 and R 9.
S 18 Handle and open container with care - Applicability: - substances and preparations liable to produce an overpressure in the container, - substances and preparations which may form explosive peroxides, - Criteria for use: - normally limited to the abovementioned cases when there is risk of damage to the eyes and/or when the substances and preparations are likely to be used by the general public.
S 20 When using do not eat or drink - Applicability: - very toxic, toxic and corrosive substances and preparations, - Criteria for use: - normally limited to special cases (for example arsenic and arsenic compounds; (fluoracetates) in particular when any of these are likely to be used by the general public.
S 21 When using do not smoke - Applicability: - substances and preparations which produce toxic products on combustion. - Criteria for use: - normally limited to special cases (e.g.
S 22 Do not breathe dust - Applicability: - all solid substances and preparations dangerous for health, - Criteria for use: - obligatory for those substances and preparations mentioned above to which R 42 is assigned, - recommended for those substances and preparations mentioned above which are supplied in the form of an inhalable dust and for which the health hazards following inhalation are not known.
S 23 Do not breathe gas/fumes/vapour/spray (appropriate wording to be specified by the manufacturer) - Applicability: - all liquid or gaseous substances and preparations dangerous to health, - Criteria for use: - obligatory for those substances and preparations mentioned above to which R 42 is assigned, - obligatory for substances and preparations intended for use by spraying.
S 24 Avoid contact with skin - Applicability: - all substances and preparations dangerous for health, - Criteria for use: - obligatory for those substances and preparations to which R 43 has been ascribed, unless S 36 has also been ascribed, - recommended when it is necessary to draw the attention of the user to skin contact risks not mentioned in the risk phrases (e.g.
S 25 Avoid contact with eyes - Applicability: - all substances and preparations dangerous to health, - Criteria for use: - recommended when it is necessary to draw the attention of the user to eye contact risks not mentioned in the risk phrases which have to be applied.
However, may be used to emphasise such risk phrases, - recommended for substances ascribed R 34, R 35, R 36 or R 41 which are likely to be used by the general public.
S 28 After contact with skin, wash immediately with plenty of ... (to be specified by the manufacturer). - Applicability: - very toxic, toxic or corrosive substances and preparations, - Criteria for use: - obligatory for very toxic substances and preparations, - recommended for the other substances and preparations mentioned above, in particular when water is not the most appropriate rinsing fluid, - recommended for corrosive substances and preparations which are likely to be used by the general public.
S 29 Do not empty into drains - Applicability: - extremely or highly flammable liquids immiscible with water, - very toxic and toxic substances and preparations, - substances dangerous for the environment, - Criteria for use: - obligatory for substances dangerous for the environment and assigned the symbol %quot%N%quot%, which are likely to be used by the general public, unless this is the intended use. - recommended for other substances and preparations mentioned above which are likely to be used by the general public, unless this is the intended use.
S 35 This material and its container must be disposed of in a safe way. - Applicability: - all dangerous substances and preparations, - Criteria for use: - recommended for substances and preparations where special guidance is needed to ensure proper disposal.
S 36 Wear suitable protective clothing - Applicability: - organic peroxides, - very toxic, toxic or harmful substances and preparations, - corrosive substances and preparations, - Criteria for use: - obligatory for very toxic and corrosive substances and preparations, - obligatory for those substances and preparations to which either R 21 or R 24 has been ascribed, - obligatory for category 3 carcinogens, mutagens and substances toxic to reproduction unless the effects are produced solely by inhalation of the substance or preparation, - obligatory for organic peroxides, - recommended for toxic substances and preparations if the LD50 dermal value is unknown but the substance or preparation is likely to be toxic through skin contact, - recommended for substances and preparations used in industry which are liable to damage health by prolonged exposure.
S 37 Wear suitable gloves - Applicability: - very toxic, toxic, harmful or corrosive substances and preparations, - organic peroxides, - substances and preparations irritating to the skin or causing sensitisation by skin contact, - Criteria for use: - obligatory for very toxic and corrosive substances and preparations, - obligatory for those substances and preparations to which either R 21, R 24 or R 43 has been ascribed, - obligatory for category 3 carcinogens, mutagens and substances toxic to reproduction unless the effects are produced solely by inhalation of the substances and preparations, - obligatory for organic peroxides, - recommended for toxic substances and preparations if the LD 50 dermal value is unknown but the substance or preparation is likely to be harmful by skin contact, - recommended for substances and preparations irritating to the skin.
S 38 In case of insufficient ventilation, wear suitable respiratory equipment - Applicability: - very toxic or toxic substances and preparations, - Criteria for use: - normally limited to special cases involving the use of very toxic or toxic substances and preparations in industry or in agriculture.
S 45 In case of accident or if you feel unwell seek medical advice immediately (show the label where possible). - Applicability: - very toxic substances and preparations, - toxic and corrosive substances and preparations, - substances and preparations causing sensitisation by inhalation, - Criteria for use: - obligatory for the substances and preparations mentioned above.
S 48 Keep wetted with ... (appropriate material to be specified by the manufacturer) - Applicability: - substances and preparations which may become very sensitive to sparks, friction or impact if allowed to dry out, - Criteria for use: - normally limited to special cases, for example nitrocelluloses.
S 49 Keep only in the original container - Applicability: - substances and preparations sensitive to catalytic decomposition, - Criteria for use: - substances and preparations sensitive to catalytic decomposition, for example certain organic peroxides.
S 52 Not recommended for interior use on large surface areas - Applicability: - volatile, very toxic, toxic and harmful substances and preparations containing them, - Criteria for use: - recommended when damage to health is likely to be caused by prolonged exposure to these substances by reason of their volatilisation from large treated surfaces in the home or other enclosed places where persons congregate.
S 53 Avoid exposure - Obtain special instructions before use - Applicability: - substances and preparations that are carcinogenic, mutagenic and/or toxic to reproduction, - Criteria for use: - obligatory for the abovementioned substances and preparations to which at least one of the following R-phrases has been assigned: R 45, R 46, R 49, R 60 or R 61.
S 57 Use appropriate containment to avoid environmental contamination - Applicability: - substances which have been assigned the symbol %quot%N%quot%, - Criteria for use: - normally limited to substances not likely to be used by the general public.
S 59 Refer to manufacturer/supplier for information on recovery/recycling - Applicability: - all dangerous substances and preparations, - Criteria for use: - obligatory for substances dangerous for the ozone layer, - recommended for other substances and preparations for which recovery/recycling is recommended.
Choice of safety phrases The final choice of safety phrases must have regard to the risk phrases indicated on the label and to the intended use of the substance or preparation: - as a general rule, a maximum of four S-phrases shall suffice to formulate the most appropriate safety advice; for this purpose the combined phrases listed in Annex IV shall be regarded as single phrases, - in the case of S-phrases concerning disposal, one S-phrase shall be used, unless it is clear that disposal of the material and its container does not present a danger for human health or the environment.
Phrases should be chosen with the intended use in view, - the safety phrases S 1, S 2 and S 45 are obligatory for all very toxic, toxic and corrosive substances and preparations sold to the general public, - the safety phrases S 2 and S 46 are obligatory for all other dangerous substances and preparations (except those only classified as dangerous to the environment) sold to the general public.
SPECIAL CASES: SUBSTANCES 8.1.
However, by way of derogation from Article 24(1) and 82), one of the following alternatives can be used for gas cylinders with a water capacity of less than or equal to 150 litres: - the format and dimensions of the label can follow the prescriptions of the ISO standard ISO/DP 7225, - the information specified in Article 23(2) may be provided on a durable information disc or label held captive on the cylinder. 8.2.
However, the information concerning effects on human health which should have appeared on the label shall be transmitted to the professional user by the person responsible for placing the substance on the market in the format foreseen in Article 27 of the Directive.
Metals in massive form These substances are classified in Annex I or shall be classified in accordance with Article 6.
