Article 2 Mission The ESDC shall provide training in the field of the European Security and Defence Policy (ESDP) at the strategic level in order to develop and promote a common understanding of ESDP among civilian and military personnel, and to identify and disseminate, through its training activities, best practice in relation to various ESDP issues.
Article 3 Objectives The objectives of ESDC shall be the following: (a) to further enhance the European security culture within ESDP; (b) to promote a better understanding of ESDP as an essential part of the Common Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP); (c) to provide EU instances with knowledgeable personnel able to work efficiently on all ESDP matters; (d) to provide Member States' administrations and staff with knowledgeable personnel familiar with EU policies, institutions and procedures; and (e) to help promote professional relations and contacts among training participants.
Article 4 Tasks of the ESDC 1.
Other training activities shall be undertaken, as decided by the Steering Committee referred to in Article 5. 3.
Article 6 The Steering Committee 1.
The Committee shall adopt its Rules of Procedure. 6.
Article 7 The Executive Academic Board 1.
Article 8 The Secretariat 1.
Staff shall be provided by the General Secretariat of the Council, Member States and the institutes forming the ESDC network. 2.
Article 9 Participation in the ESDC training activities 1.
Article 10 Cooperation The ESDC shall cooperate with and draw on the expertise of international organisations and other relevant actors, such as national training institutes of third States.
Article 11 Financing 1.
Article 14 Entry into force This Joint Action shall enter into force on the day of its adoption.
Article 15 Publication This Joint Action shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Done at Brussels, 18 July 2005.
Straw [1] OJ L 101, 11.4.2001, p. 1.
Decision as amended by Decision 2004/194/EC (OJ L 63, 28.2.2004, p. 48). --------------------------------------------------
