Commission Directive 2003/63/EC of 25 June 2003 amending Directive 2001/83/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on the Community code relating to medicinal products for human use (Text with EEA relevance) Commission directive 2003/63/EC of 25 June 2003 amending Directive 2001/83/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on the Community code relating to medicinal products for human use (Text with EEA relevance) THE COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, Having regard to Directive 2001/83/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 6 November 2001 on the Community code relating medicinal products for human use(1), as last amended by Directive 2002/98/EC(2), and in particular Article 120 thereof, Whereas: (1) Every medicinal product for human use that is to be placed on the European Community market must be granted a marketing authorisation delivered by a competent authority.
The presentation and content of the marketing authorisation application dossier have to be improved in order to facilitate the assessment and the better use of certain parts of the dossier which are common to several medicinal products. (3) Within the framework of the International Conference on Harmonisation (ICH) a consensus was reached in 2000 to provide a harmonised format and terminology for a Common Technical Document through which a homogeneous organisation and presentation of a marketing authorisation application dossier for human medicinal products could be achieved.
Standardised marketing authorisation dossier requirements should therefore be introduced in order to implement the Common Technical Document without delay. (4) The standardised marketing authorisation dossier requirements (harmonised format) should be applicable to any type of medicinal product for human use, regardless of the procedure for the granting of the marketing authorisation.
Article 109 of Directive 2001/83/EC has been amended.
This should remain the task of the competent authority that granted the marketing authorisation for the plasma-derived medicinal product. (6) In the case of vaccines for human use, the same antigen may be common to several medicinal products (vaccines) and any change to that particular antigen, ipso facto, may impact, therefore, on several vaccines authorised by different procedures.
It is therefore appropriate to determine specific requirements in respect of these products with regard to the standardised marketing authorisation requirements. (9) The treatment of various acquired and inherited pathological dysfunctions in humans calls upon novel concept-based approaches based on the development of biotechnology techniques.
The latter involve the use of advanced therapy medicinal products based on processes focused on various gene-transfer-produced bio-molecules (gene therapy medicinal products) and manipulated or processed cells (cell therapy medicinal products) as active substances. (10) In so far as they achieve their essential action through metabolic, physiological and immunological means to restore, correct or modify physiological functions in humans, these novel complex therapeutic products representing a new category of biological medicinal products in the sense of Articles 1 and 2 of Directive 2001/83/EC.
Article 3 This Directive shall enter into force on the third day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Article 4 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 25 June 2003.
For the Commission Erkki Liikanen Member of the Commission (1) OJ L 311, 28.11.2001, p. 67. (2) OJ L 33, 8.2.2003, p. 30.
ANNEX Annex I to Directive 2001/83/EC is replaced by the following: %quot%ANNEX I ANALYTICAL, PHARMACOTOXICOLOGICAL AND CLINICAL STANDARDS AND PROTOCOLS IN RESPECT OF THE TESTING OF MEDICINAL PRODUCTS TABLE OF CONTENTS %gt%TABLE%gt% Introduction and general principles (1) The particulars and documents accompanying an application for marketing authorisation pursuant to Articles 8 and 10 (1) shall be presented in accordance with the requirements set out in this Annex and shall follow the guidance published by the Commission in The rules governing medicinal products in the European Community, Volume 2 B, Notice to applicants, Medicinal products for human use, Presentation and content of the dossier, Common Technical Document (CTD). (2) The particulars and documents shall be presented as five modules: Module 1 provides European Community specific administrative data; Module 2 provides quality, non-clinical and clinical summaries, Module 3 provides chemical, pharmaceutical and biological information, Module 4 provides non-clinical reports and Module 5 provides clinical study reports.
These five Modules shall be presented in strict accordance with the format, content and numbering system delineated in details in Volume 2 B of the Notice to Applicants referred to above. (3) The European Community-CTD-presentation is applicable for all types of marketing authorisation applications irrespective of the procedure to be applied (i.e.
In particular, all relevant details shall be given of any incomplete or abandoned pharmaco-toxicological or clinical test or trial relating to the medicinal product and/or completed trials concerning therapeutic indications not covered by the application. (8) All clinical trials, conducted within the European Community, must comply with the requirements of Directive 2001/20/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the implementation of good clinical practice in the conduct of clinical trials on medicinal products for human use(3).
They shall be carried out in accordance with the ethical principles that are reflected, for example, in the Declaration of Helsinki. (9) Non-clinical (pharmaco-toxicological) studies shall be carried out in conformity with the provisions related to Good Laboratory Practice laid down in Council Directives 87/18/EEC on the harmonisation of regulations and administrative provisions relating to the application of the principles of good laboratory practice and the verification of their application for tests in chemical substances(4) and 88/320/EEC on the inspection and verification of good laboratory practice (GLP)(5). (10) Member States shall also ensure that all tests on animals are conducted in accordance with Council Directive 86/609/EEC of 24 November 1986 on the approximation of laws, regulation and administrative provisions of the Member States regarding the protection of animals for experimental and other scientific purposes. (11) In order to monitor the benefit/risk assessment, any new information not in the original application and all pharmaco-vigilance information shall be submitted to the competent authority.
After marketing authorisation has been granted, any change to the data in the dossier shall be submitted to the competent authorities in accordance with the requirements of Commission Regulations (EC) No 1084/2003(6) and (EC) No 1085/2003(7) of the Commission or, if relevant, in accordance with national provisions, as well as the requirements in Volume 9 of Commission publication The rules governing medicinal products in the European Community.
PART I STANDARDISED MARKETING AUTHORISATION DOSSIER REQUIREMENTS 1.
Summary of product characteristics, labelling and package leaflet 1.3.1.
These shall be in accordance with all mandatory items listed in Title V on the labelling of medicinal products for human use (Article 63) and on package leaflet (Article 59). 1.3.3.
Mock-ups and specimens The applicant shall provide specimen and/or mock-ups of the immediate and outer packaging, labels and package leaflets for the medicinal product concerned. 1.3.4.
Summaries of product characteristics already approved in the Member States Annexed to the administrative data of the application form shall be copies of all the summaries of product characteristics in accordance with Articles 11 and 21 as approved by Member States, where applicable and a list of countries in which an application has been submitted. 1.4.
Information about the experts In accordance with Article 12 (2) experts must provide detailed reports of their observations on the documents and particulars which constitute the marketing authorisation dossier and in particular on Modules 3, 4 and 5 (chemical, pharmaceutical and biological documentation, non-clinical documentation and clinical documentation, respectively).
The experts are required to address the critical points related to the quality of the medicinal product and of the investigations carried out on animals and human beings and bring out all the data relevant for evaluation.
These requirements shall be met by providing a quality overall summary, a non-clinical overview (data from studies carried out in animals) and a clinical overview that shall be located in Module 2 of the marketing authorisation application dossier.
Environmental risk connected with the release of medicinal products containing or consisting of GMOs (Genetically Modified Organisms) within the meaning of Article 2 of Directive 2001/18/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 March 2001 on the deliberate release into the environment of modified organisms and repealing Council Directive 90/220/EEC(8) shall be addressed.
The information shall consist of: - an introduction; - a copy of any written consent or consents to the deliberate release into the environment of the GMO(s) for research and development purposes according to Part B of Directive 2001/18/EC; - the information requested in Annexes II to IV of the Directive 2001/18/EC, including detection and identification methods as well as unique code of the GMO, plus any additional information on the GMO or the product of relevance to evaluating the environmental risk; - an environment risk assessment (ERA) report prepared on basis of the information specified in Annexes III and IV of Directive 2001/18/EC and in accordance with Annex II of Directive 2001/18/EC; - taking into account the above information and the ERA, a conclusion which proposes an appropriate risk management strategy which includes, as relevant to the GMO and product in question, a post-market monitoring plan and the identification of any special particulars which need to appear in the Summary of Product Characteristics, labelling and package leaflet; - appropriate measures in order to inform the public.
MODULE 2: SUMMARIES This Module aims to summarise the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological data, the non-clinical data and the clinical data presented in Modules 3, 4 and 5 of the dossier for marketing authorisation, and to provide the reports/overviews described in Article 12 of this Directive.
Those reports shall provide cross-references to tabular formats or to the information contained in the main documentation presented in Module 3 (chemical, pharmaceutical and biological documentation), Module 4 (non-clinical documentation) and Module 5 (clinical documentation).
Information contained in Module 2 shall be presented in accordance with the format, content and numbering system delineated in the Volume 2 of the Notice to Applicants.
The overviews and summaries shall comply with the basic principles and requirements as laid down herewith: 2.1.
Introduction Information on the pharmacological class, mode of action and proposed clinical use of the medicinal product for which a marketing authorisation is requested shall be supplied. 2.3.
This document shall follow the scope and outline of the corresponding detailed data presented in Module 3. 2.4.
The characteristics of the medicinal product, as demonstrated by the non-clinical studies shall be defined and the implications of the findings for the safety of the medicinal product for the intended clinical use in human shall be discussed. 2.5.
Clinical overview The clinical overview is intended to provide a critical analysis of the clinical data included in the clinical summary and Module 5.
Efficacy or safety issues encountered in development and unresolved issues shall be explained. 2.6.
Non-clinical summary The results of pharmacology, pharmaco-kinetics and toxicology studies carried out in animals/in vitro shall be provided as factual written and tabulated summaries which shall be presented in the following order: - Introduction - Pharmacology Written Summary - Pharmacology Tabulated Summary - Pharmaco-kinetics Written Summary - Pharmaco-kinetics Tabulated Summary - Toxicology Written Summary - Toxicology Tabulated Summary. 2.7.
Clinical Summary A detailed, factual summary of the clinical information on the medicinal product included in Module 5 shall be provided.
This shall include the results of all bio-pharmaceutics studies, of clinical pharmacology studies, and of clinical efficacy and safety studies.
Summarised clinical information shall be presented in the following order: - Summary of Bio-pharmaceutics and Associated Analytical Methods - Summary of Clinical Pharmacology Studies - Summary of Clinical Efficacy - Summary of Clinical Safety - Synopses of Individual Studies 3.
Format and presentation The general outline of Module 3 is as follows: - Table of contents - Body of data - Active substance General Information - Nomenclature - Structure - General Properties Manufacture - Manufacturer(s) - Description of Manufacturing Process and Process Controls - Control of Materials - Controls of Critical Steps and Intermediates - Process Validation and/or Evaluation - Manufacturing Process Development Characterisation - Elucidation of Structure and other Characteristics - Impurities Control of Active Substance - Specification - Analytical Procedures - Validation of Analytical Procedures - Batch Analyses - Justification of Specification Reference Standards or Materials Container Closure System Stability - Stability Summary and Conclusions - Post-approval Stability Protocol and Stability Commitment - Stability Data - Finished Medicinal Product Description and Composition of the Medicinal Product Pharmaceutical Development - Components of the Medicinal Product - Active Substance - Excipients - Medicinal Product - Formulation Development - Overages - Physicochemical and Biological Properties - Manufacturing Process Development - Container Closure System - Microbiological Attributes - Compatibility Manufacture - Manufacturer(s) - Batch Formula - Description of Manufacturing Process and Process Controls - Controls of Critical Steps and Intermediates - Process Validation and/or Evaluation Control of Excipients - Specifications - Analytical Procedures - Validation of Analytical Procedures - Justification of Specifications - Excipients of Human or Animal Origin - Novel Excipients Control of Finished Medicinal Product - Specification(s) - Analytical Procedures - Validation of Analytical Procedures - Batch Analyses - Characterisation of Impurities - Justification of Specification(s) Reference Standards or Materials Container Closure System Stability - Stability Summary and Conclusion - Post-approval Stability Protocol and Stability Commitment - Stability Data - Appendices - Facilities and Equipment (Biological Medicinal Products only) - Adventitious Agents Safety Evaluation - Excipients - European Community Additional Information - Process Validation Scheme for the Medicinal Product - Medical Device - Certificate(s) of Suitability - Medicinal products containing or using in the manufacturing process materials of animal and/or human origin (TSE procedure) - Literature References 3.2.
Content: basic principles and requirements (1) The chemical, pharmaceutical and biological data that shall be provided shall include for the active substance(s) and for the finished medicinal product all of relevant information on: the development, the manufacturing process, the characterisation and properties, the quality control operations and requirements, the stability as well as a description of the composition and presentation of the finished medicinal product. (2) Two main sets of information shall be provided, dealing with the active substance(s) and with the finished medicinal product, respectively. (3) This Module shall in addition supply detailed information on the starting and raw materials used during the manufacturing operations of the active substance(s) and on the excipients incorporated in the formulation of the finished medicinal product. (4) All the procedures and methods used for manufacturing and controlling the active substance and the finished medicinal product shall be described in sufficient details to enable them to be repeated in control tests, carried out at the request of the competent authority.
In the case of analytical procedures included in the European Pharmacopoeia, this description shall be replaced in each relevant section by the appropriate detailed reference to the monograph(s) and general chapter(s). (6) In case where starting and raw materials, active substance(s) or excipient(s) are described neither in the European Pharmacopoeia nor in the pharmacopoeia of a Member State, compliance with the monograph of a third country pharmacopoeia can be accepted.
In such cases, the applicant shall submit a copy of the monograph accompanied by the validation of the analytical procedures contained in the monograph and by a translation where appropriate. (7) Where the active substance and/or a raw and starting material or excipient(s) are the subject of a monograph of the European Pharmacopoeia, the applicant can apply for a certificate of suitability that, where granted by the European Directorate for the Quality of Medicines, shall be presented in the relevant section of this Module.
The manufacturer shall give the assurance in writing to the applicant that the manufacturing process has not been modified since the granting of the certificate of suitability by the European Directorate for the Quality of Medicines. (8) For a well-defined active substance, the active substance manufacturer or the applicant may arrange for the (i) detailed description of the manufacturing process, (ii) quality control during manufacture, and (iii) process validation to be supplied in a separate document directly to the competent authorities by the manufacturer of the active substance as an Active Substance Master File.
In this case, the manufacturer shall, however, provide the applicant with all of the data, which may be necessary for the latter to take responsibility for the medicinal product.
Demonstration of compliance with the said Note for Guidance can be done by submitting either, preferably a certificate of suitability to the relevant monograph of the European Pharmacopoeia that has been granted by the European Directorate for the Quality of Medicines or by the supply of scientific data to substantiate this compliance. (10) For adventitious agents, information assessing the risk with respect to potential contamination with adventitious agents, whether they are non-viral or viral, as laid down in relevant guidelines as well as in relevant general monograph and general chapter of the European Pharmacopoeia, shall be provided. (11) Any special apparatus and equipment, which may be used at any stage of the manufacturing process and control operations of the medicinal product, shall be described in adequate details. (12) Where applicable and if needed, a CE marking which is required by Community legislation on medical devices shall be provided.
Active substance(s) 3.2.1.1.
A list shall be provided of physicochemical and other relevant properties of the active substance, including biological activity for biological medicinal products.
b) For the purposes of this Annex, starting materials shall mean all the materials from which the active substance is manufactured or extracted.
For biological medicinal products, starting materials shall mean any substance of biological origin such as micro-organisms, organs and tissues of either plant or animal origin, cells or fluids (including blood or plasma) of human or animal origin, and biotechnological cell constructs (cell substrates, whether they are recombinant or not, including primary cells).
A biological substance is a substance that is produced by or extracted from a biological source and that needs for its characterisation and the determination of its quality a combination of physico-chemical-biological testing, together with the production process and its control.
The following shall be considered as biological medicinal products: immunological medicinal products and medicinal products derived from human blood and human plasma as defined, respectively in paragraphs (4) and (10) of Article 1; medicinal products falling within the scope of Part A of the Annex to Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93; advanced therapy medicinal products as defined in Part IV of this Annex.
To adequately describe the manufacturing process and process controls, appropriate information as laid down in guidelines published by the Agency shall be provided.
b) All materials needed in order to manufacture the active substance(s) shall be listed, identifying where each material is used in the process.
The name, address, and responsibility of each manufacturer, including contractors, and each proposed production site or facility involved in manufacturing and testing shall be provided.
c) For biological medicinal products, the following additional requirements shall apply.
Regarding the specific measures for the prevention of the Transmission of animal Spongiform Encephalopathies, the applicant must demonstrate that the active substance complies with the Note for Guidance on Minimising the Risk of Transmitting Animal Spongiform Encephalopathy Agents via Medicinal Products and its updates, published by the Commission in the Official Journal of the European Union.
For medicinal products derived from human blood or plasma, the origin and the criteria and procedures for collection, transportation and storage of the starting material shall be described and documented in accordance with provisions laid down in Part III of this Annex.
Characterisation of the active substance(s) Data highlighting the structure and other characteristics of the active substance(s) shall be provided.
Control of active substance(s) Detailed information on the specifications used for routine control of active substance(s), justification for the choice of these specifications, methods of analysis and their validation shall be provided.
Reference standards or materials Reference preparations and standards shall be identified and described in detail.
Where relevant, chemical and biological reference material of the European Pharmacopoeia shall be used. 3.2.1.6.
The %quot%usual terminology%quot%, to be used in describing the constituents of medicinal products, shall mean, notwithstanding the application of the other provisions in Article 8 (3) (c): - in respect of substances which appear in the European Pharmacopoeia or, failing this, in the national pharmacopoeia of one of the Member States, the main title at the head of the monograph in question, with reference to the pharmacopoeia concerned, - in respect of other substances, the international non-proprietary name (INN) recommended by the World Health Organisation, or, failing this, the exact scientific designation; substances not having an international non-proprietary name or an exact scientific designation shall be described by a statement of how and from what they were prepared, supplemented, where appropriate, by any other relevant details, - in respect of colouring matter, designation by the %quot%E%quot% code assigned to them in Council Directive 78/25/EEC of 12 December 1977 on the approximation of the rules of the Member States concerning the colouring matters authorised for use in medicinal products(9) and/or European Parliament and Council Directive 94/36/EC of 30 June 1994 on colours for use in foodstuffs(10).
For medicinal products containing an active substance, which is the subject of an application for marketing authorisation in any Member State for the first time, the quantitative statement of an active substance, which is a salt or hydrate shall be systematically expressed in terms of the mass of the active entity or entities in the molecule.
All subsequently authorised medicinal products in the Member States shall have their quantitative composition stated in the same way for the same active substance.
The studies described in this chapter are distinct from routine control tests conducted according to specifications.
Additional supportive data, where appropriate, shall be referenced to the relevant chapters of Module 4 (Non Clinical Study Reports) and Module 5 (Clinical Study Reports) of the marketing authorisation application dossier.
c) A description of the development of the finished product shall be provided, taking into consideration the proposed route of administration and usage.
f) The selection and optimisation of the manufacturing process as well as differences between the manufacturing process(es) used to produce pivotal clinical batches and the process used for manufacturing the proposed finished medicinal product shall be provided.
The name, address, and responsibility of each manufacturer, including contractors, and each proposed production site or facility involved in manufacturing and testing shall be provided.
c) Description, documentation, and results of the validation studies for critical steps or critical assays used in the manufacturing process shall be provided. 3.2.2.4.
This information shall be formatted in the same order as the chapter devoted to Active Substance(s) of Module 3.
Additional information on toxicity studies with the novel excipient shall be provided in Module 4 of the dossier.
Clinical studies shall be provided in Module 5. 3.2.2.5.
Control of the finished medicinal product For the control of the finished medicinal product, a batch of a medicinal product is an entity which comprises all the units of a pharmaceutical form which are made from the same initial quantity of material and have undergone the same series of manufacturing and/or sterilisation operations or, in the case of a continuous production process, all the units manufactured in a given period of time.
Unless there is appropriate justification, the maximum acceptable deviation in the active substance content of the finished product shall not exceed +- 5 % at the time of manufacture.
Reference standards or materials Reference preparations and standards used for testing of the finished medicinal product shall be identified and described in detail, if not previously provided in the section related to the active substance. 3.2.2.7.
MODULE 4: NON-CLINICAL REPORTS 4.1.
Format and Presentation The general outline of Module 4 is as follows: - Table of contents - Study reports - Pharmacology - Primary Pharmaco-dynamics - Secondary Pharmaco-dynamics - Safety Pharmacology - Pharmaco-dynamic Interactions - Pharmaco-kinetics - Analytical Methods and Validation Reports - Absorption - Distribution - Metabolism - Excretion - Pharmaco-kinetic Interactions (non-clinical) - Other Pharmaco-kinetic Studies - Toxicology - Single-Dose Toxicity - Repeat-Dose Toxicity - Genotoxicity - In vitro - In vivo (including supportive toxico-kinetics evaluations) - Carcinogenicity - Long-term studies - Short- or medium-term studies - Other studies - Reproductive and Developmental Toxicity - Fertility and early embryonic development - Embryo-fetal development - Prenatal and postnatal development - Studies in which the offspring (juvenile animals) are dosed and/or further evaluated - Local Tolerance - Other Toxicity Studies - Antigenicity - Immuno-toxicity - Mechanistic studies - Dependence - Metabolites - Impurities - Other - Literature references 4.2.
All results must be reliable and of general applicability.
Where possible, recognised and validated assays, both in vivo and in vitro, shall be used.
Toxicology a) Single-dose toxicity A single-dose toxicity test shall mean a qualitative and quantitative study of the toxic reactions, which may result from a single administration of the active substance or substances contained in the medicinal product, in the proportions and physico-chemical state in which they are present in the actual product.
The single-dose toxicity test must be carried out in accordance with the relevant guidelines published by the Agency.
d) Carcino-genicity Tests to reveal carcinogenic effects shall normally be required: 1.
These studies shall be performed for any medicinal product whose expected clinical use is for a prolonged period of a patient's life, either continuously or repeatedly in an intermittent manner. 2.
If such a medicinal product is intended to be administered chronically to humans a chronic study may be necessary to detect early tumorigenic effects.
f) Local tolerance The purpose of local tolerance studies is to ascertain whether medicinal products (both active substances and excipients) are tolerated at sites in the body, which may come into contact with the medicinal product as a result of its administration in clinical use.
MODULE 5: CLINICAL STUDY REPORTS 5.1.
Format and Presentation The general outline of Module 5 is as follows: - Table of contents for clinical study reports - Tabular listing of all clinical studies - Clinical study reports - Reports of Bio-pharmaceutical Studies - Bio-availability Study Reports - Comparative Bio-availability and Bio-equivalence Study Reports - In vitro - In vivo Correlation Study Report - Reports of Bio-analytical and Analytical Methods - Reports of Studies Pertinent to Pharmaco-kinetics Using Human Bio-materials - Plasma Protein Binding Study Reports - Reports of Hepatic Metabolism and Interaction Studies - Reports of Studies Using Other Human Bio-materials - Reports of Human Pharmaco-kinetic Studies - Healthy subjects Pharmaco-kinetics and Initial Tolerability Study Reports - Patient Pharmaco-kinetics and Initial Tolerability Study Reports - Intrinsic Factor Pharmaco-kinetics Study Reports - Extrinsic Factor Pharmaco-kinetics Study Reports - Population Pharmaco-kinetics Study Reports - Reports of Human Pharmaco-dynamic Studies - Healthy Subject Pharmaco-dynamic and Pharmaco-kinetics/Pharmaco-dynamic Study Reports - Patient Pharmaco-dynamic and Pharmaco-kinetics/Pharmaco-dynamic Studies Study Reports - Reports of Efficacy and Safety Studies - Study Reports of Controlled Clinical Studies Pertinent to the Claimed Indication - Study Reports of Uncontrolled Clinical Studies - Reports of Analyses of Data from More than One Study including any formal integrated analyses, meta-analyses and bridging analyses - Other Study Reports - Reports of Post-marketing Experience - Literature references 5.2.
Consequently, an essential requirement is that the results of all clinical trials should be communicated, both favourable and unfavourable.
b) Clinical trials must always be preceded by adequate pharmacological and toxicological tests, carried out on animals in accordance with the requirements of Module 4 of this Annex.
c) Marketing authorisation holders must arrange for essential clinical trial documents (including case report forms) other than subject's medical files, to be kept by the owners of the data: - for at least 15 years after completion or discontinuation of the trial, - or for at least two years after the granting of the last marketing authorisation in the European Community and when there are no pending or contemplated marketing applications in the European Community, - or for at least two years after formal discontinuation of clinical development of the investigational product.
e) The particulars of clinical trials referred to above shall be forwarded to the competent authorities.
In addition, an assessment of bio-availability shall be undertaken where necessary to demonstrate bio-equivalence for the medicinal products referred to in Article 10 (1) (a). 5.2.2.
Reports of human pharmaco-kinetic studies a) The following pharmaco-kinetic characteristics shall be described: - absorption (rate and extent), - distribution, - metabolism, - excretion.
Pharmaco-kinetic interactions between the active substance and other medicinal products or substances shall be investigated. 5.2.4.
Reports of human pharmaco-dynamic studies a) The pharmaco-dynamic action correlated to the efficacy shall be demonstrated including: - the dose-response relationship and its time course, - justification for the dosage and conditions of administration, - the mode of action, if possible.
Pharmaco-dynamic interactions between the active substance and other medicinal products or substances shall be investigated. 5.2.5.
Reports of efficacy and safety studies 5.2.5.1.
The implication of the safety evaluation for the possible uses of the medicinal product shall be described. 5.2.5.2.
Study reports of uncontrolled clinical studies reports of analyses of data from more than one study and other clinical study reports These reports shall be provided. 5.2.6.
Reports of post-marketing experience If the medicinal product is already authorised in third countries, information shall be given in respect of adverse reactions of the medicinal product concerned and medicinal products containing the same active substance(s), in relation to the usage rates if possible. 5.2.7.
PART II SPECIFIC MARKETING AUTHORISATION DOSSIERS AND REQUIREMENTS Some medicinal products present specific features which are such that all the requirements of the marketing authorisation application dossier as laid down in Part I of this Annex need to be adapted.
WELL-ESTABLISHED MEDICINAL USE For medicinal products the active substance(s) of which has/have a %quot%well-established medicinal use%quot% as referred to Article 10(1)(a)(ii), with recognised efficacy and an acceptable level of safety, the following specific rules shall apply.
The applicant shall submit Modules 1, 2 and 3 as described in part I of this Annex.
For Modules 4 and 5, a detailed scientific bibliography shall address non-clinical and clinical characteristics.
The following specific rules shall apply in order to demonstrate the well-established medicinal use: a) Factors which have to be taken into account in order to establish a well-established medicinal use of constituents of medicinal products are: - the time over which a substance has been used, - quantitative aspects of the use of the substance, - the degree of scientific interest in the use of the substance (reflected in the published scientific literature) and - the coherence of scientific assessments.
Therefore different periods of time may be necessary for establishing well-established use of different substances.
In any case, however, the period of time required for establishing a well established medicinal use of a constituent of a medicinal product must not be less than one decade from the first systematic and documented use of that substance as a medicinal product in the Community.
b) The documentation submitted by the applicant should cover all aspects of the safety and/or efficacy assessment and must include or refer to a review of the relevant literature, taking into account pre- and post-marketing studies and published scientific literature concerning experience in the form of epidemiological studies and in particular of comparative epidemiological studies.
e) Post-marketing experience with other products containing the same constituents is of particular importance and applicants should put a special emphasis on this issue. 2.
generics) shall contain the data described in Modules 1, 2 and 3 of Part I of this Annex together with data showing bio-availability and bio-equivalence with the original medicinal product provided the latter is not a biological medicinal product (see Part II, 4 Similar biological medicinal products).
Where a medicinal product is intended for a different therapeutic use or presented in a different pharmaceutical form or to be administered by different routes or in different doses or with a different posology, the results of appropriate toxicological and pharmacological tests and/or of clinical trials shall be provided. 4.
When a biological medicinal product as defined in Part I, paragraph 3.2 of this Annex, which refers to an original medicinal product having been granted a marketing authorisation in the Community, is submitted for a marketing authorisation by an independent applicant after the expiry of data protection period, the following approach shall be applied. - Information to be supplied shall not be limited to Modules 1, 2 and 3 (pharmaceutical, chemical and biological data), supplemented with bio-equivalence and bio-availability data.
FIXED COMBINATION MEDICINAL PRODUCTS Applications based upon Article 10 (1) (b) shall relate to new medicinal products made of at least two active substances not previously authorised as a fixed combination medicinal product.
These obligations may include the following: - the applicant shall complete an identified programme of studies within a time period specified by the competent authority, the results of which shall form the basis of a reassessment of the benefit/risk profile, - the medicinal product in question may be supplied on medical prescription only and may in certain cases be administered only under strict medical supervision, possibly in a hospital and in the case of a radio-pharmaceutical, by an authorised person, - the package leaflet and any medical information shall draw the attention of the medical practitioner to the fact that the particulars available concerning the medicinal product in question are as yet inadequate in certain specified respects. 7.
MIXED MARKETING AUTHORISATION APPLICATIONS Mixed marketing-authorisation applications shall mean marketing-authorisation application dossiers where Module 4 and/or 5 consists of a combination of reports of limited non-clinical and/or clinical studies carried out by the applicant and of bibliographical references.
BIOLOGICAL MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 1.1.
Plasma-derived medicinal product For medicinal products derived from human blood or plasma and by derogation from the provisions of Module 3, the dossier requirements mentioned in %quot%Information related to the starting and raw materials%quot%, for starting materials made of human blood/plasma may be replaced by a Plasma Master File certified in accordance with this Part.
a) Principles For the purposes of this Annex: - Plasma Master File shall mean a stand-alone documentation, which is separate from the dossier for marketing authorisation which provides all relevant detailed information on the characteristics of the entire human plasma used as a starting material and/or a raw material for the manufacture of sub/intermediate fractions, constituents of the excipient and active substance(s), which are part of medicinal products or medical devices referred to in Directive 2000/70/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 November 2000 amending Council Directive 93/42/EC as regards medical devices incorporating stable derivatives of human blood or human plasma(11). - Every centre or establishment for fractionation/processing of human plasma shall prepare and keep updated the set of detailed relevant information referred to in the Plasma Master File. - The Plasma Master File shall be submitted to the Agency or to the competent authority by the applicant for a marketing authorisation or the holder of the marketing authorisation.
Where the applicant for a marketing authorisation or the marketing authorisation holder differs from the holder of the Plasma Master File, the Plasma Master File shall be made available to the applicant or marketing authorisation holder for submission to the competent authority.
In any case, the applicant or marketing authorisation holder shall take responsibility for the medicinal product. - The competent authority that is evaluating the marketing authorisation shall await for the Agency to issue the certificate before deciding on the application. - Any marketing authorisation dossier containing a human plasma-derived constituent shall refer to the Plasma Master File corresponding to the plasma used as a starting/raw material.
b) Content In accordance with the provisions of Article 109, as amended by Directive 2002/98/EC, which refers to the requirements for donors and the testing of donations, the Plasma Master File shall include information on the plasma used as starting/raw material, in particular: (1) Plasma origin (i) information on centres or establishments in which blood/plasma collection is carried out, including inspection and approval, and epidemiological data on blood transmissible infections. (ii) information on centres or establishments in which testing of donations and plasma pools is carried out, including inspection and approval status. (iii) selection/exclusion criteria for blood/plasma donors. (iv) system in place which enables the path taken by each donation to be traced from the blood/plasma collection establishment through to finished products and vice versa. (2) Plasma quality and safety (i) compliance with European Pharmacopoeia Monographs. (ii) testing of blood/plasma donations and pools for infectious agents, including information on test methods and, in the case of plasma pools, validation data on the tests used. (iii) technical characteristics of bags for blood and plasma collection, including information on anticoagulants solutions used. (iv) conditions of storage and transport of plasma. (v) procedures for any inventory hold and/or quarantine period. (vi) characterisation of the plasma pool. (3) System in place between the plasma-derived medicinal product manufacturer and/or plasma fractionator/processor on the one hand, and blood/plasma collection and testing centres or establishments on the other hand, which defines the conditions of their interaction and their agreed specifications.
In addition, the Plasma Master File shall provide a list of the medicinal products for which the Plasma Master File is valid, whether the medicinal products have been granted a marketing authorisation or are in the process of being granted such an authorisation, including medicinal products referred to in Article 2 of Directive 2001/20/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council relating to the implementation of good clinical practice in the conduct of clinical trials on medicinal products for human use.
c) Evaluation and Certification - For medicinal products not yet authorised, the marketing authorisation applicant shall submit a full dossier to a competent authority, which shall be accompanied by a separate Plasma Master File where one does not already exist. - The Plasma Master File is subject to a scientific and technical evaluation carried out by the Agency.
A positive evaluation shall result in a certificate of compliance with Community legislation for the Plasma Master File, which shall be accompanied by the evaluation report.
The certificate issued shall apply throughout the Community. - The Plasma Master File shall be updated and re-certified on an annual basis. - Changes subsequently introduced to the terms of a Plasma Master File must follow evaluation procedure laid down by Commission Regulation (EC) No 542/95(12) concerning the examination of variations to the terms of a marketing authorisation falling within the scope of Council regulation (EEC) No 2309/93 of 22 July 1993 laying down Community procedures for the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use and establishing a European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products(13).
Conditions for the assessment of these changes are laid down by Regulation (EC) No 1085/2003. - As a second step to the provisions in the first, second, third and fourth indents, the competent authority that will grant or has granted the marketing authorisation shall take into account the certification, re-certification or variation of the Plasma Master File on the concerned medicinal product(s). - By derogation from the provisions of the second indent of the present point (evaluation and certification), where a Plasma Master File corresponds only to blood/plasma-derived medicinal products the marketing authorisation of which is restricted to a single Member State, the scientific and technical evaluation of the said Plasma Master File shall be carried out by the national competent authority of that Member State. 1.2.
Vaccines For vaccines for human use and by derogation from the provisions of Module 3 on %quot%Active substance(s)%quot%, the following requirements when based on the use of a Vaccine Antigen Master File system shall apply.
a) Principles For the purposes of this Annex: - Vaccine Antigen Master File shall mean a stand-alone part of the marketing authorisation application dossier for a vaccine, which contains all relevant information of biological, pharmaceutical and chemical nature concerning each of the active substances, which are part of this medicinal product.
b) Content The Vaccine Antigen Master File shall contain the following information extracted from the relevant part (Active substance) of Module 3 on %quot%Quality Data%quot% as delineated in Part I of this Annex: Active Substance 1.
Characterisation of the active substance 4.
Quality control of the active substance 5.
Stability of the active substance.
c) Evaluation and Certification - For novel vaccines, which contain a novel vaccine antigen, the applicant shall submit to a competent authority a full marketing-authorisation application dossier including all the Vaccine Antigen Master Files corresponding to each single vaccine antigen that is part of the novel vaccine where no master file already exists for the single vaccine antigen.
The certificate shall apply throughout the Community. - The provisions of the first indent shall also apply to every vaccine, which consists of a novel combination of vaccine antigens, irrespective of whether or not one or more of these vaccine antigens are part of vaccines already authorised in the Community. - Changes to the content of a Vaccine Antigen Master File for a vaccine authorised in the Community shall be subject to a scientific and technical evaluation carried out by the Agency in accordance with the procedure laid down in Commission Regulation (EC) No 1085/2003.
The certificate issued shall apply throughout the Community. - By derogation from the provisions of the first, second and third indents of the present point (evaluation and certification), where a Vaccine Antigen Master File corresponds only to a vaccine which is the subject of a marketing authorisation which has not been/will not be granted according to a Community procedure, and, provided the authorised vaccine includes vaccine antigens which have not been evaluated through a Community procedure, the scientific and technical evaluation of the said Vaccine Antigen Master File and its subsequent changes, shall be carried out by the national competent authority that has granted the marketing authorisation. - As a second step to the provisions in the first, second, third and fourth indents, the competent authority that will grant or has granted the marketing authorisation shall take into account the certification, re-certification or variation of the Vaccine Antigen Master File on the concerned medicinal product(s). 2.
d) Considerations on chemical/radiochemical purity and its relationship to bio-distribution shall be provided.
e) Radio-nuclide purity, radiochemical purity and specific activity shall be described.
Module 4 It is appreciated that toxicity may be associated with a radiation dose.
Module 5 The results of clinical trials shall be provided where applicable otherwise justified in the clinical overviews. 2.2.
Module 4 Concerning single dose and repeat dose toxicity, the results of studies carried out in conformity with the provisions related to good laboratory practice laid down in Council Directives 87/18/EEC and 88/320/EEC shall be provided, unless otherwise justified.
Module 5 Clinical information generated from clinical studies using on the precursor itself is not considered to be relevant in the specific case of a radio-pharmaceutical precursor intended solely for radio-labelling purposes.
HOMEOPATHIC MEDICINAL PRODUCTS This section sets out specific provisions on the application of Modules 3 and 4 to homeopathic medicinal products as defined in Article 1(5).
Module 3 The provisions of Module 3 shall apply to the documents submitted in accordance with Article 15 in the simplified registration of homeopathic medicinal products referred to in Article 14(1) as well as to the documents for authorisation of other homeopathic medicinal products referred to in Article 16(1) with the following modifications.
In case dilutions are involved, these dilution steps should be done in accordance with the homeopathicmanufacturing methods laid down in the relevant monograph of the European Pharmacopoeia or, in absence thereof, by an official pharmacopoeia of a Member State.
Module 4 The provisions of Module 4 shall apply to the simplified registration of homeopathic medicinal products referred to in Article 14(1) with the following specifications.
Module 3 The provisions of Module 3, including compliance with monograph(s) of the European Pharmacopoeia, shall apply to the authorisation of herbal medicinal products.
The following aspects specific to herbal medicinal products shall be considered: (1) Herbal substances and herbal preparations For the purposes of this Annex the terms %quot%herbal substances and preparations%quot% shall be considered equivalent to the terms %quot%herbal drugs and herbal drug preparations%quot%, as defined in the European Pharmacopoeia.
To document the section of the structure for herbal substance(s) and herbal preparation(s) where applicable, the physical form, the description of the constituents with known therapeutic activity or markers (molecular formula, relative molecular mass, structural formula, including relative and absolute stereo-chemistry, the molecular formula, and the relative molecular mass) as well as other constituent(s) shall be provided.
To document the section on the manufacturer of the herbal substance, the name, address, and responsibility of each supplier, including contractors, and each proposed site or facility involved in production/collection and testing of the herbal substance shall be provided, where appropriate.
To document the section on the manufacturer of the herbal preparation, the name, address, and responsibility of each manufacturer, including contractors, and each proposed manufacturing site or facility involved in manufacturing and testing of the herbal preparation shall be provided, where appropriate.
With respect to the manufacturing process development, a brief summary describing the development of the herbal substance(s) and herbal preparation(s) where applicable shall be provided, taking into consideration the proposed route of administration and usage.
Results comparing the phyto-chemical composition of the herbal substance(s) and herbal preparation(s) where applicable used in supporting bibliographic data and the herbal substance(s) and herbal preparation(s), where applicable, contained as active substance(s) in the herbal medicinal product applied for shall be discussed, where appropriate.
The specifications for the herbal substance(s) and herbal preparation(s) where applicable shall be provided.
Where the herbal substance or the herbal preparation is the subject of a monograph, the applicant can apply for a certificate of suitability that was granted by the European Directorate for the Quality of Medicines. (2) Herbal Medicinal Products With respect to the formulation development, a brief summary describing the development of the herbal medicinal product should be provided, taking into consideration the proposed route of administration and usage.
Results comparing the phyto-chemical composition of the products used in supporting bibliographic data and the herbal medicinal product applied for shall be discussed, where appropriate. 5.
The applicant shall then justify in the non-clinical and clinical summaries the reasons for which it is not possible to provide the complete information and shall provide a justification of the benefit/risk balance for the orphan medicinal product concerned. - When an applicant for an marketing authorisation for an orphan medicinal product invokes the provisions of Article 10 (1)(a)(ii) and Part II-1 of this Annex (well-established medicinal use), the systematic and documented use of the concerned substance can refer - as way of derogation - to the use of that substance in accordance with the provisions of Article 5 of this Directive.
PART IV ADVANCED THERAPY MEDICINAL PRODUCTS Advanced therapy medicinal products are based on manufacturing processes focussed on various gene transfer-produced bio-molecules, and/or biologically advanced therapeutic modified cells as active substances or part of active substances.
For those medicinal products the presentation of the Marketing Authorisation application dossier shall fulfil the format requirements as described in Part I of this Annex.
The information concerning the environmental risk should appear in the Annex to Module 1. 1.
Diversity of gene therapy medicinal products a) Gene therapy medicinal products based on allogeneic or xenogeneic cells The vector is ready-prepared and stored before its transfer into the host cells.
Additional steps may be carried out in order to obtain the finished product.
b) Gene therapy medicinal products using autologous human cells The active substance is a batch of ready-prepared vector stored before its transfer into the autologous cells.
Additional steps may be carried out in order to obtain the finished medicinal product.
c) Administration of ready-prepared vectors with inserted (prophylactic, diagnostic or therapeutic) genetic material The active substance is a batch of ready-prepared vector.
Additional steps may be carried out in order to obtain the finished medicinal product.
Depending on the type of gene therapy medicinal product, the route of administration and conditions of use may necessitate an ex vivo treatment of the cells of the patient (see 1.1.b).
For cells of animal origin, detailed information related to the following items shall be provided: - Sourcing of the animals - Animal husbandry and care - Transgenic animals (methods of creation, characterisation of transgenic cells, nature of the inserted gene) - Measures to prevent and monitor infections in the source/donor animals - Testing for infectious agents - Facilities - Control of starting and raw materials.
E.g., the presence of replication competent virus in stocks of non-replication competent viral vectors must be excluded. 2.
As for other medicinal products, the three elements of the manufacturing process are identified: - starting materials: materials from which the active substance is manufactured, i.e., organs, tissues, body fluids or cells; - active substance: manipulated cells, cell lysates, proliferating cells and cells used in conjunction with inert matrixes and medical devices; - finished medicinal products: active substance formulated in its final immediate container for the intended medical use.
b) Information related to the starting materials of active substance(s) 1.
Human somatic cells Human somatic cell therapy medicinal products are made of a defined number (pool) of viable cells, which are derived from a manufacturing process starting either at the level of organs or tissues retrieved from a human being, or, at the level of a well defined cell bank system where the pool of cells relies on continuous cell lines.
For the purposes of this chapter, active substance shall mean the seed pool of human cells and finished medicinal product shall mean seed pool of human cells formulated for the intended medical use.
Animal somatic cells (xenogeneic) Detailed information related to the following items shall be provided: - Sourcing of the animals - Animal husbandry and care - Genetically modified animals (methods of creation, characterisation of transgenic cells, nature of the inserted or excised (knock out) gene) - Measures to prevent and monitor infections in the source/donor animals - Testing for infectious agents including vertically transmitted micro-organisms (also endogenous retro viruses) - Facilities - Cell banking systems - Control of starting and raw materials.
a) Information on the manufacturing process of the active substance(s) and the finished product The different steps of the manufacturing process such as organ/tissue dissociation, selection of the cell population of interest, in vitro cell culture, cell transformation either by physico-chemical agents or gene transfer shall be documented.
b) Characterisation of active substance(s) All of the relevant information on the characterisation of the cell population of interest in terms of identity (species of origin, banding cytogenetics, morphological analysis), purity (adventitious microbial agents and cellular contaminants), potency (defined biological activity), and suitability (karyology and tumorigenicity tests) for the intended medicinal use shall be provided.
SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS FOR GENE THERAPY AND SOMATIC CELL THERAPY (HUMAN AND XENOGENEIC) MEDICINAL PRODUCTS REGARDING MODULES 4 AND 5 3.1.
Module 4 For gene and somatic cell therapy medicinal products, it is recognised that conventional requirements as laid down in Module 4 for non-clinical testing of medicinal products may not always be appropriate due to unique and diverse structural and biological properties of the products in question, including high degree of species specificity, subject specificity, immunological barriers and differences in pleiotropic responses.
It may be necessary to identify or develop new animal models in order to assist in the extrapolation of specific findings on functional endpoints and toxicity to in vivo activity of the products in human beings.
Module 5 The efficacy of advanced therapy medicinal products must be demonstrated as described in Module 5.
Special risks associated with such products arising from potential contamination with infectious agents must be addressed in the application for marketing authorisation for advanced therapy medicinal products.
The assessment of the efficacy and safety of an advanced therapy medicinal product must include the careful description and evaluation of the therapeutic procedure as a whole, including special ways of administration, (such as transfection of cells ex vivo, in vitro manipulation, or use of interventional techniques), and testing of the possible associated regimens (including immuno-suppressive, antiviral, cytotoxic treatment).
The whole procedure must be tested in clinical trials and described in the product information. 3.2.2.
The risk can be minimised, however, by appropriate measures as described in Module 3.
The measures included in the production process must be complemented with accompanied testing methods, quality control processes and by appropriate surveillance methods that must be described in Module 5.
In this respect, detailed information related to the following items shall be provided according to specific guidelines: - Sourcing of the animals - Animal husbandry and care - Genetically modified animals (methods of creation, characterisation of transgenic cells, nature of the inserted or excised (knock out) gene) - Measures to prevent and monitor infections in the source/donor animals - Testing for infectious agents - Facilities - Control of starting and raw materials - Traceability. (1) International Conference on Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Registration of Pharmaceuticals for Human Use. (2) OJ L 193, 17.7.1991, p. 30. (3) OJ L 121, 1.5.2001, p. 34. (4) OJ L 15, 17.1.1987, p. 29. (5) OJ L 145, 11.6.1988, p. 35. (6) See p. 1 of this Official Journal. (7) See p. 24 of this Official Journal. (8) OJ L 106, 17.4.2001, p. 1. (9) OJ L 11, 14.1.1978, p. 18. (10) OJ L 237, 10.9.1994, p. 13. (11) OJ L 313, 13.12.2000, p. 22. (12) OJ L 55, 11.3.1995, p. 15. (13) OJ L 214, 24.8.1993, p. 1.%quot%
