Articles 4, 5, 6 and 7 become Articles 3, 4, 5 and 6 respectively. 3.
A single lamp %quot%A single lamp%quot% also means any combination of two or more lamps, whether identical or not, having the same function and emitting light of the same colour, if it comprises devices, the projection of whose aggregate illuminating surfaces in a given transverse plane occupies 60 % or more of the area of the smallest rectangle circumscribing the projections of those illuminating surfaces, provided that such combination is, where approval is required, approved as a single lamp.
No red light emitted from a lamp as defined in 1.5 shall be visible towards the front and no white light emitted from a lamp as defined in 1.5 other than from the reversing lamp shall be visible towards the rear.
When the concealment device has a temperature of - 30 to + 50 ยบC the headlamp must be capable of reaching the fully-open position within three seconds of initial operation of the control.%quot% After item 3.15.6 the following new item 3.16 shall be added: %quot%3.16.
Number of lamps The number of lamps mounted on the vehicle shall be equal to the number(s) specified in subparagraph 2 of 4.1 to 4.17.%quot% Item 4.1.4.3 is hereby amended as follows: %quot%4.1.4.3.
Width: The edge of the illuminating surface furthest from the median longitudinal plane of the vehicle must not be more than 400 mm from the extreme outer edge of the vehicle.
The distance between the inner edges of the two illuminating surfaces shall be not less than 600 mm.
Where the vertical distance between the rear direction-indicator lamp and the corresponding rear position (side) lamp is not more than 300 mm, the distance between the extreme outer edge of the vehicle and the outer edge of the illuminating surface of the rear direction-indicator lamp must not exceed by more than 50 mm the distance between the extreme outer edge of the vehicle and the outer edge of the illuminating surface of the corresponding rear position (side) lamp.
For front direction-indicator lamps the illuminating surface must not be less than 40 mm from the illuminating surface of the dipped-beam headlamps or front fog lamps, if any.
A smaller distance is permitted if the luminous intensity in the reference axis of the direction-indicator lamp is equal to at least 400 cd.
