2000/821/EC: Council Decision of 20 December 2000 on the implementation of a programme to encourage the development, distribution and promotion of European audiovisual works (MEDIA Plus - Development, Distribution and Promotion) (2001-2005) Council Decision of 20 December 2000 on the implementation of a programme to encourage the development, distribution and promotion of European audiovisual works (MEDIA Plus - Development, Distribution and Promotion) (2001-2005) (2000/821/EC) THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular Article 157(3) thereof, Having regard to the proposal from the Commission, Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament, Having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee, Whereas: (1) From 6 to 8 April 1998, the Commission, in cooperation with the Presidency-in-office, held a European audiovisual conference on %quot%Challenges and opportunities of the digital age%quot% in Birmingham.
The professionals in the audiovisual sector should be informed of the various support arrangements available to them within the framework of the European Union. (23) In accordance with the conclusions of the Lisbon European Council, the Council and Commission are to report by the end of 2000 on the ongoing review of EIB and EIF financial instruments in order to redirect funding towards business start-ups, high-tech firms and micro-enterprises, as well as other risk capital initiatives and guarantee arrangements proposed by the EIB and the EIF.
In this connection, particular attention should be paid to the audiovisual industry, in order to improve its access to capital markets and increase its competitiveness. (24) In its report to the European Council, entitled %quot%Job Opportunities in the Information Society%quot%, the Commission referred to the major job-creation potential provided by the new audiovisual services. (25) In its Communication on Community policies in support of employment, the Commission recognised the MEDIA II Programme's positive impact on employment in the audiovisual sector. (26) It is appropriate therefore to facilitate the development of investment in the European audiovisual industry and to call on the Member States to encourage job-creation in that industry by various means. (27) The MEDIA Plus programme should allow the establishment of an environment conducive to entrepreneurial skills and investment, so as to guarantee a place for the European audiovisual sector in the global economy and the effective promotion of cultural diversity. (28) The contribution that SMEs can make to the development of the audiovisual sector should be turned to good account. (29) There is a need to improve the conditions for distributing and promoting European cinematographic works on the European and international markets.
A programme, (hereinafter referred to as %quot%the Programme%quot%), is hereby established to encourage the development, distribution and promotion of European audiovisual works within and outside the Community, to run from 1 January 2001 to 31 December 2005, for the purpose of strengthening the European audiovisual industry. 2.
Article 3 Specific objectives of the Programme in the fields of distribution and dissemination In the fields of distribution and dissemination, the specific objectives of the Programme shall be as follows: (a) to strengthen the European distribution sector in the field of cinema by encouraging distributors to invest in the production, acquisition, marketing and promotion of distribution rights and promotion of non-domestic European cinema films; (b) to foster the wider transnational dissemination of non-domestic European films, on the European and international markets, through initiatives to stimulate their distribution and their screening in cinemas, inter alia by encouraging coordinated marketing strategies; (c) to strengthen the distribution sector for European works on media intended for private use, by encouraging distributors to invest in digital technology and in the promotion of non-domestic European works; (d) to promote the movement, in the Community and outside it, of European television programmes produced by independent companies by encouraging cooperation between broadcasters, on one hand, and independent European distributors and producers, on the other hand; (e) to encourage the creation of catalogues of European works in digital format intended for exploitation on new media; (f) to support the linguistic diversity of European audiovisual and cinematographic works.
Article 4 Specific objectives of the Programme in the field of promotion and market access In the field of promotion and market access, the Programme shall aim to: (a) facilitate and encourage the promotion and movement of European audiovisual and cinematographic works at trade shows, fairs and audiovisual festivals in Europe and around the globe, insofar as such events may play an important role in the promotion of European works and the networking of professionals; (b) encourage the networking of European operators, by supporting joint activities on the European and international markets by national public or private promotion bodies.
Article 5 Financial provisions 1.
Community funding shall not exceed 50 % of the cost of operations.
However, in the cases expressly provided for in the Annex, this proportion may reach as much as 60 % of the cost of operations. 2.
Article 6 Financial support Financial support under the Programme may be granted in the form of conditionally repayable advances, or subsidies, as defined in the Annex.
The measures necessary for the implementation of this Decision concerning the matters referred to below shall be adopted in accordance with the management procedure referred to in Article 8(2): (a) the general guidelines for all the measures described in the Annex; (b) the content of the calls for proposals, the definition of the criteria and the procedures for the selection of projects; (c) questions concerning the annual internal breakdown of the Programme resources, including the breakdown between measures in the development, promotion and distribution sectors; (d) the arrangements for monitoring and assessing actions; (e) any proposal for the allocation of Community funds in excess of EUR 200000 in the case of development, or EUR 300000 in the case of distribution and EUR 200000 per beneficiary and per year in the case of promotion.
These thresholds may be reviewed by the Committee in the light of experience; (f) the choice of pilot projects provided for in Article 10. 2.
Where reference is made to this paragraph, Articles 4 and 7 of Decision 1999/468/EC shall apply.
Where reference is made to this paragraph, Articles 3 and 7 of Decision 1999/468/EC shall apply. 4.
Article 9 Consistency and complementarity 1.
Article 10 Pilot projects 1.
Article 11 Opening of the Programme to non-member countries 1.
The Programme shall be open to the participation of the countries which are parties to the Council of Europe Convention on Transfrontier Television other than those referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2, on the basis of supplementary appropriations, in accordance with conditions to be established in the agreements between the interested parties. 4.
The European third countries referred to in paragraph 3 which do not wish to participate fully in the Programme may be eligible for cooperation with the Programme under the conditions set out in this paragraph.
Article 12 Monitoring and evaluation 1.
Article 13 Entry into force This Decision shall take effect on 1 January 2001.
Done at Brussels, 20 December 2000.
Guigou (1) OJ C 283, 6.10.1999, p. 1. (2) OJ L 380, 31.12.1990, p. 37. (3) OJ C 41, 13.2.1996, p. 8. (4) OJ C 347, 18.11.1996, p. 33. (5) OJ L 321, 30.12.1995, p. 25. (6) OJ L 321, 30.12.1995, p. 33. (7) OJ L 298, 17.10.1989, p. 23.
The contribution will generally be limited to 50 % of project costs but may be raised to 60 % for projects which contribute to the enhancement of European linguistic and cultural diversity.
The support thus generated may be used by distributors only for investment in the following: - the coproduction of non-domestic European films; - the acquisition of the screening rights, for example by means of minimum guarantees, of non-domestic European films; - editing costs (copying, dubbing and subtitling), promotion costs and publicity costs for non-domestic European films.
Special attention will be given to audiovisual works that are of interest in enhancing European heritage and linguistic and cultural diversity.
