Annual contributions to the EDF shall be called up in four instalments payable on: - 20 January, - 1 April, - 1 July, - 1 November.
Supplementary contributions for the financial year decided on by the Council in accordance with Article 6(3) of the Internal Agreement shall, unless otherwise decided by the Council, be due and be made within as brief a period as possible which shall be laid down in the decision to call for such contributions and which may not exceed three months. 2.
The Commission shall notify the Member States as soon as possible, not later than the beginning of each financial year, and on the basis of the Council decision referred to in Article 6(1) of the Internal Agreement, of the amount of the instalments of contributions to be paid on each of the due dates.
The Commission shall set the amounts to be paid by each Member State so that they are in proportion to its contributions to the EDF as fixed in Article 1(2) of the Internal Agreement.
The Commission shall inform the Member States of any alteration to the amount of the calls for contributions as soon as possible before the date on which each instalment of contributions is due, on the basis of the cash situation of the EDF and its expenditure estimates for the remainder of the year. 3.
The financial contributions of the Member States shall be expressed in ecus. 2.
The Member States may, however, make actual payments of their contributions in their national currencies. 3.
Financial contributions shall be credited by each Member State to a special account entitled 'Commission of the European Communities - European Development Fund` opened with the bank of issue of that Member State or the financial institution designated by it.
The ecu is the sum of specified amounts of the currencies of the Member States as set out in Council Regulation (EC) No 3320/94 of 22 December 1994 on the consolidation of the existing Community legislation on the definition of the ecu following the entry into force of the Treaty on European Union (5).
Any operations involving conversions of the ecu into a national currency shall, in principle, be effected on the basis of the exchange rate applicable on that day; derogations from this principle may be permitted in duly justified exceptional cases, in accordance with the implementing rules of the Financial Regulation of 21 December 1977 applicable to the general budget of the European Communities (6).
Article 5 In order to make payments provided for in Article 319(1) and (4) of the Convention, the Commission shall open accounts with financial institutions in the ACP States and the OCT, for payments in the national currencies of the ACP States or in the local currencies of the OCT, and in the Member States, for payments in ecus and other currencies.
Subject to Article 319(3) of the Convention, deposits in these accounts shall bear interest.
Subject to Article 192 of the Convention, such interest shall be credited to the account provided for in Article 9(2) of the Internal Agreement.
The Commission shall transfer from the special accounts opened pursuant to Article 3(3) amounts needed to replenish the accounts opened in its name in accordance with Article 5.
The Commission shall endeavour to make any withdrawals from the special accounts referred to in Article 3(3) in such a way as to maintain a distribution of its assets in those accounts corresponding to the proportions in which the various Member States contribute to the EDF.
Article 7 The signatures of the Commission officials and agents who are empowered to carry out operations on the EDF's accounts shall be lodged with the banks concerned when the accounts are opened or, in the case of officials and agents who are authorised subsequently, when they are designated.
This procedure also applies to the lodging of signatures of national and regional authorising officers and their deputies for operations in paying agent accounts opened in the ACP States or the OCT and, where appropriate, in the accounts opened in the Member States.
The financing decisions taken pursuant to Articles 25 to 27 of the Internal Agreement, with regard to aid administered by the Commission, and the financing agreements, have a time limit for starting implementation of the project.
TITLE II FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION OF EDF-APPROPRIATIONS BY THE COMMISSION Section I GENERAL PROVISIONS Article 10 Subject to Article 15(3)(c) and Article 39, the provisions of this Title are not applicable to risk capital and interest rate subsidies managed by the Bank.
The chief authorising officer of the EDF, whose duties are laid down in Article 311 of the Convention, shall be appointed by the Commission. 2.
He may be assisted in his duties by one or more assistant accounting officers appointed, on the basis of a reasoned opinion by the accounting officer, under the same conditions as the accounting officer. 2.
He shall be responsible for their care. 3.
The accounting officer shall be responsible for maintaining the accounts for: (a) the appropriations referred to in Article 1; (b) the commitments referred to in Article 20; (c) the risk capital decisions and interest-rate subsidies referred to in Article 39; (d) payments, revenue and debts. 4.
Article 16 The Court of Auditors shall be notified of the appointment of the chief authorising officer, the accounting officer, the assistant accounting officer and the administrator of advance funds referred to in Article 36 and of the accounting plan referred to in Article 40.
Section II REVENUE AND DEBTS Article 17 1.
The purpose of the approval of the financial controller shall be to establish that: (a) the revenue is booked to the correct item; (b) the order is in order and conforms to the relevant provisions; (c) the supporting documents are in order; (d) the order conforms to the principles of sound financial management; (e) the amount and currency of the revenue are correct.
The purpose of the approval of the financial controller shall be to establish that: (a) the revenue is booked to the correct item; (b) the debt estimate is in order and conforms to the relevant provisions relating to the management of the EDF and all acts made in implementation thereof and to the principles of sound financial management referred to in Article 8.
The Commission shall inform the Court of Auditors of all such decisions within one month. 2.
The purpose of the approval shall be to establish that: (a) the revenue is booked to the correct item; (b) the order is in order and conforms to the relevant provisions; (c) the supporting documents are in order; (d) the debtor is correctly described; (e) the due date is indicated; (f) the order conforms to the principle of sound financial management referred to in Article 8; (g) the amount and currency of the sum to be recovered are correct.
The proposal concerned shall be registered by the accounting officer.
The accounting officer shall do all in his power to ensure that the debts referred to in Article 18 are recovered at the due dates indicated in the recovery orders and shall ensure that the relevant rights of the Community are safeguarded. 3.
Section III COMMITMENT, VALIDATION, AUTHORISATION AND PAYMENT OF EXPENDITURE 1.
Commitment of expenditure Article 20 1.
All measures which may give rise to expenditure payable by the EDF must be preceded by a proposal for commitment of expenditure from the chief authorising officer and can create legal obligations vis-Ă -vis third parties only after approval by the financial controller of the proposal for commitment and after a Commission financing decision. 2.
Financing decisions taken by the Commission in accordance with Articles 25 to 27 of the Internal Agreement and the provisions authorising it to grant financial aid from the EDF shall give rise to commitments of expenditure.
Proposals for commitments shall be subject to endorsement by the accounting officer after approval by the financial controller and a Commission financing decision.
Assigned funds Article 24 1.
Validation of expenditure Article 25 The validation of expenditure shall be the act whereby the chief authorising officer: (a) verifies the existence of the creditor's claim; (b) determines or verifies the existence and the amount of the sum due; (c) verifies the conditions under which payment falls due.
The nature of the supporting documents to be enclosed with the payment orders and the particulars they shall include shall be such as to make it possible to carry out the checks provided for in Articles 25 and 29. 2.
Authorisation of expenditure Article 27 Authorisation is the act whereby the chief authorising officer, by the issue of a payment order, authorises the accounting officer to pay an item of expenditure which he has validated.
Article 28 The payment order shall state: (a) the item against which payment shall be charged; (b) the amount to be paid, in figures and in words, showing the currency; (c) the name and address of the beneficiary; (d) the bank account; (e) the method of payment; (f) the purpose of the expenditure.
Copies of the supporting documents, certified as true copies by the chief authorising officer or the head of the Commission delegation, may, in duly warranted cases, be accepted in place of the originals.
Should approval be withheld, Article 23 shall apply. 3.
Payment of expenditure Article 31 1.
Article 32 In the event of a substantive error or of the validity of the discharge being contested or of failure to observe the formalities prescribed by this Financial Regulation, the accounting officer shall suspend payment.
Payments effected locally Article 35 1.
In cases where the chief authorising officer has delegated his responsibilities to the head of delegation in accordance with Article 13, the corresponding payments may be effected by an assistant accounting officer, on the spot, appointed under the conditions referred to in Article 15.
The entry in the EDF accounts of the payments effected pursuant to paragraph 1 may also be entrusted to the assistant accounting officer. 3.
Imprest accounts Article 36 1.
Section IV ACCOUNTS Article 37 Accounts shall be kept in ecus by the double entry method and on the basis of the calendar year.
The commitments defined in Article 20(2) shall be recorded in ecus for the value of the financing decisions taken by the Commission. 2.
The assigned funds defined in Article 24 shall be recorded in ecus at the equivalent of the value of the contracts and estimates concluded by the beneficiary ACP State or OCT or by the Commission in the performance of the project.
This value shall include where appropriate: (a) provision for the payment of (reimbursable) expenses on presentation of supporting documents; (b) provision for the revision of prices and contingencies as defined in EDF-funded contracts; (c) financial provision for exchange rate fluctuations. 3.
That date shall correspond to the date on which the Commission accounts referred to in Article 5 of this Financial Regulation were debited. 4.
The Commission shall keep accounts of the risk capital and interest-rate subsidies administered by the Bank on behalf of the Community. 2.
Before the financing decision is adopted by the Bank's board of directors in accordance with Article 29(3) and (4) of the Internal Agreement, a proposal to enter the decision in the accounts shall be sent to the financial controller and to the accounting officer by the chief authorising officer. 3.
The purpose of the approval of the financial controller shall be to establish that: (a) the expenditure is booked to the correct item; (b) appropriations are available.
This amount shall be adjusted at the end of the contract. 5.
Entries in the accounts shall be made on the basis of an accounting plan comprising a nomenclature of budgetary items which makes a clear distinction between the financial statements and revenue and expenditure accounts. 2.
Article 41 The accounts shall be closed at the end of the financial year to enable the financial statements and revenue and expenditure accounts of the EDF to be drawn up.
Article 43 Financial controllers shall be liable to disciplinary action and, where appropriate, to payment of compensation for any action taken during their terms of office, in particular where they approve expenditure in excess of appropriations.
They shall be liable to disciplinary action and to payment of compensation in respect of any loss or deterioration of the monies, assets and documents in their charge where such loss or deterioration was caused by intentional mistake or was due to serious negligence on their part. 3.
The accounting officer, assistant accounting officers and administrators of advance funds shall insure themselves against any risk they may incur under this Article, and which cannot be covered by the guarantee fund provided for in paragraph 4.
The Commission shall cover the relevant insurance costs. 4.
Article 45 The liability of the chief authorising officer and his deputies, financial controllers, accounting officers and administrators of advance funds to payment of compensation and disciplinary action may be determined in accordance with Articles 22 and 86 to 89 of the Staff Regulations of officials of the European Communities.
Article 46 The Commission shall be allowed a period of two years from the date on which the financial statements are submitted to the Council to take a decision on the final discharge to be given to accounting officers for the transactions relating thereto.
TITLE III IMPLEMENTING MEASURES Section I EDF OPERATIONS ADMINISTERED BY THE COMMISSION 1.
Article 48 Claims for delayed payments for which it is responsible by virtue of Article 319 of the Convention shall be borne by the Commission from the account provided for in Article 9(2) of the Internal Agreement. 2.
Tenders and contracts Article 49 1.
Article 50 The Commission shall inform the Council each year of any contract concluded during that year.
Article 51 Information relating to direct agreement contracts, works, supply and services contracts concluded following restricted invitation to tender or direct labour contracts shall be contained in the annual report to the Council referred to in Article 50.
The payments arrangements and the currency or currencies of payment shall be specified in the wording of the relevant contracts. 2.
The price offered in tenders for contracts financed by the EDF shall take into account the applicable tax arrangements provided for in Articles 308, 309 and 310 of the Convention. 3.
Where payment is made in ecus or in a foreign currency, it shall be made through the intermediary of an approved bank or agency established in a Member State, in an ACP State or in the country where the contractor's registered office is located. 3.
Structural adjustment support Article 53 1.
However, the first half annual instalment in each year shall be reduced by any amount used in advance in the preceding year under Article 194(1) of the Convention.
The second half annual instalment in each year shall be increased by any amount used in advance on the following year under Article 194(1) of the Convention.
Article 55 Where advance use is made of the following year's instalment as provided for in Article 194 of the Convention, the advances referred to in Article 206 of the Convention shall be reduced proportionately.
Article 56 The quarterly report to the Member States on the cash situation of the EDF treasury, provided for in Article 2(1), shall include specific information on the financial situation of the Stabex system.
Article 57 Wherever the calculation of the amount of a transfer or advance requires the conversion of statistics expressed in the national currency of the ACP State concerned, or of any other currency, into ecus, the exchange rate applicable shall be the average annual rate in force in the calendar year to which the statistics concerned refer.
Section II AID MANAGED BY THE BANK Article 58 The Bank shall forward to the Commission at the beginning of each quarter estimates of all amounts expected to be claimed from the EDF in that quarter in respect of the risk capital and interest-rate subsidies that it administers in accordance with Article 10 of the Internal Agreement. 1.
Risk capital Article 59 1.
The Commission shall pay this amount within 21 days of receipt of the request for payment with the same value date as that of the disbursement by the Bank. 3.
The ecu exchange rates to be used by the borrower to calculate the amounts due in respect of products, income and reimbursements from risk capital operations shall be those in force one month before the date of payment. 4.
Amounts due in respect of receipts, income and repayments relating to risk capital operations shall be collected by the Bank on behalf of the Community, in accordance with Article 60.
Article 60 The sums collected by the Bank in the form of receipts, income or repayments from risk-capital operations shall be credited to a special account opened on behalf of the Community for the Member States in proportion to their contributions to the EDF.
The account shall be denominated in ecus and managed by the Bank in accordance with Article 9(1) of the Internal Agreement.
Subsidised loans Article 61 1.
The Commission shall pay in ecus the amount of subsidy, discounted in accordance with the procedures described in paragraph 3, within 21 days of receipt of the request for payment, the value date being that of the disbursement of the relevant loan instalment. 5.
The sums reimbursed to the Commission shall be added to the appropriations available for the financing of interest-rate subsidies provided for in Article 4 of the Internal Agreement. 7.
TITLE IV EXECUTIVE AGENTS 1.
The chief authorising officer Article 62 The chief authorising officer of the EDF, referred to in Article 311 of the Convention, shall take all measures necessary for the implementation of Articles 294 to 307 of the Convention.
The chief authorising officer shall take all measures to ensure that national or regional authorising officers perform the tasks for which they are responsible by virtue of the Convention, and in particular Articles 312 to 315 thereof. 2.
Where the chief authorising officer of the EDF becomes aware of problems in the carrying out of procedures relating to management of EDF resources, he shall, in conjunction with the national or regional authorising officer, make all contacts necessary to remedy the situation and take any steps appropriate, including where the national or regional authorising officer does not or cannot perform the duties incumbent on him under the Convention, temporary replacement of that officer by the chief authorising officer.
Article 64 Transactions relating to the execution of projects shall be carried out by the national or regional authorising officer in close cooperation with the head of delegation in accordance with Articles 313 and 317 of the Convention.
In performing the duties laid down in Article 316 the head of delegation shall comply with this Financial Regulation. 2.
The paying agent Article 65 The relations between the Commission and the paying agents provided for in Article 319 of the Convention shall be the subject of contracts which shall require the prior approval of the financial controller.
TITLE V PRESENTING AND AUDITING ACCOUNTS Article 66 1.
The Commission shall draw up, not later than 1 May each year, the financial statements and the revenue and expenditure accounts of the EDF describing the financial situation of the Fund as at 31 December of the preceding year. 2.
The financial statements shall be drawn up by the accounting officer and include: (a) a balance sheet of the EDF's assets and liabilities at the end of the preceding financial year; (b) a statement of sources and uses of funds covering the preceding financial year; (c) a statement of revenue and payments in the preceding financial year; (d) a table of revenue showing: - estimated revenue for the calendar year, - amendments to the revenue estimates, - entitlements established in the course of the calendar year, - amounts still to be received at the end of the calendar year, - additional revenue; (e) a table of debts showing: - debts still to be recovered at the beginning of the calendar year, - entitlements established in the course of the calendar year, - amounts recovered in the course of the calendar year, - cancellation of established entitlement, - debts still to be recovered at the end of the calendar year; (f) notes indicating which accounting principles were applied in the preparation and presentation of the accounts providing, where appropriate, additional explanations of various headings in the tables referred to in points (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e).
Article 68 Without prejudice to Article 33(5) of the Internal Agreement, the Commission shall forward the financial statements and revenue and expenditure accounts to the European Parliament, the Council and the Court of Auditors not later than 1 May of the following financial year.
Article 69 The Court of Auditors and its Members may seek the assistance of the Court's staff in the discharge of their duties.
Its purpose shall be to establish that all revenue has been received and all expenditure incurred in a lawful and regular manner with regard to the provisions applicable and that the financial management has been sound. 2.
In the performance of its tasks, the Court of Auditors may, under the conditions laid down in paragraph 6, consult all documents and information relating to the financial management of the departments subject to its inspection; it has the power to hear any official responsible for revenue and expenditure operations and to use any of the auditing procedures appropriate to those departments. 3.
The task of establishing that revenue has been received and expenditure incurred in a lawful and regular manner and that the financial management has been sound shall also encompass the utilisation by bodies outside the Commission of Community funds they have received.
The Court of Auditors shall draw up an annual report at the end of each financial year. 2.
The Court of Auditors shall send its annual report, together with the Commission's replies, not later than 30 November, to the Commission and to the authorities responsible for giving discharge pursuant to Article 33(3) of the Internal Agreement, and shall ensure its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Article 73 At the same time as the annual report referred to in Article 71, the Court of Auditors shall provide the European Parliament and the Council with a statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
Before 30 April of the following year, the European Parliament, upon a recommendation from the Council, which shall act by a qualified majority, shall give the Commission discharge in respect of the execution of the financial management of the EDF for the preceding financial year, in accordance with Article 33(3) of the Internal Agreement.
The discharge decision shall include an assessment of the responsibility of the Commission in the execution of the financial management during the preceding period. 3.
The financial controller shall take account of the observations appearing in the decision giving discharge. 4.
The financial statements and the revenue and expenditure accounts for each financial year and the decision giving the discharge shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
TITLE VI GENERAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS Article 75 Unless otherwise specified, references in this Financial Regulation to the provisions of the Convention shall be deemed to refer to the corresponding provisions of Decision 91/482/EEC.
Article 76 This Regulation shall be applicable to the aid specified in the Financial Protocol to the Convention.
Done at Luxembourg, 16 June 1998.
MEACHER (1) OJ L 229, 17. 8. 1991, p. 288. (2) OJ L 263, 19. 9. 1991, p. 1.
Decision as amended by Decision 97/803/EC (OJ L 329, 29. 11. 1997, p. 50). (3) OJ L 382, 31. 12. 1990, p. 3. (4) OJ C 223, 22. 7. 1997, p. 1. (5) OJ L 350, 31. 12. 1994, p. 27. (6) OJ L 356, 31. 12. 1977, p. 1.
Regulation as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 2444/97 (OJ L 340, 11. 12. 1997, p. 1).
