Council Regulation (EC) No 901/2001 of 7 May 2001 imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty on imports of urea originating in Russia Council Regulation (EC) No 901/2001 of 7 May 2001 imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty on imports of urea originating in Russia THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, Having regard to Council Regulation (EC) No 384/96 of 22 December 1995 on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the European Community(1), and in particular Article 11(2) thereof, Having regard to the proposal submitted by the Commission after consulting the Advisory Committee, Whereas: A.
Previous investigations (1) In 1987, the Commission imposed a provisional anti-dumping duty(2) on imports of urea originating, amongst others, in the former Soviet Union.
The amount of the duty imposed was the difference between ECU 115 per tonne and the net, free-at-Community frontier price, before customs clearance, if this price was lower. 2.
Investigations concerning other countries (2) In October 2000 an anti-dumping investigation was initiated concerning imports of urea originating in Belarus, Bulgaria, Croatia, Egypt, Estonia, Lithuania, Libya, Poland, Romania and Ukraine(7).
Present investigation 3.1.
The request was lodged on 3 December 1999 by the European Fertilizer Manufacturers Association (EFMA) on behalf of producers representing a major proportion of Community production of urea (the %quot%product concerned%quot%).
The request was based on the grounds that the expiry of the measures would be likely to result in the continuation or recurrence of dumping and injury to the Community industry. 3.2.
The examination of trends relevant for the assessment of continuation or recurrence of injury (the %quot%period under review%quot%) covered the period from 1 January 1996 up to the end of the IP. 3.4.
All kinds of urea have the same basic physical and chemical characteristics and may be regarded for the purposes of the present review as a single product. (11) The product concerned falls within CN codes 3102 10 10 and 3102 10 90.
One importers' association claimed that urea imported under CN code 3102 10 90 should be excluded from the present review, as there have been no such imports for a number of years. (12) In relation to this claim, it is to be noted that, even if there were no imports for a number of years under CN code 3102 10 90, the product classifiable under this CN code clearly belongs to the single category of product forming the %quot%product concerned%quot% and moreover it cannot be excluded that such imports will be carried out in the future. 2.
Like product (13) The investigation has shown that the product produced and sold by the Community producers on the Community market is alike in all respects to the urea produced in Russia and exported to the Community.
Analogue country (16) Normal value was based, in accordance with Article 2(7) of the basic Regulation, on information obtained in a market economy third country where the product concerned was produced and sold.
In the Notice of Initiation the Commission suggested the Slovak Republic as an appropriate analogue country due to the fact that it was used as an analogue country in the last investigation and that production processes and access to raw materials in the Slovak Republic are comparable to those prevailing in Russia. (17) An importers' association objected to the choice of the Slovak Republic as analogue country for the following reasons: the Slovak Republic, unlike Russia, has no natural gas production.
It was therefore claimed that the use of the Slovak Republic as analogue country would artificially inflate normal value and thus result in an artificially high dumping margin. (18) Secondly, the importers' association submitted that, given the importance of gas in the production of urea, any analogue country in this case should be a gas-producing country.
Nor did the Commission find any indication that this was the case when comparing gas prices in Slovakia during the IP to gas prices in other market economies.
The sole Slovak producer agreed to cooperate in the investigation and it was also established that domestic sales made by the latter producer were representative in comparison with the volume of exports to the Community from Russia. (21) On this basis, it was concluded that the Slovak Republic was an appropriate and not unreasonable choice of analogue country in order to establish normal value for imports of urea originating in Russia. 1.2.
After exclusion of the latter sales, it was established that direct sales by the cooperating Slovak producer were sufficiently representative as they were made in significant quantities, measured against the average volume of exports recorded as sold into the Community by the exporting producers in Russia during the IP. (23) It was then established that these direct sales to unrelated customers could be considered as having been made in the ordinary course of trade, comparing domestic prices and costs of production. (24) Normal value was therefore established as the weighted average of the actual prices of all direct sales to unrelated customers on the Slovak market. 1.3.
Export price (25) As no exporting producers cooperated, the export price was determined on the basis of the facts available, in accordance with Article 18(1) of the basic Regulation.
In this case this was by reference to the average import price reported by Eurostat. 1.4.
In particular, an adjustment to the normal value was made for packing costs while the export price was adjusted for transport costs incurred in Russia and freight from Russia to the Community on the basis of the information contained in the complaint and other available information. 1.5.
Dumping margin (27) In accordance with Article 2(11) of the basic Regulation, the dumping margin was determined by comparing the weighted average normal value in the analogue country with the average export price per tonne based on Eurostat data. (28) The comparison showed the existence of significant dumping (above 35 %).
However, in view of the limited export volume during the IP, it was considered appropriate also to examine whether there was a likelihood of recurrence of dumping in increased export volumes should the existing measures be repealed. 2.
Production capacity and capacity utilisation (31) In the absence of cooperation from the Russian exporters, the Commission, in accordance with Article 18(1) of the basic Regulation, based its analysis on information provided in the review request as well as on information obtained from an independent specialised market study submitted by the complainant in the course of the investigation. (32) According to the abovementioned sources, Russian production capacity for urea in recent years is estimated at around 5300 Ktonnes p.a..
Consequently, the Russian producers would be in a position to produce an additional 1600 Ktonnes p.a., representing 26,5 % of Community consumption in 1999. 2.1.2.
Russian exports to Brazil, Mexico and Turkey (33) As concerns the possibility of increased Russian sales in third country markets, the Commission found that exports of Russian urea to third countries are already taking place.
DEFINITION OF THE COMMUNITY INDUSTRY (39) The investigation established that, during the IP, the 11 applicant Community producers represented more than 85 % of Community production of urea.
Consumption (40) The apparent Community consumption of urea was established on the basis of the sales volumes of the Community industry on the Community market, the sales volume of other Community producers as well as imports into the Community of urea from the country concerned and all other third countries.
Therefore sales of urea produced for and used in the captive market were not in competition with sales of urea produced for and sold in the non-captive market and were thus not likely to be subject to the effects of the dumped imports. (41) On this basis, consumption increased steadily by 25,8 % during the period under review, from around 4,8 million tonnes in 1996 to around 6 million tonnes in the IP. 2.
Imports from the country concerned 2.1.
On the basis of Eurostat figures, after the form of the measure had been changed into a duty in 1995, there was a sharp drop between 1995 and 1996.
It cannot be excluded that the significant increase in exports to the Community from other third countries contributed to this decline. (43) The market share of the imports from the country concerned in the Community decreased from 0,9 % in 1996 to 0,4 % in the IP. 2.2.
Prices (44) The average cif import prices of the imports concerned increased substantially following the imposition of the anti-dumping duty, based on a minimum import price, in 1995.
Production (46) The total production of urea by the Community industry for sale on the Community market, i.e.
A significant increase took place between 1996 and 1997, while production fell slightly between 1998 and the IP. 3.2.
Capacity and capacity utilisation (47) The capacity utilisation rate was relatively stable at around 86 % in 1996 and 1997.
Afterwards it decreased to 84,7 % in 1998 and to 82,5 % during the IP. (48) However, the ammonium used for the production of urea can also be used for the production of other fertilisers.
Sales in the Community (49) The total sales volume of the Community industry on the Community market went up from around 3,2 million tonnes in 1996 to around 3,8 million tonnes in the IP, which represents an increase of 17 %.
Market share (51) In an overall expanding market, despite the increase in sales volumes, the Community industry's market share in the Community market decreased from around 67 % in 1996 to around 63 % in the IP, thus not benefiting from the expansion of the market. 3.6.
Prices (52) The average sales price of the Community industry fell in each year from 1996 until the IP, leading to an overall decrease of almost 40 % between 1996 and the IP, in line with the general price trend in the market.
The declining energy prices (natural gas being the main raw material for the production of urea) may also have had an influence on the sales prices. 3.7.
Profitability and return on investment (53) The profitability of the Community industry, expressed as a percentage of net sales value, decreased steadily between 1996 and the IP.
Profitability became negative in 1998 and the level of losses increased significantly in the IP. (54) The return on investments followed the decreasing trend in profitability during the period under review.
Cash flow (55) The cash flow generated by the Community industry in relation to sales of urea followed very closely the profitability trend. 3.9.
No difficulties have been reported. 3.10.
Employment, productivity and wages (57) Employment decreased from 1638 employees in 1996 to 1469 employees in the IP, a decrease of about 10 %.
With respect to wages, they dropped in 1997, but then followed the trend in productivity. 3.11.
Investments (58) The Community industry carried out considerable investments between 1996 and the IP.
Imports from other third countries (59) The import volume of urea from third countries other than Russia increased between 1996 and the IP by around 665 Ktonnes, from 1187 Ktonnes to 1852 Ktonnes, on the basis of Eurostat. (60) It seems that this increase should be seen in the light of the ban of urea imports in the People's Republic of China in April 1997, which led some countries to redirect their exports to other countries.
These other third countries increased their market share in the Community by 6 percentage points between 1996 and the IP.
The corresponding average cif import prices, based on Eurostat, decreased significantly between 1996 and the IP. 5.
Conclusion (61) While consumption on the Community market increased, in 1996, i.e.
The average price of these imports, as declared at customs, decreased and, in the IP, were below the minimum import price of 115 ECU/tonne.
Russian imports were not able to gain market shares, which was also due to the increasing presence of other third countries on the Community market, the prices of which were lower than the Russian ones as from 1997. (62) The expected improvement of the situation of the Community industry did not materialise, in principle due to the increased presence of other third country suppliers on the market.
It is to be noted that an anti-dumping investigation has been initiated in October 2000 concerning imports of urea originating in a number of other third countries (Belarus, Bulgaria, Croatia, Egypt, Estonia, Lithuania, Libya, Poland, Romania and Ukraine).
LIKELIHOOD OF A RECURRENCE OF INJURY (63) With regard to the likely effect on the Community industry of the expiry of the measures in force the following factors were considered, in line with the elements summarised in recitals 37 and 38. (64) There are clear indications that imports originating in Russia will continue at dumped prices.
In addition, domestic consumption in Russia is likely to stay at relatively low levels in the near future. (65) Having regard to the Russian exporters' export price behaviour on third country markets, namely Brazil, Turkey and Mexico, it is likely that the Russian exporting producers will adopt an aggressive price behaviour in the Community in order to regain their lost market shares.
COMMUNITY INTEREST 1.
Introduction (68) Pursuant to Article 21 of the basic Regulation, it was examined whether a prolongation of the existing anti-dumping measures would be against the interest of the Community as a whole.
Furthermore, it should be noted that the present investigation is a review, thus analysing a situation in which anti-dumping measures have already been in place.
Importers (74) Of the 44 importers who received questionnaires, only one replied.
However, given the negligible importance of urea for its business, it was concluded that that importer would not be seriously affected by a continuation of the measures. (75) In view of the low level of cooperation, the fact that importers generally deal with a wide range of fertilisers, of which urea is only one, and the fact that urea was available from numerous other sources not presently subject to anti-dumping measures, it was concluded that any negative impact of the continuation of measures on importers would not be a compelling reason against the continuation of measures. 4.
The individual user has encountered no problems in sourcing urea from other third countries whilst the measures have been in force. (77) It is to be noted that, as also established in previous investigations, fertilisers represent only a small part of total production costs of farmers.
A definitive anti-dumping duty is hereby imposed on imports of urea falling within CN codes 3102 10 10 and 3102 10 90 originating in Russia. 2.
The amount of the definitive anti-dumping duty shall be the difference between the minimum import price of EUR 115 per tonne and the net, free-at-Community-frontier price, before duty, in all cases where the latter is less than the minimum import price. 3.
In cases where goods have been damaged before entry into free circulation and, therefore, the price actually paid or payable is apportioned for the determination of the customs value pursuant to Article 145 of Commission Regulation (EEC) No 2454/93(11), the minimum import price set out above shall be reduced by a percentage which corresponds to the apportioning of the price actually paid or payable.
Done at Brussels, 7 May 2001.
Ringholm (1) OJ L 56, 6.3.1996, p. 1.
