The person responsible for placing on the market a medicinal product referred to in Part B of the Annex may request that authorization to place the medicinal product on the market be granted by the Community in accordance with the provisions of this Regulation. 3.
Before entry into force of this Regulation and after consultation of the Committee for Proprietary Medicinal Products, Parts A and B of the Annex as regards medicinal products for human use shall be re-examined in the light of scientific and technical progress with a view to making any amendments necessary which will be adopted under the procedure laid down in Article 72. 4.
Before entry into force of this Regulation and after consultation of the Committee for Veterinary Medicinal Products, Parts A and B of the Annex as regards veterinary medicinal products shall be re-examined in the light of scientific and technical progress with a view to making any amendments necessary which will be adopted under the procedure laid down in Article 72. 5.
The procedures referred to in paragraphs 3 and 4 shall continue to apply after entry into force of this Regulation.
In order to obtain the authorization referred to in Article 3, the person responsible for placing a medicinal product on the market shall submit an application to the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products, hereinafter referred to as 'the Agency', set up under Title IV. 2.
The Community shall issue and supervise marketing authorizations for medicinal products for human use in accordance with Title II. 3.
An application for authorization for a medicinal product for human use must be accompanied by the particulars and documents referred to in Articles 4 and 4a of Directive 65/65/EEC, in the Annex to Directive 75/318/EEC and in Article 2 of Directive 75/319/EEC. 2.
In the case of a medicinal product containing or consisting of genetically modified organisms within the meaning of Article 2 (1) and (2) of Directive 90/220/EEC, the application must also be accompanied by: - a copy of any written consent or consents of the competent authorities to the deliberate release into the environment of the genetically modified organisms for research and development purposes where provided for by Part B of Directive 90/220/EEC, - the complete technical dossier supplying the information requested in Annexes II and III to Directive 90/220/EEC and the environmental risk assessment resulting from this information; the results of any investigations performed for the purposes of research or development.
Articles 11 to 18 of Directive 90/220/EEC shall not apply to medicinal products for human use containing or consisting of genetically modified organisms. 3.
The application must also be accompanied by the fee payable to the Agency for the examination of the application. 4.
During the process of evaluating applications for marketing authorizations for products containing or consisting of genetically modified organisms, necessary consultations will be held by the rapporteur with the bodies set up the Community or the Member States in accordance with Directive 90/220/EEC. 5.
Article 7 In order to prepare its opinion, the Committee: (a) shall verify that the particulars and documents submitted in accordance with Article 6 comply with the requirements of Directives 65/65/EEC, 75/318/EEC and 75/319/EEC, and examine whether the conditions specified in this Regulation for issuing a marketing authorization for the medicinal product are satisfied; (b) may ask for a State laboratory or a laboratory designated for this purpose to test the medicinal product, its starting materials and, if need be, its intermediate products or other constituent materials in order to ensure that the control methods employed by the manufacturer and described in the application documents are satisfactory; (c) may, where appropriate, request the applicant to supplement the particulars accompanying the application within a specific time limit.
Where the Committee avails itself of this opinion, the time limit laid down in Article 6 shall be suspended until such time as the supplementary information requested has been provided.
Where the opinion of the Committee is that: - the application does not satisfy the criteria for authorization set out in this Regulation, or - the summary of the product characteristics proposed by the applicant in accordance with Article 6 should be amended, or - the labelling or package leaflet of the product is not in compliance with Council Directive 92/27/EEC of 31 March 1992 on the labelling of medicinal products for human use and on package leaflets (11), or - the authorization should be granted subject to the conditions provided for in Article 13 (2), the Agency shall forthwith inform the applicant.
Within 30 days of its adoption, the Agency shall forward the final opinion of the Committee to the Commission, the Member States and the applicant together with a report describing the assessment of the medicinal product by the Committee and stating the reasons for its conclusions. 3.
A final decision on the application shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 73. 3.
The rules of procedure of the Committee referred to in Article 73 shall be adjusted to take account of the tasks incumbent upon it in accordance with this Regulation.
The Agency shall, upon request, inform any person concerned of the final decision.
Article 11 Without prejudice to other provisions of Community law, the authorization provided for in Article 3 shall be refused if, after verification of the information and particulars submitted in accordance with Article 6, it appears that the quality, the safety or the efficacy of the medicinal product have not been adequately or sufficiently demonstrated by the applicant.
Authorization shall likewise be refused if the particulars and documents provided by the applicant in accordance with Article 6 are incorrect or if the labelling and package leaflets proposed by the applicant are not in accordance with Directive 92/27/EEC.
Without prejudice to Article 6 of Directive 65/65/EEC, a marketing authorization which has been granted in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Regulation shall be valid throughout the Community.
It shall confer the same rights and obligations in each of the Member States as a marketing authorization granted by that Member State in accordance with Article 3 of Directive 65/65/EEC.
Notification of marketing authorization shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Communities, quoting in particular the date of authorization and the number in the Community Register. 4.
Upon request from any interested person, the Agency shall make available the assessment report of the medicinal product by the Committee for Proprietary Medicinal Products and the reasons for its opinion in favour of granting authorization, after deletion of any information of a commercially confidential nature.
Medicinal products which have been authorized by the Community in accordance with the provisions of this Regulation shall benefit from the 10-year period of protection referred to in point 8 of the second paragraph of Article 4 of Directive 65/65/EEC.
Article 14 The granting of authorization shall not diminish the general civil and criminal liability in the Member States of the manufacturer or, where applicable, of the person responsible for placing the medicinal product on the market.
CHAPTER 2 Supervision and sanctions Article 15 1.
The person responsible for placing the medicinal product on the market shall forthwith inform the Agency, the Commission and the Member States of any new information which might entail the amendment of the particulars and documents referred to in Articles 6 or 9 or in the approved summary of the product characteristics.
If the person responsible for placing the medicinal product on the market proposes to make any alteration to the information and particulars referred to in Articles 6 and 9, he shall submit an application to the Agency. 4.
These arrangements shall be adopted by the Commission in the form of an implementing Regulation in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 72.
Article 16 In the case of medicinal products manufactured within the Community, the supervisory authorities shall be the competent authorities of the Member State or Member States which have granted the manufacturing authorization provided for in Article 16 of Directive 75/319/EEC in respect of the manufacture of the medicinal product concerned.
In the case of medicinal products imported from third countries, the supervisory authorities shall be the competent authorities of the Member States in which the controls referred to in Article 22 (1) (b) of Directive 75/319/EEC are carried out unless appropriate arrangements have been made between the Community and the exporting country to ensure that those controls are carried out in the exporting country and that the manufacturer applies standards of good manufacturing practice at least equivalent to those laid down by the Community.
A Member State may request assistance from another Member State or the Agency.
The supervisory authorities shall have responsibility for verifying on behalf of the Community that the person responsible for placing the medicinal product on the market or the manufacturer or importer from third countries satisfies the requirements laid down in Chapter IV of Directive 75/319/EEC and for exercising supervision over such persons in accordance with Chapter V of Directive 75/319/EEC. 2.
The same shall apply where a Member State or the Commission considers that one of the measures envisaged in Chapter V or Va of Directive 75/319/EEC should be applied in respect of the medicinal product concerned or where the Committee for Proprietary Medicinal Products has delivered an opinion to that effect in accordance with Article 20. 2.
The Commission shall prepare a draft of the Decision to be taken which shall be adopted in accordance with Article 10.
However, where a Member State has invoked the provisions of paragraph 4, the time limit provided for in Article 73 shall be reduced to 15 calendar days. 4.
Where urgent action is essential to protect human or animal health or the environment, a Member State may suspend the use on its territory of a medicinal product which has been authorized in accordance with this Regulation.
The Commission shall immediately consider the reasons given by the Member State in accordance with paragraph 2 and shall initiate the procedure provided for in paragraph 3. 5.
A Member State which has adopted the suspensive measures referred to in paragraph 4 may maintain them in force until such time as a definitive decision has been reached in accordance with the procedure laid down in paragraph 3. 6.
The Agency shall, upon request, inform any person concerned of the final decision.
Article 20 The Agency, acting in close cooperation with the national pharmacovigilance systems established in accordance with Article 29a of Directive 75/319/EEC, shall receive all relevant information about suspected adverse reactions to medicinal products which have been authorized by the Community in accordance with this Regulation.
The person responsible for placing the medicinal product on the market and the competent authorities of the Member States shall ensure that all relevant information about suspected adverse reactions to medicinal products authorized in accordance with this Regulation are brought to the attention of the Agency in accordance with the provisions of this Regulation.
Article 21 The person responsible for the placing on the market of a medicinal product authorized by the Community in accordance with the provisions of this Regulation shall have permanently and continuously at his disposal an appropriately qualified person responsible for pharmacovigilance.
That qualified person shall be responsible for the following: (a) the establishment and maintenance of a system which ensures that information about all suspected adverse reactions which are reported to the personnel of the company and to medical representatives, is collected, evaluated and collated so that it may be accessed at a single point within the Community; (b) the preparation of the reports referred to in Article 22 for the competent authorities of the Member States and the Agency in accordance with the requirements of this Regulation; (c) ensuring that any request from the competent authorities for the provision of additional information necessary for the evaluation of the benefits and risks of a medicinal product is answered fully and promptly, including the provision of information about the volume of sales or prescriptions for the medicinal product concerned.
The person responsible for placing the medicinal product on the market shall ensure that all suspected serious adverse reactions occurring within the Community to a medicinal product authorized in accordance with the provisions of this Regulation which are brought to his attention by a health care professional, are recorded and reported immediately to the Member States in whose territory the incident occurred, and in no case later than 15 days following the receipt of the information.
The person responsible for placing the medicinal product on the market shall ensure that all suspected serious unexpected adverse reactions occurring in the territory of a third country, are reported immediately to Member States and the Agency and in no case later than 15 days following the receipt of the information.
The arrangements for the reporting of suspected unexpected adverse reactions which are not serious, whether arising in the Community or in a third country, shall be adopted in accordance with Article 26. 2.
Article 23 Each Member State shall ensure that all suspected serious adverse reactions occurring within their territory to a medicinal product authorized in accordance with the provisions of this Regulation which are brought to their attention are recorded and reported immediately to the Agency and the person responsible for placing the medicinal product on the market, and in no case later than 15 days following the receipt of the information.
Article 24 The Commission in consultation with the Agency, Member States, and interested parties, shall draw up guidance on the collection, verification and presentation of adverse reaction reports.
The Agency, in consultation with the Member States and the Commission, shall set up a data-processing network for the rapid transmission of data between the competent Community authorities in the event of an alert relating to faulty manufacture, serious adverse reactions and other pharmacovigilance data regarding medicinal products marketed in the Community.
Article 26 Any amendment which may be necessary to update the provisions of this chapter to take account of scientific and technical progress shall be adopted in accordance with the provisions of Article 72.
An application for authorization for a veterinary medicinal product must be accompanied by the particulars and documents referred to in Articles 5, 5a and 7 of Directive 81/851/EEC. 2.
In the case of a veterinary medicinal product containing or consisting of genetically modified organisms within the meaning of Article 2 (1) and (2) of Directive 90/220/EEC, the application must also be accompanied by: - a copy of any written consent or consents of the competent authorities to the deliberate release into the environment of the genetically modified organisms for research and development purposes where provided for in Part B of Directive 90/220/EEC, - the complete technical dossier supplying the information requested in Annexes II and III to Directive 90/220/EEC and the environmental risk assessment resulting from this information; the results of any investigations performed for the purposes of research or development.
Articles 11 to 18 of Directive 90/220/EEC shall not apply to veterinary medicinal products containing or consisting of genetically modified organisms. 3.
The application shall also be accompanied by the fee payable to the Agency for the examination of the application. 4.
During the process of evaluating applications for marketing authorizations for veterinary medicinal products containing or consisting of genetically modified organisms, necessary consultations shall be held by the rapporteur with the bodies set up by the Community or the Member States in accordance with Directive 90/220/EEC. 5.
Article 29 In order to prepare its opinion, the Committee: (a) shall verify that the particulars and documents submitted in accordance with Article 28 comply with the requirements of Directives 81/851/EEC and 81/852/EEC and examine whether the conditions specified in this Regulation for issuing a marketing authorization are satisfied; (b) may ask for a State laboratory or a laboratory designated for this purpose to test the veterinary medicinal product, its starting materials and, if need be, its intermediate products or other constituent materials in order to ensure that the control methods employed by the manufacturer and described in the application documents are satisfactory; (c) may request a State laboratory or laboratory designated for this purpose to verify, using samples provided by the applicant, that the analytical detection method proposed by the applicant in accordance with point 8 of the second paragraph of Article 5 of Directive 81/851/EEC is suitable for use in routine checks to reveal the presence of residue levels above the maximum residue level accepted by the Community in accordance with the provisions of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2377/90 of 26 June 1990 laying down a Community procedure for the establishment of maximum residue limits of veterinary medicinal products in foodstuffs of animal origin (13); (d) may, where appropriate, request the applicant to supplement the particulars accompanying the application within a specific time limit.
Where the Committee avails itself of this option, the time limit laid down in Article 28 shall be suspended until such time as the supplementary information requested has been provided.
Upon receipt of a written request from the Committee, a Member State shall forward the information establishing that the manufacturer of a veterinary medicinal product or the importer from a third country is able to manufacture the veterinary medicinal product concerned and/or carry out the necessary control tests in accordance with the particulars and documents supplied pursuant to Article 28. 2.
Where the opinion of the Committee is that: - the application does not satisfy the criteria for authorization set out in this Regulation, or - the summary of the product characteristics proposed by the applicant in accordance with Article 28 should be amended, or - the labelling or package insert of the product is not in compliance with Directive 81/851/EEC, or - the authorization should be granted subject to the conditions provided for in Article 35 (2), the Agency shall forthwith inform the applicant.
Within 30 days of its adoption, the Agency shall forward the final opinion of the Committee to the Commission, the Member States and the applicant together with a report describing the assessment of the veterinary medicinal product by the Committee and stating the reasons for its conclusions. 3.
In the event of an opinion in favour of granting the relevant authorization to market the veterinary medicinal product, the following documents shall be annexed to the opinion: (a) the draft summary of the product characteristics, as referred to in Article 5a of Directive 81/851/EEC; where necessary this will reflect differences in the veterinary conditions pertaining in the Member States; (b) in the case of a veterinary medicinal product intended for administration to food-producing animals, a statement of the maximum residue level which may be accepted by the Community in accordance with Regulation (EEC) No 2377/90; (c) details of any conditions or restrictions which should be imposed on the supply or use of the veterinary medicinal product concerned, including the conditions under which the veterinary medicinal product may be made available to users, in accordance with the criteria laid down in Directive 81/851/EEC; (d) the draft text of the labelling and package insert proposed by the applicant, presented in accordance with Directive 81/851/EEC; (e) the assessment report.
A final decision on the application shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 73. 3.
The rules of procedure of the Committee referred to in Article 73 shall be adjusted to take account of the tasks incumbent upon it in accordance with this Regulation.
The provisions necessary for the implementation of this paragraph shall be adopted by the Commission in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 72. 4.
The Agency shall, upon request, inform any person concerned of the final decision.
Authorization shall likewise be refused if the particulars and documents provided by the applicant in accordance with Article 28 are incorrect or if the labelling and package inserts proposed by the applicant are not in accordance with Chapter VII of Directive 81/851/EEC.
It shall confer the same rights and obligations in each of the Member States as a marketing authorization granted by that Member State in accordance with Article 4 of Directive 81/851/EEC.
The refusal of a Community marketing authorization shall constitute a prohibition on the placing on the market of the veterinary medicinal product concerned throughout the Community. 3.
Notification of marketing authorization shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Communities, quoting in particular the date of authorization and the number in the Community Register. 4.
Upon request from any interested person, the Agency shall make available the assessment report of the veterinary medicinal product by the Committee for Veterinary Medicinal Products and the reasons for its opinion in favour of granting authorization, after deletion of any information of a commercially confidential nature.
Veterinary medicinal products which have been authorized by the Community in accordance with the provisions of this Regulation shall benefit from the 10-year period of protection referred to in point 10 of the second paragraph of Article 5 of Directive 81/851/EEC.
Article 36 The granting of authorization shall not diminish the general civil and criminal liability in the Member States of the manufacturer or, where applicable, of the person responsible for placing the veterinary medicinal product on the market.
CHAPTER 2 Supervision and sanctions Article 37 1.
After an authorization has been issued in accordance with this Regulation, the person responsible for placing the veterinary medicinal product on the market shall, in respect of the methods of production and control provided for in points 4 and 9 of the second paragraph of Article 5 of Directive 81/851/EEC, take account of technical and scientific progress and make changes that may be required to enable the veterinary medicinal product to be manufactured and checked by means of generally accepted scientific methods.
Upon a request from the Commission, the person responsible for placing the veterinary medicinal product on the market shall also review the analytical detection methods provided for in point 8 of the second paragraph of Article 5 of Directive 81/851/EEC and propose any changes which may be necessary to take account of technical and scientific progress. 2.
The person responsible for placing the veterinary medicinal product on the market shall forthwith inform the Agency, the Commission and the Member States of any new information which might entail the amendment of the particulars and documents referred to in Articles 28 and 31 or in the approved summary of the product characteristics.
In particular the aforementioned person shall forthwith inform the Agency, the Commission and the Member States of any prohibition or restriction imposed by the competent authorities of any country in which the veterinary medicinal product is marketed and of any other new information which might influence the evaluation of the benefits and risks of the veterinary medicinal product concerned. 3.
If the person responsible for placing the veterinary medicinal product on the market proposes to make any alteration to the information and particulars referred to in Articles 28 and 31, he shall submit an application to the Agency. 4.
These arrangements shall be adopted by the Commission in the form of an implementing Regulation in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 72.
Article 38 In the case of veterinary medicinal products manufactured within the Community, the supervisory authorities shall be the competent authorities of the Member State or Member States which have granted the manufacturing authorization provided for in Article 24 of Directive 85/851/EEC in respect of the manufacture of the veterinary medicinal product concerned.
In the case of veterinary medicinal products imported from third countries, the supervisory authorities shall be the competent authorities of the Member States in which the controls referred to in Article 30 (1) (b) of Directive 81/851/EEC are carried out unless appropriate arrangements have been made between the Community and the exporting country to ensure that those controls are carried out in the exporting country and that the manufacturer applies standards of good manufacturing practice at least equivalent to those laid down by the Community.
A Member State may request assistance from another Member State or the Agency.
The supervisory authorities shall have responsibility for verifying on behalf of the Community that the person responsible for placing the veterinary medicinal product on the market, or manufacturer or importer from third countries satisfies the requirements laid down in Chapter V of Directive 81/851/EEC and for exercising supervision over such persons in accordance with Chapter VI of Directive 81/851/EEC. 2.
Subject to any arrangements which may have been concluded between the Community and third countries in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 38, the Commission may, upon receipt of a reasoned request from a Member State, the Committee for Veterinary Medicinal Products, or on its own initiative, require a manufacturer established in a third country to submit to an inspection.
The same shall apply where a Member State or the Commission considers that one of the measures envisaged in Chapter VI of Directive 81/851/EEC should be applied in respect of the veterinary medicinal product concerned or where the Committee for Veterinary Medicinal Products has delivered an opinion to that effect in accordance with Article 42. 2.
The Commission shall prepare a draft of the Decision to be taken which shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 32.
However, where a Member State has invoked the provisions of paragraph 4, the time limit provided for in Article 73 shall be reduced to 15 calendar days. 4.
Where urgent action is essential to protect human or animal health or the environment, a Member State may suspend the use on its territory of a veterinary medicinal product which has been authorized in accordance with this Regulation.
The Commission shall immediately consider the reasons given by the Member State in accordance with paragraph 2 and shall initiate the procedure provided for in paragraph 3. 5.
A Member State which has adopted the suspensive measures referred to in paragraph 4 may maintain them in force until such time as a definitive decision has been reached in accordance with the procedure laid down in paragraph 3. 6.
The Agency shall, upon request, inform any person concerned of the final decision.
CHAPTER 3 Pharmacovigilance Article 41 For the purpose of this Chapter, the definitions given in Article 42 of Directive 81/851/EEC shall apply.
Article 42 The Agency, acting in close cooperation with the national pharmacovigilance systems established in accordance with Article 42a of Directive 81/851/EEC, shall receive all relevant information about suspected adverse reactions to veterinary medicinal products which have been authorized by the Community in accordance with this Regulation.
The person responsible for placing the veterinary medicinal product on the market and the competent authorities of the Member States shall ensure that all relevant information about suspected adverse reactions to veterinary medicinal products authorized in accordance with this Regulation are brought to the attention of the Agency in accordance with the provisions of this Regulation.
Article 43 The person responsible for the placing on the market of a veterinary medicinal product authorized by the Community in accordance with the provisions of this Regulation shall have permanently and continuously at his disposal an appropriately qualified person responsible for pharmacovigilance.
The person responsible for placing a veterinary medicinal product on the market shall ensure that all suspected serious adverse reactions occurring within the Community to a veterinary medicinal product authorized in accordance with the provisions of this Regulation which are brought to his attention are recorded and reported immediately to the Member States in whose territory the incident occurred, and in no case later than 15 days following the receipt of the information.
The aforementioned person shall ensure that all suspected serious unexpected adverse reactions occurring in the territory of a third country, are reported immediately to the Member States and the Agency and in no case later than 15 days following the receipt of the information.
The arrangements for the reporting of suspected unexpected adverse reactions which are not serious, whether arising in the Community or in a third country, shall be adopted in accordance with Article 48. 2.
Article 45 Each Member State shall ensure that all suspected serious adverse reactions occurring within their territory to a veterinary medicinal product authorized in accordance with the provisions of this Regulation which are brought to their attention are recorded and reported immediately to the Agency and the person responsible for placing the veterinary medicinal product on the market, and in no case later than 15 days following the receipt of the information.
Article 46 The Commission in consultation with the Agency, Member States, and interested parties, shall draw up guidance on the collection, verification and presentation of adverse reaction reports.
The Agency, in consultation with the Member States and the Commission, shall set up a data-processing network for the rapid transmission of data between the competent Community authorities in the event of an alert relating to faulty manufacture, serious adverse reactions and other pharmacovigilance data regarding veterinary medicinal products marketed in the Community.
Article 47 The Agency shall cooperate with international organizations concerned with veterinary pharmacovigilance.
Article 48 Any amendment which may be necessary to update the provisions of this Chapter to take account of scientific and technical progress shall be adopted in accordance with the provisions of Article 72.
The Agency shall comprise: (a) the Committee for Proprietary Medicinal Products, which shall be responsible for preparing the opinion of the Agency on any question relating to the evaluation of medicinal products for human use; (b) the Committee for Veterinary Medicinal Products, which shall be responsible for preparing the opinion of the Agency on any question relating to the evaluation of veterinary medicinal products; (c) a Secretariat, which shall provide technical and administrative support for the two Committees and ensure appropriate coordination between them; (d) an Executive Director, who shall exercise the responsibilities set out in Article 55; (e) a Management Board, which shall exercise the responsibilities set out in Articles 56 and 57. 2.
The Committee for Proprietary Medicinal Products and the Committee for Veterinary Medicinal Products may each establish working parties and expert groups. 3.
The Committee for Proprietary Medicinal Products and the Committee for Veterinary Medicinal Products shall each consist of two members nominated by each Member State for a term of three years which shall be renewable.
Where, in accordance with the provisions of this Regulation, the Committee for Proprietary Medicinal Products or the Committee for Veterinary Medicinal Products is required to evaluate a medicinal product, the Committee shall appoint one of its members to act as rapporteur for the coordination of the evaluation, taking into consideration any proposal from the applicant for the choice of a rapporteur.
Member States shall transmit to the Agency a list of experts with proven experience in the assessment of medicinal products who would be available to serve on working parties or expert groups of the Committee for Proprietary Medicinal Products or the Committee for Veterinary Medicinal Products, together with an indication of their qualifications and specific areas of expertise.
Each year, the Executive Director shall submit to the Management Board for approval, while making a distinction between the Agency's activities concerning medicinal products for human use and those concerning veterinary medicinal products: - a draft report covering the activities of the Agency in the previous year, including information about the number of applications evaluated within the Agency, the time taken for the completion of the evaluation and the medicinal products authorized, rejected or withdrawn, - a draft programme of work for the coming year, - the draft annual accounts for the previous year, - the draft budget for the coming year. 4.
The Management Board shall consist of two representatives from each Member State, two representatives of the Commission and two representatives appointed by the European Parliament.
Each representative may arrange to be replaced by an alternate. 2.
CHAPTER 2 Financial provisions Article 57 1.
By 15 February each year at the latest, the Director shall draw up a preliminary draft budget covering the operational expenditure and the programme of work anticipated for the following financial year, and shall forward this preliminary draft to the Management Board together with an establishment plan. 4.
The Management Board shall adopt the draft budget and forward it to the Commission which on that basis shall establish the relevant estimates in the preliminary draft general budget of the European Communities, which it shall put before the Council pursuant to Article 203 of the Treaty. 6.
The Director shall implement the Agency's budget. 8.
By 31 March each year at the latest, the Director shall forward to the Commission, the Management Board and the Court of Auditors the accounts for all the Agency's revenue and expenditure in respect of the preceding financial year.
The Management Board shall give a discharge to the Director in respect of the implementation of the budget. 11.
CHAPTER 3 General provisions governing the Agency Article 59 The Agency shall have legal personality.
Article 61 The Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Communities shall apply to the Agency.
Article 62 The staff of the Agency shall be subject to the rules and regulations applicable to officials and other staff of the European Communities.
Article 63 Members of the Management Board, members of Committees, and officials and other servants of the Agency shall be required, even after their duties have ceased, not to disclose information of the kind covered by the obligation of professional secrecy.
Article 64 The Commission may, in agreement with the Management Board and the relevant Committee, invite representatives of international organizations with interests in the harmonization of regulations applicable to medicinal products to participate as observers in the work of the Agency.
Article 65 The Management Board shall, in agreement with the Commission, develop appropriate contacts between the Agency and the representatives of the industry, consumers and patients and the health professions.
Article 66 The Agency shall take up its responsibilities on 1 January 1995.
TITLE V GENERAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS Article 67 All decisions to grant, refuse, vary, suspend, withdraw or revoke a marketing authorization which are taken in accordance with this Regulation shall state in detail the reasons on which they are based.
Article 70 Additives covered by Council Directive 70/524/EEC of 23 November 1970 concerning additives in feedingstuffs (15), where they are intended to be administered to animals in accordance with that Directive, shall not be considered as veterinary medicinal products for the purposes of this Regulation.
The Council shall decide on the Commission proposal no later than one year after their submission.
Article 71 Within six years of the entry into force of this Regulation, the Commission shall publish a general report on the experience acquired as a result of the operation of the procedures laid down in this Regulation, in Chapter III of Directive 75/319/EEC and in Chapter IV of Directive 81/851/EEC.
Article 72 Where the procedure laid down in this Article is to be followed the Commission shall be assisted by: - the Standing Committee on Medicinal Products for Human Use, in the case of matters relating to medicinal products for human use, - the Standing Committee on Veterinary Medicinal Products, in the case of matters relating to veterinary medicinal products.
The representative of the Commission shall submit to the Committee a draft of the measures to be taken.
The opinion shall be delivered by the majority laid down in Article 148 (2) of the Treaty in the case of decisions which the Council is required to adopt on a proposal from the Commission.
The Commission shall adopt the measures envisaged if they are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee.
If the measures envisaged are not in accordance with the opinion of the Committee, or if no opinion is delivered, the Commission shall, without delay, submit to the Council a proposal relating to the measures to be taken.
Article 73 Where the procedure laid down in this Article is to be followed the Commission shall be assisted by: - the Standing Committee on Medicinal Products for Human Use, in the case of matters relating to medicinal products for human use, - the Standing Committee on Veterinary Medicinal Products, in the case of matters relating to veterinary medicinal products.
The representative of the Commission shall submit to the Committee a draft of the measures to be taken.
The opinion shall be delivered by the majority laid down in Article 148 (2) of the Treaty in the case of decisions which the Council is required to adopt on a proposal from the Commission.
The Commission shall adopt the measures envisaged if they are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee.
If the measures envisaged are not in accordance with the opinion of the Committee, or if no opinion is delivered, the Commission shall, without delay, submit to the Council a proposal relating to the measures to be taken.
Article 74 This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following the decision taken by the competent authorities on the headquarters of the Agency.
Subject to the first subparagraph Titles I, II, III and V shall enter into force on 1 January 1995.
Done at Brussels, 22 July 1993.
