Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall apply mutatis mutandis to any surcharge, due to the Office. 4.
The President of the Office may allow the following alternative forms of payment in accordance with rules on working methods which shall be established pursuant to Article 36 (1) (d) of the Basic Regulation: (a) delivery or remittance of certified cheques which are made payable in ecus to the Office; (b) transfer in ecus to a giro account held by the Office; or (c) payment into a charge account held in ecus with the Office.
Article 4 Date to be regarded as the date on which payment is received 1.
It shall be considered to be 'necessary` within the meaning of paragraph 3 if the person making the payment duly gave an order to a banking establishment or a post office to transfer the amount of the payment in ecus to a bank account held by the Office. 5.
Article 5 Name of the person making the payment and the purpose of payment 1.
Article 6 Underpayment A time-limit for payment of fees or surcharges shall, in principle, be deemed to have been observed only if the full amount of the fee or surcharge has been paid in due time.
Article 7 Application fee 1.
The applicant for a Community plant variety right (the applicant) shall pay an application fee of ECU 1 000 for the processing of the application under Article 113 (2) (a) of the Basic Regulation. 2.
If the payment of the application fee is considered not to have been received within the time limit specified pursuant to paragraph 3, the date of receipt of payment shall be treated as the date of application for the purposes of Article 51 of the Basic Regulation. 5.
In the case of an examination report on the results of a technical examination which has already been carried out, in accordance with Article 27 of the Implementing Rules, prior to the date of application under Article 51 of the Basic Regulation, an administrative fee shall be due within such time limit as the Office shall specify.
Article 9 Annual fee 1.
Article 10 Fees for processing specific requests 1.
The fees referred to in paragraph 1 shall be due and payable on the date of receipt of the request to which they relate.
Where the payment is not received in good time, Article 83 (2) of the Basic Regulation shall apply.
Article 11 Appeal fee 1.
The appellant shall pay an appeal fee of ECU 1 500 for the processing of an appeal, as provided for in Article 113 (2) (c) of the Basic Regulation. 2.
A third of the appeal fee shall be due on the date of receipt of the appeal at the Office; Article 83 (2) of the Basic Regulation shall apply to that third.
Paragraph 1 shall not apply to the Commission or a Member State, being the appellant against a decision taken under Article 29 (2) of the Basic Regulation.
Article 12 Fees laid down by the President of the Office 1.
The President of the Office shall fix the fees for the following matters: (a) the administrative fee referred to in Article 8 (5); (b) fees for issuing copies, certified or not, as in particular referred to in Article 84 (3) of the Proceedings Regulation; and (c) fees in respect of the Official Gazette of the Office (Article 89 of the Basic Regulation, Article 87 of the Proceedings Regulation) and any other publication issued by the Office. 2.
The President of the Office may decide to make the services mentioned under paragraph 1 (b) and (c) dependent on an advance payment.
Article 13 Surcharges 1.
The Office may levy a surcharge to the application fee if it establishes that: (a) a proposed denomination cannot be approved, in accordance with Article 63 of the Basic Regulation, by reason of its being identical to a denomination of another variety or by reason of its differing from a denomination of the same variety; or (b) an applicant for a Community plant variety right makes a new proposal for a variety denomination unless he was required by the Office to do so or unless he pursued an application for a Community plant variety right in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Proceedings Regulation.
The Office may levy a surcharge to the annual fee if it establishes that: (a) the holder has failed to pay the annual fee in accordance with Article 9 (2) and (3); or (b) the variety denomination must be amended in the event of a prior conflicting right of a third party, as laid down in Article 66 (1) of the Basic Regulation. 3.
Article 14 Derogations 1.
Such administrative fee shall be due on 30 November 1995 at the latest. 3.
Such fee shall not exceed the fee charged in the Member State concerned for the transmission of an examination report from a testing authority in another country; its payment shall be without prejudice to the payments to be made pursuant to paragraphs 1 and 2. 4.
Notwithstanding Article 8, a report fee of ECU 300 shall be due in the case of an examination report referred to in Article 94 of the Proceedings Regulation within such time limit as the Office shall specify.
Article 15 Entry into force This Regulation shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Done at Brussels, 31 May 1995.
For the Commission Franz FISCHLER Member of the Commission ANNEX I The examination fee due to be paid pursuant to Article 8 shall be as follows: %gt%TABLE%gt% ANNEX II The annual fee due to be paid pursuant to Article 9 for each year of duration shall be, on the basis of the groups established in Annex I, as follows: %gt%TABLE%gt%
