Article 2 Cold-water meters which may bear the EEC marks and signs are described in the Annex to this Directive.
Article 5 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Nominal flowrate (Qn) The nominal flowrate, Qn, is equal to half the maximum flowrate, Qmax.
At the nominal flowrate, Qn, the meter should be able to function in normal use, i.e., in continuous and intermittent operating conditions, without exceeding the maximum permissible errors. 1.5.
Maximum permissible errors The maximum error permitted in the lower region, from Qmin inclusive to Qt non-inclusive, is ± 5 %.
The maximum error permitted in the upper region, from Qt inclusive to Qmax inclusive, is ± 2 %. 2.2.
The minimum value for this pressure is 10 bars. 3.4.
The following should be shown near each part of the scale : × 1000 - × 100 - × 10 - × 1 - × 0.1 - × 0.01 - × 0.001.
The size of the verification scale division must be based on the formula 1 × 10n or 2 × 10n or 5 × 10n.
Identification inscriptions It is compulsory for all meters to carry, in a legible and indelible manner, either separately or grouped together on the meter casing, the indicator dial, or the indication plate, the following information: (a) the name or trade name of the manufacturer or his trademark; (b) the metrological class and nominal flowrate Qn in cubic metres per hour; (c) the year of manufacture, individual serial number; (d) one or two arrows showing direction of flow; (e) the EEC pattern approval symbol; (f) the maximum operating pressure in bars if this can exceed 10 bars; (g) the letter %quot%V%quot% or %quot%H%quot% if the meter can operate properly only in either the vertical (V) or horizontal (H) positions. 4.2.
The maximum permissible inaccuracy is 5 % in the case of measurement of pressure and 2.5 % in the case of measurement of loss of pressure.
During each test, the relative variation in the flowrates should not exceed 2.5 % between Qmin and Qt and 5 % between Qt and Qmax.
Conditions for EEC pattern approval A water meter pattern will be approved if it fulfils the following conditions: (a) it conforms with the administrative, technical and metrological provisions of this Directive and its Annex; (b) tests 1, 2 and 3 under point 5.2.4 show that it conforms with Parts II and III of this Annex as regards metrological and technological characteristics; (c) after each accelerated endurance test: 1.
the maximum error of the meter between Qmin and Qt is ± 6 % and between Qt and Qmax ± 2.5 %.
