The Governing Board shall adopt practical arrangements for implementing Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 within six months of entry into force of Council Regulation (EC) No 1648/2003 amending Regulation (EEC) 1360/90 of 18 June 2003 establishing a European Training Foundation(8). 3.
The Governing Board shall adopt the Foundation's annual report and forward it by 15 June at the latest to the European Parliament, the Council, the Commission, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Court of Auditors.
This estimate, which shall include a draft establishment plan, shall be forwarded by the Governing Board to the Commission by 31 March at the latest. 2.
On the basis of the estimate, the Commission shall enter in the preliminary draft general budget of the European Union the estimates it deems necessary for the establishment plan and the amount of the subsidy to be charged to the general budget, which it shall place before the budgetary authority in accordance with Article 272 of the Treaty.
The budgetary authority shall adopt the establishment plan for the Foundation. 5.
By 1 March at the latest following each financial year, the Foundation's accounting officer shall communicate the provisional accounts to the Commission's accounting officer together with a report on the budgetary and financial management for that financial year.
The Commission's accounting officer shall consolidate the provisional accounts of the institutions and decentralised bodies in accordance with Article 128 of the general Financial Regulation. 3.
By 31 March at the latest following each financial year, the Commission's accounting officer shall forward the Foundation's provisional accounts to the Court of Auditors, together with a report on the budgetary and financial management for that financial year.
The report on the budgetary and financial management for that financial year shall also be forwarded to the European Parliament and the Council. 4.
On receipt of the Court of Auditors' observations on the Foundation's provisional accounts, pursuant to Article 129 of the general Financial Regulation, the Director shall draw up the Foundation's final accounts under his own responsibility and forward them to the Governing Board for an opinion. 5.
The Governing Board shall deliver an opinion on the Foundation's final accounts. 6.
The Director shall, by 1 July at the latest following each financial year, forward these final accounts to the European Parliament, the Council, the Commission and the Court of Auditors, together with the Governing Board's opinion. 7.
The Foundation's Director shall send the Court of Auditors a reply to its observations by 30 September at the latest.
He shall also send this reply to the Governing Board. 9.
Done at Luxembourg, 18 June 2003.
