The total cost of each measure shall in principle not be less than EUR 5 million.
In duly justified cases, taking into account the specific circumstances concerned, the total cost of a measure may be less than EUR 5 million. 3.
A balance shall be struck between measures in the field of the environment and measures relating to transport infrastructure. 4.
Article 4 Indicative allocation An indicative allocation between beneficiary countries of the total Community assistance under ISPA shall be made by the Commission, acting in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 14, on the basis of the criteria of population, per capita GDP in purchasing power parities and surface area.
Article 5 Compatibility with Community policies 1.
Article 6 Forms and rate of assistance 1.
The rate of Community assistance granted under ISPA may be up to 75 % of public or equivalent expenditure, including expenditure by bodies whose activities are undertaken within an administrative or legal framework by virtue of which they are regarded as equivalent to public bodies.
Preliminary studies and technical support measure, may be financed exceptionally at 100 % of the total cost.
Article 7 Appraisal and approval of measures 1.
The Commission shall adopt decisions on the measures to be financed under ISPA in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 14. 2.
Applications shall contain: (a) the information set out in Annex I; (b) all relevant information proving that the measures comply with this Regulation and with the criteria set out in Annex II, and in particular that there are medium-term economic and social benefits commensurate with the resources deployed. 4.
On receipt of an application for assistance and before approving a measure, the Commission shall carry out a thorough appraisal in order to assess the measure's compliance with the criteria set out in Annex II. 5.
The combined assistance under ISPA and other Community aid for a measure shall not exceed 90 % of the total expenditure relating to that measure. 7.
The Commission shall adopt common rules for the eligibility of expenditure in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 14.
Article 8 Commitments and payments 1.
Commitments in respect of subsequent annual instalments shall be based on the initial or revised financing plan for the measure and in principle be granted at the start of each financial year and at the latest by 1 April of the year in question according to forecast expenditure for this year; (b) for measures with a duration of less than two years or for which the Community assistance does not exceed EUR 20 million a first commitment of up to 80 % of the assistance granted may take place when the financing memorandum is drawn up.
The Commission shall adopt detailed rules on payments in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 14. 4.
Article 9 Management and control 1.
Article 10 Use of the euro 1.
The amounts in the applications for assistance, together with the relevant financing plan, shall be expressed in euro. 2.
Declarations of expenditure in support of the corresponding payment applications shall be expressed in euro. 4.
Article 11 Monitoring and ex-post evaluation The beneficiary countries and the Commission shall ensure that the implementation of measures under this Regulation is monitored and evaluated in accordance with the provisions in Annex IV.
Article 12 Annual report The Commission shall present an annual report on Community assistance granted under ISPA to the European Parliament, the Council, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions.
The annual report shall contain the information set out in Annex V.
Article 13 Information and publicity 1.
The Commission shall adopt detailed rules on information and publicity acting in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 14.
Article 14 Committee 1.
Article 15 Reallocation of resources On accession to the European Union, a country shall lose its entitlement to support under this Regulation.
Article 17 Entry into force This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Done at Luxembourg, 21 June 1999.
Directive as amended by Directive 97/11/EC (OJ L 73, 14.3.1997, p. 5).
However, pursuant to Article 12 of Council Regulation (EC) No 1266/1999, the appropriations may be the subject of extended decentralised management, in particular as regards the ex-ante approval by the Commission of launching of tenders, the evaluation of bids and the award of contracts and financial management.
ANNEX IV Monitoring and ex-post evaluation (Article 11) A.
