Assurance gathered through the annual activity reports 5 2.1.
Major cross-cutting issues arising from the annual activity reports and recommendations received 9 3.1.
Performance management and internal control 9 3.1.1.
Risk management as a way of embedding internal control in the administrative culture 10 3.1.3.
Shared services 12 3.2.4.
Simplification 13 3.3.
Financial rules 14 3.3.2.
Accounting and financial reporting 16 3.4.
Crisis management and business continuity 18 3.5.
Recruitment 19 3.5.3.
Conclusions 19 Annex 1 22 Annex 2 27 Annex 3 32 Annex 4 36 1.
According to Article 60(7) of the Financial Regulation, the Commission shall send the annual synthesis to the budgetary authority no later than 15 June each year.
In this synthesis, the Commission also takes a position on the cross-cutting issues stemming from the examination of these reports and raised by the Internal Auditor, the European Court of Auditors, the Discharge Authority, or identified by the Audit Progress Committee and by the Director-General for Budget in his report “Overview on the state of internal control in Commission Directorates-General and Services” [SEC(2006) 567].
The Commission takes overall responsibility, pursuant to Article 274 of the EC Treaty, for implementing the EU budget.
More generally, this Synthesis also provides a summary of the progress made in 2005 towards fully developing the performance potential of the Commission’s management and control systems in areas such as: - Promoting the Commission’s accountability : the annual activity reports for 2005 were based on a stronger methodology and a more coherent approach to common concerns (Part 2.2 below); full accrual accounting was applied to the EU budget for the first time, although a number of transitional problems had to be resolved (Part 3.3.4). - Enhancing effective performance management : the culture of effectiveness of internal control continued to gather pace and will be further embedded by focusing more on proportionality and cost-effectiveness of controls (Part 3.1.1); 2005 was the first year of introduction of the new Commission-wide methodology on risk management (Part 3.1.2); action to improve the quality of objectives and indicators was launched (Part 3.1.3). - Reinforcing the Commission’s responsibility and monitoring capacity : improvements aimed at simplification were proposed or implemented (Part 3.2.4); an action plan on moving to an integrated internal control framework was presented (Part 3.3.2); the follow-up of action plans (Part 3.2.1) and the reliability and robustness of internal control strategies (Part 3.3.3) were improved.
The 2005 Synthesis covers the first year in which a budget entirely managed by the Barroso Commission will be subject to the discharge procedure. 2.
Increased efforts to align audit strategies, planning and risk management with Member States, reliance on the work of other controllers and systematic use of management reporting from Member State bodies are also foreseen in the action plan for an integrated control framework (see below) and recommended by the Internal Auditor.
Although the reservations on procurement programming and on administrative appropriations in delegations did not jeopardise the reasonable assurance provided by the Director General, the Commission will ensure that this service implements effective corrective measures in order to minimise the likelihood of similar situations arising in the future. | - Conclusion Overall, the Commission considers that the internal control systems in place, with the limitations described in the 2005 annual activity reports, provide reasonable assurance on the legality and regularity of operations, for which the Commission is responsible under Article 274 EC.
Progress was also made by the internal policies family. - All Directorates-General were also asked to disclose the materiality criteria used and to include their overall conclusion on the combined impact of the reservations on the declaration as a whole.
Conclusion Much progress has been achieved in 2005 in improving accountability and ensuring a more coherent approach by ‘families’ of Directorates-General dealing with similar activities.
In this respect, the Commission notes that recurring reservations are different in nature: Reservations whose scope reduces from year to year or for which the action plan is bearing fruit (reservations issued by the Directorate-General for Regional Policy on ERDF or Cohesion Fund in certain Member States or candidate countries; reservation on IACS in Greece by the Directorate-General for Agriculture and Rural Development; reservations on the coverage of ex-post controls and on the European Refugee Fund by the Directorate-General for Freedom, Security and Justice; reservation on accrual accounting for the European Development Fund by the Directorate-General for Budget).
It will ensure that the relevant Directors-General take the necessary action in 2006 to resolve these issues.
This is addressed below in Parts 3.3.4 and 3.4.1. 3.
Performance management and internal control 3.1.1.
Effectiveness of internal control in the Commission As the Internal Auditor and the overview report note, Commission Directorates-General and Services have made considerable progress in internal control : the annual activity reports show, for example, that most Directorates-General and Services have diversified and adapted financial circuits to the different needs and risks identified; some Directorates-General are increasingly monitoring that commitments and payments are evenly spread over the year, in an attempt to reduce the concentration of budget transactions at year end; risk management is further embedded in the management process and results of controls and lessons to be drawn are being monitored more and more closely.
Finally, internal control and risk management will have to be integrated in a common framework, in line with the current international practice and on the basis of experience with the 24 existing internal control standards and the common risk methodology put in place last year.
Risk management as a way of embedding internal control in the administrative culture The Commission adopted a Commission-wide risk management framework in 2005, as foreseen in the 2004 Synthesis Report, establishing a common approach to risk management.
Conclusion The Commission will further embed risk management in its regular management process and integrate risk assessment in its internal control systems.
Governance 3.2.1.
As stated in the overview on internal control, almost all Directorates-General report that appropriate action plans have been put in place in order to remedy the weaknesses identified by the Internal Auditor or the Internal Audit Capabilities and that implementation of these action plans is regularly monitored.
As the Internal Auditor notes, whereas acceptance of internal audit recommendations by Commission Directorates-General is very good, there is often considerable delay in implementation of action plans .
Conclusion The Commission will ensure that its Directorates-General draw up precise action plans, taking into account priorities assigned and resource constraints, and on this basis follow up audit recommendations in good time. 3.2.2.
In the area of legislative simplification , the Commission presented the results of a screening exercise of pending legislative proposals and, in September 2005, announced its intention to withdraw 68 of these.
The Commission also proposed several further amendments to the financial rules: first , an amendment to the Implementing Rules of the Financial Regulation, designed, among other things, to introduce simplification measures, due to enter into force in mid-2006; second , the scheduled triennial revision of the Financial Regulations and its linked Implementing Rules, due to be applicable as from 1 January 2007.
The risk of irregularity or illegality in the underlying transactions, inherent to the implementation of a basic act, will be addressed by an adequate level of control, in order to reach a tolerable level of risk , taking into account the multi-annual character of programmes as well as the nature of the payments concerned.
In the same context, it issued in January 2006 an Action plan towards an Integrated Internal Control Framework , including sixteen actions (in the areas of simplification and common control procedures; management declarations and audit assurance; sharing audit results and cost-benefit analysis; and addressing sector specific gaps).
It notes that its success will also greatly depend on the cooperation of other parties, such as the Council and the European Parliament, national departments responsible for the management and control of the use of EU funds and Supreme Audit Institutions in the Member States. 3.3.3.
Progress in this area is also expected from the guidelines issued in 2005 by the ex-post control network on a common terminology for ex-post controls, a template for ex-post control reports and on the classification of errors and their impact on reasonable assurance.
At the beginning of a new programming period, as will be the case in 2007, ex-ante controls can focus more clearly on cost categories or types of beneficiaries and thus identify the areas at greatest risk in terms of errors and weaknesses.
Based on the report in Annex 4, special attention needs to be drawn on the conditions for using negotiated procedures, following the increase in number and value of contracts established following this procedure.
On 31 March 2006, the Commission's Accounting Officer communicated to the European Court of Auditors the first accounts of the European Communities to be prepared in accordance with internationally accepted accounting standards.
This work was completed by January 2005, in time so that the 2005 financial year could start on the right basis.
Since January 2005: - The opening balances have been checked and validated by the authorising departments; - The expenses to be accrued at the beginning and end of each year have been estimated by all departments; - The systems of each department have been examined by the Commission's Accounting Officer to ensure that they are capable of recording and communicating the required accounting information; - The Commission's accounts were prepared, and consolidated with those of the other institutions and agencies.
Two Directorates-General formulated reservations indicating uncertainties on the posting of a number of transactions following the new accrual accounting rules, but confirmed the quality of the transaction data entered in the system on 31 March 2006.
Despite the efforts made by Commission services to check and to recheck the opening balances and the accrued expenses, the Court of Auditors may find further errors, which must be corrected in the final accounts which are due by 31 July 2006.
The Commission will make every effort to ensure that any material error found by its auditors is corrected in the final accounts, due to be approved by 31 July 2006.
IT systems and continuity of operations 3.4.1.
Current reflections on the best IT governance arrangements should lead to operational conclusions in 2006 designed to improve management efficiency, effectiveness and economical use of resources. 3.4.2.
Crisis management and business continuity 2005 has seen the introduction of the concept of business continuity in the new Internal Rules of procedures of the Commission.
In addition, new initiatives, including the simplification of administrative procedures and an increased “professionalisation” in the area of human resources management, were also launched. 3.5.1.
The overall vacancy rate for the Commission decreased significantly in 2005, but recruitment problems were experienced in the set-up of executive agencies. 3.5.3.
The Commission has responded to the growing emphasis on mobility in 2005 by increasing career guidance, providing a range of courses for staff to help them prepare for mobility, gathering and disseminating best practices, preparing a strategy for career management of staff.
In this synthesis, the Commission also takes a position on the cross-cutting issues stemming from the examination of these reports and raised by the Internal Auditor, the European Court of Auditors, the Discharge Authority, or identified by the Audit Progress Committee and by the Director-General for Budget in his report “Overview on the state of internal control in Commission Directorates-General and Services” [SEC(2006) 567].
The Commission will ensure that its delegated authorising officers will continue their efforts to guarantee that reasonable assurance in the declarations accompanying the annual reports is effectively underpinned by appropriate internal control systems.
