It endorsed the Council’s Conclusions of 16 June 2003 on the Western Balkan countries including the annex “The Thessaloniki Agenda for the Western Balkans: moving towards European integration”, which introduced the Partnerships as a means to materialise the European perspective of the Western Balkan countries.
In 2004, the Commission presented a first European Partnership with Croatia.
On 3 October 2005, the Member States started negotiations with Croatia on its accession to the European Union.
The Accession Partnership priorities should form the basis for programming the financial assistance of the Community, which will continue to be provided under relevant financial instruments, in particular Council Regulation 3906/89 of 18 December 1989 (PHARE), Council Regulation (EC) No 1267/1999 of 21 June 1999 (ISPA) and Council Regulation (EC) 1268/1999 of 21 June 1999 (SAPARD), as amended by Council Regulation (EC) No 2257/2004 of 20 December 2004, allowing Croatia to benefit from pre-accession instruments.
Proposal for a COUNCIL DECISION On the Principles, Priorities and Conditions contained in the Accession Partnership with Croatia THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, Having regard to Council Regulation (EC) No 533/2004 on the establishment of Partnerships in the framework of the Stabilisation and Association Process[1], and in particular Article 2 and the proposed new Article 1a thereof, Having regard to the proposal from the Commission, Whereas: (1) The European Council endorsed the introduction of the Partnerships as a means to materialise the European perspective of the Western Balkan countries within the framework of the Stabilisation and Association Process. (2) Regulation (EC) No 533/2004 sets out that the Council is to decide on the principles, priorities and conditions to be contained in the Accession Partnerships, as well as any subsequent adjustments. (3) The Council adopted on 13 September 2004 a European Partnership with Croatia[2]. (4) On 3 October 2005, the Member States started negotiations with Croatia on its accession to the European Union.
Article 2 The implementation of the Accession Partnership shall be examined through the mechanisms established under the Stabilisation and Association Process, notably the annual Progress Reports presented by the Commission.
Article 3 This Decision shall take effect on the third day following of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union .
Done at Brussels, For the Council The President ANNEX CROATIA: ACCESSION PARTNERSHIP 2005 1.
A European Partnership with Croatia was adopted by the Council on 13 September 2004.
On 3 October 2005, the Member States started negotiations with Croatia on its accession to the European Union.
It is appropriate to adopt an Accession Partnership which updates the previous Partnership on the basis of the findings of the 2005 Commission’s Progress Report on Croatia.
The main priorities identified for Croatia relate to its capacity to progress in preparing for accession, and in particular to its capacity to meet the criteria defined by the Copenhagen European Council of 1993 and the conditions set for the Stabilisation and Association Process, notably the conditions defined by the Council in its Conclusions of 29 April 1997 and 21 and 22 June 1999, the content of the final declaration of the Zagreb Summit of 24 November 2000 and the Thessaloniki Agenda, and the requirements of the negotiating framework adopted by the Council on 3 October 2005. 3.
Short-term priorities Key Priorities - Implement the strategy and action plan for judicial reform in consultation with interested bodies, including the adoption of necessary new legislation. - Adopt and begin implementation of a national strategy for preventing and combating corruption and provide for the required coordination among the relevant government departments and bodies involved in its implementation, including making the Office for the Suppression of Corruption and Organised Crime fully operational. - Accelerate implementation of the Constitutional Law on National Minorities.
In particular, urgently take steps to ensure proportional representation of minorities in local and regional self government units, in the state administration and judicial bodies, and in bodies of the public administration. - Complete the process of refugee return, including all cases of repossession, reconstruction and housing care for former occupancy/tenancy rights holder, and further enhance regional cooperation for accelerating the process of refugee return and local integration. - Maintain full cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. - Work to find definitive solutions to pending bilateral issues, in particular border issues with Slovenia, Serbia and Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina. - Ensure proper implementation of all commitments undertaken in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement in areas such as competition policy, in particular the need to adopt and implement a restructuring plan for the steel sector, and the acquisition of real estate.
HUMAN RIGHTS AND THE PROTECTION OF MINORITIES - Promote respect for and protection of minorities in accordance with the European Convention on Human Rights and the principles laid down in the Council of Europe's Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities and in line with best practice in EU Member States. - Ensure all cases of ethnically motivated crimes are properly investigated and prosecuted. - Continue to implement the strategy and action plan for the protection and integration of Roma and ensure availability of the necessary means. - Develop and begin to implement a comprehensive anti-discrimination strategy. - Review audio-visual media legislation in line with the recommendations formulated in February 2004 by the joint expertise mission of the Council of Europe, the Commission and the OSCE.
Strengthen the State aid enforcement record, in particular by ensuring respect of notification obligations and a pro-active assessment of all aid measures. - Ensure that existing aid schemes and all fiscal legislation are aligned with the State aid acquis. - Adopt and start implementing viable restructuring programmes in the steel and shipbuilding sectors, in line with EU requirements. - Ensure transparency of State aid by establishing a comprehensive inventory and reporting of all aid measures in force at all administrative levels and raise awareness of competition principles.
Financial services - Strengthen the regulatory and administrative framework for the supervision of financial services and in particular prepare for the transition towards the planned integrated supervisory authority for non-bank financial services. - Prepare the introduction of the new capital requirements framework for credit institutions and investment firms.
Agriculture and rural development - Ensure a fully-operational SAPARD/IPARD agency. - Accelerate work to set up of a proper land parcel identification system and a cattle identification and registration system. - Reinforce the collection and processing of agricultural statistics in line with EU standards and methodology. - Develop a rural development strategy and policy instruments for the design, implementation, management, monitoring, control and evaluation of rural development programmes.
Fisheries - Strengthen administrative and, in particular, inspection structures for fisheries policy. - Start establishing a computerised fishing vessel register. - With regard to the protected ecological and fishing zone, unilaterally declared by Croatia, continue the implementation of the trilateral agreement reached in June 2004.
Taxation - Accelerate alignment of tax legislation with the acquis and ensure its effective enforcement, with particular attention to including free zones in the territorial application of the VAT-regime and to abolishing the existing VAT-zero rates. - Start alignment with the acquis in the field of direct taxation, including provisions on exchange of information with Member States, to facilitate enforcement of anti-avoidance and anti-evasion measures. - Commit to the principles of the Code of Conduct for business taxation and ensure that new tax measures are in conformity with these principles. - Significantly strengthen the capacity of the tax and customs administrations, particularly regarding collection and control functions; continue the work on a functioning and adequately staffed excise duty service; simplify procedures to effectively prosecute tax fraud. - Continue developing the necessary IT systems to allow the exchange of electronic data with the EU and its Member States.
Customs union - Continue strengthening the administrative and operational capacity of customs services, in particular for the control of preferential rules of origin, and accelerate alignment with the EU acquis.
Financial control - Adopt a coherent regulatory framework for Public Internal Financial Control on the basis of the strategy paper. - Continue establishing and reinforcing public internal control functions through the provision of adequate staff, training and equipment. - Establish effective procedures for the detection, treatment, follow-up and communication to the Commission of the irregularities and cases of suspected fraud affecting the Communities' financial interests and establish the administrative structures necessary for the effective and equivalent protection of those interests and for the cooperation with the European Antifraud Office. 3.2.
Continue to reduce subsidies to large loss-making enterprises. - Complete the sale of government minority and majority shares in companies held under the Privatisation Fund. - Further improve conditions for the creation and development of private enterprises and foreign direct investment. - Make substantial progress in strengthening the financial discipline in large enterprises, in particular in the steel, shipbuilding, and railway sectors. - Complete land reform with a particular emphasis on the registration and privatisation of agricultural land. - Continue labour market and education reform with a view to increasing labour force participation and employment rates.
ABILITY TO ASSUME THE OBLIGATIONS OF MEMBERSHIP Free movement of goods - Make substantial progress in the transposition of old and new approach directives and in fulfilling requirements for membership of the European standardisation bodies CEN, CENELEC and ETSI.
Public Procurement - Implement a public procurement regime with all relevant administrative structures and operational tools, and make substantial progress in the work towards complete alignment with the EU acquis, ensuring that public procurement rules are effectively implemented by all contracting authorities and entities at all levels.
Intellectual property law - Complete alignment in the field of intellectual and industrial property rights and strengthen enforcement in the fight against piracy and counterfeiting. - Continue strengthening the enforcement of IPR and reducing levels of piracy and counterfeiting.
Financial services - Complete the alignment with EU prudential requirements and continue strengthening supervisory practices. - Complete implementation of the new capital requirements framework for credit institutions and investment firms.
Agriculture and rural development - Strengthen the administrative structures and capacity needed to implement market and rural development policies. - Establish a vineyard register in line with EU standards. - Continue preparations to establish effective and financially sound paying bodies for the management and control of agricultural funds, in line with EU requirements and international auditing standards.
Fisheries - Substantially improve administrative structures and equipment to ensure effective implementation of the common fisheries policy, including management of resources, inspection and control of fishing activities, market policy, structural programmes and a management plan for the fleet capacity in accordance with available fish resources. - Complete the establishment of a computerised fishing vessel register and of a satellite-based vessel monitoring system.
Ensure appropriate analysis, implementation and assessment capacity. - Develop and implement a national strategy on social inclusion, including data collection, in line with EU practice with a view to future participation in the European Strategy on social inclusion. - Identify needs for human resources development to prepare for the European Social Fund.
Regional policy and coordination of structural instruments - Ensure a clear distribution of responsibilities and strengthen coordination, both at inter-ministerial level and between national and regional authorities. - Continue to build up capacity in the designated managing and paying authorities. - Improve the design and implementation of regional development plans. - Set up proper monitoring and evaluation systems and enhance financial management and control procedures. - Introduce adequate regional statistics.
Justice, freedom and security - Bring national legislation in line with EU rules and best practices and further strengthen border control; develop national databases and registers and ensure coordination between the relevant services. - Develop a national database for checking asylum seekers’ personal data, including fingerprints, with a view to preparing for participation in EURODAC. - Enhance efforts to integrate refugees. - Further improve the equipment and infrastructure of the police, including the establishment of a computer-based investigation system; strengthen cooperation between the police and other law enforcement agencies; reinforce the fight against drug trafficking, organised crime, economic crime (including money laundering and counterfeiting of currencies), fraud and corruption; improve alignment of the related national legislation with the acquis in these sectors. - Prepare for the application of various legal instruments in the field of judicial co-operation in penal and civil matters by providing appropriate training on court to court dealings.
Consumer and Health Protection - Complete alignment with the EU acquis on safety-related measures and strengthen the administrative capacity needed for effective market surveillance. - Continue alignment with the EU acquis on non-safety related measures.
CONDITIONALITY Community assistance under the Stabilisation and Association Process to the Western Balkan countries is conditional on further progress in satisfying the Copenhagen criteria as well as progress in meeting the specific priorities of this Accession Partnership.
Failure to respect these conditions could lead the Council to take appropriate measures on the basis of Article 5 of Council Regulation (EC) No 2666/2000[7].
Community assistance for financing projects through the three pre-accession instruments PHARE, ISPA and SAPARD is further conditional on respect by Croatia of its commitments under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, further steps towards satisfying the Copenhagen criteria and in particular progress in meeting the specific priorities of this Accession Partnership.
Failure to respect these general conditions could lead to a decision by the Council on the suspension of financial assistance on the basis of Article 4 of Regulation (EC) No 622/98. 6.
MONITORING The implementation of the Accession Partnership shall be examined through the framework of the mechanisms established under the Stabilisation and Association Process, notably the annual Reports presented by the Commission. [1] OJ L 86, 24.3.2004, p. 1.
Regulation as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 2257/2004 (OJ L 389, 30.12.2004, p. 1). [4] Council (EEC) No 3906/89 (OJ L 375, 23.12.1989, p. 11).
Regulation as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 2257/2004 (OJ L 389, 30.12.2004, p. 1) [5] Council (EC) No 1268/99 (OJ L 161, 26.6.1999, p. 87).
Regulation as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 2257/2004 (OJ L 389, 30.12.2004, p. 1). [6] Council Regulation (EC) No 1267/99 ( OJ L 161, 26.6.1999, p. 73) .
Regulation as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 2257/2004 (OJ L 389, 30.12.2004, p. 1) [7] Article 5 of Council Regulation (EC) No 2666/2000: "1.
Community assistance shall also be subject to the conditions defined by the Council in its Conclusions of 29 April 1997, in particular as regards the recipients' undertaking to carry out democratic, economic and institutional reforms."
