The Need for a Joint Harmonised EU Programme The regular business and consumer surveys of the joint harmonised EU Programme are qualitative economic surveys, intended for short-term economic analysis.
The first survey was the harmonised business survey in industry conducted in 1962.
Since this positive externality of harmonisation occurs mainly at EU and euro area level rather than at the level of the national survey-conducting institutions, the Commission decided from the outset to support the activity of the collaborating institutions with action grants (COM (61) PV 165 final, 15 November 1961).
These grants, which are limited to a maximum of 50 % of the costs of the action, also intend to cover the incremental costs that arise initially from the inclusion of additional harmonised questions or the addition of new sectors and branches in the surveys and/or the change of certain questions from a non-harmonised type to a harmonised one.
The investment survey is conducted twice a year.
The number of questions varies between areas and lies between 6 and 15.
More than 100000 firms and over 30000 consumers are surveyed each month in the EU, the samples varying in accordance with the size of the country.
The consumers are split into 25 socio-economic categories.
A quarterly survey addressed to economic experts around the world, the World Economic Survey, is also included in the Programme and gives information about economic developments on a global scale.
The Commission will assure that the programme will also fulfil this role in the future by constantly enhancing and improving its features thereby allowing it to continue to provide essential information for the purpose of economic decision making in the European Union. [1] The European Evaluation Consortium, Evaluation of Business and Consumer Surveys, Final Report, 22 April 2005 [2] The BCS are part of the annual work programme of the Directorate General Economic and Financial Affairs and are authorised by means of a financing decision adopted by the Commission -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX GRAPH: ECONOMIC SENTIMENT, SECTORAL CONFIDENCE AND GDP IN THE EURO AREA +++++ TIFF +++++ --------------------------------------------------
