Communication from the Commission to the Council, the European Parliament, the European Economic and Social committee and the Committee of the Regions - Mid term review of the eTEN Programme /* COM/2005/0354 final */ [pic] | COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES | Brussels, 1.8.2005 COM(2005)354 final COMMUNICATION FROM THE COMMISSION TO THE COUNCIL, THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT, THE EUROPEAN ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL COMMITTEE AND THE COMMITTEE OF THE REGIONS Mid term review of the eTEN Programme 1.
INTRODUCTION In accordance with article 14 of the eTEN Decision of the European Parliament and the Council establishing the Guidelines for trans-European telecommunications networks “the Commission shall submit a report on the implementation of this Decision during the period July 2000 to June 2004, to the European Parliament, the Council, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions”.
The two objectives were: - To evaluate ex post the implementation and performance in relation to objectives and results of the programme over the period July 2000 to June 2004, extended to include an assessment of the longer term socio-economic impacts of the programme, - To evaluate ex ante possible programme re-orientations in the near future (until end 2006) and possible policy options for a new phase of the programme from 2006.
The “Conclusions and Recommendations” of the draft final report of this evaluation was made available to the eTEN Management Committee on 14 December 2004. 2.
Following the previous review of the TEN Telecom programme[4], and also “the Special Report from the Court of Auditors”[5], Annex 1 to the Guidelines Decision was revised redefining the “services of common interest”, and the programme became known as eTEN.
eTEN is now concerned with accelerating the takeup of trans-European eServices of common interest in the EU and is a support programme for the achievement of objectives defined in the eEurope Action Plan 2005.
COMMISSION’S GENERAL APPRAISAL OF THE EVALUATION The Commission accepts the Evaluation Report as being a fair assessment of the eTEN Programme during the period July 2000 to June 2004.
Taking both the ex-ante and ex-post conclusions into account, the Commission is now engaged in the definition of such a new follow on Programme.
Conclusion 1: The changes to the programme’s legal base in 2002 has had significant positive effects on the implementation of the programme.
The Commission largely concurs with this and related conclusions, 6, 7 and 8.
Conclusions 6: Weak participation of public partners in the projects constitutes a barrier to deployment and to achievement of large-scale impacts.
Conclusion 9: eTEN plays an important role in the value chain from research to deployment.
The committed involvement of public bodies is already strongly promoted in the Information Campaign as well as in the reinforced award criteria.
Recommendation 2: Give priority to replication of services that have demonstrated their sustainability and utility in a national context.
Recommendation 4: Continue the push for an increase in the overall funding ceiling for projects.
Recommendation 5: Define project objectives and milestones in terms of concrete results, not deliverables.
Recommendation 6: Continue refinement of the Work Programme.
The Work Programme for 2005 takes into account experience gained from previous Calls for Proposals and recommendations made in the evaluation report.
In view of the conclusion of the Evaluation Report stating that “The overall objectives of eTEN are fully in line with the Lisbon Strategy”, recommendations of a longer term nature have been taken into account as described in section 6 above in re designing the programme as a key element in a new initiative to follow-up eEurope 2005, namely the i2010 initiative launched by Commissioner Reding on 1 June 2005.
