BACKGROUND Date of transmission of the proposal to the EP and the Council (document COM(2006)15 final – 2006/0005 COD): | 18.1.2006 | Date of the opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee: | 17.5.2006 | Date of the opinion of the European Parliament, first reading: | 13.6.2006 | Date of adoption of the Common Position: | 23.11.2006 | 2.
The partly introduced amendment 38 (Article 5) also adds the obligatory consideration of "foreseeable land use or climate change" in the preliminary flood risk assessment, which is not reflected in the Common Position either.
Amendments 17, 24, 31, 37, 41, 55 and 71 introduce requirements for the use of existing instruments, which are in principle incorporated in the Common Position (Article 13) .
The Common Position also extends the date by when these instruments shall be considered available to qualify for the exemptions possible under this Article to the deadline of 12 December 2012, whereby amendment 71 refers to the date of entry into force.
Amendment 49 is partly incorporated in the Common Position (Article 6.5.c) as regards focusing on specific sources of pollution and specific sensitive areas for environmental damage, rather than for estimating the potential environmental and economic damage.
Although flood plains and their role as flood retention areas and conveyance routes are taken in the Common Position, amendment 54 adds a more detailed analysis of flooding processes and long term developments to the flood risk management plan (Article 7) .
Although parts of amendment 56 on cross border cooperation are retained in the Common Position, the specific requirement that flood risk management plans (Chapter IV) shall be established involving local and regional authorities and that human uses of flood plains shall be adapted to the identified risk are not included.
Amendment 5 (recital) on the importance of vertical coordination (national, regional and local authorities) is not taken up in the Common Position.
Amendment 13 specifies the importance of integration of flood risk management in other EU policies.
Amendments 19 and 21 add technical details in relation to flood forecasting .
Amendment 34 mainly concerns consideration of subsidence in the preliminary flood risk assessment.
Amendment 58 adds that an assessment of rescue and recovery measures shall also be included in the flood risk management plans, which means adding the review part of the flood risk management cycle to the focus of this Directive.
Amendment 62 adds a communication requirement regarding changes to the implementation timetable in river basins shared between different Member States, within the six-year-period between flood risk management plans.
The separate vote on Article 13 (Article 9 in the Common Position) strengthens the close coordination and integration between this proposed directive with that of Directive 2000/60/EC , whereby the Council's Common Position limits the requirements by removing the requirement of close coordination and by making such coordination optional (Article 9, recital 16) .
Amendment 73 requires the Commission to report on the impacts of climate change in its regular report on implementation.
Amendment 45 (linguistic) is redundant with the Common Position text.
Timetable : The Common Position changes the date for the finalisation of the first preliminary flood risk assessment to 22 December 2012, rather than 3 year's after the entry into force of the Directive (Article 4.3).
Cooperation in shared river basin : This is strengthened in the common position in relation to all three stages of the Directive, in the preliminary flood risk assessment (Article 4.2 and 5.2 ), the flood maps (Article 6.2) , as well as in relation to the flood risk management plans (Articles 7.4 and 8).
Flood risk management plans : The Common Position introduces the possibility to produce more than one flood risk management plan in the river basin district, provided these are coordinated at the level of the river basin district (Articles 7 and 8) .
Commission statement on the correlation table ( Article 17, ex-Article 19 ) The Commission wishes to highlight its proposal, in accordance with the objectives of the inter-institutional agreement on better lawmaking, concerning the establishment by the Member States of tables that demonstrate the correlation between the Directive and the transposition measures taken by the Member States, so as to allow the Commission to verify the conformity of national measures with the provisions in Community legislation.
