Opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee on the &amp;lsquo;Proposal for a Council Regulation establishing a Community Fisheries Control Agency and amending Regulation (EC) No. 2847/93 establishing a control system applicable to the Common Fisheries Policy&amp;rsquo;(COM(2004) 289 final &amp;mdash; 2003/0108 (CNS)) Opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee on the "Proposal for a Council Regulation establishing a Community Fisheries Control Agency and amending Regulation (EC) No. 2847/93 establishing a control system applicable to the Common Fisheries Policy" (COM(2004) 289 final — 2003/0108 (CNS)) (2005/C 157/09) On 14 May 2004, the Council decided to consult the European Economic and Social Committee, under Article 37 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, on the abovementioned proposal.
At its 413th plenary session of 15 and 16 December 2004 (meeting of 15 December 2004), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 138 votes to three, with seven abstentions. 1.
This last point should be included in the Agency's mission as detailed in Article 4 of the proposal for a Regulation. 2.3 Given that the Agency will be the first agency dedicated exclusively to fisheries-related issues, the Committee considers that the draft Regulation should provide for the possibility of the Agency's competences being extended in future. 2.4 To this end, the EESC believes that the Agency could provide Member States and the Commission with technical and scientific advice on the effective enforcement of the rules of the CFP, in particular on the effectiveness of the inspection and control measures proposed.
The Committee believes that, once the Agency becomes operational, it must comply with the rules on confidentiality referred to in Article 33 of the Council proposal. 2.8 The EESC considers the form of the joint deployment plans referred to in Chapter III of the Commission proposal to be crucial to the effective, uniform and balanced enforcement of control policy by the various Member States.
Furthermore, the Committee accepts that the Court of Justice of the European Communities should have jurisdiction in disputes relating to compensation for any damage arising from the contractual liability of the Agency. 2.13 The cornerstone of the Agency's structure as presented by the Commission in Article 25 is, as in any undertaking, be it public or private, the Administrative Board.
In the interests of greater transparency and the closer involvement of the fisheries sector, the EESC considers that there should also be an obligation to forward these reports to the European Union's Advisory Committee on Fisheries and Aquaculture. 2.18 Article 29 of the proposal for a Regulation requires representatives of the fishing industry on the Administrative Board to make a declaration of interests indicating either the absence of any interests which might be prejudicial to their independence or any direct or indirect interests which might be considered prejudicial to their independence.
Article 31 of the proposed Regulation should therefore state that the removal of the Executive Director from his or her post should, like his or her appointment, require a two-thirds majority of the members of the Executive Board.
Brussels, 15 December 2004.
