CESR provided its advice to the Commission in March 2005 [3].
CREDIT RATING AGENCIES 2.1 Functioning of credit rating agencies Credit rating agencies issue opinions on the creditworthiness of a particular issuer or financial instrument.
These opinions — or ratings — are based on information relating to revenue stream and balance sheet (with particular focus on the debt) of the rated entity.
The credit ratings effectively categorise issuers into corresponding grades, depending on whether they are considered as more or less default-prone.
Additionally, it follows from the Directive 2003/6/EC that, in case a credit rating agency knew, or ought to have known, that the credit rating was false or misleading, the prohibition to disseminate false or misleading information, constituting market manipulation, may apply to credit ratings [9].
Consequently, the Commission will monitor actively the implementation and enforcement of these provisions in the Market Abuse Directives in relation to credit rating agencies.
In addition, their rating procedures should be sufficiently transparent.
MiFID and its future implementing measures are not applicable to the rating process of credit rating agencies in the case where the rating process itself does not involve the firm undertaking investment services and activities as defined in the MiFID.
However, credit rating agencies are expected to give full effect to the provisions of the IOSCO Code — as long as these provisions are consistent with the EU Directives.
This requires that credit rating agencies incorporate the IOSCO Standards in their procedures.
It is very important that credit rating agencies not only incorporate the IOSCO Code in their own Code of Conduct but fully comply with the IOSCO Code by enforcing their Code of Conduct in daily practice.
The Commission is confident that these Directives — when combined with self regulation by the credit rating agencies themselves on the basis of the newly adopted IOSCO Code — will provide an answer to all the major issues of concern raised by the European Parliament.
