Considers that it is of primary importance to the enlarged Union of 25 Member States and 450 million inhabitants: - to reinforce the links between the Union's peoples and the project that it represents, while at the same time strengthening the sense of belonging to the European Union and the recognition of each person's own history, culture, identity and distinctiveness, - to make action and the exercise of power more coherent at local, regional, national and EU level, in line with the principle of subsidiarity, - to implement the existing legislation in good time and hence transpose the directives in the area; - to respect the principle of confidence as referred to its resolution of 20 April 2004 on the Commission Communication on Article 7 of the Treaty on European Union: Respect for and promotion of the values on which the Union is based [5]; 2.
Recalls that, pursuant to Article 191 TEC, political parties at European level are important as a factor for integration within the Union; is concerned, therefore, at the growing public acceptance of profoundly racist, anti-semitic, islamophobic and homophobic statements and actions by prominent politicians and Members of government; calls on all political parties to renew their commitment to the Charter of European political parties for a non-racist society, adopted on 5 December 1997, and therefore stresses that the fundamental prerequisites of the political parties for an inclusive minority policy are: - the need for adequate representation in political decision making, - the need to safeguard equal treatment of minorities with regard to education, healthcare, social services, justice and other public services; - the need for the European Parliament to take into account the cultural and linguistic diversity of the EU and its Member States (as the seats per Member State will decrease with every subsequent enlargement); 3.
Points to the fact that, in implementing a policy of protecting minorities and of anti-discrimination, the Union must not seek to question the legal and constitutional structure of its Member States or the principle that all are equal before the law; The shortcomings in the Member States' responses to the measures based on Article 13 of the EC Treaty 11.
Calls on the institutions of the European Union, the Member States, all European democratic political parties, and civil society and associations belonging thereto, to: - condemn all acts and expressions of anti-semitism and anti-Muslim and anti-Christian behaviour, the revival of holocaust denial theories, the denial and trivialisation of acts of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes, - condemn all acts of intolerance and incitement to racial hatred and all acts of harassment or racist violence, - condemn all acts of violence motivated by religious or racial hatred or intolerance, including attacks on all religious places, sites and shrines, - condemn all acts of homophobic or transphobic violence, including harassment, humiliation and verbal or physical abuse, by both the state and private individuals [9]; - condemn the fact that discrimination on religious and ethnic grounds continues at various levels, notwithstanding the important measures adopted by the European Union in application of Article 13 of the EC Treaty; draws particular attention in this respect to discrimination by the judiciary of people from minorities; 22.
Points to the fact that women continue to suffer discrimination in various areas of everyday life, in spite of the legislation in force on combating discrimination; 32.
Calls upon the Council to move towards agreement on the Commission's proposal for a Council Framework Decision on combating racism and xenophobia [10]; considers that the Framework Decision will be an important step towards establishing a framework for punishing racist/xenophobic violence as a criminal offence across the EU and recognising racist and xenophobic motivation as aggravating circumstances, leading to longer sentences; recalls its position of 4 July 2002 [11], which was favourable to the proposal; welcomes the decision of the Justice and Home Affairs Council on 24 February 2005 to reconsider the previously stalled Framework Decision; Future economic and financial measures 51.
Welcomes the recent initiatives taken by the Commission in this field, namely: - the establishment by the President of the Commission of a Group of Commissioners for Fundamental Rights, which must play a crucial role in contributing to the protection of minorities and non-discrimination, - the establishment of an inter-service group bringing together representatives of 14 different Commission services; 53.
Calls on Member States to introduce legal protection against discrimination, including positive measures taking into account the gender dimension, on the grounds covered by Article 13 of the EC Treaty; 59.
The Constitution also states that the Union must "combat social exclusion and discrimination, and shall promote social justice and protection, equality between women and men, solidarity between generations and protection of the rights of the child" (Article I-3(3), subparagraph 2). [2] OJ L 180, 19.7.2000, p. 22. [3] OJ L 303, 2.12.2000, p. 16. [4] OJ L 269, 5.10.2002, p. 15. [5] OJ C 104 E, 30.4.2004, p. 408. [6] One of the three Copenhagen criteria concerns being a stable democracy, the rule of law, human rights and respect for and protection of minorities. [7] Infringement procedures against a number of Member States have already been launched by the Commission for failing to communicate national measures transposing Directives 2000/43/EC and 2000/78/EC.
