Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council relating to measures envisaged to facilitate the procedures for applying for and issuing visas for members of the Olympic family taking part in the 2006 Olympic and /or Paralympic Winter Games in Torino /* COM/2005/0412 final - COD 2005/0169 */ [pic] | COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES | Brussels, 07.09.2005 COM(2005) 412 final 2005/0169 (COD) Proposal for a REGULATION OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL relating to measures envisaged to facilitate the procedures for applying for and issuing visas for members of the Olympic family taking part in the 2006 Olympic and /or Paralympic Winter Games in Torino (presented by the Commission) EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM 1.
Although the entire duration of the derogation period (Olympic and Paralympic Games) was 108 days and the fact that some Members of the Olympic family were accredited for both Games, no violation of the basic rule of maximum duration of 90 days has been observed.
Nevertheless, the system proposed in no way affects the rules of the Schengen acquis as regards procedures and verifications required for the purposes of public order and public safety; - The organisations responsible for proposing the Members of the Olympic family will submit to the 2006 Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games Organizing Committee, together with the request for accreditation, a list of persons subject to the visa requirement who are to participate in the 2006 Olympic and/or Paralympic Winter Games; - Basic data of the persons concerned, such as their name, forename, sex, date and place of birth, as well as passport number and its type and expiry date, will be communicated on the accreditation card application form.
For cases where the duration of the stay of members of the Olympic family is expected to exceed the maximum period of three months, the Italian Authorities could issue specific temporary residence permits in compliance legislation; - The visa issued to a member of the Olympic family will be marked on the accreditation card by a reference to the number of the visa and to the passport number of the person concerned; - During the entire derogation period, the Italian authorities will inform the other Schengen States of any fact or event likely to have an impact on the level of security in the Schengen area and transmit any relevant data to them; - The derogation procedure described above does not rule out the possibility of a member of the Olympic family submitting an individual visa application in accordance with the Schengen acquis ; - This proposal does not concern members of the Olympic family who are nationals of third countries subject to a visa requirement and holders of a residence permit or a provisional residence permit issued by one of the Member States implementing the Schengen acquis .
PROPORTIONALITY Article 5 of the EC Treaty provides that “any action by the Community shall not go beyond what is necessary to achieve the objectives of this Treaty”.
Consideration must therefore be given to certain consequences arising from the various Protocols: United Kingdom and Ireland In accordance with Articles 4 and 5 of the Protocol integrating the Schengen acquis into the framework of the European Union, “Ireland and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, which are not bound by the Schengen acquis , may at any time request to take part in some or all of the provisions of the acquis ”.
Where however, as in this case, the proposals constitute a development of the Schengen acquis , Article 5 of the Protocol states that, “Denmark shall decide within a period of six months after the Council has decided on a proposal or initiative to build upon the Schengen acquis under the provisions of Title IV of the Treaty establishing the European Community, whether it will implement this decision in its national law”.
The present proposal builds upon the Schengen acquis as defined in Annex A to the Agreement.
The Agreement with Switzerland, signed on 26 October 2004, provides for provisional application of certain provisions upon signatures, in particular the participation of Switzerland in the Mixed Committee dealing with the development of the Schengen acquis . 4.
Therefore only Article 9 of the current proposal is applicable to the new Member States. 5.
This Article (paragraphs 5 and 6) also defines the Organising Committee of the Olympic Games and the services responsible for issuing visas.
Article 4 This Article provides that the responsible organisations may, together with the application to the Organising Committee of the 2006 Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games for an accreditation card, submit a collective application for visas for the members of the Olympic family who are required to have a visa in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 539/2001.
Article 8 This Article defines the procedure to be followed in the event that the selection made by the responsible organisation is changed at the last minute.
These will be limited to verification of compliance with the conditions set out in Article 3 of this Regulation, which are less rigid than the normal rules applicable to checks at the external borders.
All members of the Olympic Family participating in the 2006 Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games will benefit from the facilitated conditions regarding checks at external borders whether or not they have submitted a visa obligation or are exempt from it.
Article 10 The derogation arrangements will be assessed after the closure of the 2006 Paralympic Winter Games.
Article 11 This is the standard final provision on the application of the Regulation by Member States fully implementing the Schengen acquis. 2005/0169 (COD) Proposal for a REGULATION OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL relating to measures envisaged to facilitate the procedures for applying for and issuing visas for members of the Olympic family taking part in the 2006 Olympic and /or Paralympic Winter Games in Torino THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular Article 62(2) points a) and b) ii) thereof, Having regard to the proposal from the Commission[7], Acting in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 251[8], Whereas: (1) Council Regulation (EC) No 1295/2003 of 15 July 2003 relating to measures envisaged to facilitate the procedures for applying for and issuing visas for members of the Olympic family taking part in the Olympic or Paralympic Games in Athens[9] set up a specific temporary system derogating from the normal visa issuing procedures for the members of the Olympic family participating in the Athens 2004 Olympic Games, to enable Greece to host the first Olympic and Paralympic Games organised by a Member State being part of the Schengen area without internal borders and in order to allow Greece to respect its obligation under the Olympic Charter. (2) Regulation (EC) No 1295/2003 foresaw specific provisions facilitating the procedures for submitting applications for uniform visas and the form in which visas are issued for the members of the Olympic family, as well as simplification of external border controls for this category of persons.
It included an evaluation clause and the transmission by the Commission of a report to this purpose to the European Parliament and Council. (3) In its evaluation, the Commission concluded that the implementation of Regulation (EC) No 1295/2003 was successful, and the derogation system has been considered effective, flexible and adequate for regulating the entry and short stay of the members of the Olympic family participating in the Games, within the Schengen area without internal borders. (4) Therefore the European Union should adopt a similar derogation system for the 2006 Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games to allow Italy to honour as hosting country its Olympic Chapter obligations, while ensuring a high level of security in the Schengen area without internal borders. (5) Although the visa obligation is maintained for members of the Olympic family who are nationals of third countries subject to the visa requirement under Council Regulation (EC) No 539/2001 of 15 March 2001 listing the third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the external borders and those whose nationals are exempt from that requirement[10], a temporary derogation should be established for the duration of the 2006 Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games. (6) The scope of this derogation should be limited to the provisions of the acquis concerning the submission of visa applications, the issuing of visas and their format.
These applications should be forwarded to the Italian services responsible for issuing visas. (8) The Organizing Committee of the 2006 Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games issues accreditation cards to members of the Olympic family, in conformity with the specific rules defined by Italian law.
The visa issued is affixed by means of entering a number in the accreditation card. (9) Irrespective of the provisions of this Regulation, members of the Olympic family may still submit individual applications for visas in accordance with the relevant Schengen acquis. (10) Where no specific provisions are laid down in this Regulation, the relevant provisions of the Schengen acquis on visas and controls at Member States' external borders will apply.
Chapter II ISSUE OF VISAS Article 3 Conditions A visa may be issued pursuant to this Regulation only where the person concerned: a) has been designated by one of the responsible organisations and accredited by the Organising Committee of the 2006 Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games as a participant in the 2006 Olympic and/or Paralympic Games; b) holds a valid travel document authorising the crossing of the external borders, as referred to in Article 5 of the Convention of 19 June 1990 implementing the Schengen Agreement of 14 June 1985 between the Governments of the States of the Benelux economic union, the Federal Republic of Germany and the French Republic on the gradual abolition of checks at their common borders (hereinafter referred to as the “Schengen Convention”)[13]; c) is not a person for whom an alert has been issued for the purposes of refusing entry; d) is not considered to be a threat to public policy, national security or the international relations of one of the Member States.
Article 4 Filing of the application 1.
Where a responsible organisation draws up a list of the persons selected to take part in the 2006 Olympic and/or Paralympic Winter Games, it may, together with the application for an Olympic accreditation card for the persons selected, file a collective application for visas for those persons selected who are required to be in possession of a visa in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 539/2001, except when those persons are holders of a residence permit issued by a Schengen Member State. 2.
Collective applications for visas for the persons concerned shall be forwarded at the same time as applications for the issue of an Olympic accreditation card to the Organising Committee of the 2006 Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games in accordance with the procedure established by it. 3.
Article 5 Examination of the collective application for visas and type of the visa issued 1.
The visa issued shall be a uniform short-stay, multiple entry visa authorising a stay of not more than ninety (90) days for the duration of the 2006 Olympics and/or Paralympic Winter Games. 3.
Article 6 Form of the visa 1.
Article 7 Waiver of Fees The processing of visa applications and the issue of visas shall not give rise to any fees being charged by the services responsible for issuing visas.
Article 9 External border checks 1.
When crossing the external borders of the Member States the entry checks carried out on members of the Olympic family who have been issued visas in accordance with this Regulation shall be limited to verifying compliance with the conditions set out in Article 3. 2.
Article 11 Entry into force This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union .
Done at Brussels, For the European Parliament For the Council The President The President [1] OJ L 183, 22.7.2003, p.1. [2] OJ L 81, 21.3.2001, p.1.
Convention as last amended by Council Decision 2005/211/JHA (OJ L 68, 15.3.2005, p. 44).
