Political and legal background On 19 January 2001 the European Community concluded an Agreement with the Republic of Iceland and the Kingdom of Norway concerning the criteria and mechanisms for establishing the State responsible for examining a request for asylum lodged in a Member State or in Iceland or Norway.
Article 12 of that Agreement states that Denmark may request to participate in the Agreement, and that the conditions for such participation are to be determined by the Community, Norway and Iceland, acting with the consent of Denmark, in a Protocol to the Agreement.
Pursuant to Articles 1 and 2 of the Protocol on the position of Denmark annexed to the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty establishing the European Community, Denmark did not take part in the adoption by the Council of Regulation (EC) No 343/2003 establishing the criteria and mechanisms for determining the Member State responsible for examining an asylum application lodged in one of the Member States by a third-country national (“the Dublin II Regulation”) and Council Regulation (EC) No 2725/2000 concerning the establishment of “Eurodac” for the comparison of fingerprints for the effective application of the Dublin Convention (“the Eurodac Regulation”).
By decision of 6 May 2003, the Council authorised the Commission to negotiate a Protocol to the Agreement between the European Community, the Republic of Iceland and the Kingdom of Norway concerning the criteria and mechanisms for establishing the State responsible for examining a request for asylum lodged in a Member State or in Iceland or Norway, in accordance with Article 12 of the Agreement.
The negotiations for the conclusion of the Protocol to the Agreement with Norway and Iceland culminated in the initialling of the text on 12 January 2005.
Amendments to the Acts referred to under paragraph 1 and 2 which are notified by Denmark to the Commission in accordance with Article 3 of the Agreement between the European Community and Denmark and which are notified by Iceland and Norway to the Commission in accordance with Article 4 of the Agreement between the European Community, Iceland and Norway shall under international law apply to the relations between Denmark on the one hand and Iceland and Norway on the other hand. 4.
Article 5 This Protocol is subject to ratification or approval by the Contracting Parties.
The entry into force of this Protocol is also subject to the prior receipt by the depositary of a Note from the Kingdom of Denmark to the effect that the Kingdom of Denmark assents to the provisions contained in the present Protocol and declares that it shall apply the provisions referred to in Article 2 in its mutual relations with Iceland and Norway.
Article 6 Each Contracting Party may terminate this Protocol by written declaration to the depositary.
