SUMMARY COUNCIL REGULATION (EEC) No 2081/92 "PATACA DE GALICIA" OR "PATATA DE GALICIA".
EC No: ES/00205/ 06.09.2001 PDO ( ) PGI (X) This summary has been drawn up for information purposes only.
Responsible department in the Member State: Name: | Ministerio de Agricultura, Pesca y Alimentación Dirección General de Alimentación Subdirección General de Denominaciones de Calidad y Relaciones Interprofesionales y Contractuales | Address: | Paseo Infanta Isabel, 1, E-28071 Madrid | Tel.: | (34) 913 47 53 94 | Fax: | (34) 913 47 54 10 | 2.
Group: Name : S.A.T.
N447 XUGA — A Limia.
Specification: (Summary of requirements under Article 4(2)) Name : "Pataca de Galicia" or "Patata de Galicia".
Description - oval to round form, - shallow eyes, - thin, smooth, bright yellow skin, - white flesh, - texture: firm to the touch, creamy when cooked, substantial in the mouth, - suitability for consumption: excellent, due to high dry-matter content and quality of colour, aroma and taste when cooked, - other characteristics: over 18 % dry matter and less than 0,4 % reducing sugars.
Geographical area - "Bergantiños": comprising the Municipalities of Carballo, Coristanco, Laracha, Malpica and Ponteceso (in the Province of La Coruña). - "Terra Cha-A Mariña": the entirety of the Municipalities of Abadín, Alfoz, Barreiros, Cospeito, Foz, Lourenzá Mondoñedo, Ribadeo, Trabada, Valadouro, Vilalba and Xermade (Province of Lugo). - "Lemos": the Municipalities of Monforte, Pantón and Saviñao (Province of Lugo). - A Limia: the entirety of the Municipalities of Baltar, Os Blancos, Calvos de Randín, Porqueira, Rairíz de Veiga, Sandiás, Sarreaus, Trasmiras, Vilar de Santos and Xinzo de Limia; and the parishes of Coedo and Torneiros in the Municipality of Allaríz; the parishes of Atas, Cualedro, Lucenza, Vilela and A Xironda in the Municipality of Cualedro; the parishes of Bóveda, Padreda, Seiró and Vilar de Barrio in the Municipality of Vilar de Barrio and the parishes of A Abeleda, Bobadela a Pinta, A Graña and Sobradelo in the Municipality of Xunqueira de Ambía (Province of Ourense).
Abundant manuring of the soil (about 25 to 30 tonnes per hectare) greatly benefits the crop's culinary quality.
Name: | Consejo Regulador de la Denominación Específica "Pataca de Galicia" | Address: | Finca Devesa, s/n.
