At its 410th plenary session (meeting of 1 July 2004) the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 129 votes to none with 2 abstentions. 1.
Indeed, achieving the goals of the Lisbon Strategy is largely dependent on how it is pursued in metropolitan areas. 1.5 The EESC therefore urges that, besides setting up a forum to bring together metropolitan areas and the Commission, this matter also be discussed in the Competitiveness Council and the informal Council for Regional Planning and Urban Issues. 2.
In practice, these minimum thresholds have been set arbitrarily, and are therefore of varying importance.
Examples are the Randstad, with 7 million inhabitants, the Rhine-Ruhr region, with 11 million inhabitants, the Vienna-Bratislava region with 4.6 million inhabitants, the Oresund region with 2.5 million inhabitants and the Lille region with 1.9 inhabitants [4]. 2.6 Depending on their size and function, metropolitan areas have regional, national, European or global influence.
In this respect, the Third Report underlines in particular the role of cities and major agglomerations. 2.9 The impulse for new approaches and fresh ideas comes chiefly from globalisation, the completion of the single market (including in the new Member States), and from the Lisbon Strategy.
The EESC therefore believes that the European Union should ensure that these are provided. 3.
The prosperity of metropolitan areas is essential to solving problems of social and territorial cohesion in their own areas and in other European cities and regions. 3.2 Metropolitan areas, in European as elsewhere in the world, are facing a number of major challenges: globalisation, which is linked to the integration of international markets in goods, services, capital, expertise and skilled and unskilled labour, leading to the rapid transformation of their manufacturing systems; sustainable development, which calls for prudent management of natural resources; social cohesion; quality of life; and territorial cohesion. 3.2.1 Many cities and metropolitan areas are successfully adapting their economic, social and institutional structures.
Most of the regions concerned have made economic progress, sometimes even substantial progress, as a result of these EU policies. 3.4 The evaluation of regions in Europe has consequently been confined to an analysis of the regions that have benefited from the Structural Funds. 3.5 The relatively favourable or unfavourable economic and social trends in other regions cannot be ignored.
The EESC believes that they must also be analysed in-depth at European level.
For example, a British Government initiative setting up a working party bringing together the 8 "core cities", 9 regional development agencies and several ministerial departments in order to establish an action plan to improve the economic performance of the metropolitan areas and, consequently, the competitiveness of the country [6].
In France, following the publication of a report on European cities [7], the government drew up a national strategy aimed at raising the profile of the French metropolises at European level [8]. 3.11 Recent history shows clearly that we are living in times in which a new attitude is emerging towards the development of the major urban areas.
This is a very important basis for the network society, in which metropolitan areas play a key role. 4.9 These metropolitan areas are also important centres for culture, tourism and leisure activities.
In many cases, the success of a metropolitan area is largely due to the collaboration and interaction of public and private stakeholders. 4.12 This cooperation and the interaction of public and private interests are crucial in the context of metropolitan areas.
Metropolises also play a crucial part in consolidating a European model of society. 4.14 The European economy is in a major period of transition with enlargement and the integration of the single market.
Metropolitan areas could provide a good example of how to restore social and territorial equilibrium in the European Union.
This can also happen in metropolitan areas, despite the fact that they are often able to change their economic base.
The nerve centres of metropolitan areas are a particular target for new forms of terrorism.
These trends are worrying in the current international political situation. 5.9 Environmental protection and compliance with sustainable development objectives are another challenge facing metropolitan areas.
Public funds are, as a rule, insufficient, and the success of public-private partnerships has so far been limited. 5.11 Shortcomings in metropolitan areas are aggravated when the administrative management of these areas does not keep pace with economic development and the increase in population, housing and commuting.
There are outstanding examples in which the regional government, as a rule supported by the national government, together with the private sector and organised civil society, are changing the course of events and are creating a new pattern for the future.
With a few exceptions, they are geographically inadequate for a reliable picture and comparison of the economic, social and environmental situation in metropolitan areas at European level.
In order to make the most of the constraints and opportunities of the changing international environment, the metropolitan areas need a continually updated performance assessment at European level. 6.4.2 It would also be desirable to have reliable analyses and comparisons at European level on important aspects, including problems linked to immigration, job quality, poverty and exclusion, the environment, security and others. 6.5 Over the last few decades, the US has been producing a large number of up-to-date, comparable data on its 276 metropolitan areas and these are freely available on the Internet [11].
Given that, with regard to implementation of the Lisbon Strategy, it is now important to have reliable, comparable data on European metropolitan areas, the EESC believes the time has come for the latter to defined by Eurostat in cooperation with national statistics offices, and for a large quantity of data to be produced within these confines. 6.6 The European Commission's Urban Audit II, now underway, will produce data on the living conditions of people in 258 cities and conurbations.
It could also include working parties tasked with identifying and disseminating best practice in the areas addressed in this opinion. 7.7 The EESC welcomes the importance given to "competitiveness" and the link established between the recently framed regional policy and the Lisbon Strategy in the Third Report on economic and social cohesion, which has special significance for metropolitan areas.
It also suggests that this pilot programme should be carried out in partnership with DG Regional Policy, Eurostat, the national statistics offices and the metropolitan areas concerned. 7.10 The EESC hopes that the European institutions will agree with the broad thrust of this opinion.
Brussels, 1 July 2004.
The President of the European Economic and Social Committee Roger Briesch [1] In its opinion of 14 May 1998 on Towards an urban agenda in the European Union, the Committee of the Regions established the notion of a Functional Urban Region to describe a metropolis and its area of influence.
The Rhine-Ruhr region includes the urban agglomerations of Bonn, Cologne, Düsseldorf, Duisburg, Essen and Dortmund.
