The new Protocol grants fishing opportunities for 40 tuna seiners and 17 surface longliners.
A large portion of this amount (60%, or EUR 234 000 per year) is earmarked, under the new partnership approach fixed in the July 2004 Council guidelines on fisheries agreements, for defining and implementing the sectoral fisheries policy in the Comoros with a view to establishing responsible fishing.
Article 3 Member States whose vessels fish under this Protocol are obliged to notify the Commission of the quantities of each stock taken in the Comorian fishing zone in accordance with the arrangements laid down in Commission Regulation (EC) No 500/2001 of 14 March 2001[3].
This is on the understanding that the payment of the first annual financial contribution provided for in Article 2 of the Protocol is paid by 30 September 2005.
This is on the understanding that the payment of the first annual financial contribution provided for in Article 2 of the Protocol is paid by 30 September 2005.
On behalf of the Council of the European Union Protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros on fishing off the Comoros for the period from 1 January 2005 to 31 December 2010 Article 1 Period of application and fishing opportunities 1.
For a period of six years from 1 January 2005, the fishing opportunities granted under to Article 2 of the Agreement shall be as follows: - tuna seiners: 40 vessels. - surface longliners: 17 vessels. 2.
Article 2 Financial contribution – Methods of payment 1.
For the period referred to in Article 1, the financial contribution referred to in Article 6 of the Agreement shall be EUR 2 340 000. 2.
Paragraph 1 shall apply subject to Articles 4, 5 and 7 of this Protocol. 3.
The Community shall pay the financial contribution referred to in paragraph 1 at the rate of EUR 390 000 per year during the period of application of this Protocol. 4.
If the total quantity of catches by Community vessels exceeds 6 000 tonnes per year, the total amount of the annual financial contribution shall be increased by EUR 65 for each additional tonne caught.
However, the total annual amount paid by the Community shall not be more than twice the amount indicated in paragraph 3 (EUR 780 000).
Payment shall be made no later than 30 September 2005 for the first year and no later than the anniversary date of the Protocol for the following years. 6.
Subject to Article 6, the Comorian authorities shall have full discretion regarding the use to which this financial contribution is put. 7.
Article 3 Cooperation on responsible fishing – Annual scientific meeting 1.
In accordance with Article 5 of the Agreement, based on the recommendations and resolutions adopted within the Indian Ocean Tuna Commission (IOTC) and the best available scientific advice, the parties shall consult each other within the Joint Committee provided for in Article 7 of the Agreement and, where necessary and by mutual agreement, take measures to ensure the sustainable management of fisheries resources concerning the activities of Community vessels.
Article 4 Voluntary review of fishing opportunities 1.
In this case the financial contribution referred to in Article 2(1) shall be increased proportionately and pro rata temporis .
If the parties agree to adopt measures as referred to in Article 3 resulting in a reduction in the fishing opportunities provided for in Article 1, the financial contribution shall be reduced proportionally and pro rata temporis . 4.
Article 6 Suspension and review of the payment of the financial contribution on grounds of force majeure 1.
Where serious circumstances, other than natural phenomena, prevent fishing activities in Comorian waters, the European Community may suspend payment of the financial contribution provided for in Article 2(1), following consultations between the parties where possible, and provided that the Community has paid in full any amounts due at the time of suspension. 2.
The validity of the licences granted to Community vessels under Article 4 of the Agreement shall be extended by a period equal to the period during which fishing activities were suspended.
Article 7 Support for introducing responsible fishing in Comorian waters 1.
A share of 60% of the financial contribution referred to in Article 2(1) of this Protocol shall be put towards defining and implementing a sectoral fisheries policy in the Comoros with a view to introducing responsible fishing in its waters.
Where the annual evaluation of the progress made in implementing the multiannual sectoral programme so warrants, the parties shall hold consultations to agree rules for reallocating the financial contribution referred to in Article 2(1) of this Protocol with a view to bringing the actual amount of financial resources allocated to implementation of the programme into line with its results.
Article 8 Disputes – Suspension of application of the Protocol 1.
Any dispute between the parties over the interpretation of this Protocol or its application shall be the subject of consultations between the parties within the Joint Committee provided for in Article 7 of the Agreement, in a special meeting if necessary. 2.
Article 10 National law The activities of vessels operating in Comorian waters shall be governed by the applicable law in the Comoros, unless otherwise provided in the Agreement, this Protocol and the Annex and appendices hereto.
Article 11 Revision clause During the third year of application of this Protocol, its Annex and its appendices, the parties may review the provisions of the Protocol, the Annex and the appendices and, where necessary, make amendments.
Article 12 Repeal The Annex to the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros on fishing off the Comoros is hereby repealed and replaced by the Annex to this Protocol.
Article 13 Entry into force 1.
The relevant Community authorities shall present to the competent Comorian authorities an application for each vessel wishing to fish under the Agreement at least 20 days before the date of commencement of the period of validity requested. 5.
Applications shall be submitted to the competent Comorian authorities on a form drawn up in accordance with the specimen in Appendix I. 6.
The fee shall be paid into the account specified by the Comorian authorities. 8.
Licences for all vessels shall be issued to shipowners or their agents via the Delegation of the Commission of the European Communities in Mauritius within 15 days of receipt of all the documents referred to in point 6 by the competent Comorian authorities. 10.
The owner of the first vessel, or the agent, shall return the cancelled licence to the competent Comorian authorities via the European Commission Delegation. 14.
The Delegation of the European Commission in Mauritius shall be informed of the licence transfer. 15.
The fee shall be set at EUR 35 per tonne caught within Comorian waters. 3.
Licences shall be issued once the following standard amounts have been paid to the competent national authorities: - EUR 3 375 per year per tuna seiner, equivalent to the fees due for 96 tonnes of tuna caught per year; - EUR 2 065 per year per surface longliner, equivalent to the fees due for 59 tonnes of tuna caught per year. 4.
The final statement of the fees due for the fishing year shall be drawn up by the Commission of the European Communities by 31 July of the following year at the latest on the basis of the catch declarations made by each shipowner and confirmed by the scientific institutes responsible for verifying catch data in the Member States, such as the IRD ( Institut de Recherche pour le Développement ), the IEO ( Instituto Español de Oceanografía ) and the IPIMAR ( Instituto de Investigação das Pescas e do Mar) . 5.
These provisions may be reviewed by the Joint Committee referred to in Article 7 of the Agreement.
CHAPTER III – CATCH REPORTING ARRANGEMENTS 1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the duration of a voyage by a Community vessel shall be defined as follows: - either the period elapsing between entering and leaving Comorian waters; - or the period elapsing between entering Comorian waters and a transhipment; - or the period elapsing between entering Comorian waters and a landing in the Comoros; 2.
Electronic receipts shall be sent at once to the vessel by both addressees, with a copy to the other. 2.2 The original of the declarations sent electronically during the annual period of validity of the licence within the meaning of point 2 of Section 3 of Chapter I of this Annex shall be transmitted on a physical medium to Comorian Ministry responsible for fisheries within 45 days following the end of the last trip made during the said period.
The words “Outside Comorian EEZ” shall be entered in the abovementioned logbook in respect of periods during which the vessel is not in Comorian waters. 2.4 The forms shall be filled in legibly and signed by the master of the ship. 3.
CHAPTER IV – EMBARKING SEAMEN 1.
Each Community vessel shall take on board, at its own expense, at least one local seaman during a trip in Comorian waters. 2.
Shipowners shall endeavour to take on board additional local seamen. 3.
Shipowners shall be free to select the seamen they take on board their vessels from the names on a list submitted by the competent Comorian authorities. 4.
The shipowner or agent shall inform the competent Comorian authorities of the names of the local seamen taken on board the vessel concerned, mentioning their position in the crew. 5.
Local seamen’s employment contracts, a copy of which shall be given to the signatories, shall be drawn up between the shipowners’ agent(s) and the seamen and/or their trade unions or representatives in consultation with the competent Comorian authorities.
Where no local seamen are taken on board for reasons other than that referred to in the previous point, Community shipowners shall be obliged to pay, for each day of the fishing trip in Comorian waters, a flat-rate amount of USD 20 per day.
The payment of this amount will take place within the limits laid down in point I.2.6 of this Annex. 10.
CHAPTER V - TECHNICAL MEASURES 1.
CHAPTER VI – OBSERVERS 1.
Vessels authorised to fish in Comorian waters under the Agreement shall take on board observers appointed by the Comorian authorities on the terms set out below. 1.1 At the request of the Comorian Ministry responsible for fisheries, tuna vessels shall take on board an observer designated by the former to check catches made in Comorian waters. 1.2 The competent Comorian authorities shall draw up a list of vessels designated to take an observer on board and a list of the appointed observers.
The conditions under which observers are taken on board shall be agreed between shipowners or their agents and the Comorian authorities. 4.
Should a vessel with a Comorian observer on board leave Comorian waters, all measures must be taken to ensure the observer’s return to the Comoros as soon as possible at the expense of the shipowner. 7.
They shall carry out the following tasks: 8.1 observe the fishing activities of the vessels; 8.2 verify the position of vessels engaged in fishing operations; 8.3 perform biological sampling in the context of scientific programmes; 8.4 note the fishing gear used; 8.5 verify the catch data for Comorian waters recorded in the logbook; 8.6 verify the percentages of by-catches and estimate the quantity of discards of species of marketable fin-fish, crustaceans and cephalopods; 8.7 report fishing data by radio, including the quantity of catches and by-catches on board. 9.
The salary and social contributions of the observer shall be borne by the competent Comorian authorities. 15.
Shipowners shall contribute USD 20 per day per vessel to the costs of scientific observation.
CHAPTER VII - MONITORING 1.
Entering and leaving the zone: 3.1 Community vessels shall notify the Comorian authorities responsible for fisheries inspection at least three hours in advance of their intention to enter or leave Comorian waters. 3.2 When notifying leaving, vessels shall also communicate their position and the volume and species in catches kept on board.
This information should preferably be communicated by fax or, for vessels not equipped with a fax, by radio. 3.3 Vessels found to be fishing without having informed the competent Comorian authorities shall be regarded as vessels without a licence. 3.4 Vessels shall also be informed of the fax and telephone numbers and e-mail address when the fishing licence is issued. 4.
Control procedures 4.1 Masters of Community fishing vessels engaged in fishing activities in Comorian waters shall allow and facilitate boarding and the discharge of their duties by any Comorian official responsible for the inspection and control of fishing activities. 4.2.
Boarding 6.1 The competent Comorian authorities shall inform the European Commission and the flag State, within no more than 48 hours, of all boardings of and penalties imposed on Community vessels in Comorian waters. 6.2 The European Commission shall at the same time receive a brief report of the circumstances and reasons leading to the boarding. 7.
Statement of boarding 7.1 After the competent Comorian authorities have drawn up a statement, the master of the vessel shall sign it. 7.2 This signature shall not prejudice the rights of the master or any defence which he may make to the alleged infringement. 7.3 The master shall take the vessel to the port indicated by the Comorian authorities.
The shipowner or its agent shall be informed of the outcome of the meeting and of any measures resulting from the boarding. 9.
Masters of Community fishing vessels engaged in landing or transhipment operations in a Comorian port shall allow and facilitate the inspection of such operations by Comorian inspectors.
The Comorian authorities shall transmit this information in electronic form, expressed in decimal degrees, to the WGS-84 datum system. 2.
The parties shall exchange information on X.25 addresses and the specifications for electronic data transmission between their Control Centres in accordance with 4 to 6.
The position of vessels shall be determined with a margin of error of less than 500 metres and a confidence interval of 99%. 4.
The messages specified at 4 shall be transmitted electronically in X.25 format, without any further protocol.
They shall be communicated in real time in the format set out in Table II. 6.
Where the continuous satellite monitoring equipment installed on board a fishing vessel develops a technical fault or breaks down, the skipper of the vessel shall transmit the information specified at 4 to the Control Centre of the flag State in good time.
In such circumstances, it will be necessary to send a position report every 12 hours while the vessel is in a fishing zone of the Union of the Comoros.
The Control Centres of the flag States shall monitor the movements of their vessels in Comorian waters at two-hourly intervals.
Any dispute over the interpretation or application of these provisions shall be the subject of consultation between the parties within the Joint Committee referred to in Article 7 of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros on fishing off the Comoros. 13.
Optional data elements have to be inserted between the start and end of the record. [1] OJ C […] […], p. [2] OJ L 137, 2.6.1988, p. 19. [3] OJ L 73, 15.3.2001, p. 8.
