Proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Council Directive 76/769/EEC relating to restrictions on the marketing of certain measuring devices containing mercury {SEC(2006) 194} /* COM/2006/0069 final - COD 2006/0018 */ [pic] | COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES | Brussels, 21.2.2006 COM(2006) 69 final 2006/0018 (COD) Proposal for a DIRECTIVE OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL amending Council Directive 76/769/EEC relating to restrictions on the marketing of certain measuring devices containing mercury (presented by the Commission) {SEC(2006) 194} EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM CONTEXT OF THE PROPOSAL - Grounds for and objectives of the proposal On 28 January 2005 the Commission adopted a communication on the Community strategy concerning mercury[1] underpinned by an Extended Impact Assessment (ExIA)[2].
With the aim of reducing the demand for mercury for use in products and to speed up the substitution of mercury, the ExIA indicated that it would be appropriate to introduce a Community level marketing restriction on mercury-containing measuring and control equipment for consumer use and, with some exemptions, in the healthcare sector.
These non-electrical measuring devices are the subject of the present proposal (compare Action 7 of the Strategy).
The objective of the Directive is to introduce harmonised provisions with regard to mercury by imposing restrictions on measuring devices and thus, by preventing considerable amounts of mercury entering the waste stream, to contribute to a high level of protection of the environment and human health, whilst preserving the internal market, as required by Article 95 of the Treaty. - General context Mercury and its compounds are highly toxic to humans, ecosystems and wildlife.
The next most significant application in the EU is in dental amalgam, which is addressed by Community legislation on medical devices and on waste management.
RPA 2002[4] has suggested that the emission to air will be about 8 tons per year from a consumption of 33 tons of mercury per year in new measuring and control equipment plus 27 tons entering the waste stream from old equipment.
Results from a study by RPA from 2002 indicate that most measuring equipment for consumers (around two thirds) is now imported into the EU.
The Commission referred the question of a potential restriction on sphygmomanometers used in healthcare sector to the Member State experts on medical devices.
Opposition to the proposal was expressed by the European Medical Devices Association and by two manufacturers of barometers.
Further details on comments received are included in the accompanying Impact Assessment [SEC(2006) 194 of 21.2.2006]. - Impact assessment Measuring equipment is the largest mercury-using product group in EU not covered by Community legislation on mercury.
In compliance with Article 95 of the Treaty, the proposal is submitted to the European Parliament and Council under the co-decision procedure.
The European Economic and Social Committee is also consulted. - Subsidiarity principle All Member States that expressed an opinion have supported Community restrictions on mercury at a discussion in the Working Group for implementation of Directive 76/769EEC, as well as in responses to the Commission consultation document on mercury.
As the amount of mercury in existing household equipment is greater than the amount represented by sales of new equipment, the Commission intends to undertake a further separate study (reference Action 10 of the Strategy) to address this issue.
The Commission communication of 28 January 2005 on the Community strategy concerning mercury[10], which considered all uses of mercury, concluded that it would be appropriate to introduce Community-level marketing restrictions on certain non-electrical or electronic measuring and control equipment containing mercury, which is the main mercury product group not covered by Community action so far. 2.
There would be benefits for the environment, and in long term for human health, by preventing mercury from entering the waste stream, if limitations on the marketing of measuring devices containing mercury were introduced. 3.
This restriction should therefore not apply to devices that are already in use, or sold second hand. 5.
Article 3 This Directive shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union .
Article 4 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Directive as amended by Regulation (EC) No 1882/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 284, 31.10.2003, p. 1) [13] OJ L 131, 5.5.1998, p. 11-23.
