Furthermore, it must be stated that brokering activities, as mentioned in Article 15 of the Protocol, fall within the definition of dealer given by the Directive.
Article 5 of the Protocol provides that each State Party shall adopt such legislative and other measures as may be necessary to establish as criminal offences acts committed intentionally, in particular the illicit manufacturing of or trafficking in firearms.
Methodology used Meeting of an informal group of national experts on the application of Directive 91/477 on 23 May 2005, to examine the editorial consequences on the Directive of accession to the Protocol.
For the purposes of this Directive, “illicit trafficking” shall mean the acquisition, sale, delivery, movement or transfer of firearms, their parts and components and ammunition from or across the territory of one Member State to that of another Member State if any one of the Member States concerned does not authorise it in accordance with the terms of this Directive or if the firearms are not marked in accordance with Article 4(1). ” 2) Article 4 is replaced by the following: “1.
Each Member State shall ensure the maintenance of this information for not less than ten years.” 3) Article 16 is replaced by the following: “ 1.
The Member States shall notify the Commission of the provisions set out in paragraph 1 by no later than the date specified in Article 2 of this Directive and without delay of any subsequent amendments affecting them.” 4) Annex I is amended as follows: a) Point III (a) is replaced by the following: “a) have been rendered permanently unfit for use by deactivation ensuring that all essential parts of the firearm have been rendered permanently inoperable and incapable of removal, replacement or modification that would permit the firearm to be reactivated in any way”; b) The following paragraph is inserted after the first paragraph: “The Member States shall make arrangements for the deactivation measures set out under (a) to be verified by a competent authority, to ensure that the modifications made to a firearm render it permanently inoperable.
The Member States shall provide, in the context of this verification, for the issue of a certificate or record attesting to the deactivation of the firearm or a clearly visible mark to that effect stamped on the firearm”.
The methods of making such reference shall be laid down by the Member States. 2.
Article 3 This Directive shall enter into force on the day after its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union .
Article 4 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
