Proposal for a Council Decision on the signature and provisional application of the Multilateral Agreement between the Republic of Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Croatia, the European Community, the Republic of Iceland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the Kingdom of Norway, Serbia and Montenegro, Romania and the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo on the Establishment of a European Common Aviation Area (ECAA) /* COM/2006/0113 final */ [pic] | COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES | Brussels, 14.03.2006 COM(2006) 113 final 2006/0036 (CNS) Proposal for a COUNCIL DECISION on the signature and provisional application of the Multilateral Agreement between the Republic of Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Croatia, the European Community, the Republic of Iceland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the Kingdom of Norway, Serbia and Montenegro, Romania and the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo on the Establishment of a European Common Aviation Area (ECAA) Proposal for a COUNCIL DECISION on the conclusion of the Multilateral Agreement between the Republic of Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Croatia, the European Community, the Republic of Iceland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the Kingdom of Norway, Serbia and Montenegro, Romania and the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo on the Establishment of a European Common Aviation Area (ECAA) (presented by the Commission) EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM CONTEXT OF THE PROPOSAL | 110 | Grounds for and objectives of the proposal In October 1996, the Council granted the Commission a mandate to negotiate a multilateral agreement with the then candidate countries as well as Iceland and Norway.
The negotiations with the then candidate countries were discontinued in 2002, in view of impeding accession.
The extension of the mandate to the Balkan region in December 2004 was an important step forward and will help these parties to come closer to the EU in this sector of key economic importance. | 120 | General context The text of the multilateral agreement was accepted by Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, the European Community, Iceland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Norway, Serbia and Montenegro, Romania and the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo during the final round of negotiations on 20 December 2005.
This a major step forward where air transport will play a key role in putting impetus on the political and economic integration of Europe. | 130 | Existing provisions in the area of the proposal Air service agreements between the Member States and the ECAA Partners will be superseded by the Agreement. | 140 | Consistency with the other policies and objectives of the Union The ECAA was expressly designed as an open framework accessible for European countries which wish to fully integrate into the European aviation family and to fit into the Neighbourhood Policy of the Community. | CONSULTATION OF INTERESTED PARTIES AND IMPACT ASSESSMENT | Consultation of interested parties | 211 | Consultation methods, main sectors targeted and general profile of respondents Special Committee, Industry Consultative Forum.
Finally, the Annex to the agreement lists the Community aviation acts that will become applicable within the ECAA. | 310 | Legal basis EC Treaty Art. 80(2), 300(2), 300(4) | 329 | Subsidiarity principle The proposal falls under the exclusive competence of the Community.
The subsidiarity principle therefore does not apply. | Proportionality principle The proposal complies with the proportionality principle for the following reason(s). | 331 | The ECAA Agreement is a multilateral aviation agreement which will supersede to a large extent bilateral air service agreements between the Member States and the ECAA partners.
However, Member States will remain able to introduce safeguard measures where necessary. | 332 | The Agreement will be administered by a Joint Committee of the Parties.
One or two meeting per year is foreseen. | Choice of instruments | 341 | Proposed instruments: international agreement. | 342 | The Council is requested to adopt the Decisions on the signature and provisional application, and on the conclusion of the Agreement. | BUDGETARY IMPLICATION | 409 | The proposal has no implication for the Community budget. | ADDITIONAL INFORMATION | 510 | Simplification | 511 | The proposal provides for simplification of legislation. | 512 | The several bilateral air service agreements between Member States and the ECAA Partners will be to a large extent substituted by one single Community agreement. | 570 | Detailed explanation of the proposal Proposals (1) for a Council decision on the signature and provisional application of the Multilateral Agreement between the Republic of Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Croatia, the European Community, the Republic of Iceland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the Kingdom of Norway, Serbia and Montenegro, Romania and the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo on the Establishment of a European Common Aviation Area (ECAA) and (2) for a Council decision on the conclusion of the ECAA Agreement. | 1.
The Community shall be represented in the Joint Committee set up under Article 18 of the Agreement by the Commission assisted by representatives of the Member States. 2.
The Community shall be represented in the Joint Committee set up under Article 18 of the Agreement by the Commission assisted by representatives of the Member States. 2.
Done at Brussels, For the Council The President ANNEX Multilateral Agreement between The Republic of Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Croatia, the European Community, the Republic of Iceland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the Kingdom of Norway, Serbia and Montenegro, Romania and the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo [5] on the Establishment of a European Common Aviation Area The Contracting Parties RECOGNISING the integrated character of international civil aviation and desiring to create a European Common Aviation Area (ECAA) based on mutual market access to the air transport markets of the Contracting Parties and the freedom of establishment, with equal conditions of competition, and the respect of the same rules - including in the areas of safety, security, air traffic management, social harmonisation and environment; CONSIDERING that the rules concerning the ECAA shall apply on a multilateral basis within the ECAA and that specific rules, therefore, need to be defined in this respect; AGREEING that it is appropriate to base these rules of the ECAA on the relevant legislation in force within the European Community, as laid down in Annex I to this Agreement, without prejudice to those contained in the EC Treaty; RECOGNISING that full compliance with the ECAA rules entitle the Contracting Parties to reap the benefits from the ECAA, including market access; BEARING IN MIND that compliance with the ECAA rules, including full market access, cannot be achieved in one step, but rather by means of a transition facilitated by specific arrangements of limited duration; EMPHASISING that, subject to transitional arrangements where necessary, the rules concerning market access of air carriers should exclude limitations on frequencies, capacity, air routes, type of aircraft or similar restrictions under bilateral air transport agreements or arrangements, and that air carriers should not be required to enter into commercial agreements or similar arrangements as a condition to market access; EMPHASIZING that air carriers should be treated in a non-discriminatory manner regarding their access to air transport infrastructures especially where these infrastructures are limited; BEARING IN MIND that Association Agreements as a matter of principle provide that, with a view to ensuring a co-ordinated development and progressive liberalisation of transport between their Parties adapted to reciprocal commercial needs, the conditions of mutual market access in air transport shall be dealt with by special agreements; BEARING IN MIND the desire of each of the Associated Parties to make its laws on air transport and associated matters compatible with those of the European Community, including with regard to future legislative developments within the Community; RECOGNISING the importance of technical assistance in this perspective; RECOGNISING that the relations between the Community and Norway and Iceland must continue to be governed by the European Economic Area Agreement; DESIRING to allow for subsequent enlargement of the European Common Aviation Area; RECALLING the negotiations between the European Community and the Associated Parties with a view to concluding Agreements on Certain Aspects of Air Services which will bring bilateral air service agreements between the European Community Member States and the Associated Parties in line with European Community law; HAVE AGREED AS FOLLOWS: Objectives and principles Article 1 1.
Article 3 Acts referred to or contained in Annex I to this Agreement or in decisions of the Joint Committee shall be binding upon the Contracting Parties and be, or be made, part of their internal legal order as follows: (a) an act corresponding to an EC Regulation shall be made part of the internal legal order of the Contracting Parties; (b) an act corresponding to an EC Directive shall leave to the authorities of the Contracting Parties the choice of form and method of implementation.
Article 4 The Contracting Parties shall take all appropriate measures, whether general or particular, to ensure fulfilment of the obligations arising out of this Agreement and shall abstain from any measure which could jeopardise the attainment of the objectives of this Agreement.
Article 5 The provisions of this Agreement shall not affect the relations between the Contracting Parties of the EEA Agreement.
Non-discrimination Article 6 Within the scope of this Agreement, and without prejudice to any special provisions contained therein, any discrimination on grounds of nationality shall be prohibited.
Right of establishment Article 7 Within the scope and conditions of this Agreement and without prejudice to the provisions of the relevant acts specified in Annex I, there shall be no restrictions on the freedom of establishment of nationals of an EC Member State or an ECAA Partner in the territory of any of them.
The provisions of Articles 7 and 8 shall not apply to activities which, in the territory of any Contracting Party, are connected, even occasionally, with the exercise of official authority. 2.
The provisions of Articles 7 and 8 and measures taken in pursuance thereof shall not prejudice the applicability of provisions laid down by law, regulation or administrative action providing for special treatment for foreign nationals on grounds of public policy, public security or public health.
Aviation safety Article 11 1.
Where measures taken in application of paragraph 4 are not discontinued even though the basis for taking them has ceased to exist, any Contracting Party may refer the matter to the Joint Committee. 6.
Aviation security Article 12 1.
An Associated Party may be subjected to a European Commission inspection in accordance with the relevant European Community legislation as referred to in Annex I to this Agreement, and it may be required to participate in European Commission inspections in other Contracting Parties.
Air Traffic Management Article 13 1.
The European Community shall see to it that the Associated Parties are fully associated with the development of an Air Traffic Management (ATM) Master Plan and its implementation throughout the SESAR programme.
Enforcement Article 15 1.
Without prejudice to paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Article, each Contracting Party shall ensure that the rights which devolve from this Agreement, and in particular from the acts specified in Annex I, may be invoked before national courts. 2.
All questions concerning the legality of decisions taken by European Community institutions under this Agreement, in particular under the acts specified in Annex I, shall be of the exclusive competence of the Court of Justice of the European Communities.
Interpretation Article 16 1.
When a question of interpretation of this Agreement, of the provisions of the acts specified in Annex I or of acts adopted in pursuance thereof identical in substance to corresponding rules of the EC Treaty and to acts adopted in application of that Treaty, arises in a case pending before a court or tribunal of an ECAA Partner, the court or tribunal asks, if it considers this necessary to enable it to give a judgement and in accordance with Annex IV, the Court of Justice of the European Communities to decide on the question.
The depositary shall inform the other Contracting Parties. 3.
New legislation Article 17 1.
Joint Committee Article 18 1.
Dispute settlement Article 20 1.
If the Joint Committee does not take a decision on an issue which has been referred to it within four months, the Contracting Parties may take appropriate safeguard measures in accordance with Articles 21 and 22 of this Agreement for a period not exceeding six months.
A Contracting Party shall not take safeguard measures on a matter which has been referred to the Court of Justice of the European Communities in accordance with this Agreement, except in cases defined in Article 11(3) or in compliance with mechanisms provided for in individual acts specified in Annex I.
Safeguard measures Article 21 Without prejudice to Article 11(3) and the safety and security assessments mentioned in the Protocols to this Agreement, safeguard measures shall be restricted with regard to their scope and duration to what is strictly necessary in order to remedy the situation.
A Contracting Party or an EC Member State which is considering taking safeguard measures shall notify the other Contracting Parties and the EC Member States through the Joint Committee and shall provide all relevant information. 2.
Without prejudice to Article 11(3), the Contracting Party or the EC Member State concerned may not take safeguard measures until one month has elapsed after the date of notification under paragraph 1, unless the consultation procedure under paragraph 2 has been concluded before the expiration of the stated time limit. 4.
The Contracting Party or the EC Member State concerned shall, without delay, notify the measures taken to the Joint Committee and shall provide all relevant information.
Disclosure of information Article 23 The representatives, delegates and experts of the Contracting Parties, as well as officials and other servants acting under this Agreement shall be required, even after their duties have ceased, not to disclose information of the kind covered by the obligation of professional confidentiality, in particular information about undertakings, their business relations or their cost components.
Third countries and international organisations Article 24 1.
The Contracting Parties shall consult with each other in the framework of the Joint Committee at the request of any Contracting Party, in accordance with the procedures laid out in Articles 25 and 26. (a) on air transport questions dealt with in international organisations; and (b) on the various aspects of possible developments in relations between Contracting Parties and third countries in air transport, and on the functioning of the significant elements of bilateral or multilateral agreements concluded in this field. 2.
Article 26 The main aims of the consultations provided for in Article 24(1)(b) shall be to examine the relevant issues and to consider any approach which might be appropriate.
Transitional arrangements Article 27 1.
Notwithstanding paragraph 1, during the transitional periods referred to in Article 27, the provisions concerning ownership, traffic rights, capacity, frequencies, type or change of aircraft, code-sharing and pricing of a bilateral agreement or arrangement in force between an Associated Party and the European Community, an EC Member State, Norway or Iceland or between two Associated Parties shall apply between the Parties thereto if such bilateral agreement and/or arrangement is more flexible, in terms of freedom for the air carriers concerned, than the provisions of the applicable Protocol with respect to the Associated Party concerned. 3.
Entry into force, review, termination and other provisions Article 29 (Entry into force) 1.
Notwithstanding paragraphs 1 and 2, two or more Contracting Parties, which must include the European Community and at least one Associated Party, may decide to apply provisionally this Agreement among themselves from the date of signature by notifying the depository which shall notify the other Contracting Parties.
Article 31(Termination) 1.
This Agreement shall cease to be in force or be suspended with respect to an Associated Party if the corresponding Association Agreement ceases to be in force or is suspended.
Article 33 (Gibraltar airport) 1.
Article 34 The Annexes and Protocols to this Agreement shall form an integral part thereof.
No. 96/67 Council Directive 96/67 of 15 October 1996 on access to the ground handling market at Community airports Applicable provisions: Articles 1 to 25 and Annex As regards the application of Article 10, the term “Member States” shall read “EC Member States”.
Air Traffic Management No. 549/2004 Regulation (EC) No 549/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 10 March 2004 laying down the framework for the creation of the single European sky (the framework Regulation) Applicable provisions: Articles 1 to 4, 6, and 9 to 14 No. 550/2004 Regulation (EC) No 550/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 10 March 2004 on the provision of air navigation services in the single European sky (the service provision Regulation) Applicable provisions: Articles 1 to 19, Annexes I and II No. 551/2004 Regulation (EC) No 551/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 10 March 2004 on the organisation and use of the airspace in the single European sky (the airspace Regulation) Applicable provisions: Articles 1 to 11 No. 552/2004 Regulation (EC) No 552/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 10 March 2004 on the interoperability of the European Air Traffic Management network (the interoperability Regulation) Applicable provisions: Articles 1 to 12, Annexes I to V C.
No. 94/56/EC Council Directive 94/56 of 21 November 1994 establishing the fundamental principles governing the investigations of civil aviation accidents and incidents Applicable provisions: Articles 1 to 12 As regards the applications of Articles 9 and 12, the term “the Commission” shall read “all other ECAA Contracting Parties”.
Aviation Security No. 2320/2002 Regulation (EC) No 2320/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2002 establishing common rules in the field of civil aviation security as amended by: - Regulation (EC) No 849/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 amending Regulation (EC) No 2320/2002 establishing common rules in the field of civil aviation security Applicable provisions: Articles 1 to 12 and Annex No. 622/2003 Commission Regulation (EC) No 622/2003 of 4 April 2003 laying down measures for the implementation of the common basic standards on aviation security as amended by: - Commission Regulation (EC) No 68/2004 of 15 January 2004 amending Commission Regulation (EC) No 622/2003 laying down measures for the implementation of the common basic standards on aviation security - Commission Regulation (EC) No 781/2005 amending Commission Regulation (EC) No 622/2003 laying down measures for the implementation of the common basic standards on aviation security - Commission Regulation (EC) No 857/2005 of 6 June 2005 amending Commission Regulation (EC) No 622/2003 laying down measures for the implementation of the common basic standards on aviation security Applicable provisions: Articles 1 to 5 and Annex No. 1217/2003 Commission Regulation (EC) No 1217/2003 of 4 July 2003 laying down common specifications for national civil aviation security quality control programmes Applicable provisions: Articles 1 to 11, Annexes I and II No. 1486/2003 Commission Regulation (EC) No 1486/2003 of 22 August 2003 laying down procedures for conducting Commission inspections in the field of civil aviation security Applicable provisions: Articles 1 to 16 No. 1138/2004 Commission Regulation (EC) No 1138/2004 of 21 June 2004 establishing a common definition of critical parts of security restricted areas at airports Applicable provisions: Articles 1 to 8 E.
Consumer protection No. 90/314 Council Directive 90/314 of 13 June 1990 on package travel, package holidays and package tours Applicable provisions: Articles 1 to 10 No. 92/59 Council Directive 92/59 of 29 June 1992 on general product safety Applicable provisions: Articles 1 to 19 No. 93/13 Council Directive 93/13 of 5 April 1993 on unfair terms in consumer contracts Applicable provisions: Articles 1 to 10 and Annex As regards the application of Article 10, the term “the Commission” shall read “all other ECAA Contracting Parties”.
No. 95/46 Directive 95/46 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 October 1995 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data Applicable provisions: Articles 1 to 34 No. 2027/97 Council Regulation 2027/97 of 9 October 1997 on air carrier liability in the event of accidents as amended by: - Regulation (EC) No 889/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 May 2002 amending Council Regulation (EC) No 2027/97 on air carrier liability in the event of accidents Applicable provisions: Articles 1 to 8 No. 261/2004 Regulation (EC) No 261/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 February 2004 establishing common rules on compensation and assistance to passengers in the event of denied boarding and of cancellation or long delay of flights, and repealing Regulation (EEC) No 295/91 Applicable provisions: Articles 1 to 17 H.
The specific adaptations necessary for individual acts are set out in Annex I. 1.
ANNEX III Rules on competition and state aid referred to in Article 14 Article 1 - State monopolies An Associated Party shall progressively adjust any State monopolies of a commercial character so as to ensure that, by the end of the second period referred to in the Protocol to this Agreement which contains the transitional measures with regard to this Associated Party, no discrimination regarding the conditions under which goods are procured and marketed exists between nationals of the Contracting Parties.
The Associated Party shall also define, in agreement with the European Commission, the modalities for the monitoring of the implementation of approximation of legislation and law enforcement actions to be taken.
Any practices contrary to this Article shall be assessed on the basis of criteria arising from the application of the competition rules applicable in the European Community, in particular from Articles 81, 82, 86 and 87 of the Treaty establishing the European Community and interpretative instruments adopted by the European Community institutions. 3.
Each Associated Party shall ensure that an operationally independent public body is entrusted with the powers necessary for the full application of paragraph 1 (i) and (ii) of this article, regarding private and public undertakings and undertakings to which special rights have been granted. 4.
The authority referred to in paragraph 4 and the European Commission shall then jointly evaluate the eligibility of the regions of the Associated Party as well as the maximum aid intensities in relation thereto in order to draw up the regional aid map on the basis of the relevant European Community guidelines. 8.
If one of the Contracting Parties considers that a particular practice is incompatible with the terms of paragraph 1 of this Article, it may take appropriate measures after consultation within the Joint Committee or after thirty working days following referral for such consultation. 9.
General principles relating to Article 16 of the Agreement 1.
Further to the preliminary ruling, the court or tribunal of the Contracting Party shall apply the interpretation ruled by the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 2.
When, in accordance with the second sentence of Article 16(2), a Contracting Party adopts a decision on the extent and modalities of referrals to the Court of Justice of the European Communities, that decision shall specify that either: (a) any court or tribunal of that Contracting Party against whose decisions there is no judicial remedy under national law shall request the Court of Justice of the European Communities to give a preliminary ruling on a question raised in a case pending before it and concerning the validity or interpretation of an act referred to in Article 16(2) if that court or tribunal considers that a decision on the question is necessary to enable it to give a judgement, or (b) any court or tribunal of that Contracting Party may request the Court of Justice of the European Communities to give a preliminary ruling on a question raised before it and concerning the validity or interpretation of an act referred to in Article 16(2) if that court or tribunal considers that a decision on the question is necessary to enable it to give a judgement, or (c) a combination of both. 2.
Referrals according to Article 20(3) of the Agreement Disputes submitted to the Court of Justice of the European Communities according to Article 20(3) of the Agreement shall be treated by the latter in the same manner as those submitted to it in accordance with Article 239 of the EC Treaty. 4.
Protocol I Transitional arrangements between the European Community and the Republic of Albania Article 1 Transitional periods (1) The first transitional period shall extend from the entry into force of this Agreement until all conditions set out in Article 2(1) have been fulfilled by the Republic of Albania, hereinafter referred to as “Albania”, as verified by an assessment carried out by the European Community. (2) The second transitional period shall extend from the end of the first transitional period until all conditions set out in Article 2(2) have been fulfilled by Albania as verified by an assessment carried out by the European Community.
apply ECAC Document 30 and shall endeavour to implement all the aviation security legislation as provided in Annex I to this Agreement; iii.
separate the air traffic service provider and the national regulatory body, establish a national supervisory body for air traffic services, start the reorganisation of its airspace into a functional block or blocks, and apply flexible use of airspace; v.
have made sufficient progress in implementing the rules on state aid and competition included in an agreement referred to in Article 14(1) of this Agreement or in Annex III to this Agreement, whichever is applicable. (2) By the end of the second transitional period Albania shall apply this Agreement including all the legislation set out in Annex I to this Agreement.
Article 3 Transitional arrangements (1) Notwithstanding Article 1(1) of this Agreement, (a) During the first transitional period: i.
Community air carriers shall be permitted to exercise unlimited traffic rights between points in Albania and other Associated Parties and shall be permitted to change, at any point, from one aircraft to one other aircraft provided that the flight is a part of a service that serves a point in an EC Member State; iii.
air carriers licensed by Albania shall be permitted to exercise unlimited traffic rights between points in different EC Member States and shall be permitted to change, at any point, from one aircraft to one other aircraft provided that the flight is a part of a service that serves a point in Albania. (2) For the purpose of this Article, “Community air carrier” shall mean an air carrier licensed by an EC Member State, Norway or Iceland. (3) Articles 7 and 8 of this Agreement shall not apply until the end of the second transitional period, without prejudice to the obligation of Albania and of the Community to grant operating licences in accordance with the acts specified in Annex I to this Agreement, respectively, carriers which are majority owned or effectively controlled by the EC Member States or their nationals and carriers which are majority owned or effectively controlled by Albania or its nationals from the end of the first transitional period.
Article 4 Aviation safety (1) At the start of the first transitional period Albania shall be involved as observer in the work of the European Aviation Safety Agency. (2) At the end of the second transitional period the Joint Committee established under Art. 18 of this Agreement shall determine the precise status and conditions for the participation of Albania in the European Aviation Safety Agency. (3) Until the end of the second transitional period, if safety deficiencies are identified the European Community may require that the permission for an air carrier licensed by Albania to operate on air routes to, from or within the European Community be made subject to a specific safety assessment.
Article 5 Aviation security (1) At the start of the second transitional period the confidential part of the security legislation as provided in Annex I to this Agreement shall be made available to the appropriate authority of Albania. (2) Until the end of the second transitional period, if security deficiencies are identified the European Community may require that the permission for an air carrier licensed by Albania to operate on air routes to, from or within the European Community be made subject to a specific security assessment.
Article 2 Conditions relating to transition (1) By the end of the first transitional period Bosnia and Herzegovina shall i.
have made sufficient progress in implementing the rules on state aid and competition included in an agreement referred to in Article 14(1) of this Agreement or in Annex III to this Agreement, whichever is applicable. (2) By the end of the second transitional period Bosnia and Herzegovina shall i.
Article 3 Transitional arrangements (1) Notwithstanding Article 1(1) of this Agreement, (a) During the first transitional period: i.
Community air carriers and air carriers licensed by Bosnia and Herzegovina shall be permitted to exercise unlimited traffic rights between any point in Bosnia and Herzegovina and any point in an EC Member State; ii.
Community air carriers shall be permitted to exercise unlimited traffic rights between points in Bosnia and Herzegovina and other Associated Parties and shall be permitted to change, at any point, from one aircraft to one other aircraft provided that the flight is a part of a service that serves a point in an EC Member State; iii.
air carriers licensed by Bosnia and Herzegovina shall be permitted to exercise unlimited traffic rights between points in different EC Member States and shall be permitted to change, at any point, from one aircraft to one other aircraft provided that the flight is a part of a service that serves a point in Bosnia and Herzegovina. (2) For the purpose of this Article, “Community air carrier” shall mean an air carrier licensed by an EC Member State, Norway or Iceland. (3) Articles 7 and 8 of this Agreement shall not apply until the end of the second transitional period, without prejudice to the obligation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and of the Community to grant operating licences in accordance with the acts specified in Annex I to this Agreement, respectively, carriers which are majority owned or effectively controlled by the EC Member States or their nationals and carriers which are majority owned or effectively controlled by Bosnia and Herzegovina or its nationals from the end of the first transitional period.
Article 4 Aviation safety (1) At the start of the first transitional period Bosnia and Herzegovina shall be involved as observer in the work of the European Aviation Safety Agency. (2) At the end of the second transitional period the Joint Committee established under Art. 18 of this Agreement shall determine the precise status and conditions for the participation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the European Aviation Safety Agency. (3) Until the end of the second transitional period, if safety deficiencies are identified the European Community may require that the permission for an air carrier licensed by Bosnia and Herzegovina to operate on air routes to, from or within the European Community be made subject to a specific safety assessment.
Article 5 Aviation security (1) At the start of the second transitional period the confidential part of the security legislation as provided in Annex I to this Agreement shall be made available to the appropriate authority of Bosnia and Herzegovina. (2) Until the end of the second transitional period, if security deficiencies are identified the European Community may require that the permission for an air carrier licensed by Bosnia and Herzegovina to operate on air routes to, from or within the European Community be made subject to a specific security assessment.
Protocol III Transitional arrangements between the European Community and the Republic of Bulgaria Article 1 Transitional period (1) The transitional period shall extend from the entry into force of this Agreement until all conditions set out in Article 2 have been fulfilled by the Republic of Bulgaria, hereinafter referred to as “Bulgaria”, as verified by an assessment carried out by the European Community, and not later than Bulgaria’s accession to the European Community. (2) References to the “second transitional period” in this Agreement or in its Annexes shall mean in the case of Bulgaria the transitional period under paragraph 1 of this Article.
Article 3 Transitional arrangements (1) Notwithstanding Article 1(1) of this Agreement, (a) During the transitional period: i.
Community air carriers and air carriers licensed by Bulgaria shall be permitted to exercise unlimited traffic rights between any point in Bulgaria and any point in an EC Member State; ii.
Community air carriers shall be permitted to exercise unlimited traffic rights between points in Bulgaria and other Associated Parties and shall be permitted to change, at any point, from one aircraft to one other aircraft provided that the flight is a part of a service that serves a point in an EC Member State; iii.
air carriers licensed by Bulgaria shall be permitted to exercise unlimited traffic rights between points in different EC Member States and shall be permitted to change, at any point, from one aircraft to one other aircraft provided that the flight is a part of a service that serves a point in Bulgaria. (2) For the purpose of this Article, “Community air carrier” shall mean an air carrier licensed by an EC Member State, Norway or Iceland. (3) Articles 7 and 8 of this Agreement shall not apply until the end of the transitional period, without prejudice to the obligation of Bulgaria and of the Community to grant operating licences in accordance with the acts specified in Annex I to this Agreement, respectively, carriers which are majority owned or effectively controlled by the EC Member States or their nationals and carriers which are majority owned or effectively controlled by Bulgaria or its nationals from the end of the first transitional period.
Article 4 Aviation safety (1) At the end of the transitional period the Joint Committee established under Art. 18 of this Agreement shall determine the precise status and conditions for the participation of Bulgaria in the European Aviation Safety Agency. (2) Until the end of the transitional period, if safety deficiencies are identified the European Community may require that the permission for an air carrier licensed by Bulgaria to operate on air routes to, from or within the European Community be made subject to a specific safety assessment.
Article 5 Aviation security Until the end of the transitional period, if security deficiencies are identified the European Community may require that the permission for an air carrier licensed by Bulgaria to operate on air routes to, from or within the European Community be made subject to a specific security assessment.
Article 2 Conditions relating to transition (1) By the end of the first transitional period Croatia shall i.
have made sufficient progress in implementing the rules on state aid and competition included in an agreement referred to in Article 14(1) of this Agreement or in Annex III to this Agreement, whichever is applicable. (2) By the end of the second transitional period Croatia shall apply this Agreement including all the legislation set out in Annex I to this Agreement.
Article 3 Transitional arrangements (1) Notwithstanding Article 1(1) of this Agreement, (a) During the first and the second transitional periods Community air carriers and air carriers licensed by Croatia shall be permitted to exercise unlimited traffic rights between any point in Croatia and any point in an EC Member State. (b) During the second transitional period: i.
Community air carriers and air carriers licensed by Croatia shall be permitted to exercise the traffic rights provided for in paragraph (1) (a); ii.
Community air carriers shall be permitted to exercise unlimited traffic rights between points in Croatia and other Associated Parties and shall be permitted to change, at any point, from one aircraft to one other aircraft provided that the flight is a part of a service that serves a point in an EC Member State; iii.
air carriers licensed by Croatia shall be permitted to exercise unlimited traffic rights between points in different EC Member States and shall be permitted to change, at any point, from one aircraft to one other aircraft provided that the flight is a part of a service that serves a point in Croatia. (c) Until the end of the second transitional period Community air carriers shall not be majority owned or effectively controlled by Croatia or its nationals and air carriers licensed by Croatia shall not be majority owned or effectively controlled by EC Member States or their nationals. (2) For the purpose of this Article, “Community air carrier” shall mean an air carrier licensed by an EC Member State, Norway or Iceland. (3) Articles 7 and 8 of this Agreement shall not apply until the end of the second transitional period, without prejudice to the obligation of Croatia and of the Community to grant operating licences in accordance with the acts specified in Annex I to this Agreement, respectively, carriers which are majority owned or effectively controlled by the EC Member States or their nationals and carriers which are majority owned or effectively controlled by Croatia or its nationals from the end of the first transitional period.
Article 4 Aviation safety (1) At the start of the first transitional period Croatia shall be involved as observer in the work of the European Aviation Safety Agency. (2) At the end of the second transitional period the Joint Committee established under Art. 18 of this Agreement shall determine the precise status and conditions for the participation of Croatia in the European Aviation Safety Agency. (3) Until the end of the second transitional period, if safety deficiencies are identified the European Community may require that the permission for an air carrier licensed by Croatia to operate on air routes to, from or within the European Community be made subject to a specific safety assessment.
Article 5 Aviation security (1) At the start of the second transitional period the confidential part of the security legislation as provided in Annex I to this Agreement shall be made available to the appropriate authority of Croatia. (2) Until the end of the second transitional period, if security deficiencies are identified the European Community may require that the permission for an air carrier licensed by Croatia to operate on air routes to, from or within the European Community be made subject to a specific security assessment.
Article 6 Statement by Croatia on the entry into force of the ECAA Agreement Croatia declares its intention to consider the appropriate time for the entry into force of the ECAA Agreement for Croatia due to the Croatian request for short term (until the end of the Phase I) and gradual transitional arrangements on market access in terms of capacity.
Protocol V Transitional arrangements between the European Community and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia Article 1 Transitional periods (1) The first transitional period shall extend from the entry into force of this Agreement until all conditions set out in Article 2(1) have been fulfilled by the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia as verified by an assessment carried out by the European Community. (2) The second transitional period shall extend from the end of the first transitional period until all conditions set out in Article 2(2) have been fulfilled by the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia as verified by an assessment carried out by the European Community.
have made sufficient progress in implementing the rules on state aid and competition included in an agreement referred to in Article 14(1) of this Agreement or in Annex III to this Agreement, whichever is applicable. (2) By the end of the second transitional period the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia shall apply this Agreement including all the legislation set out in Annex I to this Agreement.
Article 3 Transitional arrangements (1) Notwithstanding Article 1(1) of this Agreement, (a) During the first transitional period: i.
Community air carriers and air carriers licensed by the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia shall be permitted to exercise unlimited traffic rights between any point in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and any point in an EC Member State; ii.
Community air carriers shall be permitted to exercise unlimited traffic rights between points in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and other Associated Parties and shall be permitted to change, at any point, from one aircraft to one other aircraft provided that the flight is a part of a service that serves a point in an EC Member State; iii.
air carriers licensed by the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia shall be permitted to exercise unlimited traffic rights between points in different EC Member States and shall be permitted to change, at any point, from one aircraft to one other aircraft provided that the flight is a part of a service that serves a point in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. (2) For the purpose of this Article, “Community air carrier” shall mean an air carrier licensed by an EC Member State, Norway or Iceland. (3) Articles 7 and 8 of this Agreement shall not apply until the end of the second transitional period, without prejudice to the obligation of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and of the Community to grant operating licences in accordance with the acts specified in Annex I to this Agreement, respectively, carriers which are majority owned or effectively controlled by the EC Member States or their nationals and carriers which are majority owned or effectively controlled by the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia or its nationals from the end of the first transitional period.
Article 4 Application of certain legislation by the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia Notwithstanding Art. 2 of this Protocol, upon entry into force of this Agreement the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia shall i.
Article 5 Aviation safety (1) At the start of the first transitional period the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia shall be involved as observer in the work of the European Aviation Safety Agency. (2) At the end of the second transitional period the Joint Committee established under Art. 18 of this Agreement shall determine the precise status and conditions for the participation of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia in the European Aviation Safety Agency. (3) Until the end of the second transitional period, if safety deficiencies are identified the European Community may require that the permission for an air carrier licensed by the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia to operate on air routes to, from or within the European Community be made subject to a specific safety assessment.
Article 6 Aviation security (1) At the start of the second transitional period the confidential part of the security legislation as provided in Annex I to this Agreement shall be made available to the appropriate authority of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. (2) Until the end of the second transitional period, if security deficiencies are identified the European Community may require that the permission for an air carrier licensed by the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia to operate on air routes to, from or within the European Community be made subject to a specific security assessment.
Pro tocol VI Transitional arrangements between the European Community and Serbia and Montenegro Article 1 Transitional periods (1) The first transitional period shall extend from the entry into force of this Agreement until all conditions set out in Article 2(1) have been fulfilled by Serbia and Montenegro as verified by an assessment carried out by the relevant authority of the European Community. (2) The second transitional period shall extend from the end of the first transitional period until all conditions set out in Article 2(2) have been fulfilled by Serbia and Montenegro as verified by an assessment carried out by the relevant authority of the European Community.
Article 2 Conditions relating to transition (1) By the end of the first transitional period Serbia and Montenegro shall i.
separate the air traffic service provider and the regulatory body for Serbia and Montenegro, establish a supervisory body for Serbia and Montenegro for air traffic services, start the reorganisation of the airspace of Serbia and Montenegro into a functional block or blocks, and apply flexible use of airspace; v.
have made sufficient progress in implementing the rules on state aid and competition included in an agreement referred to in Article 14(1) of this Agreement or in Annex III to this Agreement, whichever is applicable. (2) By the end of the second transitional period Serbia and Montenegro shall apply this Agreement including all the legislation set out in Annex I to this Agreement.
Article 3 Transitional arrangements (1) Notwithstanding Article 1(1) of this Agreement, (a) During the first transitional period: i.
Community air carriers and air carriers licensed by Serbia and Montenegro shall be permitted to exercise unlimited traffic rights between any point in Serbia and Montenegro and any point in an EC Member State; ii.
Community air carriers shall be permitted to exercise unlimited traffic rights between points in Serbia and Montenegro and other Associated Parties and shall be permitted to change, at any point, from one aircraft to one other aircraft provided that the flight is a part of a service that serves a point in an EC Member State; iii.
air carriers licensed by Serbia and Montenegro shall be permitted to exercise unlimited traffic rights between points in different EC Member States and shall be permitted to change, at any point, from one aircraft to one other aircraft provided that the flight is a part of a service that serves a point in Serbia and Montenegro. (2) For the purpose of this Article, “Community air carrier” shall mean an air carrier licensed by an EC Member State, Norway or Iceland. (3) Articles 7 and 8 of this Agreement shall not apply until the end of the second transitional period, without prejudice to the obligation of Serbia and Montenegro and of the Community to grant operating licences in accordance with the acts specified in Annex I to this Agreement, respectively, carriers which are majority owned or effectively controlled by the EC Member States or their nationals and carriers which are majority owned or effectively controlled by Serbia and Montenegro or its nationals from the end of the first transitional period.
Article 4 Aviation safety (1) At the start of the first transitional period Serbia and Montenegro shall be involved as observer in the work of the European Aviation Safety Agency. (2) At the end of the second transitional period the Joint Committee established under Art. 18 of this Agreement shall determine the precise status and conditions for the participation of Serbia and Montenegro in the European Aviation Safety Agency. (3) Until the end of the second transitional period, if safety deficiencies are identified the European Community may require that the permission for an air carrier licensed by Serbia and Montenegro to operate on air routes to, from or within the European Community be made subject to a specific safety assessment.
Article 5 Aviation security (1) At the start of the second transitional period the confidential part of the security legislation as provided in Annex I to this Agreement shall be made available to the appropriate authority of Serbia and Montenegro. (2) Until the end of the second transitional period, if security deficiencies are identified the European Community may require that the permission for an air carrier licensed by Serbia and Montenegro to operate on air routes to, from or within the European Community be made subject to a specific security assessment.
Protocol VII Transitional arrangements between the European Community and Romania Article 1 Transitional period (1) The transitional period shall extend from the entry into force of this Agreement until all conditions set out in Article 2 have been fulfilled by Romania as verified by an assessment carried out by the European Community. (2) References to the “second transitional period” in this Agreement or in its Annexes shall mean in the case of Romania the transitional period under paragraph 1 of this Article.
Article 2 Conditions relating to transition By the end of the transitional period Romania shall apply this Agreement including all the legislation set out in Annex I to this Agreement.
Article 3 Transitional arrangements (1) Notwithstanding Article 1(1) of this Agreement, (a) During the transitional period: i.
Community air carriers and air carriers licensed by Romania shall be permitted to exercise unlimited traffic rights between any point in Romania and any point in an EC Member State; ii.
Article 4 Aviation safety (1) At the end of the transitional period the Joint Committee established under Art. 18 of this Agreement shall determine the precise status and conditions for the participation of Romania in the European Aviation Safety Agency. (2) Until the end of the transitional period, if safety deficiencies are identified the European Community may require that the permission for an air carrier licensed by Romania to operate on air routes to, from or within the European Community be made subject to a specific safety assessment.
Article 5 Aviation security Until the end of the transitional period, if security deficiencies are identified the European Community may require that the permission for an air carrier licensed by Romania to operate on air routes to, from or within the European Community be made subject to a specific security assessment.
Article 6 Entry into force The ECAA Agreement shall enter into force with regard to Romania after its ratification, in conformity with the Romanian legal provisions.
Protocol VIII Transitional arrangements between the European Community and the United Nations Interim Administration in Kosovo Article 1 UNMIK’s competences The provisions of this Protocol are without prejudice to the competences of the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo, hereinafter referred to as “UNMIK”, as derived from UN Security Council Resolution 1244 of 10 June 1999.
separate the air traffic service provider and the regulatory body, establish or designate a supervisory body for air traffic services; v.
have made sufficient progress in implementing the rules on state aid and competition included in an agreement referred to in Article 14(1) of this Agreement or in Annex III to this Agreement, whichever is applicable. (2) By the end of the second transitional period UNMIK shall apply this Agreement including all the legislation set out in Annex I to this Agreement.
Article 4 Transitional arrangements (1) Notwithstanding Article 1(1) of this Agreement, (a) During the first transitional period: i.
Community air carriers and air carriers licensed by UNMIK shall be permitted to exercise unlimited traffic rights between any point in Kosovo and any point in an EC Member State; ii.
Community air carriers shall not be majority owned or effectively controlled by UNMIK or residents of Kosovo and air carriers licensed by UNMIK shall not be majority owned or effectively controlled by EC Member States or their nationals. (b) During the second transitional period: i.
Article 5 International conventions and agreements Where the legislation set out in Annex I to this Agreement provides for the obligation to become party to international conventions or agreements, the special status of UNMIK under international law shall be taken into consideration.
Article 6 Aviation safety (1) At the start of the first transitional period UNMIK shall be involved as observer in the work of the European Aviation Safety Agency. (2) At the end of the second transitional period the Joint Committee established under Art. 18 of this Agreement shall determine the precise status and conditions for the participation of UNMIK in the European Aviation Safety Agency. (3) Until the end of the second transitional period, if safety deficiencies are identified the European Community may require that the permission for an air carrier licensed by UNMIK to operate on air routes to, from or within the European Community be made subject to a specific safety assessment.
Article 7 Aviation security (1) At the start of the second transitional period the confidential part of the security legislation as provided in Annex I to this Agreement shall be made available to the appropriate authority of UNMIK. (2) Until the end of the second transitional period, if security deficiencies are identified the European Community may require that the permission for an air carrier licensed by UNMIK to operate on air routes to, from or within the European Community be made subject to a specific security assessment.
Such assessment shall be made by the European Community expeditiously in order to avoid any undue delay in the exercise of traffic rights. [1] OJ C , , p. . [2] OJ C , , p. . [3] OJ C , , p. . [4] OJ C , , p. . [5] Pursuant to UN Security Council Resolution 1244 of 10 June 1999.
