Communication from the Commission to the Council - Reinforcing the management of the European Union's Southern Maritime Borders /* COM/2006/0733 final */ [pic] | COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES | Brussels, 30.11.2006 COM(2006) 733 final COMMUNICATION FROM THE COMMISSION TO THE COUNCIL Reinforcing the management of the European Union's Southern Maritime Borders COMMUNICATION FROM THE COMMISSION TO THE COUNCIL Reinforcing the management of the European Union's Southern Maritime Borders 1.
The goals of the 2002 Communication have now broadly been reached with the entry into force of the Schengen Borders Code, the establishment of the European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders of the Member States of the European Union (FRONTEX) and the forthcoming adoption of the External Borders Fund which will enter into force in 2007. 2.
The Hague Programme of 2004 builds upon the Tampere Programme, mapping the development of a "second generation" of measures designed to strengthen management of the external borders in general.
In its Conclusions of 5 October 2006 [1], the Council invites the Commission "with the cooperation of FRONTEX and taking into account the responsibilities of Member States, the feasibility study on the establishment of a Mediterranean Coastal Patrol Network (MEDSEA) and experience gained in joint operations, to present a Communication to the Council before the end of 2006 identifying those further operational measures that can be taken in the short-term to equip the Union with the necessary capacity to help assist in preventing and managing migration crisis situations". 4.
Accordingly, and in the context of the assessment of the ILO networks currently before the Council, the Commission proposes to amend Regulation (EC) No 377/2004 on the creation of the Immigration Liaison Officers' Network in order to give FRONTEX access to the information gathered by the liaison officers on a systematic basis and allow for the participation of FRONTEX, alongside the Commission, in meetings organised in the framework of the Immigration Liaison Officers' Network.
FRONTEX, together with Member States, should take the necessary steps to activate Article 7 of Regulation (EC) No 2007/2004 establishing FRONTEX.
However, the system established under Article 7 is based solely on voluntary contributions by Member States and thus depends on their goodwill and the availability of the equipment in question.
The Council, in its conclusions of 5 and 6 October 2006 on reinforcing the southern external maritime borders, invites FRONTEX to activate Article 7 urgently and furthermore encourages Member States to contribute actively to the creation of an extensive central pool of assets and equipment available in particular for operational needs at the maritime borders by summer 2007.
The framework for cooperation between FRONTEX and the above-mentioned international organisations could be defined in a working arrangement as provided for by Article 13 of Regulation (EC) No 2007/2004 establishing FRONTEX.
Hence, the work of ILO's (see paragraph 13 above) is crucial in providing up-to-date information on migration routes to Member States, the Commission and FRONTEX.
The Commission believes that this patrol network would have a real added value, making it possible for Member States to coordinate their patrol schedules, pool their civilian and military assets and exchange strategic and tactical information in real time.
This model was in fact already proposed in the feasibility study prepared by CIVIPOL Conseil for the Commission in 2003 on the control of the maritime borders of the European Union[5] and it could be applied mutatis mutandis , in particular taking into account the enlargement of the Union in 2004 and in 2007 and the establishment of FRONTEX.
To improve further the surveillance of the southern maritime external borders a common European Surveillance System for Borders (EUROSUR) should be created following, in particular, the recommendations of the "BORTEC" feasibility study to be presented by FRONTEX before the end of 2006.
More specifically, it would be necessary to analyse the circumstances under which a State may be obliged to assume responsibility for the examination of an asylum claim as a result of the application of international refugee law, in particular when engaged in joint operations or in operations taking place within the territorial waters of another State or in the high sea.
This Fund foresees, subject to the final decision by the budgetary authority, a total of 1.82 billion € for the period 2007-2013, of which about 170 M € will be available in 2007 (to be confirmed by final adoption of the 2007 budget).
While it is clear that payments under the Fund as concerns shared management will only be made in the beginning of 2008 at the earliest, the cost of actions undertaken already in 2007 can be eligible. 40.
The strategic guidelines of this Fund will encourage Member States to devise their national programming in support of the implementation of the common integrated border management strategy and to develop a more long-term approach towards capacity building at national level in the interest of all.
Against the background of the preliminary draft budget for 2007, the European Parliament approved a preparatory action in 2007 for "Migration management / solidarity in action" aiming at assisting Member States in coping with reception of irregular migrants arriving by sea.
In the framework of the external relations policy of the European Union, FRONTEX should therefore, on the basis of its risk analyses, provide technical assistance in identifying the third countries most relevant for cooperation on management of southern maritime external borders and itself conduct negotiations with these countries, at technical level, on working arrangements as provided for by Article 14 of Regulation (EC) No 2007/2004 establishing the Agency. 49.
