Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on roaming on public mobile networks within the Community and amending Directive 2002/21/EC on a common regulatory framework for electronic communications networks and services {SEC(2006) 925} {SEC(2006) 926} /* COM/2006/0382 final - COD 2005/0133 */ [pic] | COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES | Brussels, 12.7.2006 COM(2006) 382 final 2006/0133 (COD) Proposal for a REGULATION OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL on roaming on public mobile networks within the Community and amending Directive 2002/21/EC on a common regulatory framework for electronic communications networks and services (presented by the Commission) {SEC(2006) 925}{SEC(2006) 926} EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM 1.
However, the high prices that mobile users pay for this service has been identified as a persistent problem by consumer organisations, regulators and policy makers across the Community.
The mechanism selected to achieve this objective in a proportionate manner is the application to terrestrial mobile operators within the Community of safeguard maximum price limits for the provision of roaming services for voice calls between Member States at retail and wholesale level. - General context The problem of high roaming charges for mobile customers travelling in Europe was first identified in mid-1999 when the Commission decided to carry out a sector inquiry covering national and international roaming services.
This led to the Commission opening proceedings alleging the past infringement of Article 82 of the Treaty by certain mobile operators in the United Kingdom and Germany.
The European Regulators' Group (ERG) noted in May 2005 that retail charges were very high without clear justification; that this appeared to result both from high wholesale charges levied by the foreign host network operator and also, in many cases, from high retail mark-ups charged by the customer's own network operator; that reductions in wholesale charges were often not passed through to the retail customer; and that consumers often lacked clear information on the charges for roaming.
The European Parliament, in a resolution on 1 December 2005 on European electronic communications regulation and markets 2004, welcomed the Commission's initiative on transparency in the international roaming sector and called on the Commission to develop new initiatives in order to reduce the high costs of cross-border mobile telephone traffic.
The existing regulatory framework for electronic communications provides a mechanism for the imposition of ex ante regulatory obligations on undertakings within the electronic communications sector, on the basis of the definition of relevant markets susceptible to ex ante regulation and a process of market analysis by the regulatory authorities.
The wholesale national market for international roaming on public mobile networks has been identified as such a relevant market.
The existing Community regulatory framework (Article 19 of the Framework Directive, 2002/21/EC) provides for the Commission to issue Recommendations on the harmonised application of its provisions.
In accordance with the ‘European Home Market Approach’ and in order to ensure that charges payable by roaming customers for receiving calls while roaming abroad in the Community more closely reflect the underlying costs incurred by their home mobile provider in providing this service, the proposal also provides that those charges should not exceed a maximum price limit.
Finally, the proposal amends the provisions of the existing regulatory framework, notably the Framework Directive (2002/21/EC), to recognise the specific status of the measures contained in the proposal within that framework and to ensure that the general provisions of the framework continue to apply to roaming services regulated by the proposal (subject to its specific requirements). - Legal basis Article 95 EC - Subsidiarity principle The subsidiarity principle applies insofar as the proposal does not fall under the exclusive competence of the Community.
Since it provides for a simple and transparent price limit for regulated roaming calls, the proposed action will not impose significant administrative burdens on undertakings or other interested parties.
This means that if at that time market developments show that the Regulation is no longer required, the Commission will consider proposing its repeal, in line with the principles of better regulation. - European Economic Area The proposed act concerns an EEA matter and should therefore extend to the European Economic Area. - Detailed explanation of the proposal Article 1 sets out the aim and scope of the Regulation: introduction of the European Home Market Approach for users of public mobile telephone networks for international roaming voice services when travelling within the Community.
The European Home Market Approach aims to achieve a high level of protection for these users by setting a maximum limit on the wholesale and retail prices that may be levied by mobile operators for international roaming services provided within the Community.
Article 3 sets the maximum limits for the prices levied by mobile network operators for the provision of regulated roaming calls at wholesale level.
The maximum wholesale charge applicable to regulated roaming calls made to the roaming customer's home country or a third country within the Community is three times the average mobile termination rate while the maximum wholesale charge for the provision of regulated roaming calls to a destination within the visited country is twice the average mobile termination rate.
Article 4 sets the maximum limits on the prices that can be charged at retail level by the home mobile provider for a regulated roaming call.
Article 5 provides that the retail price limits in Articles 4 will take effect after six months.
Article 6 sets the maximum limits on the retail price that the home mobile provider can charge its roaming customer for the receipt of calls while roaming within the Community.
This is 130% of the average mobile termination rate published pursuant to Article 10 (excluding VAT).
Article 7 provides for improved transparency for retail roaming charges, by obliging the home provider to give its roaming customers information on these charges on request and free of charge, either by means of a Short Message Service (SMS) or orally.
Article 8 sets out the powers and obligations of national regulatory authorities to supervise and enforce compliance with the Regulation within their territory.
Article 9 requires Member States to lay down rules on the penalties which should apply to breaches of the Regulation.
Article 10 sets out the rules governing the determination and publication of the average mobile termination rate used for calculating the maximum price limits in Articles 3 and 6.
Article 11 introduces the necessary amendment to the Framework Directive in order to ensure the coherent application of the directives making up the regulatory framework and the Regulation itself.
Article 12 sets the time-limit for review of the Regulation.
Article 13 provides that the Commission shall be assisted by the Communications Committee set up under the Framework Directive.
Article 14 requires Member States to notify to the Commission the identity of their national regulatory authorities charged with carrying out tasks under the Regulation.
Article 15 provides for measures needed to implement the Regulation to be adopted pursuant to the Committee procedure referred to in Article 13.
Article 16 provides that the Regulation will enter into force on the day following the date of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union . 2006/0133 (COD) Proposal for a REGULATION OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL on roaming on public mobile networks within the Community and amending Directive 2002/21/EC on a common regulatory framework for electronic communications networks and services (Text with EEA relevance) THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular Article 95 thereof, Having regard to the proposal from the Commission[2], Having regard to the opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee[3], Acting in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 251 of the Treaty[4], Whereas: (1) The high level of the prices payable by users of public mobile telephone networks when using their mobile telephones when travelling abroad within the Community is a matter of concern for national regulatory authorities.
The elements constituting this process include the definition of relevant markets in accordance with the Commission’s Recommendation of 11 February 2003 on relevant product and service markets within the electronic communications sector[12] (the Recommendation), the analysis of the defined markets in accordance with the Commission’s Guidelines[13], the designation of operators with significant market power and the imposition of ex ante obligations on operators so designated. (4) The Recommendation identifies as a relevant market susceptible to ex ante regulation the wholesale national market for international roaming on public mobile networks[14].
It is appropriate to allow a period of six months for this purpose, to permit market players to make the necessary adaptations. (22) Similarly, a maximum limit should be applied to the prices that roaming customers may be required to pay for the receipt of voice telephony calls while roaming abroad within the Community in order to ensure that those prices more closely reflect the cost of the provision of such a service, and to give customers greater certainty as to the charges they will incur when answering their mobile phone abroad. (23) This Regulation should not prejudice innovative offerings to consumers which are more favourable than the maximum per minute charges contained in this Regulation. (24) The pricing requirements in this Regulation should apply regardless of whether roaming customers have a pre-paid or a post-paid contract with their home provider, to ensure that all users of mobile voice telephony may benefit from its provisions. (25) The average mobile termination rate for the purposes of this Regulation should be based on the information provided by the national regulatory authorities and published by the Commission on a periodical basis.
Transparency also requires that providers furnish information on roaming charges when subscriptions are taken out and that they also give their customers periodic updates on roaming charges as well as in the event of substantial changes. (27) The national regulatory authorities which are responsible for carrying out tasks under the 2002 regulatory framework for electronic communications should have the powers needed to supervise and enforce the obligations in this Regulation within their territory.
They should ensure that up-to-date information on the application of this Regulation is made available to mobile users. (28) Member States should provide for a system of sanctions to be applied in the event of breach of the provisions of this Regulation. (29) The measures necessary for the implementation of this Regulation should be adopted in accordance with Council Decision 1999/468/EC of 28 June 1999 laying down the procedures for the exercise of implementing powers conferred on the Commission[17]. (30) Since the objectives of the proposed action, to establish a common mechanism to ensure that users of public mobile telephone networks when travelling within the Community do not pay excessive prices for international roaming services when making or receiving voice calls, thereby achieving a high level of consumer protection while safeguarding competition between mobile operators, cannot be achieved by the Member States in a secure, harmonised and timely manner and can therefore be better achieved at Community level, the Community may adopt measures, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity as set out in Article 5 of the Treaty.
Article 2 Definitions 1.
For the purposes of this Regulation, the definitions set out in Article 2 of Directive 2002/21/EC, Article 2 of Directive 2002/19/EC and Article 2 of Directive 2002/22/EC shall apply. 2.
Article 3 Wholesale charges for the making of regulated roaming calls The total wholesale charge that the operator of a visited network may levy from the operator of the roaming customer’s home network for the provision of a regulated roaming call, including inter alia origination, transit and termination, shall not exceed the applicable amount per minute determined in accordance with Annex I.
Article 4 Retail charges for the making of regulated roaming calls Subject to Article 5, the total retail charge, excluding VAT, which a home provider may levy from its roaming customer for the provision of a regulated roaming call may not exceed 130% of the applicable maximum wholesale charge for that call determined in accordance with Annex I.
Article 5 Timing of application of maximum retail charge limits for regulated roaming calls The obligations in Article 4 shall take effect six months after the entry into force of this Regulation.
Article 6 Retail charges for the receipt of calls while roaming in the Community The total retail charge, excluding VAT, which a home provider may levy from its roaming customer in respect of the receipt by that customer of voice telephony calls while roaming on a visited network shall not exceed, on a per minute basis, 130% of the average mobile termination rate published pursuant to Article 10(3).
Article 7 Transparency of retail charges 1.
The customer may choose to make such a request by means of a mobile voice call or by sending an SMS (Short Message Service), in either case to a number designated for this purpose by the home provider, and may choose to receive the information either during the course of that call or by SMS (in the latter case without undue delay). 3.
Article 8 Supervision and enforcement 1.
National regulatory authorities may intervene on their own initiative in order to ensure compliance with this Regulation. 4.
National regulatory authorities shall monitor developments in wholesale and retail prices for the provision to roaming customers of voice and data communications services, including the Short Message Service (SMS) and the Multimedia Messaging Service (MMS), in particular in the outermost regions of the Community, and shall communicate the results of such monitoring to the Commission on request. 7.
Disputes between undertakings providing electronic communications networks and services concerning issues included in this Regulation shall be subject to the national dispute resolution procedures established in conformity with Articles 20 and 21 of Directive 2002/21/EC. 8.
The out-of-court dispute resolution procedures established in conformity with Article 34 of Directive 2002/22/EC shall also be available to deal with unresolved disputes involving consumers and (if applicable under national law) other end-users concerning issues included in this Regulation.
Article 9 Penalties The Member States shall lay down the rules on penalties applicable to infringements of the provisions of this Regulation and shall take all measures necessary to ensure that they are implemented.
Article 10 Average mobile termination rate 1.
The average mobile termination rate shall be determined in accordance with the criteria and methodology set out in Annex II, on the basis of information communicated by the national regulatory authorities in accordance with paragraphs 2 and 4. 2.
The Commission shall publish in the Official Journal of the European Union , on a regular basis, the average mobile termination rate determined in accordance with paragraphs 1, 2 and 4. 4.
Undertakings subject to the requirements of this Regulation shall ensure that any changes to their charges which are required to ensure compliance with Articles 3, 4 and 6 take effect within two months from each publication pursuant to the preceding paragraphs of this Article. 6.
Amendments necessary to adapt Annex II to technical or market developments shall be adopted by the Commission, acting in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 13(3).
Article 11 Amendment to Directive 2002/21/EC In Article 1 of Directive 2002/21/EC the following paragraph 5 is added: “5.
This Directive and the Specific Directives are without prejudice to any specific measure adopted for the regulation of international roaming charges for mobile voice telephony calls.” Article 12 Review procedure The Commission shall review the functioning of this Regulation and report to the European Parliament and the Council no later than two years after the date of its entry into force.
Article 13 Committee 1.
The Commission shall be assisted by the Communications Committee, set up by Article 22 of Directive 2002/21/EC. 2.
Article 14 Notification requirements Member States shall notify to the Commission within two months of the entry into force of this Regulation the identity of the national regulatory authorities responsible for carrying out tasks under this Regulation.
Article 15 Implementation The measures necessary for the implementation of this Regulation shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 13(2).
Article 16 Entry into force This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following the date of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union .
Done at Brussels, For the European Parliament For the Council The President The President ANNEX I Wholesale charges for the making of regulated roaming calls referred to in Article 3 The total wholesale charges that the operator of a visited network may levy from the operator of the roaming customer’s home network for the making of a regulated roaming call originating on that visited network shall not exceed, on a per-minute basis, an amount equal to the average mobile termination rate published pursuant to Article 10(3) multiplied: a) by a factor of two, in the case of a regulated roaming call to a number assigned to a public telephone network in the Member State in which the visited network is located; or b) by a factor of three, in the case of a regulated roaming call to a number assigned to a public telephone network in a Member State other than that in which the visited network is located.
The results are available onhttp://ec.europa.eu/information_society/activities/roaming/internal_market/consultation/index_en.htm [2] OJ C , , p. . [3] OJ C , , p. . [4] OJ C , , p. . [5] See Commission Decision 2002/627/EC of 29 July 2002 establishing the European Regulators Group for Electronic Communications Networks and Services (OJ L 200, 30.7.2002, p. 38), as amended by Commission Decision 2004/641/EC of 14 September 2004 (OJ L 293, 16.9.2004, p. 30). [6] OJ L 108 of 24.4.2002, p 33. [7] OJ L 108 of 24.4.2002, p. 7. [8] OJ L 108 of 24.4.2002, p. 21. [9] OJ L 108 of 24.4.2002, p. 51. [10] OJ L 201 of 31.7.2002, p. 37. [11] See in particular Articles 14 to 16 of the Framework Directive, Articles 7 and 8 of the Access Directive and Articles 16 and 17 of the Universal Service Directive. [12] Commission Recommendation of 11 February 2003 on relevant product and service markets within the electronic communications sector susceptible to ex ante regulation in accordance with Directive 2002/21/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on a common regulatory framework for electronic communication networks and services - C(2003) 497 (OJ L 114, 8.5.2003, p. 45). [13] Commission guidelines on market analysis and the assessment of significant market power under the Community regulatory framework for electronic communications networks and services (OJ C 165, 11.7.2002, p. 6). [14] Market 17 in the Annex. [15] EP Resolution 2005/2052(INI). [16] Communication to the Spring European Council, Working together for growth and jobs, A new start for the Lisbon Strategy - COM(2005) 24, 2.2.2005 - and European Council Presidency Conclusions 22-23 March 2005. [17] OJ L 184, 17.7.1999, p. 23.
