Believes that a strong competition policy and the effective enforcement of the rules thereof are extremely important in improving competitiveness; urges the Commission, therefore, to ensure that a properly resourced and strong competition policy — one which is independent of the Member States — is maintained in coming years; welcomes the impetus of the Commission in promoting competitive practices in a number of sectors, while initiating a process aimed at increasing private enforcement of EU competition rules, by improving litigation for damages resulting from infringement; 14.
Requests the Commission to put forward before July 2005 its framework legislative proposal on waste, which aims at improving coherence in waste management, especially regarding ECJ case-law; 23.
Welcomes the Commission's commitment to the ongoing reform of the CAP; requests the Commission to ensure that the implementation of CAP reforms in 2005 does not lead to distortions of competition among farmers in the Member States and that any renationalisation of the CAP is firmly avoided; 26.
Calls on the Commission to work urgently with Member States to increase the labour-market participation of those over 55 years of age — through positive incentive measures, raising retirement ages and/or reviewing early-retirement arrangements — so as to safeguard the sustainability of pension systems; considers that it is in society's interests to draw upon the experience and contribution of older generations for the overall common good; 33.
Believes that, in parallel, stronger emphasis should be placed on creating a "child-friendly" environment, whether by means of tax incentives, better child-care facilities or a more flexible organisation of working time, thus enabling a better combination of professional and family life; Social policy 34.
Welcomes the Commission's policy objectives in the transport sector, with the strong emphasis on improved safety in maritime, air and road transport in general, and on security in respect of Trans-European Transport Networks in particular; in particular, the third package on maritime security should improve this aspect; 49.
Does not consider it appropriate to combine in one strategy both consumer and health policies, when the current consumer policy strategy and public health programme expire (in 2007 and 2008 respectively); firmly believes that, whilst these two policies should follow the same political guidelines, both need their own strategies and budgets; A stronger Europe in a safer world Enlargement 57.
Believes that simplifying legislation and enhancing the quality of its drafting remain of paramount importance; expresses concern at the unambitious list of areas of legislation earmarked for the planned simplification process and, consequently, calls on the Commission to identify and accelerate its programmes for simplifying, recasting and consolidating existing legislation — first envisaged in the 2003 action plan for better regulation — in order to make EU legislation more coherent and to reduce the overall volume of texts in selected policy areas; 82.
Stresses that it is of paramount importance to make Europe work better and to bring it closer to the citizens, by creating a more open, responsive and democratic Union, and therefore emphasises the need for a properly coordinated campaign by the European Council, Parliament and the Commission to ensure ratification of the Constitution and its entry into force on 1 November 2006; Petitions 83.
Requests the Commission, as already envisaged in 2003, to submit a formal proposal for a legal basis for the so-called 'Info-points/Carrefours', as well as for the new generation of conventions between the Commission and Member States and of programmes for grants after 2006; 90.
Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Commission, the Council, and the governments and parliaments of the Member States. [1] Texts Adopted, P6_TA(2004)0109. [2] OJ C 321, 31.12.2003, p. 1. --------------------------------------------------
