The Implementation Package provides essential background to the Commission’s 2005 Spring Report and the Mid-Term Review of the Lisbon Strategy. | Shift of focus towards policy measures | Compared to the preliminary assessment made last year[3], this Implementation Report has stepped up the assessment to identify clear progress made, or lack thereof.
The recovery developed further in 2004 supported by a favourable global economic environment.
Behind this there are, however, sizeable differences across Member States: the lacklustre performance of some Member States contrasts with the sound positions of ‘close to balance or in surplus’ reached or maintained by a number of other Member States in 2003 or 2004 (Belgium, Denmark, Estonia, Spain, Ireland, Luxembourg, Finland and Sweden). | In 2004, around one third of the Member States had deficits exceeding 3% of GDP | Nominal budget balances deteriorated in more than half of the Member States: a surplus turned negative in four Member States and the deficits worsened in ten more and markedly so in Greece and Poland.
Since the turn of the century hourly labour productivity growth has slowed down further in a number of Member States, going into negative territory in 2003 in Italy, the Netherlands and Portugal.
Further steps have been taken in 2004 towards the liberalisation of network industries, but effective competition is not always ensured as the still very high market share of incumbents seems to indicate.
Related to this development, which implies more responsibility for national competition authorities, Member States (notably Ireland, the Netherlands, Spain and the United Kingdom) made a welcome step by providing additional resources. | Progress made in financial market integration | In 2004, significant steps were made in providing the appropriate regulatory framework for more efficient capital markets and further financial integration in the EU.
Some Member States (Sweden and Finland) have high R&amp;D-ratios, whereas others have experienced declining ratios since 1999 (Greece, Ireland and the Netherlands).
Little progress has been made in increasing the share of 22 years old that have completed upper secondary level education.
In general, gross public investment (as a percentage of GDP), which was on a downward path since the 1970s, stabilised at around 2½ per cent of GDP between 2000 and 2004.
Analysis shows that, despite recent efforts to ensure the long-term sustainability of public finances, it remains an important issue in the majority of Member States, notably in Belgium, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Germany, Greece, Spain, France, Hungary, Italy, Malta, Poland, Portugal, Slovenia and Slovakia. | Social sustainability hampered by labour market situation | Progress in improving social sustainability continues to be limited in 2004.
It is thus important to strengthen the mutually reinforcing effect of policies promoting economic growth, employment and economic and social cohesion. | Better progress made in taking action to improve environmental sustainability | Compared to 2003, better progress was made in 2004 in taking action to improve environmental sustainability.
The lack of significant progress on budgetary consolidation by any of the seven Member States that had not achieved a position of ‘close-to-balance or in surplus’ in 2003 is, also in this respect, a particular source of concern.
The decision in 2004 to create a stable two-year presidency for the Eurogroup as of 2005 should benefit its functioning and will result in continuity in the euro area attendance at international meetings.
This can be viewed as an important first step in strengthening the voice of the euro area on the world stage. | Overall, progress in implementing the 2003-2005 BEPGs leaves much to be desired | Summing up, the overall conclusion from this second Implementation Report on the 2003-2005 BEPGs is that progress continues to be mixed.
Although some progress was made in improving fiscal sustainability with inter alia pension reforms in some Member States, debt ratios remain high and long-term sustainability is not yet secured in 14 of the Member States in 2004.
