Policy coherence for development 3 2.
Turning EU policy commitments into action 6 3.1.
Doha Development Agenda (DDA) 6 3.1.2.
Bilateral and unilateral measures 7 3.2.
Security 9 3.3.1.
European Security Strategy 9 3.3.2.
Governance, state fragility, conflict prevention 10 3.3.3.
Agriculture 11 3.4.1.
Food Aid 12 3.4.3.
Sanitary and Phyto-sanitary measures 12 3.5.
Fisheries 13 3.6.
Transport 17 3.11.
Non-development policies should respect development policy objectives and development cooperation should, where possible, also contribute to reaching the objectives of other EU policies.
The Commission invites Council, European Parliament and the European Social and Economic Committee to confirm its acceptance of these commitments, as a joint engagement of the EU and its Member States towards improved coherence, and a substantial EU contribution towards the MDGs.
EU Coherence for Development Commitments Trade: The EU is strongly committed to ensuring a development-friendly and sustainable outcome of the Doha Development Agenda and EU-ACP Economic Partnership Agreements (EPAs).
The EU will enhance its policies in support of good and effective governance and the prevention of state fragility and conflict, including by strengthening its response to difficult partnerships/failing states.
Research and innovation: The EU will promote the integration of development objectives, where appropriate, into its RTD and Innovation policies, and will continue to assist developing countries in enhancing their domestic capacities in this area.
By recognizing that these policy objectives should be considered as Coherence for Development Commitments in the context of the MDGs, the EU reconfirms and strengthens its engagement to effectively deliver on these orientations, against the background of the given MDG timeframe between now and 2015.
Doha Development Agenda (DDA) The EU is strongly committed to ensuring a development-friendly and sustainable outcome of the Doha Development Agenda.
The EU has made a substantial concession to getting the DDA back on track by committing to phase out its export subsidies as long as all forms of export subsidisation are eliminated. - The DDA end-result should provide for improved market access for agricultural and industrial goods as well as services , which will provide benefits for developing countries, as well as stronger multilateral rules. - New commitments and rules should provide the necessary flexibility ( Special and Differential Treatment (SDT)) for developing countries, notably the LDCs and the small and vulnerable economies. - In the area of industrial tariffs, the EU commits itself to full elimination of all remaining tariff escalation, high tariffs and tariff peaks , as well as a sectoral liberalization by all WTO members on products of interest for developing countries, bringing duties on textiles, clothing and footwear as close as possible to zero - With reference to the EU ‘Everything but Arms’ initiative, the EU will pursue its efforts to persuade other developed countries to follow up on their commitments towards LDCs, made at the LDC III Conference (Brussels 2001) to grant duty and quota free treatment to all LDC exports , as well as to encourage the more advanced developing countries to increase South-South market access on a multilateral basis. - The EU also acknowledges the need to take into account in the negotiations the legitimate concerns faced by developing countries in relation to trade adjustment, including those resulting from the erosion of preferences .
The EU will assess through its Sustainable Impact Assessment (SIA) the differentiated impact of trade liberalisation amongst developing countries. - The EU will work for an outcome in the services (GATS) negotiations that provide meaningful new market access opportunities in sectors and modes of supply important for developing countries, including GATS Mode 4 (dealing with foreign service supply through the temporary movement of natural persons).
The outcome of the negotiations should respect the right of developing countries to safeguard public services , and should promote access to technology and opportunities for investments in key infrastructure services such as telecommunications, transport, energy and water-related services, as well as in financial services. - The EU is determined to give full effect to the Doha Declaration on TRIPS and Public Health and the related WTO Decision of 30 August 2003, and will support developing countries in the implementation efforts as part of the strategy to facilitate access to affordable medicines . - The EU is ready to support the introduction of a system that would oblige patent applicants to disclose the source of genetic resources and associated traditional knowledge . - The EU will support further strengthening of WTO rules, particularly in the areas of anti-dumping and fishery subsidies which are of particular interest to developing countries. - The EU is committed to ensuring the development of customs and trade facilitation measures in developing countries through the DDA agenda.
EU Initiatives for Sustainable Development - The EU Action Plan for Forest Law Enforcement, Governance and Trade (FLEGT) promotes a licensing scheme to ensure that all timber exports to Europe are lawful, and encourages reforms in forest harvesting countries. - The EU Water Initiative and ACP-EU Water Facility (funded under the European Development Fund (EDF) with € 500 million) are major contributions towards the achievement of the MDG and WSSD targets for water and sanitation, within the context of an integrated approach to water resources management at the basin level.
The European Security Strategy adopted by the European Council in December 2003 argues for an integrated approach to conflict prevention and crisis management, as well as to other security threats.
The EU should hence strengthen the mechanisms designed to control transfers of Arms. - The EU will contribute effectively to the non-proliferation of weapons , focusing specifically on Small Arms and Light Weapons (SALW), Anti-personnel Landmines (APL) and Explosive Remnants of War (ERW).
Common Agricultural Policy The reforms of the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) agreed in 2003 and 2004, make a strong contribution to reducing trade-distorting effects of EU support to agriculture and enhancing positive social and environmental effects.
The Commission is also committed to establish a monitoring system of the policy reform in the cotton sector, with a view to analysing its impact on production and trade, with a report in 2009. - In the context of the DDA commitment on parallel elimination of all forms of export subsidies, the EC envisages eliminating export refunds on agricultural and food products. 3.4.2.
Against this background the EU will undertake the following actions: - In accordance with the 2002 reform of the Common Fisheries Policy (CFP), the EC will progressively transform the previous fisheries access agreements into Fisheries Partnership Agreements (FPAs)[10].
All fisheries access agreements that involve the payment of a financial contribution by the Community to a third country will be replaced by partnership agreements by 2008 at the latest. - Fisheries Partnership Agreements will continue to be established with a view to effectively promoting sustainable exploitation of the fisheries resources in the partner countries.
Improved stock data will be used as a basis for future FPA negotiations. - Should the Council of Ministers decide so, the current bilateral approach of FPA may be complemented, where appropriate, by a regional approach . - The EC will, in the context of WTO, aim at agreeing a balanced multilateral fisheries subsidies regime. 3.6.
In this context; - The EU will collaborate with developing countries in order for them (a) to promote science and technology, and the role of small and medium enterprises in this endeavour; (b) to improve their research, technological and higher education infrastructure; (c) to boost their human resource S%amp%T capacities through various international mobility schemes while avoiding “brain-drain”; and (d) to earmark resources to higher education for youngsters, especially girls. - The EU will continue building the European Research Area and enhance its international dimension to serve development priorities.
The EU will enhance its support to sustainable multi-modal transport systems that underpin regional integration strategies and regional trade, building on the principles set out in the European Transport Policy for 2010 and the Almaty Programme of Action of August 2003.
The EU will consider reinforcing and broadening these experiences, with the aim to ensuring that policy coherence for development becomes the business not just of development policy makers but also of policy makers in non-development policy areas.
