Opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee on the Proposal for a Council Regulation laying down general provisions on the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund and the Cohesion Fund (COM(2004) 492 final %mdash% 2004/0163 (AVC)) Opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee on the Proposal for a Council Regulation laying down general provisions on the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund and the Cohesion Fund (COM(2004) 492 final — 2004/0163 (AVC)) (2005/C 255/16) On 21 December 2004 the Council of the European Union decided to consult the European Economic and Social Committee, under Article 262 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, on the abovementioned communication.
At its 416th plenary session on 6 and 7 April 2005 (meeting of 6 April), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 126 votes to three with seven abstentions: 1.
Preamble 1.1 The European Economic and Social Committee has often and emphatically spoken out in favour of a European policy for "economic, social and territorial cohesion", as the Constitutional Treaty puts it.
An exploratory opinion on the implementation of partnership [3] was requested by the Commission; in 2003, in the course of preparations for the informal Council of Ministers meeting on 20 October 2003 in Rome of ministers responsible for cohesion policy, an EESC opinion [4] was also requested by the Council presidency.
The challenge to cohesion policy posed by enlargement 2.1 Building a powerful new entity 2.1.1 Following the accession of 10 new countries, the enlarged European Union is the third most populous political entity in the world: with 455 million inhabitants its population is considerably smaller than that of China or India, but larger than that of the United States (300 million) and Russia (140 million).
With a GDP of EUR 10 billion, the EU has one-third of the world's wealth and controls one-fifth of world trade, and therefore has the potential to be a major player on the current global stage. 2.1.2 Although they are less developed than older Member States, the new countries can contribute an economic impetus, with average economic growth in 2003 of 3.6 % in the 10 accession countries compared to 0.4 % in the EU-15, a difference which is bound to have a profound and favourable impact on economic trends and growth in the European Union as a whole. 2.2 Facing new challenges 2.2.1 As in the case of any significant change, institutions, policies and budgets will inevitably have to be adapted to reflect the new dimensions of the European Union.
The two countries which are expected to join in 2007 (Romania and Bulgaria) are even further behind, with per capita incomes of less than 30 % of the Community average.
The European Union must therefore address the budgetary implications of this situation, not least in the debate on adoption of the financial perspective for the 2007-2013 period. 2.4.2 Changes to the funds will need to take these factors into account, so that the Commission has the resources to support a sustainable financial policy for the EU and Member States.
In this context, the ceiling of 4 % of GDP which limits total access to Community funds reflects the need for fairness and for economic efficiency.
Given that these deficiencies are even more pronounced in the new Member States, tackling this issue is especially important; - thanks to intervention in numerous European regions, Objective 2 has had the advantage of giving the European Union a higher profile and promoting quite close cooperation with economic and social actors, although that does vary from Member State to Member State.
The EU plays a key role in facilitating the sharing of best practice among the relevant actors. 2.6.2 Reforms of cohesion policy should aim to strike a better balance between investments in the requisite infrastructure and investments in human resources, which are currently under-supported and play a key role in enhancing the potential of underdeveloped regions. 2.6.3 Greater efficiency and higher standards are thus essential if the European public are to accept and support a cohesion policy that is more ambitious and more in tune with regional and local concerns. 2.7 Outline of the new cohesion policy 2.7.1 In this context, the Commission's proposal on cohesion policy should, on the one hand, address the need for territorial cohesion in an enlarged Europe with 25 Member States and, on the other, contribute to achieving the major European objectives of competitiveness in a knowledge-based economy, full employment and sustainable development. 3.
The draft regulation should be brought into line with the objectives of radical reform 3.1 The new objectives of the draft regulation 3.1.1 The new Objective 1 of Convergence, which combines the Cohesion Fund and the existing Objective 1 of the Structural Funds.
This objective is in line with the strategy put forward by the Lisbon European Council of supporting employment, economic reform and social cohesion in the context of a knowledge-based economy and the needs of sustainable development. 3.1.2.2 Eligible areas: generally, all regions which are not covered by the new Objective 1. 3.1.2.3 Financial aspects: total financial appropriation: 18 % of budget allocated to cohesion policy (as envisaged by the Financial Perspective for 2007-2013).
Applies throughout the European Union. 3.1.3.2 Financial aspects: total financial appropriation: 4 % of budget allocated to cohesion policy (as envisaged by the Financial Perspective for 2007-2013).
Firstly, the commitment of Objective 1 regions to cohesion policy is a major political factor.
Given that the Structural Funds are a vital tool in reducing and mitigating social exclusion and in combating discrimination against disabled people, the Member States and the Commission must act to ensure that these funds are used as an economic instrument to: - improve access to employment by jobseekers and increase participation in the labour market, - enhance social inclusion and combat discrimination, and - undertake reforms in the field of employment that also benefit disabled persons. 3.4.8.1 The Commission's current proposals do not take social aspects sufficiently into account.
The Structural Funds, and the European Social Fund in particular, must be a tool for employment, and also for the European strategy on social inclusion, by encouraging the development of labour markets specifically geared to that end. 3.4.9 Priorities should include a strategy for locally generated development based on optimum knowledge of the areas concerned through observation tools that involve a local partnership of all stakeholders.
In this connection, the EU must play a key role in supporting and propagating innovation in economic, social and territorial cohesion policy, bringing genuine European added value to measures planned and implemented at local, regional, national and international levels. 3.5 Bringing procedures into line with European developments 3.5.1 Over the years, European procedures have tended towards complexity, resulting in very elaborate procedures at the expense of transparency and accessibility.
Brussels, 6 April 2005.
