BACKGROUND Date of transmission of the proposal to the EP and the Council (document COM(2003) 739 final – C5-0642-03–2003/0300(COD)): | 11 December 2003 | Date of the opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee: | 28 October 2004 | Date of the opinion of the European Parliament, first reading: | 7 June 2005 | Date of adoption of the common position: | 23 September 2005 | 2 .
Overall remarks on the common position The Commission considers that the Common Position that has been reached is generally faithful to the spirit of the Commission’s proposal of 10 December 2003, with the exception of (1) the nature of the overall savings target (indicative as opposed to binding) and (2) the removal of the savings target for the public sector.
These include most of the definitions, the introduction of a comitology procedure, and the improvement of Article 6 on the obligation.
Amendment 3 as re-drafted adequately expresses the many advantages of improving energy efficiency.
Amendments 5 and 12 are incorporated in Recital 9 (supply of and demand for energy services), in Recital 12 (the role of the public sector in increasing demand for energy-efficient technology and energy services) and Recital 15a (comitology), all of which are important.
Amendment 7 is satisfactorily incorporated except for the part on the nature of the target, which has been made indicative in the Common Position.
Amendment 8 is acceptable as incorporated.
The principle expressed in Amendment 8 of regulating and prohibiting the use of cross-subsidies between energy and technology is important and is partially addressed in Article 6.3.
Amendment 11, on the value of recent developments in metering technology, is reflected in Recital 13a of the Common Position.
This is also true of Amendment 13 on the Internal Market Directives, now covered satisfactorily and incorporated in Recital 4.
Amendment 12 on the comitology procedure is reflected in an acceptable way in Recital 15a in the Common Position.
Amendment 14 has been satisfactorily incorporated in part, as reflected in Article 2.2.
Amendment 26 on “energy savings performance contracts” has not been explicitly incorporated in the Common Position because this definition is now considered to be a subset of “energy performance contracts”, for which a definition exists in the Common Position.
Amendment 33 underscores the fact that national energy efficiency measures may already exist.
Amendment 47 removes free audits as a way of fulfilling the obligation in Article 6.
Amendment 48 is acceptable as incorporated because the demand side is as important as the supply side of the market for energy services and other energy efficiency improvement measures.
Amendment 49 sets forth the need to protect privacy and personal integrity.
This important aspect has been satisfactorily incorporated.
Amendment 50 provides for Member States to ensure that all market actors can participate in the market for energy services and energy efficiency improvement measures.
Amendment 57 is acceptable as incorporated since there is a need to require Member States to address the small customers in the domestic sector, where transactions costs are higher.
Amendment 64 is acceptably incorporated, stating that information should be regular and come frequently enough to allow customers to regulate their consumption.
Amendment 74 states that a Commission report should be prepared not later than four years after transposition.
This is partially incorporated.
Amendment 76 is incorporated in Article 16.
Amendment 78 is incorporated in a way which leads to the clarification of the calculation method, as intended by the amendment in question.
Amendment 79 is incorporated in Annex I, although a six-year base is used.
Amendments 82, 86, 88 and 90 propose new examples of eligible energy efficiency improvement measures and are incorporated in Annex III in an acceptable manner because this makes the list more comprehensive.
Amendments 83, 84, 92, 93 95 and 96 are accepted in part or in principle by the Commission.
These amendments have also been acceptably incorporated into the Common Position: Amendments 83, 92 and 95 are partly incorporated in the new text in Annex III, points m and n.
Amendment 93 is partly introduced in point f (new efficient devices and time control for optimised energy use) and point d (digital control systems).
Amendment 84 is also partially incorporated under point f (combined heat and power appliances).
Amendment 96 is partly incorporated (implicitly)under point p (energy labelling schemes).
Amendment 99 outlines a harmonised bottom-up system for the measurement of energy efficiency improvements.
This has been partially incorporated in a manner satisfactory for the Commission.
However, the proposed thresholds -- 2% ceiling for measurement costs and 40 million kWh for the use of simplified indicators --should be left to comitology. 3.3.
Amendments rejected by the Commission but incorporated in the common position Amendments 80, 87, and 98 were rejected by the Commission but incorporated into the Common Position.
Amendment 80 is incorporated in the Common Position to the extent that early measures must have “a lasting effect”.
Amendments 87 and 98 (in Annex III and Annex IV) were rejected by the Commission because they were already covered elsewhere and were thus deemed unnecessary. (This could also be interpreted as meaning that they are already successfully incorporated and should therefore be considered under 3.2, above.) 3.4.
Amendments accepted by the Commission and not incorporated in the common position Amendment 2 (new Recital 2a) and Amendment 4 are acceptable by the Commission, although they are not incorporated in the Common Position.
There are several other amendments that are acceptable to the Commission, but were not incorporated in the Common position.
In Amendment 39 (on public sector targets), three consecutive three-year mandatory targets are proposed.
Amendment 40 is acceptable for the same reason, namely because it refers to the three consecutive three-year targets.
Amendment 41 sets forth, in addition to mandatory targets, mandatory public purchasing guidelines.
Amendment 31 concerns a nine-year target instead of a six-year target and could probably be considered as a means of increasing flexibility.
Amendments 38, 40 and 44 have not been incorporated in the Common Position due to the fact that the role of the public sector and the public sector target have both been diminished compared to the Commission’s original proposal.
Amendments related to Article 7 in the Common Position (Amendments 51, 52 and 54) could also possibly be considered, even though the nature of Article 7 has changed in the Common Position.
Furthermore, provisions have been introduced that will allow the use of voluntary agreements and white certificate schemes as instruments that will contribute towards fulfilling the obligation in Article 6 and toward target achievement. 4.
CONCLUSION The Commission considers that the Common Position unanimously adopted on 19 September 2005 further clarifies many issues, improves the definitions, and provides for a satisfactory comitology process and for a framework for measuring energy efficiency improvements.
This is not made clear in the Common position.
