The European Commission has responded to the need for such a comprehensive and integrated approach by establishing a broad-based actions programme implemented by Directorate General for Economic and Financial Affairs[1].
Such actions include, for instance, the establishment of an external expert group on analysis and forecasting macro-economic developments in the euro area (the “European Forecasting Network”); the organisation of research conferences, workshops and seminars both on a regular and on an ad hoc basis; the creation of a visiting fellows programme within the Commission services; or the setting-up of a study programme in the area of EMU related research with the purpose of soliciting specifically focused contributions from external researchers. 3.
Conversely, outside participants in the programme have an opportunity to discuss their research results with staff from the Commission and other officials from EU institutions and, in doing so, contribute to developing their perception of the policy relevance of their research activity.
Depending on the conference, attendance varied between 50 and 300 participants and topics covered a wide spectrum of issues such as the internationalisation of asset ownership in the EU, statistical tools in business cycle analysis, the economic and budgetary implications of global ageing and the analysis of business cycles and growth in Europe.
The Economic Seminar Programme A newly-designed Economic Seminar Programme (ESP) was established in 2003 with a view to enhancing synergy effects between EMU research inside and outside the Commission.
During their stay at the Commission, Visiting Fellows are required to actively participate in the work carried out by the Commission services, primarily by engaging, in areas related to their own research programme, in discussions with, and giving advice to, Commission staff dealing with work in the same areas.
The number of visitors invited has increased from 6 in 2002 to 10 in 2003 and 11 in 2004.
Studies mainly serve as a background material to ongoing work of the Commission staff but when they are of interest to a wider public they are published in the “ European Economy ” series or the “ Economic Papers ” series of the Directorate-General for Economic and Financial Affairs.
The evaluation was begun in 2005 and the final report will be delivered in the summer of 2006. 6.
