Notice of initiation of an anti-dumping proceeding concerning imports of certain iron or steel ropes and cables originating in the Republic of Korea (2004/C 283/05) The Commission has received a complaint pursuant to Article 5 of Council Regulation (EC) No 384/96 [1] (the basic Regulation), alleging that imports of certain iron or steel ropes and cables, originating in the Republic of Korea (the country concerned), are being dumped and are thereby causing material injury to the Community industry. 1.
Complaint The complaint was lodged on 11 October 2004 by the Liaison Committee of European Wire Rope Industries (EWRIS) (the complainant) on behalf of producers representing a major proportion, in this case more than 50 %, of the total Community production of certain iron or steel ropes and cables. 2.
On this basis, the dumping margin calculated is significant. 4.
Procedure Having determined, after consulting the Advisory Committee, that the complaint has been lodged by or on behalf of the Community industry and that there is sufficient evidence to justify the initiation of a proceeding, the Commission hereby initiates an investigation pursuant to Article 5 of the basic Regulation. 5.1.
In order to obtain the information it deems necessary for the selection of the sample of exporters/producers, the Commission will, in addition, contact the authorities of the exporting country and any known associations of exporters/producers. (ii) Sampling for importers In order to enable the Commission to decide whether sampling is necessary and, if so, to select a sample, all importers, or representatives acting on their behalf, are hereby requested to make themselves known to the Commission and to provide the following information on their company or companies within the time limit set in paragraph 6(b)(i) and in the formats indicated in point 7 of this notice: - name, address, e-mail address, telephone, and fax, and/or telex numbers and contact person, - the total turnover in euro of the company during the period 1 July 2003 to 30 June 2004, - the total number of employees, - the precise activities of the company with regard to the product concerned, - the volume in tonnes and value in euro of imports into and resales made in the Community market during the period 1 July 2003 to 30 June 2004 of the imported product concerned originating in the Republic of Korea, - the names and the precise activities of all related companies [0] involved in the production and/or selling of the product concerned, - any other relevant information that would assist the Commission in the selection of the sample, - an indication of whether the company or companies agree to their inclusion in the sample, which implies replying to a questionnaire and accepting an on-the-spot investigation of their response.
It should be noted that any information submitted pursuant to Article 21 will only be taken into account if supported by factual evidence at the time of submission. 6.
Commission address for correspondence: European Commission Directorate-General for Trade Directorate B Office: J-79 5/16 B-1049 Brussels Fax (32-2) 295 65 05 Telex COMEU B 21877. 8.
Non-cooperation In cases in which any interested party refuses access to or does not provide the necessary information within the time limits, or significantly impedes the investigation, provisional or final findings, affirmative or negative, may be made in accordance with Article 18 of the basic Regulation, on the basis of the facts available.
If an interested party does not cooperate or cooperates only partially and findings are therefore based on facts available in accordance with Article 18 of the basic Regulation, the result may be less favourable to that party than if it had cooperated. 9.
It is a confidential document pursuant to Article 19 of Council Regulation (EC) No 384/96 (OJ L 56, 6.3.1996, p. 1) and Article 6 of the WTO Agreement on Implementation of Article VI of the GATT 1994 (Anti-dumping Agreement).
