Proposal for a Council Decision on a Community Position regarding Decision No. [c/2005] of the Community/Switzerland Air Transport Committee established under the Agreement between the European Community and the Swiss Confederation on Air Transport, amending the Annex to the Agreement /* COM/2006/0221 final */ [pic] | COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES | Brussels, 19.5.2006 COM(2006) 221 final Proposal for a COUNCIL DECISION on a Community Position regarding Decision No. [c/2005] of the Community/Switzerland Air Transport Committee established under the Agreement between the European Community and the Swiss Confederation on Air Transport, amending the Annex to the Agreement (presented by the Commission) EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM On 1 June 2002 the Agreement between the European Community and the Swiss Confederation on Air Transport entered into force.
Article 21 of the Agreement establishes a Community/Switzerland Air Transport Committee which is responsible for the administration and proper implementation of the Agreement.
In close contact with Member States, including in the preparations of the EC/Switzerland Air Transport Committee meetings of 2003 and 2004, the Commission defended and achieved a solution which is reflected in the draft Joint Committee Decision attached to the current Proposal.
The main aspects of this solution are: 1) Switzerland is to contribute financially according to ICAO standards (and not according to the more favourable EEA-standard, 2) Switzerland will not have voting rights in the Management Board, 3) Switzerland will apply the Protocol on Privileges and Immunities as well as the provisions for financial control worked out in 2004 in the framework of negotiations on Swiss participation in the European Environment Agency, 4) Because Switzerland accepted that in relation to the safety legislation Community Institutions will have direct authority on its territory (“single pillar approach”) Switzerland can participate, as an observer, in the 1592/2002 Committee, through a unilateral Declaration of the Council (similar to the unilateral declaration adopted by the Council in 2002 on Swiss participation in the aviation competition Committee and in the market access Committee).
It is to be noted that on the occasion of the EC-Switzerland Joint Aviation Committee meeting of 25 November 2005, it was agreed that in parallel to the procedure leading to the incorporation of the above-mentioned EASA-related package, also the technical acts which have been developed in the aviation safety area (Regulation 1702/2003 on certification of airworthiness, Regulation 2042/2003 on certification of maintenance, Regulation 381/2005 amending 1702/2003 and Regulation 488/2005 on fees and charges) will be incorporated into the Annex to the EC-Switzerland Air Transport Agreement, through a separate Joint Aviation Committee Decision.
Article 2 The Declaration on Swiss attendance of committees contained in the Final Act of the Agreement between the European Community and the Swiss Confederation signed on 21 June 1999 and adopted by the Council on 4 April 2002, is supplemented by a Declaration on Swiss participation in the Committee established by Regulation 1592/2002.
Article 2 This Decision with its Annex shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union, and the Official Compendium of Swiss Federal Law.
The following shall be added to point 4 (Air Safety) of the Annex to the Agreement, after the inclusion referred to in number 1 of the present Annex: “No 1643/2003 Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 July 2003 amending Regulation (EC) No 1592/2002 on common rules in the field of civil aviation and establishing a European Aviation Safety Agency” 3.
The following shall be added to point 4 (Air Safety) of the Annex to the Agreement, after the inclusion referred to in number 2 of the present Annex: “No 1701/2003 Commission Regulation of 24 September 2003 adapting Article 6 of Regulation (EC) No 1592/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council on common rules in the field of civil aviation and establishing a European Aviation Safety Agency” 4.
CHAPTER I PROPERTY, FUNDS, ASSETS AND OPERATIONS OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES Article 1 The premises and buildings of the Communities shall be inviolable.
Article 2 The archives of the Communities shall be inviolable.
Article 3 The Communities, their assets, revenues and other property shall be exempt from all direct taxes.
Article 4 The Communities shall be exempt from all customs duties, prohibitions and restrictions on imports and exports in respect of articles intended for their official use: articles so imported shall not be disposed of, whether or not in return for payment, in the territory of the country into which they have been imported, except under conditions approved by the government of that country.
Article 5 The European Coal and Steel Community may hold currency of any kind and operate accounts in any currency.
CHAPTER II COMMUNICATIONS AND LAISSEZ PASSER Article 6 For their official communications and the transmission of all their documents, the institutions of the Communities shall enjoy in the territory of each Member State the treatment accorded by that State to diplomatic missions.
CHAPTER III MEMBERS OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT Article 8 No administrative or other restriction shall be imposed on the free movement of Members of the European Parliament travelling to or from the place of meeting of the European Parliament.
Article 9 Members of the European Parliament shall not be subject to any form of inquiry, detention or legal proceedings in respect of opinions expressed or votes cast by them in the performance of their duties.
CHAPTER IV REPRESENTATIVES OF MEMBER STATES TAKING PART IN THE WORK OF THE INSTITUTIONS OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES Article 11 Representatives of Member States taking part in the work of the institutions of the Communities, their advisers and technical experts shall, in the performance of their duties and during their travel to and from the place of meeting, enjoy the customary privileges, immunities and facilities.
Article 13 Officials and other servants of the Communities shall be liable to a tax for the benefit of the Communities on salaries, wages and emoluments paid to them by the Communities, in accordance with the conditions and procedure laid down by the Council, acting on a proposal from the Commission.
Article 14 In the application of income tax, wealth tax and death duties and in the application of conventions on the avoidance of double taxation concluded between Member States of the Communities, officials and other servants of the Communities who, solely by reason of the performance of their duties in the service of the Communities, establish their residence in the territory of a Member State other than their country of domicile for tax purposes at the time of entering the service of the Communities, shall be considered, both in the country of their actual residence and in the country of domicile for tax purposes, as having maintained their domicile in the latter country provided that it is a member of the Communities.
Article 15 The Council shall, acting unanimously on a proposal from the Commission, lay down the scheme of social security benefits for officials and other servants of the Communities.
Article 16 The Council shall, acting on a proposal from the Commission and after consulting the other institutions concerned, determine the categories of officials and other servants of the Communities to whom the provisions of Article 12, the second paragraph of Article 13, and Article 14 shall apply, in whole or in part.
CHAPTER VI PRIVILEGES AND IMMUNITIES OF MISSIONS OF THIRD COUNTRIES ACCREDITED TO THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES Article 17 The Member State in whose territory the Communities have their seat shall accord the customary diplomatic immunities and privileges to missions of third countries accredited to the Communities.
CHAPTER VII GENERAL PROVISIONS Article 18 Privileges, immunities and facilities shall be accorded to officials and other servants of the Communities solely in the interests of the Communities.
Article 19 The institutions of the Communities shall, for the purpose of applying this Protocol, cooperate with the responsible authorities of the Member States concerned.
Article 20 Articles 12 to 15 and Article 18 shall apply to Members of the Commission.
Article 22 This Protocol shall also apply to the European Investment Bank, to the members of its organs, to its staff and to the representatives of the Member States taking part in its activities, without prejudice to the provisions of the Protocol on the Statute of the Bank.
Article 23 This Protocol shall also apply to the European Central Bank, to the members of its organs and to its staff, without prejudice to the provisions of the Protocol on the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and the European Central Bank.
Exemption from VAT shall be granted if the actual purchase price of the goods and services mentioned in the invoice or equivalent document totals at least 100 Swiss francs (inclusive of tax).
Switzerland shall not be considered as a Member State within the meaning of point 1 above for the application of Article 14 of the Protocol.
The Court of Justice of the European Communities shall have exclusive jurisdiction in any matters concerning relations between the Agency or the Commission and its staff with regard to the application of Regulation (EEC, Euratom, ECSC) No 259/68 of the Council of 29 February 1968 (OJ L 56, 4.3.1968, p. 1) and the other provisions of Community law laying down working conditions.
ARTICLE 2 Audits 1.
In accordance with Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 and the financial regulations adopted by the Management Board of the Agency, with Commission Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2343/2002 of 23 December 2002 and with the other instruments referred to in this Decision, contracts or agreements concluded and decisions taken with beneficiaries established in Switzerland may provide for scientific, financial, technological or other audits to be conducted at any time on the premises of the beneficiaries and of their subcontractors by Agency and Commission officials or by other persons mandated by the Agency and the Commission. 2.
ARTICLE 3 On-the-spot checks 1.
Under this Decision, the Commission (OLAF) shall be authorised to carry out on-the-spot checks and inspections on Swiss territory, under the terms and conditions set out in Council Regulation (Euratom, EC) No 2185/96 of 11 November 1996. 2.
ARTICLE 4 Information and consultation 1.
ARTICLE 5 Confidentiality Information communicated or acquired in any form whatever pursuant to this Annex shall be covered by professional secrecy and protected in the same way as similar information is protected by Swiss law and by the corresponding provisions applicable to the Community institutions.
ARTICLE 6 Administrative measures and penalties Without prejudice to application of Swiss criminal law, administrative measures and penalties may be imposed by the Agency or the Commission in accordance with Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 and Commission Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2342/2002 of 23 December 2002 and with Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2988/95 of 18 December 1995 on the protection of the European Communities' financial interests.
ARTICLE 7 Recovery and enforcement Decisions taken by the Agency or the Commission within the scope of this Decision which impose a pecuniary obligation on persons other than States shall be enforceable in Switzerland.
