General context 1.
Welcomes the fact that the Cohesion Fund will apply to Member States with GNI lying bellow 90 % of the Community average.
Agrees that the regions totally covered by Objective 1 in 2006 and not eligible under the Convergence Objective, be classed as "phasing in" regions and continue to benefit from the Structural Funds so that they are involved in the pursuit of the regional competitiveness and employment objective on fair and equitable terms. 14.
This objective must place special emphasis on disseminating innovation and best practices in order to promote competitiveness in the EU. 15.
The Committee of the Regions underlines the importance for the partnership principle and the involvement of elected representatives from local and regional authorities and calls on the Commission to encourage Member States to make use of the possibility for concluding tripartite agreements, where necessary. 25.
Considers that the deeper involvement of regional and local authorities in all the phases of the next programming period will positively contribute to the resolution of the problems of absorption that appeared in the current programming period. 27.
Appreciates the inclusion of maritime borders for the purpose of territorial cooperation, and demands that the limit of 150 km should be interpreted in a flexible manner, in order to permit meaningful cooperation between regions that have common sea borders. 31.
It shall be aimed at meeting the challenges linked to the economic, social and territorial disparities, which have arisen particularly in countries and regions whose development is lagging behind, to the speeding-up of economic and social restructuring, and to the ageing of the population.The action taken under the Funds shall incorporate, at national and regional level, the Community's priorities in favour of sustainable development by strengthening growth, competitiveness and employment, social inclusion, as well as the protection and quality of the environment. | 1.The action taken by the Community under Article 158 of the Treaty shall be designed to strengthen the economic and social cohesion of the enlarged Community in order to promote the harmonious, balanced and sustainable development of the Community.
Recommendation 4 Article 6, paragraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission | CoR amendment | When presenting the national strategic reference framework referred to in Article 25, each Member State concerned shall indicate the NUTS I or II regions for which it will present a programme for financing by the ERDF. | When presenting the national strategic reference framework referred to in Article 25, each Member State concerned, by agreement with the regions, shall indicate the NUTS I or II regions for which it will present a programme for financing by the ERDF.
In accordance with Article 34(2), a Member State can also propose programmes at a different more appropriate territorial level. | Reason For the sake of clarity, it is important to include here a specific reference to Article 34 (point 2), according to which a Member State is allowed to propose operational programmes at a different territorial level than NUTS I or NUTS II regions.
CHAPTER IV Principles of assistance Recommendation 6 Article 10 paragraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission | Amendment | Assistance from the Funds shall be decided by the Commission within the framework of close cooperation, hereinafter "partnership", between the Commission and a Member State.
TITLE III PROGRAMMING CHAPTER I General provisions on the structural funds and the cohesion fund Recommendation 15 Article 31, paragraph 5 Text proposed by the Commission | CoR amendment | The Commission shall adopt each operational program as soon as possible after its formal submission by the Member State. | The Commission shall adopt each operational program as soon as possible within six months after its formal submission by the Member State. | Reason There must be a limit in time for how long the Member State will have to wait for the final decision by the Commission.
Recommendation 17 Article 32, paragraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission | CoR amendment | 2.The Commission shall adopt a decision on the requests for revision of operational programmes as soon as possible after formal submission of the request by the Member State. | 2.The Commission shall adopt a decision on the requests for revision of operational programmes as soon as possible within three months after formal submission of the request by the Member State. | Reason There must be a limit in time for how long the Member State will have to wait for the final decision by the Commission.
Recommendation 19 Article 40, paragraph 3 Text proposed by the Commission | CoR amendment | 3.The Commission shall adopt a decision as soon as possible after the submission by the Member State or the managing authority of all the information referred to in Article 39. | 3.The Commission shall adopt a decision as soon as possible at the latest six months after the submission by the Member State or the managing authority of all the information referred to in Article 39. | Reason There must be a limit in time for how long the Member State will have to wait for the final decision by the Commission.
Recommendation 20 Article 41, paragraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission | CoR amendment | The managing authority may entrust the management and implementation of a part of an operational programme to one or more intermediate bodies, designated by the managing authority, including local authorities, regional development bodies or non-governmental organisations, which shall ensure the implementation of one or more operations in accordance with the provisions of an agreement concluded between the managing authority and that body. | The managing authority may entrust the management and implementation of a part of an operational programme to one or more intermediate bodies, designated by the managing authority, including regional and local authorities, regional development bodies or non-governmental organisations, which shall ensure the implementation of one or more operations in accordance with the provisions of an agreement concluded between the managing authority and that body. | Reason It seems appropriate to specify that regional authorities may also be entrusted the management and implementation of a part of an operational programme through a global grant.
TITLE IV EFFECTIVENESS CHAPTER I Evaluation Recommendation 21 Article 45 paragraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission | CoR amendment | 1.The strategic guidelines of the Community, the national strategic reference framework, and the operational programmes shall be the subject of evaluation.
They shall also appraise their impact with respect to the strategic objectives of the Community, to Article 158 of the Treaty and to the specific structural problems affecting the Member States and regions concerned, while taking account of the needs of sustainable development and of the relevant Community legislation concerning environmental impact and strategic environmental assessment. | 1.The strategic guidelines of the Community, the national strategic reference framework, and the operational programmes shall be the subject of evaluation.
They shall also appraise their impact with respect to the strategic objectives of the Community, to Article 158 of the Treaty and to the specific structural problems affecting the Member States and regions concerned, while taking account of the needs of sustainable development and of the relevant Community legislation concerning environmental impact and strategic environmental assessment, equality between men and women, non-discrimination on the grounds covered by Article 13 of the EU Treaties, social inclusion and accessibility for disabled persons. | Reason Non-discrimination and social inclusion are important commitments and goal of the European Community and must be explicitly recognised in the objectives for the strategic guidelines.
TITLE V FINANCIAL CONTRIBUTION BY THE FUNDS CHAPTER 1 Contribution of the funds Recommendation 24 Article 50, point d) Text proposed by the Commission | CoR amendment | d)the rate of mobilisation of private financing, in particular under public-private partnerships, in the fields concerned. | d)the rate of mobilisation of private financing, in particular under public-private partnerships, in the fields concerned. | Reason The term "rate" refers to something countable.
TITLE VI MANAGEMENT, MONITORING AND CONTROLS CHAPTER I Management and control systems Recommendation 28 Article 58, paragraph 7 (new) Text proposed by the Commission | CoR amendment | | 7.Subject to Article 57(1) the tripartite agreements between local and regional bodies, the Member State and the Commission may be applied.
TITLE VII FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT CHAPTER I Financial management SECTION 3 Pre-financing Recommendation 29 Article 81 paragraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission | CoR amendment | 1.Following the Commission decision approving the contribution from the Funds to an operational programme, a single pre-financing amount shall be paid by the Commission to the body designated by the Member State.
Brussels, 13 April 2005.
The President of the Committee of the Regions Peter Straub [1] JO C 318 du 22.12.2004, p. 1 [2] OJ 2003/C 256/01 [3] JO C 192 du 12.8.2002, p. 53 --------------------------------------------------
