Communication from the Commission on measures to ensure greater security in explosives, detonators, bomb-making equipment and fire-arms /* COM/2005/0329 final */ [pic] | COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES | Brussels, 18.07.2005 COM(2005) 329 final COMMUNICATION FROM THE COMMISSION ON MEASURES TO ENSURE GREATER SECURITY IN EXPLOSIVES, DETONATORS, BOMB-MAKING EQUIPMENT AND FIRE-ARMS COMMUNICATION FROM THE COMMISSION ON MEASURES TO ENSURE GREATER SECURITY IN EXPLOSIVES, DETONATORS, BOMB-MAKING EQUIPMENT AND FIRE-ARMS 1.
However, in the aftermath of the terrorist bombings in Madrid on 11 March 2004 a consensus started to emerge within EU Member States for the need to explore a more harmonised system that would prevent explosives, detonators, bomb-making equipment and fire-arms from falling into the hands of terrorists.
Furthermore, the revised Plan of Action on Combating Terrorism of June 2004 called upon the Council and the Commission to examine the scope for measures to ensure greater security of explosives (Action 3.6.1).
The Commission, in its October 2004 Communication on Prevention, preparedness and response to terrorist attacks[1] signalled its intention to present proposals if necessary to ensure the highest possible security level in Europe.
THE EU PLAN FOR ENHANCING THE SECURITY OF EXPLOSIVES THE COMMISSION plans to bring together all the major stakeholders : the manufacturers of, and traders in, explosives, experts from Europol and SitCen, national experts from the Member States, Commission and the Council Terrorism Working Party.
Trade in fertilisers The Fertiliser Regulation [3], in Articles 25 to 28, foresees some security measures, controls and special testing requirements for ammonium nitrate fertilisers.
Storage of explosives The storage of explosives falls under the Seveso II Directive [4] .
In order to achieve the objectives established in the EU Plan of Action on combating terrorism (point 4.2), the Commission has started to develop a policy on supply chain security, in order to complement already existing legislation in various areas of transport security (air, maritime and port security) and increase security on land transport.
Detection of explosives and fire-arms at airports Following the September 11 attacks and other air-craft related incidents, airport security has been increased.
European law enforcement services and in particular their Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD) Units need to have 24-hour access to available data on explosives, explosive devices and their components in order to exchange this information immediately in the light of terrorist bomb incidents or threats.
Europol should promote the use of its database on explosive devices used by terrorists by the competent services in the Member States and the Commission by reporting every six months about the inputs provided by Member States to the database. 4.7.2.
This inventory also assesses their capabilities in terms of forensic investigation in bomb attacks and will also be a first step for a future application of solidarity mechanisms amongst Member States in case of major terrorist events. 4.7.3.
The Preparatory Action covers 5 main priority research areas, including the fight against terrorism.
Law enforcement cooperation in the field of fire-arms Several initiatives have already been launched with the aim of improving law enforcement co-operation in the fight against illicit firearms that will reap results in 2005.
Europol is currently undertaking a feasibility study in the area of illicit trafficking in firearms in order to decide whether an analysis work file on illicit firearms can be opened in 2005.
However, the improved import/export regime is only one element of the prevention of illegal trafficking of firearms and must be seen in combination with effective border management, including an active neighbourhood policy in this area. [1] COM (2004) 698 final; 20.10.2004 [2] The United Nations Report on Illicit Manufacturing of and trafficking in explosives by criminals and their use for criminal purposes (of 23rd January 2002); E/CN.15/2002/9/Add.1 [3] Regulation (EC) 2003/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 October 2003 relating to fertilizers. [4] Seveso II Directive (96/82/EC) on the control of major-accident hazards (OJ No L 10 of 14 January 1997). [5] OJ L 121 of 15 May 1993 [6] Council Directive of 18 June 1991 on control of the acquisition and possession of weapons (91/477/EEC).
