At its 414th plenary session, held on 9 and 10 February 2005 (meeting of 9 February), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion with 75 votes in favour and one abstention: 1.
Introduction 1.1 The 2003 annual report highlights changes to the internal organisation of the sector and to the working methods of the Commission, and documents the way the Commission secures coherence within the fabric of European economic governance. 1.2 EU competition policy plays an important role in achieving the competitiveness goals set out in the Lisbon strategy.
The fines imposed totalled EUR 400 million.
A more organised and involved consumer movement could also aid government decision-making, and provide information on markets and anti-competitive practices. 3.3 In the field of postal services, the directive adopted in 2002 is geared towards completion of the internal market, in particular through a progressive reduction of the reserved area and the liberalisation of outgoing cross-border mail.
Furthermore, on the basis of an agreement reached by the European Council, the Commission will carry out a study in 2006 to assess the impact of universal services for every Member State.
For that it is fundamental to increase the knowledge and skills levels of all those required to use information and communication technologies. 3.5 In the air transport sector, in 2003 the Commission decided to launch a comprehensive and non-case-related dialogue with all the industry stakeholders, in order to prepare transparent guidelines on competition enforcement issues in the field of airline alliances and mergers. 3.5.1 Progress has also been made on defining and implementing common guidelines on the application of antitrust rules in the rail sector for both goods and passenger transport. 3.5.2 In addition, there have been developments in industry dialogue in the maritime transport, motor vehicle distribution and insurance sectors, with a view to adopting or revising block exemption regulations. 3.5.3 This dialogue should also consider comparable forms of tax treatment. 3.6 Media: the Commission believes that media pluralism is fundamental to both the development of the EU and the cultural identity of the Member States, but stresses that responsibility for the control of media concentration rests primarily with the Member States.
This report, which contains some important pointers and guidelines, was published on 9 February 2004. 4.
Reform of the merger control system 4.1 On 27 November 2003, the Council reached a political agreement on a recast Merger Regulation incorporating most of the reforms proposed by the Commission in December 2002.
The basic aim is to improve mutual understanding between different jurisdictions so as to make merger control activities more effective. 5.1.2 More generally, the ICN acts as a virtual network between various national competition authorities, with a view to facilitating international cooperation and making proposals to reduce regulatory costs and encourage procedural harmonisation and real convergence. 5.1.3 The Second ICN Conference held in Merida, Mexico in June 2003 highlighted the need to adopt clear and easily accessible language in the area of competition rules and also stressed the strategic nature of activities promoting competition in the field of regulated sectors, with a view to reducing regulatory costs and overcoming obstacles to a mutual understanding of merger policy between jurisdictions. 6.
Brussels, 9 February 2005.
