Opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee on the Report on Competition Policy 2004 (SEC(2005) 805 final) Opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee on the Report on Competition Policy 2004 (SEC(2005) 805 final) (2006/C 110/02) On 17 June 2005 the European Commission decided to consult the European Economic and Social Committee, under Article 262 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, on the: Report on Competition Policy 2004.
At its 425th plenary session, held on 15 and 16 March 2006, (meeting of 15 March), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 138 votes to one, with two abstentions. 1.
The reality is quite different, however, in particular as regards the behaviour of certain Member States, who continue to think nationally. 2.2.7 DG Competition should carry out economic and social assessments to follow up the cases on which it is working.
This table would form the framework of good practice for Member States when granting aid. 3.2 Furthermore, given that the defining event of 2004 was enlargement, it is to be regretted that the report provides relatively little information about the new Member States' implementation of Community competition policy.
This is guaranteed by a specific service, the ADO (Authorised Disclosure Officer), which allows one or more persons to intervene in the transmission of confidential information.
These mechanisms have been implemented on several occasions since 1 May 2004, mainly with the Commission and apparently with success. 3.3.3.4 Although the economic players claim that the ECN has been a great success, the EESC nevertheless wishes to warn the Commission of the potential long-term problem — with there being many more cases to handle — of ensuring that confidential information is fully protected when it is exchanged. 3.4 Article 82 — Abuse of a dominant position 3.4.1 Article 82 of the Treaty prohibits the abuse of a dominant position by a company (in the form of imposing unfair prices, dividing up markets by means of exclusive sales agreements or loyalty rebates which discourage customers from using competing suppliers).
The Committee hopes that the guidelines now under consideration will enable businesses in a dominant position to make a clear assessment of whether their behaviour is legal and points out that to complete the discussion, dialogue with the players concerned, (businesses, in particular SMEs, consumers, the social partners, etc.) must be guaranteed. 3.5 Merger control 3.5.1 The EESC welcomes the pragmatic development of setting up a "one-stop shop" for notifications of proposed mergers and of providing much-needed clarification for the competitiveness test, bringing this further into line with the reality of the economic situation and making it more compatible with the rules in force in the main merger investigation systems across the world.
The EESC thus hopes that the 2005 report will provide practical information that will help to gauge the effectiveness of this dialogue.
Our examination of the 2004 report does, however, give rise to the following general comments: 3.7.2 It is crucial to improve transparency concerning information given to companies receiving individual aid (such as the date of notification and the reasons given by the Member States).
The Commission should not impose limits on agreements between SMEs, so that they can combat competition from large integrated groups and should provide more resources so that the most serious distortions can be combated effectively. 4.2.1.2 Where the liberal professions are concerned, following its communication of 9 February 2004, the Commission published a report on competition in this sector [4], setting out the progress that had been made on removing unnecessary restrictions on competition such as price regulation, rules on advertising, entry barriers to the profession and reserved tasks.
Brussels, 15 March 2006.
The President of the European Economic and Social Committee Anne-Marie Sigmund [1] Belgium, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Poland, Slovakia, Sweden and the United Kingdom. [2] DG Competition discussion paper on the application of Article 82 of the treaty to exclusionary abuses.
