Communication from the Commission to the Council - Establishment of an OECD EDRC examination of EC economic policies alongside to the Euro Area Survey /* COM/2005/0150 final */ Brussels, 21.04.2005 COM(2005) 150 final COMMUNICATION FROM THE COMMISSION TO THE COUNCIL Establishment of an OECD EDRC examination of EC economic policies alongside to the Euro Area Survey The issue In this Communication, the Commission proposes elements for the reply to be given to the request of the Ambassadors of Australia, Canada, Japan, Korea, Mexico, Japan and the US (APEC) to the OECD to widen OECD EDRC Examinations of the Euro Area to include Community policies that have an impact on the EU’s economic performance.
See Annex 1 for a more detailed description of the EDRC process, including the one pertaining to the euro area.
The two exercises should be separated because 1) the Euro Area Review concerns 12 MS (all of which are OECD Members), while the EU 25 Review would concern all MS (not all of which being Member of the OECD) and 2) different modalities would apply in terms of representation.
Benefits from an EU 25 Review An EU 25 Review would hold a number of benefits as it would: - Reinforce the profile and visibility of the EC as an economic entity in its own right; reflect EC competences more fully and accurately, and bestow upon the representation of the EC a well-defined and recognised role in the EDRC committee; - Underline the openness and transparency of the EC, also in terms of being subjected to constructive and justified criticism; - Address in a single forum Community wide policies otherwise being addressed in a very repetitive and fragmented manner in all individual MS EDRC reviews. - Serve to correct misunderstandings on the part of other OECD members and/or the OECD secretariat as regards certain EC policies (or aspects of same). - Allow the EC to voice legitimate criticism regarding policies of other OECD members reviewed in the EDRC, without any risk of being accused of not being subject to similar scrutiny; - And constitute a practical example of the current Commission’s emphasis on identifying means and policies to strengthen our economic performance and competitiveness.
Procedural devices for an EU 25 Review Establishing an EU 25 Review would have to take account of the uniqueness of the EC as a supranational organisation, and in particular the division of competences between EC and MS , the rules on the external representation of the EC as well as the status of the EC in the OECD .
An EDRC EU 25 review would apply to Community-wide policies of all 25 MS.
This means that the EDRC would examine policies that have been formulated and apply to all 25 countries, while a significant number of those MS are not represented.
Finally, while understanding that the very objective is to have a comprehensive review, the scope of the EU 25 Review must remain manageable and reasonable.
the “EU 25 Review” would not cover EMU matters).
Conclusion On the basis of the above, the Commission takes the view that an EU 25 review would hold clear benefits for the EC which clearly outweigh possible drawbacks such as the increased work load for certain Commission services and the need for coordination.
Currently 19 of the 25[4] EU Member Sates are members of the OECD EDR and regularly subject to the EDRC exams.
The experience with euro area surveys 2004 marks the fourth edition of the euro area survey.
