Article 2 of the Agreement replaces the traditional designation clauses with a Community designation clause, permitting all Community carriers to benefit from the right of establishment.
Articles 4 and 5 of the Agreement address two types of clauses concerning matters of Community competence.
Article 5 (Pricing) resolves conflicts between the existing bilateral air services agreements and Council Regulation No. 2409/92 on fares and rates for air services which prohibits third country carriers from being price leaders on air services for carriage wholly within the Community.
Article 2 The president of the Council is authorised to designate the person empowered to make the notification provided in Article 8.1 of the Agreement.
References in each of the agreements listed in Annex 1 to nationals of the Member State that is a party to that agreement shall be understood as referring to nationals of the Member States of the European Community. 3.
Article 2 Designation by a Member State 1.
the air carrier is owned and shall continue to be owned directly or through majority ownership by Member States and/or nationals of Member States, and/or by other states listed in Annex 3 and/or nationals of such other states, and shall at all times be effectively controlled by such states and/or such nationals. 3.
the air carrier is not owned, directly or through majority ownership, or it is not effectively controlled by Member States and/or nationals of Member States, and/or by other states listed in Annex 3 and/or nationals of such other states.
The provisions in paragraph 2 of this Article shall complement the articles listed in Annex 2 (c). 2.
The provisions in paragraph 2 of this Article shall complement the corresponding provisions in the articles listed in Annex 2 (d). 2.
Article 5 Tariffs for carriage within the European Community 1.
The provisions in paragraph 2 of this Article shall complement the articles listed in Annex 2 (e). 2.
Article 6 Annexes to the Agreement The Annexes to this Agreement shall form an integral part thereof.
Article 9 Termination 1.
