Access to national registers: the national laws determining which authorities have access to the register of convictions are not uniform.
In some cases provision is also made for administrative authorities to access data where necessary in the course of their duties.
Exchanges of information on convictions Information on convictions in other Member States is currently governed by Articles 13 and 22 of the 1959 European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters[2] (“the 1959 Convention”), supplemented by Article 4 of the Additional Protocol dated 17 March 1978.
Whilst the 1959 Convention constitutes the existing framework for exchanges of information, the machinery it provides for has limited scope.
The difficulty in rapidly identifying the Member States in which individuals have already been convicted: in practice, it is difficult for a Member State to determine, on a definitive, reliable basis, whether an individual has been convicted of an offence in another Member State.
As a result, the criminal records of the Member State of nationality are often incomplete.
In practice, nationals of other Member States are often sentenced solely on the basis of their criminal record in the country in which the trial takes place, with the courts in complete ignorance of convictions in other Member States and, in particular, in the Member State of which the persons concerned are nationals or in which they habitually reside.
Possible options The mutual recognition programme provided for three options (measure 4) designed to improve circulation between the Member States of information on convictions: ( i ) facilitating bilateral information exchanges , ( ii ) networking national criminal records offices and ( iii ) setting up a genuine European central criminal records office .
According to the Member States, criminal records may include a series of procedural decisions taken in the pre-trial stage among others (see paragraph 6 above).
The system must operate between the central authorities of each Member State .
Work programme In spring 2005, once an initial technical feasibility study has been carried out, the Commission will submit a proposal for a Decision on a computerised European mechanism for exchanging information on convictions along the lines of stage 1 as outlined above.
A start could be made on implementing stage 1 in 2006.
This is because in most cases not guilty decisions (decisions ordering release or acquittal) are not included in national court records but have to be taken into account by dint of the ne bis in idem principle.
The 1959 Convention makes no mention of the legal consequences that should be attached to foreign convictions.
The European Convention on the International Validity of Criminal Judgements[5] of 28 May 1970 makes provision for measures in that area but has been ratified by only a few Member States.
By 19 October 2004 this Convention had been ratified by nine Member States. [6] OJ L 329, 14.12.2001, p. 3.
