Proposal for a Council Decision on the European Community position regarding a decision of the EC Monaco Joint Committee concerning its rules of procedure /* COM/2006/0047 final */ [pic] | COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES | Brussels, 9.2.2006 COM(2006) 47 final Proposal for a COUNCIL DECISION on the European Community position regarding a decision of the EC-Monaco Joint Committee concerning its rules of procedure (presented by the Commission) EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM The Agreement, signed on 4 December 2003, between the European Community and the Principality of Monaco on the application of certain Community acts on the territory of the Principality of Monaco entered into force on 1 May 2004.
Article 2 The Rules of Procedure of the Joint Committee shall apply from 1 January 2006.
Each party shall appoint the head of its delegation and, if need be, a deputy head.
Article 3 THE CHAIRMAN The Joint Committee shall be chaired by the European Community for the first six months of the year and by the Principality of Monaco for the other sixth months.
Article 4 SECRETARIAT A representative of the Community and a representative of Monaco shall act jointly as secretaries of the Joint Committee.
Article 5 CONVENING AND ORGANISING MEETINGS The Joint Committee shall meet as and when necessary.
A meeting shall be convened by the chairman at the request of a head of delegation at least two months before the meeting.
Article 6 AGENDAS FOR MEETINGS The secretaries shall draw up a provisional agenda for each meeting.
Article 8 ADOPTION OF ACTS The Joint Committee shall take decisions by mutual agreement and make recommendations by mutual agreement between the two parties, in accordance with the provisions laid down in the Agreement.
Article 9 WRITTEN PROCEDURE Outside meetings, the Joint Committee may take decisions or adopt recommendations by correspondence (written procedure).
Article 10 OBSERVERS AND INVITED EXPERTS The chairman may invite, subject to the other party’s agreement, experts, representatives of governments or other persons who are not members of the delegations to observe a meeting or to advise the meeting on specific subjects.
Article 11 EXPENSES Each party shall cover all expenses it incurs in hosting or taking part in meetings and the work of the Joint Committee, the working parties and groups of experts.
Article 12 CONFIDENTIALITY AND INFORMATION The deliberations at the meetings and the documents of the Joint Committee shall be confidential, subject to the legal obligations of the parties regarding the publication of decisions and recommendations and the access to documents.
Article 13 LANGUAGES Recommendations and decisions of the Joint Committee shall be drawn up in the official languages of the European Community and the Principality of Monaco.
