The proposed changes in Community legislation on AI control should be made in parallel with amendments to Council Decision 90/424/EEC on Community expenditure in the veterinary field, to bring it in line with this proposal and ensure adequate financial support to the Member States (MSs) in relation to some of the newly envisaged control measures. ( General context AI is a serious, highly contagious disease of poultry and other birds caused by different types of viruses included in the very large virus family called Influenzaviridae .
Decision 90/424/EEC on expenditure in the veterinary field establishes that MSs may receive a financial contribution from the Community for some of the measures implemented to control and eradicate AI (HPAI). ( Consistency with other policies Since live poultry is listed in Annex I of the Treaty, one of the Community's tasks in the veterinary field is to improve the health status of poultry, thereby facilitating trade in poultry and poultry products to ensure the development of this sector.
Consultation of interested parties and impact assessment ( Consultation of interested parties Consultation with MSs in working groups and in electronic exchange on a draft proposal has taken place in July/October 2004.
Furthermore, a high level of human health protection is to be ensured when defining and implementing Community policies and activities. (3) Community measures for the control of avian influenza were established by Council Directive 92/40/EEC of 19 May 1992 introducing Community measures for the control of avian influenza[6], in order to ensure the protection of animal health and contribute to the development of the poultry sector. (4) The measures laid down in Directive 92/40/EEC should be fundamentally reviewed in the light of recent scientific knowledge on the risks of avian influenza for animal and public health, development of new laboratory tests and vaccines and the lessons learnt during recent outbreaks of this disease in the Community as well as in third countries. (5) The new Community measures should also take account of the most recent opinions delivered by the Scientific Committee on Animal Health and Animal Welfare and the changes in the Terrestrial Animal Health Code and the Manual of Diagnostic Tests and Vaccines for Terrestrial Animals of the World Organization for Animal Health (O.I.E.) on avian influenza. (6) Influenza viruses include a large number of different virus strains.
Avian influenza viruses may also affect humans and may pose a serious risk to public health. (8) Current knowledge indicates that the health risks posed by the so-called low pathogenic avian influenza viruses are inferior to the one posed by highly pathogenic avian influenza viruses, which originate from a mutation of certain low pathogenic viruses. (9) Community legislation for the control of avian influenza should give the possibility for the Member States to adopt disease control measures in a proportionate and flexible manner, taking into account the various levels of risk posed by different virus strains, the likely social and economic impact of the measures in question on the agriculture sector and other sectors involved while at the same time ensuring that the measures taken for each specific disease scenario are the most appropriate. (10) With a view to preventing and anticipating the public health problems which may be posed by avian influenza, effective communication and close co-operation should be sought between the animal and public health services in the Member States, so that appropriate measures to safeguard human health can also be taken by the competent authorities, whenever necessary. (11) In view of the potential of low pathogenic avian influenza viruses to mutate into highly pathogenic avian influenza viruses, provision should be made for the early detection of infection in poultry aimed at a quick reaction and the adoption of appropriate measures which should include a system of active surveillance to be carried out by Member States.
Those penalties must be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. (27) Provision should be made for the possibility for amendments to be made to the Annexes to this Directive when necessary without delay in order to take account of developments in scientific and technical knowledge. (28) Taking into account the unpredictability of influenza viruses, it is necessary to ensure that a swift procedure is also in place for a rapid adoption at Community level of additional or more specific measures to control any infection of poultry, other birds or other animals caused by any avian influenza viruses posing a serious threat to animal or public health, whenever such measures are necessary. (29) This Directive sets out the minimum control measures to be applied in the event of an outbreak of avian influenza in poultry and other birds.
Article 3 Other Definitions For the purpose of this Directive , the following definitions shall apply: 1. ‘poultry’ means all birds that are reared or kept in captivity for the production of meat, hatching eggs and eggs for consumption, the production of other commercial products, for restocking supplies of game or for breeding these categories of birds; 2. ‘wild bird’ means a free-living bird which is not kept on any holding as defined in point 5; 3. ‘other bird’ means any bird other than poultry that is kept in captivity for shows, races, exhibitions and competition, such as ornamental birds and racing pigeons, or for any reason other than those referred to in point 1; 4. ‘officially registered rare breeds of poultry or other birds’ means any poultry or other birds that the competent authority has officially recognised as such within their contingency plan provided for in Article 63; 5. ‘holding’ means any agricultural or other premises, such as hatcheries, circuses, zoos, pet bird shops, bird markets, and aviaries, where poultry or other birds are being bred or kept on a permanent or temporary basis, except: (a) slaughterhouses, means of transport, quarantine facilities and centres, border inspection posts and laboratories; and (b) living areas for humans on such premises for the purposes of the second subparagraph of Article11(9), point (e) of Article 19, point (f) of Article 30, point (g) of Article 39 (5) and point (h) of Article 44 (1) unless poultry or other birds are kept on a permanent basis therein; 6. ‘commercial poultry holding’ means a holding where poultry is kept for commercial purposes; 7. ‘non-commercial holding/pet bird holding’ mean a holding where poultry or other birds are kept by their owners: (a) for their own consumption of the poultry or other birds or their products; or (b) as pets; 8. ‘poultry compartment’ or ‘other birds compartment’ means one or more poultry holdings or other birds holdings under a common biosecurity management system containing a poultry or other birds sub-population with a distinct health status with respect to avian influenza subjected to appropriate surveillance, control and biosecurity measures; 9. ‘flock’ means all poultry or other birds within a single production unit; 10. ‘production unit’ means a unit in a holding where the official veterinarian is satisfied that it is completely independent of any other unit in the same holding in terms of its location and day-to-day management of the poultry or other birds kept there, 11. ‘ready-to-lay-poultry’ means poultry prior to the laying stage; 12. 'hatching eggs' means eggs for incubation, laid by poultry; 13. 'day-old chicks' means all poultry less than 72 hours old, not yet fed; however, muscovy ducks (Cairina moschata) or their crosses may be fed; 14. ‘diagnostic manual’ means the diagnostic manual provided for in Article 51(1); 15. ‘infected poultry’ and ‘infected other birds’ means any poultry or other birds: (a) in which the presence of avian influenza has been confirmed in accordance with the diagnostic manual; or (b) in the case of second and subsequent outbreaks of avian influenza, any poultry or other birds in which clinical signs, post-mortem lesions or reactions to laboratory tests carried out in laboratories approved in accordance with the first subparagraph of Article 51 (3) (‘approved laboratory') are consistent with the diagnosis of avian influenza in accordance with the diagnostic manual; 16. ‘poultry or other birds suspected of being infected’ means any poultry or other birds exhibiting clinical signs or showing post-mortem lesions or reactions to laboratory tests which are such that the presence of avian influenza cannot be excluded; 17. ‘incubation period’ means a maximum period of 21 days that takes place between the probable date of infection and the occurrence of clinical signs of avian influenza; 18. ‘owner’ means any natural or legal person who owns or keeps or who is otherwise responsible for poultry or other birds, whether or not for financial reward; 19. ‘competent authority’ means the authority of a Member State competent to carry out veterinary checks or administrative action in accordance with this Directive or any authority to which such competence has been delegated; 20. 'veterinary check' means any physical check and/or administrative formality carried out by the competent authority; 21. ‘official veterinarian’ means the veterinarian designated by the competent authority; 22. ‘official surveillance’ means the action of careful watching of a health situation concerning avian influenza by the competent authority which may lead to further investigations by it; 23. ‘official supervision’ means the actions taken by the competent authority to check and verify that a person is complying with or has complied with the instructions concerning avian influenza received from that authority; 24. ‘killing’ means any procedure other than slaughter causing the death of an animal or bird; 25. ‘slaughter’ means any procedure causing the death of an animal or bird by bleeding; 26. ‘disposing of’ means the act of collecting, transporting, storing, handling, processing and using or disposing of animal by-products in accordance with: (a) Regulation (EC) No 1774/2002; or (b) the detailed rules provided for in Article 64(1)of this Directive; 27. ‘Community vaccine bank’ means appropriate premises designated in accordance with Article 59(1) of this Directive for the storage of Community reserves of avian influenza vaccines authorised in accordance with Directive 2001/82/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council[14] and Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council[15]; 28. ‘contact holding’ means a holding where avian influenza could have been introduced as a result of its location, the movement of persons, poultry or other birds, vehicles or in any other way; 29. ‘suspected outbreak’ means a holding containing poultry or other birds where the competent authority suspects the presence of avian influenza; 30. ‘outbreak’ means a holding, where avian influenza has been confirmed by the competent authority; 31. ‘primary outbreak’ means an outbreak not epidemiologically linked with a previous outbreak in the same region of a Member State, as defined in Article 2 of Council Directive 64/432/EEC[16], or the first outbreak in a different region of the same Member State; 32. ‘differentiating infected from vaccinated animal (DIVA strategy)’ means a vaccination strategy which enables the differentiation between vaccinated/infected and vaccinated/non-infected animals through the application of a diagnostic test designed to detect antibodies against the field virus and the use of non-vaccinated sentinel birds; 33. ‘depopulation’ means the removal of all poultry or other birds from a holding, a poultry compartment or other birds compartment, or a production unit; 34. ‘mammal’ means an animal of the class Mammalia ; 35. ‘carcasses’ means poultry or other birds which have died or have been killed.
CHAPTER II SURVEILLANCE, NOTIFICATIONS AND EPIDIOMIOLOGICAL INQUIRIES Article 4 Annual surveillance programmes 1.
Member States shall ensure that surveillance programmes complying with Annex I are adopted each year in order to: (a) detect the prevalence of infections with avian influenza virus subtypes H5 and H7 in different species of poultry (b) contribute to the knowledge on the threats posed by wildlife in relation to any influenza virus in birds of avian origin. 2.
Member States shall submit the annual surveillance programmes to the Commission for approval by 15 June 2007 and thereafter by 15 June each year in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 65(2). 3.
Member States shall report to the Commission each year on the implementation of the annual surveillance programmes by 15 March of the year following implementation.
In addition to the requirements provided for in Community legislation on notification of outbreaks of animal diseases, Member States shall notify the Commission in accordance with Annex II of: (a) any positive findings of avian influenza which are confirmed by the competent authority in slaughterhouses, means of transport, border inspection posts, and other places at Community borders and quarantine facilities or centers operating in accordance with Community legislation on imports of poultry or other birds; (b) the results of any official surveillance for avian influenza carried out in poultry, other birds or other animals, including positive findings in wild birds; and (c) any infection of poultry, other birds or other animals caused by any influenza virus of avian origin other than those referred to in point 1 of Article 2 which may pose a serious threat to animal or public health.
Article 6 Epidemiological inquiry 1.
CHAPTER III MEASURES TO BE APPLIED IN CASES OF SUSPECTED OUTBREAKS Article 7 Measures to be applied on holdings 1.
The competent authority shall ensure that an epidemiological inquiry is carried out in accordance with Article 6 (‘the epidemiological inquiry’).
Article 8 Derogations from certain measures to be applied on holdings The competent authority may grant derogations from the measures provided for in points (c) to (f) of Article 7(2) on the basis of a risk assessment and taking into account the precautions taken and the destination of the birds and products to be moved.
Article 9 Duration of the measures to be applied on holdings The measures to be applied on holdings in cases of suspected outbreaks, as provided for in Article 7, shall continue to be applied until the presence of avian influenza has been excluded by the competent authority.
Article 10 Additional measures based on the epidemiological inquiry 1.
CHAPTER IV MEASURES TO BE APPLIED IN CASES OF AN OUTBREAK OF HIGHLY PATHOGENIC AVIAN INFLUENZA (HPAI) SECTION 1 MEASURES TO BE APPLIED ON HOLDINGS Article 11 Measures to be applied by the competent authority 1.
Poultry already hatched from eggs collected from the holding during the period between the probable date of introduction of HPAI on the holding and the application of the measures provided for in Article 7(2), shall be placed under official supervision and investigations shall be carried out in accordance with the diagnostic manual. 5.
However, the competent authority may grant authorisations for table eggs to be sent directly to an establishment for the manufacture of egg products as set out in Chapter II of Section X of Annex III to Regulation (EC) No 853/2004 and to be handled and treated in accordance with Chapter XI of Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 852/2004.
Article 12 Derogations from certain measures to be applied on holdings 1.
Member States shall draw up detailed rules for granting derogations, as provided for in Articles 13 and 14, including alternative appropriate measures and conditions. 2.
Member States shall immediately notify the Commission of any derogation granted in accordance with Article 13(1) and Article 14. 3.
SECTION 2 MEASURES TO BE APPLIED IN SEPARATE PRODUCTION UNITS AND CONTACT HOLDINGS Article 14 Measures to be applied in cases of outbreaks of HPAI in separate production units In cases of an outbreak of HPAI in a holding which consists of two or more separate production units, the competent authority may grant derogations from the measures provided for in the firs subparagraph of Article 11(2) for production units containing healthy poultry provided that such derogations do not endanger disease control measures and basic Community interests.
Article 15 Measures to be applied in contact holdings 1.
Based on the epidemiological inquiry, the competent authority shall apply the measures provided for in Article 11 to contact holdings and in particular if the contact holding is located in an area with a high density of poultry.
The main criteria to be considered for the application of the measures provided for in Article 11 in contact holdings are set out in Annex IV. 3.
Immediately following an outbreak of HPAI, the competent authority shall establish: (a) a protection zone with a radius of at least three kilometres around the holding; (b) a surveillance zone with a radius of at least 10 kilometres around the holding, including the protection zone. 2.
Article 17 Measures to be applied in the protection and surveillance zones 1.
Article 20 Prohibition on the removal or spreading of used litter or manure from holdings The competent authority shall ensure that the removal or spreading of used litter or manure from holdings in protection zones are prohibited, unless authorised by it.
Article 21 Fairs, markets or other gatherings and restocking of game The competent authority shall ensure that fairs, markets, shows or other gatherings of poultry or other birds are prohibited in protection zones.
Article 22 Prohibition on the movement and transport of poultry and other birds and eggs The competent authority shall ensure that within protection zones, the movement and transport on roads, excluding private service roads of holdings, or by rail, of poultry and other birds, ready-to-lay poultry, day-old chicks, hatching and table eggs and carcasses are prohibited.
Article 24 Derogations for the direct transport of day-old-chicks 1.
Article 26 Derogation for the direct transport of hatching and table eggs 1.
By way of derogation from Article 22, the competent authority may authorise the direct transport of table eggs to a packing centre designated by the competent authority (‘the designated packing centre’), provided that they are packed in disposable packaging and that all biosecurity measures required by the competent authority are applied.
Article 28 Cleansing and disinfecting of means of transport 1.
Article 29 Duration of measures 1.
SECTION 6 MEASURES TO BE APPLIED IN FURTHER RESTICTED ZONES Article 32 Measures to be applied in further restricted zones 1.
Member States applying the measures provided for in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall immediately informthe Commission thereof. 4.
SECTION 7 DEROGATIONS AND BIOSECURITY MEASURES Article 33 Derogations 1.
The competent authority may grant derogations from the measures provided for in points (b) and (c) of Article 18, Article 22 and points (b), (c) and (f) of Article 30 in cases of an outbreak of HPAI in a non-commercial holding/pet bird holding, a circus, a zoo, a wild life park, a fenced area where poultry or other birds are kept for scientific purposes or purposes related to the conservation of endangered species or officially registered rare breeds of poultry or other birds. 3.
The derogations provided for in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 shall only be granted provided that such derogations do not endanger disease control and basic Community interests. 5.
Member States granting derogations provided for in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 shall immediately inform the Commission thereof. 6.
The Commission shall in all cases review the situation with the Member State concerned and in the Committee as soon as possible.
Taking account of any derogation granted, as provided for in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, measures to prevent the spread of avian influenza may be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 65 (3).
Article 34 Biosecurity measures 1.
Member States which adopt measures, as provided for in paragraph 1, shall immediately inform the Commission thereof. 3.
Without prejudice to decisions to be adopted pursuant to Decision 90/424/EEC, further surveillance, biosecurity and control measures to prevent the spread of avian influenza may be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 65 (3).
Article 36 Measures to be applied in slaughterhouses 1.
Where the poultry is slaughtered, their meat shall be kept separately under official supervision until further investigations to confirm or exclude the presence of HPAI are completed, in addition to the investigations provided for in Article 35. 2.
Article 37 Measures to be applied in border inspection posts or means of transport 1.
Where the poultry is slaughtered, their meat shall be kept separately under official supervision until further investigations to confirm or exclude the presence of HPAI are completed, in addition to the investigations provided for in Article 35. 2.
Article 38 Additional Measures to be applied to slaughterhouses, border inspection posts or means of transport The competent authority shall ensure that the following additional measures are applied where HPAI is suspected or confirmed in a slaughterhouse, border inspection post or means of transport: (a) no poultry or other birds are introduced into the slaughterhouse, the border inspection post or the means of transport until at least 24 hours after the cleansing and disinfection as provided for in point (b) are completed in accordance with Article 49; in the case of border inspection posts, the prohibition on introduction may be extended to other animals; (b) the cleansing and disinfection of buildings, equipment and vehicles takes place under the supervision of the official veterinarian in accordance with Article 49; (c) an epidemiological inquiry is carried out; (d) the measures provided for in Article 7(2) are applied in the holding of origin of the infected poultry or carcasses and in contact holdings; (e) unless otherwise indicated by the epidemiological inquiry and the further investigations, as provided for in Article 35, the measures provided for in Article 11 are applied in the holding of origin; (f) the avian influenza virus isolate is subjected to the laboratory procedure in order to identify the subtype of the virus, in accordance with the diagnostic manual.
CHAPTER V MEASURES TO BE APPLIED IN CASES OF AN OUTBREAK OF LOW PATHOGENIC AVIAN INFLUENZA (LPAI) section 1 MEASURES TO BE APPLIED ON HOLDINGS Article 39 Measures to be applied by the competent authority 1.
Member States applying the measures provided for in paragraphs 2, 4 and 5 shall inform the Commission thereof.
Article 40 Derogations for certain premises 1.
Member States shall immediately inform the Commission of any derogation granted in accordance with paragraphs 1 and 3. 6.
Taking account of any derogation granted, as provided for in paragraph 1, measures to prevent the spread of avian influenza may be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 65 (3).
Member States shall immediately inform the Commission of any derogations granted in accordance with paragraph 1. 4.
Taking account of any derogation granted, as provided for in paragraph 1, measures to prevent the spread of avian influenza may be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 67(3).
Article 42 Measures to be applied in contact holdings 1.
Based on the epidemiological inquiry, the competent authority shall apply the measures provided for in Article 39 to contact holdings and in particular if the contact holding is located in an area with a high density of poultry.
The main criteria to be considered for the application of the measures provided for in Article 39 in contact holdings are set out in Annex IV. 3.
Article 44 Measures to be applied in the restricted zone 1.
Taking account of the measures referred to in paragraph 2, further measures may be adopted to prevent the spread of avian influenza in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 65(3).
Article 45 Duration of measures The measures provided for in this Section shall be maintained either: (a) at least 21 days following the date of completion of preliminary cleansing and disinfection of the infected holding in accordance with Article 49 and until the competent authorities, based on the investigations and laboratory tests carried out in the restricted zone in accordance with the diagnostic manual and a risk assessment, consider that the risk of spread of LPAI is negligible; or (b) at least 42 days following the date of confirmation of the outbreak and until the competent authorities, based on the investigations and laboratory tests carried out in the restricted zone in accordance with the diagnostic manual and a risk assessment, consider that the risk of spread of LPAI is negligible.
Article 46 Derogations 1.
Where LPAI is confirmed in a hatchery, the competent authority may, based on a risk assessment, derogate from some or all of the measures provided for in Articles 43 and 44. 2.
Member States granting the derogation provided for in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall immediately inform the Commission thereof. 4.
Taking account of any derogation granted, as provided for in paragraphs 1 and 2, measures to prevent the spread of avian influenza may be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 65(3).
CHAPTER VI MEASURES CONCERNING PUBLIC HEALTH AND ANIMALS OTHER THAN POULTRY OR OTHER BIRDS Article 47 Public health measures 1.
Where a risk to public health is identified, as referred to in paragraph 1, the Member State concerned shall immediately inform the Commission and the other Member States thereof. 3.
Additional animal health measures to prevent the spread of avian influenza from poultry, other birds or mammals to humans may be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred in Article 65 (3).
Article 48 Laboratory tests and other measures concerning pigs and other animals 1.
Additional measures to prevent the spread of avian influenza in pigs and other animals, may be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 65 (3) 7.
Member States shall ensure that paragraphs 2 to 6 of this Article are complied with, following the application of the measures provided for in Articles 11 and 39. 2.
The re-population of poultry in a commercial poultry holding shall not take place for a period of 21 days following the date of completion of the final cleansing and disinfection as provided for in Article 49. 3.
The re-repopulation of poultry in contact holdings shall take place in accordance with the instructions of the competent authority. 6.
CHAPTER VIII DIAGNOSTIC PROCEDURES, DIAGNOSTIC MANUAL AND REFERENCE LABORATORIES Article 51 Diagnostic procedures and diagnostic manual 1.
Article 52 Reference laboratories 1.
The laboratory set out in Annex VII shall be the Community reference laboratory for avian influenza (‘the Community reference laboratory’).
Without prejudice to Decision 90/424/EEC, the Community reference laboratory shall carry out the functions and duties listed in Part 2 of that Annex. 2.
Member States shall ensure that the national reference laboratories: (a) carry out the functions and duties set out in Part 2 of Annex VIII; (b) are responsible for co-ordinating standards and methods of diagnosis in each Member State in accordance with Annex VIII and liasing with the Community reference laboratory.
CHAPTER IX VACCINATION SECTION 1 GENERAL PROHIBITION OF VACCINATION Article 53 Manufacture, sale and use of avian influenza vaccines 1.
Member States shall ensure that: (a) vaccination against avian influenza is prohibited on their territory, except as provided for in Sections 2 and 3; (b) the handling, manufacture, storage, supply, distribution and sale of avian influenza vaccines on their territory are carried out under official supervision; (c) only vaccines authorised in accordance with Directive 2001/82/EC and Regulation No 726/2004 are used. 2.
SECTION 2 EMERGENCY VACCINATION Article 54 Emergency vaccination in poultry or other birds 1.
Detailed rules for emergency vaccination may be established in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 65 (2).
Article 55 Approval of emergency vaccination plans 1.
The Commission shall immediately examine the emergency vaccination plan, as provided for in Article 54(2), together with the Member State concerned and shall review the situation in the Committee as soon as possible. 2.
The emergency vaccination plan shall be approved in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 65(3).
Article 56 Derogations 1.
By way of derogation from Article 54, Member States may apply emergency vaccination around the outbreak before approval of the emergency vaccination plan, subject to the following conditions: (a) the emergency vaccination plan and the decision to apply emergency vaccination are notified to the Commission before the commencement of the emergency vaccination; (b) the Member State concerned applies the general requirements for movements of poultry and poultry products set out in Annex IX; (c) the decision to apply emergency vaccination does not endanger disease control and basic Community interests. 2.
Additional measures may be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 65 (3).
SECTION 3 PROTECTIVE VACCINATION Article 57 Protective vaccination in poultry or other birds 1.
Detailed rules for protective vaccination may be established in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 65(2).
Article 58 Approval of protective vaccination plan 1.
The Commission shall immediately examine the protective vaccination plan provided for in Article 57(2), together with the Member State concerned and shall review the situation in the Committee as soon as possible. 2.
The protective vaccination plan shall be approved in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 65(3).
SECTION 4 VACCINE BANKS Article 59 Community vaccine bank 1.
A Community vaccine bank may be established in accordance with the procedure referred in Article 65(2). 2.
Article 60 National vaccine banks 1.
Member States may, within the framework of the contingency plan provided for in Article 63, establish or maintain a national vaccine bank for storage of reserves of avian influenza vaccines authorised in accordance with Article 5 to Article 15 of Directive 2001/82/EC, to be used for emergency or protective vaccination. 2.
Member States maintaining a national vaccine bank shall inform the Commission of the quantities and types of the stored vaccines.
CHAPTER X COMMUNITY CONTROLS, PENALTIES AND CONTINGENCY PLANS Article 61 Community controls Commission experts may make on-the-spot checks in cooperation with the competent authority, in so far as it is necessary to ensure uniform application of this Directive in accordance with Commission Decision 98/139/EC[19] and Article 45 of Regulation (EC) No 882/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council[20].
Article 62 Penalties Member States shall lay down the rules on penalties applicable to infringements of national provisions adopted pursuant to this Directive and shall take all measures necessary to ensure that they are implemented.
The Member States shall notify those provisions to the Commission by 31 December 2006 at the latest and shall notify it without delay of any subsequent amendment affecting them.
Article 63 Contingency plans 1.
Member States shall draw up a contingency plan in accordance with Annex X specifying the national measures to be implemented in the event of an outbreak and submit that plan to the Commission for approval. 2.
The contingency plans shall be approved in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 65(2).
Member State shall update the contingency plan at least every five year and submit it to the Commission for approval in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 65(2). 5.
CHAPTER XI IMPLEMENATING POWERS AND COMMITTEE PROCEDURE Article 64 Implementing powers 1.
Without prejudice to the safeguard measures provided for in Article 9 of Council Directive 89/662/EEC[21] or Article 10 of Council Directive 90/425/EEC[22], temporary emergency measures required due to a serious health threat caused by influenza viruses of avian origin other than those referred to in point 1 of Article 2, shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 65(3).
Article 65 Committee procedure 1.
CHAPTER XII TRANSITIONAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS Article 66 Repeals Directive 92/40/EEC is repealed as from 31 December 2006.
Article 67 Transitional provisions 1.
Contingency plans for the control of avian influenza approved in accordance with Article 17(4) of Directive 92/40/EEC and in force at 31 December 2006 shall continue to apply for the purpose of this Directive.
However, before 31 December 2006 Member States shall submit to the Commission amendments to those contingency plans, to bring them in line with this Directive.
Those amended plans shall be approved in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 65(2). 2.
Article 69 Entry into force This Directive shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union .
Article 70 Addressees This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Table 1: Number of holdings to be sampled of each poultry category (except turkey holdings) Number of holdings per poultry category (except turkey holdings) | Number of holdings to be sampled | Up to 34 | All | 35-50 | 35 | 51-80 | 42 | 81-250 | 53 | %lt%250 | 60 | Table 2: Number of turkey holdings to be sampled Number of turkey holdings | Number of holdings to be sampled | Up to 46 | All | 47-60 | 47 | 61-100 | 59 | 101-350 | 80 | %lt%350 | 90 | B.
ANNEX II as referred to in Article 5(2) NOTIFICATION OF DISEASE AND FURTHER EPIDEMIOLOGICAL INFORMATION TO BE PROVIDED BY THE MEMBER STATES 1.
The Member State concerned shall ensure that the information to be provided in accordance with paragraph 1, 2 and 3, in relation to any outbreak or positive finding of avian influenza in a slaughterhouse or means of transport is followed as soon as possible by a written report to the Commission and the other Member States including at least: (a) the date on which the poultry or other birds on the holding, slaughterhouse or means of transport were killed and their carcasses disposed of or slaughtered; (b) any information relating to the possible origin of that disease or, if ascertained, its actual origin; (c) information on the control system established to ensure that the measures in place for the control of animal movements are effectively implemented; (d) in the case of detection of avian influenza in a slaughterhouse or means of transport, the genetic type of virus responsible; (e) where poultry or other birds have been killed or slaughtered in contact holdings or in holdings containing poultry or other birds suspected of being infected with avian influenza virus, information on: (i) the date of killing or slaughtering and the number of poultry or other birds of each category killed or slaughtered in each holding; (ii) the epidemiological link between the source of infection and each contact holding or the other reasons that have induced the suspicion that avian influenza is present in each suspected holding; (iii) where poultry or other birds in contact holdings have not been killed or slaughtered, information must be provided concerning the reasons for the decision not to kill or slaughter them. 5.
However, the Commission and the other Member States must be notified within 24 hours where a serious animal or public health threat is identified due to the surveillance. 7.
However, the Commission and the other Member States must be notified within 24 hours where a serious animal or public health threat is identified due to the testing.
ANNEX VII as referred to in Article 52 (1) COMMUNITY REFERENCE LABORATORY FOR AVIAN INFLUENZA 1.
ANNEX VIII as referred to in Article 52(2 LIST OF NATIONAL REFERENCE LABORATORIES FOR AVIAN INFLUENZA AND THEIR FUNCTIONS AND DUTIES 1.
The national reference laboratories for avian influenza are as follows: Belgium %amp% Luxembourg: Centrum voor Onderzoek in Diergeneeskunde en Agrochemie (CODA) Centre d’Etudes et de Recherches Vétérinaires et Agrochimiques, (CERVA) Groeselenbergstraat 99/ 99, Rue Groeselenberg B-1180 Brussel/Bruxelles Czech Republic: National Reference Laboratory for Newcastle Disease and highly pathogenic Avian Influenza, Statni veterinarni ustav Praha Sidlistni 136/24 165 03 Praha 6-Lysolaje Denmark: Statens Veterinære Serumlaboratorium Hangøvej 2 DK-8200 Århus N.
Germany: Friedrich-Löffler-Institut, Bundesforschungsanstalt für Tiergesundheit (FLI) Boddenblick 5a D-17493 Greifswald - Insel Riems Estonia: Estonian Veterinary and Food Laboratory, Tallinn laboratory Väike-Paala 3 11415 Tallinn Greece: National Reference Laboratory, (NRL) Center of Veterinary Institutes 80, 26th October Str GR-54627 Thessaloniki Spain: Laboratorio Central de Veterinaria (L.C.V.) Carretera de Algete, Km. 8 E-28110 Algete, Madrid France: Laboratoire d'Etudes de Recherches Avicoles et Porcines B.P. 53, AFFSA Ploufragan (Agence Française de Securité Sanitaire des Aliments) F-22440 Ploufragan Ireland: Poultry Virology, Veterinary Research Laboratory Abbotstown, Castleknock Dublin 15 Italy%amp% San Marino: Istituto Zooprofilattico Sperimentale delle Venezie (IZS-VE) Via Romea 14/A I-35020-Legnaro – Padova Cyprus: Veterinary Services, National Reference Laboratory for Newcastle Disease and Avian Influenza 1417 Nicosia Latvia: State Veterinary Medicine Diagnostic Centre (SVMDC) Lejupes str. 3 LV-1076 Riga Lithuania: National Veterinary Laboratory J.Kairiukscio 10 LT-2021 Vilnius Hungary: Central Veterinary Institute Tábornok u.2 149 Budapest Malta: Food and Veterinary Division Laboratory Civil Abbatoir Albertown Netherlands: CIDC-Lelystad, Central Institute for Animal Disease Control, Lelystad Postbox 2004 NL-8203 AA Lelystad Austria: Österreichische Agentur für Gesundheit und Ernährungssicherheit (AGES) Veterinärmedizinische Untersuchungen Mödling, Robert Koch Gasse 17 A-2340 Mödling Poland: State Veterinary Institute in Puławy- Poultry Disease Department Al.
Partyzantów 57 24-100 Puławy Portugal: Laboratório Nacional de Investigação Veterinária (LNIV) Estrada de Bemfica 701 P-1549-011 Lisboa Slovenia: National Veterinary Laboratory Gerbiceva 60 1000 Ljubljana Slovakia: State Veterinary Institute, Reference Laboratory for Newcastle Disease and Avian influenza Pod Dráhami 918 96086 Zvolen Finland: Eläinlääkintä ja elintarviketutkimuslaitos (EELA) Helsinki, Anstalten för veterinärmedicin och livsmedel Helsingfors PL 45 FIN-00581 Helsinki Sweden: Statens Veterinärmedicinska Anstalt Uppsala (SVA) S-75189 Uppsala United Kingdom: Veterinary Laboratory Agency (VLA) Weybridge Avian Virology, Woodham Lane New Haw, Addlestone Surrey KT 15 3NB Disease Surveillance and Investigation Department Veterinary Sciences Division Soney Road Belfast BT4 3SD 2.
ANNEX IX as referred in point (g) of Article 54 (2) and point (b) of Article 56 (1) GENERAL REQUIREMENTS ON MOVEMENTS OF POULTRY AND POULTRY PRODUCTS APPLICABLE IN RELATION TO EMERGENCY VACCINATION 1.
Member States shall ensure that movement controls of poultry and birds vaccinated in accordance with Articles 54 and 56 and of their products are applied as set out in paragraphs 2 to 7. 2.
For movements of live poultry, hatching and table eggs within the vaccination area the following provisions shall apply: (a) hatching eggs shall: (i) originate from a vaccinated or unvaccinated breeding flock which has been regularly examined, with favourable results, in accordance with the monitoring provided for in point (j) of Article 54(2); (ii) have been disinfected before dispatch in accordance with a method approved by the competent authority; (iii) be transported directly to the hatchery of destination in disposable packaging or materials that can be effectively washed and disinfected; (iv) be traced-back in the hatchery; (b) day-old chicks shall: (i) originate from hatching eggs satisfying the conditions set out in (a); (ii) be transported in disposable packaging or materials that can be effectively washed and disinfected: (iii) be placed in a poultry house or shed where: - no poultry has been kept for at least three weeks; and - cleansing and disinfection have been carried out in accordance with the instructions of the competent authority; (c) ready-to-lay poultry shall: (i) have been regularly vaccinated against avian influenza, if provided for in the vaccination programme; (ii) have been regularly examined, with favourable results, in accordance with the monitoring provided for in point (j) of Article 54 (2); (iii) be placed in a poultry house or shed where no poultry has been kept for at least three weeks, and where cleansing and disinfection has been carried out; (d) poultry for slaughter shall: (i) be examined with favourable results before loading in accordance with the monitoring provided for in point (j) of Article 54 (2); (ii) be sent directly to a slaughterhouse for immediate slaughter; (iii) be transported in vehicles cleansed and disinfected under official supervision before and after each transport; (e) table eggs shall: (i) originate from a vaccinated or non-vaccinated layer flock which has been regularly examined, with favourable results, in accordance with the monitoring provided for in point (j) of Article 54 (2); (ii) be sent directly to a packaging centre or a thermal-treatment plant; (iii) be transported using disposable packaging material or materials that can be effectively washed and disinfected. 3.
For movements of live poultry, hatching and table eggs originating and coming from the vaccination area towards outside the vaccination area the following provisions shall apply: (a) hatching eggs shall: (i) originate from a vaccinated or unvaccinated breeding flock which has been regularly examined, with favourable results, in accordance with the monitoring provided for in point (j) of Article54(2) ; (ii) have been disinfected before dispatch in accordance with a method approved by the competent authority; (iii) be transported directly to the hatchery of destination in disposable packaging or materials that can be effectively washed and disinfected; (iv) be traced-back in the hatchery; (b) day-old chicks shall: (i) originate from hatching eggs satisfying the conditions set out in point (a) of paragraph 2, point (a) of paragraph 3 or point (a) of paragraph 4; (ii) be transported in disposable packaging material, (iii) be placed in a poultry house or shed where: - no poultry has been kept for at least three weeks; and - cleansing and disinfection have been carried out in accordance with the instructions of the competent authority; (c) ready-to-lay poultry shall: (i) not have been vaccinated; (ii) have been regularly examined with favourable results, in accordance with the monitoring provided for in point (j) of Article 54(2); (iii) be placed in a poultry-house or shed where no poultry has been kept for at least three weeks, and where cleansing and disinfection has been carried out; (d) poultry for slaughter shall: (i) be examined before loading with favourable results, in accordance with the monitoring provided for in point (j) of Article54(2) (ii) be sent directly to a slaughterhouse for immediate slaughter; (iii) be transported in vehicles cleansed and disinfected under official supervision before and after each transport; (e) table eggs shall: (i) originate from a vaccinated or non-vaccinated layer flock which has been regularly examined, with favourable results, in accordance with the monitoring provided for in point (j) of Article54(2); (ii) be sent directly to a packing centre or a thermal-treatment plant; (iii) be transported using disposable packaging or packaging material which can be effectively washed and disinfected. 5.
For meat obtained from poultry kept within the vaccination area the following provisions shall apply: (a) for meat obtained from vaccinated poultry, the poultry shall: (i) have been vaccinated with a heterologous subtype vaccine, (ii) have been regularly inspected and tested with negative results in accordance with the provisions in the vaccination programme, in the framework of a DIVA strategy, (iii) have been clinically inspected by an official veterinarian within 48 hours before loading; sentinel birds shall have been inspected with particular attention, (iv) have been sent directly to a designated slaughterhouse for immediate slaughter; (b) for meat obtained from non-vaccinated poultry, the poultry must undergo monitoring in accordance with the monitoring provided for in point (j) of Article 54(2). 6.
Each local disease control centre must be able to contact rapidly persons and organisations which are directly or indirectly involved in an outbreak, s. 5.
ANNEX XI CORRELATION TABLE This Directive | Directive 92/40 EEC | Article 1 (1)(a),(c) | - | Article 1 (1)(b) | Article 1, first subparagraph | Article 1 (2) | - | Article 1 (3) | Article 1, second subparagraph | Article 2 (1) | Annex III, third subparagraph | Article 2 (2),(3) | - | Article 3 (1) to (l4), (17), (18), (20), (22) to (33) | - | Article 3 (15) | Article 2 (a) | Article 3 (16) | Article 2 (b) | Article 3 (19) | Article 2 (d)- | Article 3 (21) | Article 2 (e)- | Article 4 | - | Article 5 (1) | Article 3 | Article 5 (2) | - | Article 6 (1) | - | Article 6 (2) | Article 7 (1) | Article 6 (3) and (4) | - | Article 7 (1) | Article 4 (1) | Article 7 (2)(a) and (b) | Article 4 (2)(a) | Article 7 (2)(c) | Article 4 (2)(b) | Article 7 (2)(d) | Article 4 (2)(c) | Article 7 (2)(e) and (g) | Article 4 (2)(d) | Article 7 (2)(f) | Article 4 (2)(e) | Article 7 (2)(h) | Article 4 (2)(f) | Article 7 (3) | Article 4 (2)(g) | Article 8 | - | Article 9 | Article 4 (5) | Article 10 | - | Article 11 (1) | Article 11 (2) and (3) | Article 5 (1)(a) | Article 11 (4) | Article 5 (1)(d) | Article 11 (5) | Article 5 (1)(c) | Article 11 (6),(7) | Article 5 (1)(b) | Article 11 (8) | Article 5 (1)(e) | Article 11 (9) and (10) | - | Article 12 | - | Article 13 | - | Article 14 | Article 6 | Article 15 | Article 8 | Article 16 (1) and (2) | Article 9 (1) | Article 16 (3) | - | Article 16 (4) | Article 9 (6) | Article 17 (1) | Article 10 | Article 17 (2) | Article 13 | Article 18 (a) | Article 9 (2)(a) | Article 18 (b) | Article 9 (2)(b) | Article 18 (c) | - | Article 19 (a) | Article 9 (2)(c) | Article 19 (b),(c) and (d) | Article 9 (2)(d) and (e) | Article 19 (e) | Article 9 (2)(f), first subparagraph | Article 19 (f),(g) and (h) | - | Article 20 | Article 9 (2)(g) | Article 21 | Article 9 (2)(h) | Article 22 | Article 9 (2)(e) | Article 23 | Article 9 (2)(f)(i) | Article 24 | Article 9 (2)(f)(ii) | Article 25 | - | Article 26 (1) | Article 9 (2)(f)(iii) | Article 26 (2) | - | Article 27 | Article 9(2)(e) | Article 28 | - | Article 29 | Article 9 (3) | Article 30 (a) | Article 9 (4)(a) | Article 30 (b),(c) | Article 9 (4)(b),(c) and (d) | Article 30 (d),(e),(g) and (j) | - | Article 30 (f) | Article 9 (4)(b) | Article 30 (h) | Article 9 (4)(e) | Article 30 (i) | Article 9 (4)(f) | Article31 | Article 9 (5) | Article 32 | - | Article 33 | - | Article 34 | - | Article 35 | - | Article 36 | - | Article 37 | - | Article 38 | - | Article 39 | - | Article 40 | - | Article 41 | - | Article 42 | - | Article 43 | - | Article 44 | - | Article 45 | - | Article 46 | - | Article 47 | - | Article 48 | - | Article 49 | Article 11 | Article 50 | - | Article 51 | - | Article 52 (1) | Article 15 | Article 52 (2) and (3) | Article 14 | Article 53 | - | Article 54 | Article 16 (a), first subparagraph | Article 55 | Article 16 (a), first subparagraph | Article 56 | Article 16 (a), second subparagraph | Article 57 | - | Article 58 | - | Article 59 | - | Article 60 | - | Article 61 | Article 18 | Article 62 | - | Article 63 | Article 17 | Article 64 (1),(2) and (4) | - | Article 64 (3) | Article 20 | Article 65 | Article 21 | Article 66 | - | Article 67 | - | Article 68 | -Article 22 | Article 69 | - | Article 70 | Article 23 | Annex I | - | Annex II | - | Annex III | Annex I | Annex IV | - | Annex V | - | Annex VI | Annex II | Annex VII | Annex V | Annex VIII | Annex IV | Annex IX | - | Annex X | Annex VI | Annex XI | - | LEGISLATIVE FINANCIAL STATEMENT Policy area(s): Health and Consumers Protection Activity: Food safety, animal health, animal welfare and plant health | TITLE OF ACTION: PROPOSAL FOR A COUNCIL DIRECTIVE ON COMMUNITY MEASURES FOR THE CONTROL OF AVIAN INFLUENZA | 1.
ANTI-FRAUD MEASURES Not relevant EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM 1.
In October 2004 European NGOs have been consulted on that Draft Proposal.
These figures take into account the costs of the programmes for AI surveillance which have been put in place in the MSs in 2003 and 2004.
Influenza virus of avian origin may also pose a risk for human health. (2) Decision 90/424/EEC[35] on expenditure in the veterinary field provides for the possibility of a financial contribution from the Community to the Member States for the eradication of certain animal diseases.
Article 3 is amended as follows: (a) in paragraph 1, the sixth indent is deleted; (b) in paragraph 2, the first indent is replaced by the following: - ‘the slaughter of animals of susceptible species which are affected or contaminated or suspected of being affected or contaminated, and their destruction, and, in the case of avian influenza, destruction of the eggs,’ (c) paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: ‘If, in view of the development of the situation in the Community, it proves necessary to continue the measures provided for in paragraph 2, a new decision concerning the financial contribution by the Community, which might exceed the figure of 50% laid down in the first indent of paragraph 5, may be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 41.
Done at Brussels For the Council The President LEGISLATIVE FINANCIAL STATEMENT Policy area(s): Health and Consumers Protection Activity: Food safety, animal health, animal welfare and plant health | TITLE OF ACTION: PROPOSAL FOR A COUNCIL DECISION AMENDING COUNCIL DECISION 90/424/EEC ON EXPENDITURE IN THE VETERINARY FIELD | 1.
