Making Europe a more attractive place to invest and work 16 3.2.1.
It is in this spirit of realistic optimism that the new European Commission has put together our policy recommendations for the Mid-Term Review of the Lisbon Strategy – our ambitious agenda for reform launched by the European Council in March 2000.
We have done this by acting in partnership – Europe’s institutions, government and administrations at a national, regional and local level, our social partners, civil society – all moving together towards a common goal.
The past 50 years have seen extraordinary progress, but in a changing world Europe cannot stand still.
The changes proposed to the European Union’s stability and growth pact – the rules at EU level that govern national budgetary policies – should further stabilise our economy, while ensuring that Member States can play a full role in creating conditions for long-term growth.
At a European level, the debate on the future financial framework for the Union up to 2013 (“the Financial Perspectives”) must draw the consequences of our Lisbon ambition, supporting Lisbon priorities within the future EU budget.
II A renewed Lisbon Action Programme A more attractive place to invest and work Extend and deepen the internal market Improve European and national regulation Ensuring open and competitive markets inside and outside Europe Expand and improve European Infrastructure | We must extend and deepen the internal market.
In a number of Member States, key markets like telecoms, energy and transport are open only on paper – long after the expiry of the deadlines to which those Member States have signed up. | Key reforms are still needed to complete the single market and should be given specific attention: financial services markets, as well as services in general, the REACH proposal, a common consolidated corporate tax base as well as the Community Patent. | The regulatory climate must improve.
The Union will press hard for completion and implementation of the Doha Development Round, as well as progress on other bilateral and regional economic relationships. | Knowledge and innovation for growth Increase and improve investment in Research and Development Faciliate innovation, the uptake of ICT and the sustainable use of resources Contribute to a strong European industrial base | Public authorities at all levels in the Member States must work to support innovation, making a reality of our vision of a knowledge society.
The first of these should start to appear in 2007 once the next Research Framework Programme is up and running. | Creating more and better jobs Attract more people into employment and modernise social protection systems Improve the adaptability of workers and enterprises and the flexibility of labour markets Investing more in human capital through better education and skills | The Social Partners are invited to develop a joint Lisbon action programme ahead of the Spring 2005 European Council identifying their contribution to the Lisbon goals. | Member States and the social partners must increase efforts to boost the level of employment particularly by pursuing active employment policies which help people in work and provide incentives for them to remain there, developing active ageing policies to discourage people from leaving the workforce too early, and by modernising social protection systems, so that they continue to offer the security needed to help people embrace change. | The future of Europe and the future of the Lisbon Strategy is closely linked to young people.
The next generation of Structural Funds (including those for rural development) are being reshaped with this in mind – focusing on how it can help to deliver growth and jobs at a local level. | - III Improving Lisbon governance The governance of the Lisbon Strategy needs radical improvement to make it more effective and more easily understood .
There will be a single Lisbon report at EU and at national level on the progress made.
This approach will make it easier for the European Council to give practical guidance each spring and for the Commission to play its role of monitoring progress towards the Lisbon goals, offering encouragement and proposing additional action to keep Lisbon on track. * * * On this basis, the Commission recommends to the European Council to: - Launch a new Partnership for Growth and Jobs - Endorse the Community Action Programme and call for Member States to establish their own National Action Programmes - Approve the new arrangements for governance of the Lisbon Strategy set out in this Report, in order to improve the effectiveness of policy delivery at Community and national level and to encourage a real debate and genuine political ownership of our Lisbon goals. 1.
This same dynamism drove the launch of the far-reaching agenda for reform in March 2000 at the Lisbon European Council.
It mapped out a path towards a competitive and inclusive, knowledge-based, economy, offering a European response to the urgent challenges our continent faces. | …but not enough progress has been made. | Today, we see that combination of economic conditions, international uncertainty, slow progress in the Member States and a gradual loss of focus has allowed Lisbon to be blown off course.
The changes proposed to the European Union’s stability and growth pact – the rules at EU level that govern national budgetary policies – should further stabilise our economy, while ensuring that Member States can play a full role in creating conditions for long-term growth. | Productivity and employment | The Lisbon strategy gives equal importance to increasing both employment and productivity, through enhanced competitiveness. | More and better jobs…. | Labour markets must be allowed to function better, providing incentives for people to work and for businesses to take them on, and to create more and better jobs.
This will require significant investment in human capital, and greater adaptability of the workforce in more inclusive labour markets. | …enhanced competitiveness through productivity growth … | Productivity growth has slowed down markedly in the EU.
From now on, structural reforms, through such policies, should be pivotal in the renewed Lisbon strategy. | …must go hand in hand. | Productivity growth and increased employment must go hand in hand.
Facilitating change to more competitive sectors and better quality jobs is therefore critical to the success of the renewed Lisbon strategy. | The responsibility must be shared between the EU and national level. | Against the backdrop, pushing forward our policy agenda relies on action at both Union and national level.
This is why a partnership is indispensable. | 2.
This forms part of the strategic programme for 2005-2009 and is geared to enabling the Member States, the European Union and the social partners to work together towards the same aim.
The challenges are common challenges and affect our model of development.
A Lisbon Action Programme for the Union and the Member States | Three main areas… | At the heart of the proposed partnership for growth and jobs is a Lisbon Action Programme.
It covers actions in three main areas: Making Europe a more attractive place to invest and work, Knowledge and innovation for growth, Creating more and better jobs | …will simplify our approach… | This provides a stronger focus for the renewed Lisbon strategy.
Making Europe a more attractive place to invest and work | Boosting growth and jobs requires increasing Europe’s attractiveness as a place to invest and work.
In order to overcome the obstacles posed by 25 different sets of rules governing how companies are taxed when they operate in several Member States, the Commission is taking work forward to try to achieve an agreement on a common consolidated corporate tax base and its implementation.
EU competition policy has played a key role in shaping European competitive markets, which have contributed to increasing productivity.
Enquiries in key sectors, like financial services and energy, will be undertaken to ascertain the underlying reasons why markets do not fully function in such sectors. | Member States must reduce and redirect State aid. | Member State should reduce and redirect State Aids to address market failures in sectors with a high growth potential as well as to stimulate innovation.
The Commission will launch a major overhaul reform of State aid rules during the course of the year (see section 3.3.1). | EU business also needs open global markets. | European companies are facing more and more international challenges and EU trade policy needs to ensure that they can have access to third markets and compete on a fair basis with clear rules.
In summary, open markets, both in Europe and globally, are crucial to generating higher growth rates. | GROWTH AND JOBS: THE GLOBAL DIMENSION The completion of an ambitious agreement in the DOHA round, therefore, remains the fundamental objective.
Member States should also pursue their own better regulation initiatives, notably in respect of sectors where Europe’s productivity growth is clearly lagging behind, such as the services sector.
Member States must deliver on their commitments to start work on 45 “quick start” cross-border projects for transport and energy.
Member States should exploit the opportunities offered by EU regional and social funds to support regional innovation strategies.
i2010: European Information Society can stimulate ICT use | More generally, our innovation performance is crucially dependent on strengthening investment and the use of new technologies, particularly ICTs, by both the private and public sectors.
Europe must rise to this challenge and take the lead in shifting towards more sustainable patterns of production and consumption. | …Eco-innovation will hold the key. | Moreover, by getting more output from given inputs innovation leading to productivity growth can also make a significant contribution to ensuring that economic growth is increasingly environmentally sustainable.
These are needed both for use within the EU and to meet demand in expanding markets worldwide.
The synergies from jointly addressing research, regulatory and financing challenges at the European level where for reasons of scale or scope individual member states cannot succeed in isolation to tackle market failures have not always been fully exploited. | Galileo and aeronautics stand as examples of where public-private partnerships have delivered. | The Galileo project and the aeronautics are powerful examples of a successful pooling of European excellence – in both cases bringing significant benefits to the European economy.
Creating more and better jobs | Europe needs more and better jobs... | Ensuring prosperity and reducing the risks of social exclusion means doing more to give people jobs and make sure they remain in work or education throughout their lives. | …but demographics are putting our employment record under further pressure. | In a context of rapid economic change and intense demographic ageing, creating more and better jobs is not just a political ambition: it is an economic and social necessity.
The challenge is to attract and keep more people in the labour market through active labour market policies and appropriate incentives.
The huge potential of women in the labour market remains to be fully exploited.
Action is also needed for young people, where Europe is still faced with high structural unemployment and high drop out rates from education and for older workers who still start exiting the labour market on a very large scale by the time they reach 55 years of age.
Legal migration to avoid shortages of specific skills and a mismatch of demand and supply in important segments of the labour market also has a key role to play | EUROPEAN YOUTH INITIATIVE In their letter of 29 October 2004, the leaders of France, Germany, Spain and Sweden put forward a proposal for a European Pact for Youth which concentrates on reducing youth unemployment and facilitating entry into the labour market.
In the policy area “Increase investment in human capital through better education and skills”, several measures specifically target the younger generation and aim at endowing this group with the human capital and the skills needed in a dynamic knowledge-based economy.
Measures under the heading “Increase and Improve investment in Research and Development” - linked with the ability to increase the amount of human capital in the economy - will also benefit the younger generations by opening up new career prospects. | The modernisation of social protection systems is also important. | Member States should modernise social protection systems (most importantly pensions and health care systems) and strengthen their employment policies.
Member States' employment policies should aim at attracting more people into employment (notably through tax and benefit reforms to remove unemployment and wage traps, improved use of active labour market policies and active ageing strategies); improving the adaptability of workers and enterprises notably through wage developments in line with productivity growth and increased investment in human capital.
Increasing healthy life years will be a crucial factor in achieving this objective. | Member States should set national targets for employment… | The Commission is proposing that Member States fix national employment rate targets for 2008 and 2010 in their National Lisbon Programmes and that they map out which policy instruments they intend to mobilise to reach it.
Member States must fulfil their commitment to put in place Lifelong Learning Strategies by 2006. | EU funding has a role to play. | The Community will contribute to the objective of more and better jobs by mobilising its expenditure policies.
For example, the completion of a single market in services should lead to an increase in the GDP level by 0.6% and of employment level by 0.3% in the medium-term.
The integration of financial markets could – in the medium to long term – lower the cost of capital for EU companies by about 0.5 percentage points and that this could bring about a 1.1% rise in the level of GDP and 0.5% in the level of employment in the long run.
Creating more and better jobs Finally, the improvement in the employment performance observed in the latest years is more significant in those countries that have carried out reforms aimed at increasing the participation rate and at better designing active labour market policies and tax and benefit systems.
It would also raise employment by at least some 6 million jobs by 2010. | 4.
But they will only work if there is genuine commitment from Member States. | The European Council sets the direction… | Clear roles would also be assigned at the European level: The European Council would have overall responsibility for guiding the process.
The Partnership for growth and jobs is, therefore, fully consistent with the ambitions of the partnership for change adopted by the social partners at the Tripartite Summit in March 2004. | This new 3 year cycle starts in 2005. | This new 3 year cycle would be launched in 2005 with new more general economic and employment guidelines being set, allowing member states to tailor make their national Lisbon programmes to cater for their national situations.
Based on the national Lisbon programmes, the Commission will, therefore, be able to annually evaluate progress towards the 3% of GDP R%amp%D expenditure target for the Union as a whole, make any necessary proposals for adjusting policy instruments, give feedback to Member States and, if necessary, report on serious difficulties to the European Council. | Informing people about Lisbon is an important step to creating a commitment on all levels of government. | Above all, people need to understand why Lisbon matters. | The challenge of making the case for reform does not stop with this Report, nor even with the launch of the partnership for growth and jobs at the March European Council.
But getting this message across requires a real and sustained effort. | …and this must be explained at EU and national level. | This task must be shared by the European Institutions.
