This explanatory memorandum covers both the Commission Recommendation on the Broad Economy Policy Guidelines (BEPGs) and the proposal for a Council Decision on the Employment Guidelines (EGs).
The need to increase the focus on growth and jobs The period that followed the Lisbon European Council in March 2000 was marked by a sharp reversal of fortune for the global economy.
The economic recovery has gradually taken hold since the second half of 2003 and, although the European Union’s (EU) economic performance was disappointing in the second half of 2004, the Commission’s latest forecasts predict a rebound in economic activity in the course of 2005.
Efforts made by the Member States allowed the employment rate to increase from 61.9% in 1999 to 62.9% in 2003.
Hourly labour productivity growth in Europe has slowed down further since the start of the decade, resulting in a lower labour productivity growth trend than its leading competitors for the first time in several decades.
Achieving higher growth potential and more jobs will provide an essential contribution to sustainable development and social cohesion in the EU.
The new start for the Lisbon strategy, as reflected in these integrated guidelines, aims to set out the appropriate responses to these developments.
Over a ten-year period, this would imply an increase in the GDP level of up to 7 or 8%.
The EU must seize the opportunities provided by the opening up of rapidly growing markets in Asia, such as China and India.
At the same time, the EU must deal with the resulting new international division of labour, particularly as China begins to specialise more in high value-added goods and as India develops as a global hub for outsourcing.
A sustainable growth also requires greater demographic dynamism, improved social integration and fuller utilisation of the potential embodied by European youth as recognised by the European Council in adopting the European Youth Pact.
Integrated Guidelines (2005-2008) These issues call for a focus on reforms to raise the Union’s growth potential, while maintaining sound macroeconomic policies that underpin the success of reform efforts.
The Integrated Guidelines are a direct reflection of these priorities at European level.
Refocusing on growth and employment The European Council of March 2005 has just relaunched the Lisbon strategy by refocusing on growth and employment in Europe , in accordance with the Commission’s proposals[2].
Furthermore, the involvement of relevant stakeholders can help to raise awareness of the need for structural reforms, improve the quality of implementation, and increase the sense of ownership of the Lisbon strategy.
A new cycle of governance - First of all, the Commission has been asked by the European Council to incorporate the priority given to growth and employment into new Broad Economic Policy Guidelines, based on Article 99, to ensure the economic consistency of the three economic, social and environmental dimensions of the Lisbon strategy, and to prepare new Employment Guidelines, based on Article 128 of the Treaty.
Using this simplified mechanism of reports, the Member States will thus be able to focus more fully on implementation. - These national reform programmes should be followed up by separate implementation reports in the following years (autumn 2006 and 2007), incorporating the sectoral reports mentioned above, before being replaced by new programmes, which will reflect the new integrated guidelines issued in the spring of 2008.
This programme will reflect the measures included in the Communication from the Commission to the Spring European Council[5] and, in particular the Community elements[6] of the Lisbon Action Programme.
Section B focuses on the measures and policies that the Union and the Member States must carry out in order to make Europe a more attractive place to invest and work and to boost knowledge and innovation for growth.
Policy measures and structural reforms to implement these guidelines will benefit substantially from stable macroeconomic conditions and policies.
Part 2 – The Employment Guidelines This part of the integrated guidelines includes the proposal for a Council decision on the Employment Guidelines, on which the European Parliament, the European Social and Economic Committee and the Committee of the Regions will be consulted, in accordance with Article 128 of the Treaty.
The modernisation of social protection systems is also necessary to ensure their adequacy, financial sustainability and responsiveness to changing needs in society and to support lasting economic and employment growth[7].
Integrated guidelines for growth and jobs (2005-2008) Macroeconomic guidelines 1.
To secure economic stability. 2.
To promote an efficient allocation of resources. 4.
To promote greater coherence between macroeconomic and structural policies. 5.
To ensure that wage developments contribute to macroeconomic stability and growth. 6.
To encourage the sustainable use of resources and strengthen the synergies between environmental protection and growth. 15.
To implement employment policies aimed at achieving full employment, improving quality and productivity at work, and strengthening social and territorial cohesion. 17.
To improve matching of labour market needs. 20.
To ensure employment-friendly wage and other labour cost developments. 22.
To adapt education and training systems in response to new competence requirements. * * * Consequently, the Commission: - recommends the following broad guidelines for the economic policies of the Member States and the Community, in accordance with Article 99 of the EC Treaty, and - proposes the following Council Decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the Member States, in accordance with Article 128 of the EC Treaty.
For some of the new Member States, it will be important that monetary policies allow a further decline in long-term interest rates and an exchange rate regime that is directed towards achieving sustainable real - and nominal - convergence.
To secure economic stability, Member States should maintain their medium-term budgetary objectives over the economic cycle and, as long as this objective has not yet been achieved, take all the necessary corrective measures in line with the Stability and Growth Pact.
Member States can address the economic implications of ageing by pursuing a faster pace of debt reduction and by taking measures to raise employment rates and increase labour supply so as to offset the impact of future declines in the number of persons of working age.
It is also essential to modernise social protection systems so as to ensure that they are financially viable, while at the same time ensuring that they fulfil their goals in terms of access and adequacy, in the face of higher dependency ratios and the rising needs linked to an increase in the number of elderly persons.
To safeguard economic sustainability Member States should, in view of the projected costs of ageing populations, undertake a satisfactory pace of government debt reduction to strengthen public finances, reform pension and health care systems to ensure that they are financially viable while being socially adequate and accessible, and take measures to raise employment rates and labour supply (Integrated guideline No 2).
See also integrated guideline “Promote a lifecycle approach to work” (No 17) .
To promote an efficient allocation of resources Member States should, without prejudice to guidelines on economic stability and sustainability, direct the composition of public expenditure towards growth-enhancing categories, adapt tax structures to strengthen growth potential and ensure that mechanisms are in place to assess the relationship between public spending and the achievement of policy objectives and ensure the overall coherence of reform packages (Integrated guideline No 3).
To promote greater coherence between macroeconomic and structural policies Member States should pursue reforms that support the macroeconomic framework by increasing flexibility, mobility and adjustment capacity in response to globalisation, technological advances and cyclical changes (Integrated guideline No 4).
See also integrated guideline “Promote flexibility combined with employment security and reduce labour market segmentation” (No 20).
Ensure that wage developments contribute to macroeconomic stability and complement structural reforms Wage developments can contribute to stable macroeconomic conditions and an employment-friendly policy mix provided that real wage increases are in line with the underlying rate of productivity growth over the medium term and are consistent with a rate of profitability that allows for productivity, capacity and employment-enhancing investment.
This requires that temporary factors such as increases in productivity caused by a cyclical rebound or one off rises in the headline rate of inflation do not cause an unsustainable trend in wage growth and that wage developments reflect local labour market conditions.
To ensure that wage developments contribute to macroeconomic stability and growth and to increase adaptability Member States should promote nominal wage increases and labour costs consistent with price stability and the trend in productivity over the medium term, taking into account differences across skills and local labour market conditions (Integrated guideline No 5).
See also integrated guideline “Ensure employment-friendly wage and other labour cost developments” (No 21).
A.2 Ensuring a dynamic and well-functioning euro area The need to achieve higher growth and employment is particularly acute in the euro area given its recent subdued economic performance and its low level of potential growth of around 2% (Commission estimates).
To contribute to a dynamic and well-functioning EMU , euro area Member States need to pay particular attention to fiscal discipline, and in this connection those that have not yet reached their medium-term budgetary objective should pursue an annual improvement in their cyclically-adjusted budget deficit net of one-offs and other temporary measures of 0.5% of GDP as a benchmark, while ensuring a higher adjustment effort in good times; press forward with structural reforms that will improve euro area competitiveness and economic adjustment to asymmetric shocks; and ensure that the euro area’s influence in the global economic system is commensurate with its economic weight (Integrated guideline No 6).
Section B – Microeconomic reforms to raise Europe’s growth potential Structural reforms are essential to increase the EU’s growth potential, because they increase the efficiency and adaptability of the European economy.
B.1 Making Europe a more attractive place to invest and work The attractiveness of the European Union as an investment location depends inter alia on the size and openness of its markets, its regulatory environment and the quality of its infrastructure.
Extend and deepen the Internal Market The ability of European producers to compete and survive in the Internal Market is key to their competitive strength in world markets.
A further opening up of European markets to competition can be achieved by a reduction in the general level of State aid, while making allowance for genuine market failures.
To create a more attractive business environment , Member States should improve the quality of their regulations through a systematic and rigorous assessment of their economic, social and environmental impacts, while taking into consideration the administrative costs associated with regulation.
Moreover, Member States should consult widely on the costs and benefits of their regulatory initiatives, in particular where these imply trade-offs between different policy objectives (Integrated guideline No 9).
To promote a more entrepreneurial culture and create a supportive environment for SMEs , Member States should improve access to finance, adapt tax systems, strengthen the innovative potential of SMEs, and provide relevant information and support services in order to encourage the creation and growth of start-ups in line with the SMEs Charter.
Increase and improve investment in R%amp%D R%amp%D affects economic growth through various channels: first, it can contribute to the creation of new markets or production processes; second, it can lead to incremental improvements in already existing products and production processes; and third, it increases the capacity of a country to absorb new technologies.
It is also essential to ensure that companies operate in sufficiently competitive environment since competition provides an important incentive to private spending on innovation.
To increase and improve investment in R%amp%D , Member States should further develop the mix of measures to foster business R%amp%D through: improved framework conditions and ensuring that companies operate in a sufficiently competitive environment; increased and more effective public expenditure on R%amp%D; strengthening centres of excellence; making better use of support mechanisms, such as fiscal measures to leverage private R%amp%D; ensuring a sufficient supply of qualified researchers by attracting more students into scientific, technical and engineering disciplines and enhancing the career development and the transnational and intersectoral mobility of researchers (Integrated guideline No 12).
They should facilitate the uptake of ICT and related changes in the organisation of work in the economy (Integrated guideline No 13).
The implementation of these priorities should be in line with existing European commitments and with the actions and instruments proposed in the Environmental Technologies Action Plan (ETAP), through the use of market-based instruments, risk funds and R%amp%D funding, greening of public procurement and the removal of environmentally harmful subsidies alongside other policy instruments (Integrated guideline No 14).
In order to enhance and sustain economic and technological leadership Europe must increase its capacity to develop and market new technologies.
Article 2 All aspects of the guidelines shall be taken into account in the employment policies of the Member States and be reported upon in the Lisbon National Programmes submitted annually.
Article 3 This decision is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, For the Council The President ANNEX 1 ATTRACT AND RETAIN MORE PEOPLE IN EMPLOYMENT AND MODERNISE SOCIAL PROTECTION SYSTEMS Achieving full employment, and reducing unemployment and inactivity, by increasing the demand for and supply of labour, is vital.
This goes hand-in-hand with improving the attractiveness of jobs, quality at work and labour productivity growth, and reducing the share of working poor.
Determined action is needed to strengthen social inclusion, prevent exclusion from the labour market and support integration in employment of people at a disadvantage, and to reduce regional disparities in terms of employment, unemployment and labour productivity, especially in regions lagging behind.
Implement employment policies aiming at achieving full employment, improving quality and productivity at work, and strengthening social and territorial cohesion .
Member States should set national employment rate targets for 2008 and 2010 (Integrated guideline No 16).
Promoting a new lifecycle approach to work and modernising social protection systems to ensure their adequacy, financial sustainability and responsiveness to changing needs in society are all the more necessary because of the expected decline in the working-age population.
Promote a lifecycle approach to work through: a renewed endeavour to build employment pathways for young people and reduce the youth unemployment; resolute action to eliminate gender gaps in employment, unemployment and pay; better reconciliation of work and private life, including the provision of accessible and affordable childcare facilities and care for other dependants; modern pension and healthcare systems, ensuring their adequacy, financial sustainability and responsiveness to changing needs, so as to support participation in employment and longer working lives, including appropriate incentives to work and discourage early retirement; support for working conditions conducive to active ageing (Integrated guideline No 17).
Geographical mobility is also needed to access job opportunities more widely and in the EU at large.
Promote flexibility combined with employment security and reduce labour market segmentation through: the adaptation of employment legislation, reviewing where necessary the level of flexibility provided by permanent and non-permanent contracts; better anticipation and positive management of change, including economic restructuring, notably changes linked to trade opening, so as to minimise their social costs and facilitate adaptation; support for transitions in occupational status, including training, self-employment, business creation and geographic mobility; the promotion and dissemination of innovative and adaptable forms of work organisation, including better health and safety and diversity of contractual and working time arrangements, with a view to improving quality and productivity at work; adaptation to new technologies in the workplace, determined action to transform undeclared work into regular employment (Integrated guideline No 20).
See also integrated guideline “To promote greater coherence between macroeconomic and structural policies” (No 4).
To maximise job creation, preserve competitiveness and contribute to the general economic framework, overall wage developments should be in line with productivity growth over the economic cycle and should reflect the labour market situation.
See also integrated guideline “To ensure that wage developments contribute to macroeconomic stability and growth” (No 5). 3 INCREASE INVESTMENT IN HUMAN CAPITAL THROUGH BETTER EDUCATION AND SKILLS Europe needs to invest more in human capital.
To achieve a substantial increase in public and private investment in human resources per capita, it is important to ensure fair and transparent sharing of costs and responsibilities between all actors.
Adaptation and capacity-building of education and training systems is necessary to improve their labour market relevance, their responsiveness to the needs of the knowledge-based economy and society and their efficiency.
Greater mobility for both work and learning purposes is also needed to access job opportunities more widely in the EU at large.
It will be important to make use of the agreed European instruments and references to support reforms of national education and training systems.
Good governance also requires transparency in the allocation of administrative and financial resources.
