COMMUNICATION FROM THE COMMISSION Monitoring report on the state of preparedness for EU membership of Bulgaria and Romania [pic] | COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES | Brussels, 26.9.2006 COM(2006) 549 final COMMUNICATION FROM THE COMMISSION Monitoring report on the state of preparedness for EU membership of Bulgaria and Romania TABLE OF CONTENTS 1.
Safeguards and other measures 7 3.1.
Tools applicable to all Member States 7 3.2.
Judiciary and the fight against corruption 9 3.3.2.
Agricultural funds 11 3.3.3.
Food safety 11 3.3.4.
Accession negotiations were completed in December 2004.
The Accession Treaty[1] was signed in April 2005.
To date, the Treaty has been ratified by Bulgaria, Romania and 21 Member States.
In its report of May 2006[2], the Commission stated that both countries should be prepared for membership by 1 January 2007, provided that they addressed a number of outstanding issues.
The Commission indicated that it would report again on the state of preparedness of both countries by early October.
This report outlines the Commission's assessment of both countries' progress since May 2006.
SUMMARY OF MONITORING FINDINGS This section summarises each country's progress made since May 2006.
Rules have been introduced establishing objective procedures for the appointment and evaluation of magistrates.
Further reform of the Supreme Judicial Council is necessary, in particular as regards its accountability and capacity to effectively manage the judiciary, in order to ensure the transparency and efficiency of judicial processes.
Difficulties in the implementation of penal procedures persist.
However, there is still insufficient cooperation between the bodies involved in the fight against organised crime.
Bulgaria has made substantial progress with regard to the collection and treatment of dead animals and animal by-products in the context of transmissible spongiform encephalopathies ( TSE ).
The necessary measures have been adopted.
However, further progress is still needed in a number of other areas, such as social inclusion, social dialogue, anti-discrimination and public health, motor vehicle insurance, nuclear energy and safety, environment, financial management and control of future structural funds, as well as animal diseases.
Its current reform path should enable it to cope with competitive pressure and market forces within the Union.
Overall, there has been some progress in the following areas: trafficking in human beings, child protection, and the protection and integration of minorities .
In addition, Bulgaria needs to ensure the sustainability of public administration reform. 2.2.
The criminal liability for legal persons has been introduced and new legislation was adopted tightening the rules on the financing of political parties.
The quantity and quality of non-partisan investigations by the National Anti-Corruption Directorate (DNA) into allegations of high-level corruption have continued to increase.
Corruption remains a concern in particular within the local government.
However with regard to the paying agencies, a number of issues remain to be addressed relating to the implementation in due time of a proper IT system, to the adequacy of staffing, equipment and office premises as well as to the incompleteness of the majority of management and control procedures.
Romania has made good progress with regard to the collection and treatment of dead animals and animal by-products ( TSE ).
Substantial progress has been made with regard to the interconnectivity of IT taxation systems.
However, further progress is still needed in a number of areas, such as social policies and employment including public health, genetically modified organisms, motor insurance, capital requirements for credit institutions and investment firms, money laundering and the fight against fraud and corruption, financial management and control of future structural funds and animal diseases.
In addition, Romania needs to ensure the sustainability of public administration reform, and to fully align with EU external positions, such as on the International Criminal Court. 3.
Like for any other Member State, it will apply all the tools available within the EU legislation ( acquis ) where necessary.
Section 3.1 provides an overview of the tools available under the acquis .
Section 3.2 presents the tools based on the Accession Treaty.
Tools applicable to all Member States These tools consist of the necessary preventive or remedial actions which the Commission is obliged to use to address any shortcoming which may impede the proper functioning of EU policies.
These include safeguard measures, financial corrections of EU funds, competition policy measures and infringement procedures[3].
Safeguard measures based on the acquis can be invoked upon accession, as for any Member State, in many policy areas (transport, food safety, aviation safety etc).
For example, the acquis contains several measures to ensure the food safety within the EU.
For each of the animal or plant diseases, different Directives specify measures to be taken in case such a disease occurs in a current or new Member State.
Such measures often consist of prohibitions to export certain animals or products from a Member State to the internal market until the disease is under control or eradicated.
The Commission can decide on food safety measures after having received the favourable opinion of the EU Standing Committee on the Food Chain and Animal health by qualified majority voting.
The Commission may apply safeguard measures in relation to the EU funds, including financial corrections.
For agricultural funds , the acquis provides different types of controls.
Finally, if the Commission concludes that there is a non-respect of Community rules or an abusive use of EU funds, it may suspend or temporarily reduce the payment of advances on a case-by-case basis.
For structural funds , the acquis provides four types of control that may lead to financial corrections.
Firstly, every Member State needs to submit operational programmes indicating how the funds will be spent within each sector.
Finally, further to this range of safeguard measures to the EU funds, financial corrections can take place in case of individual or systemic irregularities are found during the regular ex-post controls. 3.2.
The internal market safeguard can be invoked when a new Member State causes, or risks causing, a serious breach of the functioning of the internal market.
The justice and home affairs safeguard allows the unilateral suspension of the current Member States' obligations in the field of judicial cooperation with the country concerned, both in civil and criminal law as far as legal instruments falling under the principle of mutual recognition are concerned.
It can be invoked in case there are serious shortcomings or the risk thereof in these two areas.
In addition, there are transitional arrangements in the Accession Treaty.
The first category exists of arrangements which have been agreed during the negotiations for several areas to avoid possible regional or sectoral disturbances in either the new or old Member States.
For example, the free movement of workers from new Member States may be restricted by the Member States for up to seven years after accession.
Finally, the Accession Treaty foresees a second category of transitional arrangements which the Commission can take during a period of three years after accession on veterinary, phytosanitary and food safety rules[5].
These measures aim to prevent, for example, non-compliant food establishments from selling their products on the internal market during the transitional period of maximum three years.
Accompanying measures foreseen for the accession of Bulgaria and Romania Based on the findings of this report, the Commission will take remedial measures, where necessary, to ensure the functioning of EU policies.
In case other shortcomings are identified before or after accession, appropriate measures will equally be taken to ensure the proper functioning of EU policies. 3.3.1.
Judiciary and the fight against corruption The report shows that further progress is still necessary in the area of judicial reform and the fight against organised crime and corruption.
The Commission will establish a mechanism to cooperate and verify progress in these areas after accession.
This will be based on Articles 37 and 38 of the Act of Accession.
Both Bulgaria and Romania shall report regularly on progress in addressing specific benchmarks.
The first report should be submitted by 31 March 2007.
The Commission will provide internal and external expertise to cooperate and provide guidance in the reform process and to verify progress.
The Commission will then report to the European Parliament and the Council by June on the progress made in addressing the benchmarks.
Based on the findings of this report, the benchmarks to be addressed are as follows: Bulgaria - Adopt constitutional amendments removing any ambiguity regarding the independence and accountability of the judicial system. - Ensure a more transparent and efficient judicial process by adopting and implementing a new judicial system act and the new civil procedure code.
Report on new and ongoing investigations, indictments and convictions in these areas.
Report and monitor the impact of the new civil and penal procedures codes. - Establish, as foreseen, an integrity agency with responsibilities for verifying assets, incompatibilities and potential conflicts of interest, and for issuing mandatory decisions on the basis of which dissuasive sanctions can be taken. - Building on progress already made, continue to conduct professional, non-partisan investigations into allegations of high-level corruption. - Take further measures to prevent and fight against corruption, in particular within the local government.
The Commission will adopt a Decision implementing and defining the modalities of this mechanism after consulting the Member States.
It will enter into force on 1 January 2007.
This list of benchmarks will be amended in case either country complies with one or more of the benchmarks before accession. 3.3.2.
Agricultural funds In Bulgaria and Romania there is a real risk that the IACS will not be functioning properly by the time of accession.
To address these risks, a mechanism is needed which provides for the possibility of a future decision on measures relating to the proper use of agricultural funding covered by IACS.
Such measures are necessary to avoid undue payments during the first years after accession and to address the imminent risk of a serious breach of the functioning of the internal market in agricultural products.
In practice the mechanism gives the two countries time to complete the necessary work on a properly functioning IACS.
Bulgaria has submitted for formal approval a plan finalising the eradication of classical swine fever in feral pigs.
Romania has submitted for formal approval a plan for the eradication of classical swine fever in feral and domestic pigs.
The corresponding measures enter into force upon accession.
These measures will be based on the Act of Accession or the acquis .
The list of Bulgarian and Romanian agri-food establishments which were not allowed to sell their products in the other Member States during a period of three years as they do not comply yet with EU rules will be updated by the date of accession.
This procedure is based on transitional measures provided for in the Act of Accession.
In addition, specific transitional measures based on Article 42 of the Act of accession may need to be adopted in the milk sector due to the discrepancy between the capacity of treatment of compliant establishment and the availability of compliant raw milk.
These measures will prevent the selling of some products made from this non-compliant raw milk in the other Member States. 3.3.4.
Aviation safety In view of the serious deficiencies identified by the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) and the Joint Aviation Authorities (JAA) in the area of aviation safety, the JAA refused Bulgaria's mutual recognition within the JAA system in the relevant safety areas, namely airworthiness, maintenance, operations and flight crew licensing.
These measures are all based on the acquis . 4.
CONCLUSION Bulgaria and Romania applied for membership of the European Union in 1995 and accession negotiations with both countries were opened in February 2000.
In 2002, the European Council announced its objective was to welcome Bulgaria and Romania into European Union in 2007, provided they made sufficient progress in fulfilling the membership criteria.
Accession negotiations were completed in December 2004 and the Accession Treaty was signed in April 2005.
Bulgaria and Romania are sufficiently prepared to meet the political, economic and acquis criteria by 1 January 2007.
Many of the challenges set out in the May reports have now been addressed.
The Commission has adopted the necessary legal provisions to ensure the proper management of EU agricultural funds.
The report underlines that the existing rules contain the necessary guarantees for the proper management of EU structural funds, and other programmes.
Sufficient guarantees exist in the acquis and the Accession Treaty to ensure the proper functioning of EU policies and institutions.
As a result of the progress made, Bulgaria and Romania will be in a position to take on the rights and obligations of EU membership on 1 January 2007.
The Commission looks forward to welcoming Bulgaria and Romania as fully-fledged members of the European Union on this date.
In June 2006, the Supreme Judicial Council adopted a regulation on the competitive examination and evaluation of magistrates in accordance with the Judicial System Act.
The IT system for random allocation of cases to judges is now available in the great majority of courts.
Training organised by the National Institute of Justice continued smoothly.
The transfer of responsibility from investigating magistrates (Sledovateli) to police investigators (Dosnateli) proceeded smoothly.
Prosecutors have started to take over leadership of investigations in the pre-trial phase.
A newly established working group monitors the functioning of the new penal procedure code.
The fast track procedure has speeded up penal procedures in a number of cases.
The composition and functioning of the Supreme Judicial Council still give rise to concern.
Decision making on disciplinary measures by the Supreme Judicial Council has often been slow.
So far, the monitoring mechanism of the new penal procedure code is rather ineffective.
As regards the pre-trial phase, more training is needed for police investigators.
The serious shortcomings in the audit on the functioning of the Prosecution Office now need to be properly addressed by the responsible authorities with sustainable measures ensuring in all cases accountable and professional behaviour of prosecutors.
The new Law on Private Enforcement Agents has not yet substantially improved the execution of judgements.
The anti-corruption departments in the Supreme Judicial Council and in the Prosecution services need to be reinforced and to be protected from undue influence.
Anti-corruption measures Bulgaria has continued to make progress in the fight against corruption.
As part of the programme for the implementation of the strategy for transparent governance and for preventing and counteracting corruption, amendments to the 'law on the publication of the assets of persons occupying high public positions', were adopted in August 2006.
Amendments to the Law on Political Parties were adopted in August 2006.
In accordance with the Law on the Administration, inspectorates directly subordinated to the Minister have been established in all ministries and most state agencies.
These inspectorates may propose disciplinary or legal measures against staff in case of misconduct.
Contact points for receiving reports of corruption have been established in many state bodies.
A plan for conducting anti-corruption training for about 50 000 officials at all levels of the administration has been drawn up.
Since May 2006, immunities from two Members of Parliament were lifted.
Tax collecting agencies, customs and Road Executive Agency as well as veterinary inspection services and local government are particularly susceptible to corruptive practices.
In July 2006, the Law on the enactment, adoption and execution of decisions for freezing property or evidence has been adopted, implementing the Council decision on the execution of orders freezing property or evidence in the EU.
Co-operation with neighbouring countries and EU Member States in dismantling international criminal networks has continued.
As regards the new Penal Procedure Code, there are shortcomings, as outlined in the judicial reform section.
In June 2006, the Law on Measures against Money Laundering was amended to reflect fully the requirements of the second EU Anti-Money Laundering Directive.
Furthermore, various initiatives have been taken with the aim of improving enforcement and co-operation between law enforcement agencies: training of investigators and prosecutors, new organisational structures within the police and the prosecutor's office and improvement of inter-agency coordination within the enforcement agencies.
Integrated Administration and Control System (IACS) Good progress has been made lately with regard to the setting-up the Integrated Administration Control System (IACS).
A detailed plan in respect of on-the-spot checks has been established; staff has been recruited and trained, equipment purchased and the procedure manuals established.
Bulgaria has compiled an inventory of all existing plants involved in the trade and further processing of category 3 materials.
Financial control over structural action expenditure Good progress was made with regard to the Extended Decentralised Implementation System (EDIS) accreditation process for the pre-accession financial instruments Phare and ISPA.
Bulgaria now needs to continue intensively its efforts by completing its on-going recruitment and training process and by carrying out an additional comprehensive training programme for experts from the implementing agencies on the national procurement legislation and procedures and by preparing relevant additional manuals.
Bulgaria remains a country of transit and origin for the trafficking of human beings.
The absence of reliable registration mechanisms leads to a lack of clear information on trafficked persons and the number of missing persons.
The implementation of the Law on Bulgarian Identification Documents remains incomplete.
The implementation of the witness protection programme has been limited.
Overall, limited progress has been made with regard to trafficking in human beings.
Certain steps have been taken, in particular with the aim of improving transparency on the breakdown of responsibilities between the Ministries of Health and Labour and Social Affairs.
Protection and integration of minorities Some progress has been made with regard to the integration of Roma.
Bulgaria has taken over the chairmanship over the Decade of Roma Inclusion for one year.
The implementation of vocational and other training measures for vulnerable groups has continued.
The administrative capacity of the National Council for Cooperation on Ethnic and Demographic Issues remains weak, particularly on the regional level.
However, certain outstanding issues remain to be addressed.
However, certain outstanding issues remain to be addressed.
The privatisation process as foreseen by the government has to be completed.
The privatisation strategy for the maritime shipping company is still being revised by the Council of Ministers.
Business environment The May 2006 Report concluded that further improvements in the functioning of the judicial system and further easing of the regulatory burden on businesses were required.
However, certain outstanding issues remain to be addressed.
The functioning of the administrative and judicial systems needs to be improved further.
Labour market flexibility The May 2006 Report concluded that the regulatory framework for the labour market needed to be made more flexible.
However, certain outstanding issues remain to be addressed.
Progress can also be noted as regards health professions (doctors, general care nurses, dentists, pharmacists and midwives), the co-ordination of training and the automatic mutual recognition of qualifications, for which ordinances were adopted in August 2006.
Chapter 3 Freedom to provide services In the field of banking , the Law on the Supplementary Supervision of Financial Conglomerates and the Law on Credit Institutions were adopted in July 2006.
The Law on Bank Deposit Guarantee was also amended in July 2006.
Bulgaria has made good progress in the areas of banking, investment services and securities markets, as well as the information society.
Chapter 8 Fisheries With regard to inspection and control , the EU legal requirements for catch registration and for keeping logbooks have been transposed and are enforced.
In the context of resource and fleet management substantial progress has been achieved on the satellite based fishing vessel monitoring system which is expected to be operational for all vessels concerned by accession.
Chapter 9 Transport In the field of maritime transport , some progress can be noted.
By accession, these inspections may only be carried out by classification societies recognised by the EU.
Chapter 10 Taxation Bulgaria has made substantial progress in the areas of Value Added Tax (VAT).
Chapter 13 Employment and social policy Bulgaria has made good progress in the area of labour law .
Significant progress has been made on the preparations for managing the European Social Fund (ESF) , particularly in relation to the training of civil servants and further recruitment of staff.
Chapter 21 Regional policy With regard to the institutional structures (administrative capacity), Bulgaria has made good progress with the continued implementation of recruitment plans across the different concerned bodies.
The increased salaries for civil servants involved in administering EU funds have facilitated the recruitment of qualified staff.
Chapter 22 Environment Bulgaria has made good progress in the area of nuclear safety and radiation protection .
Chapter 23 Consumer and health protection Considerable progress has been made in this chapter.
The legal alignment of the Bulgarian legislation with the acquis in both safety related and non-safety related areas has progressed substantially through the adoption of the Consumer Credit Law and through amendments to the Law on Consumer Protection.
A draft law on distance marketing of consumer financial services has been elaborated but still requires the approval of the Bulgarian government and adoption by the Parliament.
These NGOs have been formally involved in market surveillance since the signature of a Memorandum of Joint Activity with the CCP.
Chapter 24 Cooperation in the field of justice and home affairs In the field of asylum , the administrative capacity of the Agency for Refugees has been adequately strengthened.
There is consequently a risk that border checks on MTPL policies of Bulgarian vehicles will still be required after accession and that compensation of victims of road accidents by compensation bodies will not or only partly provided as foreseen by Article 6 of that Directive.
Building on the progress made since May 2006, Bulgaria's preparation in the area of insurance should continue in the remaining months.
As regards the protection of personal data , Bulgaria's legislation is not yet aligned with the acquis .
Chapter 4 Free movement of capital In the area of money laundering , progress has been made with the amendment of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering, which largely reflects the requirements of the second EU Anti-Money Laundering Directive and to align Bulgarian law with the revised recommendations of the Financial Action Task Force on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing.
Amendments to the Law on patents were adopted in July 2006 and amendments to the Law on Trade Marks and Geographical Indications and to the Law on Industrial Design were adopted in August 2006.
A national public awareness campaign in the electronic media started in August 2006.
Chapter 7 Agriculture As for the veterinary control systems in the internal market , Bulgaria still has to finalise the infrastructure (border inspection posts) and procedures for checks on live animals and products of animal origin introduced from third countries, to set up an effective control system for participation in the internal market and to demonstrate the real time – online multi-user operation of the databases for the identification, registration and movement control for the relevant life stock species (traceability).
Chapter 9 Transport In the area of air transport , joint inspections by the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) and the Joint Aviation Authorities (JAA) have revealed significant and persistent shortcomings in the administrative capacity of the Bulgarian Civil Aviation Authority to ensure the necessary safety oversight, to implement the Community requirements on certification, of airworthiness and maintenance of aircraft and to ensure that the large fleet designed in the Commonwealth of Independent States can meet these requirements.
EASA will then have to verify the implementation of this plan by means of another inspection before Bulgaria's accession.
Chapter 10 Taxation In the areas of direct taxation and mutual assistance , no progress can be reported, as the relevant legislative acts are still not adopted by Parliament.
Chapter 13 Social policy and employment As regards public health , further legal alignment is under preparation in the field of blood and blood products as well as for tissues and cells to complete acquis alignment.
The administrative capacity of relevant executive agencies has been slightly strengthened.
Inspections of the current network of specialised institutes are being carried out on a regular basis, followed up by administrative acts or sanctions where necessary.
The representativeness criteria need to be applied in an impartial way for all social partner organisations.
Bulgaria needs to step up its preparations in this field.
Bulgaria needs to continue its analytical work and the development of social statistics on poverty and social exclusion in line with the EU indicators on social inclusion.
Bulgaria has made some progress in the area of anti-discrimination .
However, the administrative capacity of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination needs to be enhanced.
Also, Bulgaria needs to abolish the existing import/export monopolies by accession, as foreseen in its Energy Law.
Bulgaria has applied for an extension of the restructuring period until 2008.
Chapter 19 Electronic communications and information technologies Certain key issues still remain to be addressed in electronic communications and information technologies .
The adoption of the new primary law transposing the 2002 acquis and subsequent secondary legislation is still underway.
Chapter 21 Regional policy and coordination of structural instruments Programming is progressing as scheduled.
Bulgaria risks not having prepared enough projects upon accession and may hence not be in a position to fully absorb its financial allocation under the Structural Funds.
Progress was made with the hiring and training of people but complex recruitment and training plans still need to be completed.
Chapter 22 Environment No specific actions have been taken as regards the public awareness and involvement in the areas of Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control (IPPC) and NATURA 2000 in the area of horizontal legislation .
For waste management , the recruitment of staff for the regional level has made little progress.
The total number of integrated permits so far has increased to 108 out of a total of 230 to be granted by the end of October 2007.
Substantial efforts are needed as regards progress - as scheduled - in terms of implementation of measures in these areas.
In June 2006, Bulgaria adopted an Action Plan to prepare for joining SIS II at a later stage after accession.
Preparations to join Schengen after accession are broadly on track, but Bulgaria will need to demonstrate also in practice that its preparatory work are wholly focussed on SIS II and not on SIS I+.
In August 2006, the Bulgarian border police and the European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders of the Member States of the European Union FRONTEX signed a co-operation agreement.
In the period May-September 2006, 220 persons have been apprehended at the Bulgarian state border while 499 have been refused entry at border crossing points.
Effective implementation of anti-drugs measures remains a challenge.
Since May 2006 close to 180 kg heroine, 30 kg hashish and over 200 kg amphetamines as well as small quantities of marihuana, ecstasy and cocaine were seized at the Bulgarian borders.
For information on data protection , see Chapter 3.
Chapter 28 Financial control As regards the protection of EU financial interests , some improvements have been observed in the fight against fraud.
A new central unit has been created within the AFCOS in July to enhance the capacity of coordination of relevant national bodies and cooperation with OLAF in the fight against fraud and the protection of the financial interests of the EU.
The proper functioning of the central unit and the full cooperation of the relevant national bodies within the structure will now have to ensure the efficient protection of the EU financial interests. 3.
TRANSLATION OF THE ACQUIS INTO BULGARIAN Bulgaria has yet to translate about 1.4 % of the acquis (around 1 360 pages) and to revise about 16 % (around 15 000 pages).
Taken together with the situation at other stages of production (proofreading, correction, finalisation by the institutions’ legal revisers) this means that some 51 % of the total number of pages (that is, about 48 000 pages) have not yet been prepared for the Special Edition of the Official Journal which will be published from the date of enlargement.
It is of utmost importance that the acquis is fully translated and revised prior to accession in order to ensure legal certainty of secondary legislation.
Bulgaria is invited to step up its efforts towards achieving this goal.
The implementation of the national Strategy and Action Plan on justice reform has continued.
In May 2006 a Law on Mediation was adopted that provides for a system of alternative dispute resolution.
The number of cases pending before the civil section of the High Court has fallen from 6 126 at the end of February 2006 to 5 160 in September.
Judicial Inspectors have launched a preliminary investigation into the actions of the prosecutors and judges involved.
The Superior Council of the Magistracy (CSM) has started to rank the complexity of the various types of cases handled by courts and to measure the average time spent on them in order to assist the courts in managing the human resources of the justice system more efficiently.
A pilot project has started in 17 courts in which clerks will be permitted to carry out additional administrative duties currently performed by judges to reduce judges' workloads.
The CSM's Action Plan is being implemented on schedule and the following measures have been taken: firstly, internal rules have been adopted that prevent Council members from voting in disciplinary matters that affects their court or prosecution office; secondly, steps have been taken to ensure a more consistent interpretation and application of the law; thirdly, more objective criteria have been provided for the promotion of judges and prosecutors; and fourthly, new objective criteria have been established for the recruitment of staff to the Inspection Department and applied in the selection of three new judicial inspectors.
The deployment of modern information technology and communications equipment in the justice system has continued and by July 2006 all courts were interconnected via a secure network.
Since July 2006 all courts and prosecutor's offices have had online access to legislation and case law.
New inspectors should be recruited, according to the new procedure, in order to reduce the number of vacancies and to increase the regional representation amongst inspectors.
No new legislation for a framework of legal aid has been adopted yet.
While the Superior Council of the Magistracy has started to address some of the key issues facing the justice system through its newly-adopted Action Plan, concerns about potential conflicts of interest and ethics continue with regard to some Council members.
The implementation of the national Strategy and Action Plan for fighting corruption has continued.
In July new legislation was adopted tightening the rules on the financing of political parties.
The quantity and quality of non-partisan investigations into allegations of high-level corruption have continued to increase.
The National Anti-Corruption Directorate (DNA) launched investigations in three new cases of high-level corruption involving a former member of Parliament, leading figure from local government and senior civil servant.
Since March 2006, DNA indicted a total of 199 suspects and the courts issued initial convictions against 87 defendants and 82 final convictions in cases initiated by DNA.
The anti-corruption framework has become more effective as more DNA investigations are launched on the basis of information provided by public control bodies.
The Directorate General for Anti-Corruption (DGA) within the Ministry of Administration and Interior now has 298 staff working at national and local levels.
Since May DGA has conducted preliminary investigations into 615 persons and passed all these files to the competent prosecution service, which resulted in 157 indictments.
In May and June the National Customs Authority conducted 42 controls of its staff, including those based on public complaints, and consequently disciplined 41 staff and sent one file to DNA for further criminal investigation.
Acquis criteria Accreditation of paying agencies Progress has been made recently with regard to the setting-up of the paying agencies.
The contract with the IT Company for developing the IT software applications was signed on 15 July and the work commenced end of July.
A detailed plan for the work has been established.
A number of issues remain to be addressed with regard to the paying agencies relating to the implementation in due time of a proper IT system, to the adequacy of staffing, equipment and office premises as well as to the incompleteness of the majority of management and control procedures.
Overall, there is still a real risk that the paying agencies will not be functioning properly by the time of accession.
A detailed plan for the work has been established and the Farm register module has been developed.
The Farmers' register contains information on the majority of farmers and further progress has been made with regard to establishing the link between the Farmers' Register and the Land Parcel Identification System/Geographical Information System (LPIS/GIS).
Overall, there is still a real risk that IACS will not be functioning properly by the time of accession.
Reinforced efforts sustained over the whole period available before the introduction of the system will still need to be deployed in order to ensure the operability of the IACS.
The existing three rendering plants located in Popesti, Coldea and Dej will be upgraded to handle animal by-products in compliance with EU norms.
Animal waste of risk category 1 and 2 (high risk material) will be treated only in Coldea whereas the plants in Popesti and Dej will process animal waste of risk category 3 (low risk material).
The setting up of 21 intermediate collection plants and means of transport is foreseen in the consortium's programme.
Tax administration – interconnectivity with IT systems Romania has made significant progress in preparing for the VAT Information Exchange System (VIES), VAT on e-services (VoES) and Excise Movement Control System (EMCS).
Romania has successfully passed the conformance tests of the VIES and the EMCS applications, thus meeting its obligations in this area.
Political criteria Public administration reform Progress has been made in the area of public administration reform.
The decentralisation process is now taking off.
The amended law on civil servants aims for administrative decentralisation.
It also improves the recruitment procedure and defines the rights and responsibilities of civil servants.
Trafficking in human beings The 2006-2010 Strategy and Action Plan to fight against trafficking in human beings was adopted in August 2006.
The IT system needed to register returned victims is not yet operational and there are few measures to assist the social reintegration of victims.
During May and June the police conducted inspections of the pre-trial detention conditions in nine counties and five police stations in Bucharest.
In June 2006 a Law on the enforcement of criminal penalties was adopted that provides for a differentiated detention regime in prisons (maximum security, closed, semi-open and open).
The Law also facilitates improvements in prison conditions and strengthens oversight by judges over sentences served.
The efforts to relocate persons in preventive custody from police stations basements to more appropriate locations need to continue.
The authorities have continued to implement the 2005 legislation on children's rights and adoption.
Living conditions in the remaining institutions have improved substantially and are now generally of a good standard.
A s for children with a handicap, the Romanian authorities have installed a working group which will closely examine the living conditions of these children in placement centres, hospitals and boarding schools, with a view to improving these conditions.
Protection and integration of minorities In the field of protection of minorities, only limited progress can be reported.
The new National Employment Plan which was approved in August 2006 provides targeted action for minorities, including Roma.
The law on preventing and sanctioning all forms of discrimination has been amended to meet EU standards related to the independence of the National Council for Combating Discrimination.
The Agency has also begun implementing community development projects which could make a significant and long lasting contribution to improving the situation of Roma.
Employment measures should be further developed and implemented.
The Romanian authorities do not yet demonstrate at all levels that a zero-tolerance policy on racism against Roma is applied.
The institutional framework for the implementation of the national strategy for Roma is not yet sufficiently effective and it tends to diminish the capacity decision-making capacity of the National Agency for Roma and representatives of the Roma population to participate effectively in decision-making in relevant areas.
Economic criteria Macroeconomic stability and policy mix The May 2006 Report reconfirmed it is a functioning market economy and concluded that more appropriate fiscal, monetary and wage policies had been adopted.
Since that report, there has been progress in the following areas: The general government budget exhibited a surplus of 1.5% of GDP for the first six months of 2006.
Fiscal policy was considerably relaxed as the deficit target for 2006 of originally 0.5% of GDP was revised upwards to 0.9% in April and to 2.5% in June.
Privatisation and industrial restructuring The May 2006 Report reconfirmed it is a functioning market economy and concluded that deepening of structural reforms notably required the continued restructuring of the energy, mining and transport sectors and progress in implementing the privatisation programme.
The target of divesting five large industrial companies before the end of March 2006 has still not been met.
Chapter 2 Free movement of persons Romania has made good progress through adoption by the Parliament of legislation aiming at transposing the acquis on the citizens' rights regarding Union's citizens and their family members to move and reside freely within the territory of the Member States and through amendment of legislation in order to ensure that non-Romanian EU nationals receive the same treatment as the Romanian nationals on access to education and education fees.
The acquis on electoral rights has not yet been transposed.
Chapter 3 Freedom to provide services Good progress has been made with identifying barriers to the right of establishment and the freedom to provide services and removing incompatibilities with the EC Treaty.
Chapter 6 Competition policy Romania has continued to make good progress in the area of state aid enforcement.
The quality and independence of the Competition Council’s assessment of state aid measures and their analysis remains satisfactory.
Efforts need to continue to conclude the assessment of aid measures in favour of major companies in need of restructuring.
As regards state aid to the steel industry, the Romanian authorities cooperated closely with the Commission on the implementation of the National steel restructuring programme.
Romania continued to observe its commitments not to authorise any aid to steel plants in the National restructuring programme.
Chapter 7 Agriculture In most areas, progress has been made.
The administrative capacity (staff and subsequent training) of most of the common market organisations has been reinforced.
In the specific sectors, the main progress to mention are: the formal approval of 128 intervention centres for cereals; the formal approval of 288 milk purchasers, the establishment by Government of the methodology for individual milk quota allocation and the national reserve set up; in the meat sector the legal framework for carcass classification was completed and the pig carcass classification system started to operate.
The vineyard register is now designed to be compatible with the Integrated Administration and Control System (IACS).
As regards veterinary control system in the internal market , the system of identification of animals and registration of their movements had been set up.
Chapter 8 Fisheries Romania has made good progress in the chapter of fisheries through the adoption of an emergency ordinance clarifying the management of the structural funds.
The overall administrative capacity of the National Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture has been strengthened.
Chapter 10 Taxation In the field of direct taxation , Romania has largely completed the transposition of the Directives concerning indirect taxes on the raising of capital, mergers, parent-subsidiary, interest and royalties and savings.
However, several aspects need to be corrected before accession.
In the field of VAT, the new Fiscal Code, which will enter into force on 1 January 2007, eliminates the remaining discrepancies with the acquis and introduces the intra-Community regime.
Chapter 21 Regional policy Good progress has been made regarding the institutional structures (administrative capacity).
Some action has been taken on coordination procedures.
Evaluation capacity has been further developed through setting up evaluation units, drafting evaluation strategy, training and raising awareness.
Chapter 22 Environment Good progress can be noted as regards administrative capacity in general.
However, the advisory role of the Ministry and the National Environmental Agency towards regional and local agencies remains to be strengthened.
The monitoring of water quality has been established according to the parameters and frequencies as defined by the acquis .
Other important implementation steps have been taken including the identification of catchments areas for drinking water and a new inventory for establishment of collection systems and waste water treatment.
More than 1 000 new staff has been recruited by the national police, the majority of whom will be deployed in frontline public order roles.
Since May until 26 June approximately 20 kg of drugs were seized including almost 2 kg of heroin and over 1 800 ecstasy pills.
In addition, over 63 kg and 440 litres of precursor chemicals used in drug production were seized.
In the area of judicial co-operation in civil and criminal matters , online guides for judges and prosecutors have been published that describe the procedures to be followed after accession.
Chapter 28 Financial control Romania has adopted an overall strategy for the development of public internal financial control in accordance with international standards and EU best practice.
Romania has completed the transposition of the food safety legislation.
The Romanian authorities need to ensure a practical and efficient implementation of the GMO action plan, which was elaborated in June 2006.
Chapter 3 Freedom to provide services Romania has made efforts in the banking sector to transpose the new capital requirement rules for credit institutions and investment firms into its national legislation.
As regards the insurance sector , increased efforts have been noted in the field of motor insurance both in terms of reducing the number of uninsured vehicles and the strengthening of administrative capacity.
There is consequently a risk that border checks on MTPL policies of Romanian vehicles will still be required after the accession date and that compensation of victims of road accidents by compensation bodies will not or only partly be provided as foreseen by Article 6 of that Directive.
However, further efforts are still required to arrive at a more satisfactory level of enforcement and implementation of the legal framework, particularly in respect of the awareness of reporting entities outside the financial sector and supervision of these reporting entities.
Chapter 5 Company law While Romania made general progress in the field of intellectual and industrial property rights (IPR) , further efforts are still required in the area of copyrights.
Implementing measures concerning biotechnological inventions have been notified.
Chapter 7 Agriculture The Paying and Intervention Agency has taken over the responsibility for trade mechanisms and an inter-institutional cooperation protocol was signed between the agency and the National Customs Authority for the management of import/export certificates.
No development can be reported as regards quality policy where inspection services need to be strengthened.
Romania needs to sustain and further its efforts to ensure an adequate level of tax compliance and collection, in order to improve the administrative capacity of its tax administration if it is to complete preparation in this area.
Chapter 13 Social policy and employment There has been some progress on the legislative front, in particular as regards health and safety at work .
Although representativity of the Economic and Social Council has been improved through an increase of the number of its members, efforts need to continue in view of improving social dialogue in general, particularly in order to promote the weak bipartite dialogue, clarify representativity criteria and solve the outstanding issues of fragmentation and insufficient capacity of social partner organisations.
Chapter 15 Industrial policy Little progress was made with the regard to privatisation and restructuring .
Romania's preparations in this area should continue in the remaining months.
Romania has not yet put the established ex-ante control system for public procurement in operation.
Chapter 22 Environment Concerning nature protection , preparations for the Natura 2000 network have been stepped up.
Chapter 24 Justice and home affairs As regards the Schengen acquis and the management of the future EU external border , some progress has been made.
In August Romania signed an agreement on the state border regime with Bulgaria that covered co-operation and mutual assistance on border control issues.
The threat at the Romanian borders from trafficking in human beings, illegal migration and smuggling remains high.
Chapter 28 Financial control Certain concerns persist as regards the following areas of this Chapter.
Further efforts are still required to ensure implementation of Romania’s strategy for public internal financial control .
In the domain of external audit , a new organic law for the Court of Accounts, in conformity with Romania’s 2003 constitutional amendments (and making a reference to the sound financial independence of the Court), has still not been adopted yet.
TRANSLATION OF THE ACQUIS INTO ROMANIAN Romania has yet to translate about 8 % of the acquis (around 7 000 pages) and to revise about 12 % (around 11 500 pages).
Romania is invited to step up its efforts towards achieving this goal. [1] The Accession Treaty consists of the Treaty between all current member states and Bulgaria and Romania, the Protocol concerning the conditions and arrangements for admission of both countries and the Act concerning the conditions of accession and the adjustment of Treaties on which the Union is founded. [2] Commission Communication COM(2006) 214, 16.5.May 2006. [3] In addition, when the acquis is not properly applied in a Member State, private and public parties can refer to national courts to enforce EC law, and, in the final stage, to the European Court of Justice, and their government risks being condemned. [4] Article 36, 37 and 38 of the Act of Accession respectively. [5] Article 42 and Annexes VI and VII of the Act of Accession.
