Article 2 of the Agreement replaces the traditional designation clauses with a Community designation clause, permitting all Community carriers to benefit from the right of establishment.
Articles 4 and 5 of the Agreement resolve legal irregularities stemming from the infringement of Community competence.
Article 5 (Pricing) resolves conflicts between the existing bilateral air services agreements and Council Regulation No. 2409/92 on fares and rates for air services which prohibits third country carriers from being price leaders on air services for carriage wholly within the Community.
Done at Brussels, For the Council The President 2005/0009 (CNS) Proposal for a COUNCIL DECISION on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Community and Georgia on certain aspects of air services THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular Article 80, paragraph 2, in conjunction with Article 300, paragraph 2, first sentence of the first subparagraph thereof and Article 300, paragraph 3, first subparagraph, Having regard to the proposal from the Commission[3], Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament[4], Whereas: (1) The Council has authorised the Commission on 5 June 2003 to open negotiations with third countries on the replacement of certain provisions in existing bilateral agreements with a Community agreement; (2) The Commission has negotiated on behalf of the Community an agreement with Georgia on certain aspects of air services in accordance with the mechanisms and directives in the Annex to the Council’s decision authorising the Commission to open negotiations with third countries on the replacement of certain provisions in existing bilateral agreements with a Community agreement; (3) This agreement has been signed on behalf of the Community on 22 September 2004 subject to its possible conclusion at a later date, in conformity with the decision …/…/EC of the Council on [5] (4) This agreement should be approved.
Article 2 The president of the Council is authorised to designate the person empowered to make the notification provided in Article 8.1 of the Agreement.
HAVE AGREED AS FOLLOWS: ARTICLE 1 General Provisions 1.
ARTICLE 2 Designation by a Member State 1.
ARTICLE 3 Rights with regard to regulatory control 1.
The provisions in paragraph 2 of this Article shall complement the articles listed in Annex 2 (c). 2.
ARTICLE 4 Taxation of aviation fuel 1.
The provisions in paragraph 2 of this Article shall complement the corresponding provisions in the articles listed in Annex 2 (d). 2.
ARTICLE 5 Tariffs for carriage within the European Community 1.
The provisions in paragraph 2 of this Article shall complement the articles listed in Annex 2 (e). 2.
ARTICLE 6 Annexes to the Agreement The Annexes to this Agreement shall form an integral part thereof.
ARTICLE 7 Revision or amendment The Parties may, at any time, revise or amend this Agreement by mutual consent.
ARTICLE 8 Entry into force and provisional application 1.
Agreements and other arrangements between Member States and Georgia which, at the date of signature of this Agreement, have not yet entered into force and are not being applied provisionally are listed in Annex 1 (b).
ARTICLE 9 Termination 1.
ANNEX 3 List of other states referred to in Article 2 of this Agreement (a) The Republic of Iceland (under the Agreement on the European Economic Area) ; (b) The Principality of Liechtenstein (under the Agreement on the European Economic Area) ; (c ) The Kingdom of Norway (under the Agreement on the European Economic Area) ; (d ) The Swiss Confederation (under the Agreement between the European Community and the Swiss Confederation on Air Transport) [1] Council decision 11323/03 of 5 June 2003 (restricted document) [2] OJ C , , p. . [3] OJ C , , p. . [4] OJ C , , p. . [5] OJ C , , p. .
