CONTEXT OF THE PROPOSAL - Grounds for and objectives of the proposal Regulation (EC) No 2320/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing common rules in the field of civil aviation security has been in force since January 2003.
Experience gained on the basis of Commission inspections and the daily application of the Regulation by Member States shows that the swift transformation into legislation of a set of non-binding recommendations developed by the Member States has led, due to the quick drafting and adoption of the Regulation as a response to the events of 11 September 2001, to a number of problems affecting its implementation in a more solid manner.
The Commission is of the view that a new regulation will be a clear case and leading example of Better Regulation. - General context Regulation (EC) No 2320/2002 was developed as a result of the terrible events of 11 September 2001 in the USA, when four passenger aircraft were hijacked with horrendous consequences.
This regulation has now been in force for some 2½ years and has been complemented by implementing legislation, developed through comitology, as envisaged by Articles 4 and 9 of the regulation.
The proposal seeks to replace this legislative act. - Consistency with other policies and objectives of the Union The proposal seeks to replace the existing regulation in order to bring forward better legislation, based on four principles: that of simplification, harmonisation, clarification and enhancing the levels of security. 2.
Rather, what is proposed is a change in the balance of the legislative provisions between those that are laid down in the framework legislation (current Regulation (EC) No 2320/2002, as amended by Regulation (EC) No 849/2003) and those laid down in implementing legislation, of which there are currently seven acts: Commission Regulations (EC) Nos 622/2003, 1217/2003, 1486/2003, 68/2004, 1138/2004, 781/2005 and 857/2005.
This action is foreseen in the 2005 Work Programme of the Commission and its intended completion date is the end of 2005.
The adoption of the proposal would lead to the repealing of Regulation 2320/2002 and also Regulation 849/2004 which amended it.
Article 1 does not differ in any significant way from Article 1 of Regulation (EC) No 2320/2002.
Article 2 addresses the scope.
Article 3 lays down definitions.
Article 4 refers to the common standards that are to be laid down in Community law, including those measures that should be addressed in implementing legislation.
Article 5 permits Member States to apply more stringent security measures.
The principle is unchanged from Article 6 of Regulation (EC) No 2320/2002.
Actions by Member States in response to specific threat information should not be prejudiced by this legislation and so heightened security requirements for individual flights would fall outside the requirements of this article.
Article 6 is new.
Article 13 lays down an obligation for each Member State to undertake compliance monitoring activities by means of a national quality control programme.
Article 14 allows for Commission inspections of, inter alia, Community airports.
Article 15 addresses the dissemination of information.
Article 16 lays down the Committee to assist the Commission in the development of implementing legislation.
It is substantively unchanged from Article 9 in Regulation (EC) No 2320/2002.
Article 18 obliges to have penalties against those that fail to adhere to the Community requirements for aviation security.
Articles 19 and 20 repeal the existing regulation and replace it with this new act.
This objective should be achieved by setting common rules and common standards on aviation security as well as mechanisms for monitoring compliance. (2) It is desirable, in the interests of civil aviation security generally, to provide the basis for a common interpretation of the April 2002 issue of Annex 17 to the Chicago Convention on International Civil Aviation of 7 December 1944. (3) Regulation (EC) No 2320/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2002 establishing common rules in the field of civil aviation security[5] was adopted as a result of the events of 11 September 2001 in the United States. (4) The content of Regulation (EC) No 2320/2002 should be revised in the light of the experience gained, and the Regulation itself should be replaced by a new act seeking the simplification, harmonisation and clarification of the existing rules and the improvement of the levels of security. (5) Given the need for more flexibility in adopting security measures and procedures in order to meet evolving risk assessments and to allow new technologies to be introduced, the new act should lay down the basic principles of what has to be done in order to safeguard civil aviation against acts of unlawful interference without going into technical and procedural details on how they are to be implemented. (6) The new act should apply to airports serving civil aviation located in the territory of a Member State, to operators providing services at such airports and to entities providing goods and/or services to or through such airports. (7) Without prejudice to the Convention on offences and certain other acts committed on board aircraft, Tokyo, 1963, the Convention for the suppression of unlawful seizure of aircraft, The Hague, 1970 and the Convention for the suppression of unlawful acts against the safety of civil aviation, Montreal 1971, the new act should cover security measures that apply on board an aircraft, or during a flight, of Community air carriers. (8) The various types of civil aviation do not necessarily present the same level of threat.
However, it should be possible for the Commission to examine those more stringent measures and to decide whether a Member State may continue to apply them. (10) Third countries may require the application of measures that differ from those laid down in this act in respect of flights from an airport in a Member State to, or over, that third country.
However, without prejudice to any bilateral agreements to which the Community is a party, it should be possible for the Commission to examine the measures required by the third country and to decide whether a Member State, operator or other entity concerned may continue to apply the measures required. (11) Even though, within a single Member State, there may be two or more bodies or entities involved in aviation security, each Member State should designate a single authority responsible for the coordination and monitoring of the implementation of security standards. (12) In order to define responsibilities for the implementation of the common standards and to describe what measures are required by operators and other entities for this purpose, each Member State should draw up a national civil aviation security programme.
Furthermore, each airport operator, air carrier and entity applying aviation security standards should draw up, apply and maintain a security programme in order to comply both with the new act and with whichever national civil aviation security programme is applicable. (13) In order to monitor compliance with the new act and with the national civil aviation security programme, each Member State should draw up and ensure the implementation of a national programme to check the quality of civil aviation security. (14) In order to monitor the application by Member States of the new act, and also to identify weak points in aviation security, the Commission should conduct inspections, including unannounced inspections. (15) Implementing acts setting out common measures and procedures for the implementation of the common standards and containing sensitive security information, together with Commission inspection reports and answers of national authorities should be regarded as “EU classified information” within the meaning of Commission Decision 2001/844/EC, ECSC, Euratom of 29 November 2001 amending its internal rules of procedure[6].
Article 2 Scope This Regulation shall apply to the following: a) all airports serving civil aviation located in the territory of a Member State; b) all operators, including air carriers, providing services at airports referred to in point (a); c) all entities operating from premises located inside or outside airport premises and providing goods and/or services to or through airports referred to in point (a).
Article 4 Common standards 1.
Detailed measures and procedures for the implementation of the common standards referred to in paragraph 1 shall be laid down in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 16(2).
Member States shall ensure the application of the common standards referred to in paragraph 1.
Article 5 More stringent measures applied by Member States 1.
Member States may apply more stringent measures than the common standards as laid down in Article 4.
The Commission may examine the application of paragraph 1 and, after consulting the Committee referred to in Article 16(1), may decide whether the Member State is allowed to continue to apply the measures.
The second subparagraph of paragraph 1, and paragraph 2, shall not apply if the more stringent measures are limited to a given flight on a specific date.
Article 6 Security measures required by third countries 1.
Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if: a) the Member State concerned applies the measures concerned in accordance with Article 5; or b) the requirement of the third country is limited to a given flight on a specific date.
Article 7 National authority Where, within a single Member State, two or more bodies or entities are involved in aviation security, that Member State shall designate a single authority (hereinafter referred to as “the national authority”) to be responsible for the coordination and monitoring of the implementation of the common standards referred to in Article 4.
Article 8 Programmes Member States, airport operators, air carriers and other entities applying aviation security standards shall be responsible for drawing up, applying and maintaining their respective security programmes in the manner set out in Articles 9 to 12.
Member States shall additionally perform the broad quality-control function defined in Article 13.
Article 9 National civil aviation security programme 1.
That programme shall define responsibilities for the implementation of the common standards referred to in Article 4 and shall describe the measures required by operators and other entities for this purpose. 2.
The national authority shall make available in writing the appropriate parts of its national civil aviation security programme to operators and entities with a legitimate interest.
That programme shall describe the methods and procedures which are to be followed by the airport operator in order to comply both with this Regulation and with the national civil aviation security programme of the Member State in which the airport is located.
Article 11 Air carrier security programme 1.
That programme shall describe the methods and procedures which are to be followed by the air carrier in order to comply both with this Regulation and with the national civil aviation security programme of the Member State from which it provides services.
Article 12 Security programme of an entity applying aviation security standards 1.
That programme shall describe the methods and procedures which are to be followed by the entity in order to comply both with this Regulation and with the national civil aviation security programme of the Member State in which it is located.
Article 13 National quality control programme 1.
The specifications for the national quality control programme shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 16(2).
Article 14 Commission inspections 1.
The procedures for conducting Commission inspections shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 16(2). 2.
Article 16 Committee 1.
Article 17 Third countries Agreements recognising that the security standards applied in a third country are equivalent to Community standards may be concluded between the Community and a third country in accordance with Article 300 of the Treaty.
Article 18 Penalties Member States shall lay down the rules on penalties applicable to infringements of the provisions of this Regulation and shall take all measures necessary to ensure that they are implemented.
Article 19 Repeal Regulation (EC) No 2320/2002 is repealed.
Article 20 Entry into force This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union .
At airports the following areas shall be established: a) landside; b) airside; c) security restricted areas; and d) critical parts of security restricted areas. 1.2 Access control 1.
This shall not apply to flight crew members that have been issued with crew identification cards as referred to in paragraph 4. 1.3 Screening of persons other than passengers and items carried 1.
AIRCRAFT SECURITY 1.
All hold baggage shall be screened prior to being loaded onto an aircraft. 2.
CARGO 6.1 Security controls for cargo 1.
All cargo shall be subjected to security controls prior to being loaded on an aircraft.
IN-FLIGHT SUPPLIES In-flight supplies, including catering, intended for carriage or use on board an aircraft shall be subjected to security controls and thereafter protected until loaded onto the aircraft in order to prevent prohibited articles from being introduced on board an aircraft. 9.
Paragraphs 1 to 5 shall apply only to Community air carriers. 11.
Training as referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall be conducted on initial and recurrent basis. 4.
