The purposes of the Strategy are to: - Provide a long-term line of action for the Commission with the goal of achieving a significant reduction of the level of IPR violations in third countries; - Describe, prioritise and coordinate the mechanisms available to the Commission services for achieving their goal [3]; - Inform right-holders and other entities concerned of the means and actions already available and to be implemented, and raise their awareness for the importance of their participation. - Enhance cooperation with right-holders and other private entities concerned, by seeking their input on the identification of priorities and establishing public-private partnerships in fields like technical assistance, information to the public, etc.
This will result in an increased exchange of information and even in participation in joint initiatives in third countries.
It must be perceived as a priority concern. - This commitment to include IPR enforcement in the political dialogue is illustrated by the following initiatives: - At the EU — Japan Summit of 2003, the Commission and Japan agreed to establish an improved dialogue in a number of areas, including IPR.
The figures for 2003 can be found at:http://europa.eu.int/comm/taxation_customs/customs/counterfeit_piracy/index_en.htm [7] Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property, Annex 1C to the Agreement establishing the World Trade Organisation (TRIPs, Marrakesh 1994). [8] Article 51 of the TRIPs Agreement only stipulates the obligation for Members to have in place customs measures for imported goods. [9] EC-ASEAN IPR Programme comprises a regional and a national component and covers all areas of IPR.
The internal instruments available to Community right-holders in the case of violations of their rights within the Community or in the case of imports of fake goods into the EU are not usable when these violations occur in third countries and the resulting goods are either consumed domestically or exported to other third countries.
It also represents the European Community at the WTO and notably at the TRIPs Council. - DG Internal Market (MARKT) is responsible for EU intellectual and industrial property policy and legislation and represents and leads negotiations on behalf of the European Community in various committees in WIPO.
