Article 4 For the purposes of applying Article 5 of Regulation (EC) No 847/2004, Community air carriers established in France are requested to make their applications known within fifteen days of the publication of the availability of traffic rights.
Article 5 In the event of competing applications and the limitation of either the traffic rights or the number of Community air carriers permitted to exercise these rights, files shall be assessed within two months as long as the applications meet the conditions laid down in Article 2 of this Order; as part of the assessment of applications, the Minister responsible for civil aviation may ask for additional information and, where appropriate, hold hearings.
In all cases, the operating licence shall be issued to the applicant air carrier under the conditions provided for in Article 8 of this Order, as long as the application meets the conditions laid down in Article 2 herein.
The final decision on issuing a licence to operate air services shall be taken under the conditions laid down in Article 8 of this Order within thirty days of publication of the draft Decision.
Article 8 The licence to operate air services shall be granted by order of the Minister responsible for civil aviation, published in the Journal officiel.
In the event of failure to comply with the criteria laid down in Article 2 of this Order, a serious breach in air safety, the written withdrawal of a carrier from operation of the respective air service, or the complete or partial failure to make use of the traffic rights for a period equal to or exceeding six months, the licence may be suspended or withdrawn by reasoned decision of the Minister responsible for civil aviation, once the carrier has been asked to present its explanations.
If a carrier authorised under Article 6 of this Order fails to comply with the commitments it has entered into under this Order, the Minister may also suspend or withdraw the licence.
Article 9 The provisions of this Order shall not apply to the regional authorities of St Pierre-et-Miquelon.
Article 10 The Director-General for Civil Aviation shall be responsible for the implementation of this Order, which will be published in the Journal officiel.
Done at Paris, on 20 September 2005.
