[pic] | COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES | Brussels, 29.7.2005 COM(2005) 349 final 2005/0143 (CNS) Proposal for a COUNCIL DECISION on the signature and provisional application of the Agreement between the European Community and the Republic of Albania on certain aspects of air services Proposal for a COUNCIL DECISION on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Community and the Republic of Albania on certain aspects of air services (presented by the Commission) EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM International aviation relations between Member States and third countries have been traditionally governed by bilateral air services agreements between Member States and third countries, their Annexes and other related bilateral or multilateral arrangements.
Article 2 of the Agreement replaces the traditional designation clauses with a Community designation clause, permitting all Community carriers to benefit from the right of establishment.
Article 5 (Pricing) resolves conflicts between the existing bilateral air services agreements and Council Regulation No. 2409/92 on fares and rates for air services which prohibits third country carriers from being price leaders on air services for carriage wholly within the Community.
The Council has authorised the Commission on 5 June 2003 to open negotiations with third countries on the replacement of certain provisions in existing bilateral agreements with a Community agreement; 2.
Done at Brussels, For the Council The President 2005/0143 (CNS) Proposal for a COUNCIL DECISION on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Community and the Republic of Albania on certain aspects of air services THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular Article 80, paragraph 2, in conjunction with Article 300, paragraph 2, first sentence of the first subparagraph thereof and Article 300, paragraph 3, first subparagraph, Having regard to the proposal from the Commission[3], Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament[4], Whereas: (1) The Council has authorised the Commission on 5 June 2003 to open negotiations with third countries on the replacement of certain provisions in existing bilateral agreements with a Community agreement; (2) The Commission has negotiated on behalf of the Community an agreement with the Republic of Albania on certain aspects of air services in accordance with the mechanisms and directives in the Annex to the Council’s decision authorising the Commission to open negotiations with third countries on the replacement of certain provisions in existing bilateral agreements with a Community agreement; (3) This agreement has been signed on behalf of the Community on subject to its possible conclusion at a later date, in conformity with the decision …/…/EC of the Council on [...][5]; (4) This agreement should be approved.
Article 2 The president of the Council is authorised to designate the person empowered to make the notification provided in Article 8.1 of the Agreement.
References in each of the agreements listed in Annex 1 to nationals of the Member State that is a party to that agreement shall be understood as referring to nationals of the Member States of the European Community. 3.
Article 2 Designation by a Member State 1.
the air carrier is owned and shall continue to be owned directly or through majority ownership by Member States and/or nationals of Member States, and/or by other states listed in Annex 3 and/or nationals of such other states, and shall at all times be effectively controlled by such states and/or such nationals. 3.
the air carrier is not owned, directly or through majority ownership, or it is not effectively controlled by Member States and/or nationals of Member States, and/or by other states listed in Annex 3 and/or nationals of such other states.
Article 3 Rights with regard to regulatory control 1.
The provisions in paragraph 2 of this Article shall complement the articles listed in Annex 2 (c). 2.
The provisions in paragraph 2 of this Article shall complement the corresponding provisions in the articles listed in Annex 2 (d). 2.
The provisions in paragraph 2 of this Article shall complement the articles listed in Annex 2 (e). 2.
Article 8 Entry into force and provisional application 1.
Article 9 Termination 1.
