It therefore endorsed the principle of mutual recognition as the cornerstone of judicial cooperation in both civil and criminal matters, which should also apply to pre-trial orders.
In its Report on the situation of fundamental rights in the European Union and its Member States in 2002, the EU network of independent experts in fundamental rights referred to statistics of the Council of Europe that show high numbers of pre-trial detainees in several Member States.
Moreover, the replies to a questionnaire on statistical data on the prison population, including pre-trial detention that the Commission drew up in 2003 at the request of the Italian Presidency, show that there are considerable differences between the EU Member States both as regards the rate of pre-trial detention per 100 000 inhabitants and the proportion of own nationals in relation to foreign detainees.
Consistency with other policies and objectives of the Union The general aim of this proposal for a Council Framework Decision is to reinforce the right to liberty and the presumption of innocence in the European Union seen as a whole and promote equal treatment of all citizens in the common area of freedom, security and justice.
This aim is consistent with The Hague Programme on strengthening freedom, security and justice in the European Union, approved by the European Council on 5 November 2004.
In particular, the present proposal should be seen in connection with the Commission proposal for a Council Framework Decision on certain procedural rights in criminal proceedings throughout the European Union (2004) [4], which, i.a., contains provisions on the right to legal advice and interpretation. 2.
The questions concerned the legitimate grounds for pre-trial detention - i.a., the threshold for remanding a suspect in custody (linked to the penalty for the offence); whether there were any maximum time limits for pre-trial detention; the grounds for pre-trial detention (degree of suspicion and the “special grounds”); whether there was a presumption in favour of remanding suspects into custody for serious offences; the different “alternative” measures to pre-trial detention; whether a breach of an obligation under a pre-trial supervision measure constituted a criminal offence; the competent legal authorities in this area; and special categories and treatment of detainees.
Eurojust was also represented.
On 17 August 2004, the Commission adopted the Green Paper on mutual recognition of non-custodial pre-trial supervision measures [5] and the associated Commission Staff Working Paper [6], which take fully account of the outcome of the first (preparatory) experts’ meeting as well as the information provided in the replies to the first questionnaire (mentioned above).
When drafting the Green Paper, the Commission also had access to documents of the Committee of Experts on remand in custody and its implications for the management of penal institutions (PC-DP) of the Council of Europe (where the Commission participated as an observer), in particular a questionnaire on the law and practice of Member States regarding remand in custody, including an analysis of the replies to this questionnaire.
The questions posed in the Green Paper were discussed in a second experts’ meeting on 4 – 5 November 2004.
After having considered the written responses [7] to the Green Paper, the Commission organised a third experts’ meeting on 8 April 2005.
It would extend the right to liberty and the presumption of innocence to the Union seen as a whole, be compatible with the general principles in the area, in particular the principle of proportionality, and would reduce costs for detention.
It is considered that this approach would be unlikely to succeed since it would require uniformity of national provisions across 25 Member States acting separately.
Budgetary implication The implementation of the proposed Framework Decision would entail no additional operational expenditure to be charged to the budgets of the Member States or to the budget of the European Union. 2006/0158 (CNS) Proposal for a COUNCIL FRAMEWORK DECISION on the European supervision order in pre-trial procedures between Member States of the European Union THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty on European Union, and in particular Article 31(1)(a) and (c) and Article 34(2)(b) thereof, Having regard to the proposal from the Commission [9], Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament [10], Whereas: (1) The European Union has set itself the objective of maintaining and developing an area of freedom, security and justice. (2) According to the Conclusions of the Tampere European Council of 15 and 16 October 1999, and in particular point 36 thereof, the principle of mutual recognition should apply to pre-trial orders.
The programme of measures to implement the principle of mutual recognition in criminal matters addresses mutual recognition of supervision measures in its measure 10. (3) The measures provided for in this Framework Decision should aim in particular at enhancing the right to liberty and the presumption of innocence in the European Union seen as a whole and at ensuring cooperation between Member States when a person is subject to obligations or supervision pending a court decision. (4) In the area of pre-trial detention, there is a risk of different treatment between suspects who are resident in the trial state and those who are not: a non-resident risks being remanded in custody pending trial even where, in similar circumstances, a resident would not.
It should further not prevent the executing Member State from initiating or pursuing criminal proceedings of its own. (7) Since mutual recognition of pre-trial supervision measures cannot be sufficiently achieved by the Member States acting unilaterally and can therefore, by reason of its scale and effects, be better achieved at Union level, the Council may adopt measures in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity as referred to in Article 2 of the Treaty on European Union and Article 5 of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
Article 2 Definitions For the purposes of this Framework Decision: (a) “issuing State” means the Member State in whose territory the European supervision order is issued; (b) “executing State” means the Member State in whose territory the European supervision order is executed; (c) “issuing authority” means a court, a judge, an investigating magistrate or a public prosecutor, with competence under national law to issue a European supervision order; (d) “executing authority” means a court, a judge, an investigating magistrate or a public prosecutor, with competence under national law to execute a European supervision order.
Article 3 Obligation to execute the European supervision order Member States shall execute any European supervision order on the basis of the principle of mutual recognition and in accordance with the provisions of this Framework Decision.
Article 4 Determination of competent authorities Each Member State shall inform the Council as to which authorities are competent under its national law to issue and to execute a European supervision order.
CHAPTER 2 - THE EUROPEAN SUPERVISION ORDER Article 5 Information of the suspect 1.
A European supervision order may be issued by the issuing authority after having informed the suspect of any obligations to be imposed pursuant to Article 6 and of the consequences, in particular of those set out in Articles 17 and 18. 2.
Article 6 Imposition of pre-trial supervision measures and obligations of the suspect 1.
Any obligations imposed by the issuing authority in accordance with paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of this Article shall be recorded in the European supervision order. 4.
CHAPTER 3 - PROCEDURE Article 8 Transmission 1.
If the authority in the executing State which receives the European supervision order is not the competent executing authority under Article 4, it shall automatically transmit the European supervision order to the competent authority for execution and shall inform the issuing authority accordingly.
Article 9 Recognition and execution Except as otherwise provided for in this Framework Decision, the executing authority shall recognise a European supervision order, transmitted in accordance with Article 8, without any further formality being required, and shall forthwith take the necessary measures for its execution.
Article 10 Grounds for non-recognition and non-execution 1.
A court, a judge, an investigating magistrate or a public prosecutor, in the requested State shall refuse to recognise and execute a European supervision order if it is clear that criminal proceedings for the offence in respect of which that order has been issued would infringe the ne bis in idem principle. 2.
Article 11 Guarantees to be given by the issuing State in particular cases Where a person who is the subject of a European supervision order is a national or resident of the executing State, the execution of the order may be subject to the condition that the person, after being tried, is transferred to the executing State in order to serve there custodial sentence or detention order passed against him in the issuing State.
Article 12 Decision on enforcement 1.
The competent authority in the requested State shall inform the issuing authority of that decision by any means capable of producing a written record. 2.
Where in exceptional cases it is not possible to take a decision on the recognition and execution of the European supervision order within the period laid down in paragraph 1, the competent authority in the requested State shall without delay, inform the issuing authority thereof, of the reasons therefore and of the number of days required to take the decision. 3.
Article 13 Requests for review 1.
The executing authority may request the issuing authority to review the European supervision order 60 days after it has been issued or last reviewed. 3.
The suspect shall have the right to be heard by the issuing authority, in accordance with the law of the issuing State.
The executing State may assign a person designated in accordance with the law of that Member State to take part in the hearing of the suspect. 6.
The issuing authority shall forthwith communicate its decision to the suspect and the executing authority. 8.
Article 14 Revocation 1.
CHAPTER 4 - SPECIFIC SITUATIONS Article 15 Competing obligations to surrender or extradite on the part of the executing State The existence of a European supervision order shall be without prejudice to the executing Member State’s obligations under: (a) a European arrest warrant under Council Framework Decision 2002/584/JHA; (b) a request for extradition presented by a third country; (c) the Statute of the International Criminal Court.
CHAPTER 5 - BREACH OF A EUROPEAN SUPERVISION ORDER Article 16 Obligation to report any breach 1.
Article 17 Consequences of breach 1.
Article 18 Conditions for arrest and transfer of the suspect 1.
If the suspect consents to his transfer the Member State on whose territory the suspect is arrested shall forthwith transfer him to the issuing State. 3.
Article 19 Notification of decisions The issuing authority shall immediately notify the executing authority of all decisions taken under Article 17.
Article 20 Time limits for transfer 1.
Member States shall communicate this designation to the Council. 3.
The transit request and the information provided for in paragraph 1 may be addressed to the authority designated pursuant to paragraph 2 by any means capable of producing a written record.
CHAPTER 6 - GENERAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS Article 23 Monitoring the effectiveness of the Framework Decision 1.
Article 24 Relation to other agreements and arrangements 1.
The agreements and arrangements referred to in paragraph 1 shall in no case affect relations with Member States which are not parties to them. 3.
Article 25 Implementation Member States shall take the necessary measures to comply with the provisions of this Framework Decision by 0 Month 0000.
Article 26 Report The Commission shall, by 0 Month 0000, submit a report to the European Parliament and to the Council, assessing the extent to which the Member States have taken the necessary measures in order to comply with this Framework Decision, accompanied, if necessary, by legislative proposals.
Article 27 Entry into force This Framework Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Done at Luxembourg/Brussels, 0 Month 0000 For the Council The President N.N.
