Common Position (EC) No 7/2006 of 10 March 2006 adopted by the Council, acting in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 251 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, with a view to adopting a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on medical products for paediatric use and amending Regulation (EEC) No 1768/92, Directive 2001/20/EC, Directive 2001/83/EC and Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 Common Position (EC) No 7/2006 adopted by the Council on 10 May 2006 with a view to adopting Regulation (EC) No …/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council of … on medicinal products for paediatric use and amending Regulation (EEC) No 1768/92, Directive 2001/20/EC, Directive 2001/83/EC and Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 (2006/C 132 E/01) (Text with EEA relevance) THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular Article 95 thereof, Having regard to the proposal from the Commission, Having regard to the opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee [1], Having consulted the Committee of the Regions, Acting in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 251 of the Treaty [2], Whereas: (1) Before a medicinal product for human use is placed on the market in one or more Member States, it generally has to have undergone extensive studies, including pre-clinical tests and clinical trials, to ensure that it is safe, of high quality and effective for use in the target population. (2) Such studies may not have been undertaken for use in the paediatric population and many of the medicinal products currently used to treat the paediatric population have not been studied or authorised for such use.
As the development of medicinal products is a dynamic process dependent on the result of ongoing studies, provision should be made for modifying an agreed plan where necessary. (11) It is necessary to introduce a requirement for new medicinal products and for authorised medicinal products covered by a patent or a supplementary protection certificate to present either the results of studies in the paediatric population in accordance with an agreed paediatric investigation plan or proof of having obtained a waiver or deferral, at the time of filing a marketing authorisation application or an application for a new indication, new pharmaceutical form or new route of administration.
However, that requirement should not apply to generics or similar biological medicinal products and medicinal products authorised through the well-established medicinal use procedure, nor to homeopathic medicinal products and traditional herbal medicinal products authorised through the simplified registration procedures of Directive 2001/83/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 6 November 2001 on the Community code relating to medicinal products for human use [4]. (12) Provision should be made for research into the paediatric use of medicinal products which are not protected by a patent or supplementary protection certificate to be financed under Community research programmes. (13) In order to ensure that research in the paediatric population is only conducted to meet their therapeutic needs, there is a need to establish procedures for the Agency to waive the requirement referred to in recital 11 for specific products or for classes or part of classes of medicinal products, these waivers being then made public by the Agency.
However, if a waiver is revoked, that requirement should not apply for a given period in order to allow time for at least a paediatric investigation plan to be agreed and studies in the paediatric population to be initiated before an application for marketing authorisation is submitted. (14) In certain cases, the Agency should defer the initiation or completion of some or all of the measures contained in a paediatric investigation plan, with a view to ensuring that research is conducted only when safe and ethical and that the requirement for study data in the paediatric population does not block or delay the authorisation of medicinal products for other populations. (15) Free scientific advice should be provided by the Agency as an incentive to sponsors developing medicinal products for the paediatric population.
However, from the requirement referred to in recital 11 it follows that competent authorities should check compliance with the agreed paediatric investigation plan and any waivers and deferrals at the existing validation step for marketing authorisation applications.
When all the measures in the paediatric investigation plan have been complied with, that fact should be recorded in the marketing authorisation, and should then be the basis upon which companies can obtain the rewards for compliance. (18) In order to identify medicinal products authorised for use in the paediatric population and enable their prescription, provision should be made for the labels of medicinal products granted an indication for use in the paediatric population to display a symbol which will be selected by the Commission on a recommendation by the Paediatric Committee. (19) In order to establish incentives for authorised products no longer covered by intellectual property rights, it is necessary to establish a new type of marketing authorisation, the Paediatric Use Marketing Authorisation.
A Paediatric Use Marketing Authorisation should be granted through existing marketing authorisation procedures but should apply specifically for medicinal products developed exclusively for use in the paediatric population.
It should be possible for the name of the medicinal product that has been granted a Paediatric Use Marketing Authorisation to retain the existing brand name of the corresponding product authorised for adults, in order to capitalise on existing brand recognition, while benefiting from the data exclusivity associated with a new marketing authorisation. (20) An application for a Paediatric Use Marketing Authorisation should include the submission of data concerning use of the product in the paediatric population, collected in accordance with an agreed paediatric investigation plan.
An application for a Paediatric Use Marketing Authorisation should also be able to refer to data contained in the dossier of a medicinal product which is or has been authorised in the Community.
An application for a marketing authorisation, including an application for a Paediatric Use Marketing Authorisation, which contains the results of studies conducted in compliance with an agreed paediatric investigation plan should be eligible for the Community centralised procedure set out in Articles 5 to 15 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 31 March 2004 laying down Community procedures for the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use and establishing a European Medicines Agency [5]. (22) When an agreed paediatric investigation plan has led to the authorisation of a paediatric indication for a product already marketed for other indications, the marketing authorisation holder should be obliged to place the product on the market, taking into account the paediatric information, within two years of the date of approval of the indication.
Additionally, where there is a particular cause for concern, provision should be made for the possibility of requiring the applicant to submit and implement a risk management system and/or perform specific post-marketing studies as a condition for the granting of the marketing authorisation. (25) It is necessary in the interests of public health to ensure the continuing availability of safe and effective medicinal products authorised for paediatric indications developed as a result of this Regulation.
In order to help achieve this, the Agency should be informed in good time of any such intention and should make that intention public. (26) For products falling within the scope of the requirement to submit paediatric data, if all the measures included in the agreed paediatric investigation plan are complied with, if the product is authorised in all Member States and if relevant information on the results of studies is included in product information, a reward should be granted in the form of a 6-month extension of the supplementary protection certificate created by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1768/92 [6]. (27) An application for an extension of the duration of the certificate pursuant to this Regulation should only be admissible where a certificate is granted pursuant to Regulation (EEC) No 1768/92. (28) Because the reward is for conducting studies in the paediatric population and not for demonstrating that a product is safe and effective in the paediatric population, the reward should be granted even when a paediatric indication is not authorised.
However, to improve the information available on the use of medicinal products in the paediatric population, relevant information on use in paediatric populations should be included in authorised product information. (29) Under Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 1999 on orphan medicinal products [7], medicinal products designated as orphan medicinal products gain 10 years of market exclusivity on the granting of a marketing authorisation for the orphan indication.
The measures set out in this Regulation, including the agreement of paediatric investigation plans, should not be grounds for obtaining any other Community incentives to support research, such as the funding of research projects under the multi-annual Community Framework Programmes for Research, Technological Development and Demonstration Activities. (31) In order to increase the availability of information on the use of medicinal products in the paediatric population, and to avoid unnecessary repetition of studies in the paediatric population which do not add to the collective knowledge, the European database provided for in Article 11 of Directive 2001/20/EC should include a European register of clinical trials of medicinal products for paediatric use comprising all ongoing, prematurely terminated, and completed paediatric studies conducted both in the Community and in third countries.
In this way the data could be assessed and, if appropriate, information should be included in the authorised product information aimed at healthcare professionals and patients. (35) Community funding should be provided to cover all aspects of the work of the Paediatric Committee and of the Agency resulting from the implementation of this Regulation, such as the assessment of paediatric investigation plans, fee waivers for scientific advice, and information and transparency measures, including the database of paediatric studies and the network. (36) The measures necessary for the implementation of this Regulation should be adopted in accordance with Council Decision 1999/468/EC of 28 June 1999 laying down the procedures for the exercise of implementing powers conferred on the Commission. [8] (37) Regulation (EEC) No 1768/92, Directive 2001/20/EC, Directive 2001/83/EC and Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 should therefore be amended accordingly. (38) Since the objective of this Regulation, namely improving availability of medicinal products tested for paediatric use, cannot be sufficiently achieved by the Member States and can therefore be better achieved at Community level, given that this will make it possible to take advantage of the widest possible market and avoid the dispersion of limited resources, the Community may adopt measures, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity as set out in Article 5 of the Treaty.
Article 2 In addition to the definitions laid down in Article 1 of Directive 2001/83/EC, the following definitions shall apply for the purposes of this Regulation: 1. "paediatric population" means that part of the population aged between birth and 18 years; 2. "paediatric investigation plan" means a research and development programme aimed at ensuring that the necessary data are generated determining the conditions in which a medicinal product may be authorised to treat the paediatric population; 3. "medicinal product authorised for a paediatric indication" means a medicinal product which is authorised for use in part or all of the paediatric population and in respect of which the details of the authorised indication are specified in the summary of the product characteristics drawn up in accordance with Article 11 of Directive 2001/83/EC; 4. "paediatric use marketing authorisation" means a marketing authorisation granted in respect of a medicinal product for human use which is not protected by a supplementary protection certificate under Regulation (EEC) No 1768/92 or by a patent which qualifies for the granting of the supplementary protection certificate, covering exclusively therapeutic indications which are relevant for use in the paediatric population, or subsets thereof, including the appropriate strength, pharmaceutical form or route of administration for that product.
CHAPTER 2 Paediatric Committee Article 3 1.
The Paediatric Committee shall be considered as established once the members referred to in Article 4(1)(a) and (b) have been appointed.
The tasks of the Paediatric Committee shall include the following: (a) to assess the content of any paediatric investigation plan for a medicinal product submitted to it in accordance with this Regulation and formulate an opinion thereon; (b) to assess waivers and deferrals and formulate an opinion thereon; (c) at the request of the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use, a competent authority or the applicant, to assess compliance of the application for a Marketing Authorisation with the concerned agreed paediatric investigation plan and formulate an opinion thereon; (d) at the request of the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use or a competent authority, to assess any data generated in accordance with an agreed paediatric investigation plan and formulate an opinion on the quality, safety or efficacy of the medicinal product for use in the paediatric population; (e) to advise on the content and format of data to be collected for the survey referred to in Article 42; (f) to support and advise the Agency on establishing the European network referred to in Article 44; (g) to assist scientifically in the elaboration of any documents related to the fulfilment of the objectives of this Regulation; (h) to provide advice on any question related to medicinal products for use in the paediatric population, at the request of the Executive Director of the Agency or the Commission; (i) to establish a specific inventory of paediatric medicinal product needs and update it on a regular basis, as referred to in Article 43; (j) to advise the Agency and the Commission regarding the communication of arrangements available for conducting research into medicinal products for use in the paediatric population; (k) to make a recommendation to the Commission on the symbol referred to in Article 32(2). 2.
TITLE II MARKETING AUTHORISATION REQUIREMENTS CHAPTER 1 General authorisation requirements Article 7 1.
An application for marketing authorisation under Article 6 of Directive 2001/83/EC in respect of a medicinal product for human use which is not authorised in the Community at the time of entry into force of this Regulation shall be regarded as valid only if it includes, in addition to the particulars and documents referred to in Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC, one of the following: (a) the results of all studies performed and details of all information collected in compliance with an agreed paediatric investigation plan; (b) a decision of the Agency granting a product-specific waiver; (c) a decision of the Agency granting a class waiver pursuant to Article 11; (d) a decision of the Agency granting a deferral.
For the purposes of point (a), the decision of the Agency agreeing the paediatric investigation plan concerned shall also be included in the application. 2.
Article 8 In the case of authorised medicinal products which are protected either by a supplementary protection certificate under Regulation (EEC) No 1768/92, or by a patent which qualifies for the granting of the supplementary protection certificate, Article 7 of this Regulation shall apply to applications for authorisation of new indications, including paediatric indications, new pharmaceutical forms and new routes of administration.
For the purposes of the first subparagraph, the documents referred to in Article 7(1) shall cover both the existing and the new indications, pharmaceutical forms and routes of administration.
Article 9 Articles 7 and 8 shall not apply to products authorised under Articles 10, 10a, 13 to 16 or 16a to 16i of Directive 2001/83/EC.
Article 10 In consultation with the Member States, the Agency and other interested parties, the Commission shall draw up the detailed arrangements concerning the format and content which applications for agreement or modification of a paediatric investigation plan and requests for waivers or deferrals must follow in order to be considered valid and concerning the operation of the compliance check referred to in Articles 23 and 28(3).
CHAPTER 2 Waivers Article 11 1.
Article 12 The Paediatric Committee may of its own motion adopt an opinion, on the grounds set out in Article 11(1), to the effect that a class or a product-specific waiver, as referred to in Article 11(1), should be granted.
As soon as the Paediatric Committee adopts an opinion, the procedure laid down in Article 25 shall apply.
Whenever appropriate, the Paediatric Committee may request the applicant to supplement the particulars and documents submitted.
As soon as the Paediatric Committee adopts an opinion, the procedure laid down in Article 25 shall apply.
The list shall be regularly updated (at least every year) and made available to the public. 2.
If a particular product-specific or class waiver is revoked, the requirement set out in Articles 7 and 8 shall not apply for 36 months from the date of the removal from the list of waivers.
CHAPTER 3 Paediatric investigation plan Section 1 Requests for agreement Article 15 1.
Where the intention is to apply for a marketing authorisation in accordance with Article 7(1)(a) or (d), Article 8 or Article 30, a paediatric investigation plan shall be drawn up and submitted to the Agency with a request for agreement. 2.
In the case of the applications referred to in Articles 7 and 8, the paediatric investigation plan shall be submitted with a request for agreement, unless otherwise justified, not later than upon completion of the human pharmaco-kinetic studies in adults specified in Section 5.2.3 of Part I of Annex I to Directive 2001/83/EC, so as to ensure that an opinion on use in the paediatric population of the medicinal product concerned can be given at the time of the assessment of the marketing authorisation or other application concerned. 2.
Within 30 days following receipt of the request referred to in paragraph 1 and in Article 15(1), the Agency shall verify the validity of the request and prepare a summary report for the Paediatric Committee. 3.
Within the 60-day period referred to in paragraph 1, the Paediatric Committee may request the applicant to propose modifications to the plan, in which case the time-limit referred to in paragraph 1 for the adoption of the final opinion shall be extended for a maximum of 60 days.
Article 18 As soon as the Paediatric Committee adopts an opinion, whether positive or negative, the procedure laid down in Article 25 shall apply.
Article 19 If, having considered a paediatric investigation plan, the Paediatric Committee concludes that Article 11(1)(a), (b) or (c) applies to the medicinal product concerned, it shall adopt a negative opinion under Article 17(1).
In such cases, the Paediatric Committee shall adopt an opinion in favour of a waiver under Article 12, whereupon the procedure laid down in Article 25 shall apply.
Section 2 Deferrals Article 20 1.
At the same time as the paediatric investigation plan is submitted under Article 16(1), a request may be made for deferral of the initiation or completion of some or all of the measures set out in that plan.
At the same time as the Paediatric Committee adopts a positive opinion under Article 17(1), it shall, of its own motion or following a request submitted by the applicant under Article 20, adopt an opinion, if the conditions specified in Article 20 are met, in favour of deferring the initiation or completion of some or all of the measures in the paediatric investigation plan.
An opinion in favour of a deferral shall specify the time-limits for initiating or completing the measures concerned. 2.
As soon as the Paediatric Committee adopts an opinion in favour of deferral, as referred to in paragraph 1, the procedure laid down in Article 25 shall apply.
Section 3 Modification of a paediatric investigation plan Article 22 If, following the decision agreeing the paediatric investigation plan, the applicant encounters such difficulties with its implementation as to render the plan unworkable or no longer appropriate, the applicant may propose changes or request a deferral or a waiver, based on detailed grounds, to the Paediatric Committee.
As soon as the Paediatric Committee adopts an opinion, whether positive or negative, the procedure laid down in Article 25 shall apply.
Section 4 Compliance with the paediatric investigation plan Article 23 1.
The competent authority responsible for granting marketing authorisation shall verify whether an application for marketing authorisation or variation complies with the requirements laid down in Articles 7 and 8 and whether an application submitted pursuant to Article 30 complies with the agreed paediatric investigation plan.
Where the application is submitted in accordance with the procedure set out in Articles 27 to 39 of Directive 2001/83/EC, the verification of compliance, including, as appropriate, requesting an opinion of the Paediatric Committee in accordance with paragraph 2(b) and (c), shall be conducted by the reference Member State. 2.
The Paediatric Committee may, in the following cases, be requested to give its opinion as to whether studies conducted by the applicant are in compliance with the agreed paediatric investigation plan: (a) by the applicant, prior to submitting an application for marketing authorisation or variation as referred to in Articles 7, 8 and 30, respectively; (b) by the Agency, or the national competent authority, when validating an application, as referred to in point (a), which does not include an opinion concerning compliance adopted following a request under point (a); (c) by the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use, or the national competent authority, when assessing an application, as referred to in point (a), where there is doubt concerning compliance and an opinion has not been already given following a request under points (a) or (b).
If the Paediatric Committee is requested to give an opinion under paragraph 2, it shall do so within 60 days of receiving the request.
Article 24 If, when conducting the scientific assessment of a valid application for Marketing Authorisation, the competent authority concludes that the studies are not in conformity with the agreed paediatric investigation plan, the product shall not be eligible for the rewards and incentives provided for in Articles 36, 37 and 38.
CHAPTER 4 Procedure Article 25 1.
Within 30 days following receipt of the opinion of the Paediatric Committee, the applicant may submit to the Agency a written request, citing detailed grounds, for a re-examination of the opinion. 3.
Within 30 days following receipt of a request for re-examination pursuant to paragraph 2, the Paediatric Committee, having appointed a new rapporteur, shall issue a new opinion confirming or revising its previous opinion.
If, within the 30-day period referred to in paragraph 2, the applicant does not request re-examination, the opinion of the Paediatric Committee shall become definitive. 5.
In the case of a class waiver as referred to in Article 12, the Agency shall adopt a decision within 10 days following receipt of the opinion of the Paediatric Committee as referred to in Article 13(3).
CHAPTER 5 Miscellaneous provisions Article 26 Any legal or natural person developing a medicinal product intended for paediatric use may, prior to the submission of a paediatric investigation plan and during its implementation, request advice from the Agency on the design and conduct of the various tests and studies necessary to demonstrate the quality, safety and efficacy of the medicinal product in the paediatric population in accordance with Article 57(1)(n) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004.
In addition, this legal or natural person may request advice on the design and conduct of pharmacovigilance and risk management systems as referred to in Article 34.
TITLE III MARKETING AUTHORISATION PROCEDURES Article 27 Save where otherwise provided in this Title, marketing authorisation procedures for the marketing authorisations covered by this Title shall be governed by the provisions laid down in Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 or in Directive 2001/83/EC.
CHAPTER 1 Marketing authorisation procedures for applications falling within the scope of Articles 7 and 8 Article 28 1.
Applications may be submitted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Articles 5 to 15 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 for a marketing authorisation as referred to in Article 7(1) of this Regulation which includes one or more paediatric indications on the basis of studies conducted in compliance with an agreed paediatric investigation plan.
Where authorisation is granted, the results of all those studies shall be included in the summary of product characteristics and, if appropriate, in the package leaflet of the medicinal product, provided that the competent authority deems the information to be of use to patients, whether or not all the paediatric indications concerned were approved by the competent authority. 2.
If the application complies with all the measures contained in the agreed completed paediatric investigation plan and if the summary of product characteristics reflects the results of studies conducted in compliance with that agreed paediatric investigation plan, the competent authority shall include within the marketing authorisation a statement indicating compliance of the application with the agreed completed paediatric investigation plan.
For the purpose of the application of Article 45(3), this statement shall also indicate whether significant studies contained in the agreed Paediatric Investigation Plan have been completed after the entry into force of this Regulation.
Article 29 In the case of medicinal products authorised under Directive 2001/83/EC, an application as referred to in Article 8 of this Regulation may be submitted, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Articles 32, 33 and 34 of Directive 2001/83/EC, for authorisation of a new indication, including the extension of an authorisation for use in the paediatric population, a new pharmaceutical form or a new route of administration.
CHAPTER 2 Paediatric use marketing authorisation Article 30 1.
The application shall also include the decision of the Agency agreeing the paediatric investigation plan concerned. 3.
Where a medicinal product is or has been authorised in a Member State or in the Community, data contained in the dossier on that product may, where appropriate, be referred to, in accordance with Article 14(11) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 or Article 10 of Directive 2001/83/EC, in an application for a paediatric use marketing authorisation. 4.
Article 31 Without prejudice to Article 3(2) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004, an application for a paediatric use marketing authorisation may be made in accordance with the procedure laid down in Articles 5 to 15 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004.
CHAPTER 3 Identification Article 32 1.
Where a medicinal product is granted a marketing authorisation for a paediatric indication, the label shall display the symbol agreed in accordance with paragraph 2.
TITLE IV POST-AUTHORISATION REQUIREMENTS Article 33 Where medicinal products are authorised for a paediatric indication following completion of an agreed paediatric investigation plan and those products have already been marketed with other indications, the marketing authorisation holder shall, within two years of the date on which the paediatric indication is authorised, place the product on the market taking into account the paediatric indication.
In the following cases, the applicant shall detail, in addition to the normal requirements for post-marketing monitoring, the measures to ensure the follow-up of efficacy and of possible adverse reactions to the paediatric use of the medicinal product: (a) applications for a marketing authorisation that includes a paediatric indication; (b) applications to include a paediatric indication in an existing marketing authorisation; (c) applications for a paediatric use marketing authorisation. 2.
Where there is particular cause for concern, the competent authority may require, as a condition for granting marketing authorisation, that a risk management system be set up or that specific post-marketing studies be performed and submitted for review.
In the case of a deferral, the marketing authorisation holder shall submit an annual report to the Agency providing an update on progress with paediatric studies in accordance with the decision of the Agency agreeing the paediatric investigation plan and granting a deferral.
The Agency shall inform the competent authority if it is found that the marketing authorisation holder has failed to comply with the decision of the Agency agreeing the paediatric investigation plan and granting a deferral. 4.
TITLE V REWARDS AND INCENTIVES Article 36 1.
Where an application under Article 7 or 8 includes the results of all studies conducted in compliance with an agreed paediatric investigation plan, the holder of the patent or supplementary protection certificate shall be entitled to a six-month extension of the period referred to in Articles 13(1) and 13(2) of Regulation (EEC) No 1768/92.
The first subparagraph shall also apply where completion of the agreed paediatric investigation plan fails to lead to the authorisation of a paediatric indication, but the results of the studies conducted are reflected in the summary of product characteristics and, if appropriate, in the package leaflet of the medicinal product concerned. 2.
The inclusion in a marketing authorisation of the statement referred to in Article 28(3) shall be used for the purposes of applying paragraph 1 of this Article. 3.
Paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 shall apply to products that are protected by a supplementary protection certificate under Regulation (EEC) No 1768/92, or under a patent which qualifies for the granting of the supplementary protection certificate.
In the case of an application under Article 8 which leads to the authorisation of a new paediatric indication, paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply if the applicant applies for, and obtains, a one-year extension of the period of marketing protection for the medicinal product concerned, on the grounds that this new paediatric indication brings a significant clinical benefit in comparison with existing therapies, in accordance with Article 14(11) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 or the fourth subparagraph of Article 10(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC.
Article 37 Where an application for a marketing authorisation is submitted in respect of a medicinal product designated as an orphan medicinal product pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 and that application includes the results of all studies conducted in compliance with an agreed paediatric investigation plan, and the statement referred to in Article 28(3) of this Regulation is subsequently included in the marketing authorisation granted, the 10-year period referred to in Article 8(1) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 shall be extended to 12 years.
The first paragraph shall also apply where completion of the agreed paediatric investigation plan fails to lead to the authorisation of a paediatric indication, but the results of the studies conducted are reflected in the summary of product characteristics and, if appropriate, in the package leaflet of the medicinal product concerned.
Where a paediatric use marketing authorisation is granted in accordance with Articles 5 to 15 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004, the data and marketing protection periods referred to in Article 14(11) of that Regulation shall apply. 2.
Where a paediatric use marketing authorisation is granted in accordance with the procedures laid down in Directive 2001/83/EC, the data and marketing protection periods referred to in Article 10(1) of that Directive shall apply.
By … [11], the Member States shall communicate to the Commission detailed information concerning any measures they have enacted to support research into, and the development and availability of, medicinal products for paediatric use.
Funds for research into medicinal products for the paediatric population shall be provided for in the Community budget in order to support studies relating to medicinal products or active substances not covered by a patent or a supplementary protection certificate. 2.
This Community funding shall be delivered through the Community Framework Programmes for Research, Technological Development and Demonstration Activities or any other Community initiatives for the funding of research.
TITLE VI COMMUNICATION AND COORDINATION Article 41 1.
The European database created by Article 11 of Directive 2001/20/EC shall include clinical trials carried out in third countries which are contained in an agreed paediatric investigation plan, in addition to the clinical trials referred to in Articles 1 and 2 of that Directive.
In the case of such clinical trials carried out in third countries, the details listed in Article 11 of that Directive shall be entered into the database by the addressee of the Agency's decision on a paediatric investigation plan.
By way of derogation from the provisions of Article 11 of Directive 2001/20/EC, the Agency shall make public part of the information on paediatric clinical trials entered in the European database. 2.
In consultation with the Agency, Member States and interested parties, the Commission shall draw up guidance on the nature of the information referred to in paragraph 1 to be entered in the European database created by Article 11 of Directive 2001/20/EC, on which information shall be made accessible to the public in application of paragraph 1, on how clinical trial results shall be submitted and be made public in application of paragraph 2, and on the Agency's responsibilities and tasks in this regard.
Article 42 Member States shall collect available data on all existing uses of medicinal products in the paediatric population and shall communicate these data to the Agency by … [13].
By … [15], the Agency shall make the inventory public and shall update it regularly. 2.
The Agency shall, with the scientific support of the Paediatric Committee, develop a European network of existing national and European networks, investigators and centres with specific expertise in the performance of studies in the paediatric population. 2.
By … [16], any paediatric studies already completed, by the date of entry into force, in respect of products authorised in the Community shall be submitted by the marketing authorisation holder for assessment to the competent authority.
The competent authority may update the summary of product characteristics and package leaflet, and may vary the marketing authorisation accordingly.
All existing paediatric studies, as referred to in paragraph 1, and all paediatric studies initiated prior to the entry into force of this Regulation shall be eligible to be included in a paediatric investigation plan, and shall be taken into consideration by the Paediatric Committee when assessing applications for paediatric investigation plans, waivers and deferrals and by competent authorities when assessing applications submitted pursuant to Article 7, 8 or 30. 3.
Without prejudice to the previous paragraph, the rewards and incentives of Articles 36, 37 and 38 shall only be granted provided that significant studies contained in an agreed Paediatric Investigation Plan are completed after the entry into force of this Regulation.
Any other marketing authorisation holder-sponsored studies which involve the use in the paediatric population of a medicinal product covered by a marketing authorisation, whether or not they are conducted in compliance with an agreed paediatric investigation plan, shall be submitted to the competent authority within six months of completion of the studies concerned. 2.
The competent authority may update the summary of product characteristics and package leaflet, and may vary the marketing authorisation accordingly. 4.
TITLE VII GENERAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS CHAPTER 1 General provisions Section 1 Fees, Community funding, penalties and reports Article 47 1.
Where an application for a paediatric use marketing authorisation is submitted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Regulation (EC) No 726/2004, the amount of the reduced fees for the examination of the application and the maintenance of the marketing authorisation shall be fixed in accordance with Article 70 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. 2.
Article 48 The Community contribution provided for in Article 67 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 shall cover the work of the Paediatric Committee, including scientific support provided by experts, and of the Agency, including the assessment of paediatric investigation plans, scientific advice and any fee waivers provided for in this Regulation, and shall support the Agency's activities under Articles 41 and 44 of this Regulation.
Member States shall inform the Commission of these provisions by … [18].
The maximum amounts as well as the conditions and methods for collection of these penalties shall be laid down in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 51(2) of this Regulation. 4.
By … [19], the Commission shall present to the European Parliament and the Council a general report on experience acquired as a result of the application of this Regulation.
By… [20], the Commission shall present a report to the European Parliament and the Council on the experience acquired as a result of the application of Articles 36, 37 and 38.
Section 2 Standing Committee Article 51 1.
The Commission shall be assisted by the Standing Committee on Medicinal Products for Human Use set up by Article 121 of Directive 2001/83/EC, hereinafter referred to as 'the Committee'. 2.
The extension of the duration may be revoked if it was granted contrary to the provisions of Article 36 of Regulation (EC) No …/…. 2.
Any person may submit an application for revocation of the extension of the duration to the body responsible under national law for the revocation of the corresponding basic patent."; 9.
Article 54 In Article 6 of Directive 2001/83/EC, the first subparagraph of paragraph 1 shall be replaced by the following: "1.
No medicinal product may be placed on the market of a Member State unless a marketing authorisation has been issued by the competent authorities of that Member State in accordance with this Directive or unless an authorisation has been granted in accordance with Regulation (EC) No. 726/2004, read in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No …/2006 [22].
Article 55 Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 is hereby amended as follows: 1.
Article 7 shall apply from … [24].
Article 8 shall apply from … [25].
Articles 30 and 31 shall apply from … [26].
Done at Brussels, … For the European Parliament The President … For the Council The President … [1] Opinion delivered on 11 May 2005 (OJ C 267, 27.10.2005, p. 1). [2] European Parliament Opinion of 7 September 2005 (not yet published in the Official Journal), Council Common Position of 10 March 2006 and European Parliament Position (not yet published in the Official Journal). [3] OJ L 121, 1.5.2001, p. 34. [4] OJ L 311, 28.11.2001, p. 67.
Directive as last amended by Directive 2004/27/EC (OJ L 136, 30.4.2004, p. 34). [5] OJ L 136, 30.4.2004, p. 1. [6] OJ L 182, 2.7.1992, p. 1.
Regulation as last amended by the 2003 Act of Accession. [7] OJ L 18, 22.1.2000, p. 1. [8] OJ L 184, 17.7.1999, p. 23. [9] Six months from the entry into force of this Regulation. [10] One year from the entry into force of this Regulation. [11] One year from the entry into force of this Regulation. [12] 18 months from the entry into force of this Regulation. [13] Two years from the entry into force of this Regulation. [14] Nine months from the entry into force of this Regulation. [15] Three years from the entry into force of this Regulation. [16] One year from the date of entry into force of this Regulation. [17] OJ L 35, 15.2.1995, p. 1.
Regulation as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 1905/2005 (OJ L 304, 23.11.2005, p. 1). [18] Nine months from the date of entry into force of this Regulation. [19] Six years from the date of entry into force of this Regulation. [20] Ten years from the date of entry into force of this Regulation. [21] OJ L …, …, p. …"; [22] OJ L …, …, p. …"; [23] OJ L …, …, p. …"; [24] 18 months following the date of entry into force of this Regulation. [25] 24 months following the date of entry into force of this Regulation. [26] Six months following the date of entry into force of this Regulation. -------------------------------------------------- STATEMENT OF THE COUNCIL'S REASONS I.
On 29 September 2004 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on Medicinal Products for Paediatric Use and amending Regulation (EEC) No 1768/92, Directive 2001/83/EC and Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 [1]. 2.
The Economic and Social Committee adopted its opinion at its 417th plenary session on 11 and 12 May 2005 [2]. 3.
The European Parliament adopted its first-reading opinion on 7 September 2005 [3]. 4.
The Commission adopted an amended proposal on 10 November 2005 [4]. 5.
On 9 December 2005, the Council reached a political agreement with a view to adopting a common position in accordance with Article 251 of the Treaty. 6.
On 10 March 2006, the Council adopted its common position on the proposal as set out in doc. 15763/05.
The general objectives of the Commission proposal are to: - increase the development of medicines for use in children, - ensure that medicines used to treat children are subject to high quality research, - ensure that medicines used to treat children are appropriately authorised for use in children, - improve the information available on the use of medicines in children, - achieve these objectives without subjecting children to unnecessary clinical trials and in full compliance with Directive 2001/20/EC (the Clinical Trials Directive) [5].
The Council, which agrees with the objectives of the proposal, has nevertheless endeavoured to improve some of the provisions and to add further features, notably as regards research into paediatric use of off-patent medicines (Article 40), safeguarding measures aiming at keeping paediatric products on the market (Article 35) and as concerns transparency (Articles 25 and 41).
In its Plenary vote on 7 September 2005, the European Parliament adopted 69 amendments to the proposal. (a) 42 of these have been incorporated, either in full, in part or in principle into the Council's common position corresponding to around two thirds of the proposed amendments, (b) 27 amendments have not been accepted. 10.
With the exception of redrafts (notably to Articles 32 and 49) the common position incorporates most of the amendments proposed by the European Parliament accepted or accepted in principle by the Commission in its amended proposal. 11.
In recital 10 the Council agrees with part of Amendment 7.
As for the second part of this Amendment, the Council has deemed it more appropriate to clarify that the reason for the legal provisions in Article 16(1) is to ensure an early dialogue between the physical or legal person developing a new medicinal product and the Paediatric Committee. 17.
In recital 11 the Council agreed in principle to Amendment 8, but made a minor redrafting, pointing to the use of waivers and deferrals, in order to maintain coherence within the Regulation. 18.
The Council shares the view of the European Parliament that research into the paediatric use of medicinal products, which are not protected by a patent or supplementary protection certificate, is important and to this aim proposes a new Article 40 as well as a new recital 12 that contains the ideas behind Amendment 9, but with minor redrafting to maintain coherence with the new article to which it refers. 19.
The Council has amended recital 18 to correspond to the amendments of Article 32. 21.
The European Parliament in Amendment 11 proposed to amend recital 22.
The Council, for reasons set out in relation to Article 33, cannot support this amendment. 22.
Amendment 12 proposes to introduce in recital 23 reference to "a European paediatric form" aimed at facilitating Community wide marketing of paediatric medicines placed on the market only at national level.
The Council does not support Amendment 14 to recital 26, for reasons that are outlined in the text regarding Article 36 below. 26.
As regards recital 31, the Council has decided to stress that unnecessary repetition of studies should be avoided and to include the first part of Amendment 15 proposed by the Parliament concerning a European register of paediatric clinical trials.
It can therefore not support Amendment 16, which proposes that recital 32 should be deleted. 29.
The Council has included a new recital 38 that explains why the proposed Regulation is in accordance with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality required in Article 5 of the Treaty.
For legal/linguistic reasons, a minor redrafting was also made in the second subparagraph of this paragraph. 34.
The Council supports the transparency intended in the second part, but considers that the provision should be included in Article 25, which deals with procedural issues, including transparency.
As for Amendment 23 to Article 5(3), the Council considers it unnecessary to define the respective numbers of representatives of the Commission or Executive Director of the Agency that could attend the meetings of the Paediatric Committee. 36.
The Council has decided to delete Article 6 of the Proposal on independence and impartiality of the members of the Paediatric Committee, since detailed provisions on such requirements are already set out in Regulation (EC) No 726/2004, to which explicit reference is made in Article 3(2).
For this reason, the Council cannot support Amendment 24. 37.
The Council agrees in principle to Amendments 26 and 29 by the European Parliament to form a new subparagraph (i) of Article 6(1) on establishment of an inventory of paediatric medicinal products needs.
Further, the Council has added a new subparagraph (k) of Article 6(1) concerning the selection of the symbol for paediatric medicines (see Article 32).
Finally, the Council has included Amendment 28 on advice available from third countries in Article 6(2) with minor redrafting to improve clarity.
Title II — Marketing authorisation requirements 38.
Article 8 also deals with General authorisation requirements.
The Council agrees in principle with the ideas behind Amendment 31 to Article 8, but considers this amendment to be redundant.
Article 27 already refers to the application of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 and Directive 2001/83/EC, which by association includes their implementing measures such as the variation regulations, in particular Commission Regulation (EC) No 1085/2003, to which the amendment introduces a reference.
The Council also considers that Amendment 32 is not necessary, since Article 28(1) of the proposed Regulation already opens the centralised procedure to marketing authorisation applications which include one or more paediatric indications selected on the basis of studies conducted in compliance with an agreed paediatric investigation plan.
This in turn will lead to a Commission Decision which will be binding on Member States. 40.
The provisions in Article 10 on compliance checks of paediatric investigation plans have been adjusted to clarify the responsibilities of various actors. 41.
In Article 14(1), the Council agrees to Amendment 35 on updating and public availability of the list of waivers. 43.
Article 16 sets out provisions for the timing of the submission of the Paediatric Investigation Plan.
The European Parliament had proposed three amendments (36, 37 and 38) to this Article.
Article 22 deals with the modification of a paediatric investigation plan.
The provisions in Article 23 on compliance checks of paediatric investigation plans have been adjusted to clarify the responsibilities of various actors. 47.
The Council has inserted a number of amendments to Article 25 in order to clarify the procedure and support transparency.
Title III — Marketing authorisation procedures 48.
Article 28 deals with marketing authorisation procedures for applications falling within the scope of Articles 7 and 8.
Article 32 deals with the identification of medicinal products for paediatric use.
The European Parliament had proposed two amendments to this Article.
The Council agrees in principle to the first part of Amendment 44, but with a suggested redraft.
The Council accepts in principle Amendment 45 and has therefore introduced a new subparagraph in Article 32.
Title IV — Post-authorisation requirements 51.
Article 33 deals with the deadline for placing products authorised for a paediatric indication on the market.
The Council considers that it is inappropriate, therefore, to provide for derogations in the application of this provision in cases where competent authorities are unable to meet such deadlines. 52.
The Council has decided to insert a new Article 35 to ensure that products with a paediatric indication for which the market authorisation holder has benefited from the rewards in this Regulation stay on the market.
Title V — Rewards and incentives 54.
Article 36 deals with the requirements that must be met in order for a Supplementary Protection Certificate (SPC) to be prolonged six months.
The same principle applies to the reward of market exclusivity provided for in the Regulation on orphan medicinal products.
For this reason, the Council cannot agree to Amendment 51.
The new Article 10(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC as amended by Directive 2004/27/EC, provides that the period of market protection shall be extended by one year if the marketing authorisation holder obtains an authorisation for a new indication which is judged to bring significant clinical benefit in comparison with existing therapies.
Amendment 53 proposes to introduce a new paragraph stating that the prolongation should only be admissible once per medicinal product.
The Council does not consider that this amendment is necessary since this provision is already provided for in Article 52, indent 7, which amends Article 13 of Regulation (EEC) No 1768/92 (the SPC Regulation). 55.
Also the funding should be delivered through the Community Framework Programmes or any other Community initiatives for the funding of research.
Furthermore, the Council considers that the reference to the study programme should be included only in Article 40, and not in Article 48.
Title VI — Communication and coordination 58.
Article 41(1) deals with a European database on clinical trials.
The Council agrees with the ideas behind the amendments to the text as set out in the first and second parts of the new Article 2b proposed in Amendment 19 by the European Parliament, and has redrafted Articles 43(2) and 43(3).
The Council cannot agree to the amendments to the text set out in the other new articles of Amendment 19 because they either involve duplication of work or are incomplete.
Article 45 deals with paediatric studies completed prior to the entry into force of the Regulation on Paediatric Medicines.
The Council shares the intentions behind Amendments 62 and 69, but considers that both amendments should be included in Article 45(2) and not in Article 56.
Title VII — General and final provisions 62.
Article 48 deals with the Community contribution to the European Medicines Agency.
For the second part, the Council considers that the reference to the study programme should be included in Article 40, and not in Article 48. 63.
Article 49 deals with penalties for infringements of the Regulation.
The Council considers that the harmonisation of national measures proposed in Amendment 65 would require the adoption of Community legislation to this aim, and can therefore not support this amendment. 64.
Article 50 of the common position deals with reports to be prepared by the European Commission.
It agrees, in principle, to Amendment 67 and has included it in Article 50(3) with some redrafting.
The Council decided to delete Article 50 of the Proposal, since it considers that the provisions in Article 6 of the common position are sufficient as a basis for rules of procedure for the Paediatric Committee, which should be decided within EMEA in order guarantee flexibility. 66.
Article 51 on comitology has been adapted to correspond to standard wording. 67.
Article 52 contains amendments necessary to Regulation (EEC)1768/92, the SPC Regulation.
In particular, a new paragraph 4 is inserted into Article 7 of Regulation (EEC)1768/92, stating that the application for an SPC prolongation shall be lodged no later than two years before the expiration of the SPC.
The Council can therefore not support Amendment 68, which shortens the deadline to six months.
The Council has inserted a new Article 53 in order to introduce an amendment to Directive 2001/20/EC aiming at making public part of the information on paediatric clinical trials entered in the European database on clinical trials. 69.
Therefore, the Council cannot support Amendment 70.
The Commission has acknowledged the overall balance of the Council's common position and welcomed the Political Agreement at the Council (EPSCO) on 9 December 2005. [1] OJ C 321, 28.12.2004, p. 12, text in doc. 13880/04 ECO 168 SAN 157 CODEC 1166. [2] OJ C 267, 27.10.2005, p. 1. [3] 11956/05 CODEC 705 ECO 94 SAN 134. [4] 14487/05 ECO 138 SAN 175 CODEC 1019. [5] OJ L 121, 01.05.2001, p. 34. --------------------------------------------------
