The Commission subsequently adapted the budgetary aspects of these proposals following the agreement of 17 May 2006 on the Financial Framework 2007-2013.
The proposals have been examined by the Council and the European Parliament, as well as by the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions.
The Parliament adopted, with a very broad majority, its opinion on both proposals on 15 June 2006, proposing a considerable number of amendments.
The Economic and Social Committee unanimously adopted an opinion on 14 December 2005 and the Committee of the Regions adopted its opinion on 16 November 2005.
As regards the Commission’s position, the following items can be highlighted: - As for the scope of the themes, and their scientific and technical content , the Commission accepts many of the clarifications and additions requested, where these reflect important needs, are consistent with maintaining the overall focus of each priority and their inclusion is not prevented by the reduced budget for the framework programme. - Concerning the Joint Technology Initiatives , the Commission accepts modifications on the criteria to be used for the identification of potential Joint Technology Initiatives, as well as their nature and implementation. - Concerning the European Research Council , important clarifications are accepted by the Commission, including on the term of office, the renewal and the role of the Scientific Council, the management and the staffing arrangements of the European Research Council, as well as the conduct of an independent review in 2010 of the European Research Council's structures and mechanisms. - - As regards People , a series of changes include references to the links of this programme with other parts of the framework programme and other community programmes, additions that make explicit the international dimension of this part of the programme, pointers to the establishment of appropriate working conditions of researchers and indications on the co-funding mode. - As regards Capacities , the aspects on the Coherent development of policies now form a separate part, in line with the importance of this field.
In what concerns the budget, the Commission maintains the amounts proposed in its adapted proposals of 24 May, 2006. 2005/0043(COD) Amended proposal for a DECISION OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL concerning the seventh framework programme of the European Community for research, technological development and demonstration activities (2007 to 2013) (Text with EEA relevance) THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular Article 166(1) thereof, Having regard to the proposal from the Commission[2], Having regard to the opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee[3], Having regard to the opinion of the Committee of the Regions[4], Acting in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 251 of the Treaty[5], Whereas: 1.
This will make a positive contribution to the social and economic progress of all Member States. 2.
The triangle of knowledge - education, research and innovation - is a principal tool for achieving this goal. 4.
The central role of knowledge and intangible goods in the production of economic, social and cultural wealth was recognised by the Lisbon European Council.
Taking into account the research needs of all Community policies and building upon wide-spread support from European industry, the scientific community, universities, and other interested circles, the Community should establish the scientific and technological objectives to be achieved under its seventh Framework Programme in the period 2007 to 2013. 10.
Among these objectives the following are particularly important: 12.
In addition, the excellence of European research institutions and universities should be developed and enhanced. 15.
Early -stage and early-career researchers should become a major driving force of science in Europe. 17.
Under “Cooperation”, support should be provided to trans-national co-operation at appropriate scale across the European Union and beyond, in a number of thematic areas corresponding to major fields of the progress of knowledge and technology, where research should be supported and strengthened to address European social, economic, environmental , public health and industrial challenges , serve the public good and support developing countries.
The Commission has recognised on numerous occasions that the regions have an important part to play in implementing the European Research Area [7] . 26.
The seventh Framework Programme complements the activities carried out in the Member States as well as other Community actions that are necessary for the overall strategic effort for the implementation of the Lisbon objectives, alongside in particular those on structural funds, agriculture, education, training, competitiveness and innovation, industry, employment and environment. 27.
Implementation of the seventh Framework Programme may give rise to supplementary programmes involving the participation of certain Member States only, the participation of the Community in programmes undertaken by several Member States, or the setting up of joint undertakings or other arrangements within the meaning of Articles 168, 169 and 171 of the Treaty. 33.
This act establishes a financial framework for the entire duration of the programme which is to be the principal point of reference for the budgetary authority, within the meaning of point 37 of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 17/5/2006 between the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission on budgetary discipline and improvement of the budgetary procedure. 39.
Appropriate measures - proportionate to the European Communities’ financial interests - should also be taken to prevent irregularities and fraud and the necessary steps should be taken to recover funds lost, wrongly paid or incorrectly used in accordance with Council Regulations (EC, Euratom) No 2988/95 of 18 December 1995 on the protection of the European Communities financial interests[10], (EC, Euratom) No 2185/96 of 11 November 1996 concerning on-the-spot checks and inspections carried out by the Commission in order to protect the European Communities’ financial interests against fraud and other irregularities[11] and Regulation (EC) No 1073/1999 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning investigations conducted by the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF)[12]. 40.
Article 2 Objectives and activities 41.
The objectives and the broad lines of those activities are set out in Annex I. 42.
Cooperation: supporting the whole range of research actions carried out in trans-national cooperation in the following thematic areas: 43.
Transport (including Aeronautics); 50.
Socio-economic Sciences and Humanities; 51.
Security and Space. 52.
Article 3 The seventh Framework Programme shall be implemented through specific programmes.
The maximum overall amount for Community financial participation in this seventh Framework Programme shall be EUR 50 52172726 million.
That amount shall be distributed among the activities and actions referred to in paragraphs 2 to 6 of Article 2 as follows (in EUR million): Cooperation | 32 29244432 | Ideas | 7 46011862 | People | 4 7277129 | Capacities | 4 2917486 | Non-nuclear actions of the Joint Research Centre | 1 7511817 | 2.
The detailed rules for Community financial participation in this Framework Programme are set out in Annex III.
All the research activities carried out under the seventh Framework Programme shall be carried out in compliance with fundamental ethical principles. 57.
A revision of the fields of research set out in paragraph 2 of this Article must take place for the second phase of this programme (2010-2013) in the light of scientific advances.
Article 7 Monitoring, assessment and review 63.
Two years following the completion of this Framework Programme, the Commission shall carry out an external evaluation by independent experts of its rationale, implementation and achievements.The Commission shall communicate the conclusions thereof, accompanied by its observations, to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions.
Transport (including Aeronautics); 73.
Socio-economic Sciences and the Humanities; 74.
These have been identified on the basis of their contribution to EUCommunity objectives, including the transition to a knowledge society, the relevant European research potential and the added value of EUCommunity level intervention for these subjects.
Under each theme, beside these activities, the possibility will be ensured to address two types of opportunities will be addressed and needs in an open and flexible way: - Emerging needsFuture and Emerging Technologies : to support research aiming at identifying or further exploring new scientific and technological opportunities in a given field and/or in their combination with other relevant areas and disciplines through specific support for spontaneous research proposals, including by joint calls; to nurture novel ideas and radically new uses and to explore new options in research roadmaps aiming at identifying or further exploring, in a given field and/or at the intersection of several disciplines, new scientific and technological opportunities, in particular linked with a potential for significant breakthroughs; adequate coordination with the activities carried out under the Ideas programme will be guaranteed in order to avoid overlap and ensure an optimum use of funding - Unforeseen policy needs: to respond in a flexible way to new policy needs that arise during the course of the Framework Programme, such as unforeseen developments or events requiring a quick reaction like, the new epidemics, emerging concerns in food safety or natural disaster response.
Raising competitiveness of European research requires that the potential lying within the whole European Research Area is fully unlocked.
The action will also be used to enhance the complementaryity and synergy between the Framework Programme and activities carried out in the framework of intergovernmental structures such as EUREKA and COST[16].
Where appropriate, ERA-NETs could be applied for programme coordination between European regions and small or medium-sized Member States to enable their cooperation with large scale initiatives; - In a limited number of cases, pProviding additional EU Community financial support to those participants that pool resources create a common fund for the purpose of joint calls for proposals between their respective national and regional programmes (“ERA-NET PLUS”).
The participation of the Community in national research programmes jointly implemented on the basis of Article 169 is especially relevant to European co-operation on a large scale in “variable geometry” between Member States sharing common needs and/or interests.
In well identified cases, sSuch Article 169 initiatives will be launched in areas to be identified in close association with the Member States, including the possible cooperation with intergovernmental programmes, on the basis of a series of criteria: - Relevance to EUCommunity objectives. - The clear definition of the objective to be pursued and its relevance to the objectives of this Framework Programme. - Presence of a pre-existing basis (national research programmes existing or envisaged). - European added value. - Critical mass, with regard to the size and the number of programmes involved, the similarity of activities they cover. - Efficiency of Article 169 as the most appropriate means for achieving the objectives.
International co-operation International cooperation actions must show a clearly defined European added value and under this part of the Framework Programme will be: - The opening of all activities carried out in the thematic areas to researchers and research institutions from all third countries, with restrictions for the Security theme if and where appropriate, with a strong effort to encourage them to seize this opportunity. - Specific co-operation actions in each thematic area dedicated to third countries in the case of mutual interest in co-operating on particular topics to be selected on the basis of their scientific and technological level and needs.
This part of the Framework Programme covers the international co-operation actions in each thematic area and across themes.
Rationale The sequencing of the human genome and the recent advances in post-genomics have revolutionised research into human health and diseases.
To catalyse experimental progress in genome, post-genome and biomedical research by enhancing data generation, standardisation, acquisition and analysis. - Detection, diagnosis and monitoring.
Long term safety and effectiveness assessmentaspects and monitoring of large scale use of new medical technologies (including devices) and advanced therapies ensuring a high level of protection and benefit for public health. 2.
ICT is the leading factor in boosting innovation and creativity and in mastering change in value chains across industry and service sectors.
New perspectives in ICT drawing on other science and technology disciplines, including insights from physics, biotechnologies, materials- and life-sciences, mathematics, for miniaturisation of ICT devices to sizes compatible and interacting with living organisms, to increase performance and user-friendliness of systems engineering and information processing, and for modelling and simulation of the living world. - Integration of Technologies : - Personal environments : personal communication and computing devices, accessories, wearables, implants; their interfaces and interconnections to services and resources. - Home environments : communication, monitoring, control, assistance; seamless interoperability and use of all devices; interactive digital content and services. - Robotic systems : advanced autonomous systems; cognition, control, action skills, natural interaction and cooperation; miniaturisation, humanoid technologies. - Intelligent infrastructures : tools making infrastructures that are critical to everyday life more efficient and user-friendly, easier to adapt and maintain, more robust to usage and resistant to failures. - Applications Research: - ICT meeting societal challenges : New systems, novel materials, structures and technologies and services in areas of public interest improving quality, efficiency, access and inclusiveness; user friendly applications, integration of new technologies and initiatives such as ambient assisted living. - for health , improving disease prevention and health care provisions, early diagnosis, treatment and personalisation; autonomy, safety, monitoring and mobility of patients; health information space for knowledge discovery. - to improve inclusion and equal participation and prevent digital divides; assistive technology for elderly and for disabled people; design-for-all. - for mobility ; intelligent ICT-based transportation systems and vehicles and intelligent service solutions for tourism enabling people and goods to move safely, ecologically, comfortably and efficiently. - in support of the environment , risk management and sustainable development, to prevent or reduce vulnerability and to mitigate the consequences of natural disasters and industrial accidents and human activities related to economic development. - for governments ; efficiency, openness and accountability, for a world-class public administration and links to citizens and businesses, supporting democracy, allowing access to information to all. - ICT for content, creativity and personal development: - new media paradigms and new forms of content, including entertainment; creation of interactive digital content; enriched user experiences; cost-effective content delivery; digital rights management; hybrid media. - technology-enhanced learning ; adaptive and contextualised learning solutions; active learning. - ICT-based systems to support accessibility and use over time of digital cultural and scientific resources and assets, in a multilingual and multicultural environment - ICT supporting businesses and industry: - new forms of dynamic networked co-operative business processes, digital eco-systems in particular for small- and medium-sized organisations; optimised, distributed work organisation and collaborative work environments such as knowledge sharing and interactive services (e.g.
Nanosciences, Nanotechnologies, Materials and new Production Technologies Objective Improve the competitiveness of European industry and generate knowledge to ensure its transformation from a resource-intensive to a knowledge-intensive industry, by generating breakthroughstep changes in knowledge and implementing decisive knowledge for new applications at the crossroads between different technologies and disciplines.
The EU has recognised leadership in fields such as in nanosciences, nanotechnologies, materials and production technologies which must be strengthened in order to secure and increase the EU position in a highly competitive global context.
This includes the integration of strategies and technologies for energy efficiency (including co- and polygeneration), the use of new and renewable energy technologies and energy demand management measures and devices, and the demonstration of minimum climate impact buildings. - Knowledge for energy policy making Development of tools, methods and models to assess the main economic and social issues related to energy technologies and to provide quantifiable targets and scenarios for medium and long term horizons (including providing scientific support for policy development). 6.
Rationale Environmental problems go beyond national frontiers and require a coordinated approach at a pan-European and often global level.
The diversity of approaches within the EU in the economic, social, political and cultural domains provides a highly fertile ground for research in these fields at EU-level.
This will contribute to the development of a European Space Policy, complementing efforts by Member States and by other key players, including the European Space Agency. 9.1 Security Rationale Security in Europe is a precondition of prosperity and freedom.
The research should be organised in such a way that it contributes to a common defence market in Europe.
When drawing up the rules of participation the recommendation of the high-level group in the field of security research from March 2004 and the findings of the European Security Research Advisory Board are to be taken into account.
Public authorities and decision-makers represent important potential users and the European industry will also benefit from a well defined European Space policy implemented through a European Space Programme, supported in part by the proposed research and technological development actions.
European level actions are also needed to support EUCommunity policy objectives, for example in the fields of agriculture, forestry, fisheries, environment, health, telecommunications, security, transport as well as ensuring that Europe is a respected partner in regional and international cooperation.
These activities will be complemented by other actions included in the Competitiveness and Innovation Framework Programme and in the Education and Training Programme.
The EU Community activities in frontier research will be implemented by a European Research Council (ERC), consisting of an independent scientific council, supported by a dedicated implementation structure.
The review will look explicitly at the advantages and disadvantages of a structure based on an Executive Agency and a structure based on Article 171 of the Treaty.
Mobility, both trans-national and intersectoral, including stimulating industrial participation and the opening of research careers and academic positions at European scale, is a key component of the European Research Area and indispensable to increase European capacities and performances in research.
These actions will be implemented in line with the international activities under the “Co-operation” and “Capacities” Programmes. - Specific actions to support the creation of a genuine European labour market for researchers, by removing obstacles to mobility and enhancing the career perspectives of researchers in Europe.
This will include: - Strengthening and improving the European science system, such as questions of scientific advice and expertise and contributing to “better regulation”. - Monitoring and analysis of research related public policies and industrial strategies - Coordination of research policies, including trans-national cooperation initiatives undertaken at national or regional level on issues of common interest.
Infrastructures projects proposed for funding in this respect will be identified on the basis of a series of criteria including in particular: - Added value of Community EU financial support - Inability of existing mechanisms to achieve the objective - Scientific excellence, notably, cCapacity to offer a world level service in response to the needs of to users from the scientific (academic and industrial) community at European level throughout Europe - Relevance at international level - Contribution to technological development capacity - Contribution to developing European Research Area - Contribution to developing ‘research-based clusters of excellence’ - Technological and organisational feasibility - Possibilities for European partnership and strong financial and other commitment of Member States and major stakeholders, considering the possible use of EIB loans and Structural Funds - Construction and operating costs evaluated.
Most Member states actions relevant to SMEs do not encourage and support trans-national research cooperation and technology transfer.
Actions will include support of demonstration and other activities to facilitate the exploitation of results ensuring complementarity with the instruments to promote innovation in SMEs under the Competitiveness and Innovation Programme.
The actions undertaken in this area will enable European regions to strengthen their capacity for investing in RDT and carry out research activities, while maximising their potential for a successful involvement of their operators in European research projects and facilitating the emergence of clusters, thereby promoting regional development in Europe.
In order to help researchers and institutions , whether in the public or private sector, of these regions to contribute to the overall European research effort, while taking advantage of the knowledge and experience existing in other regions of Europe, this action aims at establishing the conditions that will allow them to exploit their potential and will help to fully realise the European Research Area in the enlarged Union.
Activities The action in this domain will comprise support to: - Trans-national two-way secondments of research staff between selected organisations in the convergence regions, and one or more partner organisations ; support to selected centres of existing or emerging excellence for the recruitment by selected centres of incoming experienced researchers from other EU countries; - The acquisition and development of research equipment and the development of a material environment enabling a full exploitation of the intellectual potential present in the selected centres of existing or emerging excellence in the convergence regions; - The organisation of workshops and conferences to facilitate knowledge transfer; promotion activities as well as initiatives aiming at disseminating and transferring research results in other countries and on international markets. - “Evaluation facilities” through which any research centre in the convergence regions can obtain an international independent expert evaluation of the level of their overall research quality and infrastructures.
Activities The substantial and integrated initiative undertaken in this field will comprise support to: - Strengthening and improvementing of the European science system, and will addressincluding the following : issuesquestions : improving the use and monitoring the impact of scientific advice and expertise for policy-making (including risk management) ; the future of scientific publications; measures to make scientific publications more accessible to members of the public wishing to consult them; safeguards for scientific domains open to misuse; and frauds, trust and “self regulation”. - Broader engagement of researchers and the public at large, including organised civil society, on science-related questions, to anticipate and clarify political and societal issues, including ethical issues. - Reflection and debate on science and technology and their place in society, drawing on disciplines such as history, sociology and philosophy of science and technology. - Gender research, including the integration of the gender dimension in all areas of research and the role promotion of women in research and in scientific decision-making bodie s . - Creation of an open environment which triggers curiosity for science in young people, by reinforcing science education at all levels including schools and promoting interest and full participation in science among young people from all backgrounds . - Development of a policy on Strengthening the role of research based in universities and other higher education institutes and the their engagement of universities in the necessary reforms to face the challenges of globalisation. - Improved inter communication and mutual understanding between the scientific world and the wider audience of policy-makers, the media and the general public, by helping scientists better communicate and present their work and by supporting scientific information , publications and media.
ACTIVITIES OF INTERNATIONAL CO-OPERATION To become competitive and play a leading role at world level, the European Community needs a strong and coherent international science and technology policy.
This international policy has two three interdependent objectives: - To support European competitiveness through strategic partnerships with third countries in selected fields of science and by engaging the best third country scientists to work in and with Europe. - To contribute to the production of knowledge in Europe by enabling universities, research institutions and European firms to establish contact with their partners in third countries, thereby making it easier for them to access research carried out elsewhere in the world . - To address specific problems that third countries face or that have a global character, on the basis of mutual interest and mutual benefit.
Cooperation with third countries in the Framework Programme will be targeted in particular at the following groups of countries [30] : - Candidate countries; - Countries neighbouring the EU, Mediterranean partner countries, Western Balkans countries (WBC)[31] , and Eastern European and Central Asian countries (EECA) [32] the Newly Independent States ; - Developing countries, focusing on their particular needs of each country or region concerned ;[33] - Emerging economies.
Growth will be in areas of key concern for the Union Community: - Prosperity in a knowledge-intensive society - To carry out and develop advanced econometric modelling and analysis techniques in the context of policy definition and monitoring such as the follow-up of the Lisbon agenda, the Internal Market and the Research and Education Policies. - To develop models to support a new balance between sustainability objectives and competitiveness in a responsible way. - To provide its scientific/technical support to the development of risk assessment and management procedures as a tool for the European decision making process. - Solidarity and responsible management of resources - To become a recognised S%amp%T reference centre on sustainable agriculture focusing on food quality, traceability and safety (including GM food and feed), spatial management and cross-compliance and to support the implementation of the CAP. - To provide S%amp%T support to the Common Fisheries Policy. - To enhance the provision of harmonised European geo-referenced data and spatial information systems (support to INSPIRE) and to continue developing new approaches to global environmental and resources monitoring (support to GMES). - To provide expertise and play a central role in the GMES research activities and in the development of new applications in this field. - To support the implementation of the EU Action Plan on Environment and Health including providing support to on-going activities to establish a community integrated Environment and Health information system. - To promote and enhance the development and validation of alternative strategies, and in particular non-animal methods, in all relevant areas of research (safety assessment, vaccine testing, health and biomedical research etc.). - Security and freedomFreedom, security and justice - To develop activities contributing to the establishment of the area of freedom, justice and security especially in areas related to fightingprotection against terrorism, organised crime and fraud, border security and prevention of major risks, in relation with law enforcement agencies and relevant EU servicescooperation with relevant bodies. - To support the Community response to natural and technological disasters. - Europe as world partner - To strengthen support to EU Community external policies in specific areas such as external aspects of internal security, development cooperation and humanitarian aid.
ANNEX II: INDICATIVE BREAKDOWN AMONG PROGRAMMES The indicative breakdown among programmes is as follows (in EUR million): Cooperation *,[35] | 32 292 | Health | 5 984 | Food, Agriculture and Biotechnology | 1 935 | Information and Communication Technologies | 9 110 | Nanosciences, Nanotechnologies, Materials and new Production Technologies | 3 467 | Energy | 2 265 | Environment (including Climate Change) | 1 886 | Transport (including Aeronautics) | 4 180 | Socio-economic Sciences and the Humanities | 607 | Security and Space | 2 858 | Ideas | 7 460 | People | 4 727 | Capacities | 4 291 | Research Infrastructures * | 2 008 | Research for the benefit of SMEs | 1 266 | Regions of Knowledge | 126 | Research Potential | 350 | Science in Society | 359 | Activities of International Co-operation | 182 | Non-nuclear actions of the Joint Research Centre | 1 751 | TOTAL | 50 521 | ANNEX III FUNDING SCHEMES Indirect Actions The activities supported by the 7th Framework Programme will be funded through a range of “Funding schemes”.
The funding schemes are the following: a) To support actions which are primarily implemented on the basis of calls for proposals: 1.
Networks of Excellence Support to a Joint Programme of Activities joint research programmes implemented by a number of research organisations integrating their activities in a given field, carried out by research teams in the framework of longer term co-operation.
The implementation of this Joint Programme of Activities these joint programmes will require a formal commitment from the organisations integrating part of their resources and their activities. 3.
This scheme will mainly be used to support investigator-driven “frontier” research projects funded in the framework of the European Research Council. 5.
b) To support actions implemented on the basis of decisions by the Council and the European Parliament (or by the Council in consultation with the European Parliament ) [36], based on a proposal from the Commission, the Community will provide financial support to multi-financed large-scale initiatives. - A financial contribution from the Community to the joint implementation of well identified national research programmes, on the basis of Article 169 of the Treaty.
Community financial support will be provided subject to the definition of a financing plan based on formal commitments from competent national authorities. - A financial contribution from the Community to the implementation of Joint Technology Initiatives to realise objectives that cannot be achieved through the funding schemes identified in point 1 part a) above.
Joint Technology Initiatives may be decided and implemented on the basis of Article 171 of the Treaty (this may include the creation of joint undertakings) or through the Specific Programme Decisions.
Community support will be provided subject to the definition of an overall blueprint of financial engineering, based on formal commitments from all parties concerned. - A financial contribution from the Community to the development of new infrastructures of European interest.
This contribution may be decided on the basis of Article 171 of the Treaty or through the Specific Programme Decisions.
Community support will be provided subject to the definition of an overall financial plan based on a formal commitment from all parties concerned.
The Community will implement the funding schemes identified in part a) above in compliance with the provisions of the regulation to be adopted pursuant to Article 167 of the Treaty, the relevant State Aid instruments, in particular the Community framework for state aid to research and development, as well as international rules in this area.
In compliance with this international framework, it will be necessary to be able to adjust the scale and form of financial participation on a case-by-case basis, in particular if funding from other public sector sources is available, including other sources of Community financing such as the European Investment Bank (EIB).
Subject to and in accordance with modalities to be established by the regulation adopted pursuant Article 167 of the Treaty and the Council decisions adopting the specific programmes, this mechanism will enable the EIB to increase the amount of financing of European RTD actions (such as joint technology initiatives, large projects-including Eureka projects, and new research infrastructures , and projects run by SMEs) to help overcome market deficiencies .
Direct actions The Community will undertake activities implemented by the Joint Research Centre, which are referred to as direct actions.
In accordance with Article 161 of the Financial Regulation, the Joint Research Centre may benefit from revenue from various types of competitive activities and from other services provided for outside bodies.
In accordance with Article 18 of the Financial Regulation, certain revenue may be used to finance specific items.
Annual requirements | 2007 | 2008 | 2009 | 2010 | 2011 | 2012 | 2013 | Total number of human resources | 4.436 | 4.629 | 4.659 | 4.937 | 5.039 | 5.288 | 5.538 | It will be necessary to consider year by year the consequences for human resources of the phasing out of the 6th Framework Programme and the phasing in of the 7th Framework Programme.
EU support can also contribute to a better integration of European R%amp%D; encouraging the coordination of national policies, the EU-wide dissemination of results, and funding research for pan-European policy challenges.
An in-depth analysis is provided in the ‘Impact Assessment and Ex Ante Evaluation Report for the Commission proposals for the Council and European Parliament decisions on the 7th Framework Programme (EC and Euratom)’ - SEC(2005) 430.
The objectives set out in Annex I aim to support the Lisbon agenda through Community funded research activities.
Method of Implementation (indicative) Show below the method(s)[44] chosen for the implementation of the action. ( Centralised Management ( Directly by the Commission ( Indirectly by delegation to: ( Executive Agencies ( Bodies set up by the Communities as referred to in art. 185 of the Financial Regulation ( National public-sector bodies/bodies with public-service mission (in part for some Marie Curie individual fellowships) ( Shared or decentralised management ( With Member states ( With Third countries ( Joint management with international organisations (please specify) Relevant comments: Externalisation is an important part of the management of this framework programme.
The detailed implementation of the individual grant schemes resulting from the co-funding of national mobility programmes will be passed to the relevant national or regional public-sector bodies or private bodies with a public service mission established in the Member States.
This evaluation is incorporated in the overall Impact Assessment report of the European Commission’s proposals for the European Parliament and Council decisions on the 7th Framework Programme (EC and Euratom).
Measures taken following an intermediate/ex-post evaluation (lessons learned from similar experiences in the past) A Five Year Assessment of the implementation and achievements of Community research over the five preceding years was carried out between June-December 2004 by a panel of independent high level experts.
The results of the Five Year Assessment were made available on 10 February 2005 and communicated to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions.
Two years following the completion of this framework programme, the Commission shall have carried out an external evaluation by independent experts of its rationale, implementation and achievements.
Furthermore, this report could feed into future ex ante evaluation and impact assessments by the Commission.
These include measures such as financial collective responsibility, sanctions against overcharging, measures to ensure the effective recovery of amounts due to the Commission, and administrative and legal measures taken to ensure full compliance with the Financial Regulation.
The opinions of the European Group on Ethics in Science and New Technologies are and will be taken into account. (9) This act establishes a financial framework for the entire duration of the programme which is to be the principal point of reference for the budgetary authority, within the meaning of point 37 of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 17/5/2006 between the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission on budgetary discipline and improvement of the budgetary procedure. (10) On 24/08/2005[57], the Commission submitted the conclusions of the external assessment of the implementation and results of the Community activities carried out in the five years preceding that assessment, accompanied by its observations. (11) It is important to ensure sound financial management of the seventh framework programme and its implementation in the most effective and user-friendly manner possible, as well as ease of access for all participants. (12) Under the seventh Framework Programme due regard will be paid to the role of women and science and research with a view to further enhancing their active role in research. (13) The Joint Research Center has the crucial role of providing customer-driven scientific and technological support for the conception, development, implementation and monitoring of EU policies.
The seventh Framework Programme is open to the participation of countries having concluded the necessary agreements to this effect, and is also open, on the project level and on the basis of mutual benefit, to the participation of entities from thirds countries and of international organisations for scientific cooperation. (15) The seventh Framework Programme should contribute to enlargement by bringing scientific and technological support to the candidate countries for the implementation of Community acquis and for their integration into the European Research Area. (16) Appropriate measures should also be taken to prevent irregularities and fraud and the necessary steps should be taken to recover funds lost, wrongly paid or incorrectly used in accordance with Council Regulations (EC, Euratom) No 2988/95 of 18 December 1995 on the protection of the European Communities financial interests[58], (EC, Euratom) No 2185/96 of 11 November 1996 concerning on-the-spot checks and inspections carried out by the Commission in order to protect the European Communities’ financial interests against fraud and other irregularities[59] and Regulation (EC) No 1073/1999 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning investigations conducted by the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF)[60]. (17) The Scientific and Technical Committee has been consulted by the Commission and has delivered its opinion.
Article 2 Objectives 1.
The seventh Framework programme shall pursue the general objectives set out in Article 1 and Article 2(a) of the Treaty, while contributing towards the creation of a knowledge-based society, building on a European Research Area. 2.
Nuclear fission and radiation protection with the objective of enhancing in particular the safety performance, resource efficiency and cost-effectiveness of promoting the safe use and exploitation of nuclear fission and other uses of radiation in industry and medicine.
The second programme shall cover the activities of the Joint Research Centre in the field of nuclear energy. 3.
Article 3 Maximum overall amount and shares assigned to each programme The overall amount for the implementation of the seventh framework programme for the period 2007 to 2011 shall be EUR 2 7513092 million.
Within the amount foreseen for Fusion energy research, not less than EUR 900 million will be reserved to activities other than the construction of ITER, listed in Annex I 2.
The detailed rules for Community financial participation in this Framework programme are set out in Annex II.
Article 4 Protection of the Communities’ financial interests For the Community actions financed under this Decision, Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2988/95 and Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2185/96 shall apply to any infringement of a provision of Community law, including infringement of a contractual obligation stipulated on the basis of the programme, resulting from an act or omission by an economic operator, which has, or would have, the effect of prejudicing the general budget of the European Communities or budgets managed by them, by an unjustified item of expenditure.
Article 5 All the research activities carried out under the seventh Framework Programme shall be carried out in compliance with fundamental ethical principles.
Article 6 Monitoring, assessment and review 1.
Following the completion of this framework programme, the Commission shall carry out an external evaluation by independent experts of its rationale, implementation and achievements.
The Commission shall communicate the conclusions thereof, accompanied by its observations, to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions.
It will assess specific key ITER technologies, consolidate ITER project choices, and prepare for ITER operation through experimental and theoretical activities. - Technology activities in preparation of DEMO This entails the vigorous development of fusion materials and key technologies for fusion, including blankets, and the establishment of a dedicated project team to prepare for the construction of the International Fusion Materials Irradiation Facility (IFMIF) to qualify materials for DEMO.
Rationale The Joint Research Centre supports the objectives of the European strategy for energy supply, particularly to help matching the Kyoto objectives.
The usefulness of the JRC in its support to EU Community policies and in its contribution to the new trends in nuclear research are based on its scientific expertise and its integration in the international scientific community and cooperation with other research centres as well as dissemination of knowledge.
The Joint Research Centre ; and on the other hand it supports the policy of the EU Community to maintain basic competencies and expertise for the future by giving access to its infrastructures to other researchers, by training young scientists and fostering their mobility and thus sustaining the nuclear know how in Europe.
The nuclear activities of the JRC aim to satisfy the R%amp%D requirements to support both Commission and Member States.
In addition the JRC will contribute and co-ordinate the European contribution to the Generation IV International Forum R%amp%D initiative, in which the best research organisations in the world are involved.
Furthermore, and bearing in mind that comparisons with other energy sources are essential in order to grasp the implications of the use of nuclear power, any information campaigns which are promoted or encouraged will also mention and explain the efforts being made by the EU at other levels to promote other energy sources, with particular regard to renewable sources of energy.
ANNEX II FUNDING SCHEMES Subject to the rules for participation established for the implementation of the seventh Framework Programme, the EU Community will support research and technological development activities, including demonstration activities in the specific programmes through a range of funding schemes.
These schemes will be used, either alone or in combination, to fund different categories of actions implemented throughout the Framework Programme. 1.
The Contracts of Association, between the Commission and Member States or fully Associated Third States or entities within Member States or fully Associated Third States which provide for the execution of part of the EU Community fusion energy research programme according to Article 10 of the Treaty; 1.2.
The European Fusion Development Agreement (EFDA), a multilateral agreement concluded between the Commission and organisations in, or acting for, Member States and Associated States providing inter alia the framework for further research on fusion technology in associated organisations and in industry, use of the JET facilities and the European contribution to international cooperation; 1.3.
The funding schemes are the following: a) To support actions which are primarily implemented on the basis of calls for proposals: 1.
Projects can range from small or medium-scale focused research actions to larger integrating projects which mobilise a significant volume of resources for achieving a defined objective. 2.
Networks of Excellence Support to joint research programmes implemented by a number of research organisations integrating their activities in a given field, carried out by research teams in the framework of longer term co-operation.
The implementation of these joint programmes will require a formal commitment from the organisations integrating part of their resources and their activities. 3.
b) to support actions implemented on the basis of decisions by the Council, based on a proposal from the Commission, the Community will provide financial support to multi-financed large-scale initiatives: - A financial contribution from the Community to the implementation of Joint Undertakings carried out on the basis of the procedures and provisions set out in articles 45 -51, Chapter 5 of Title II of the Euratom Treaty. - A financial contribution from the Community to the development of new infrastructures of European interest.
In compliance with this international framework, it will be necessary to be able to adjust the scale and form of financial participation on a case-by-case basis, in particular if funding from other public sector sources is available, including other sources of Community financing such as the European Investment Bank (EIB).
In accordance with Article 161 of the Financial Regulation, the Joint Research Centre may benefit from revenue from various types of competitive activities and from other services provided for outside bodies.
In accordance with Article 18 of the Financial Regulation, certain revenue may be used to finance specific items.
Annual requirements | 2007 | 2008 | 2009 | 2010 | 2011 | Total number of human resources | 1.223 | 1.223 | 1.223 | 1.223 | 1.223 | It will be necessary to consider year by year the consequences for human resources of the phasing out of the 6th Framework Programme and the phasing in of the 7th Framework Programme.
EU support can also contribute to a better integration of European R%amp%D; encouraging the coordination of national policies, the EU-wide dissemination of results, and funding research for pan-European policy challenges.
An in-depth analysis is provided in the ‘Impact Assessment and Ex Ante Evaluation Report for the Commission proposals for the Council and European Parliament decisions on the 7th Framework Programme (EC and Euratom)’ - SEC(2005) 430.
The objectives set out in Annex I aim to support the Lisbon agenda through Community funded research activities.
Method of Implementation (indicative) Show below the method(s)[67] chosen for the implementation of the action. ( Centralised Management ( Directly by the Commission ( Indirectly by delegation to: ( Executive Agencies ( Bodies set up by the Communities as referred to in art. 185 of the Financial Regulation ( National public-sector bodies/bodies with public-service mission ( Shared or decentralised management ( With Member states ( With Third countries ( Joint management with international organisations (please specify) Relevant comments: The European Joint Undertaking, based on the provisions of Articles 45-51, Title II of Chapter V of the Euratom Treaty, will be used for the creation of ITER (International Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor).
This evaluation is incorporated in the overall Impact Assessment report of the European Commission’s proposals for the European Parliament and Council decisions on the 7th Framework Programme (EC and Euratom).
Measures taken following an intermediate/ex-post evaluation (lessons learned from similar experiences in the past) A Five Year Assessment of the implementation and achievements of Community research over the five preceding years was carried out between June-December 2004 by a panel of independent high level experts.
The results of the Five Year Assessment were made available on 10 February 2005 and communicated to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions.
Two years following the completion of this framework programme, the Commission shall have carried out an external evaluation by independent experts of its rationale, implementation and achievements.
Furthermore, this report could feed into future ex ante evaluation and impact assessments by the Commission.
These include measures such as financial collective responsibility, sanctions against overcharging, measures to ensure the effective recovery of amounts due to the Commission, and administrative and legal measures taken to ensure full compliance with the Financial Regulation.
The countries associated with the Framework Programme for Research were invited to join in 2004. [29] Convergence regions are those set out in Article 5 of the proposal for a Council Regulation laying down general provisions on the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund and the Cohesion Fund - COM(2004) 492.
This includes “convergence” objective regions, regions eligible for funding from the Cohesion fund, and outermost regions. [30] At present 10 Mediterranean Partner Countries and 6 countries of Eastern European and Central Asia are part of the European Neighbourhood Policy [31] Other than Associated Candidate countries [32] Formerly called the New Independent States: Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, Moldova, Russia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine and Uzbekistan.
This includes “convergence” objective regions, regions eligible for funding from the Cohesion fund, and outermost regions. [38] Differentiated appropriations. [39] Non-differentiated appropriations here after referred to as NDA. [40] Expenditure that does not fall under Chapter xx 01 of the Title xx concerned. [41] Expenditure within article xx 01 05 of Title xx. [42] Expenditure within chapter xx 01 other than articles xx 01 05. [43] See points 19 and 24 of the Interinstitutional agreement. [44] If more than one method is indicated please provide additional details in the "Relevant comments" section of this point. [45] The following amounts represent (cash prices) the heading 1 a) of the financial framework related to “Establishing a European research area, …” not including the part related to Innovation. [46] As described under Section 5.3. [47] Including 800 Mio ¬ for RSFF (proportional contribution by all thematic priorities except socio-economic research). [48] Including 200 Mio ¬ for RSFF from Research infrastructure. [49] Cost of which on. [50] As described under Section 5.3. [51] Including 800 Mio € for RSFF (proportional contribution by all thematic priorities except socio-economic research). [52] Including 200 Mio € for RSFF from Research infrastructure. [53] Cost of which is NOT covered by the reference amount. [54] Cost of which is NOT covered by the reference amount. [55] Cost of which is included within the reference amount. [56] A total number of 209 statutory posts (157 supplementary and 52 frozen) over the period 2007-2013 corresponds to staff that will be allocated to executive agencies.
The indicative breakdown per specific programme, based strictly on a pro-rata budgetary estimate, is as follows: Co-operation (127), Ideas (46), People (19), Capacities (17). [57] OJ C , , p. . [58] OJ C , , p. . [59] OJ C , , p. . [60] Not published in the OJ. [61] COM(2005)387 [62] OJ L 312, 23.12.1995, p. 1. [63] OJ L 292, 15.11.1996, p. 2. [64] OJ L 136, 31.5.1999, p. 1. [65] Convergence regions are those set out in Article 5 of the proposal for a Council Regulation laying down general provisions on the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund and the Cohesion Fund - COM(2004) 492.
This includes “convergence” objective regions, regions eligible for funding from the Cohesion fund, and outermost regions. [66] Differentiated appropriations. [67] Non-differentiated appropriations hereafter referred to as NDA. [68] Expenditure that does not fall under Chapter xx 01 of the Title xx concerned. [69] Expenditure within article xx 01 05 of Title xx. [70] See points 19 and 24 of the Interinstitutional agreement. [71] If more than one method is indicated please provide additional details in the "Relevant comments" section of this point. [72] The Euratom programme covers the period 2007-2011.
