The 15 April deadline has proved to be too strict and should be replaced by 30 April (Article 6).
In relation to the principle of the unit of account , it should be clarified that the rules on the rate of conversion between the euro and other currencies contained in Articles 7 and 8 IR only apply to conversions carried out by authorising officers and not to conversions carried out by contractors or beneficiaries following the specific rules agreed in contracts or grant agreements.
In addition, for reasons of transparency and equal treatment of Community officials, a specific rule on conversion rates is established in Article 8 for staff expenditure paid in a currency other than the euro.
The accounting officer Following the introduction of accrual accounting on 1 January 2005, as the accounting data are available at any moment in the informatics system, it is more logical and quicker to draw up the trial balance the day on which the accounting officer terminates his duty.
If he terminates his duty on 31 December, the trial balance could be prepared the same day without waiting for the finalisation of the provisional accounts (Article 56).
Article 64 needs to be adjusted to take account of the developments of the third-party files managed by the accounting officer's staff in order to be able to ascertain at any moment the financial position of third parties with whom the Commission incurs expenses or conducts operations. 2.3.
The provision on bank guarantees concerning fines , periodic penalty payments and other penalties, in case of appeal by the debtor, should be adapted (Article 85a).
In that case, the authorising officer, in accordance with his risk assessment, must carry out appropriate ex post verification (Article 47).
It should also be specified that all contracts with a value less than or equal to EUR 60 000 may be awarded after a negotiated procedure (Article 129 and consequently Articles 119, 126, 128, 146).
Grants Certain provisions in the title on grants should be amended in order to simplify the procedures for grants and for grants of small amount (less than or equal to EUR 25 000), in accordance with the general principle of proportionality enshrined in the EC Treaty.
Applicants should be informed as soon as possible of the rejection of their application (Article 179).
Grant applications (Article 173) should be made easier for grants of a small amount (Article 164).
It should thus be specified that a pre-financing guarantee is required for any pre-financing exceeding 80% of the total amount of the grant and EUR 60 000, (Article 182).
Accounting The title on presentation of the accounts and accounting should be updated to take account of the adoption by the Commission's accounting officer in December 2004, pursuant to Article 133 of the Financial Regulation, of the accounting rules and methods and the harmonised chart of accounts .
In particular, the competitive negotiated procedure should be improved in the same way as for low-value contracts and the negotiated procedure should be allowed in the event of two failures of a competitive negotiated procedure and in the event of one failure when the competitive negotiated procedure follows the unsuccessful use of a framework contract (Articles 241, 242, 243, 244, 245).
The option of waiving the requirement for a guarantee in the case of pre-financing to a public body should be allowed and the performance guarantee should be required only in the event of procurement with a high value (Article 250).
Moreover, the pre-information notice should be published as early as possible and not necessarily before 31 January (Article 240) and an evaluation committee or a contracting authority should be allowed to ask candidates and tenderers for clarification , as is the case for contracts awarded by the institutions on their own account (Article 252). 2.11.
The pre-information notice should be published as early as possible and not necessarily before 31 January.
Without prejudice to specific provisions arising from the application of sector-specific regulations, conversion between the euro and another currency by the responsible authorising officer shall be made using the daily euro exchange rate published in the C series of the Official Journal of the European Union .
For the purposes of the accounts provided for in Articles 132 to 137 of the Financial Regulation and subject to Article 213 of this Regulation, conversion between the euro and another currency shall be made using the monthly accounting exchange rate of the euro.
That accounting exchange rate shall be established by the Commission's accounting officer by means of any source of information he regards as reliable, on the basis of the exchange rate on the penultimate working day of the month preceding that for which the rate is established.
Article 8 Rate to be used for conversion between the euro and other currencies (Article 16 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
Without prejudice to specific provisions deriving from the application of sector-specific regulations, or from specific procurement contracts, grant agreements and financing agreements, the rate to be used for conversion between the euro and other currencies shall, in cases where the conversion is carried out by the responsible authorising officer, be that of the day on which the payment order or recovery order is drawn up by the authorising department. 2.
For the regularisation of imprest accounts in national currencies, as referred to in Article 16 of the Financial Regulation, the rate to be used for the conversion between the euro and other currencies shall be that of the month of the expenditure from the imprest account concerned. 4.
For the reimbursement of flat-rate expenditure, or expenditure arising from the Staff Regulations of Officials and the Conditions of Employment of Other Servants of the European Communities (hereinafter: “Staff Regulations”) which is fixed at a ceiling, and which is paid in a currency other than the euro, the rate to be used shall be that which is in force when the entitlement arises.” (4) Article 21 is replaced by the following: "Article 21 Evaluation (Article 27 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
Each institution shall inform the budgetary authority whenever an authorising officer by delegation takes up his duties, changes duties or terminates his duties." (6) Article 47 is amended as follows: (a) In paragraph 3, the following subparagraphs are added: “For the purpose of ex ante verification, a series of similar individual transactions relating to routine expenditure on salaries, pensions, reimbursement of mission expenses and medical expenses may be considered by the authorising officer responsible to constitute a single operation.
In the case referred to in the second subparagraph, the authorising officer responsible shall, depending on his risk assessment, carry out an appropriate ex post verification, in accordance with paragraph 4.” (b) Paragraph 5 is replaced by the following: “5.
The members of staff responsible for the verifications referred to in paragraphs 2 and 4 shall be different from those members of staff performing the tasks of initiation referred to in paragraph 1 and they shall not be subordinate to the latter.” (7) In Article 54, the first sentence is replaced by the following: “Authorising officers by delegation shall record, for each financial year, contracts concluded under the negotiated procedures referred to in Articles 126(1)(a) to (g), 127(1)(a) to (d), 242, 244 and 246.” (8) Article 56 is replaced by the following: “Article 56 Termination of duties of the accounting officer (Article 61 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The trial balance accompanied by a handing-over report shall be transmitted by the accounting officer who is terminating his duties or, if this is not possible, by an official in his department to the new accounting officer.
Where the debtor has a claim on the Communities that is certain, of a fixed amount and due, relating to a sum established by a payment order, the accounting officer shall, once the deadline referred to in Article 78(3)(b) has passed, recover established amounts receivable by offsetting.
In exceptional circumstances, where it is necessary to safeguard the financial interests of the Communities, when the accounting officer has justified reasons for believing that the amount due to the Communities would be lost, the accounting officer shall recover by offsetting before the deadline referred to in Article 78(3) (b). 2.
However, in agreement with the Member State or administrative entity concerned, the accounting officer may proceed with the recovery by offsetting before that deadline has passed. 3.
Without prejudice to Article 83, if the full amount has not been recovered by the deadline referred to in Article 78(3)(b) and specified in the debit note, the accounting officer shall inform the authorising officer responsible and shall without delay launch the procedure for effecting recovery by any means offered by the law, including, where appropriate, by enforcement of any guarantee lodged in advance.” (20) In Article 85, point (a) of the first paragraph is replaced by the following: "(a) the debtor undertakes to pay interest at the rate specified in Article 86 for the entire additional period allowed, starting from the deadline referred to in Article 78(3)(b);” (21) The following Article 85a is inserted: “Article 85a Recovery of fines, periodic penalty payments and other penalties (Articles 73 and 74 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
It shall cover the claim as to principal and the interest due as specified in Article 86(5). 2.
In the event of a financial guarantee, the latter shall be enforced or released.” (22) Article 86 is amended as follows: (a) Paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 are replaced by the following: “1.
The interest rate for amounts receivable not repaid on the deadline referred to in Article 78(3)(b) shall be the rate applied by the European Central Bank to its principal refinancing operations, as published in the C series of the Official Journal of the European Union , in force on the first calendar day of the month in which the deadline falls, increased by: (a) seven percentage points where the obligating event is a public supply and service contract referred to in Title V; (b) three and a half percentage points in all other cases. 3.
Interest shall be calculated from the calendar day following the deadline referred to in Article 78(3)(b) and specified in the debit note up to the calendar day on which the debt is repaid in full.” (b) Paragraph 5 is replaced by the following: “5.
In the case of fines, where the debtor provides a financial guarantee which is accepted by the accounting officer in lieu of a provisional payment, the interest rate applicable from the deadline referred to in Article 78(3)(b) shall be the rate referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article increased by only one and a half percentage points.” (23) Article 90 is replaced by the following: “Article 90 Financing decision (Article 75 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
For grants, the decision adopting the annual work programme referred to in Article 110 of the Financial Regulation shall be considered to be the financing decision within the meaning of Article 75 of the Financial Regulation, provided that it constitutes a sufficiently detailed framework.
Without prejudice to any specific provision of a basic act, any substantial change in a financing decision already adopted shall follow the same procedure as the initial decision.” (24) In Article 94(1), points (d) and (e) are replaced by the following: “(d) where the global commitment is implemented by a number of legal commitments, for which different authorising officers are responsible; (e) where, in connection with imprest accounts available for external action, legal commitments must be signed by members of staff of the local units referred to in Article 254 on the instructions of the authorising officer responsible, who remains, however, fully responsible for the underlying transaction.” (25) Article 100 is amended as follows: (a) Points (b) and (c) are replaced by the following: “(b) in respect of other remunerations such as staff paid on an hourly or daily basis: a statement signed by the authorised member of staff showing the days and hours worked; (c) in respect of overtime: a statement signed by the authorised member of staff certifying the amount of overtime worked;” (b) In point (d), point (ii) is replaced by the following: “(ii) the statement of mission expenses, signed by the member of staff on mission and by the administrative superior to whom the appropriate powers have been delegated, and showing, in particular, the place of mission, the dates and times of departure and arrival at the place of mission, travel expenses, subsistence expenses, and other expenses duly authorised on production of supporting documents;” (26) Article 101 is replaced by the following: "Article 101 Material form of "passed for payment" (Article 79 of the Financial Regulation) In a non-computerised system, “passed for payment” shall take the form of a stamp incorporating the signature of the authorising officer responsible or of a technically competent member of staff, empowered by the authorising officer responsible in accordance with Article 97.
The authorising officer responsible shall inform the beneficiary by means of a formal document of any suspension of the period allowed for approval of the report or certificate.
This single time-limit cannot exceed the aggregated maximum applicable periods for approval of the report or certificate and for payment.” (28) In Article 114, the fourth paragraph is replaced by the following: “On the basis of the report and the hearing, the institution shall adopt either a reasoned decision terminating the proceedings or a reasoned decision in accordance with Articles 22 and 86 of, and Annex IX to, the Staff Regulations.
Building contracts cover the purchase, long lease, usufruct, leasing, rental or hire purchase, with or without option to buy, of land, existing buildings or other real estate.” (30) In Article 118(3), the second sentence of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: “Without prejudice to contracts concluded after a negotiated procedure as referred to in Article 126, the contract notice shall be compulsory for the following contracts: contracts with an estimated value equal to or above the thresholds laid down in points (a) and (c) of Article 158(1); research and development contracts listed in category 8 of Annex II A to Directive 2004/18/EC with an estimated value of equal to or above the threshold laid down in point (b) of Article 158(1) of this Regulation for research and development contracts listed.” (31) In Article 119(1), point (b) is replaced by the following: “(b) the annual publication of a list of contractors, specifying the subject and the value of the contract awarded, for contracts with a value equal to or greater than EUR 25 000.” (32) In Article 126(1), the second subparagraph is replaced by the following: “Contracting authorities may also use the negotiated procedure without prior publication of a contract notice in the case of contracts with a value less than or equal to EUR 60 000.” (33) In Article 127(1), the following points (f) and (g) are added: “(f) for research and development services other than those where the benefits accrue exclusively to the contracting authority for its use in the conduct of its own affairs, on condition that the service provided is wholly remunerated by the contracting authority; (g) for service contracts for the acquisition, development, production or co-production of programme material intended for broadcasting by broadcasters and contracts for broadcasting time.” (34) In Article 128, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: “1.
A call for expressions of interest shall constitute a means of pre-selecting candidates who will be invited to submit tenders in response to future restricted invitations to tender for contracts with a value of more than EUR 60 000, subject to Articles 126 and 127.” (35) Article 129 is replaced by the following: “Article 129 Low-value contracts (Article 91 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
A negotiated procedure with consultation of at least five candidates may be used for contracts with a value less than or equal to EUR 60 000.
For contracts with a value less than or equal to EUR 25 000, the procedure referred to in paragraph 1 with consultation of at least three candidates may be used. 3.
Payments in respect of items of expenditure for an amount less than or equal to EUR 200 may consist simply in payment against invoices, without prior acceptance of a tender.” (36) Article 134 is replaced by the following: "Article134 Evidence (Articles 93 and 94 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
Candidates and tenderers shall provide a declaration on their honour, duly signed and dated, stating that they are not in one of the situations referred to in Article 93 or 94 of the Financial Regulation.
The tenderer to whom the contract is to be awarded shall provide, within a time limit defined by the contracting authority and preceding the signature of the contract, the evidence referred to in paragraph 3, confirming the declaration referred to in paragraph 1 in the following cases: (a) for contracts awarded by the institutions on their own account, with a value equal to or greater than the thresholds referred to in Article 158; (b) for contracts in the field of external actions with a value equal to or greater than the thresholds laid down in Article 241(1)(a), Article 243(1)(a), or Article 245(1)(a).
For contracts with a value less than the thresholds referred to in points (a) and (b), the contracting authority may, where it has doubts as to whether the tenderer to whom the contract is to be awarded is in one of the situations of exclusion, require him to provide the evidence referred to in paragraph 3. 3.
Where the document or certificate referred to in the first subparagraph is not issued in the country concerned and for the other cases of exclusion referred to in Article 93 of the Financial Regulation, it may be replaced by a sworn or, failing that, a solemn statement made by the interested party before a judicial or administrative authority, a notary or a qualified professional body in his country of origin or provenance. 4.
The contracting authority may, depending on its assessment of the risks, decide not to require proof of the financial, economic, technical and professional capacity of candidates or tenderers in the case of the following contracts: (a) contracts awarded by the institutions on their own account, with a value of less than or equal to EUR 60 000; (b) contracts awarded in the field of external actions, with a value below the thresholds referred to in Article 241(1)(a), Article 243(1)(a), or Article 245(1)(a).
Where the contracting authority decides not to require proof of the financial, economic, technical and professional capacity of candidates or tenderers, no pre-financing shall be made unless a financial guarantee of an equivalent amount is provided.” (38) In Article 138(1), the introductory words are replaced by the following: “Without prejudice to Article 94 of the Financial Regulation, contracts shall be awarded in one of the following two ways:” (39) In Article 145(2), the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: “Where the value of a contract exceeds the threshold laid down in Article 129(1), the authorising officer responsible shall appoint a committee to open the tenders.” (40) In Article 146(1), the second subparagraph is replaced by the following: “That committee shall be appointed by the authorising officer responsible to give an advisory opinion on contracts with a value above the threshold referred to in Article 129(1).” (41) Article 152 is replaced by the following: "Article 152 Guarantee for pre-financing (Article 102 of the Financial Regulation) A guarantee shall be required in return for the payment of pre-financing exceeding EUR 150 000 or in the case referred to in Article 135(6), second subparagraph.
However, where the contractor is a public body, the authorising officer responsible may, depending on his risk assessment, waive that obligation.
The guarantee shall be released as and when the pre-financing is deducted from interim payments or payments of balances to the contractor in accordance with the terms of the contract." (42) In Article 155, the title is replaced by the following: "Article 155 Separate contracts and contracts with lots (Articles 91 and 105 of the Financial Regulation)” (43) In Article 157, point (b) is replaced by the following: “(b) EUR 5 278 000 for works contracts.” (44) Article 158(1) is replaced by the following: “1.
The thresholds referred to in Article 105 of the Financial Regulation shall be: (a) EUR 137 000 for the supply and service contracts listed in Annex IIA to Directive 2004/18/EC, with the exception of the research and development contracts listed in category 8 of that Annex; (b) EUR 211 000 for the service contracts listed in Annex IIB to Directive 2004/18/EC and for the research and development service contracts listed in category 8 of Annex IIA to Directive 2004/18/EC; (c) EUR 5 278 000 for works contracts.” (45) In Article 162, point (a) is replaced by the following: “(a) a European body involved in education, training, information, innovation or research and study on European policies, any activities contributing to the promotion of citizenship or human rights, or a European standards body;” (46) In Article 164, the following paragraph 1a is inserted: “1a.
For grants with a total value of less than or equal to EUR 25 000, the authorising officer responsible may, depending on his risk assessment, waive the obligation to provide the evidence for co-financing referred to in paragraph 1.
Where a single beneficiary is awarded several grants in a financial year, the threshold of EUR 25 000 shall apply to the total of those grants.” (50) Article 173 is amended as follows: (a) Paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: “2.
The supporting documents may consist in particular in the profit and loss account and the balance sheet for the last financial year for which the accounts were closed.” (b) Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: (i) The first subparagraph is replaced by the following: “Where the application concerns grants for an action for which the amount exceeds EUR 500 000 or operating grants which exceed EUR 100 000, an audit report produced by an approved external auditor shall be submitted.
Financial and operational capacity shall be verified in particular on the basis of an analysis of any of the supporting documents referred to in Article 173 and requested by the authorising officer responsible in the call for proposals.” (b) In paragraph 4, the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: “The verification of financial capacity in accordance with paragraph 3 shall not apply to natural persons in receipt of scholarships, to public bodies or to the international organisations referred to in Article 43(2).” (52) Article 179 is replaced by the following: "Article 179 Information for applicants (Article 116 of the Financial Regulation) Applicants shall be informed as soon as possible and in any case within 15 calendar days after the award decision has been sent to the beneficiaries.” (53) Article 180 is amended as follows: (a) Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following “1.
The statement of the beneficiary's outlay shall be produced in support of any request for a new payment.” (b) Paragraph 2 is amended as follows: (i) The first subparagraph is replaced by the following: “A certificate on the financial statements and underlying accounts, produced by an approved auditor, or, in the case of public bodies, by a competent and independent public officer, may be demanded by the authorising officer responsible in support of any payment on the basis of his risk assessment.
The certificate shall certify, in accordance with a methodology approved by the authorising officer responsible, that the costs declared by the beneficiary in the financial statements on which the request for payment is based are real, accurately recorded and eligible in accordance with the grant agreement.” (ii) In the second subparagraph, the introductory words are replaced by the following: “Except in the case of lump sums and flat rate financing, the certificate on the financial statements and underlying accounts shall be compulsory for interim payments per financial year and for payments of balances in the following cases:” (iii) In the third subparagraph, the introductory words are replaced by the following: “Depending on his risk assessment , the authorising officer responsible may also waive the obligation to provide such certificate on the financial statements and underlying accounts in the case of:” (54) Article 182 is amended as follows: (a) Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: “1.
However, for grants with a value of less than or equal to EUR 10 000, the authorising officer responsible may require the beneficiary to lodge a guarantee in advance only in duly substantiated cases.
Whenever a guarantee is required, it is subject to the assessment and acceptance of the authorising officer responsible.” (b) In paragraph 2, the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: “Where the pre-financing represents over 80% of the total amount of the grant and provided it exceeds EUR 60 000, a guarantee shall be required.” (55) Articles 195, 196, 197, 198, 200 and 202 are deleted. (56) Article 211 is replaced by the following: "Article 211 Accounting reconciliations (Article 135 of the Financial Regulation) 1.
The accounting rules adopted under Article 133 of the Financial Regulation shall specify the conversion and re-evaluation rules to be provided for the purposes of accrual accounting.” (59) Article 222 is replaced by the following: "Article 222 Entry of items in the inventory (Article 138 of the Financial Regulation) All items acquired with a period of use greater than one year, which are not consumables, and whose purchase price or production cost is higher than that indicated in the accounting rules adopted under Article 133 of the Financial Regulation shall be entered in the inventory and recorded in the fixed assets accounts.” (60) In Article 240, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: “1.
The pre-information notice for international calls for tender shall be sent to the office for Official Publications of the European Communities as early as possible for supply and service contracts and as quickly as possible after the decision authorising the programme for works contracts.” (61) Article 241 is amended as follows: (a) Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: (i) In the first subparagraph, point (a) is replaced by the following: “(a) for contracts with a value of EUR 200 000 or more: an international restricted invitation to tender within the meaning of Article 122(2) and point (a) of Article 240(2);” (ii) The second subparagraph is replaced by the following: “Contracts with a value less than or equal to EUR 5 000 may be awarded on the basis of a single tender.” (b) In paragraph 2, the following subparagraph is added: “If the number of candidates satisfying the selection criteria or the minimum capacity levels is less than the minimum number, the contracting authority may invite to submit a tender only those candidates who satisfy the criteria to submit a tender.” (c) Paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: “3.
The procedure involves limited competitive tendering, without publication of a notice and shall be known as a competitive negotiated procedure not covered by Article 124.
If, following consultation of the tenderers, the contracting authority receives only one tender that is administratively and technically valid, the contract may be awarded provided that the award criteria are met.” (62) Article 242 is amended as follows: (a) Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: (i) The first subparagraph is amended as follows: - The introductory words are replaced by the following: “For service contracts, contracting authorities may use the negotiated procedure with a single tender in the following cases:” - The following point (g) is added: “(g) where one attempt for the use of the competitive negotiated procedure following the unsuccessful use of a framework contract has failed.
In this case, after cancelling the competitive negotiated procedure, the contracting authority may negotiate with one or more tenderers of its choice, from among those that took part in the invitation to tender, provided that the original terms of the contract are not substantially altered.” (ii) The following subparagraph is added: “Where the Commission is not the contracting authority, the use of the negotiated procedure is subject to the prior agreement of the responsible authorising officer.” (b) Paragraph 2 is amended as follows: (i) Point (b) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: “(b) additional services consisting in the repetition of similar services entrusted to the contractor providing services under a first contract, provided that: (i) a contract notice was published for the first service and the possibility of using the negotiated procedure for new services for the project and the estimated cost were clearly indicated in the contract notice published for the first service; (ii) the extension of the contract is a single one and for a value and duration not exceeding the value and the duration of the initial contract.” (ii) The second subparagraph is deleted. (63) Article 243 is amended as follows: (a) Paragraph 1 is amended as follows (i) In the first subparagraph, points (a) and (b) are replaced by the following: “(a) for contracts with a value of EUR 150 000 or more: an international open invitation to tender within the meaning of Article 122(2) and point (a) of Article 240(2); (b) for contracts with a value of EUR 30 000 or more but less than EUR 150 000: a local open invitation to tender within the meaning of Article 122(2) and point (b) of Article 240(2);” (ii) The second subparagraph is replaced by the following: “Contracts with a value less than or equal to EUR 5 000 may be awarded on the basis of a single tender.” (b) Paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: “2.
If following consultation of the suppliers, the contracting authority receives only one tender that is administratively and technically valid, the contract may be awarded provided that the award criteria are met.” (64) Article 244(1) is amended as follows: (a) The introductory words are replaced by the following: “Supply contracts may be awarded by negotiated procedure with a single tender in the following cases:” (b) The following point (e) is added: “(e) where after two attempts the competitive negotiated tender procedure has been unsuccessful, that is to say, where no administratively and technically valid tender or no qualitatively and/or financially worthwhile tender has been received.
If following consultation of the contractors, the contracting authority receives only one tender that is administratively and technically valid, the contract may be awarded provided that the award criteria are met.” (66) Article 246(1) is amended as follows: (a) The first subparagraph is amended as follows: (i) the introductory words are replaced by the following: “Works contracts may be awarded by negotiated procedure with a single tender in the following cases:” (ii) the following point (d) is added: “(d) where the competitive negotiated tender procedure, after two attempts, has been unsuccessful, that is to say, where no administratively and technically valid tender or no qualitatively and/or financially worthwhile tender has been received.
Where the pre-financing exceeds EUR 150 000, a guarantee shall be required.
However, where the contractor is a public body, the responsible authorising officer may, depending on his risks assessment, waive that obligation.
If the contract is not properly performed the entire guarantee shall be retained." (68) In Article 252(3) the following subparagraph is added: “However, the evaluation committee or the contracting authority may ask candidates or tenderers to supply additional material or to clarify the supporting documents submitted in connection with the exclusion and selection criteria, within the time-limit they specify and having respect to the principle of equal treatment.” (69) In Article 257, in the first paragraph, point (c) is replaced by the following: “(c) The European Communities Personnel Selection Office and the European Administrative School administratively attached to it;” (70) In Article 260, the second paragraph is deleted. (71) In Article 262, the following paragraphs are added: “Budgetary commitments corresponding to administrative appropriations of a type common to all titles and which are managed globally may be recorded globally in the budgetary accounting following the summary classification by type as set out in Article 27.
The corresponding expenditure shall be booked to the budget lines of each title according to the same distribution as for appropriations.” (72) In Article 264, the following paragraph is added: “However, where, for transactions in third countries, it is not possible to use any of those forms of rent guarantees, the authorising officer responsible may accept other forms provided that those forms ensure equivalent protection of the Communities’ financial interests.” (73) In Article 271, paragraphs 1 and 2 are replaced by the following: “1.
The thresholds and amounts laid down in Articles 54, 67, 119, 126, 128, 129, 130, 135, 151, 152, 164, 172, 173, 180, 181, 182, 226, 241, 243, 245 and 250 shall be updated every three years in line with movements in the consumer price index in the Community. 2.
The other institutions made no observations. [2] OJ L 248, 16.9.2002, p. 1. [3] OJ L 357, 31.12.2002, p. 1.
Regulation as amended by Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1261/2005 (OJ L 201, 2.8.2005, p. 3). [4] OJ L 134, 30.4.2004, p. 114.
Directive as last amended by Commission Regulation (EC) No 2083/2005 (OJ L 333, 20.12.2005, p. 28). [5] OJ L 37, 10.2.2005, p. 14.
