INTRODUCTION On 26 October 2004, the European Community signed an Agreement with the Swiss Confederation regarding criteria and mechanisms for establishing the State responsible for examining a request for asylum lodged in a Member State or in Switzerland (the "Dublin/Eurodac agreement with Switzerland")[1].
That Agreement anticipated Liechtenstein's possible association with the Dublin/Eurodac acquis and made provision in its Article 15 for Liechtenstein to accede to the Agreement by means of a protocol determining the rights and obligations of each of the contracting parties.
By letter dated 12 October 2001, Liechtenstein had already expressed its interest in joining Switzerland as a contracting party to a possible Schengen and Dublin agreement since an open borders policy for the movement of persons has existed between Switzerland and Liechtenstein for decades.
By letter dated 10 June 2005, Liechtenstein confirmed its wish to be associated to the Schengen and Dublin/Eurodac acquis.
Article 2 In accordance with Article 8 (3) of the Protocol, Article 1, 4 and the first sentence of Article 5(2) of the Protocol and the rights and obligations set out in Articles 2, 3 (1) to (4) of the agreement between the European Community and the Swiss Confederation concerning the criteria and mechanisms for establishing the State responsible for examining a request for asylum lodged in a Member State or in Switzerland shall be applied on a provisional basis as of the date on which this Protocol is signed.
Article 2 The President of the Council is hereby authorised to designate the person empowered to deposit on behalf of the European Community the instrument of approval provided for in Article 8(1) of the Protocol, in order to express the consent of the Community to be bound.
Article 3 This Decision shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union .
In accordance with Article 15 of the agreement between the European Community and the Swiss Confederation concerning the criteria and mechanisms for establishing the State responsible for examining a request for asylum lodged in a Member State or in Switzerland (hereinafter referred to as “the agreement between the European Community and Switzerland”), the Principality of Liechtenstein (hereinafter referred to as "Liechtenstein") accedes to that agreement, under the terms and conditions set out in this Protocol. 2.
The provisions of the - Dublin Regulation[9]; - Eurodac Regulation[10]; - Eurodac implementing Regulation[11]; and - the Dublin implementing Regulation[12] shall be implemented by Liechtenstein, and applied in its relations with the Member States of the European Union and with Switzerland. 2.
For the purposes of paragraphs 1 and 2, references to the “Member States” in the provisions referred to in paragraph 1 shall be deemed to include Liechtenstein.
Article 4 A representative of the Government of Liechtenstein becomes member of the Mixed Committee as established by Article 3 of the Agreement between the European Community and Switzerland.
Subject to paragraph 2, when the Council adopts acts or measures amending or building upon the provisions of Article 2 and when acts or measures are adopted in accordance with the procedures set out in those provisions, those acts or measures shall be applied simultaneously by the Member States and Liechtenstein, except where express provisions exist to the contrary. 2.
Acceptance by Liechtenstein of the acts and measures referred to in paragraph 1 shall create rights and obligations between Liechtenstein, Switzerland and the Member States of the European Union. 6.
If: (a) Liechtenstein notifies its decision not to accept the contents of an act or measure referred to in paragraph 1 and to which the procedures set out in this Protocol have been applied; or (b) Liechtenstein does not carry out notification within the thirty-day time limit referred to in paragraph 2; (c) Liechtenstein does not carry out the notification at the latest 30 days after the referendum deadline has expired or, in the case of a referendum, within the 18 months time limit set out in paragraph 3, or does not provide for provisional implementation as envisaged in the same subparagraph from the date laid down for the entry into force of the act or measure concerned; this Protocol shall be suspended. 7.
Article 7 This Protocol shall not affect agreements between Liechtenstein and Switzerland in so far as they are compatible with this Protocol.
Article 1, 4 and the first sentence of Article 5(2) of this protocol and the rights and obligations set out in Articles 2, 3 (1) to (4) of the agreement between the European Community and Switzerland shall apply provisionally to Liechtenstein as of the date on which this Protocol is signed.
Article 9 With respect to acts or measures adopted after this Protocol has been signed but before it enters into force, the thirty-day period referred to in Article 5(2), last sentence shall start to run from the day of entry into force of this Protocol.
This Protocol shall be applied only if the agreements referred to in Article 11 of the agreement between the European Community and Switzerland that need to be concluded by Liechtenstein are also implemented. 2.
This Protocol shall be considered to have been terminated if Liechtenstein terminates one of the agreements referred to in Article 11 of the Agreement between the European Community and Switzerland that have been concluded by Liechtenstein or the Protocol referred to in Article 10(2).
Article 12 This Protocol shall be drawn up in triplicates in the Czech, Danish, Dutch, English, Estonian, Finnish, French, Gaelic, German, Greek, Hungarian, Italian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Maltese, Polish, Portuguese, Slovak, Slovenian, Spanish and Swedish languages, each text being equally authentic.
Done at Brussels, For the Council The President [1] The same day, the European Union, the European Community and the Swiss Confederation signed an Agreement on the Swiss Confederation's association with the implementation, application and development of the Schengen acquis (the "Schengen acquis association agreement"). [2] As well as the draft Protocol on its accession to the Schengen Agreement with Switzerland and the draft Protocol on Denmark's participation in the Dublin/Eurodac Agreement with Switzerland and Liechtenstein. [3] OJ C … [4] OJ C … [5] OJ C … [6] ASILE 54, 13049/04 [7] OJ L 93, 3.4.2001, p.38 [8] OJ L 281, 23.11.1995, p. 31. [9] Council Regulation (EC) No 343/2003 of 18 February 2003 establishing the criteria and mechanisms for determining the Member State responsible for examining an asylum application lodged in one of the Member States by a third-country national [10] Commission Regulation (EC) No 1560/2003 of 2 September 2003 laying down detailed rules for the application of Council Regulation (EC) No 343/2003 establishing the criteria and mechanisms for determining the Member State responsible for examining an asylum application lodged in one of the Member States by a third-country national [11] Council Regulation (EC) No 2725/2000 of 11 December 2000 concerning the establishment of “Eurodac” for the comparison of fingerprints for the effective application of the Dublin Convention [12] Council Regulation (EC) No 407/2002 of 28 February 2002 laying down certain rules to implement Regulation (EC) No 2725/2000 concerning the establishment of "Eurodac" for the comparison of fingerprints for the effective application of the Dublin Convention
