It is therefore proposed that the Council adopt the attached proposal for a Regulation extending the definitive anti-dumping duty of EUR 3479 per tonne imposed on imports of coumarin originating in the PRC to imports of coumarin consigned from India or Thailand, whether declared as originating in India or Thailand or not, with the exemption of imports of coumarin genuinely produced and sold by Atlas Fine Chemicals Pvt.
The Regulation should be published in the Official Journal on 7 January 2005 at the latest.
Existing measures Following an expiry review, by Regulation (EC) No 769/2002[2] (‘the original Regulation’), the Council imposed a definitive anti-dumping duty of EUR 3479 per tonne on imports of coumarin, falling within CN code ex 2932 21 00 originating in the People’s Republic of China (‘PRC’). 2.
The request alleged that there had been a change in the pattern of trade following the imposition of the anti-dumping measures on imports of coumarin originating in the PRC, as shown by a significant increase in imports of the same product from India and Thailand.
This change in the pattern of trade was alleged to stem from the transhipment of coumarin originating in the PRC via India and Thailand.
Initiation The Commission initiated an investigation by Regulation (EC) No 661/2004[3] (‘the initiating Regulation’) into the alleged circumvention of the anti-dumping measures imposed on imports of coumarin originating in the PRC by imports of coumarin consigned from India or Thailand, whether declared as originating in India or Thailand or not and, pursuant to Articles 13(3) and 14(5) of the basic Regulation, directed the customs authorities to register imports of coumarin consigned from India or Thailand, whether declared as originating in India or Thailand or not, falling within CN code ex 2932 21 00 (TARIC codes 2932 21 00 11 and 2932 21 00 15), as from 9 April 2004.
All parties were informed that non-cooperation might lead to the application of Article 18 of the basic Regulation and findings being made on the basis of the facts available.
The Commission carried out a verification visit at the premises of the following Indian exporting producer: Atlas Fine Chemicals Pvt.
Ltd, Nasik, India 5.
General considerations/degree of cooperation (a) Thailand No producers or exporters of coumarin in Thailand made themselves known or co-operated in the investigation.
Accordingly, findings in respect of the exports of coumarin consigned from Thailand to the Community had to be made on the basis of the facts available in accordance with Article 18 of the basic Regulation.
At the outset of the investigation, the authorities of Thailand had been informed of the consequences of non-cooperation, as set out in Article 18(6) of the basic Regulation. (b) India One exporting producer in India, Atlas Fine Chemicals Pvt.
Ltd, India (‘Atlas’), cooperated, representing more than 90% in volume and value of the total imports of coumarin from India during the IP.
However, the verification visit revealed that Atlas has two related companies in India: Monolith Chemicals Pvt.
and Aims Impex Pvt.
It was made clear to these companies that non-cooperation may lead to the application of Article 18 of the basic Regulation.
Product concerned and like product The product concerned by the alleged circumvention is, as defined in the original Regulation, coumarin currently classifiable within CN code ex 2932 21 00.
Thailand As no Thai company cooperated in the investigation, exports from Thailand to the Community had to be established on the basis of the facts available pursuant to Article 18 of the basic Regulation.
Imports of coumarin from Thailand increased from 0 tonne in 2000 to 211 tonnes in the IP.
These imports from Thailand commenced in October 2001, some months after the initiation of expiry review concluded in 2002 (‘the previous investigation’), when it could not be excluded that the measures imposed by Council Regulation (EC) No 600/96[4] would be maintained.
The share of the imports consigned from Thailand in the total volume of imports of coumarin into the Community increased from 0% in 2000 to 50% in the IP, while the share of imports into the Community of coumarin from the PRC remained stable at 7% during the same period.
In addition, Chinese export statistics at CN code level show that during the same period exports of coumarin from the PRC in Thailand substantially increased from 1 tonne in 2000 to 270 tonnes in the IP.
In the absence of cooperation and of any contrary evidence it is concluded that there was a change in the pattern of trade between the PRC, Thailand and the Community from 2000 to the IP which stemmed from transhipment of coumarin originating in the PRC via Thailand.
India The share of the imports consigned from India in the total volume of imports of coumarin into the Community increased from 11% in 2000 to 35% in the IP, while the share of imports into the Community of coumarin from the PRC remained stable at 7% during the same period.
Furthermore, Chinese export statistics at CN code level show that during the same period exports of coumarin from the PRC to India substantially increased from 88 tonnes in 2000 to 687 tonnes in the IP.
It was also noted that imports from India have compensated to some extent for the decrease in imports from the PRC since measures were originally imposed by Regulation (EC) No 600/96. (a) Co-operating exporting producer in India Atlas substantially and continuously increased its exports to the Community from 100[5] in the financial year (‘FY’) 2000/2001[6] to 1957 in the IP.
As far as this non-cooperating company is concerned, and indeed any other producers that may exist but have chosen not to co-operate, the export volume and value had to be established on the basis of the facts available pursuant to Article 18 of the basic Regulation.
Given the non-cooperation and the small market share of the non-cooperating companies, it was found that the information available for the non-cooperating companies was not such as to invalidate the finding of a change in the pattern of trade. (c) Conclusion for India On the basis of the above findings, it is concluded that there was a change in the pattern of trade between India, the PRC and the Community from 2000 to the IP which stemmed from re-export after a slight modification of coumarin originating in the PRC via India by the co-operating company and transhipment of coumarin originating in the PRC via India by non-co-operating companies. 4.
Insufficient due cause or economic justification Thailand As to imports from Thailand, in the absence of cooperation and of any contrary evidence, it is concluded that, given that the imports started some months after the initiation of the previous investigation, probably in anticipation of a renewed imposition of the existing anti-dumping measures, the change in the pattern of trade stemmed from the existence of the anti-dumping measures rather than from any other sufficient due cause or economic justification within the meaning of Article 13(1) of the basic Regulation.
Strikes therefore do not appear to be a sufficient justification for the fact that the portion of the coumarin originating in the PRC and used by Atlas in the production process increased from around 25% in 2000 to more than 70% in the IP[10].
It is therefore concluded that the change in the pattern of trade stemmed from the existence of the anti-dumping measures rather than from any other sufficient due cause or economic justification within the meaning of Article 13(1) of the basic Regulation.
While imports declared as originating in Thailand were absent on the Community market until October 2001, they amounted to 211 tonnes in the IP.
Average prices of imports from Thailand were also 20% lower than the Chinese export prices during the IP of the current investigation.
On the basis of the above, it is concluded that the change in trade flows, together with the abnormally low prices of exports from Thailand have undermined the remedial effects of the anti-dumping measures both in terms of quantities and prices of the like products.
India Based on the trade flow analysis made above, it was found that a change in the pattern of trade is linked to the fact that there were anti-dumping measures in place.
While imports consigned from India represented only 11% of the total volume of imports of coumarin into the Community in 2000, they amounted to 35% in the IP.
Average prices of imports from India were also 14% lower than the Chinese export prices during the IP of the current investigation.
On the basis of the above, it is concluded that the change in trade flows, together with the abnormally low prices of exports from India have undermined the remedial effects of the anti-dumping measures both in terms of quantities and prices of the like products.
Atlas claimed that it is unreasonable to compare Chinese export prices to the Community in 1994 (i.e.
However, the reality is that Indian export prices were compared with the Chinese export prices established in the IP of the expiry review concluded in 2002. 6.
Evidence of dumping in relation to the normal values previously established for like or similar products Thailand In order to determine whether evidence of dumping could be found with respect to the product concerned exported to the Community from Thailand during the IP, Eurostat data were used pursuant to Article 18 of the basic Regulation.
Article 13(1) of the basic Regulation requires evidence of dumping in relation to the normal value previously established for the like or similar products.
For the purpose of a fair comparison between the normal value and the export price, due allowance, in the form of adjustments, was made for differences which affect prices and price comparability.
In accordance with Articles 2(11) and 2(12) of the basic Regulation, the comparison of the weighted average normal value as established in the previous investigation and the weighted average of export prices during this investigation’s IP, expressed as a percentage of the CIF price at the Community frontier, duty unpaid, showed dumping for the imports of coumarin to the Community from Thailand.
India In order to determine whether evidence of dumping could be found with respect to the product concerned exported to the Community from India during the IP, export prices provided by the Indian cooperating producer and, for the non-cooperating companies Eurostat data were used pursuant to Article 18 of the basic Regulation. (a) Co-operating exporting producer For the purpose of a fair comparison between the normal value and the export price for Atlas, due allowance, in the form of adjustments, was made for differences which affect prices and price comparability.
In accordance with Articles 2(11) and 2(12) of the basic Regulation, the comparison of the weighted average normal value as established in the previous investigation and the weighted average of export prices during this investigation’s IP, expressed as a percentage of the CIF price at the Community frontier, duty unpaid, showed dumping for the imports of coumarin consigned by Atlas.
This is in line with the requirements of Article 13(1) of the basic Regulation. (b) Non-cooperating companies For the purpose of a fair comparison between the normal value and the export price, due allowance, in the form of adjustments, was made for differences which affect prices and price comparability.
In accordance with Articles 2(11) and 2(12) of the basic Regulation, the comparison of the weighted average normal value as established in the previous investigation and the weighted average of export prices during this investigation’s IP, expressed as a percentage of the CIF price at the Community frontier, duty unpaid, showed dumping for the imports of coumarin to the Community from the non-cooperating companies in India.
MEASURES In view of the above findings of circumvention within the meaning of Article 13(1) of the basic Regulation, the existing anti-dumping measures on imports of the product concerned originating in the PRC should be extended to the same product consigned from India and Thailand, whether declared as originating in India or Thailand or not.
The duty extended should be the one established in Article 1(2) of the original Regulation.
The investigation revealed that Atlas had circumvented the anti-dumping measures in force through re-export, after a slight modification, of coumarin originating in the PRC.
UNDERTAKING However, given the fungible nature of the product and the difficulties encountered by Atlas during the IP to distinguish products manufactured in India from the Phenol route and Chinese originating coumarin further purified and re-exported to the Community, it is exceptionally considered appropriate to accept an undertaking from Atlas, whereby the company would sell to the Community coumarin genuinely produced in India up to a quantitative ceiling corresponding to the quantity of such a product sold to the Community during the IP.
This undertaking from Atlas may be accepted by the Commission by a Commission Decision.
If Atlas breaches the undertaking or if the undertaking was proved to be otherwise unworkable, the Commission may withdraw its acceptance, HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: Article 1 1.
The definitive anti-dumping duty imposed by Council Regulation (EC) No 769/2002 on imports of coumarin, falling within CN code ex 2932 21 00 originating in the People’s Republic of China is hereby extended to imports of coumarin, falling within CN code ex 2932 21 00 consigned from India or Thailand, whether declared as originating in India or Thailand or not (TARIC codes 2932 21 00 11 and 2932 21 00 15). 2.
The duty extended by paragraph 1 of this Article shall be collected on imports registered in accordance with Article 2 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 661/2004 and Articles 13(3) and 14(5) of Council Regulation (EC) No 384/96, with the exception of the goods exported by Atlas Fine Chemicals Pvt Ltd., Debhanu Mansion, Nasik-Pune Highway, Nasik Road, MS 422 101, India, (TARIC additional code A579). 3.
The request must be sent to the following address: European CommissionDirectorate-General for TradeDirectorate BOffice: J-79 05/17B - 1049 BrusselsFax (32 2) 295 65 05Telex COMEU B 21877. 2.
Article 4 Customs authorities are hereby directed to discontinue the registration of imports, established in accordance with Article 2 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 661/2004.
Article 5 This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union .
The name of the company referred to in Article 2.1 issuing the commercial invoice 3.
The commercial invoice number 4.
The date of issue of the commercial invoice 5.
The TARIC additional code under which the goods on the invoice are to be customs cleared at the Community frontier 6.
Name of the company acting as an importer in the Community to which the commercial invoice accompanying goods subject to an undertaking is issued directly by the company. 8.
I declare that the information provided in this invoice is complete and correct.” [1] OJ L 56, 6.3.1996, p. 1.
Regulation as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 461/2004 (OJ L 77, 13.3.2004, p. 12). [2] OJ L 123, 9.5.2002, p. 1.
Regulation as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 1854/2003 (OJ L 272, 23.10.2003, p. 1). [3] OJ L 104, 8.4.2004, p. 99. [4] OJ L 86, 4.4.1996, p. 1. [5] For reasons of confidentiality, data in this paragraph have been indexed. [6] FY=financial year, covering the period from 1 April of one year to 31 March of the following year. [7] Ranges given for confidentiality reasons. [8] For reasons of confidentiality, precise data are not given. [9] For reasons of confidentiality, precise data are not given. [10] For reasons of confidentiality, precise data are not given. [11] Ranges given for confidentiality reasons.
