This was the means by which Colonel Ould Taya seized the power in 1984, succeeding President Ould Haidallah.
In 2001 fresh and more democratically organised general elections were held and, despite an overwhelmingly majority for the party in power and its allies, a group of opposition candidates were elected.
The last coup attempts, mounted by Islamist-inspired members of the armed forces, took place in June 2003 and between August and September 2004.
Mauritania is not a member of either ECOWAS (which it left in 2000) or UEMOA, but it is member of the Arab Maghreb Union ( Union du Maghreb Arabe - UMA).
This is the backdrop to the coup on 3 August 2005.
The CMJD is chaired by Colonel Ely Ould Mohamed Vall, who was Director of National Security under the former government, and made up of 15 other colonels and a navy captain.
The CMJD has promulgated a constitutional charter putting an end to the powers of the parliament elected in 2001.
The coup of 3 August was condemned by the international community, in particular by the UN Secretary-General, the President of the African Union Commission (which suspended Mauritania), the Presidency of the European Union, and the European Commission.
Having sent a mission to Nouakchott and in view of developments there, the Peace and Security Council of the African Union, meeting on 8 September 2005, called on "the Mauritanian authorities and other stakeholders to continue to work together for the swift return to constitutional order, to pursue and to enhance dialogue and consultation between all the stakeholders and to consolidate democracy and the rule of law, within the context of the unity and sovereignty to Mauritania".
Article 9(2) of the ACP-EC Partnership agreement signed in Cotonou on 23 June 2000 and revised in Luxembourg on 25 June 2005 lays down the essential elements on which the partnership is based.
Therefore, in compliance with Article 96(1a) of the revised Cotonou Agreement, it is not necessary to work out the possibilities of political dialogue as set out in Article 8 of the same Agreement.
The Commission therefore proposes that the Council invite the Islamic Republic of Mauritania to hold consultations under Articles 9 and 96 of the revised Cotonou Agreement in accordance with the attached draft letter.
We are, therefore, pleased, on behalf of the Community and of the Member States of the European Union, to invite your country to hold consultations under Article 96 of the revised Cotonou Agreement, with a view to carrying out an in-depth analysis of the situation and, if appropriate, of the corrective measures to be taken.
