A common vision of development 6 1.1.
The scope of development policy 6 1.2.
The values underpinning the EU 6 1.3.
Poverty reduction: an objective embedded in the international agenda 6 1.4.
Other EU objectives in the area of development 7 1.5.
The links between development and security 8 1.5.2. ...
Shared principles 9 2.1.
Supporting performance 9 2.2.
In-depth political dialogue 10 2.4.
A commitment to fragile states 10 3.
Actions based on a common thematic framework 10 4.
An operational translation of the common strategy 11 4.1.
Increasing financial resources 12 4.2.
Strengthening aid effectiveness 12 4.2.1.
Acting together for greater coordination, harmonisation and alignment 12 4.2.2.
Increasing the quality of aid, including via innovative and flexible mechanisms 13 4.3.
Ensuring policy coherence for development 13 Part two: Guidelines for implementation of development policy by the Community 14 ANNEX - Part two: Guidelines for implementation of development policy by the Community 15 1.
The particular role of the Commission 15 2.
A differentiated approach depending on contexts and needs 15 2.1.
Transparent criteria for resource allocation 16 3.
Priorities chosen in consultation with partner countries 17 3.1.
The principle of concentration while maintaining flexibility 17 3.2.
The Community’s contribution to implementation of the common thematic framework 17 3.3.
The EU is also the most open trading partner for the least advanced countries and other low-income countries. 5.
To this end, the “European Consensus” sets out, for the first time in fifty years of cooperation, the framework of common principles under which the EU and its twenty-five Member States will implement their development policies in a spirit of complementarity.
Poverty reduction: an objective embedded in the international agenda The international development agenda is summarised in the September 2000 Millennium Declaration which focuses on social and human development, human rights, equality between men and women, the close relationship between development and the environment and the links between trade and development and sets out a framework of action to which the EU is fully committed.
The principles of partnership and ownership of development cooperation strategies and programmes by the partner countries and alignment on their strategies and procedures constitute the basis of EU policies vis-à-vis developing countries.
It encourages in particular the emergence of economic and social players such as trade unions, employers’ organisations and the private sector as development partners while continuing to support civil society organisations which specialise in development.
A common thematic framework for EU and Member States’ development policies will make it possible to coordinate the economic, social, environmental and political aspects of the poverty reduction objective and ensure its multisectoral character.
Identification of these themes will also facilitate greater coherence between EU development policy and other internal and external policies.
The aims of this plan over the coming years include: (i) better division of labour at the level of countries and regions, for greater complementarity in particular via the establishment of a common EU programming framework, (ii) the development of an EU roadmap in each country, (iii) the drawing up of a common financial agreement format encouraging the harmonisation of procedures with the partner countries, (iv) ensuring a minimum EU presence (Community or Member State) in fragile countries, particularly countries in crisis, (v) more joint actions and more intensive use of cofinancing making it possible to launch joint operations with and between Member States, and to capitalise on new Member States’ experience and facilitate the gradual emergence of these countries as new donors.
Ensuring policy coherence for development The EU has made commitments as regards policy coherence for development.
As regards implementation, progress must be made at three levels: (1) at Member State level, by the reinforcement of procedures and instruments relating to policy coherence, based on best practices developed by certain Member States; (2) at Council level, by the strengthening of genuine integration of development issues into the work of the Council’s sectoral groups; (3) at Commission level, including by the reinforcement of impact analyses from a development perspective. * * * PART TWO GUIDELINES FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY BY THE COMMUNITY The second part of the Statement set out in the annex provides guidelines for the implementation of development policy at Community level.
The aim is to clarify the Community’s role and to identify priorities which will be reflected in effective and coherent development cooperation programmes at the level of countries and regions.
Consequently, the EC’s policies, including its development policy, have to take account of wider strategic issues in order to fully reflect the range of its objectives.
The Community’s contribution to implementation of the common thematic framework On the basis of the common thematic framework for the EU and of a joint analysis of partner countries’ needs and performance, the Commission will, in its programming dialogues with them, bear in mind the concepts of differentiation and complementarity and its own capacity in order to identify where Community cooperation should be targeted.
Budget support will be considered, where appropriate, as a particularly useful aid modality in a strategy focusing on improving governance, by giving the Community an important role in improving public financial management for the whole budget – which is essential for tackling inefficiency and corruption, and for improvement in the impact which public spending as a whole has on poverty.
The Community will continue to be a key player, alongside the Bretton Woods Institutions in supporting economic and institutional reform, including Poverty Reduction Strategies, by engaging in dialogue with countries on the content of reforms, and providing financial assistance to governments engaged in these programmes.
Finally, the Community will maintain its active involvement in debt issues, by implementing its commitments and by participating in the international debate on debt. - Trade and regional integration Trade is a key source of economic growth.
Barriers are often highest between developing countries themselves.
The EC priorities in education are quality primary education and vocational training.
To ensure that developing countries benefit from technological development, the Community will increase its support for global agricultural research. - The environment and sustainable management of natural resources The Community will support the efforts undertaken by its partner countries (Governments and civil society) and help increase their capacity to incorporate environmental considerations into development, including implementation of multilateral environmental agreements[12].
The Community will step up its assistance to support partner countries' and regional organizations' efforts to strengthen early warning systems and governance/institutional capacity building, to enable them to engage effectively in a prevention approach.
Project-based aid will be useful in difficult situations or situations in which budget support is not well placed, as well as in support of civil society.
However, the European Investment Bank is playing an increasingly important role in the implementation of Community aid, through investments in private and public enterprises in developing countries.
Millennium Declaration and Millennium Development Goals (2000), Monterrey (2002), Johannesburg (2002), New York (September 2005). [2] Examples of multilateralism in action in these four fields: the decisive role played by the EU in setting up the International Court of Justice; the ratification of the Kyoto protocol for the environment; the drawing up of the Doha Trade and Development Agenda, the Beijing Action Platform for gender equality; the Brussels conference on least advanced countries and the development of the Monterrey consensus on development financing. [3] The EU also contributes 55% of overall contributions to the IDA 14. [4] Currently 151 countries (including the territories of the DAC list) representing a total of some five billion people. [5] Difficult partnerships are defined on the basis of one of the following: lack of commitment by the authorities to the objective of poverty reduction; weak governance; corruption and/or political repression; institutions unable to ensure their citizens’ security or the conditions necessary to live in peace and freedom. [6] This concept covers difficult partnerships and crisis/post-crisis situations. [7] Extreme poverty is defined by an income level of less than 1 dollar per day. [8] Rome Declaration of February 2003 and Paris Declaration of March 2005. [9] GAER Council conclusions of 22-23.11.2004; 14724/04, Annex 2, report of the Working Party on harmonisation entitled “Advancing coordination, harmonisation and alignment: The contribution of the EU”. [10] Trade, the environment, climate change, security, agriculture, fisheries, the social dimension of globalisation/employment and decent work, migrations, research and innovation, the information society, transport, energy. [11] The Commission proposal to the Council and the Parliament is based on three geographic regulations : for Neighbourhood Policy, Development and Economic Cooperation and Pre-accession to the EU, on one hand, and three emergency instruments: for Humanitarian assistance, Stability and Macro-financial assistance, on the other hand. [12] Climate, biodiversity, desertification, waste and chemicals [13] United Nations Convention on Biological Diversity. [14] United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification. [15] Strategic environmental assessments and gender-equality impact assessments will be carried out on a systematic basis, including in relation to budget (“greening the budget”) and sectoral aid.
