Proposal for a Council Regulation concerning restrictive measures against the Democratic People%rsquo%s Republic of Korea /* COM/2006/0710 final */ [pic] | COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES | Brussels, 15.11.2006 COM(2006)710 final Proposal for a COUNCIL REGULATION concerning restrictive measures against the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (presented by the Commission) EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM 1.
In order to implement UN Security Council Resolution 1718 (2006), the Council is preparing Common Position 2006/…/CFSP, which provides for action by the Community in order to implement certain restrictive measures. 3.
The Commission proposes, therefore, to implement all restrictive measures set out in UN Security Council Resolution 1718 (2006), with the exception of the restrictions on admission, by means of a new Council Regulation.
Paragraph 3 shall not apply to road transport services provided within the territory of North Korea.
Article 3 It shall be prohibited: (a) to provide, directly or indirectly, technical assistance related to sensitive goods and technology listed in Annex I, and to the provision, manufacture, maintenance and use of goods listed in Annex I to any natural or legal person, entity or body in, or for use in, North Korea, or to any diplomatic mission of North Korea wherever located; (b) to provide, directly or indirectly, financing or financial assistance related to sensitive goods and technology listed in Annex I, including in particular grants, loans and export credit insurance, for any sale, supply, transfer or export of such items, or for any provision of related technical assistance to any natural or legal person, entity or body in, or for use in, North Korea, and to any diplomatic mission of North Korea wherever located; (c) to participate, knowingly and intentionally, in activities, the object or effect of which is to circumvent the prohibitions referred to in points (a) or (b).
Annex IV shall include the persons, entities and bodies designated by the Sanctions Committee or the UN Security Council as (a) being engaged in or providing support for North Korea’s nuclear-related, other weapons of mass destruction-related and ballistic missiles-related programmes, or (b) acting on behalf or at the direction of such persons, entities or bodies. 2.
No funds or economic resources shall be made available, directly or indirectly, to or for the benefit of the natural or legal persons, entities or bodies listed in Annex IV. 3.
The relevant competent authority shall inform the competent authorities of the other Member States and the Commission of any authorisation granted under paragraphs 1 and 2.
Article 11 The freezing of funds and economic resources or the refusal to make funds or economic resources available, carried out in good faith on the basis that such action is in accordance with this Regulation, shall not give rise to liability of any kind on the part of the natural or legal person or entity or body implementing it, or its directors or employees, unless it is proved that the funds and economic resources were frozen as a result of negligence.
Article 12 The Commission and Member States shall immediately inform each other of the measures taken under this Regulation and shall supply each other with any other relevant information at their disposal in connection with this Regulation, in particular information in respect of violations and enforcement problems and judgments handed down by national courts.
Article 13 The Commission shall be empowered to: (a) amend Annex I on the basis of determinations made by either the Sanctions Committee or the United Nations Security Council and, where appropriate, add the reference numbers taken from the Combined Nomenclature as set out in Annex I to Council Regulation (EEC) No 2658/87; (b) amend Annex II on the basis of information supplied by Member States; (c) amend Annex III in order to refine or adapt the list of goods included therein, taking any definition or guidelines that may be promulgated by the Sanctions Committee and the lists produced by other jurisdictions into account, or to add the reference numbers taken from the Combined Nomenclature as set out in Annex I to Council Regulation (EEC) No 2658/87, if necessary or appropriate; and (d) amend Annex IV on the basis of determinations made by either the Sanctions Committee or the United Nations Security Council.
Article 15 This Regulation shall apply: (a) within the territory of the Community, including its airspace; (b) on board of any aircraft or any vessel under the jurisdiction of a Member State; (c) to any person inside or outside the territory of the Community who is a national of a Member State; (d) to any legal person, entity or body which is incorporated or constituted under the law of a Member State; (e) to any legal person, entity or body in respect of any business done in whole or in part within the Community.
Article 16 This Regulation shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union .
Done at Brussels, For the Council The President ANNEX I Goods and technology referred to in Article 2 A.
Technology (to be completed in due course) ANNEX II List of competent authorities referred to in Articles 4, 7, 8 and 10 (to be completed by Member States) BELGIUM CZECH REPUBLIC DENMARK GERMANY ESTONIA GREECE SPAIN FRANCE IRELAND ITALY CYPRUS LATVIA LITHUANIA LUXEMBOURG HUNGARY MALTA NETHERLANDS AUSTRIA POLAND PORTUGAL SLOVENIA SLOVAKIA FINLAND SWEDEN UNITED KINGDOM Address for notifications to the European Commission: European Commission DG External Relations Directorate A.
Regulation as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 394/2006 (OJ L 74, 13.3.2006, p. 1). [3] OJ L 256, 7.9.1987, p. 1.
Regulation as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 996/2006 (OJ L 179, 1.7.2006, p. 26).
