Report from the Commission to the Council and the European Parliament based on Article 10 of the Council Framework Decision of 19 July 2002 on combating trafficking in human beings {SEC(2006) 525} /* COM/2006/0187 final */ [pic] | COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES | Brussels, 02.05.2006 COM(2006) 187 final REPORT FROM THE COMMISSION TO THE COUNCIL AND THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT Based on Article 10 of the Council Framework Decision of 19 July 2002 on combating trafficking in human beings {SEC(2006) 525} TABLE OF CONTENTS 1.
Evaluation criteria 4 2.3.
On the basis of this information, and a written report by the Commission, the Council should, by the 1 August 2005, have assessed the extent to which Member States have taken the necessary measures to comply with the Framework Decision.
The Commission reminded Member States of their obligation to provide the relevant information by means of a letter sent on 29 July 2004.
Italy, the Netherlands and Slovenia replied before May 2005, Denmark on 13 July 2005 and Belgium provided the final reply on 29 September 2005.
Although Poland provided the information on 4 January 2006, the Report contains only limited information on Polish implementation of the Framework Decision.
A Commission staff working paper attached to this Report contains a detailed analysis of the national measures taken by Member States in order to comply with the Framework Decision. 2.
Evaluation criteria In order to be able to evaluate on an objective basis whether a framework decision has been fully implemented by a Member State, some general criteria have been developed with respect to Directives which should be applied mutatis mutandis to Framework Decisions: 1.
This, in turn, will enable the Council to assess the extent to which Member States have taken the necessary measures in order to comply with the Framework Decision.
Since the 1997 adoption of a joint action by the Council concerning measures to combat trafficking in human beings and the sexual exploitation of children[?], the number of initiatives has increased considerably at both national and regional levels.
Article 2 According to the information provided to the Commission, most Member States have simply referred to the pre-existing general rules on complicity and inchoate offences under their respective criminal systems.
In most cases Member States have provided for severe maximum penalties for offences pertaining to human trafficking; in particular for offences committed in aggravating circumstances, with life imprisonment being the punishment in some cases.
Article 4 and 5 The Framework Decision introduces the concept of liability of legal persons in parallel with that of natural persons.
Article 6 All Member States will presumably be able to comply with this Article as regards the application of the territoriality principle as set out in Article 6(1)(a).
The general situation with regard to Article 6(1)(c) of the Council Framework Decision concerning jurisdiction over offences committed for the benefit of a legal person established in the territory of the Member State, is less clear.
Article 7 Article 7 regulates two different issues; firstly, it provides that trafficking offences shall not be dependent upon a report or accusation made by the victim.
Article 8 The Commission has not received specific information on transposition in Gibraltar. 4.
In general, there was no need for Member States to amend their domestic legislation in order to comply with Article 6 of the Council Framework Decision, as pre-existing measures were already in place.
Finally, it should be noted that once a report has been submitted on the Council Framework Decision on combating sexual exploitation and child pornography of 22 December 2003[?], for which the implementation deadline was 20 January 2006, the Commission will be able to present a fuller picture on the implementation of human trafficking relevant legislation in the Member States.
The CRC contains specific provisions (Articles 32, 33, 34, 35, 36) dealing with exploitation, abuse and trafficking.
