Diplomatic and consular protection can concern individuals or groups of people.
These areas of intervention can be supplemented by a reinforcement of the protection for citizens provided for under Article 20 EC.
Article 20 EC assumes particular importance because of the sharp increase in the number of trips made by EU nationals to third countries[6], and the rise in the number of nationals who establish their residence in these countries.
In Thailand, for example, 17 Member States are represented whereas only 6 are represented in Sri Lanka and 3 in Brunei.
Lastly, in its Communication to the European Council of 10 May 2006 "A citizens’ agenda”[9], the Commission highlighted the Union’s need to foster cooperation on consular affairs in order to protect EU citizens in third countries more fully and also to enable every European citizen to be aware of and enjoy full access to their existing rights.
Using passports as a means of information The Barnier report suggested that all passports should have Article 20 EC printed in them.
In its report of 15 June 2006 to the European Council[11], the Council Presidency asked the Member States to print Article 20 EC in passports.
Suggested action: - Adopt a Commission Recommendation calling on the Member States to print Article 20 EC in passports.
It is transmitted via an Early Warning and Response System - EWRS.
Suggested action: - Coordinated presentation of advice to travellers.
Provisions on the protection of EU citizens should therefore be included in bilateral agreements with third countries with a view to ensuring this protection, as provided for by Article 20 EC.
Suggested action: - Extend consular protection to Union citizens’ family members who are third country nationals, by appropriate means (amend Decision 95/553/EC or Commission proposal on the basis of Article 22 EC).
Identifying and repatriating remains The aftermath of the tsunami at the end of 2004 revealed the scale of the problem of identifying and repatriating remains.
Some Member States have acceded to the Council of Europe Convention of 26 October 1973 on the transfer of corpses[17], which is designed to simplify administrative formalities for repatriating remains.
Suggested action: - Simplify procedures for financial advances.
One way of dealing with this sort of situation would be to set up common offices, as proposed in the Barnier Report and taken up in the abovementioned Communication, of 28 June 2006 on implementing the Hague Programme[18].
The functions performed by these common offices could be based on a system of deputising between Member States, which would enable the following proposals to be put into practice: - Depending on the countries and the presence of Member State representations, these offices could be housed in various representations or national embassies or in just one, or they could share the Commission delegation under arrangements still to be defined.
The programme of staff exchanges between the Member States’ national diplomatic services, the Commission and the Council Secretariat could be used on this occasion, in the spirit of the Commission Communication to the European Council of 8 June 2006 on Europe in the world[20]. - To perform these functions, the Member States could draw up and make available to citizens a set of rules establishing a system for deputising and sharing the work done by the common office in each third country. - To facilitate the work of the common offices, information campaigns could be organised, inviting citizens to register on a voluntary basis, which would then make possible rescue operations easier. - Significant steps have been taken under the common visa policy, through Council decisions amending the Common Consular Instructions (CCI).
Suggested actions: - Initially set up “common offices” in the Caribbean, the Balkans, the Indian Ocean and West Africa. - Publish rules establishing a system of deputising between Member States in third countries. - Organise information campaigns encouraging citizens to register at the common office. - In the long term, common offices could perform consular functions, such as issuing visas or legalising documents.
THE CONSENT OF THE THIRD-COUNTRY AUTHORITIES Implementation of Article 20 EC requires the consent of the third countries.
Under Article 20 EC Member States must start the international negotiations required to this end.
This dialogue will end with a hearing open to all interested parties. [1] Decision of the representatives of the Governments of the Member States meeting within the Council of 19 December 1995 regarding protection for citizens of the European Union by diplomatic and consular representations (OJ L 314, 28.12.1995 p. 73). [2] Council of the European Union document 10109/06 of 2.6.2006. [3] The guidelines require each Member State to prepare emergency plans, which all Member States should be familiar with.
