Notice of initiation of an anti-dumping proceeding concerning imports of certain tungsten electrodes originating in the People's Republic of China Notice of initiation of an anti-dumping proceeding concerning imports of certain tungsten electrodes originating in the People's Republic of China (2005/C 322/07) The Commission has received a complaint pursuant to Article 5 of Council Regulation (EC) No 384/96 on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the European Community ("the basic Regulation") [1], as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 461/2004 [2], alleging that imports of certain tungsten electrodes, originating in the People's Republic of China ("the country concerned"), are being dumped and are thereby causing material injury to the Community industry. 1.
Complaint The complaint was lodged on 4 November 2005 by Eurometaux ("the complainant") on behalf of producers representing a major proportion, in this case more than 25 %, of the total Community production of certain tungsten electrodes. 2.
Procedure Having determined, after consulting the Advisory Committee, that the complaint has been lodged by or on behalf of the Community industry and that there is sufficient evidence to justify the initiation of a proceeding, the Commission hereby initiates an investigation pursuant to Article 5 of the basic Regulation. 5.1.
The consequences of non-cooperation are set out in point 8 below.
If sufficient cooperation is not forthcoming, the Commission may base its findings, in accordance with Articles 17(4) and 18 of the basic Regulation, on the facts available.
It should be noted that any information submitted pursuant to Article 21 will only be taken into account if supported by factual evidence at the time of submission. 6.
Commission address for correspondence: European Commission Directorate General for Trade Directorate B Office: J-79 5/16 B-1049 Brussels Fax (32-2) 295 65 05. 8.
Non-cooperation In cases in which any interested party refuses access to or does not provide the necessary information within the time limits, or significantly impedes the investigation, provisional or final findings, affirmative or negative, may be made in accordance with Article 18 of the basic Regulation, on the basis of the facts available.
If an interested party does not cooperate or cooperates only partially and findings are therefore based on facts available in accordance with Article 18 of the basic Regulation, the result may be less favourable to that party than if it had cooperated. 9.
Schedule of the investigation The investigation will be concluded, according to Article 6(9) of the basic Regulation within 15 months of the date of the publication of this notice in the Official Journal of the European Union.
It is a confidential document pursuant to Article 19 of the basic Regulation and Article 6 of the WTO Agreement on Implementation of Article VI of the GATT 1994 (Anti-dumping Agreement). --------------------------------------------------
