The Commission is currently working on a Decision on lifting prohibitions and laying down conditions applicable for trade of certain animal products in the framework of the Regulation (EC) No 866/2004, which shall determine conditions for trade in honey and fish across the Green Line. 2.
According to the data submitted by the authorities of the Republic of Cyprus the number of illegal immigrants detained after crossing the Green Line increased from 725 in 2002 and reached the level of 3796 in 2003, 5287 in 2004 and 4748 within nine months of 2005.
According to the same source, the majority of illegal immigrants apply later for asylum (the number of asylum seekers stepped up from 950 in 2002 over 4410 in 2003 up to 9860 in 2004).
The Commission is of the opinion that the surveillance of the line conducted by the Republic of Cyprus pursuant to Article 3 of the Regulation needs further strengthening.
Value of trade Pursuant to Article 8 of the Commission Regulation (EC) 1480/2004 [5] the Turkish Cypriot Chamber of Commerce reported on a monthly basis on the type, volume and value of goods for which it issued accompanying documents.
On 31 March 2006 a consignment of 22 tons of citrus fruits which were to be shipped after crossing the Green Line through the port of Limassol (situated in the government-controlled areas) to an EU Member State was to cross the line.
However on 29 March the supplier cancelled the transaction after protests of dockers and truck drivers were organised in Famagusta port and at the check point where the consignment should have been cleared.
De lege ferenda this issue should be taken up in a future amendment to the Green Line Regulation. 3.6.
The proposals included a request to apply a reverse charge mechanism for supplies made by taxable persons established in the areas [13] to taxable persons in the government-controlled areas, a request to apply simplified procedures for the collection of tax on goods supplied by taxable persons established in the areas when these are supplied in the government-controlled areas to non-taxable persons, a request to allow for supplies made to the areas to be treated as export transactions (amending Article 5 of the Green Line Regulation) and the request to allow for simplified procedures when goods are crossing the line with a view to be transferred to other Member States.
One example can be given for illustration: The Republic of Cyprus requested that supplies made to the areas be treated as export transactions (amending Article 5 of the Green Line Regulation).
Taking into consideration the registered trends concerning the number of persons crossing the line illegally the Commission is of the opinion that the surveillance conducted by the Republic of Cyprus pursuant to Article 3 of the Regulation needs further improvement.
However in August 2006 some lorry loads of potatoes destined for consumption on the island successfully crossed the line without major obstacles. [13] For the purposes of this part of the Report the term “areas” shall mean those areas of the Republic of Cyprus in which the Government of the Republic of Cyprus does not exercise effective control. --------------------------------------------------
