Common Position (EC) No 2/2006 of 8 December 2005 adopted by the Council, acting in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 251 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, with a view to adopting a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the addition of vitamins and minerals and of certain other substances to foods Common Position (EC) No 2/2006 adopted by the Council on 8 December 2005 with a view to adopting Regulation (EC) No …/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council of … on the addition of vitamins and minerals and of certain other substances to foods (2006/C 80 E/02) THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular Article 95 thereof, Having regard to the proposal from the Commission, Having regard to the opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee [1], Acting in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 251 of the Treaty [2], Whereas: (1) There is a wide range of nutrients and other ingredients that might be used in food manufacturing, including, but not limited to, vitamins, minerals including trace elements, amino acids, essential fatty acids, fibre, various plants and herbal extracts.
In the absence of specific Community rules regarding prohibition or restriction of use of substances or ingredients containing substances other than vitamins or minerals under this Regulation or under other specific Community provisions, relevant national rules may apply without prejudice to the provisions of the Treaty. (3) Some Member States require the mandatory addition of some vitamins and minerals to certain ordinary foods, for reasons dictated by public health considerations.
Meanwhile, it would be useful for information on such national measures to be compiled. (4) Vitamins and minerals may be added to foods voluntarily by food manufacturers or must be added as nutritional substances as provided for by specific Community legislation.
This Regulation should apply without prejudice to the specific Community rules concerning the addition to or use of vitamins and minerals to specific products or groups of products or their addition for purposes other than those covered by this Regulation. (5) Given that detailed rules on food supplements containing vitamins and minerals have been adopted by Directive 2002/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 10 June 2002 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to food supplements [3], provisions of this Regulation regarding vitamins and minerals should not apply to food supplements. (6) Vitamins and minerals are added to foods by manufacturers for a number of purposes including to restore their content where this has been reduced during manufacturing, storage or handling procedures or to provide a similar nutritional value to foods for which they are intended as alternatives. (7) An adequate and varied diet can, under normal circumstances, provide all necessary nutrients for normal development and maintenance of a healthy life in quantities such as those established and recommended by generally acceptable scientific data.
This in turn has led to changes in the energy and nutrient requirements of various groups of the population and to intakes of certain vitamins and minerals for these groups that would be below those recommended in different Member States.
Such substances that have been approved by the Scientific Committee on Food in an opinion expressed on 12 May 1999, on the basis of the above criteria of safety and bio-availability, and can be used in the manufacture of foods intended for infants and young children, other foods for particular nutritional uses or food supplements should appear in this positive list.
Such revisions would be implementing measures of a technical nature and their adoption should be entrusted to the Commission in order to simplify and expedite the procedure. (12) Foods to which vitamins and minerals are added are, in most cases, promoted by manufacturers and may be perceived by consumers as products having a nutritional, physiological or other health advantage over similar or other products without such nutrients added.
Where it is necessary, for certain vitamins and minerals, to establish restrictions regarding the foods to which they can be added, priority should be given to the purposes of restoring their content where this has been reduced during manufacturing, storage or handling procedures and of providing a similar nutritional value to foods for which those foods are intended as alternatives. (16) Vitamins and minerals added to foods should result in a minimum amount being present in the food.
The same principle underlies the requirement that these nutrients should be present in a significant amount in the food in order to be allowed to be declared in nutrition labelling.
Therefore it would be appropriate that the minimum amounts of vitamins and minerals in foods to which vitamins and minerals have been added should be the same as those significant amounts that should be present for those nutrients to be declared in nutrition labelling unless otherwise provided for by appropriate derogations. (17) The adoption of maximum levels and any conditions of use based on the application of the principles and criteria stipulated in this Regulation and the adoption of minimum levels would be implementing measures of a technical nature and their adoption should be entrusted to the Commission in order to simplify and expedite the procedure. (18) General labelling provisions and definitions are contained in Directive 2000/13/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 March 2000 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs [4].
Therefore, by derogation from Article 2 of Council Directive 90/496/EEC of 24 September 1990 on nutrition labelling for foodstuffs [6], nutrition labelling should be compulsory. (20) A normal and varied diet contains many ingredients, which in turn contain many substances.
Article 2 Definitions For the purposes of this Regulation, 'Authority' means the European Food Safety Authority established by Regulation (EC) No 178/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 January 2002 laying down the general principles and requirements of food law, establishing the European Food Safety Authority and laying down procedures in matters of food safety [8].
CHAPTER II ADDITION OF VITAMINS AND MINERALS Article 3 Requirements for the addition of vitamins and minerals 1.
Modifications to the lists referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 14(2), taking account of the opinion of the Authority.
Additional foods or categories of foods to which vitamins and minerals may not be added may be determined in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 14(2) in the light of scientific evidence and taking into account their nutritional value.
Article 5 Purity criteria 1.
The purity criteria for vitamin formulations and mineral substances listed in Annex II shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 14(2), except where they apply pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Article. 2.
Purity criteria for vitamin formulations and mineral substances listed in Annex II, specified by Community legislation for their use in the manufacture of foodstuffs for purposes other than those covered by this Regulation, shall apply. 3.
When a vitamin or a mineral is added to foods, the total amount of the vitamin or mineral present, for whatever purpose, in the food as sold shall not exceed maximum amounts that shall be set in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 14(2).
When the maximum amounts referred to in paragraph 1 and the conditions referred to in paragraph 2 are set, due account shall also be taken of reference intakes of vitamins and minerals for the population. 5.
When the maximum amounts referred to in paragraph 1 and the conditions referred to in paragraph 2 are set for vitamins and minerals whose reference intakes for the population are close to the upper safe levels, the following shall also be taken into account, as necessary: (a) the contribution of individual products to the overall diet of the population in general or of subgroups of the population; (b) the nutrient profile of the product established as provided for by Regulation (EC) No .../2006 [10]. 6.
Article 7 Labelling, presentation and advertising 1.
The labelling of products to which vitamins and minerals have been added may bear a statement indicating such addition under the conditions laid down in Regulation (EC) No …/2006 [10]. 5.
CHAPTER III ADDITION OF CERTAIN OTHER SUBSTANCES Article 8 Substances prohibited, restricted or under Community scrutiny 1.
In particular: (a) if a harmful effect on health has been identified, the substance and/or the ingredient containing the substance shall: (i) be placed in Annex III, part A, and its addition to foods or its use in the manufacture of foods shall be prohibited; or (ii) be placed in Annex III, part B, and its addition to foods or its use in the manufacture of foods shall only be allowed under the conditions specified therein; (b) if the possibility of harmful effects on health is identified but scientific uncertainty persists, the substance shall be placed in Annex III, part C. 3.
Community provisions applicable to specified foods may provide for restrictions or prohibitions on the use of certain substances in addition to those laid down in this Regulation. 4.
Within four years from the date a substance has been listed in Annex III, part C, a decision shall be taken, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 14(2) and taking into account the opinion of the Authority on any files submitted for evaluation as mentioned in paragraph 4 of this Article, to generally allow the use of a substance listed in Annex III, part C, or to list it in Annex III, part A or B, as appropriate. 6.
The Commission shall establish, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 14(2), implementing rules for the application of this Article, including rules concerning the submission referred to in paragraph 4 of this Article.
CHAPTER IV GENERAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS Article 9 Community Register 1.
Article 11 National provisions 1.
By … [11], Member States shall inform the Commission of existing national provisions on the mandatory addition of vitamins and minerals and of products covered by the derogation provided for in Article 4(b). 2.
If a Member State, in the absence of Community provisions, considers it necessary to adopt new legislation: (a) on the mandatory addition of vitamins and minerals to specified foods or categories of foods; or (b) on the prohibition or restriction on the use of certain other substances in the manufacture of specified foods, it shall notify the Commission in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 12.
Article 12 Notification procedure 1.
The Commission shall consult the Committee referred to in Article 14, if it considers such consultation to be useful or if a Member State so requests, and shall give an opinion on the envisaged measures. 3.
The Commission may require certain amendments to be made to the envisaged measures.
Article 13 Safeguard measures 1.
The Commission may initiate this procedure on its own initiative. 3.
The Member State referred to in paragraph 1 may maintain the suspension or restriction until the decision referred to in paragraph 2 has been notified to it.
Article 15 Monitoring To facilitate efficient monitoring of foods to which vitamins and minerals have been added, and of foods containing substances listed in Annex III, parts B and C, Member States may require the manufacturer or the person placing such foods on the market in their territory to notify the competent authority of that placing on the market by providing a model of the label used for the product.
Article 16 Evaluation By … [12], the Commission shall submit to the European Parliament and the Council a report on the effects of implementing this Regulation, in particular concerning the evolution of the market in foods to which vitamins and minerals have been added, their consumption, nutrient intakes for the population and changes in dietary habits, the addition of certain other substances, accompanied by any proposals for amendment to this Regulation which the Commission deems necessary.
Article 17 Transitional measures 1.
By way of derogation from Article 3(1) and until … [14], Member States may allow in their territory the use of vitamins and minerals not listed in Annex I, or in forms not listed in Annex II, provided that: (a) the substance in question is used for addition to foods marketed in the Community on … [15]; and (b) the Authority has not given an unfavourable opinion in respect of the use of that substance, or its use in that form, in the manufacture of food, on the basis of a dossier supporting use of the substance in question to be submitted to the Commission by the Member State not later than … [16]. 2.
Member States may, in compliance with the rules of the Treaty, continue to apply existing national provisions on maximum and minimum amounts of vitamins and minerals listed in Annex I added to foods and on the conditions applicable to this addition until the adoption of corresponding Community measures in accordance with Article 6 or under other specific Community provisions.
Article 18 Entry into force This Regulation shall enter into force on the 20th day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
It shall apply from … [17].
Foods placed on the market or labelled prior to … [17] which do not comply with this Regulation may be marketed until … [18].
For the European Parliament The President For the Council The President [1] OJ C 112, 30.4.2004, p. 44. [2] Opinion of the European Parliament of 26 May 2005, Council Common Position of 8 December 2005 and position of the European Parliament of ..... (not yet published in the Official Journal). [3] OJ L 183, 12.7.2002, p. 51. [4] OJ L 109, 6.5.2000, p. 29.
Directive as last amended by Directive 2003/89/EC (OJ L 308, 25.11.2003, p. 15). [5] Common position (EC) No 3/2006 (page … of this Official Journal). [6] OJ L 276, 6.10.1990, p. 40.
Directive as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 1882/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 284, 31.10.2003, p. 1). [7] OJ L 184, 17.7.1999, p. 23. [8] OJ L 31, 1.2.2002, p. 1.
Regulation as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 1642/2003 (OJ L 245, 29.9.2003, p. 4). [9] OJ L 179, 14.7.1999, p. 1.
Regulation as last amended by Commission Regulation (EC) No 1795/2003 (OJ L 262, 14.10.2003, p. 13). [10] Regulation on nutrition and health claims from recital 18. [11] Six months from the entry into force of this Regulation. [12] The first day of the sixth months following the date of entry into force of this Regulation + six years. [13] The first day of the sixth months following the date of entry into force of this Regulation + five years. [14] Seven years from the date of entry into force of this Regulation. [15] The date of entry into force of this Regulation. [16] Three years from the date of entry into force of this Regulation. [17] The first day of the sixth months following the date of entry into force of this Regulation. [18] The last day of the 29th month following the date of entry into force of this Regulation. -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX I VITAMINS AND MINERALS WHICH MAY BE ADDED TO FOODS 1.
Vitamins Vitamin A Vitamin D Vitamin E Vitamin K Vitamin B1 Vitamin B2 Niacin Pantothenic acid Vitamin B6 Folic acid Vitamin B12 Biotin Vitamin C 2.
The European Parliament has adopted its opinion at first reading on 26 May 2005 [1].
The European Economic and Social Committee gave its opinion on 31 March 2004 [2]. 3.
On 8 December 2005, the Council adopted its Common Position in accordance with Article 251 of the Treaty.
European Parliament amendments In its Plenary vote on 26 May 2005, the European Parliament adopted 46 amendments to the proposal (Amendment 8 is linguistic and does not affect the English version).
The Council: (a) introduced in the common position 20 amendments in full, in part or in principle, as follows: recitals Amendment 1 (to recital 10) and Amendment 2 (on recital 12): have been taken up in part, with the deletion of the last sentence of recital 8 and a modification in recital 10.
Amendment 4 (to recital 20a): taken up in principle and in part in recital 2 (second sentence) and in Article 11( 2).
Articles Amendment 13 (to Article 3(3)): taken up in part, as regards the opinion of the Authority, while the original reference to implementing rules has been deleted (given that there is no longer a reference to restoration, nutritional equivalence and substitute foods in Articles 2 and 3).
Amendment 16 (to Article 4(1) (new)): maintained in substance in Article 17(1)(b) and Article 9(2)(d).
Amendment 17 (to Article 4(2)): introduced in part in Article 17(2).
In this context, the Council also notes that the Commission has the intention to revise and update the reference values included in the Annex to Directive 90/496/EEC on nutrition labelling of foodstuffs.
Amendment 34 (to Article 10), Amendment 55 (on Article 10a (new)) and Amendment 35 (to Article 11): have been taken up in Article 8.
Amendment 38 (to Article 12(2)(fa) and (fb) (new)): the intent of the amendment was partly taken into consideration in Article 9(2)(d)).
Amendment 39 (to Article 13): the concern underlying the Amendment was partly taken up in Article 11(2)(b) (as regards the introduction of new provisions).
Amendment 41 (to Article 16(1)): the principle is taken into account in Article 3(3), while the Council does not consider that the Authority should be involved automatically whenever the Committee procedure is invoked.
With respect to Amendments 3, 6, 9, 10, 14, 15, 19, 20, 21, 23, 24, 26, 27, 29, 30, 32, 36, 37,40 and 43, the Council followed the position expressed by the Commission.
As regards Amendments 21, 26 and 30, however, the Council notes the intention of the Commission to: - consider, in the framework of its reflection on the revision of Directive 90/496/EEC on nutrition labelling of foodstuffs, the following elements in relation to vitamins and minerals: - revising/updating reference values included in the Annex to Directive 90/496/EEC and the levels that may be considered as significant amounts, - establishing tolerance levels for acceptable variation from the declared value of added vitamins and minerals on the nutrition label, - reflect any modification to the compulsory elements of nutritional labelling that may be adapted in the future revision of nutrition labelling Directive, in Article 7(3) of the Regulation on the addition of vitamins and minerals and of certain other substances to foods, - present as soon as possible and in any case within two years following the adoption of the Regulation a proposal for the establishment of maximum/ minimum amounts of vitamins and minerals and any conditions for their addition to food as referred to in Article 6(2).
As regards Amendment 36, introducing a new Article 11a on labelling, presentation and advertising of other substances, it should be noted that labelling rules can be considered by the Commission in the context of Article 8(6), on the adoption of implementing rules to apply Article 8.
In relation to Amendments 11, 12, 22, 28,40 and 42, accepted in part by the Commission but not included in the common position: Amendment 11 (to Article 3(2), introductory part): it can be pointed out that the principle of the amendment, on the need for adding vitamins and minerals in a form that is bio-available to the human body, is already outlined in the first sentence of recital 11.
Amendment 12 (to Article 3a (new)): and Amendment 28 (to Article 8(2)) the substance of these amendments is maintained in Article 7 (2) as it is the labelling (including ingredient listing), presentation and advertising which could mislead or deceive the consumer.
Amendment 40 (to Article 14(3)) can be found, in part and implicitly, in Article 12(3) second indent, given that the consultation of the Committee becomes obligatory whenever the Commission's opinion on the envisaged measure is negative.
Amendment 42 (to Article 17): the Council considers that, for the monitoring tasks carried out by competent authorities, the obligation to notify the Commission of any placing on the market of food products containing vitamins and minerals would not be compatible with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. 3.
Other innovations introduced by the Council Other innovations introduced in the common position include: - the grouping of all the applicable transitional measures in a new Article 17, with the deletion of Article 4 of the original proposal, - a revision of Articles 6 (on conditions on the addition of vitamins and minerals) and 7 (on labelling, presentation and advertising) following the deletion of the definitions in Article 2, - a modification of Article 15 on monitoring, so that when a notification of placing on the market is required, information on the withdrawal of the product from the market can also be required, - a reference to implementation rules for the application of Article 16, - the deletion of sodium chloride from Annex II and with a corresponding modification of Rrecital 11 explaining this change.
CONCLUSION The Council considers that its common position, which incorporates the amendments mentioned in Sections III.2(a), takes good account of the opinion of the European Parliament in first reading and represents a balanced solution to ensure that the objectives of the Regulation will be achieved. [1] Doc. 9200/05. [2] OJ C 112, 30.4.2004, p. 44. --------------------------------------------------
