Against the background of global economic competition, Europe is developing its future strengths above all in a number of competitive regions referred to in this opinion as %quot%valleys%quot%; these valleys are inspired by the concept of Silicon Valley and the philosophy of the World Economic Forum.
These European %quot%valleys%quot%, which have been built on the foundations of old industries and industrial sectors, provide the future driving force for economic and social renewal. 3) Examples of such %quot%valleys%quot% are the following regions: Stockholm, Cambridge, Bavaria, Rhône-Alpes, south-east Netherlands, and emerging regions, such as Värmland, Riga and Saxony-Anhalt.
It is essential that, above all, measures to stimulate trans-sectoral developments, geared to new technology-product-marketing-combinations, be placed at the heart of the new European industrial policy. 4) In this opinion, the CoR puts forward a number of concrete proposals for bringing about a considerable increase in the effectiveness of EU instruments and promoting more intensive integration of these instruments.
In view of the CoR's own position, it calls for attention to be paid, in particular, to measures for managing structural change in industry, as well as parallel attention to the new simplification programme for legislation.
The European Nanoelectronics Initiative Advisory Council (ENIAC) and Artemis strategic agendas are, in this connection, of key importance to European and national investment in this field. 1.20 In addition to the need to pay ongoing attention to the competitiveness of particular sectors, it is, however, important to note that Europe's future prosperity will be increasingly dependent upon inter-sectoral activities.
Further recommendations made by the Committee of the Regions Europe in 2027 (policy for the future) 2.1 The European Commission's outline of work further fleshes out the Lisbon strategy and the Gothenborg objectives and is, in this respect, a consistently drafted document.
This cluster model is one of the key features of the new European industrial policy. 2.7 The promotion of %quot%cross-sectoral interaction%quot% is geared towards innovation and completely new product-market combinations in industry.
An average SME in the USA already spends more than seven times more on R and D than does its counterpart in the EU. 2.10 There is not a single enterprise which will in the near future be either willing or able to take on board all the administrative requirements of the EU in order to qualify for a grant of 15 %.
Brussels, 14 June 2006.
The President of the Committee of the Regions Michel Delebarre [1] The concept of large enterprises in this respect should also be given attention. --------------------------------------------------
