Communication from the Commission to the Council, the European Parliament and the Economic and Social Committee - Tackling the corporation tax obstacles of small and medium-sized enterprises in the Internal Market %ndash% outline of a possible Home State Taxation pilot scheme [%hellip%] {SEC(2005)1785} /* COM/2005/0702 final */ [pic] | COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES | Brussels, 23.12.2005 COM(2005)702 final COMMUNICATION FROM THE COMMISSION TO THE COUNCIL, THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL COMMITTEE Tackling the corporation tax obstacles of small and medium-sized enterprises in the Internal Market – outline of a possible Home State Taxation pilot scheme […] {SEC(2005)1785} TABLE OF CONTENTS 1.
Purpose of the Communication 3 1.2.
Basic approach and suitability for SMEs 8 3.2.
Conclusion and Outlook 11 ANNEX 13 Outline of a possible Home State Taxation pilot scheme for small and medium-sized enterprises 13 1.
In this context the conclusions of the Presidency of the European Council of 23 March 2005 repeatedly highlight the important role of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and call for broad policy actions in favour of SMEs[1] | This is true in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises. | The underlying problem is that while SMEs play a pre-eminent role in the economic development of the European Union, the participation of SMEs in the Internal Market is considerably lower than that of larger companies, not least for fiscal reasons.
Accordingly, appropriate action for fostering the cross-border expansion of SMEs is called for in the multiannual programme for enterprise and entrepreneurship, and in particular SMEs (2001-2005)[2] and in the Commission Action Plan: The European Agenda for Entrepreneurship[3].
Company tax obstacles in the Internal Market and their relevance for SMEs Companies face numerous and varied tax obstacles in the Internal Market … | Recent analysis and research by the Commission services[7] subsequently confirmed by independent research institutes[8], reveals that the cross-border economic activities of businesses in the EU are seriously hampered by many different company tax obstacles.
In a nutshell, these concern deficiencies in existing EU tax legislation and its implementation in some Member States, the general lack of cross-border loss-offset for subsidiaries, tax problems with cross-border restructuring operations, the application of double taxation treaties and transfer pricing issues.
The resulting higher or additional tax burden, (economic) double taxation and high compliance costs act as a disincentive to cross-border economic activity within the Internal Market. | … the relative importance of which is continuously increasing. | Given the progress in many other policy fields where measures of harmonisation or mutual recognition have been taken, the relative importance of these tax obstacles has increased in recent years and is now one of the biggest problems in the completion of the Internal Market and the fulfilment of its economic potential.
The Commission is therefore currently working on the implementation of a "two-track strategy" which contains both short-term measures that are targeted at resolving specific obstacles to cross-border economic activities in the Internal Market and longer-term comprehensive solutions.[9] In many areas this strategy has already resulted in tangible progress.
For instance, the replies by interested stakeholders to a "Questionnaire on corporate tax as a barrier to EU expansion of small and medium-sized enterprises" published by the Commission services in July 2004 revealed among other things that around one third of SMEs in the EU consider corporate taxation to be an important obstacle to cross-border expansion.[12] | … in particular as regards compliance costs … | Moreover, it was clearly established that there are also two additional areas which are of particular importance for SMEs.[13] First, SMEs have particular difficulties in meeting the compliance costs resulting from the need to deal with up to 25 different taxation systems.
Thus, because of the smaller business size, high compliance costs are particularly relevant for SMEs and clearly deter many such firms from cross-border expansion. | … and problems of cross-border loss-offset. | Second, among the other more specific tax obstacles to cross-border economic activity in the Internal Market, the cross-border offsetting of losses has been identified as the most important obstacle from the perspective of small and medium-sized businesses.
The combination of these two effects - the particular importance of cross-border obstacles for SMEs and relief for domestic tax problems - may even raise the bar in terms of starting cross-border business for SMEs. | 2.2.
The operational goal is to remove SME tax anomalies that are specific to cross-border economic activity so that such activity can be undertaken in the Internal Market in the same way, or at least in a broadly comparable way to national markets. | Counter-productive side-effects should be avoided. | The achievement of this objective is subject to several constraints.
The design of a possible pilot scheme must take this into account. | 3.
Each participating Member State would continue to tax its share of the profits of the group member’s business activities in that State at the corporate tax rate which it has itself defined.
The concept could therefore be usefully tested in a pilot scheme only for interested SMEs and Member States with a similar tax base.
Development of the idea so far 'Home State Taxation' is a fully developed concept that has been refined over the years. | This idea of the pilot scheme project has gradually taken shape over the last four years, starting with the publications on Home State Taxation by its authors Malcolm Gammie and Sven-Olof Lodin[22], and continuing with the Commission work on a new company taxation strategy, and the reactions to these initiatives.
This Communication completes this long-standing technical and political preparatory work. | Testing with SMEs is supported by the EP, ECOSOC … | The European Parliament supported the idea of Home State Taxation and invited the Commission to take this concept forward[25]; the European Economic and Social Committee advocates a pilot project on "Home State Taxation" as a solution for cross-border activities of SMEs which could be tested on a bilateral basis before being eventually widened to the whole of the EU following a positive evaluation[26]. | … and the SME Community. | The public consultation on the idea of a Home State Taxation pilot for small and medium-sized enterprises held by the Commission services in 2003 and a questionnaire distributed in 2004 showed support among EU small and medium-sized enterprises for the Home State Taxation approach and high interest for taking part in a possible pilot scheme.
There would thus be no reduction in tax in the longer term. | 4.
The basic concept and the fundamental objective of the Home State Taxation pilot scheme are very simple: to tackle the tax obstacles encountered by small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) when they operate in other EU Member States in addition to their own, by giving them the possibility to apply, in certain respects, the corporate tax rules of their home state, with which they are familiar.
However, the application of the scheme should in practice be easy and straightforward for the vast majority of participating SMEs. 3.
Each participating Member State continues to tax at its own corporate tax rate its share of the profits of the group member’s business activities in that State.
However, ,in order, on the one hand, to target the pilot scheme more effectively at the first expansion cross-border of enterprises which have not yet reached a size which would allow them to support the additional costs caused by the application of the unfamiliar tax laws of another Member State and, on the other hand, to put a strict limit on the potential costs and risk for tax administrations, Member States could, if they so wished, include only small companies as defined in Commission recommendation 2003/361/EC in the pilot scheme.
In the opinion of the Commission’s services' opinion, indirect ownership via third countries or non-participating Member States should therefore disqualify a group of companies from participation taking part in the pilot scheme. 11.
If there are problems with the application of this rule for the purpose of the pilot scheme, the tax administrations of the Member States in which the group is active have to reach a common agreement on the Home State; otherwise the company cannot take part in the pilot scheme. 14.
The corporate tax base rules of the Home State will therefore apply to the participating lead company and its subsidiaries and/or permanent establishments in the participating Member States.
Coverage of sectors 18.
The definition of the sector should be based on the domestic taxation rules applied in the 'home state' concerned, but the tax administrations of the Member States concerned must in any event approve the sector allocation on a case-by-case basis.
A lead company which takes part in the pilot scheme cannot choose which qualifying subsidiaries or permanent establishments in participating Member States will form part of the Home State Group ("all in/all out" approach). 2.
One-off transactions and 'abnormal' business fluctuations in turnover should not automatically lead to exclusion of the participating company (or the disposal of a large capital asset should be excluded from the turnover requirements). 6.
Unless otherwise stipulated, all transactions within the Home State group between lead company and subsidiaries or permanent establishments or between group members should be dealt with according to the domestic tax rules of the Home State. 11.
The pilot scheme does not involve any change in the remit of the tax treaties.
In specific circumstances, double taxation treaty non-discrimination issues could occur, both within the EU in relation to non-participating Member States and vis-à-vis third countries, as enterprises in the same State are treated differently under the pilot scheme.
This is because only the (foreign-sourced) income of that affiliate and only the Member State responsible for the negotiation should be affected. 27.
As regards withholding taxes, dividend payments and the related procedures concerning transactions between members of the Home State Group, the domestic rules of the Home State should apply to all members of the 'Home State Group'.
Again, this way of proceeding follows logically from the very concept of Home State Taxation. 29.
As regards payments between two enterprises established in the same Member State but subject to the tax rules of different Home States, following the suggestion of the authors of Home State Taxation[33], this transaction could usefully be considered a domestic transaction rather than a cross-border payment, and consequently the domestic rules of the residence (Host) State should be applied.
Interested companies (both the lead company and subsidiaries) would have to notify their interest in taking part in the pilot scheme to their usual counterparts in the tax administrations of their respective residence States and these would be obliged to inform and consult without delay the tax administrations of the other Member States concerned.
It seems difficult to envisage another solution which does not infringe the Member States' respective national laws. 36.
The time frame of five years is to be understood to mean that a start date for the scheme is fixed and that the scheme automatically expires five years after that date (e.g. 1 January 2007 – 31 December 2011).
Qualifying enterprises could, however, join the scheme at any time during the period and thus also participate for shorter periods (e.g. 1 January 2009 – 31 December 2011) 38.
Apportionment formula 39.
Under the Home State Taxation system the lead company uses the tax return forms of the Home State for combining and reporting its taxable activities in all Member States concerned (see above).
A strategy for providing companies with a consolidated corporate tax base for their EU-wide activities” [COM(2001)582] and "An Internal Market without company tax obstacles – achievements, ongoing initiatives and remaining challenges" [COM(2003)726] [10] Detailed information on this work is available at the following website: http://europa.eu.int/comm/taxation_customs/taxation/company_tax/common_tax_base/index_en.htm [11] Part III, ch. 8 and part IV, B, ch. 11 of the study [SEC(2001)1682] [12] For more information on the questionnaire and the replies see at http://europa.eu.int/comm/taxation_customs/taxation/company_tax/home_state_taxation/index_en.htm [13] This conclusion by the Commission is also supported by the literature, see for instance: Chittenden F., Michaelas N. %amp% Poutziouris P. (2000) ‘Small Business Taxation: An Agenda for Growth’, Executive Development Centre, Manchester Business School and NatWest Bank PLC, p.2 . [14] See for instance the replies given to the Commission consultation in 2003 and a questionnaire launched in 2004 (ch.7), both available at the following website http://europa.eu.int/comm/taxation_customs/taxation/company_tax/home_state_taxation/index_en.htm [15] Press release dated 11 June 2004. [16] See, for instance: Cressy, R. (2000) ‘Tax, Assistance, Compliance %amp% the Performance of the Smaller Business’, A Research Report to the Federation of Small Businesses; and: Chittenden F., Michaelas N. %amp% Poutziouris P. (2000) ‘Small Business Taxation: An Agenda for Growth’, Executive Development Centre, Manchester Business School and NatWest Bank PLC [17] See Annex 2 of the Commission services study [SEC(2001)1681] with further references. [18] Commission Staff Working Paper SEC(2004)1128.
Based on the econometric analysis carried out it was demonstrated that compliance costs are higher for companies with at least one subsidiary in another EU Member State compared with companies without subsidiaries in another Member State and that they increase with the number of subsidiaries abroad. [19] For a broad overview and an assessment see, for instance OECD, Directorate for Science, Technology and Industry, STI Working Paper 2002/9 "Taxation, SMEs and Entrepreneurship" by Duanjie Chen; Frank C.
