It called for the submission of a Commission proposal in early 2005.
Establishing a rule that illegal stay should be ended through a fair and transparent procedure. 2.
However, once the legal stay of a third country national has been ended for reasons of public order, this person becomes a third country national staying illegally in the territory of a Member State for the purposes of the present directive and the provisions of this directive will be applied to this person. - Legal basis Article 63(3) b of the Treaty. - Fundamental rights This proposal was made subject of an in-depth scrutiny to make sure that its provisions are fully compatibility with fundamental rights as general principles of Community law as well as international law, including refugee protection and human rights obligations derived from the European Convention of Human Rights.
Chapter III The proposal provides for a right to an effective judicial remedy against return decisions and removal orders.
The judicial remedy shall either have suspensive effect or comprise the right of the third country national to apply for the suspension of the enforcement of the return decision or removal order in which case the return decision or removal order shall be postponed until it is confirmed or is no longer subject to a remedy which has suspensive effects.
This information sharing will take place in accordance with the rules concerning the establishment, operation and use of the Second Generation Schengen Information System (SIS II). 2005/0167 (COD) Proposal for a DIRECTIVE OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL on common standards and procedures in Member States for returning illegally staying third-country nationals THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular Article 63(3)(b) thereof, Having regard to the proposal from the Commission[2], Acting in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 251 of the Treaty, Whereas: (1) The Brussels European Council of 4 and 5 November 2004 called for the establishment of an effective removal and repatriation policy, based on common standards, for persons to be returned in a humane manner and with full respect for their fundamental rights and dignity. (2) Clear, transparent and fair rules need to be fixed to provide for an effective return policy as a necessary element of a well managed migration policy. (3) This Directive should establish a horizontal set of rules, applicable to all third-country nationals who do not or who no longer fulfil the conditions for stay in a Member State. (4) Member States should ensure that the ending of illegal stay is carried out through a fair and transparent procedure. (5) As a general principle, a harmonised two-step procedure should be applied, involving a return decision as a first step and, where necessary, the issuing of a removal order as a second step.
The length of the re-entry ban should be determined with due regard to all relevant circumstances of an individual case and should not normally exceed 5 years.
That Directive should therefore be repealed. (14) Council Decision 2004/191/EC[6] sets out criteria and practical arrangements for the compensation of financial imbalances resulting from mutual recognition of expulsion decisions, which should be applied mutatis mutandis when recognising return decisions or removal orders according to this Directive. (15) Member States should have rapid access to information on return decisions, removal orders and re-entry bans issued by other Member States.
This information sharing should take place in accordance with [Decision/Regulation … on the establishment, operation and use of the Second Generation Schengen Information System (SIS II)][7] (16) Since the objective of this Directive, namely to establish common rules concerning return, removal, use of coercive measures, temporary custody and re-entry, cannot be sufficiently achieved by the Member States and can therefore, by reason of the scale and effects be better achieved at Community level, the Community may adopt measures, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity as set out in Article 5 of the Treaty.
Article 2 Scope 1.
Member States may decide not to apply this Directive to third-country nationals who have been refused entry in a transit zone of a Member State.
However, they shall ensure that the treatment and the level of protection of such third-country nationals is not less favourable than set out in Articles 8, 10, 13 and 15. 3.
Article 3 Definitions For the purpose of this Directive the following definitions shall apply: (a) ‘third-country national’ means any person who is not a citizen of the Union within the meaning of Article 17(1) of the Treaty; (b) ‘illegal stay’ means the presence on the territory of a Member State, of a third-country national who does not fulfil, or no longer fulfils the conditions for stay or residence in that Member State; (c) ‘return’ means the process of going back to one’s country of origin, transit or another third country, whether voluntary or enforced; (d) ‘return decision’ means an administrative or judicial decision or act, stating or declaring the stay of a third-country national to be illegal and imposing an obligation to return; (e) ‘removal’ means the execution of the obligation to return, namely the physical transportation out of the country; (f) ‘removal order’ means an administrative or judicial decision or act ordering the removal; (g) “re-entry ban” means an administrative or judicial decision or act preventing re-entry into the territory of the Member States for a specified period.
Article 4 More favourable provisions 1.
Article 5 Family relationships and best interest of the child When implementing this Directive, Member States shall take due account of the nature and solidity of the third country national´s family relationships, the duration of his stay in the Member State and of the existence of family, cultural and social ties with his country of origin.
Chapter II TERMINATION OF ILLEGAL STAY Article 6 Return decision 1.
Certain obligations aimed at avoiding the risk of absconding, such as regular reporting to the authorities, deposit of a financial guarantee, submission of documents or the obligation to stay at a certain place may be imposed for the duration of that period. 3.
Article 7 Removal order 1.
The removal order shall be issued as a separate act or decision or together with the return decision.
If enforcement of a return decision or execution of a removal order is postponed as provided for in paragraphs 1 and 2, certain obligations may be imposed on the third country national concerned, with a view to avoiding the risk of absconding, such as regular reporting to the authorities, deposit of a financial guarantee, submission of documents or the obligation to stay at a certain place.
Article 9 Re-entry ban 1.
Return decisions may include such a re-entry ban. 2.
The re-entry ban may be issued for a period exceeding 5 years where the third-country national concerned constitutes a serious threat to public policy or public security. 3.
Paragraphs 1 to 4 apply without prejudice to the right to seek asylum in one of the Member States.
Article 10 Removal 1.
Chapter III PROCEDURAL SAFEGUARDS Article 11 Form 1.
Member States shall ensure that the reasons in fact and in law are stated in the decision and/or order and that the third-country national concerned is informed about the available legal remedies in writing. 2.
Article 12 Judicial remedies 1.
Member States shall ensure that the third-country national concerned has the right to an effective judicial remedy before a court or tribunal to appeal against or to seek review of a return decision and/or removal order. 2.
The judicial remedy shall either have suspensive effect or comprise the right of the third country national to apply for the suspension of the enforcement of the return decision or removal order in which case the return decision or removal order shall be postponed until it is confirmed or is no longer subject to a remedy which has suspensive effects. 3.
Article 13 Safeguards pending return 1.
Member States shall ensure that the conditions of stay of third-country nationals for whom the enforcement of a return decision has been postponed or who cannot be removed for the reasons referred to in Article 8 of this Directive are not less favourable than those set out in Articles 7 to 10, Article 15 and Articles 17 to 20 of Directive 2003/9/EC. 2.
Member States shall provide the persons referred to in paragraph 1 with a written confirmation that the enforcement of the return decision has been postponed for a specified period or that the removal order will temporarily not be executed.
Chapter IV TEMPORARY CUSTODY FOR THE PURPOSE OF REMOVAL Article 14 Temporary custody 1.
Temporary custody orders shall be issued by judicial authorities.
In urgent cases they may be issued by administrative authorities, in which case the temporary custody order shall be confirmed by judicial authorities within 72 hours from the beginning of the temporary custody. 3.
Temporary custody orders shall be subject to review by judicial authorities at least once a month. 4.
Article 15 Conditions of temporary custody 1.
Member States shall ensure that third-country nationals under temporary custody are treated in a humane and dignified manner with respect for their fundamental rights and in compliance with international and national law.
Member States shall ensure that minors are not kept in temporary custody in common prison accommodation.
Chapter V APPREHENSION IN OTHER MEMBER STATES Article 16 Apprehension in other Member States Where a third-country national who does not fulfil or who no longer fulfil the conditions of entry as set out in Article 5 of the Convention Implementing the Schengen Agreement and who is the subject of a return decision or removal order issued in a Member State (“the first Member State”) is apprehended in the territory of another Member State (“the second Member State”), the second Member State may take one of the following steps: (a) recognise the return decision or removal order issued by the first Member State and carry out the removal, in which case Member States shall compensate each other for any financial imbalance which may caused, applying Council Decision 2004/191/EC mutatis mutandis; (b) request the first Member State to take back the third-country national concerned without delay, in which case the first Member State shall be obliged to comply with the request, unless it can demonstrate that the person concerned has left the territory of the Member States following the issuing of the return decision or removal order by the first Member State; (c) launch the return procedure under its national legislation; (d) maintain or issue a residence permit or another authorisation offering a right to stay for protection-related, compassionate, humanitarian or other reasons, after consultation with the first Member State in accordance with Article 25 of the Convention Implementing the Schengen Agreement.
Chapter VI FINAL PROVISIONS Article 17 Reporting The Commission shall periodically report to the European Parliament and the Council on the application of this Directive in the Member States and, if appropriate, propose amendments.
Article 19 Relationship with Schengen Convention This Directive replaces Articles 23 and 24 of the Convention implementing the Schengen Agreement.
A rticle 20 Repeal Directive 2001/40/EC is repealed.
Article 21 Entry into force This Directive shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union .
Article 22 Addressees This Directive is addressed to the Member States in accordance with the Treaty establishing the European Community.
