Proposal for a Decision of the Council and the Representatives of the Governments of the Member States of the European Union, meeting within the Council On the conclusion of the Air Transport Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, on the one hand, and the United States of America, on the other hand /* COM/2006/0169 final - CNS 2006/0058 */ [pic] | COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES | Brussels, 21.4.2006 COM(2006) 169 final 2006/0058 (CNS) Proposal for a DECISION OF THE COUNCIL AND THE REPRESENTATIVES OF THE GOVERNMENTS OF THE MEMBER STATES OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, MEETING WITHIN THE COUNCIL On the signature and provisional application of the Air Transport Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, on the one hand, and the United States of America, on the other hand Proposal for a DECISION OF THE COUNCIL AND THE REPRESENTATIVES OF THE GOVERNMENTS OF THE MEMBER STATES OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, MEETING WITHIN THE COUNCIL On the conclusion of the Air Transport Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, on the one hand, and the United States of America, on the other hand (presented by the Commission) EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM CONTEXT OF THE PROPOSAL | 110 | Grounds for and objectives of the proposal The Air Transport Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, on the one hand, and the United States of America, on the other hand has been negotiated under a mandate received from the Council in June 2003.
It would meet the legal requirements of the Community and deliver substantial immediate economic benefits for transatlantic air travellers and shippers. | 120 | General context The negotiating mandate set the objective of establishing an Open Aviation Area (OAA) between the EU and US.
On 2 November 2005, the US Department of Transportation (DOT) issued a "Notice of Proposed Rulemaking" (NPRM) that would re-interpret the statutory requirement for US airlines to be under the "actual control" of US citizens so as to expand opportunities for foreign citizens to invest in and participate in the management of US airlines.
Based on the negotiating directives of the mandate, the text of the Agreement with the United States of America was finalised by the Commission at the final negotiating round on 18 November 2005.
If the DOT's final rule is published in sufficient time and if the Council's assessment is positive, it is foreseen that signature of the Agreement will take place in the first half of 2006. | 130 | Existing provisions in the area of the proposal The provisions of the Agreement supersede the 20 existing bilateral air services agreements between Member States and the United States. | 140 | Consistency with the other policies and objectives of the Union The conclusion of an Air Transport Agreement with the United States has been a long-standing priority for the EU and is a key element in the development of the EU's external aviation policy, as identified in Commission Communication COM(2005) 79 final "Developing the agenda for the Community's external aviation policy".
All comments from stakeholders were duly taken into consideration in the preparation of the Community's negotiating position. | Collection and use of expertise | 229 | There was no need for external expertise. | 230 | Impact assessment The Agreement represents a significant first step towards the EU's ultimate goal of establishing an EU/US Open Aviation Area.
These arrangements can only be achieved at Community level because they involve a number of areas of exclusive Community competence. | Community action will better achieve the objectives of the proposal for the following reason(s). | 324 | The Agreement allows for the simultaneous extension of its terms to the 25 Member States, applying the same rules without discrimination and benefiting all Community air carriers regardless of their nationality.
These carriers can now operate freely from any point in the European Union to any point in the United States. | 325 | Removal of all market access restrictions between the EU and the United States will not only attract new entrants to the market and create opportunities to operate to underserved airports, but will also facilitate consolidation between Community air carriers. | 327 | The Agreement secures for all Community air carriers access to commercial opportunities, such as provision of aircraft with crew to US air carriers, which no Member State has been able to secure by negotiating individually.
Article 2 (Provisional application) 1.
Article 3 (Joint Committee) 1.
The Community and the Member States shall be represented in the Joint Committee established under Article 17 of the Agreement by the Commission assisted by representatives of the Member States. 2.
The position to be taken by the Community and its Member States within the Joint Committee as regards matters falling within Articles 17 or 19 of the Agreement or matters that do not require the adoption of a decision having legal effects shall be established by the Commission.
Article 4 (Arbitration) 1.
The Commission shall represent the Community and the Member States in arbitration proceedings under Article 18 of the Agreement. 2.
Any other appropriate action to be taken under Article 18 of the Agreement shall be decided by the Commission, with the assistance of a Special Committee of representatives of the Member States appointed by the Council.
Article 5 (Traffic rights) 1.
Member States shall inform in advance the Commission of any decision that they intend to adopt under Articles 4 or 5 of the Agreement. 2.
If the Commission determines at any time that a decision which a Member State has adopted, or intends to adopt, under Articles 4 or 5 of the Agreement is incompatible with the Agreement it shall address a decision to that Member State requiring it to take appropriate action in order to comply with the Agreement.
Article 6 (Safety) Member States shall inform the Commission immediately of any requests or notifications made or received by them under Article 7 of the Agreement.
Article 7 (Security) Member States shall inform the Commission immediately of any requests or notifications made or received by them under Article 8 of the Agreement.
Article 8 (Government subsidies and support) 1.
If a Member State believes that a subsidy or support being considered or provided by a governmental entity in the territory of the United States will have the adverse competitive effects referred to in Article 13(2) of the Agreement, it may bring the matter to the attention of the Commission, which may approach such entity or request a meeting of the Joint Committee established under Article 17 of the Agreement. 2.
It is also necessary to lay down appropriate procedural arrangements for the participation of the Community and the Member States in the Joint Committee set up under Article 17 of the Agreement and in the arbitration procedures provided in Article 18 of the Agreement, as well as for implementing certain provisions of the Agreement concerning security, safety, traffic rights and government support.
Upon completion of its internal procedures for entry into force of the Agreement, each Member State shall transmit to the Secretariat of the Council the diplomatic note provided for in Article 25 of the Agreement. 3.
The President of the Council is hereby authorised to designate the person empowered to deliver to the United States the diplomatic notes provided in Article 25 of the Agreement on behalf of the Community and of the Member States.
Article 2 (Termination) 1.
Article 3 (Joint Committee) 1.
The Community and the Member States shall be represented in the Joint Committee established under Article 17 of the Agreement by the Commission assisted by representatives of the Member States. 2.
The position to be taken by the Community and its Member States within the Joint Committee as regards matters falling within Articles 17 or 19 of the Agreement or matters that do not require the adoption of a decision having legal effects shall be established by the Commission.
Article 4 (Arbitration) 1.
The Commission shall represent the Community and the Member States in arbitration proceedings under Article 18 of the Agreement. 2.
Any other appropriate action to be taken under Article 18 of the Agreement shall be decided by the Commission, with the assistance of a Special Committee of representatives of the Member States appointed by the Council.
Article 5 (Traffic rights) 1.
Member States shall inform in advance the Commission of any decision that they intend to adopt under Articles 4 or 5 of the Agreement. 2.
If the Commission determines at any time that a decision which a Member State has adopted, or intends to adopt, under Articles 4 or 5 of the Agreement is incompatible with the Agreement it shall address a decision to that Member State requiring it to take appropriate action in order to comply with the Agreement.
Article 6 (Safety) Member States shall inform the Commission immediately of any requests or notifications made or received by them under Article 7 of the Agreement.
Article 7 (Security) Member States shall inform the Commission immediately of any requests or notifications made or received by them under Article 8 of the Agreement.
Article 8 (Government subsidies and support) 1.
If a Member State believes that a subsidy or support being considered or provided by a governmental entity in the territory of the United States will have the adverse competitive effects referred to in Article 13(2) of the Agreement, it may bring the matter to the attention of the Commission, which may approach such entity or request a meeting of the Joint Committee established under Article 17 of the Agreement. 2.
any amendment that has entered into force under Article 94(a) of the Convention and has been ratified by both the United States and the Member State or Member States as is relevant to the issue in question, and b.
any Annex or any amendment thereto adopted under Article 90 of the Convention, insofar as such Annex or amendment is at any given time effective for both the United States and the Member State or Member States as is relevant to the issue in question; 4. “Full cost” means the cost of providing service plus a reasonable charge for administrative overhead; 5. “International air transportation” means air transportation that passes through the airspace over the territory of more than one State; 6. "Party" means either the United States or the European Community and its Member States; 7. “Price” means any fare, rate or charge for the carriage of passengers, baggage and/or cargo (excluding mail) in air transportation, including surface transportation in connection with international air transportation, if applicable, charged by airlines, including their agents, and the conditions governing the availability of such fare, rate or charge; 8. “Stop for non-traffic purposes” means a landing for any purpose other than taking on or discharging passengers, baggage, cargo and/or mail in air transportation; 9. “Territory” means, for the United States, the land areas (mainland and islands), internal waters and territorial sea under its sovereignty or jurisdiction, and, for the European Community and its Member States, the land areas (mainland and islands), internal waters and territorial sea in which the Treaty establishing the European Community is applied and under the conditions laid down in that Treaty and any successor instrument; application of this Agreement to Gibraltar airport is understood to be without prejudice to the respective legal positions of the Kingdom of Spain and the United Kingdom with regard to the dispute over sovereignty over the territory in which the airport is situated; application of this Agreement to Gibraltar airport shall be suspended until the arrangements in the Joint Declaration made by the Foreign Ministers of the Kingdom of Spain and the United Kingdom on December 2, 1987, enter into operation; and 10. "User charge” means a charge imposed on airlines for the provision of airport, airport environmental, air navigation, or aviation security facilities or services including related services and facilities.
Article 2 Fair and Equal Opportunity Each Party shall allow a fair and equal opportunity for the airlines of both Parties to compete in providing the international air transportation governed by this Agreement.
Article 3 Grant of Rights 1.
for airlines of the European Community and its Member States (hereinafter "Community airlines"), from points behind the Member States via the Member States and intermediate points to any point or points in the United States and beyond; and for all-cargo service, between the United States and any point or points; and d.
the rights otherwise specified in this Agreement. 2.
serve behind, intermediate, and beyond points and points in the territories of the Parties in any combination and in any order; d.
Consistent with this right, neither Party shall unilaterally limit the volume of traffic, frequency or regularity of service, or the aircraft type or types operated by the airlines of the other Party, nor shall it require the filing of schedules, programs for charter flights, or operational plans by airlines of the other Party, except as may be required for customs, technical, operational, or environmental (consistent with Article 14) reasons under uniform conditions consistent with Article 15 of the Convention. 5.
airlines the right to take on board, in the territory of any Member State, passengers, baggage, cargo, or mail carried for compensation and destined for another point in the territory of that Member State; b.
Article 4 Authorization On receipt of applications from an airline of one Party, in the form and manner prescribed for operating authorizations and technical permissions, the other Party shall grant appropriate authorizations and permissions with minimum procedural delay, provided: a.
the provisions set forth in Article 7 (Safety) and Article 8 (Security) are being maintained and administered.
Article 5 Revocation of Authorization 1.
This Article does not limit the rights of either Party to withhold, revoke, limit or impose conditions on the operating authorization or technical permission of an airline or airlines of the other Party in accordance with the provisions of Article 7 (Safety) or Article 8 (Security).
Article 7 Safety 1.
Such consultations shall take place within 45 days of the request unless otherwise agreed.
Article 8 Security 1.
The Parties shall, in their mutual relations, act in conformity with the aviation security standards and appropriate recommended practices established by the International Civil Aviation Organization and designated as Annexes to the Convention; they shall require that operators of aircraft of their registries; operators of aircraft who have their principal place of business or permanent residence in their territory; and the operators of airports in their territory act in conformity with such aviation security provisions. 4.
Such measures shall be notified immediately to the responsible authorities of the other Party. 7.
When required by an emergency, a Party may take interim action prior to the expiry of 15 days. 11.
Article 9 Commercial Opportunities 1.
The airlines of each Party may enter into arrangements for the provision of aircraft with crew for international air transportation with: a.
There shall also be exempt, on the basis of reciprocity, from the taxes, levies, duties, fees and charges referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, with the exception of charges based on the cost of the service provided: a.
aircraft stores introduced into or supplied in the territory of a Party and taken on board, within reasonable limits, for use on outbound aircraft of an airline of the other Party engaged in international air transportation, even when these stores are to be used on a part of the journey performed over the territory of the Party in which they are taken on board; b.
fuel, lubricants and consumable technical supplies introduced into or supplied in the territory of a Party for use in an aircraft of an airline of the other Party engaged in international air transportation, even when these supplies are to be used on a part of the journey performed over the territory of the Party in which they are taken on board; and d.
Equipment and supplies referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article may be required to be kept under the supervision or control of the appropriate authorities. 4.
A Party may request the assistance of the other Party, on behalf of its airline or airlines, in securing an exemption from taxes, duties, charges and fees imposed by state and local governments or authorities on the goods specified in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article, as well as from fuel through-put charges, in the circumstances described in this Article, except to the extent that the charges are based on the cost of providing the service.
Article 11 User Charges 1.
Each Party shall encourage consultations between the competent charging authorities or bodies in its territory and the airlines using the services and facilities, and shall encourage the competent charging authorities or bodies and the airlines to exchange such information as may be necessary to permit an accurate review of the reasonableness of the charges in accordance with the principles of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article.
Article 12 Pricing 1.
Notwithstanding paragraph 1: a.
Article 13 Government Subsidies and Support 1.
Furthermore, it may request a meeting of the Joint Committee as provided in Article 17, to consider the issue and develop appropriate responses to concerns found to be legitimate. 3.
Each Party may approach responsible governmental entities in the territory of the other Party, including entities at the state, provincial or local level, if it believes that a subsidy or support being considered or provided by such entities will have the adverse competitive effects referred to in paragraph 2.
It may also request a meeting of the Joint Committee. 4.
Article 14 Environment 1.
The Parties shall apply any environmental measures affecting air services under this Agreement in accordance with Article 2 and 3(4) of this Agreement. 4.
Article 15 Consumer Protection The Parties affirm the importance of protecting consumers, and either Party may request a meeting of the Joint Committee to discuss consumer protection issues that the requesting Party identifies as significant.
Article 16 Computer Reservation Systems 1.
Article 17 The Joint Committee 1.
However, with respect to Article 19 or Annex 2, the Joint Committee may consider questions only relating to the refusal by either Participant to implement the commitments undertaken and the impact of competition decisions on the application of this Agreement.
Such a meeting shall begin at the earliest possible date, but not later than 60 days from the date of receipt of the request, unless otherwise agreed. 3.
Article 18 Arbitration 1.
Any dispute relating to the application or interpretation of this Agreement, other than issues arising under Article 19 or under Annex 2, that is not resolved by a meeting of the Joint Committee may be referred to a person or body for decision by agreement of the Parties.
The statement of claim shall be submitted within 30 days of the time the tribunal is fully constituted, and the statement of defense shall be submitted 40 days thereafter.
Any reply by the claimant shall be submitted within 15 days of the submission of the statement of defense.
Any reply by the respondent shall be submitted within 15 days thereafter.
The tribunal shall hold a hearing at the request of either Party, or may hold a hearing on its own initiative, within 15 days after the last reply is filed. 5.
The Parties may submit requests for clarification of the decision within 10 days after it is rendered and any clarification given shall be issued within 15 days of such request. 7.
Article 19 Competition 1.
Article 20 Second Stage Negotiations The Parties share the goal of continuing to open access to markets and to maximize benefits for consumers, airlines, labor, and communities on both sides of the Atlantic.
The Parties shall begin negotiations by not later than 60 days after the date of provisional application of this Agreement, with the goal of developing the next stage expeditiously.
Article 21 Relationship to Other Agreements 1.
During the period of provisional application pursuant to Article 24 of this Agreement, the bilateral agreements listed in section 1 of Annex 1, shall be suspended, except to the extent provided in section 2 of Annex 1. 2.
Upon entry into force pursuant to Article 25 of this Agreement, this Agreement shall supersede the bilateral agreements listed in section 1 of Annex 1, except to the extent provided in section 2 of Annex 1. 3.
Article 22 Termination Either Party may, at any time, give notice in writing through diplomatic channels to the other Party of its decision to terminate this Agreement.
Article 24 Provisional Application Pending entry into force pursuant to Article 25: 1.
The Republic of Austria: Air services agreement, signed at Vienna March 16, 1989; amended June 14, 1995.
The Kingdom of Belgium: Air transport agreement, effected by exchange of notes at Washington October 23, 1980; amended September 22 and November 12, 1986; amended November 5, 1993 and January 12, 1994. (amendment concluded on September 5, 1995 (provisionally applied).) c.
The Czech Republic: Air transport agreement, signed at Prague September 10, 1996; amended June 4, 2001 and February 14, 2002.
The Kingdom of Denmark: Agreement relating to air transport services, effected by exchange of notes at Washington December 16, 1944; amended August 6, 1954; amended June 16, 1995.
The Republic of Finland: Air transport agreement, signed at Helsinki March 29, 1949; related protocol signed May 12, 1980; agreement amending 1949 agreement and 1980 protocol concluded June 9, 1995.
The French Republic: Air transport agreement, signed at Washington June 18, 1998; amended October 10, 2000; amended January 22, 2002.
The Federal Republic of Germany: Air transport agreement and exchanges of notes, signed at Washington July 7, 1955; amended April 25, 1989. (related protocol concluded November 1, 1978; related agreement concluded May 24, 1994; protocol amending the 1955 agreement concluded on May 23, 1996; agreement amending the 1996 protocol concluded on October 10, 2000 (all provisionally applied).) h.
The Hellenic Republic: Air transport agreement, signed at Athens July 31, 1991; extended until July 31, 2006 by exchange of notes of July 19 and 25, 2005.
The Republic of Hungary: Air transport agreement and memorandum of understanding, signed at Budapest July 12, 1989; extended until July 12, 2006 by exchange of notes of July 12 and November 7, 2005.
Ireland: Agreement relating to air transport services, effected by exchange of notes at Washington February 3, 1945; amended January 25, 1988 and September 29, 1989; amended July 25 and September 6, 1990. (Memorandum of consultations, signed at Washington October 28, 1993 (provisionally applied).) k.
The Italian Republic: Air transport agreement, with memorandum and exchange of notes, signed at Rome June 22, 1970; amended October 25, 1988; related memorandum of understanding signed September 27, 1990; amendment of 1970 agreement and 1990 MOU concluded November 22 and December 23, 1991; amendment of 1970 agreement and 1990 MOU concluded May 30 and October 21, 1997; agreement supplementing the 1970 agreement concluded December 30, 1998 and February 2, 1999. (Protocol amending the 1970 agreement concluded December 6, 1999 (provisionally applied).) l.
The Kingdom of the Netherlands: Air transport agreement, signed at Washington April 3, 1957; protocol amending the 1957 agreement concluded on March 31, 1978; amendment of 1978 protocol concluded June 11, 1986; amendment of 1957 agreement concluded October 13 and December 22, 1987; amendment of 1957 agreement concluded January 29 and March 13, 1992; amendment of 1957 agreement and 1978 protocol concluded October 14, 1992.
The Slovak Republic: Air transport agreement, signed at Bratislava January 22, 2001.
The Kingdom of Spain: Air transport agreement signed at Madrid February 20, 1973; related agreement of February 20, March 31 and April 7, 1987; amendment of 1973 agreement concluded May 31, 1989; amendment of 1973 agreement concluded November 27, 1991.
The Kingdom of Sweden: Agreement relating to air transport services, effected by exchange of notes at Washington December 16, 1944; amended August 6, 1954; amended June 16, 1995.
For services between the United States and Ireland, Community airlines may serve only Boston, New York, Chicago, Los Angeles, and 3 additional points in the United States, to be notified to the United States upon selection or change.
ANNEX 2 Concerning Cooperation With Respect to Competition Issues in the Air Transportation Industry Article 1 The cooperation as set forth in this Annex shall be implemented by the Department of Transportation of the United States of America and the Commission of the European Communities (hereinafter referred to as "the Participants"), consistent with their respective functions in addressing competition issues in the air transportation industry involving the United States and the European Community.
Article 2 Purpose The purpose of this cooperation is: 1.
Article 3 Definitions For the purpose of this Annex, the term “competition regime” means the laws, procedures and practices that govern the Participants’ exercise of their respective functions in reviewing agreements and other cooperative arrangements among airlines in the international market.
With respect to the Department of Transportation, (i) proceedings for review of applications for approval of agreements and other cooperative arrangements among airlines involving international air transportation, in particular for antitrust immunity involving airlines organized under the laws of the United States and the European Community, and (ii) receipt by the Department of Transportation of a joint venture agreement pursuant to section 41720 of Title 49 of the United States Code; and b.
With respect to the Commission of the European Communities, (i) proceedings for review of agreements and other cooperative arrangements among airlines involving international air transportation, in particular for alliance and other cooperative agreements involving airlines organized under the laws of the United States and the European Community, and (ii) consideration of individual or block exemptions from European Union competition law; (5) Notifications of the availability, and any conditions governing that availability, of information and data filed with a Participant, in electronic form or otherwise, that, in the judgment of that Participant, may have significant implications for the competition interests of the other Participant; and (6) Notifications of such other activities relating to air transportation competition policy as may seem appropriate to the notifying Participant.
Article 5 Use and Disclosure of Information (1) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Annex, neither Participant is expected to provide information to the other Participant if disclosure of the information to the requesting Participant: a.
would be incompatible with important interests of the Participant possessing the information. (2) Each Participant shall to the extent possible maintain the confidentiality of any information provided to it in confidence by the other Participant under this Annex and to oppose any application for disclosure of such information to a third party that is not authorized by the supplying Participant to receive the information.
Each Participant intends to notify the other Participant whenever any information proposed to be exchanged in discussions or in any other manner may be required to be disclosed in a public proceeding. (3) Where pursuant to this Annex a Participant provides information on a confidential basis to the other Participant for the purposes specified in Article 2, that information should be used by the receiving Participant only for that purpose.
Article 6 Implementation (1) Each Participant is designating a representative to be responsible for coordination of activities established under this Annex. (2) This Annex, and all activities undertaken by a Participant pursuant to it, are -- a.
