Communication from the Commission - Implementing the Community Lisbon Programme : A policy framework to strengthen EU manufacturing - towards amore integrated approach for industrial policy {SEC(2005) 1215} {SEC(2005) 1216} {SEC(2005) 1217} /* COM/2005/0474 final */ [pic] | COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES | Brussels, 5.10.2005 COM(2005) 474 final COMMUNICATION FROM THE COMMISSION Implementing the Community Lisbon Programme: A policy framework to strengthen EU manufacturing - towards amore integrated approach for industrial policy {SEC(2005) 1215}{SEC(2005) 1216}{SEC(2005) 1217} TABLE OF CONTENTS 1.
EU Industrial Policy and the Action Programme for Growth and Employment 3 2.
Sector-specific initiatives 11 5.
The main role of industrial policy is to provide the right framework conditions for enterprise development and innovation in order to make the EU an attractive place for industrial investment and job creation.
The range and diversity of the policy challenges posed by different sectors has thus been examined in some detail, based upon a systematic screening of opportunities and challenges for 27 separate sectors of EU manufacturing industry and construction[5].
In fact, the majority of individual EU manufacturing sectors have performed well in comparison with their counterparts in other industrialised economies.
Cross-sectoral policy initiatives Seven major cross - sectoral policy initiatives are announced in this Communication in order to address the common challenges across groupings of different industries and to reinforce the synergies between different policy areas in the light of competitiveness considerations.
Building upon the on-going work by the Cedefop, this information base would allow the articulation of future specific policy initiatives in the light of sectoral competitiveness requirements.
Managing Structural Change in Manufacturing (End 2005) The private sector has the primary responsibility for undertaking structural adjustment.
An Integrated European approach to Industrial Research and Innovation (2005) The forthcoming Communication on Research and Innovation[18] will set out a new, integrated approach to policies and actions in support of research and innovation, including a number of initiatives highly relevant for industrial sectors.
As part of the follow up to the Communication on Research and Innovation, a European Industrial Research and Innovation Monitoring System will be established in 2006 to provide a consolidated overview and analysis of developments relevant to industrial research and innovation, and a conduit for stakeholder views.
The European Technology Platforms[19], which have already demonstrated themselves as an important voluntary, bottom-up process for shaping industrial and policy strategies in well-defined key technology domains via their ‘strategic research agendas’, will contribute to increasing industrial investment in research and innovation and Europe's capacity to commercialise new technologies. 4.2.
Sector-specific initiatives In addition to the cross-sectoral initiatives, a number of new political sector-specific initiatives have been identified, based on their nature or particular importance.
A further High-level group will be set for the defence industries, examining issues such as the transfer of defence goods, procurement and standardization in the defense area. - European Space Programme The European Space Programme will be the common, inclusive and flexible programmatic basis for the activities of European Space Agency, EU and their respective Member states.
CONCLUSION This Communication sets out an outline of work for industrial policy in manufacturing industries for the coming years.
A mid-term review of the outline of work will be undertaken in a Communication scheduled for 2007 which will report on progress on the work programme presented above and consider possible further extensions to other focuses of the economy, such as for example environmental technologies. [pic] ANNEX 2 [pic] [pic] The sectoral actions include only studies and actions directly related to identified challenges, unless otherwise addressed through horizontal actions.
The challenges facing the Business related services sectors are described in the Communication on the Competitiveness of Business Related Services and their Contribution to the Performance of European Enterprises - COM(2003) 747, which also announced an Action Plan on Business Related Services. [6] Sources: Eurostat Business Statistics. [7] See also the forthcoming EU Annual Economic Review that analyses the factors affecting the competitiveness of the EU economy as a whole. [8] See section VI of the EU Sectoral Competitiveness Indicators 2005. [9] Eurostat “EU Foreign Direct Investment in 2003” Statistics in Focus, 20/2005. [10] Since only limited sectoral data was available on the New Member states, the screening must be regarded as preliminary.
A broadly similar, but not identical, classification was used in the “Industry Memorandum: Heart for Industry” of the Netherlands Ministry of Economic Affairs (October 2004).
