COMMENTS ON THE COMMON POSITION The Common position was adopted on 12 June 2006 by unanimity.
Housing The European Parliament amendment N. 82 asked for eligibility of expenses related to the renovation of social housing with a view to saving energy and protecting the environment in the context of sustainable urban development.
Extension of the scope of the “Regional competitiveness and employment” Objective Article 5 of the draft ERDF Regulation lays down the primary scope of the “Regional competitiveness and employment” Objective and modifies the Commission’s proposal because it states that such a scope is not exclusive. 7.
Amendment 12 concerning the territorial specificities is included in the recital (13).
For the scope of the “European territorial cooperation”, the environmental activities have been added in the priorities of the objective, as proposed by amendment 65 .
The first part of Amendment 80 on the inter-regional co-operation is in the common position (Article 6 (3) a)).
Amendments not incorporated in the common position The amendments 44 to 59 and 61 to 64 for article 5 adding new fields of intervention for the ERDF within the “Regional competitiveness and employment” objective were not accepted as such.
Given that the content of the operational programmes for the “European territorial cooperation” objective has to be as close as possible to that of the operational programmes of the two others objectives, the amendments 91 to 100 on Article 12, which extend the requests for the content of these operational programmes, have not been incorporated.
Amendment 103 : the provisions of the regulation must respect the institutional organisation of each Member States and the powers of the Monitoring committees.
Amendments 104 and 105 go beyond the field of the ERDF regulation and cannot be accepted.
Therefore Amendments 106 and 107 to article 15 and article 16 are without subject. 5.
CONCLUSION While it would have preferred to keep the initial scope of the Regulation, the Commission considers that the common position adopted on 12 June 2006 by unanimity largely follows the aims and approach of its proposal and incorporates some significant EP amendments and so can support it.
