A legislative measure which would harm the protection guaranteed by Community law and more in particular by the case-law of the Court of Justice and the European Court of Human Rights is not only unacceptable, but also illegal.
The proposal has a direct impact on the protection given by Article 8 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (the %quot%ECHR%quot%).
In the preceding paragraph it has been shown that, under the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights, the obligation to retain data falls within the scope of Article 8 ECHR and that a pressing justification is needed that respects the criterion of the Dudgeon-judgement.
In addition, the proposal has a huge impact on principles of data protection recognised by Community law: - The data have to be retained over a period far longer than the periods that are usual for retention by providers of publicly available electronic communications services or by a public communications network (both services are hereafter referred to as %quot%providers%quot%). - Under Directive 2002/58/EC, more in particular its Article 6, data may only be collected and stored for reasons directly related to the communication itself, including billing purposes [7].
One could think of the commercial use of the data, as well as of the use of the data for %quot%fishing operations%quot% and/or data mining by law enforcement authorities or national security services. 12.
According to the EDPS, the considerations of the Article 29 Data Protection Working Party mentioned above should be the point of departure for the appraisal of the present proposal.
The Commission as well as the Presidency of the Council attach importance to a study by the police of the United Kingdom [8] that shows that although 85 % of the traffic data required by the police was less than six months old, the data between six months and a year were used in complex investigations into more serious crimes.
The retention period in the proposal — one year for telephone data — reflects these practices of law enforcement. 17.
In the second place, the existing possibilities for the providers under Directive 2002/58/EC to retain traffic data for billing purposes are not always used, since in a growing number of cases data retention for billing purposes does not take place at all (prepaid cards for mobile communications, flat rate-subscriptions, etc.).
The EDPS recognises the changes of circumstances, but is as yet not convinced of the necessity of the retention of traffic and location data for law enforcement purposes, as established in the proposal.
The proportionality 24.
The retention of data is only adequate and effective in so far as effective search engines exist. 27.
This number must reflect the demonstrated needs of law enforcement and it must be ensured that access to content data is not possible, - contain adequate safety measures, so as to limit the access and further use, guarantee the security of the data and ensure that the data subjects themselves can exercise their rights. 28.
This need for harmonisation will be elaborated under IV.
In the first place, the proposal will have to make sure that the access to and the further use of these data will be limited, only under specified circumstances and for a limited number of specified purposes. 31.
As to the access by intelligence services, the EDPS observes that, under Article 33 TEU and Article 64 EC interventions within the third pillar and the first pillar shall not affect the exercise of the responsibilities incumbent upon Member States with regard to the maintenance of law and order and the safeguarding of internal security.
The safeguards should also apply in the case of access and further use of the traffic data by authorities in other Member States. 35.
In his view, such a legal framework requires additional safeguards and could not limit itself to a reaffirmation of the general principles of data protection in the first pillar [9]. 36.
Such an incentive could be that the providers are compensated for the additional costs of adequate safety-measures. 37.
III The legal basis and the draft framework decision 38.
An intervention of the Community based on Article 95 EC (internal market) must have the removal of barriers to trade as its main object.
However, a Community act can impose conditions on the Member States as to the designation of competent authorities, the judicial control or the access to justice by citizens.
IV The need for harmonisation 43.
As to the functioning of the internal market, harmonisation of the obligations to retain data justifies the choice of the legal basis of the proposal (Article 95 EC).
Allowing essential differences between the laws of the Member States would not take away the existing disturbances in the internal market of electronic communications which are inter alia due to the (imminent) adoption of legislative measures in Member States under Article 15 of Directive 2002/58/EC (see point 19 of this opinion). 46.
This could impede the exchange of information between the authorities of the Member States. 48.
Finally, the EDPS emphasises — with a reference to his responsibility under Article 41 of Regulation (EC) No 45/2001 — that full harmonisation of the main elements included in the proposal is indispensable to comply with the ECHR and the principles of data protection.
V Comments on the articles of the proposal Article 3: Obligation to retain data 49.
Article 3 is the key provision of the proposal.
The data retained shall only be provided: - to the competent national authorities, - in specific cases, - for the purpose of the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of serious criminal offences, such as terrorism and organised crime.
The EDPS recommends adding a provision in the text to ensure that individuals other than the competent authorities do not have access to the data.
However, the text of the proposal should specify that data can only be provided if this is needed in relation to a specific criminal offence. 54.
The practice in the Member States will diverge.
The EDPS emphasised in section IV of this opinion the need of full harmonisation of the main elements included in the proposal.
The EDPS recommends therefore limiting the provision to certain serious criminal offences. 55.
Moreover, it should be laid down that access in specific cases should be under judicial control in the Member States. 57.
Article 4: Categories of data to be retained 59.
The EDPS recommends the following amendments: - Article 4, second paragraph, should contain more substantial criteria to ensure that content data are not included.
The following sentence should be added: %quot%The Annex may not include data that reveal the content of a communication%quot%, - Article 5 opens up the possibility for the revision of the Annex by a Commission-directive (%quot%comitology%quot%).
The EDPS advises that revisions of the Annex with a substantial impact on data protection should preferably be made by way of a directive, in accordance with the co-decision-procedure [10].
Article 7: Periods of retention 61.
It should be clarified in the text that: - the retention periods of 6 months, respectively one year are maximum-periods of retention, - the data are erased at the end of the retention period.
Articles 8 and 3(2) presuppose that the required data are transmitted by the providers to the authorities and that the latter do not have direct access to the databases.
The EDPS recommends stating this presumption explicitly in the text. 64.
The provision should be specified, by stating that: - The required data are transmitted by the providers to the authorities (see point 63). - The providers should install the necessary technical architecture, including search engines, to facilitate the targeted access to the specified data. - The providers should ensure that only members of their staff with specified technical responsibilities have access to the databases for technical reasons and that those members of staff are aware of the sensitive character of the data and work under strict internal rules of confidentiality. - The transmission of the data should not only take place without undue delay, but also without revealing other traffic and location data than the data needed for the purposes of the request.
Article 9: Statistics 65.
According to the EDPS, this obligation gives effect to the principle of transparency.
Article 10: Costs 67.
The EDPS therefore regards Article 10 — that provides for the reimbursement of demonstrated additional costs — as an important provision that could serve as an incentive for the providers to invest in the technical infrastructure. 68.
For a large network and service provider, costs would be more than EUR 150 million, for a 12-month retention period, with annual operating costs of around EUR 50 million [12].
Moreover, the proposal should provide minimum-standards for the safety-measures to be taken by the providers, in order to be entitled to a reimbursement by a Member State.
According to the EDPS, the determination of these standards could not be left completely to the Member States.
Article 11: Amendment of Directive 2002/58/EC 71.
Article 12: Evaluation 72.
VI Conclusions Preconditions 74.
A legislative measure which would harm the protection guaranteed by Community law and more in particular by the case-law of the Court of Justice and the European Court of Human Rights is not only unacceptable, but also illegal. 75.
As to the necessity: the EDPS recognises the changes of circumstances, but is as yet not convinced of the necessity of the retention of traffic and location data for law enforcement purposes, as established in the proposal. 77.
Nevertheless, the EDPS presents in this opinion his view on the proportionality of the proposal.
This means in the first place, retention of traffic and location data alone is in itself not an adequate or effective response.
Additional measures are needed, so as to ensure that the authorities have a targeted and quick access to the data needed in a specific case.
The periods must reflect the needs of law enforcement, - limit the number of data to be stored.
This number must reflect the needs of law enforcement and ensure that access to content data is not possible, - contain adequate safety measures.
The EDPS considers the following points essential, for the proposal to be acceptable from the perspective of data protection: - The addition to the proposal of specific provisions on access to the traffic and location data by the competent authorities and on the further use of the data, as an essential and inseparable part of the subject-matter. - The addition to the proposal of further additional safeguards for data protection (contrary to a simply reference to safeguards in existing legislation, more in particular Directive 95/46/EC and Directive 2002/58/EC), inter alia to ensure the exercise of the rights of the data subjects. - The addition to the proposal of further incentives to the providers to invest in an adequate technical infrastructure, including financial incentives.
As to Article 3(2): - addition of a provision to ensure that individuals other than the competent authorities do not have access to the data.
This provision could be formulated as follows: %quot%the data may only be accessed and/or processed for the purpose mentioned in Article 3(2)%quot% or %quot%the providers shall effectively guarantee that access is only granted to the competent authorities%quot%: - specification that data can only be provided if this is needed in relation to a specific criminal offence, - limitation of the provision to certain serious criminal offences, - addition to the proposal of one or more articles on the access to the traffic and location data by the competent authorities and on the further use of the data, as well as of a provision that access in specific cases should be under judicial control in the Member States, - inclusion of a paragraph on data protection. 82.
As to Articles 4 and 5: - addition to Article 4, second paragraph, of the following sentence: %quot%The Annex may not include data that reveal the content of a communication%quot%, - specification that revisions of the Annex with a substantial impact on data protection should preferably be made by way of a directive, in accordance with the co-decision procedure. 83.
As to Article 7, a specification in the text that the: - retention periods of 6 months and one year are maximum-periods of retention, - data are erased at the end of the retention period.
As to Article 8, a specification in the text that: - the required data are transmitted by the providers to the authorities, - the providers should install the necessary technical architecture, including search engines, to facilitate the targeted access to the specified data, - the providers should ensure that only members of their staff with specified technical responsibilities have access to the databases for technical reasons and that those members of staff are aware of the sensitive character of the data and work under strict internal rules of confidentiality, - the transmission of the data should not only take place without undue delay, but also without revealing other traffic and location data than the data needed for the purposes of the request. 85.
As to Article 10: - clarification of the relationship between the adequacy of safety-measures and the costs should be made clear in the text of the provision, - addition of minimum-standards for the safety-measures to be taken by the providers, in order to be entitled to a reimbursement by a Member State, - clarification of the financial consequences of the proposal in the explanatory memorandum. 87.
As to Article 11: - amendment of Article 15 (1) of Directive 2002/58/EC to delete the references to Article 6 and Article 9 (of that same directive), or at least to modify them in order to clarify that the Member States are no longer competent to adopt legislation in relation to criminal offences, additional to the present proposal. 88.
As to Article 12, amendment of the provision of evaluation: - it should comprise an assessment of the effectiveness of the implementation of the directive, - it should take place on a regular basis (at least every 2 years), - the Commission should be obliged to submit amendments to the proposal, where appropriate (like in Article 18 of Directive 2002/58/EC).
Done at Brussels on 26 September 2005.
Peter Hustinx, European Data Protection Supervisor [1] OJ L 281, 23.11.1995, p. 31. [2] OJ L 201, 31.7.2002, p. 37. [3] OJ L 8, 21.1.2001, p. 1. [4] Judgment of the ECHR of 16 February 2000, Amann, 2000-II, Appl. 27798/95. [5] Judgment of the ECHR of 2 August 1984, Malone, A82, Appl. 8691/79. [6] Judgment of the ECHR of 22 October 1981, Dudgeon, A45, Appl. 7525. [7] See also point 3 of this opinion. [8] Liberty and security, striking the right balance.
Paper by the UK Presidency of the European Union of 7 September 2005. [9] See, in the same sense, the Position Paper on Law Enforcement and Information Exchange in the EU, adopted at the Spring Conference of European Data Protection Authorities, Krakow, 25 to 26 April 2005. [10] See in the same sense, the Opinion of the EDPS of 23 March 2005 on the Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the Visa Information System (VIS) and the exchange of data between Member States on short stay-visas (Paragraph 3.12). [11] See in the same sense, the Opinion of the EDPS of 23 March 2005 on the Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the Visa Information System (VIS) and the exchange of data between Member States on short-stay visas (Paragraph 3.9). [12] The Commission refers to figures of ETNO (the EU association of telecommunications operators) and to a report by MEP Alvaro on the draft Framework Decision. --------------------------------------------------
