Proposal for a decision of the Council and of the Commission on the conclusion on behalf of the European Community and the European Atomic Energy Community of the Agreement on Scientific and Technological Cooperation between the European Communities of the one part and the Swiss Confederation of the other part /* COM/2005/0333 final - CNS 2005/0135 */ [pic] | COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES | Brussels, 25.7.2005 COM(2005) 333 final 2005/0135 (CNS) Proposal for a DECISION OF THE COUNCIL AND OF THE COMMISSION on the conclusion on behalf of the European Community and the European Atomic Energy Community of the Agreement on Scientific and Technological Cooperation between the European Communities of the one part and the Swiss Confederation of the other part EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM 1.
On 7 June 2002, as the Sixth (EC and Euratom) Framework Programmes were being adopted by the Communities, the Swiss Confederation officially requested the Commission to renew the abovementioned Agreement with a view to being associated in them. 4.
It is in the interest of the Communities to renew this Agreement in order to associate the Swiss Confederation in the Sixth (EC and Euratom) Framework Programmes and thereby expand the European Research Area. 5.
Consequently, on 26 November 2002 the Commission proposed that the Council authorise it to negotiate the renewal of the Agreement with a view to associating the Swiss Confederation in the Sixth (EC and Euratom) Framework Programmes.
On 25 November 2003 the Commission submitted to the Council a proposal for a Council Decision authorising the signature of the abovementioned Agreement.
The Council adopted this Decision on 22 December 2003 and the attached Agreement and the Annexes thereto were signed on 16 January 2004 in Brussels. 8.
In addition, Annex C contains new provisions on cooperation between the Communities and the Swiss Confederation on control of Community funds. 9.
Finally, following the entry into force of the Sixth Framework Programmes, in view of the fact that the associated States make annual contributions to the respective budgets and of the time needed for negotiation of this renewal, it is proposed that this Agreement should enter into force on 1 January 2004 and, if it is not concluded in time, should apply provisionally from that date on, subject to signature at a later date. 10.
Regulations No 1/1958[1] oblige the European Community and the Euratom Community to draft documents of general application in all the official languages of the Member States, which since enlargement, total 20 languages.
This Agreement was signed by the representatives of the Parties on 16 January 2004 in Brussels, subject to its conclusion at a later date. 16.
The Commission is hereby authorised to approve with the Swiss Confederation, via an exchange of letters, that all the languages of the Member States following the enlargement of 1 May 2004 are authentic.
Legal entities established in Switzerland may participate in all the specific programmes of the Sixth EC and Euratom Framework Programmes. 2.
Switzerland shall be taken into consideration, alongside the Member States of the European Union, for any indirect action under the Sixth EC Framework Programme based on Article 169 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, subject to participation in the same indirect action by at least two Member States or associated candidate countries. 2.
Participation of legal entities established in the Communities in Swiss research programmes and/or projects decided by the Federal Council on themes equivalent to those of the Sixth EC and Euratom Framework Programmes, in accordance with the terms and conditions laid down in the relevant Swiss regulations and with the agreement of the partners in the specific project and the managers of the corresponding Swiss programme.
Legal entities established in the Communities participating in Swiss research programmes and/or projects shall cover their own costs, including their relative share of the project's general management and administrative costs. 4.
In addition to regular provision of information and documentation concerning the implementation of the Sixth EC and Euratom Framework Programmes and of the Swiss programmes and/or projects, the cooperation between the Parties may include the following forms and means: a) regular exchanges of views on the orientation and priorities of research policies and planning in Switzerland and in the Communities; b) exchanges of views on the prospects for and development of cooperation; c) timely exchanges of information on the implementation of the research programmes and projects in Switzerland and in the Communities and on the results of the work undertaken under this Agreement; d) joint meetings; e) visits and exchanges of researchers, engineers and technicians; f) regular contacts and follow-up between programme or project leaders in Switzerland and in the Communities; g) participation of experts in seminars, symposia and workshops.
Article 3 Adjustment Cooperation may be adapted and developed at any time by mutual agreement between the Parties.
Article 4 Intellectual property rights and obligations 1.
Article 5 Financial provisions 1.
Switzerland's financial contribution deriving from participation in the implementation of the Sixth EC and Euratom Framework Programmes shall be established in proportion to and in addition to the amount allocated each year in the general budget of the European Union for commitment appropriations to meet the Commission's financial obligations stemming from work to be carried out in the forms necessary for the implementation, management and operation of the programmes and activities covered by this Agreement. 2.
Article 6 Switzerland/Communities Research Committee 1.
Article 7 Participation 1.
Without prejudice to the provisions of Article 4, legal entities established in Switzerland participating in the Sixth EC and Euratom Framework Programmes shall have the same contractual rights and obligations as entities established in the Communities. 2.
Article 8 Mobility Each Party hereby undertakes, in accordance with existing regulations and agreements in force, to guarantee the entry and stay of researchers and - as far as indispensable for successful accomplishment of the activity concerned - of a limited number of research personnel participating, in Switzerland and in the Communities, in the activities covered by this Agreement.
Article 9 Revision and future collaboration 1.
Article 10 Relation to other international agreements The provisions of this Agreement shall apply without prejudice to the advantages envisaged by other international agreements binding one of the Parties and reserved exclusively for legal entities established on the territory of that Party.
Article 11 Territorial scope This Agreement shall apply, on the one hand, to the territories in which the Treaties establishing the Communities are applied and under the conditions laid down in those Treaties and, on the other, to the territory of Switzerland.
Article 12 Annexes Annexes A, B and C form an integral part of this Agreement.
Article 13 Amendment and termination 1.
Article 14 Entry into force and provisional application 1.
It shall enter into force on the date of the final notification of completion of the procedures necessary to this end and shall come into effect on 1 January 2004. 2.
Should the procedures for ratification or conclusion of the signed Agreement not be completed in 2003, the Parties shall apply this Agreement provisionally from 1 January 2004 until its entry into force.
Should one of the Parties inform the other that it will not conclude the Agreement, it is hereby agreed that: - the Communities shall reimburse to Switzerland its contribution to the general budget of the European Union as specified in Article 2(2); - however, the funds committed by the Communities for participation by legal entities established in Switzerland in indirect action, including the reimbursements provided for in Article 2(1), shall be deducted by the Communities from the abovementioned reimbursement; - projects and activities started during this provisional application and still in progress at the time of the abovementioned notification shall continue until their completion under the conditions laid down in this Agreement.
Legal entities established in Switzerland participating in indirect action under the Sixth EC and Euratom Framework Programmes shall have intellectual property rights and obligations under the conditions set out in Regulation (EC) No 2321/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council,[13] in Council Regulation No 2322/2002 (Euratom)[14] and in the contract concluded with the Communities, in accordance with paragraph 1.
Where Switzerland participates in indirect action under the Sixth EC Framework Programme, implemented in accordance with Article 169 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, Switzerland shall have the same intellectual property rights and obligations as the Member States participating therein, as set out in the relevant decision of the European Parliament and of the Council and in the contract concluded with the European Community, in accordance with paragraph 1. 3.
Legal entities established in a European Union Member State participating in Swiss research programmes and/or projects shall have the same intellectual property rights and obligations as legal entities established in Switzerland participating in these research programmes or projects, in accordance with paragraph 1.
Unless otherwise agreed between the Parties, the following rules shall apply to undisclosed information of the Parties: a) At the time of submission to the other Party of information relating to the activities undertaken under this Agreement, each Party shall identify the information which it wishes to remain undisclosed.
e) Each Party shall ensure that undisclosed information which it acquires in accordance with paragraphs 3(a) and 3(d) shall be controlled as provided for in this Agreement.
ANNEX B FINANCIAL RULES GOVERNING THE CONTRIBUTION OF SWITZERLAND REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE 5 OF THIS AGREEMENT I.
DETERMINATION OF FINANCIAL PARTICIPATION 1.
Nonetheless, in order to facilitate internal budgetary procedures, the Commission services shall provide corresponding indicative figures at the latest on 30 May of each year. 2.
PAYMENT PROCEDURES 1.
By no later than 15 June and 15 November of each financial year the Commission shall issue a call for funds to Switzerland corresponding to its contribution under this Agreement.
These calls for funds shall provide respectively for the payment of: - six twelfths of Switzerland's contribution not later than 20 July, and - six twelfths of its contribution not later than 15 December.
The contributions of Switzerland shall be expressed and paid in euros. 3.
Travel costs incurred by Swiss representatives and experts for the purposes of taking part in the work of the research committees and those involved in the implementation of the two Framework Programmes shall be reimbursed by the Commission on the same basis as, and in accordance with, the procedures currently in force for the representatives and experts of the Member States of the Communities.
CONDITIONS FOR IMPLEMENTATION 1.
The financial contribution of Switzerland to the two Framework Programmes in accordance with Article 5 of this Agreement shall normally remain unchanged for the financial year in question. 2.
At the latest on 31 May of each financial year (n + 1), the statement of appropriations for the two Framework Programmes, related to the previous financial year (n), shall be prepared and transmitted to Switzerland for information, according to the format of the Commission's revenue and expenditure account. 2.
DIRECT COMMUNICATION The Commission shall communicate directly with the participants in the Sixth EC and Euratom Framework Programmes established in Switzerland and with their subcontractors.
ON-THE-SPOT INSPECTIONS 1.
Within the framework of this Agreement, the Commission (OLAF) shall be authorised to carry out on-the-spot checks and inspections on Swiss territory, in accordance with the terms and conditions laid down in Council Regulation (Euratom, EC) No 2185/96 of 11 November 1996. 2.
INFORMATION AND CONSULTATION 1.
ADMINISTRATIVE MEASURES AND PENALTIES Without prejudice to application of Swiss criminal law, administrative measures and penalties may be imposed by the Commission in accordance with Regulations (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 and (EC, Euratom) No 2342/2002 of 23 December 2002 and with Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2988/95 of 18 December 1995 on the protection of the European Communities' financial interests.
The Agreement on Scientific and Technological Cooperation associating Switzerland in the Sixth Framework Programmes, signed on 16 January 2004 for EU-15 and EURATOM-15, will thus be concluded by EU-25 and EURATOM-25.
In particular, the following points will have to be provided for in the contracts : - the introduction of specific contractual clauses to protect the financial interests of the EC in carrying out checks and controls in relation to the work performed; - the participation of administrative inspectors in the field of fraud-fighting, in accordance with Regulations Nos 2185/96, 1073/1999 and 1074/1999; - the application of administrative sanctions for all intentional or negligent irregularities in the implementation of the contracts , in accordance with Framework Regulation No 2988/95, including a black-listing mechanism; - the fact that possible recovery orders in case of irregularities and fraud be enforceable according to Article 256 of the EC Treaty and Article 164 of the EAEC Treaty.
