The Commission Communication of 14 June 2004 “Improving Access to Durable Solutions” (COM(2004) 410) (the June 2004 Communication) made proposals for a new EU approach to the international protection regime.
In the Hague Programme of 4-5 November 2004, the European Council acknowledged the need for the EU to contribute, in a spirit of shared responsibility to a more accessible, equitable and effective international protection system in partnership with third countries and to provide access to protection and durable solutions at the earliest possible stage.
A distinction was drawn between the differing needs of countries in regions of transit and countries in regions of origin.
The development of Regional Protection Programmes, in cooperation with UNHCR, in line with the Memorandum of Understanding between the Commission and UNHCR of 15 February 2005, and third countries in regions of origin, will necessitate the coordination of EU, refugee, humanitarian and development policies to address the full range of protection needs as well as the impacts of refugee populations on local communities to ensure that benefits are maximised for all.
Projects aimed at improving the general protection situation in the host country. 2.
A resettlement commitment, whereby EU Member States undertake, on a voluntary basis, to provide durable solutions for refugees by offering resettlement places in their countries. 7.
The Commission notes that since the June 2004 Communication several Member States are considering setting up their own national resettlement schemes.
The Commission expects that this change in approach will contribute to the wider success of Regional Protection Programmes, by adding substantially to the existing resettlement effort rather than simply re-packaging current schemes in the context of Regional Protection Programmes. 8.
THE REGIONS FOR THE FIRST REGIONAL PROTECTION PROGRAMMES 9.
REGIONAL PROTECTION PROGRAMME FOR THE WESTERN NIS COUNTRIES 12.
Proposals for activities in these areas should be brought forward in the AENEAS Call for Proposals 2005 and TACIS 2006 Regional Action Programmes and other available financial opportunities.
AENEAS allocates an indicative € 2 million for asylum and international protection in this region. 5.
This smaller scale Regional Protection Programme could serve as a catalyst for further actions and a basis for a wider, more comprehensive Regional Protection Programme to follow. 16.
These regions have been evoked in detail in discussions between Member States.
The results of these ongoing activities could prove essential for assessing the need for assisting the relevant third countries in devising a possible future Regional Protection Programme for this region.
