Proposal for a Council Decision on the conclusion of the Agreement in the form of an Exchange of Letters on the provisional application of the Protocol setting out, for the period from 18 January 2005 to 17 January 2011, the fishing opportunities and the financial contribution provided for by the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Seychelles on fishing off Seychelles /* COM/2005/0420 final */ [pic] | COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES | Brussels, 13.9.2005 COM(2005)420 final .
Proposal for a COUNCIL DECISION on the conclusion of the Agreement in the form of an Exchange of Letters on the provisional application of the Protocol setting out, for the period from 18 January 2005 to 17 January 2011, the fishing opportunities and the financial contribution provided for by the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Seychelles on fishing off Seychelles . (presented by the Commission) EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM The Protocol annexed to the fisheries Agreement between the European Community and Seychelles expires on 17 January 2005.
The new Protocol grants fishing possibilities for 40 tuna seiners and 12 surface longliners.
The financial compensation is fixed at 4,125,000 € per year and covers a catch weight in the waters of Seychelles of 55,000 tons of catches per year.
Proposal for a COUNCIL DECISION on the conclusion of the Agreement in the form of an Exchange of Letters on the provisional application of the Protocol setting out, for the period from 18 January 2005 to 17 January 2011, the fishing opportunities and the financial contribution provided for by the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Seychelles on fishing off Seychelles THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particularArticle 37 in conjunction with Article 300 (2) thereof, Having regard to the proposal from the Commission[1], Whereas: 1.
Under this Protocol, Community fishermen enjoy fishing opportunities in the waters falling within the sovereignty or jurisdiction of Seychelles for the period 18 January 2005 to 17 January 2011; 4.
Article 2 The fishing opportunities fixed in the Protocol shall be allocated among the Member States as follows: - Tuna seiners: France: 17 vessels, Spain: 22 vessels, Italy: 1 vessel. - Surface long-liners: Spain: 2 vessels, France: 5 vessels, Portugal: 5 vessels. | If licence applications from these Member States do not cover all the fishing opportunities fixed by the Protocol, the Commission may take into consideration licence applications from any other Member State.
Article 3 The President of the Council is hereby authorized to designate the persons empowered to sign the Agreement in the form of an exchange of letters in order to bind the Community.
Done at Brussels, For the Council The President ANNEX Agreement in the form of an Exchange of Letters on the provisional application ofthe Protocol setting out, for the period from 18 January 2005 to 17 January 2011, the fishing opportunities and the financial contribution provided for by the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Seychelles on fishing off Seychelles A.
Letter from the Government of the Republic of Seychelles: Sir, With reference to the Protocol, initialled on 23 September 2004, setting out, for the period from 18 January 2005 to 17 January 2011, the fishing opportunities and the financial contribution, I have the honour to inform you that the Government of the Republic of Seychelles is willing to apply the Protocol provisionally from 18 January 2005 pending its entry into force in accordance with Article 11 thereof, provided that the European Community is prepared to do likewise.
For the Council of the European Union PROTOCOL Protocol setting out, for the period from 18 January 2005 to 17 January 2011, the fishing opportunities and the financial contribution provided for by the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Seychelles on fishing off Seychelles Article 1 Period of application and fishing opportunities 1.
For a period of 6 years from 18 January 2005 to 17 January 2011, the fishing opportunities granted under Article 2 of the Agreement shall be as follows: (a) 40 ocean-going tuna seiners, and (b) 12 surface longliners. 2.
Paragraph 1 shall apply subject to Articles 4 and 5 of this Protocol. 3.
Under Article 4 of the Agreement, vessels flying the flag of a Member State of the European Community may engage in fishing activities in the Seychelles waters only if they are in possession of a fishing licence issued under this Protocol in accordance with the Annex hereto.
Article 2 Financial contribution - Methods of payment 1.
For the period referred to in Article 1, the financial contribution referred to in Article 6 of the Agreement shall be EUR 24 750 000. 2.
Paragraph 1 shall apply subject to Articles 4, 6 and 8 of this Protocol. 3.
The Community shall pay the financial contribution referred to in paragraph 1 at the rate of EUR 4 125 000 per year during the period of application of this Protocol. 4.
However, the total annual amount to be paid by the Community cannot exceed EUR 8 250 000. 5.
Payment shall be made no later than 30 September 2005 for the first year and no later than the anniversary date of the Protocol for the following years. 6.
Article 3 Cooperation on responsible fishing 1.
The two parties hereby undertake to promote responsible fishing in Seychelles waters based on the principle of non-discrimination between the different fleets fishing in those waters. 2.
Based on the recommendations and resolutions taken within the Indian Ocean Tuna Commission (IOTC) and the best available scientific advice and, where appropriate after a joint meeting of scientist, the two parties may consult each other within the Joint Committee provided for in Article 7 of the Agreement and, where necessary, and agree the measures to ensure the sustainable management of fisheries resources.
Article 4 Review of fishing opportunities 1.
In this case the financial contribution referred to in Article 2(1) shall be increased proportionately and pro rata temporis .
However, the total amount of the financial contribution paid by the European Community shall not be more than twice the amount indicated in Article 2(1).
In the event that the quantities caught by Community fishing vessels exceed the quantity which correspond to the total amount of financial contribution, the Parties shall consult each other as soon as possible in order to establish the amount due for the quantity caught in excess of this limit. 2.
Conversely, if the parties agree to reduce the fishing opportunities provided for in Article 1, the financial contribution shall be reduced proportionally and pro rata temporis. 3.
In the event that Community fishing vessels become interested engaging in fisheries not provided for in Article 1, the Parties shall consult each other before authorisation is granted for any such activities and, where appropriate, agree to the conditions for such fishing including effecting corresponding amendments to this Protocol and the Annex thereto. 2.
The authorisations for experimental fishing should be agreed for a maximum period of 6 months.
Article 6 Suspension and review of the payment of the financial contribution 1.
Where as a result of circumstances solely attributable to the fault or negligence of Seychelles fishing activities in Seychelles waters cannot be carried out in Seychelles waters, the European Community may, after prior consultation with the Seychelles, suspend payment of the financial contribution provided that the Community has paid in full any amounts due at the time of suspension. 2.
Article 7 Promoting responsible fishing and sustainable fisheries in Seychelles waters 1.
A share of at least 36 % of the financial contribution referred to in Article 2(1) shall be put towards defining and implementing a sectoral fisheries policy in Seychelles with a view to promote responsible fishing and sustainable fisheries in its waters.
For the purposes of paragraph 1, as soon as this Protocol enters into force and no later than three months after that date, the Community and Seychelles shall agree, within the Joint Committee provided for in Article 7 of the Agreement, on a multiannual sectoral programme and detailed implementing rules covering, in particular: (a) annual and multiannual guidelines for using the percentage of the financial contribution referred to in paragraph 1; (b) the objectives, both annual and multiannual, to be achieved with a view to introducing, over time, responsible fishing and sustainable fisheries, taking account of the priorities expressed by Seychelles in its national fisheries policy and other policies relating to or having an impact on the promotion of responsible fishing and sustainable fisheries; (c) criteria and procedures for evaluating the results obtained each year. 3.
Any dispute between the parties over the interpretation of this Protocol or its application shall be the subject of consultations between the parties within the Joint Committee provided for in Article 7 of the Agreement, in a special meeting if necessary. 2.
Article 9 Suspension of application of the Protocol on grounds of non-payment Subject to Article 3, if the European Community fails to make the payments provided for in Article 2, Seychelles may suspend the implementation of this Protocol.
Article 10 National law The activities of Community fishing vessels in Seychelles are subject to the national laws and regulations unless otherwise provided under this Protocol and the Annex thereto.
Article 12 Repeal The Protocol and Annex I, dated 17 January 2002, to the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Seychelles on fishing off Seychelles, which came into force on 28 October 1987, is hereby repealed and replaced by this Protocol and the Annex thereto.
Article 13 Entry into force 1.
It shall apply with effect from 18 January 2005.
Only eligible Community vessels may obtain a licence to fish in Seychelles waters under the Protocol setting out, for the period from 18 January 2005 to 17 January 2011, the fishing opportunities and the financial contribution provided for by the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Seychelles on fishing off Seychelles 2.
They must be in order with the authorities of the Seychelles insofar as they must have fulfilled all prior obligations arising from their fishing activities in Seychelles under fisheries agreements concluded with the Community. 3.
The name and address of that agent shall be stated in the licence application. 4.
The relevant Community authorities shall present to the SFA an application for each vessel wishing to fish under the Agreement at least 20 days before the date of commencement of the period of validity requested.
However, vessel-owners who have not submitted a licence application prior to the period of validity may do so, during the period of validity, no later than 20 days before the start of the fishing activities.
Applications shall be submitted to the competent authority of Seychelles on a form drawn up in accordance with the specimen in Appendix 1. 6.
All licence applications shall be accompanied by the following documents: - proof of payment of the fee for the period of validity of the licence; - any other documents or certificates required under the specific rules applicable to the type of vessel concerned pursuant to this Protocol. 7.
Licences for all vessels shall be issued to shipowners or their agents within 15 days of receipt of all the documents referred to in point 6 by the competent authority of Seychelles.
However, if the gross registered tonnage (GRT) of the replacement vessel is above that of the vessel to be replaced, the difference in fee shall be paid pro rata temporis . 12.
The owner of the first vessel, or the agent, shall return the cancelled licence to the competent authority of Seychelles via the European Commission Delegation responsible for the Seychelles. 13.
The European Commission Delegation responsible for the Seychelles shall be informed of the licence transfer. 14.
The fee shall be EUR 25 per tonne caught within Seychelles waters. 3.
Licences shall be issued once the following standard amounts have been paid to the competent national authorities: - EUR 15 000 for tuna seiners, equivalent to the fees due for %lt%600%gt% tonnes of tuna and tuna-like species caught within Seychelles waters per year; - EUR 3 000 for surface longliners of more than 150 GRT, equivalent to the fees due for 120 tonnes of tuna and tuna-like species caught within Seychelles waters per year; - EUR 2 250 for surface longliners of 150 GRT or less, equivalent to the fees due for 90 tonnes of tuna and tuna-like species caught within Seychelles waters per year. 4.
The SFA shall draw up a statement of fees due in respect of the previous calendar year on the basis of catch declarations by Community vessels and other information in the possession of the SFA. 5.
The statement shall be sent to the Commission before 31 March of the current year.
The Commission shall transmit it before 15 April simultaneously to shipowners and national authorities of the concerned Member States. 6.
Where the shipowners do not agree with the statement submitted by the SFA, they may consult the scientific institutes competent for verifying catch statistics such as the IRD (Institut de Recherche pour le Développement), the IEO (Instituto Español de Oceanografia) and IPIMAR (Instituto de Investigação das Pescas e do Mar), and thereafter discuss together with the Seychelles authorities to establish the final statement before 31 May of the current year.
Shipowners shall make any additional payment to the Seychelles competent authorities at the latest by 30 June of the same year at a bank account designated by the authorities of the Seychelles in accordance with Art. 2 (6) of the Protocol. 9.
CHAPTER II - FISHING ZONES To avoid any adverse effect on small-scale fisheries in Seychelles waters, fishing by Community vessels shall not be authorised in the zones defined in Seychelles legislation nor within three miles around any fish-aggregating device placed by Seychelles authorities, the geographical positions which have been communicated to the shipowners’ representatives or agents.
CHAPTER III – CATCH REPORTING ARRANGEMENTS 1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the duration of a trip by a Community vessel shall be defined as follows: - either the period elapsing between entering and leaving Seychelles waters; - or the period elapsing between entering Seychelles waters and a transhipment; - or the period elapsing between entering Seychelles waters and a landing in Seychelles. 2.
All vessels authorised to fish in Seychelles waters under the Agreement shall be obliged to communicate their catches to the competent authority of Seychelles in the following manner: 2.1.
As far as the submission of the fishing forms referred to in points 2.1 and 2.3 is concerned, the Community vessels shall: - in the case they call into Port Victoria, submit the completed forms to the Seychelles authorities within five days of arrival, or in any event before it leaves port, whichever occurs first; - in any other case, send the completed forms to the Seychelles authorities within 14 days of arrival in any port other than Victoria.
Copies of these fishing forms must also be sent to the scientific institutes referred to in section 2.6 2.3 The words “Outside Seychelles waters” shall be entered in the abovementioned logbook in respect of periods during which the vessel is not in Seychelles waters. 2.4 The forms shall be filled in legibly and signed by the master of the vessel or his representative. 3.
Each tuna seiner shall take on board during its trip in Seychelles’ waters at least two Seychelles seamen designated by the agent of the vessel, in agreement with the shipowner, from the names on a list submitted by the competent authority of Seychelles. 2.
Shipowners shall endeavour to take on board additional Seychelles seamen. 3.
The shipowner or agent shall inform the competent authority of Seychelles of the names and particulars of the Seychelles seamen taken on board the vessel concerned, mentioning their position in the crew. 4.
CHAPTER VI - OBSERVERS 1.
Vessels authorised to fish in Seychelles waters under the Agreement shall take on board observers appointed by Seychelles on the terms set out below. 1.1 Community fishing vessels shall, at the request of the Seychelles authorities, take on board one observer, and when the authorities of Seychelles think it appropriate and necessary, two observers, designated by the said authorities. 1.2 The competent authority of Seychelles shall draw up a list of vessels designated to take an observer on board and a list of the appointed observers.
The competent authority shall inform the shipowners or their agents thereof when notifying them of the name of the observer appointed to be taken on board the vessel concerned. 3.
The conditions under which observers are taken on board shall be agreed between shipowners or their agents and the authorities of Seychelles. 4.
They shall carry out the following tasks: 8.1 observe the fishing activities of the vessels; 8.2 verify the position of vessels engaged in fishing operations; 8.3 perform biological sampling in the context of scientific programmes; 8.4 note the fishing gear used; 8.5 verify the catch data for Seychelles waters recorded in the logbook; 8.6 verify the percentages of by-catches and estimate the quantity of discards; 8.7 report fishing data once a week by fax or e-mail or other means of communication, including the quantity of catches and by-catches on board taken in Seychelles waters. 9.
CHAPTER IX - MONITORING 1.
Vessel list The European Community shall keep an up-to-date list of the vessels to which a fishing licence has been issued under this Protocol.
Vessels Monitoring System: Community vessels shall be monitored, inter alia, by vessel monitoring systems, without discrimination, in accordance with the provisions set out in appendix 4. 3.
Entering and leaving Seychelles waters: 3.1 Community vessels shall notify the competent authorities of Seychelles at least (3) hours in advance of their intention to enter or leave Seychelles’ waters and every three days during their fishing activities in Seychelles waters of their catches during this period. 3.2 When notifying entry/leaving, vessels shall also communicate their position at the time of communication and the volume and species in catches kept on board.
However, the competent authorities of the Seychelles may exempt surface long liners not fitted with the appropriate communication equipment from this obligation by authorising communication by radio. 3.3 Community fishing vessels found to be fishing without having informed the competent authorities of Seychelles shall be deemed as vessels without a licence.
The sanctions referred to in Chapter X, point 1 will be applicable in such cases. 4.
Control procedures 4.1 Masters of Community fishing vessels engaged in fishing activities in Seychelles waters shall cooperate with any Seychelles official carrying out inspection and control of fishing activities. 4.2 These officials shall not remain on board for longer than is necessary for the discharge of their duties. 4.3 Once an inspection has been completed, a copy of the inspection report shall be given to the master of the vessel. 5.
Transhipment 5.1 All Community vessels wishing to tranship catches in Seychelles waters shall do so within Seychelles ports. 5.2 The owners of such vessels must notify the following information to the competent authority of Seychelles at least 24 hours in advance: - the names of the transhipping fishing vessels, - the names of the cargo vessels, - the tonnage by species to be transhipped, - the day of transhipment. 5.3 Transhipment shall be considered as an exit from ’Seychelles waters.
During the period of the suspension of a licence or during the remaining period of the validity of a licence which has been revoked, the European Commission may request another licence which would have otherwise have been applicable, for a vessel from another ship-owner, in accordance with the procedure set out in point 1.11 of chapter I. 2.
Arrest of fishing vessels The Seychelles authorities shall inform the Delegation of the Commission responsible for the Seychelles and the flag State, within 48 hours, of the arrest of any fishing vessel flying the flag of a Member State of the Community fishing under the Agreement in Seychelles fishing zone and shall transmit a brief report of the circumstances and reasons leading to such arrest.
The Seychelles authorities will transmit this information in electronic format, expressed in degrees decimal in the Wgs-84 system datum. 2.
The Seychelles authorities and the national FMCs will exchange information on their respective electronic addresses in X.25 format or where appropriate other secure communication protocol and the specifications to be used in their respective FMCs in accordance with the conditions established in points 4 and 6.
The position of the vessels will be determined with a margin of error of less than 500 metres and with a confidence interval of 99%. 4.
When a vessel fishing under the EC/Seychelles Agreement and subject to satellite tracking under the Community legislation enters into the Seychelles waters, subsequent position reports shall be communicated by the FMC of the flag State to the Monitoring Centre of Seychelles automatically, in real time, at least every hour ( frequency ).
The messages referred to in item 4 shall be transmitted electronically in X.25 format, or other secure communication protocols subject to prior agreement between the relevant FMCs.
It is prohibited for a vessel to switch off its satellite tracking device when operating in Seychelles waters. 6.
At least one global position Report every four hours shall be sufficient under such circumstances as long as the vessel stays in Seychelles waters.
Any breach of the above-mentioned obligations may render the master liable under the laws and regulations of Seychelles, provided that the vessel is operating in Seychelles waters. 8.
If the Seychelles Monitoring Centre establishes that the flag State is not transmitting the data in conformity with item 4 above, the other party shall be immediately notified.
In case of failure to comply within this delay, the two parties will settle such problems in writing or as provided for by point 13 of these provisions. 10.
All such cases will have to be notified by the SFA to the EC flag Member States at least 15 days before the review meeting. 13.
Any dispute concerning the interpretation or the application of these provisions shall be subject to consultation between the Parties within the framework of the Joint Committee provided for in Article 7 of the Agreement between the European Community and the Republic of Seychelles concerning fishing in Seychelles waters. 14.
Appendix 5 COMMUNICATION FORMAT REPORTS 1.
ENTRY REPORT FORMAT (WITHIN 3 HOURS BEFORE THE EVENT) (CONTENT) | (TRANSMISSION) | ADDRESSEE | SFA | ACTION CODE | IN | VESSEL NAME | INTERNATIONAL RADIO CALL SIGN | POSITION OF ENTRY | DATE AND HOUR (UTC) OF ENTRY | QUANTITY (Mt) OF FISH ON BOARD | YELLOWFIN | (Mt) | BIGEYE TUNA | (Mt) | SKIPJACK | (Mt) | OTHERS (SPECIFY) | (Mt) | 2.
EXIT REPORT FORMAT (WITHIN 3 HOURS BEFORE THE EVENT) (CONTENT) | (TRANSMISSION) | ADDRESSEE | SFA | ACTION CODE | OUT | VESSEL NAME | INTERNATIONAL RADIO CALL SIGN | POSITION OF ENTRY | DATE AND HOUR (UTC) OF EXIT | QUANTITY (Mt) OF FISH ON BOARD | YELLOWFIN | (Mt) | BIGEYE TUNA | (Mt) | SKIPJACK | (Mt) | OTHERS (SPECIFY) | (Mt) | 3.
WEEKLY CATCH REPORT FORMAT (EVERY THREE DAYS WHEN THE VESSEL IS OPERATING IN SEYCHELLES WATERS) (CONTENT) | (TRANSMISSION) | ADDRESSEE | SFA | ACTION CODE | WCRT | VESSEL NAME | INTERNATIONAL RADIO CALL SIGN | QUANTITY (Mt) OF FISH ON BOARD | YELLOWFIN | (Mt) | BIGEYE TUNA | (Mt) | SKIPJACK | (Mt) | OTHERS (SPECIFY) | (Mt) | NUMBER OF SETS MADE SINCE LAST REPORT | All reports shall be transmitted to the competent authority at on the following fax number or Electronic-mail address: Fax +248 225957 E-mail fmcsc@sfa.sc Seychelles Fishing Authority, P.O.
