Proposal for a Council Decision on the signature and provisional application of the Agreement between the European Community and the Republic of Maldives on certain aspects of air services /* COM/2006/0095 final */ [pic] | COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES | Brussels, 3.3.2006 COM(2006) 95 final 2006/0027 (CNS) Proposal for a COUNCIL DECISION on the signature and provisional application of the Agreement between the European Community and the Republic of Maldives on certain aspects of air services Proposal for a COUNCIL DECISION on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Community and the Republic of Maldives on certain aspects of air services (presented by the Commission) EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM CONTEXT OF THE PROPOSAL | 110 | Grounds for and objectives of the proposal Following the judgements of the Court of Justice in the so-called “Open Skies” cases, on 5 June 2003 the Council granted the Commission a mandate to open negotiations with third countries on the replacement of certain provisions in existing agreements with a Community agreement[1] (the “horizontal mandate”).
The objectives of such agreements are to give all EU air carriers non-discriminatory access to routes between the Community and third countries, and to bring bilateral air service agreements between Member States and third countries in line with Community law. | 120 | General context International aviation relations between Member States and third countries have traditionally been governed by bilateral air services agreements between Member States and third countries, the Annexes to such agreements and other related bilateral or multilateral arrangements.
This is contrary to Article 43 of the Treaty which guarantees nationals of Member States who have exercised their freedom of establishment the same treatment in the host Member State as that accorded to nationals of that Member State.
There are further issues, such as aviation fuel taxation or tariffs introduced by third country air carriers on intra-Community routes, where compliance with Community law should be ensured through amending or complementing existing provisions in bilateral air services agreements between Member States and third countries. | 130 | Existing provisions in the area of the proposal The provisions of the Agreement supersede or complement the existing provisions in the seven bilateral air services agreements between Member States and the Republic of Maldives. | 140 | Consistency with the other policies and objectives of the Union The Agreement will serve a fundamental objective of the Community external aviation policy by bringing existing bilateral air services agreements in line with Community law. | CONSULTATION OF INTERESTED PARTIES AND IMPACT ASSESSMENT | Consultation of interested parties | 211 | Consultation methods, main sectors targeted and general profile of respondents Member States as well as the industry were consulted throughout the negotiations. | 212 | Summary of responses and how they have been taken into account Comments made by Member States and the industry have been taken into account. | LEGAL ELEMENTS OF THE PROPOSAL | 305 | Summary of the proposed action In accordance with the mechanisms and directives in the Annex to the ”horizontal mandate”, the Commission has negotiated an agreement with the Republic of Maldives that replaces certain provisions in the existing bilateral air services agreements between Member States and the Republic of Maldives.
Article 2 of the Agreement replaces the traditional designation clauses with a Community designation clause, permitting all Community carriers to benefit from the right of establishment.
ARTICLE 2 Designation by a Member State 1.
the air carrier is established in the territory of the designating Member State under the Treaty establishing the European Community and has a valid Operating Licence in accordance with European Community law; ii.
the air carrier is owned, directly or through majority ownership, and it is effectively controlled by Member States and/or nationals of Member States, and/or by other states listed in Annex 3 and/or nationals of such other states. 3.
the air carrier is not owned, directly or through majority ownership, or it is not effectively controlled by Member States and/or nationals of Member States, and/or by other states listed in Annex 3 and/or nationals of such other states.
ARTICLE 3 Safety 1.
ARTICLE 4 Taxation of aviation fuel 1.
The provisions in paragraph 2 of this Article shall complement the corresponding provisions in the articles listed in Annex 2 (d). 2.
ARTICLE 6 Compatibility with competition rules 1.
ARTICLE 7 Annexes to the Agreement The Annexes to this Agreement shall form an integral part thereof.
ARTICLE 8 Revision or amendmentThe Parties may, at any time, revise or amend this Agreement by mutual consent.
ARTICLE 9 Entry into force and provisional application 1.
Agreements and other arrangements between Member States and the Republic of Maldives which, at the date of signature of this Agreement, have not yet entered into force and are not being applied provisionally are listed in Annex 1 (b).
ARTICLE 10 Termination 1.
FOR THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITY: FOR THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES: ANNEX 1 List of agreements referred to in Article 1 of this Agreement 2.
Air Transport Agreement between the Austrian Federal Government and the Government of the Republic of Maldives done at Malé on 4 February 1997, hereinafter referred to as “Maldives – Austria Agreement” in Annex 2; 4.
Agreement between the Government of the French Republic et the Government of the Republic of Maldives relating to air services done at Malé on 5 February 2001, hereinafter referred to as “Maldives-France Agreement” in Annex 2; 5.
Air Transport Agreement between the Federal Republic of Germany and the Republic of Maldives done at Malé on 10 November 1993 hereinafter referred to as “Maldives-Germany Agreement” in Annex 2; 6.
Agreement between the Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the Government of the Republic of Maldives for air services between and beyond their respective territories done at The Hague on 23 June 1994, hereinafter referred to as “Maldives – The Netherlands Agreement” in Annex 2 ; 7.
Agreement between the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Government of the Republic of Maldives done at Malé on 20 January 1996, hereinafter referred to as “Maldives–United Kingdom Agreement” in Annex 2; Modified by Memorandum of Understanding done at Malé on 7 September 2000; 8.
Agreement between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Government of the Republic of Maldives concerning air services initialled at Malé on 25 November 2004, hereinafter referred to as “Maldives–Czech Republic Agreement” in Annex 2; 10.
Agreement between the Government of the Italian Republic and the Government of the Republic of Maldives concerning air services initialled at Malé on 20 January 2000, hereinafter referred to as “Maldives–Italy Agreement” in Annex 2.
ANNEX 2 List of articles in the agreements listed in Annex 1 and referred to in Articles 2 to 6 of this Agreement 11.
Article 3 of the Maldives-Austria Agreement; 13.
Article 3 of the Maldives-France Agreement; 14.
Article 4 of the Maldives-Italy Agreement; 15.
Article 4 of the Maldives-The Netherlands Agreement; 16.
Article 4 of the Maldives-United Kingdom Agreement; 17.
Article 4 of the Maldives-Austria Agreement; 19.
Article 4 of the Maldives-France Agreement; 20.
Article 5 of the Maldives-Italy Agreement; 21.
Article 5 of the Maldives-The Netherlands Agreement; 22.
Article 5 of the Maldives-United Kingdom Agreement; 23.
Article 7 of the Maldives-France Agreement; 25.
Article 11 of the Maldives-Italy Agreement; 26.
Article 14 of the Maldives-The Netherlands Agreement; 27.
Article 7 of the Maldives-Austria Agreement; 29.
Article 9 of the Maldives-Czech Republic Agreement; 30.
Article 10 of the Maldives-France Agreement; 31.
Article 6 of the Maldives-Germany Agreement; 32.
Article 6 of the Maldives-Italy Agreement; 33.
Article 10 of the Maldives-The Netherlands Agreement; 34.
Article 8 of the Maldives-United Kingdom Agreement; 35.
Article 11 of the Maldives-Austria Agreement; 37.
Article 14 of the Maldives-France Agreement; 38.
Article 10 of the Maldives-Germany Agreement; 39.
Article 8 of the Maldives-Italy Agreement; 40.
Article 6 of the Maldives-The Netherlands Agreement; 41.
Article 7 of the Maldives-United Kingdom Agreement; 42.
Article 11 (2-5) of the Maldives-Austria Agreement; 44.
Article 14 (3-5) of the Maldives-France Agreement; 45.
Article 8 (3 and 6) of the Maldives-Italy Agreement; 46.
The Swiss Confederation (under the Agreement between the European Community and the Swiss Confederation on Air Transport) [1] Council Decision 11323/03 of 5 June 2003 (restricted document). [2] OJ C […], […], p. […]. [3] OJ C […], […], p. […]. [4] OJ C […], […], p. […]. [5] OJ C […], […], p. […].
