Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament pursuant to the second subparagraph of Article 251(2) of the EC Treaty concerning the common position of the Council on the adoption of a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a financing instrument for development cooperation /* COM/2006/0628 final - COD 2004/0220 */ [pic] | COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES | Brussels, 24.10.2006 COM(2006) 628 final 2004/0220 (COD) COMMUNICATION FROM THE COMMISSION TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT pursuant to the second subparagraph of Article 251(2) of the EC Treaty concerning the common position of the Council on the adoption of a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a financing instrument for development cooperation 2004/0220 (COD) COMMUNICATION FROM THE COMMISSION TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT pursuant to the second subparagraph of Article 251(2) of the EC Treaty concerning the common position of the Council on the adoption of a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a financing instrument for development cooperation 1.
BACKGROUND Date of transmission of the proposal to the EP and the Council (document COM(2004)629 final -2004/0220(COD), as amended COM(2004)629 final/2): | 1 October 2004 | Date of the opinion of the European Parliament, first reading: | 18 May 2006 | Date of transmission of the amended proposal: | 24 May 2006 | Date of adoption of the common position: | 16 October 2006 | 2.
A new Commission proposal for a Regulation on establishing a financing instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights was adopted by the Commission on 26 June 2006 (COM(2006)354). - A separate instrument for cooperation with industrialised countries : The Presidency proposal for a Regulation on cooperation with industrialised countries was presented in the Council COASI working group for the first time on 19 July 2006 and has been forwarded to Parliament for its opinion. - A single legal basis, Article 179 : Even though the Commission considers that a double legal basis, Article 179 and Article 181A, would guarantee legal certainty, it can accept a DCI based on the single legal basis Article 179 TEC, as a broad definition of development cooperation and the wide scope of possible action under geographic and thematic programmes are ensured in the common position and will be maintained in the final Regulation.
This is also in accordance with the so-called “centre of gravity” principle developed by the case-law of the Court of Justice. - Recitals : A number of recitals have been added to provide further explanations in relation to the content of the DCI. - Increased focus on development of objectives and principles : Article 2 sets out the general objectives of development cooperation in line with Title XX of the Treaty establishing the European Community and the European Consensus on Development.
Article 3 concerns the general principles on which the Community is founded as well as the mainstreaming of cross-cutting issues and policy coherence and reflects the most recent commitments on aid effectiveness, such as donor coordination.
The two articles present the general framework for geographic cooperation and for thematic programmes. - Articles 5- 10, geographic cooperation : These articles have been included to add policy content to geographic cooperation in response to Parliament’s request for policy setting regulations.
In particular, the horizontal Article 5 applies to all geographic articles and outlines actions in areas of cooperation which correspond to the areas for Community action in the European Consensus on Development.
The different regions/countries are: Latin America (Article 6) , Asia (Article 7 ), Central Asia (Article 8 ), Middle East (Article 9 ) and South Africa (Article 10 ).
The horizontal Article 11 defines the relationship between thematic programmes and geographic cooperation and describes the area of actions in which thematic programmes add value to the geographic cooperation.
It is accompanied by a Commission declaration which stresses the transitional character of the accompanying measures, which are due to expire in 2013 (see declaration on Article 17 in Annex). - Articles 18-33: These articles include detailed provisions with regard to programming and the allocation of funds. - Articles 33 and 34, reporting and evaluation : Evaluation and reporting will have an increased focus on social sectors and on progress made towards achieving the MDGs.
Account has been taken of the European Council decision of 16 December 2005 to maintain an intergovernmental European Development Fund (EDF), which will finance geographical cooperation with the African, Caribbean and Pacific countries (ACP), except South Africa.
It was agreed that Parliament would no longer insist on spending targets in the legal text if the Commission proposed in a declaration an enlarged benchmark of 20% for basic and secondary education and basic health in relation to country programmes covered by the DCI as a whole.
Finally, the Commission will ensure increased monitoring, evaluation and reporting on these objectives, with particular attention to social sectors and MDGs (see declaration on Article 5 in Annex). - ODA-eligibility and non-developing ENPI countries : It was agreed that Article 2 (4), should specify the percentage of the thematic programmes which would be reported as Official Development Assistance (ODA), namely 90%.
Commission Declaration concerning Article 5 DCI: The Commission reaffirms that the eradication of poverty and the pursuit of the Millennium Development Goals are at the core of the primary objective of its development assistance.
Pursuant to the request of the European Parliament, the Commission now commits to the following objectives, while stressing that they have to be pursued in the setting of the principles of aid effectiveness, in particular the partnership with recipient countries, their ownership and the complementarity with other donors, as set out in the “European Consensus on Development” adopted jointly by the Council and the representatives of the governments of the member States meeting within the Council, the European Parliament and the Commission on 20 December 2005.
