Communication from the Commission to the Council, the European Parliament, the European Economic and Social committee and the Committee of the Regions on Pandemic Influenza Preparedness and Response Planning in the European Community /* COM/2005/0607 final */ [pic] | COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES | Brussels, 28.11.2005 COM(2005) 607 final COMMUNICATION FROM THE COMMISSION TO THE COUNCIL, THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT, THE EUROPEAN ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL COMMITTEE AND THE COMMITTEE OF THE REGIONS on Pandemic Influenza Preparedness and Response Planning in the European Community TABLE OF CONTENTS 1.
Background and Aim of the Communication 4 2.
Pandemic Influenza Preparedness in the European Union 5 3.
Main Tasks for Member States, Commission and Community Agencies 7 3.1.
Prevention and containment 10 3.4.
Health system response 12 3.5.
All Member States have drawn up and strengthened their pandemic influenza preparedness in recent months with assistance from the Commission and the WHO, and further work is being carried out, backed by conclusions of the Council[1] and of the Health Ministers at their informal meeting on 20 October 2005.
The Commission has worked for a number of years to help improve the pandemic preparedness of the European Union and its Member States, as described in the Commission working paper[4] on the subject published in March 2004.
If pandemic influenza circumstances were identified first outside the EU, the recognition of the pandemic (Phase 6 of the WHO recommendations) will almost certainly be first issued by the WHO.
Moreover, joint assessment visits with the WHO and ECDC have started to take place in EU Member States and other European Countries.
Member States are also assessing, with the assistance of the Commission and the ECDC, the need and specifications for masks and other devices such as respirators. 3.
Timely communication of surveillance findings in humans and animals is essential in order to have the maximum time span to prepare for vaccine production and other public health counter-measures.
The EISS laboratory network is currently taking the function of a “Community Reference Laboratory for Human Influenza” structure which is foreseen to be set up with support through the Programme of Community action in the field of Health and Consumer protection 2007-2013[12] that the Commission proposed on 6 April 2005.
Moreover, capacity for producing vaccines is inadequate.
Finally, the Commission, through its Research Framework programs, is since 1998 co-financing projects in the field of human pandemic influenza.
In general, activities in this area should be based upon a general health emergency preparedness plan.
Making reliable information about the potential threat should be a key priority of Member States, the ECDC and the Commission.
To ensure they are in a position to do this, the Member State authorities in liaison with the Commission and the ECDC, should develop a range of ready to use media briefing materials about influenza.
Arrangements for vaccination and distribution of antiviral agents will vary from country to country depending on their national plans.
Communicating to health professionals and to the public about these arrangements will necessarily be a task for Member State authorities.
Communications - Commission to work with Member States, with the assistance of ECDC and in cooperation with the WHO, to provide accurate messages relating to the pandemic phase; - Commission regularly briefs media and the public on the situation, maintains capacity for meeting expected international information demands and evaluate and updates communications response during the various phases in the light of lessons learned.
WHO PHASE 1 (Inter-pandemic period) In this phase no new influenza virus subtypes have been detected in humans.
An influenza virus subtype that has caused human infection may be present in animals.
The main public health goal is strengthen influenza pandemic preparedness at the global, regional, national and sub-national levels.
This scenario includes no novel avian influenza virus detected in animals in Europe, and no human case.
WHO PHASE 2 (Inter-pandemic period) No new influenza virus subtypes have been detected in humans.
Responsibilities and actions In phase 1 and 2 strengthening influenza pandemic preparedness at national and international levels is of pivotal importance in preparing the response in the event of a pandemic.
WHO PHASE 3 (Pandemic alert period) Human infection(s) with a new subtype, but no human to human spread, or at most, rare instances of spread to a close contact.
Responsibilities and actions 4.1.1.
Commission Planning and coordination - Coordinate guidance to national authorities in reviewing and updating national contingency plans, based on evolving scientific information about the human case(s); - Review Commission internal contingency plan.
Communications - Coordinate sharing of background information regarding the effectiveness of recommended measures; - Update other partners, stakeholders and the public on the global epidemiological situation and disease characteristics; - Coordinate sharing of information regarding the effectiveness of recommended measures with the assistance of the ECDC. 4.1.2.
Communications - Work with other Member States and the Commission to provide accurate messages; - Share with the other Member States and the Commission information regarding the effectiveness of recommended measures; - Regularly update other partners, stakeholders and the public on the global epidemiological situation and disease characteristics.
WHO PHASE 4 (Pandemic alert period) Small cluster(s) with limited human-to-human transmission but spread is highly localized, suggesting that the virus is not well adapted to humans.
There are no human cases in EU but a heightened risk of importation or appearance of isolated cases in Member States and increased risk of transmission from them.
Responsibilities and actions 4.1.4.
Commission Monitoring and assessment - In consultation with the ECDC, coordinate strategies of national authorities to enhance surveillance in risk groups; - In consultation with the ECDC, coordinate with national authorities the monitoring of measures on containment and control.
Prevention and containment Public health interventions - Coordinate implementation of recommended additional containment measures.
Health system response - Encourage national authorities to reassess guidelines for clinical management and infection control in health care (including long-term care facilities); - Encourage national authorities to prepare for the next phase, including a mobilization plan for health-care workers.
Communications - With the assistance of the ECDC, promote sharing of templates for general health education materials. 4.1.5.
ECDC Monitoring and assessment - Monitor the risk for the EU with special emphasis on the potential for importation of cases from affected areas - In consultation with the Commission, coordinate strategies of national authorities to enhance surveillance in risk groups; - Facilitate reporting of human-to-human transmission of infection with a new influenza virus strain by national authorities using the EWRS; - Provide appropriate support to national authorities in investigating cases and contacts, enhancing disease surveillance to identify additional cases, and the epidemiological circumstances of infection (e.g.
Prevention and containment Public health interventions - Consult the other Member States and the Commission on any additional containment measures planned.
In this phase there is a need to maximize efforts to contain or delay spread, to possibly avert a pandemic, and to gain time to implement pandemic response measures.
Responsibilities and actions 4.1.7.
ECDC Monitoring and assessment: - Monitor the risk for the European Union with special emphasis on the potential for importation of cases from affected areas; - Promote intensification of disease surveillance in countries not yet affected, to the maximum extent possible; - Review and adjust case-definition and guidelines if needed; - Accelerate and enhance situation monitoring and assessment activities started in pandemic phase 4, to a maximum; - Promote monitoring of health-care needs and facilities in countries at risk; - Promote mathematical modelling to forecast trends for the first pandemic wave (affected regions, risk groups, health-care resource needs, impact, etc.).
Health system response - Implement guidelines for clinical management and infection control in health care (including long-term care facilities); - Share contingency measures for the next phase, especially as regards nationals of other Member States and plans for assisting other EU nationals in third countries, including protection in situ and repatriation.
Several outbreaks in at least one country outside EU with sustained human-to-human transmission, and spread to other countries.
Commission Planning and coordination - Establish and activate pandemic influenza information and coordination centre; - Interact with organisations and agencies to coordinate interventions at EU and international level and coordinate Member State positions; - Coordinate ongoing development of guidelines; - Coordinate evaluation of measures and assessment of their impact.
ECDC Monitoring and assessment - Monitor the spread of disease, risk groups, case fatality rate and transmission rate, and coordinate adjustment of case definitions; - Coordinate the clinical, microbiological and epidemiological characterisation of the pandemic strain in the first reported clusters in the EU in order to determine the transmission rate, case fatality ratio (attributable mortality) and affected age groups. - Coordinate monitoring for possible changes in epidemiological, clinical and virological aspects of infection, including antiviral drug resistance; - Coordinate national reporting of estimated national impact and assist global situation monitoring (global spread, national trends); - Encourage preparation of forecasts for the next wave (new affected regions, risk groups, health care resources, etc.); - Review lessons learnt and make adjustments in surveillance guidelines and tools for countries.
Member States should have a plan in place to ensure the quick revitalization of the country after a pandemic.
Member States should ensure that essential services develop recovery plans for their services or organisation.
Close co-operation will continue under the auspices of the Commission between human and animal health authorities and experts at national and European level in the area of influenza virus infections.
The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) can provide a structured and systematic approach to the surveillance and control of influenza and other communicable diseases that might affect the people of the European Union.
Many actions have already been undertaken at national and at EU level to ensure that measures in the various sectors of policy are effective and coordinated.
ANNEX 3: EU supported research related to human pandemic influenza 5th Framework Programme (1998-2002) - FLUPAN - Preparing for an influenza pandemic - NOVAFLU - Novel vaccination strategies and vaccine formulations for epidemic and pandemic influenza control 6th Framework Programme (2002-2006) - VIRGIL - European vigilance network for the management of antiviral drug resistance” - SARS/FLU VACCINE - FLUVACC - Live attenuated replication-defective influenza vaccine 7th Framework Programme (2007-2013) On 21 September 2005 the European Commission proposed a Council decision concerning the Specific Programmes implementing the Seventh Framework Programme (2007-2013) of the European Community for research, technological development and demonstration activities including a proposal of a specific programme that has as heading ‘Cooperation’ and includes a particular section on health, which is consequently applicable to the field of flu.
