At its 414th plenary session of 9 and 10 February 2005 (meeting of 10 February), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 80 votes, with no votes against and three abstentions. 1.
This is the only way to avert the danger of such regions becoming more isolated/marginalised and to help them to be integrated into the Community of which they are part on fair conditions. 1.1.9 In its opinion on the future of upland areas in the EU [1], the EESC argued that the first step towards instilling a common vision was to enshrine the special position of these areas within the Treaties, as had already been done in Articles 158 and 299 of the Treaty of Amsterdam.
The small size of domestic markets, the continuing low level of qualifications and the lack of a tradition of establishing firms make these businesses particularly vulnerable; - the breakdown of the island population is highly unbalanced among the three geographical areas: 95 % of this population is concentrated on the Mediterranean islands and only 5 % on the Atlantic and northern islands.
On top of the costs for long journeys there are also among other things higher costs for heating. 1.5 Questions linked with transport and transport costs, either in per capita or in absolute terms 1.5.1 In its Resolution of 12 February 2003 on the White Paper on transport policy, the European Parliament highlighted the need for transport policy to contribute to economic and social cohesion and take into account the specific nature of outlying, island and mountain regions and regions with low population density and stressed that their particular needs must also be taken into account.
The absence of a critical mass (people, infrastructure, services, etc.) in many of these regions, and the lack of effective levels of organisation among the economic and social partners are restraining factors on development and competitiveness. 1.14 Community and national policies for minimising permanent structural problems 1.14.1 The Structural Funds have covered a significant part of the population of these regions (in the case of islands, more than 95 %), as they are eligible under Objectives 1 and 2. 1.14.2 A number of programmes have been implemented with the support of Community and national policies in order to bring about sustainable development in these regions, based on the exploitation of their specific advantages.
It is legitimate that priority be given to those regions whose levels of development rank among the lowest in the EU and which suffer from the most acute social problems. 1.17.2 Within the Structural Fund envelope earmarked for Objective 1 post 2006, constraints linked to permanent handicaps should, in proportion to their respective intensities, be regarded as determining factors in the distribution criteria.
It is therefore crucial for these regions that the various aid systems controlled by the Community take account of the additional costs and constraints linked to their specific features. 1.18.2 The case made by the representatives of such regions for a more flexible framework is based on the fact that the aid designed to offset the additional costs linked to their situation, far from distorting the market, contributes to rebalancing it. 1.18.3 EU legislation on aid, in particular state regional aid and agricultural aid, therefore needs to be revised.
In the field of transport, energy and telecommunications, the intervention of the Structural Funds should be strengthened by the effective application of Article 154 of the Treaty in relation to the trans-European networks, with appropriate financial resources. 2.6.2.5 The inhabitants of regions with permanent handicaps should be able to gain access to consumer goods or services at socially acceptable prices. 2.6.2.6 This situation can, in certain cases, be remedied by measures designed to reduce consumer prices, or encourage certain service providers to set up in the most isolated and least populated areas. 2.6.2.7 The required resources are interventionist measures of a social nature, such as: - direct aid for certain commercial activities or services providers; - special fares for residents on sea or air transport; - the existence of high-quality public services.
The intensity of some of these measures may be proportional to the isolation of the communities concerned and also inversely proportional to the size of their market. 2.6.2.8 Extensive use of the provisions of Articles 73 (public services in terms of transport), 86(2) (on undertakings entrusted with the operation of services of general economic interest) and 87(2) (in relation to aid having a social character, granted to individual consumers) of the TEC could, in certain cases, serve as a basis for such provisions. 2.6.3 Economic goals: the economic goals of a European policy for regions with permanent handicaps should contribute to integrating the islands in the single market while taking account of their social and environmental fragility.
Brussels, 10 February 2005.
