The Additional Protocol to the Convention of 18 December 1997, which allows transfer without the person’s consent, subject to certain conditions, has not been ratified by all the Member States.
It should be established that there is a basic duty on the executing State to take charge of those of its nationals and those persons permanently legally resident in its territory who have been given a final custodial sentence or a detention order in another Member State, irrespective of their consent, unless there are specific reasons for refusal. (6) The transfer of sentenced persons to the State of nationality, the State of legal residence or the State with which the persons have other close links to serve their sentence helps with their social rehabilitation. (7) This Framework Decision is intended to respect fundamental rights and to observe the principles recognised by Article 6 of the Treaty and reflected by the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, in particular Chapter VI thereof.
Article 2 Determination of the competent authorities 1.
Each Member State shall inform the General Secretariat of the Council which authority or authorities, under its national law, are competent in accordance with this Framework Decision, when that Member State is the issuing State or the executing State. 2.
Article 3 Purpose 1.
This Framework Decision shall not have the effect of modifying the obligation to respect fundamental rights and fundamental legal principles as enshrined in Article 6 of the Treaty on European Union.
Article 4 Forwarding of the European enforcement order 1.
Article 5 Opinion and notification of the sentenced person 1.
Article 6 Form and content of the European enforcement order 1.
Article 7 Scope 1.
The following offences, if they are punishable in the issuing State by a custodial sentence or a detention order for a maximum period of at least three years, and as they are defined by the law of the issuing State, shall, under the terms of this Framework Decision and without verification of the double criminality of the act, give rise to recognition and enforcement of a European enforcement order: - participation in a criminal organisation, - terrorism, - trafficking in human beings, - sexual exploitation of children and child pornography, - illicit trafficking in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, - illicit trafficking in weapons, munitions and explosives, - corruption, - fraud, including that affecting the financial interests of the European Communities within the meaning of the Convention of 26 July 1995 on the protection of the European Communities’ financial interests [5], - laundering of the proceeds of crime, - counterfeiting currency, including of the euro, - computer-related crime, - environmental crime, including illicit trafficking in endangered animal species and in endangered plant species and varieties, - facilitation of unauthorised entry and residence, - murder, grievous bodily injury, - illicit trade in human organs and tissue, - kidnapping, illegal restraint and hostage-taking, - racism and xenophobia, - organised or armed robbery, - illicit trafficking in cultural goods, including antiques and works of art, - swindling, - racketeering and extortion, - counterfeiting and piracy of products, - forgery of administrative documents and trafficking therein, - forgery of means of payment, - illicit trafficking in hormonal substances and other growth promoters, - illicit trafficking in nuclear or radioactive materials, - trafficking in stolen vehicles, - rape, - arson, - crimes within the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court, - unlawful seizure of aircraft/ships, - sabotage. 2.
Article 8 Recognition and enforcement of a European enforcement order 1.
The competent authority of the executing State shall recognise a European enforcement order which has been forwarded in accordance with Article 4 without any further formality being required, and shall forthwith take all the necessary measures for its enforcement, unless the competent authority decides to invoke one of the grounds for non-recognition and non-enforcement provided for in Article 9. 2.
Article 9 Grounds for non-recognition and non-enforcement 1.
Article 10 Decision on the European enforcement order and time limits 1.
Article 11 Transfer of persons 1.
Article 13 Law governing enforcement 1.
The authorities of the executing State alone shall, subject to paragraphs 2 and 3, be competent to decide on the procedures for enforcement and to determine all the measures relating thereto, including the grounds for conditional release. 2.
For the situations mentioned in Article 5 of that Framework Decision, the executing State shall give the guarantees provided for therein.
Article 15 Amnesty, pardon, review of sentence 1.
Article 16 Information from the issuing State 1.
Article 18 Consequences of the transfer of the sentenced person 1.
Article 19 Costs Costs resulting from the application of this Framework Decision shall be borne by the executing State, except for those arising exclusively in the sovereign territory of the issuing State.
Article 20 Relationship with other agreements and arrangements Member States may continue to apply bilateral or multilateral agreements or arrangements in force when this Framework Decision was adopted, insofar as they allow the objectives of this Framework Decision to be extended or enlarged and help to simplify or facilitate further the procedures for the enforcement of sentences.
Article 21 Implementation 1.
Article 22 Entry into force This Framework Decision shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
