China is becoming an increasingly important partner for the European Union - and vice versa - both economically and politically.
China’s accession in December 2001 to the World Trade Organisation was significant and will pave the way for further market opening and foreign direct investment.
The 2008 Olympic Games in Beijing and the 2010 World Expo in Shanghai will provide major impetus to the restructuring and investments in the aviation sector to allow China to use these events to demonstrate an efficient and modern image to the world.
However, China is facing significant challenges in this respect, notably in matching continued safety developments with the spectacular growth rates in air traffic. 1.3 China is taking a gradual and selective yet determined approach to market opening in civil aviation.
As a consequence of the “open skies” judgements of the European Court of Justice on 5 November 2002, the bilateral agreements between Member States and China are unsustainable and need to be amended.
Positive exploratory contacts between the General Administration of Civil Aviation of China (CAAC) and the services of the European Commission were initiated in May 2004, which may serve as a good basis for entering into formal negotiations with China. 2.
THE GROWING IMPORTANCE OF EU-CHINA POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION 2.1 In recent years, the Chinese economy has performed spectacularly well with economic growth rates above 7% in 14 consecutive years.
CHINA’S GROWING IMPORTANCE IN INTERNATIONAL AVIATION – A MARKET PROFILE China – a strategic civil aviation market in rapid growth 3.1 Over the past decade, the Chinese air traffic market has been among the fastest growing in the world.
The average annual growth rate of domestic and international air traffic in China has been around 16% between 1958 and 2002.
Total number of air traffic passengers was expected to exceed 100 million in 2004 while cargo was forecasted to reach 2.5 million tons.
Of a total number of weekly frequencies between the EU and China of 141 in April 2004, Air China had a share of 28% while Lufthansa had a share of 17% and Air France 15%.
Looking forward 3.3 While future growth rates in Chinese air passenger traffic may be less spectacular than in recent years, they will still be impressive.
Chinese outbound tourism amounted to 20 million tourists in 2003 (+22% year-on-year) overtaking Japan to become Asia’s largest source of tourists.
It is estimated that by 2020 the number of Chinese outbound travellers will have reached 100 million.
To facilitate and attract visits of Chinese tourist groups to Europe, the Community and the Chinese government signed in February 2004 a Memorandum of Understanding under which the Community will enjoy an “Approved Destination Status” (ADS).
The CAAC has announced that it will progressively open mainland China air traffic rights to foreign carriers including more cabotage rights and encouragement of more foreign carriers to fly to China and more mainland carriers to serve foreign cities. 4.6 CAAC intends to liberalise the Chinese aviation market in three phases which by 2010 should have led to an opening of 70-80% of the air transport industry.
As a result of its new policy, CAAC has signed a series of increasingly liberal air services arrangements with third countries including Singapore, Thailand, Australia and most recently the US.
Often the cargo services are leading the way in liberalisation but are followed by similar moves in passenger traffic. 4.7 China is also liberalising rules for foreign investment in civil aviation.
Infrastructure - airports, aircraft and air traffic management 4.8 In order to meet the growing demand for air transport services in China, massive investments in air transport infrastructure are required both in airports, aircrafts, air traffic management technology and supporting facilities.
Since 1990, China has built more than 25 new airports and had in 2002 a total of 160 civilian airports.
The number of airports is expected to increase to 260 by 2015.
Such co-operation must address and resolve the legal issues in relation to existing bilateral agreements between China and Member States. 6.2 However, an agreement with China should not be limited to agreeing on Community designation clauses.
The Commission will work closely together with Member States and all relevant stakeholders in further developing and achieving the objectives set out in the proposed Council Decision. [1] The General Administration of Civil Aviation of China (CAAC), 2004 [2] Source: OAG schedules [3] “Asia/Pacific Air Traffic – Growth and Constraints”, Air Transport Action Group (ATAG), 2001 [4] COM(2004)74, “A Community aviation policy towards its neighbours”, 9 February 2004. [5] COM(2001)370
