THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION’S CONTRIBUTION TO THE OVERALL EU COMMITMENT TO KOSOVO The European Union has been committed to Kosovo since the outset of the 1999 conflict, with a vast financial and political effort to build lasting peace and democracy.
The Cologne European Council of June 1999 emphasised the EU’s commitment to taking a leading role in the reconstruction of Kosovo.
Immediately after the end of the conflict, the European Commission provided € 378 million in emergency humanitarian aid.
The EU also committed itself to playing a part in the United Nations Interim Administration in Kosovo (UNMIK), establishing its Pillar IV and contributing over € 100 million to its administrative expenditure to date.
The European Partnership for Kosovo adopted in June 2004[3] formulates actions to achieve implementation of the Standards.
In its annual reports on the Stabilisation and Association Process in autumn 2005, the Commission will assess Kosovo’s progress and revise the recommendations in the European Partnership.
According to 2003 data from the Statistical Office of Kosovo, the unemployment rate is around 50%.
Support the Ministry of Finance and Economy to build capacity in fiscal and revenue policy-making and improve tax collection, notably of VAT; - continue providing assistance for the development of a sustainable and coherent statistical system with the support of EUROSTAT, notably by building the capacity of the Statistical Office of Kosovo to develop national accounts.
Regional initiatives such as the implementation of the MoU on the Development of the South East Europe Core Regional Transport Network, to which UNMIK is a signatory on behalf of Kosovo, include transport development in Kosovo.
The electronic communications sector plays an important part in general economic development.
Supporting the United Nations Mission in Kosovo The European Union will continue its strong political and financial support to UNMIK, notably through its funding of Pillar IV.
This assistance will depend on a needs assessment based on a reliable Medium Term Expenditure Framework and on progress in structural reforms.
The Provisional Government should take the lead in dialogue with donors to ensure the involvement of beneficiary partners and institutions, as well as due consideration of absorption capacities.
The riots of March 2004 should never be repeated.
The ‘direct dialogue’ was launched in October 2003, and the first meeting of the Working Groups on Energy and on Missing Persons took place in early March 2004.
