At its 419th plenary session, held on 13 and 14 July 2005 (meeting of 13 July 2005), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 57 votes to none with 3 abstentions. 1.
Introduction 1.1 Prospects opened up by the Research Fund for Coal and Steel 1.1.1 ECSC collaborative research ended with the expiry of the ECSC Treaty on 23 July 2002.
As far as the coal aspect is concerned, the level of funding allocated by the RFCS budget over the three last years has been of the order of EUR 16.13 million in 2003, 15.27 million in 2004 and 16.13 million for 2005. 1.2.2 A significant reduction in the total amount of subsidies should be noted, since they represented about EUR 55 to 56 million for steel and EUR 28 to 31 million for coal at the end of the 1990s and into the beginning of the present decade.
Indeed, the new Member States will make their contribution as before, but gradually and only between 2006 and 2009.
Evaluation [1] shows average benefit factors ranging from 7 to 25.
The experts of the technical groups, for example, meet these conditions but the Commission and the steel industry groups still need to optimise the practical conditions for these experts' participation. 1.3.3 For steel, nine technical groups henceforth replace the previous 17 executive committees as regards the monitoring of projects and the transfer of technological information, with a substantial reduction in the number of the participating experts.
A mid-term assessment of the new RFCS projects will be carried out in spring 2005 and will provide more information in this respect. 1.3.4 Regarding coal, three technical groups (TGs) have begun to replace the five Executive Committees operating under the ECSC Coal Research programme.
Their fields of interest are mining technologies (TG1), conversion technologies (TG2) and clean coal technologies (TG3), respectively. 1.3.5 The level of involvement of companies and institutions based in the 10 Accession States in the year 2000 ECSC proposals was almost nil, as opposed to 4.2 % and 14.16 % for steel and coal proposals respectively at the time of the 2004 RFCS call.
The total number of representatives from the 10 new Member States on the various committees and advisory and technical groups is 25 (11 COSCO, 5 SAG, 4 CAG, 3 steel TGs and 2 coal TGs). 2.
Steel 2.1 General situation in the steel sector In 2004 the buoyant global economy provided a significant boost to the European economy but domestic demand failed to pick up substantially.
The prospects for 2005 largely depend on the performance of the world economy, since the euro-zone is very much dependent on final demand generated elsewhere.
For example, 116 proposals were submitted in 2002, 143 in 2003 and 173 in 2004.
This recent tendency has been observed at a time when the new Member States are still participating relatively little in the RFCS programme. 2.2.2 The Steel Technology Platform: the right framework for a long-term vision of steel research The steel industry has to confront many challenges in different areas such as the need for competitiveness arising from globalisation; the rapid growth of new, large producers (at present China); environmental rules which concern both processes and products; the requirements of customers and shareholders; health and safety at work and training.
The ambition of the steel industry is to maintain and even reinforce a global leadership, which is both sustainable and competitive.
To meet this ambition, a group of personalities decided to launch a determined, long-term and structured R&amp;D action, in the framework of a Steel Technology Platform.
In this respect: - A large European network (Top Industrial Managers for Europe (TIME), 47 universities from all 25 Member States), involved in education, training, communication and dissemination activities has been identified among the stakeholders of the EU Steel Technology Platform.
A survey of the steps taken by European steel producers in terms of change management and progression towards a "knowledge organisation", leading to exchanges of best practices, should significantly contribute to such an optimisation process. 2.2.2.9 The vision of the future described in the Strategic Research Agenda adopted by the Steering Committee of the Platform on 15 December 2004 sketches out the prospects of steel research for the coming years and decades. 2.2.2.10 A second version of the Strategic Research Agenda will set priorities and make proposals with regard to the placing of themes and research fields in the various European programmes: RFCS, RDFP (Framework programme, FP), Eureka, national and regional programmes, etc.
It is an essential feedstock fuel for iron and steel making, while in the electricity sector with a share of 32 %, it remains a fuel of choice by virtue of its security of supply and competitiveness. 3.1.2 European coal mining is a highly developed sector of industry.
The FP5–funded Network on European Sustainable Mineral Industries (NESMI), comprising about 100 stakeholders in European mining industry and science, exists since 2002.
For fossil-fuel-fired power plants, a percentage of approximately 60 % is forecast, with coal alone contributing 23 %.
With these it would be possible to achieve efficiencies of substantially higher than 50 %.
Optimised power-plant designs with maximum possible efficiencies form the basic technologies with a view, in particular, to the long-term objective of a CO2-free power plant. 3.4.7 The zero-CO2 power station is a long-term vision.
The EESC supports the establishment of European Technology Platforms in which both the steel and the coal sectors can find the appropriate environment for developing and coordinating their RTD policies and activities utilising all available European resources. 4.2 The EESC is strongly in favour of a rapid and substantial integration of enterprises, research centres and universities of the new Member States in the RFSC research programme and in the activities related to the relevant European Technology Platforms for the steel and coal sectors. 4.3 Steel In the coming decades, the EESC foresees an essential need in the steel industry for collaborative research in order to maintain and even reinforce that industry's current global leadership position; a position that is both sustainable and competitive.
In the future the steel industry will have to address, in particular, the need for more environment-friendly products and new steel solutions. 4.3.1 The EESC identifies the following main issues: - Protecting the environment (reduction of CO2 emissions in particular) and increasing energy efficiency constitute both major transversal issues in the RTD programmes.
Brussels, 13 July 2005.
The President of the European Economic and Social Committee Anne-Marie Sigmund [1] Performed in 1995 by Geoffrey Walton Practice and Smith Vincent and in 1996 by the Coal Research Committee of DG XVII [2] The World Energy Council has predicted a rapidly growing total investment volume of EUR 3,000 billion over the next 25 years for the construction and equipping of mines. --------------------------------------------------
