The introduction of the principle of availability reflects a more general trend to facilitate the exchange of law enforcement information (see for instance the so called Prüm Convention [2] as has been signed by seven Member States and the Swedish proposal for a Framework Decision on simplifying the exchange of information and intelligence between law enforcement agencies [3]).
The very recent approval by the European Parliament of a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the retention of communication data [4] can be viewed in the same perspective.
These developments require the adoption of a legal instrument to guarantee an effective protection of personal data within all the Member States of the European Union, based on common standards. 4.
In the second place, the Council of Europe Convention No 108 [5] by which all the Member States are bound does not provide for the necessary preciseness in the protection as has been recognised already at the time of the adoption of Directive 95/46/EC.
In the third place, neither of these two legal instruments takes into account the specific characteristics of the exchange of data by police and judicial authorities [6].
One has to bear in mind that the personal data concerned are quite often of a sensitive nature and have been obtained by police and judicial authorities as a result of an investigation on persons.
Moreover, a high level of data protection can assure the accuracy and reliability of personal data.
This new framework should not only respect the principles of data protection as laid down in Directive 95/46/EC — it is important to guarantee the consistency of the data protection within the European Union — but also provide for an additional set of rules taking into account the specific nature of the area of law enforcement [7].
The EDPS welcomes the fact that the present proposal takes into account these starting points: it respects the principles of data protection as laid down in Directive 95/46/EC and it provides for an additional set of rules. 10.
On the one hand the data concerned are quite often of a very sensitive nature (see point 6 of this opinion) and, on the other hand, there is a strong pressure to access these data, in view of an effective performance by law enforcement, which can include the protection of the life and the physical security of persons.
The context of Title VI of the Treaty on the European Union 11.
The intervention of the European legislator is bound by clear limitations: limitations of the legislative powers of the Union to the subjects mentioned in Articles 30 and 31, limitations as to the legislative procedure which does not include the full participation of the European Parliament, and limitations as to the judicial control since the competences of the European Court of Justice under Article 35 TEU are incomplete.
THE CONTEXT: EXCHANGE OF INFORMATION UNDER THE AVAILABILITY PRINCIPLE, DATA RETENTION AND THE SPECIFIC FRAMEWORKS OF SIS II AND VIS II.1 The principle of availability 12.
The proposal is closely linked to the proposal for a Council Framework Decision on the exchange of information under the principle of availability (COM(2005) 490 final).
This task has been explicitly stated in Article 30 (1)(b) TEU and is a consequence of the obligation for the Union to respect fundamental rights (Article 6 TEU).
Moreover: - Article 1 (2) of the present proposal explicitly states that Member States may no longer restrict or prohibit the cross-border flow of information for reasons of protection of personal data. - The proposal for a Council Framework Decision on the exchange of information under the principle of availability contains several references to the present proposal. 14.
The EDPS points out that a Council Framework Decision on the exchange of information under the principle of availability should only be adopted under the condition that a Framework Decision on the protection of personal data is adopted as well.
II.2 Data retention 16.
On 26 September 2005, the EDPS presented his opinion on the proposal for a Directive on the retention of communication data [8].
In this opinion he pointed out some important shortcomings of the proposal and suggested adding to the directive specific provisions on access to the traffic and location data by the competent authorities and on the further use of the data, as well as adding further additional safeguards for data protection.
The text of the Directive as adopted by the European Parliament and the Council contains a limited — but by no means sufficient — provision on data protection and data security and contains an even more insufficient provision on access, referring the issuing of measures on the access to the retained data to national law, subject to relevant provisions of European Union law or public international law. 17.
Contrary to what is foreseen for the SIS II and the VIS-systems (see II.3 of this opinion), this subject-matter is left to the discretion of the national legislator.
II.3 Processing in the framework of SIS II and VIS 19.
In his opinion of 19 October 2005 on the proposals for a Second Generation Schengen Information System (SIS-II) [9], the EDPS has underlined some elements regarding simultaneous application of general rules (lex generalis and more specific rules (lex specialis) on data protection.
The present proposal can be seen as a lex generalis, replacing Convention 108 in the framework of the third pillar [10]. 21.
The EDPS underlines in this context that the proposal also provides for a general framework for data protection for specific instruments like the third pillar part of the SIS II and the access by law enforcement to the Visa Information System. [11] III.
It follows from these provisions that the proposed Framework Decision has two main characteristics: it sets common standards and it applies to all processing for the purpose of enforcement of criminal law, even if the data concerned have not been transmitted or made available by competent authorities of other Member States. 24.
It should be the ambition of the present proposal to establish a framework for data protection that fully complements the already existing legal framework in the first pillar.
Common standards 25.
Moreover, it provides for common standards specifying these principles, in view of their application in this area.
Leaving such a broad discretionary power to keep the data for longer than necessary for the envisaged purpose would not only be incompatible with the fundamental right to data protection, but would also harm the basic need for harmonisation of the protection of personal data processed in the framework of police and judicial co-operation in criminal matters. 28.
Whenever any other specific legal instrument under Title VI of the EU Treaty provides for more precise conditions or restrictions for the processing of or access to data, this more specific legislation should apply as a lex specialis.
Article 17 of this proposal provides for derogations to Articles 12, 13, 14 and 15 when specific legislation under Title VI lays down specific conditions for the transmission of data.
According to the EDPS, Article 17 should: - be drafted in a more general way: if there is a more specific legislation governing whatever aspect of data processing (not only transmission of data), the specific legislation applies. - contain the safeguard that derogations may not lower the level of protection.
It is essential for the achievement of its objective that the Framework Decision covers all police and judicial data, even if they are not transmitted or made available by competent authorities of other Member States. 32.
This is all the more important since any limitation to data that are transmitted or made available to competent authorities in other Member States would make the field of application of the framework decision particularly unsure and uncertain, which would be contrary to its essential objective [12].
Finally, the EDPS notes that the proposal does not apply to: - processing in the framework of the second pillar of the EU-Treaty (common foreign and security policy). - processing of data by intelligence services and the access by these services to these data when processed by competent authorities or other parties (this follows from Article 33 TEU).
In these areas, national law is to provide adequate protection of data subjects.
III.2 The legal basis 34.
The recitals of the proposal for a Council Framework Decision on the exchange of information under the principle of availability mention a specific legal basis, namely Article 30 (1)(b).
Although it is not the task of the EDPS as an advisor on legislation of the European Union to choose the legal basis of a proposal, it is useful to suppose that also the present proposal could be based on Article 30 (1)(b).
The EDPS shares the view that the Articles 30 (1)(b) and 31 (1)(c) TEU provide for a legal basis for rules on data protection not limited to the protection of personal data that are actually exchanged between the competent authorities of the Member States but also applicable to domestic situations.
In particular: - Article 30 (1)(b) that can serve as a legal basis for rules on the collection, storage, processing, analysis and exchange of relevant information is not limited to information that has been made available or transmitted to other Member States.
The only limitation imposed by Article 30 (1)(b) lies in the relevance of the information to police cooperation. - As far as judicial cooperation is concerned, Article 31 (1)(c) is even more explicit, since common action shall include %quot%ensuring compatibility in rules applicable in the Member States, as may be necessary to improve such cooperation%quot%. - It follows from the Pupino Case [14], that the Court of Justice applies principles of Community law on third pillar matters.
If, however, data could be transmitted to third countries without the protection of the data subject being assured, this would seriously damage the protection envisaged by the present proposal within the territory of the European Union for the reasons mentioned in Section III.4 of this opinion.
Summarized, the applicability of common rules on data protection on personal data exchanged by competent authorities of Member States with authorities of third countries and international organisations is necessary for the effectiveness of the common rules on the protection of personal data between the competent authorities of the Member States and is thus necessary to improve the cooperation between the Member States.
There is a good reason for dealing with police data and data of judicial authorities, processed for the purposes of law enforcement, in the same proposal.
As to the supervision on the data processing however, a different approach is needed.
Article 30 of the proposal enumerates the tasks of the supervisory authorities.
The EDPS recommends clarifying in the proposal that the supervisory authorities do not monitor the data processing by judicial authorities as far as they are acting in their judicial capacities. [15] Processing by Europol and Eurojust (and the Customs Information System) 44.
According to Article 3 (2) of the proposal, the Framework Decision shall not apply to the processing of personal data by Europol, Eurojust and the Customs Information System [16]. 45.
Strictly speaking this provision is superfluous, in any case in so far as it relates to Europol and Eurojust.
As to substance, the text of Article 3 (2) leads to the following observations: - the present proposal provides for a general framework, that should in principle be applicable to all situations falling within the third pillar.
Consistency of the legal framework for data protection is in itself an element that enhances the effectiveness of data protection. - at this moment, Europol and Eurojust have well defined data protection systems at their disposal, including a system of supervision.
For this reason, there is no immediate urgency to adapt the applicable rules to the text of this proposal. - in the longer term, however, the rules on data protection applicable to Europol and Eurojust should be made fully consistent with the present framework decision. - this is even more important since the present proposal for a framework decision -apart from its Chapter III — applies to the collection and processing of personal data that are transmitted to Europol and Eurojust by the Member States.
III.4 Structure of the proposal 47.
As a result, some important provisions for the protection of personal data would not apply to personal data if they are not exchanged between Member States.
According to the EDPS, the additional rules in Chapter II should offer additional protection to the data subjects related to the specific context of the third pillar (police and judicial information).
In other words: these additional rules may not lead to a lower level of protection. 52.
The EDPS recommends transferring those provisions to Chapter II.
This is even more important since Chapter III contains important provisions in view of a high level of protection of the data subject in the context of law enforcement (see IV.1 of this opinion).
ANALYSIS OF THE ELEMENTS OF THE PROPOSAL IV.1 Starting points of the analysis 54.
Those provisions are consistent with the EU data protection legal framework and satisfactory to provide adequate data protection safeguards in the third pillar. 56.
However, the EDPS notes that some provisions currently contained in Chapter III of the proposal — on specific points of processing and generally speaking (see point 48 of this opinion) applicable only to data exchanged with other Member states — integrate general and essential principles of EU data protection law.
Therefore, those provisions in Chapter III should be moved to Chapter II and made applicable to all processing of data by law enforcement authorities.
This is the case of the provisions concerning the verification of data quality (Article 9 (1) and (6)) and regulating further processing of personal data (Article 11(1)). 57.
This recommendation concerns: - transmission of data to private parties and to non law enforcement authorities (letters a) and b) of Articles 13 and 14), and - transfers to third countries or international bodies (Article 15, except letter c)). 58.
According to the EDPS, these additional safeguards should be provided in relation to automated individual decisions, personal data received from third countries, access to private parties' databases, processing of biometric data and DNA profiles. 59.
IV.2 Purpose limitation and further processing 60.
This approach reflects well the principle of purpose limitation, as it is also enshrined in Article 8 of the Charter of Human Rights for the European Union and is thus consistent with current data protection legislation.
Further processing for purposes within the scope of the Framework Decision 61.
It should be clarified that this need for further processing is recognised in Article 11 of the proposal, but in a fairly insufficient way.
The EDPS recommends applying Article 11 (1) to all data, regardless of whether or not they have been received from another Member State.
Practically, the EDPS suggests laying down this provision in a new Article 4 bis (in any case, in Chapter II of the proposal). 65.
Article 11 (2) and 11 (3) remain applicable as they are; they provide for supplementary safeguards for data received from other Member States.
They could in these cases even be processed by other authorities than the competent authorities under this Framework Decision.
Within the framework of the first pillar, this issue has been addressed in Article 13 of Directive 95/46/EC, stipulating that in specific cases restrictions to some provisions of the Directive are allowed.
Along the same line of reasoning, this Framework Decision should stipulate in Chapter II that Member States should be allowed to adopt legislative measures to allow further processing when such a measure is necessary to safeguard: - the prevention of threats to public security, defence or national security; - the protection of an important economic or financial interest of a Member State or of the European Union. - the protection of the data subject.
IV.3 Criteria for making data processing legitimate 68.
Article 5 of the proposal states that data may be processed by the competent authorities only if provided for by a law setting out that the processing is necessary for the fulfilment of the legitimate task of the authority concerned and for the purpose of the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences.
However, the text of Article 5 underestimates the need for making data processing legitimate on other legal grounds, in specific circumstances.
IV.4 Necessity and proportionality 71.
The Articles 4 and 5 of the proposal also aim to ensure — in a generally satisfactory manner — that limitations to the protection of personal data are necessary and proportional, as required under the law of the European Union and by the case law of the European Court of Human Rights on Article 8 ECHR: - Article 4(1)(c) lays down the general rule that data shall be adequate, relevant and not excessive in relation to the purposes for which they are collected and/or further processed. - Article 5 specifies that the processing should be necessary for the fulfilment of the legitimate task of the authority concerned and for the purpose of the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences. - Article 4(4) states that processing of personal data is only necessary if certain specific conditions are fulfilled. 72.
The EDPS notes that the proposed formulation of Article 4(4) does not meet the criteria laid down by the case law of the European Court of Human Rights relating to Article 8 ECHR, according to which a restriction to private life might be imposed only when it is necessary in a democratic society.
Therefore, the EDPS recommends redrafting the first indent of Article 4 (4) so as to ensure the respect of the case law on Article 8 ECHR.
In both cases, suitable specific safeguards shall be put in place. 77.
IV.6 Accuracy and reliability 81.
This is in line with the general principles of EU data protection legislation. 82.
Article 4 (1) (d), third sentence, establishes that Member States may provide for the processing of data to varying degrees of accuracy and reliability.
The EDPS underlines the importance of this obligation both for data subjects and law enforcement authorities, especially where data are processed far from their source (see point 7 of this opinion).
Verification of data quality 83.
The general principle laid down in Article 4(1)(d) is supplemented by the more specific safeguards laid down in Article 9 on verification of data quality.
In particular, Article 9 states that: 1.
In addition, for data made available by direct automated access, the quality shall be regularly verified (Article 9 (1) and (2)). 2.
Therefore, Article 4(1) and Article 9 ensure, if jointly applied, that the quality of personal data is adequately verified, both by the data subject and by those authorities that are the closest to the sources of the data processed and thus in the best position to check them. 85.
Therefore, the EDPS regrets that the applicability of Article 9 on verification of quality of data is limited to data that are transmitted or made available to other Member states.
This is unfortunate, since it entails that quality of personal data, which is essential also for law enforcement purposes, would be fully ensured only when these data are transmitted or made available to other Member States, but not when they are processed within a Member State [17].
Therefore, the EDPS recommends removing in any case the limitations in the scope of application of Article 9 (1) and (6), by moving these provisions to Chapter II of the proposal.
The distinction between different categories of data 88.
Unfortunately, Article 7 (1) lays down specific safeguards only with regard to time limits, and its applicability is limited to the category of persons mentioned in the last indent of Article 4 (3) of the proposal.
The EDPS proposes that the general derogation of Article 7 (1) should be deleted or at least explicitly restrict the public interests justifying the use of this derogation by the Member States [21]. 95.
Therefore, it is essential that principles of fair and lawful processing — as well as principles of due process in general — also apply to the collection and the exchanges of personal data across Union borders, and that personal data are transferred to third countries or international organisations only if an adequate level of protection or appropriate safeguards are guaranteed by those third parties concerned.
In this perspective, the EDPS welcomes Article 15 of the proposal that provides for protection in case of transfer to competent authorities in third countries or to international bodies.
Firstly, the level of protection offered by EU law in case of transfer to third country should not be determined by the source of the data — a police force within the Member State that transfers data to a third country, or a police force within another Member State. 100.
This principle does not only represent one of the fundamental provisions of Directive 95/46/EC, but it is also enshrined by the Additional Protocol to Convention 108 [23].
Therefore, the EDPS recommends amending the present proposal so as to ensure that Article 15 applies to the exchange of all personal data with third countries.
This recommendation does not relate to Article 15 (1)(c) that by its nature can only be relevant to personal data exchanged with other Member States.
Article 15 lays down a series of conditions for transfers to competent authorities in third countries or to international organisations comparable to the conditions of Article 25 of Directive 95/46/EC.
Nonetheless, Article 15(6) lays down the possibility to transfer data to third countries or international organisations in which an adequate level of data protection is not ensured, provided that the transfer is absolutely necessary in order to safeguard the essential interests of a Member State or for the prevention of imminent serious danger threatening public security or a specific person or persons. 104.
Processing of personal data received from third countries 105.
Therefore, the EDPS recommends that this is clarified at least in a recital of the proposal, possibly by reference to relevant international instruments [24]. 107.
Therefore, the EDPS recommends adding a provision to Article 9 of the proposal stating that the quality of personal data transmitted from third countries should be specifically assessed as soon as they are received and the degree of accuracy and reliability of those data should be indicated.
IV.9 Exchanges of personal data with private parties and non law enforcement authorities 109.
Articles 13 and 14 of the proposal lay down a series of requirements to be fulfilled in cases where personal data are further transmitted to private parties and non law enforcement authorities.
In this perspective, the EDPS considers that additional conditions laid down by Articles 13 and 14 could be considered satisfactory, if applied jointly with general rules laid down in Chapter II, including a comprehensive application of the rules on further processing (see above, IV.2).
However, the current proposal limits the applicability of Articles 13 and 14 to personal data received from or made available by the competent authorities of another Member State. 112.
The general applicability of the latter conditions is even more important if one considers the growing exchange of data between law enforcement authorities and other authorities or private parties also within Member States.
Therefore, the EDPS recommends amending the present proposal so as to ensure that Article 13 and 14 apply to the exchange of all personal data, including those not transmitted or made available by another Member State.
This recommendation does not relate to Articles 13 (c) and 14 (c).
In addition, the accuracy and reliability of data processed for commercial purposes shall be carefully assessed when these data are used for law enforcement purposes [27]. 116.
Instead, these important issues may be the subject of national law or action pursuant to Title VI of the TUE [28]. 117.
Therefore, the EDPS considers that common standards should apply on access by law enforcement authorities to personal data held by private parties, so as to ensure that access is permitted only on the basis of well defined conditions and limitations.
Chapter IV deals with the rights of the data subject, in a way which is in general consistent with current data protection legislation and with Article 8 of the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights. 121.
This is all the more important to allow citizens, whose data are increasingly processed and exchanged by competent authorities of different EU Member States, to avail themselves of a harmonised set of rights as data subjects, disregarding the Member State in which data are collected or processed [29]. 123.
The EDPS recognizes the opportunity to restrict data subjects' rights in those cases when this is necessary for the purpose of the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences.
In addition, the EDPS recommends improving Articles 19, 20, 21 as follows: - specify that the restrictions on the rights of the data subject are not compulsory, do not apply for an indefinite period of time and are permitted %quot%only%quot% in the specific cases listed in the articles, - take into account that information should be provided by the controller autonomously and not on the basis of a request by the data subject, - add to Article 19(1)(c) that information should also be provided on %quot%the time-limits for storing the data%quot%, - ensure (by amending Article 20 (1) in line with other EU data protection instruments) that information — where data have not been obtained from the data subject or have been obtained from him without his knowledge — shall be provided to him %quot%no later than the time when data are first disclosed%quot% - ensure that the mechanism to appeal against refusal or restriction of the data subjects' rights is applicable to cases of restriction of the right to be informed and amend the last sentence of Article 19(4) accordingly.
Automated individual decisions 126.
The EDPS — while recognising that these systems may be necessary in certain cases in order to increase the effectiveness of law enforcement activities — notes that decisions based solely on automated processing of data should be subject to very strict conditions and safeguards when they produce legal effects concerning a person or significantly affect a person.
Therefore, the EDPS recommends introducing a specific provision on automated individual decisions, in line with current EU data protection legislation.
IV.11 Security of processing 130.
As far as security of processing is concerned, Article 24 lays down an obligation for the controller to implement appropriate technical and organisational measures, which are in line with the provisions of other EU data protection instruments.
Such information shall be available on request to the competent supervisory authority. 133.
IV.12 Judicial remedies, liability and sanctions 134.
Chapter VI of the proposal deals with judicial remedies (Article 27), liability (Article 28) and sanctions (Article 29).
The provisions are in general consistent with current EU data protection legislation. 135.
IV.13 Control, supervision and advisory tasks 136.
Data Protection Officers are administrators within an organisation that shall ensure in an independent manner the internal application of provisions on data protection. 138.
These provisions could be modelled analogous to the Articles 24-26 of Regulation 45/2001/EC. 139.
It is therefore logical that Article 30 of the proposal foresees supervision by independent supervisory authorities.
This article is drafted in a similar way as Article 28 of Directive 95/46/EC.
All the relevant players in the area of data protection are mentioned in Article 31 of the proposal. 140.
The present proposal also designates the EDPS as a member of the Working Party (based on Article 31), but does not foresee a right to vote for the EDPS.
It is not clear for what reasons the present proposal deviates from Article 29 of Directive 95/46/EC.
IV.14 Other provisions 143.
Chapter VIII of the proposal contains some final provisions amending the Schengen Convention and other instruments concerning the processing and protection of personal data.
Schengen Convention 144.
Article 33 of the proposal stipulates that Articles 126 to 130 of the Schengen Convention will be replaced by this Decision for the matters falling within the scope of the EU Treaty.
Articles 126 to 130 of the Schengen Convention contain the general data protection rules for processing of data communicated pursuant to the Convention (but outside of the Schengen Information System). 145.
Some provisions of the Schengen Convention are indeed stricter than those of the Framework Decision. 146.
The EDPS especially mentions Article 126 (3) (b) of the Schengen Convention that states that data can be used only by judicial authorities and departments and authorities carrying out tasks or performing duties in relation with the purposes stipulated by the Convention.
Another point is that the data protection provisions in the Schengen Convention apply also to all data communicated from or included in non-automated files (Article 127), while non structured files are excluded from the scope of the proposed Framework Decision.
Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters between the Member States of the European Union 147.
Article 34 states that Article 23 of the Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters between the Member States of the European Union is replaced by the framework decision.
According to Article 23(4) of the Convention, when these additional conditions relate to the use of personal data, they will prevail on the data protection rules laid down by Article 23.
Therefore, the EDPS recommends clarifying this point, with a view to thoroughly assessing the consequences of a full replacement of Article 23 of the Convention by this framework decision.
Convention 108 of the Council of Europe for the protection of individuals with regard to automatic processing of personal data 149.
Final issues 150.
Common standards c) According to the EDPS, a new framework for data protection should not only respect the principles of data protection — it is important to guarantee the consistency of the data protection within the European Union — but also provide for an additional set of rules taking into account the specific nature of the area of law enforcement.
d) The present proposal fulfils these conditions: it ensures that the existing principles of data protection as laid down in Directive 95/46/EC will be applied within the area of the third pillar, since most of the provisions of the proposal mirror other EU legal instruments on the protection of personal data and are consistent with those legal instruments.
Applicable to all processing e) It is essential for the achievement of its objective that the Framework Decision covers all police and judicial data, even if they are not transmitted or made available by competent authorities of other Member States.
f) Articles 30 (1)(b) and 31 (1)(c) TEU provide for a legal basis for rules on data protection not limited to the protection of personal data that are actually exchanged between the competent authorities of the Member States but also applicable to domestic situations.
g) The proposal does not apply to processing in the framework of the second pillar of the EU-Treaty (common foreign and security policy), nor to processing of data by intelligence services and the access by these services to these data when processed by competent authorities or other parties (this follows from Article 33 TEU).
In these areas, national law is to provide adequate protection of data subjects.
j) The present proposal for a Council Framework Decision on data protection has its own merits and is needed even in the absence of the adoption of a legal instrument on availability (as proposed by the Commission on 12 October 2005).
k) The approval by the European Parliament of the Directive on the retention of communication data makes it even more urgent to establish a legal framework for data protection in the third pillar.
Structure of the proposal l) The additional rules in Chapter II (in addition to the general principles of Directive 95/46/EC) should offer additional protection to the data subjects related to the specific context of the third pillar, but may not lead to a lower level of protection.
p) Under EU data protection law personal data must be collected for specified and explicit purposes and not further processed in a way incompatible with those purposes.
q) The Framework Decision should stipulate in Chapter II that Member States should be allowed to adopt legislative measures to allow further processing when such a measure is necessary to safeguard: - the prevention of threats to public security, defence or national security; - the protection of an important economic or financial interest of a Member State. - the protection of the data subject.
The EDPS recommends amending the present proposal so as to ensure that Article 15 applies to the exchange of all personal data with third countries.
The EDPS recommends amending the present proposal so as to ensure that Articles 13 and 14 apply to the exchange of all personal data, including those not received or made available by another Member State.
This recommendation does not relate to Articles 13 (c) and 14 (c).
Special categories of data w) Specific safeguards should be provided, in particular with a view to guarantee that: - biometric data and DNA profiles are used only on the basis of well established and interoperable technical standards, - their level of accuracy is carefully taken into account and might be challenged by the data subject through readily available means, and - that the respect of the dignity of persons is fully ensured.
The EDPS intends to issue an opinion on this proposal in the beginning of 2006. [12] The EDPS refers to the same reasoning by the Court in (inter alia) its judgement in Österreichischer Rundfunk and Others, Joined cases C-465/00, C-138/01 and C-139/01, ECR [2003], p.
I-4989. [13] See in the same sense, the Opinion of the EDPS of 26 September 2005 on the Proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the retention of data processed in connection with the provision of public electronic communication services and amending Directive 2002/58/EC, point 33. [14] Judgment of the Court of 16 June 2005, Pupino, Case C-105/03. [15] The provision could be similar to the provision in Article 46 of Regulation 45/2001/EC. [16] The Customs Information System is a small but rather complicated system consisting of national and supranational elements, comparable to the Schengen Information System.
The EDPS will deal with the Customs Information System in another context. [17] In addition, this would not be in line with Council of Europe's Recommendation No.R (87) 15 of the Committee of Ministers to Member States regulating the use of personal data in the police sector.
In particular, Principle 7.2 provides that %quot%regular checks%quot% on the quality of personal data should be established in agreement with the supervisory authority or in accordance with domestic law. [18] See, more specific, point 94 of this opinion. [19] The decision of the Council 2005/876/JHA on the exchange of information extracted from the criminal record entered into force on 9 December.
The Commission envisages to propose a new Framework Decision in this area.. [20] if data are not or no longer necessary for the purpose for which they were transmitted. [21] One could consider a limitation to the fight of terrorism and/or the specific public interests mentioned in Article 4 (1) (e): historical, statistical or scientific use. [22] For an example, see the recent Commission's Communication on %quot%A Strategy on the External Dimension of the Area of Freedom, Security and Justice%quot% (COM(2005) 491 Final). [23] The Additional Protocol to the Convention for the Protection of Individuals with regard to Automatic Processing of Personal Data, regarding supervisory authorities and transborder data flows, was signed on 8/11/2001 and entered into force on 1/7/2004.
This binding international law instrument has been signed so far by 11 States (9 of which are EU Members).
Article 8 ECHR, as interpreted by the European Court of Human Rights...%quot% [29] In particular, Chapter IV deals with the right of information (Articles 19 and 20) and the right of access, rectification, erasure or blocking (Article 21).
In particular, restrictions to data subjects' rights are allowed by almost identical provisions laid down with regard to both right to information (Articles 19.2 and 20.2) and right to access (Article 21.2). [30] See, in the same sense, the opinion of the EDPS on the Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the Visa Information System (VIS) and the exchange of data between Member States on short stay-visas, COM(2004) 835 final, published on www.edps.eu.int [31] This is in line with the provisions laid down by Article 18 of the proposal, according to which the transmitting authority will be informed on request about the further processing of the personal data transmitted or made available, and by Article 24, implementing the security measures, also in the light of the proposed systematic self-auditing of these measures. --------------------------------------------------
