whereas growth in the euro area and the 25-member European Union is failing to achieve its potential on a sustained basis and is still too weak, particularly in the four leading economies in the euro area; whereas household consumption is still faltering and the economic outlook for 2005 and 2006 continues to be unsatisfactory, contributing to a continuing high level of unemployment which will decline only slowly; whereas, despite the lowest interest rates since the Second World War, there is little willingness to invest; B.
whereas the Union is now an entity comprising 455 million men and women in 25 very disparate countries; whereas there are considerable economic and social disparities between and, in many cases, within the Member States; whereas the growth in a number of Member States is considerably higher than in others; whereas excessively general guidelines could fail to take account of the diversity of problems arising, H.
Welcomes the presentation of integrated BEPGs and employment guidelines which concentrate on growth and employment while remaining committed to a balance between the three pillars of the Lisbon Strategy in line with the presidency conclusions of the Brussels European Council of 22 and 23 March 2005, that integrated presentation being a sign of the complementary nature of economic and social policy and of commitment to further progress towards making the macro-economic framework established for the Union simpler and easier to understand; supports the determination of the Council and the Commission to concentrate to a greater extent on growth and employment by increasing competitiveness, extending the internal market to the services sector, improving the efficiency of public services and consequently boosting domestic demand; 2.
Calls on the Council to take account of the following modifications: COMMISSION RECOMMENDATION | MODIFICATIONS BY PARLIAMENT | Modification 1 Section A, Chapter A.1, paragraph 4 Guideline.
Member States posting current account deficits that risk being unsustainable should work towards correcting them by implementing structural reforms to boost external competitiveness and also contribute to their correction via fiscal policies, particularly by using the fruits of growth; moreover, Member States should redirect public spending towards budget categories that support the objectives of the Lisbon strategy, particularly investment aimed at developing human resources, knowledge, innovation and infrastructure, in order to assist economic development (Integrated guideline No 1). | Modification 2 Section A, Chapter A.1, paragraph 7 Guideline.
See also integrated guideline "Promote a lifecycle approach to work" (No 17). | Modification 3 Section A, Chapter A.1, paragraph 9 Guideline.
To promote an efficient allocation of resources Member States should, without prejudice to guidelines on economic stability and sustainability, direct the composition of public expenditure towards growth-enhancing and job-creating categories and adapt tax structures to strengthen potential growth and stimulate private investment, particularly by creating a fiscal framework that is favourable to SMEs and offers incentives to create jobs; Member States should cooperate to combat tax evasion; Member States should also ensure that mechanisms are in place to assess the relationship between public spending and the achievement of policy objectives and ensure the overall coherence of reform packages (Integrated guideline No 3). | Modification 4 Section A, Chapter A.1, paragraph 11 Guideline.
See also integrated guideline "Promote flexibility combined with employment security and reduce labour market segmentation" (No 20). | Modification 5 Section A, Chapter A.1, paragraph 14 Guideline.
See also integrated guideline "Ensure employment-friendly wage and other labour cost developments" (No 21). | Modification 6 Section A, Chapter A.2, paragraph 6 Guideline.
Moreover, Member States should ensure the external representation of the euro area in accordance with the commitments made at the Vienna European Council of 11 and 12 December 1998, so that the increasingly important role of the euro in the global economic system is commensurate with its economic weight.
In the new Member States, nominal convergence must be accompanied by real convergence. (Integrated guideline No 6). | Modification 7 Section B, Chapter B.1, paragraph 4 Guideline.
To extend and deepen the Internal Market, Member States should speed up the transposition of Internal Market directives, give priority to stricter and better enforcement of Internal Market legislation, accelerate the process of financial market integration, eliminate bureaucratic and tax obstacles to cross-border activities by pressing forward with negotiations on harmonising the tax basis and apply EU public procurement rules effectively (Integrated guideline No 7). | Modification 8 Section B, Chapter B.1, paragraph 9 Guideline.
Moreover, Member States should consult widely on the costs and benefits in terms of growth and employment of their regulatory and legislative initiatives, in particular where these imply trade-offs between different policy objectives (Integrated guideline No 9). | Modification 10 Section B, Chapter B.1, paragraph 16 Guideline.
To promote a more entrepreneurial culture and create a supportive environment for SMEs, Member States should improve access to finance, adapt tax systems, strengthen the innovative potential of SMEs, and provide relevant information and support services in order to encourage the creation and growth of start-ups in line with the SMEs Charter.
To promote a more entrepreneurial culture and create a supportive environment for SMEs, Member States should improve access to finance, in particular to venture capital and microcredit, reform and adapt tax systems, stimulating investment initially by harmonising the tax basis, strengthen the innovative potential of SMEs, and provide relevant information and support services in order to encourage the creation and growth of start-ups in line with the SMEs Charter.
Member States should also facilitate the transfer of ownership, revise their bankruptcy laws, and improve their rescue and restructuring proceedings, while improving the rules on corporate governance and managerial responsibility (Integrated guideline No 10). | Modification 11 Section B, Chapter B.2, paragraph 4 Guideline.
See also integrated guideline "Expand and improve investment in human capital" (No 22). | Modification 12 Section B, Chapter B.2, paragraph 7 Guideline.
They should facilitate the uptake of ICT and related changes in the organisation of work in the economy (Integrated guideline No 13). | Modification 13 Section B, Chapter B.2, paragraph 9 Guideline.
