With the work programme annexed to the Fourth Report on the application of Directive 89/552/EEC “Television without Frontiers”[1], the Commission launched in 2003 a first consultation round for the review of Council Directive 89/552/EEC as amended by Directive 97/36/EC (Television without Frontiers Directive – TVWF), including public hearings and a written consultation.
The results of the Focus Groups were presented to the Member States at a seminar in Luxembourg on 30 and 31 May and were summarised in “issues papers” published by the Commission in July 2005.
The Commission received contributions from more than 200 stakeholders in this second consultation round from all sectors, including civil society and industry representatives.
The present proposal amends the TVWF Directives in order to establish a modernised and flexible framework for television broadcasts, including other linear (scheduled) audiovisual media services, and to introduce a set of minimum rules for non-linear (on-demand) audiovisual media services. | 140 | Consistency with the other policies and objectives of the Union This proposal is complementary to existing EU law, in particular Directive 2000/31/EC on electronic commerce, which also deals with on-demand services.
The Commission published discussion papers on its website and invited interested parties to transmit their written contributions by 15 July 2003.
The Commission received more that 150 written contributions (around 1 350 pages) from all relevant parties (private and public broadcasters, regulators, producers, rights holders) and most Member States.
The results of the Focus Group discussions were summarised in “Issues papers” published in July 2005 for the Audiovisual Conference co-organised with the UK Presidency.
Rights to information and short extracts The right to information and to short extracts is approached differently by the various stakeholders: on the one hand, some stakeholders claim that there is no need for the harmonisation of different regulatory frameworks at European level, while, on the other hand, public broadcasters consider that the current negotiating conditions do not facilitate access to short extracts, so a provision in the Directive would be helpful in that respect. | Collection and use of expertise | 221 | Scientific/expertise domains concerned - comparative study on the impact of control measures on the television advertising markets in European Union Member States (Carat); - study on the impact of measures for the promotion of the distribution and production of TV programmes - Community and national (David Graham and Associated Ltd.); - study on co-regulatory measures in the media sector (Hans Bredow Institut); - study on the application of rules concerning TV advertising, sponsorship and teleshopping (Audimetrie); - Impact Assessment (Rand). | 222 | Methodology used Benchmarking, statistical research, qualitative interviews, bibliography research, collection of facts and figures taking into account economic parameters as well as technological factors. | 223 | Main organisations/experts consulted Focus Groups, Carat, RAND, David Graham and Associated Ltd., Hans Bredow Institut, S.A.
Analysis shows that the limitations provided for in Article 18 ensure a good balance between viewer protection and market needs.
Only in a few cases could conditions deteriorate, assuming a series of hypotheses were met. | 231 | The Commission carried out the impact assessment in accordance with the work programme, a report on which is annexed to the draft legislative proposal and will be made available on DG Information Society and Media’s website: http://europa.eu.int/comm/avpolicy/stat/studi_en.htm. | LEGAL ELEMENTS OF THE PROPOSAL | 305 | Summary of the proposed action - Amending the Directive - Common minimum rules for all audiovisual media services (including non-linear services) - Flexibility and modernisation of advertising rules while ensuring protection of consumers and meeting general public policy objectives | 310 | Legal basis Articles 47(2) and 55 of the Treaty establishing the European Community. | 329 | Subsidiarity principle With regard to emerging on-demand audiovisual media services, there is a growing concern that differences in national regulations applying to these services will create barriers to competition in the internal market.
Such regimes must be broadly accepted by the main stakeholders and provide for effective enforcement. | BUDGETARY IMPLICATIONS | 409 | The proposal has no implications for the Community budget. | ADDITIONAL INFORMATION | Simulation, pilot phase and transitional period | 507 | There will be a transitional period for the proposal. | 510 | Simplification | 511 | The proposal provides for the simplification of legislation. | 512 | The rules concerning television advertising in the current TVWF Directive will be considerably simplified.
Nonetheless, films made for television, cinematographic works, children’s programmes and news programmes may be interrupted by advertising only once per each period of 35 minutes. | 1. 2005/0260 (COD) Proposal for a DIRECTIVE OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL AMENDING COUNCIL DIRECTIVE 89/552/EEC on the coordination of certain provisions laid down by law, regulation or administrative action in Member States concerning the pursuit of television broadcasting activities (Text with EEA relevance) THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular Articles 47(2) and 55 thereof, Having regard to the proposal from the Commission[3], Having regard to the opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee[4], Having regard to the opinion of the Committee of the Regions[5], Acting in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 251 of the Treaty[6], Whereas: (1) Directive 89/552/EEC coordinates certain provisions laid down by law, regulation or administrative action in Member States concerning the pursuit of broadcasting activities.
In particular, Article 3(4) of Directive 2000/31/EC provides that Member States may derogate from the country of origin principle for specific public policy reasons. (3) The importance of audiovisual media services for societies, democracy and culture justifies the application of specific rules to these services. (4) Traditional audiovisual media services and emerging on-demand services offer significant employment opportunities in the Community, particularly in small and medium-sized enterprises, and stimulate economic growth and investment. (5) Legal uncertainty and a non-level playing field exist for European companies delivering audiovisual media services as regards the legal regime governing emerging on-demand services, it is therefore necessary, both to avoid distortions of competition and to improve legal certainty, to apply at least a basic tier of coordinated rules to all audiovisual media services. (6) The Commission has adopted a Communication on the future of European regulatory audiovisual policy[7], in which it stresses that regulatory policy in the sector has to safeguard certain public interests, such as cultural diversity, the right to information, the protection of minors and consumer protection, now and in the future. (7) The Commission has adopted the initiative “i2010: European Information Society”[8] to foster growth and jobs in the information society and media industries.
The Commission has committed itself to creating a consistent internal market framework for the information society and media services by modernising the legal framework for audiovisual services, starting with a Commission proposal in 2005 to modernise the Television without Frontiers Directive. (8) On 6 September 2005, the European Parliament adopted a Resolution on the application of Articles 4 and 5 of Directive 89/552/EEC, as amended by Directive 97/36/EC, for the period 2001-2002 (Weber Report)[9].
It is also essential in order to ensure the free flow of information and audiovisual programmes in the internal market. (20) Technological developments, especially with regard to digital satellite programmes, mean that subsidiary criteria need to be adapted in order to ensure suitable regulation and effective implementation and to give players genuine power over the content of an audiovisual content service. (21) As this Directive concerns services offered to the general public in the European Union, it should apply only to audiovisual media services that can be received directly or indirectly by the public in one or more Member States with standard consumer equipment.
The definition of “standard consumer equipment” should be left to the competent national authorities. (22) Articles 43 to 48 of the Treaty lay down the fundamental right to the freedom of establishment.
However, it is essential to promote pluralism through the diversity of news production and programming across the European Union and to respect the principles recognised by Article 11 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. (27) Therefore, in order to safeguard the fundamental freedom to receive information and to ensure that the interests of viewers in the European Union are fully and properly protected, those exercising exclusive rights concerning an event of public interest should grant other broadcasters and intermediaries, where they are acting on behalf of broadcasters, the right to use short extracts for the purposes of general news programming on fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms taking due account of exclusive rights.
As a general rule, such short extracts should not exceed 90 seconds. (28) Non-linear services are different from linear services with regard to choice and control the user can exercise and with regard to the impact they have on society[17].
It is therefore necessary to introduce rules to protect the physical, mental and moral development of minors as well as human dignity in all audiovisual media services and in audiovisual commercial communication. (32) Measures taken to protect minors and human dignity must be carefully balanced with the fundamental right to freedom of expression as laid down in the Charter on Fundamental Rights of the European Union.
Within the framework of the reports set out in Article 3f paragraph 3, Member States shall also take into account notably the financial contribution by such services to the production and rights acquisition of European works; the share of European works in the catalogue of audiovisual media services as well as in the effective users’ consumption of European works proposed by such services. (36) When implementing the provisions of Article 4 of Directive 89/552/EEC as amended, Member States should make provision for broadcasters to include an adequate share of co-produced European works or of European works of non-domestic origin. (37) It is important to ensure that cinematographic works are transmitted within periods agreed between right holders and audiovisual media service providers. (38) The availability of non-linear services increases the choice of the consumer.
Article 88(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC[19] which prohibits advertising to the general public of certain medicine products applies, as provided in paragraph 5 of the same Article, without prejudice to Article 14 of Directive 89/552/EEC; the relation between Directive 2001/83/EC and Directive 89/552/EEC should remain the same after the entry into force of the present Directive. (42) As the increase in the number of new services has led to a greater choice for viewers, detailed regulation with regard to the insertion of spot advertising with the aim of protecting viewers is no longer justified.
Close cooperation among national regulatory authorities and the Commission is necessary to ensure the correct application of this Directive, HAVE ADOPTED THIS DIRECTIVE: Article 1 Directive 89/552/EEC[21] is hereby amended as follows: (1) The title is replaced by the following: “Directive [No] of the European Parliament and of the Council on the coordination of certain provisions laid down by law, regulation or administrative action in Member States concerning the provision of audiovisual media services (Audiovisual Media Services Directive)”. (2) Article 1 is replaced by the following: “Article 1 For the purpose of this Directive: 2. ‘audiovisual media service’ means a service as defined by Articles 49 and 50 of the Treaty the principal purpose of which is the provision of moving images with or without sound, in order to inform, entertain or educate, to the general public by electronic communications networks within the meaning of Article 2(a) of Directive 2002/21/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council[22], 3. ‘media service provider’ means the natural or legal person who has editorial responsibility for the choice of the audiovisual content of the audiovisual media service and determines the manner in which it is organised; 4. ‘television broadcasting’ or ‘television broadcast’ mean a linear audiovisual media service where a media service provider decides upon the moment in time when a specific programme is transmitted and establishes the programme schedule; 5. ‘broadcaster’ means provider of linear audiovisual media services; 6. ‘non-linear service’ means an audiovisual media service where the user decides upon the moment in time when a specific programme is transmitted on the basis of a choice of content selected by the media service provider; 7. ‘audiovisual commercial communication’ means moving images with or without sound which accompany audiovisual media services and are designed to promote, directly or indirectly, the goods, services or image of a natural or legal entity pursuing an economic activity; 8. ‘television advertising’ means any form of announcement broadcast whether in return for payment or for similar consideration or broadcast for self-promotional purposes by a public or private undertaking in connection with a trade, business, craft or profession in order to promote the supply of goods or services, including immovable property, rights and obligations, in return for payment; 9. ‘surreptitious advertising’ means the representation in words or pictures of goods, services, the name, the trade mark or the activities of a producer of goods or a provider of services in programmes when such representation is intended by the broadcaster to serve advertising and might mislead the public as to its nature.
Any measures pursuant to paragraph 7 shall be objectively necessary, applied in a non-discriminatory manner, be suitable for attaining the objectives which they pursue and may not go beyond what is necessary to attain them.10.
If the Commission decides that the measures are incompatible with Community law, the Member State in question shall refrain from taking the proposed measures.” (4) Article 2a is amended as follows: (a) Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following:“1.
Member States shall remain free to require media service providers under their jurisdiction to comply with more detailed or stricter rules in the areas covered by this Directive. 2.
the name of the media service provider; 27.
Article 3d Member States shall take appropriate measures to ensure that audiovisual media services under their jurisdiction are not made available in such a way that might seriously impair the physical, mental or moral development of minors.
Article 3e Member States shall ensure by appropriate means that audiovisual media services and audiovisual commercial communications provided by providers under their jurisdiction do not contain any incitement to hatred based on sex, racial or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation.
Isolated advertising and teleshopping spots, other than in sports programmes, shall remain the exception.” (10) Article 11 is replaced by the following: “Article 11 1.
Paragraph 1 does not apply to announcements made by the broadcaster in connection with its own programmes and ancillary products directly derived from those programmes, sponsorship announcements and product placement.” (14) Article 18a is deleted. (15) Article 19 is replaced by the following: “Article 19 The provisions of this Directive shall apply mutatis mutandis to television broadcasts exclusively devoted to advertising and teleshopping as well as to television broadcasts exclusively devoted to self-promotion.
Chapter 3 as well as Article 11 (rules on insertion) and Article 18 (duration of advertising and teleshopping) do not apply to these broadcasts.” (16) Article 19a is deleted. (17) Article 20 is replaced by the following: “Article 20 Without prejudice to Article 3, Member States may, with due regard for Community law, lay down conditions other than those laid down in Article 11(2) and Article 18 in respect of broadcasts intended solely for the national territory which cannot be received, directly or indirectly by the public, in one or more other Member States and in respect of broadcasts having no significant impact in terms of audience share.” (18) Articles 22a and 22b are deleted. (19) Article 23a is amended as follows: In paragraph 2 (e) the expression “television broadcasting services” is replaced by the expression “audiovisual media services”. (20) The following Article 23b is inserted: “Article 23 b 1.
Council Directive 89/552/EEC of 3 October 1989 on the coordination of certain provisions laid down by law, regulation or administrative action in Member States concerning the pursuit of television broadcasting activities: Articles 3g to 3h[24] and Articles 10 to 20[25].
Article 4 This Directive shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union .
Article 5 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Directive as last amended by Directive 97/36/EC (OJ L 202, 30.7.1997, p. 60). [22] OJ L 108, 24.4.2002, p. 33. [23] OJ L 364, 9.12.2004, p. 1. [24] OJ L xxxx, p xxx. [25] OJ L 298, 17.10.1989, p. 23. [26] OJ L xxxxx, p.
