On the date of its entry into force, this Agreement repeals and replaces the Agreement between the European Community and the Gabonese Republic on fishing off the coast of Gabon which entered into force on 3 December 1998.
The Protocol and the Annex thereto setting out the technical and financial conditions governing the fishing activities of European Community vessels were signed for a period of six years from 3 December 2005.
They are applicable as from 3 December 2005.
The financial contribution is fixed at EUR 860 000 per year.
The fishing opportunities provided for in the Agreement have been laid down according to two categories: (1) for the fishing category "freezer tuna seiners": 24 vessels; (2) for the fishing category "surface longliners": 16 vessels.
Shipowners' fees have been fixed for each category and, overall, could create an additional annual income of around EUR 142 000 million for Gabon.
Article 2 The Agreement shall apply provisionally from 3 December 2005.
Article 3 The fishing opportunities set out in the Protocol to the Agreement shall be allocated among the Member States as follows: Fishing category | Type of vessel | Member State | Licences or quota | Tuna fishing | Surface longliners | Spain | 13 | Portugal | 3 | Tuna fishing | Freezer tuna seiners | Spain | 12 | France | 12 | If licence applications from these Member States do not cover all the fishing opportunities laid down by the Protocol, the Commission may take into consideration licence applications from any other Member State.
Article 4 The Member States whose vessels fish under this Agreement shall notify the Commission of the quantities of each stock caught within the Gabonese fishing zone in accordance with Commission Regulation (EC) No 500/2001 of 14 March 2001 laying down detailed rules for the application of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2847/93 on the monitoring of catches taken by Community fishing vessels in third country waters and on the high seas[2].
Article 5 The President of the Council is hereby authorised to designate the persons empowered to sign the Agreement in the form of an Exchange of Letters in order to bind the Community.
Done at Brussels, For the Council The President ANNEX Agreement in the form of an Exchange of Letters on the provisional application of the Protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the Agreement between the European Community and the Gabonese Republic on fishing off the coast of Gabon for the period from 3 December 2005 to 2 December 2011 A.
Letter from the European Community Sir, I have the honour to acknowledge receipt of your letter of today's date which reads as follows: "With reference to the Protocol, initialled on Friday 28 October 2005, setting out the fishing opportunities and the financial contribution for the period from 3 December 2005 to 2 December 2011, I have the honour to inform you that Gabon is willing to apply the Protocol provisionally from 3 December 2005 pending its entry into force in accordance with Article 13 thereof, provided that the European Community is prepared to do likewise.
This is on the understanding that the first instalment of the financial contribution, laid down by Article 2 of the Protocol, must be paid before 30 September 2006." I am pleased to confirm the agreement of the European Community to a provisional application.
This is on the understanding that the first instalment of the financial contribution, laid down by Article 2 of the Protocol, must be paid before 30 September 2006.
For the Government of Gabon Protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the Agreement between the European Community and the Gabonese Republic on fishing off the coast of Gabon for the period from 3 December 2005 to 2 December 2011 Article 1 Period of application and fishing opportunities 1.
For a period of six years from 3 December 2005, the fishing opportunities granted under Article 5 of the Agreement shall be as follows: Highly migratory species (species listed in Annex 1 to the 1982 United Nations Convention) - freezer tuna seiners: 24 vessels, - surface longliners: 16 vessels, 2.
Paragraph 1 shall apply subject to Articles 4 and 5 of this Protocol. 3.
Vessels flying the flag of a Member State of the European Community may fish in the Gabonese fishing zone only if they are in possession of a fishing licence issued under this Protocol in accordance with the Annex hereto.
Article 2 Financial contribution – Methods of payment 1.
The financial contribution referred to in Article 7 of the Agreement shall comprise, for the period referred to in Article 1, an annual amount of EUR 715 000 equivalent to a reference tonnage of 11 000 tonnes per year and a specific amount of EUR 145 000 per year for the support and implementation of initiatives taken in the context of the Gabonese sectoral fisheries policy.
This specific amount shall be an integral part of the single financial contribution defined in Article 7 of the Agreement. 2.
Paragraph 1 shall apply subject to Articles 4, 5 and 7 of this Protocol. 3.
If the overall quantity of catches by Community vessels in Gabonese waters exceeds 11 000 tonnes per year, the amount of the annual financial contribution (EUR 715 000) shall be increased by EUR 65 for each additional tonne caught.
However, the total annual amount paid by the Community shall not be more than twice the amount indicated in paragraph 3 (EUR 1 430 000).
Payment of the financial contribution referred to in paragraph 1 shall be made no later than 30 September 2006 for the first year and no later than 30 June 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011 for the following years. 6.
The financial contribution shall be paid into account No 47069 X, "Pêche Maritime" (Sea Fisheries) in the name of the Public Treasury of Gabon.
Article 3 Cooperation on responsible fishing – Scientific meeting 1.
During the period covered by this Protocol, the Community and the Gabonese authorities shall endeavour to monitor the evolution of resources in the Gabonese fishing zone. 3.
In accordance with Article 4 of the Agreement and on the basis of the recommendations and resolutions adopted within the International Commission for the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas (ICCAT), and in the light of the best available scientific advice, the Parties shall consult each other within the Joint Committee provided for in Article 9 of the Agreement and adopt, where appropriate after a scientific meeting possibly at subregional level, and by mutual agreement, measures to ensure the sustainable management of fisheries resources affecting the activities of Community vessels.
Article 4 Review of fishing opportunities by mutual agreement 1.
The fishing opportunities referred to in Article 1 may be increased by mutual agreement provided that the conclusions of the scientific meeting referred to in Article 3(4) confirm that such an increase will not endanger the sustainable management of Gabon's resources.
In this case the financial contribution of EUR 715 000 referred to in Article 2(1) shall be increased proportionately and pro rata temporis .
Where the quantities caught annually by Community vessels are more than twice 11 000 (i.e. 22 000) tonnes, the amount due for the quantity exceeding that limit shall be paid the following year. 2.
Conversely, if the Parties agree to adopt a reduction in the fishing opportunities provided for in Article 1, the financial contribution shall be reduced proportionately and pro rata temporis . 3.
The allocation of the fishing opportunities among different categories of vessels may also be reviewed, following consultations and by mutual agreement between the Parties, provided that any changes comply with recommendations made by the scientific meeting referred to in Article 3 regarding the management of stocks liable to be affected by such redistribution.
Article 5 New fishing opportunities 1.
Where appropriate, the Parties shall agree on the conditions applicable to these new fishing opportunities and, if necessary, make amendments to this Protocol and to the Annex hereto. 2.
Article 6 Suspension and review of the payment of the financial contribution in the event of unusual circumstances 1.
Article 7 Promotion of responsible fishing in Gabonese waters 1.
Sixty percent (60%) of the total amount of the financial contribution fixed in Article 2 shall be allocated each year to the support and implementation of initiatives taken in the context of the sectoral fisheries policy drawn up by the Gabonese Government.
Gabon shall manage the corresponding amount following the identification by mutual agreement between the two Parties, in accordance with the current priorities of Gabonese fisheries policy for ensuring sustainable and responsible management of the sector, of the objectives to be attained and the annual and multiannual programming required to attain them, pursuant to paragraph 2 below. 2.
Where the annual evaluation of the progress made in implementing the multiannual sectoral programme so warrants, the European Community may ask for the financial contribution referred to in Article 2(1) of this Protocol to be readjusted with a view to bringing the actual amount of financial resources allocated to implementation of the programme into line with its results.
Article 8 Disputes – suspension of application of the Protocol 1.
Any dispute between the Parties over the interpretation of this Protocol or its application shall be the subject of consultations between the Parties within the Joint Committee provided for in Article 9 of the Agreement, in a special meeting if necessary. 2.
Without prejudice to Article 9, application of the Protocol may be suspended at the initiative of one Party if the dispute between the two Parties is deemed to be serious and if the consultations held within the Joint Committee under paragraph 1 have not resulted in an amicable settlement. 3.
Article 10 National law The activities of Community vessels operating in Gabonese waters shall be governed by the applicable law in Gabon, unless otherwise provided in the Agreement, this Protocol and the Annex and Appendices hereto.
Article 11 Review clause During the fourth year of application of this Protocol, the Annex and the Appendices hereto, the Parties may review the provisions of the Protocol, the Annex and the Appendices and, where necessary, make amendments.
Article 12 Repeal The Annex to the Agreement between the European Community and Gabonese Republic on fishing off the coast of Gabon is hereby repealed and replaced by the Annex to this Protocol.
Article 13 Entry into force 1.
It shall apply as from 3 December 2005.
ANNEX CONDITIONS GOVERNING FISHING ACTIVITIES BY COMMUNITY VESSELS IN THE GABONESE FISHING ZONE CHAPTER I - APPLICATION FOR AND ISSUE OF LICENCES Section 1 Issue of licences 1.
The relevant Community authorities shall present to the Ministry responsible for fisheries in Gabon an application for each vessel wishing to fish under the Agreement at least 15 working days before the date of commencement of the period of validity requested. 5.
Applications shall be submitted to the Ministry responsible for fisheries on a form drawn up in accordance with the specimen in Appendix I. 6.
All licence applications shall be accompanied by the following documents: - proof of payment of the flat-rate advance for the period of validity of the licence; - any other documents or certificates required under the specific rules applicable to the type of vessel concerned pursuant to this Protocol. 7.
The fee shall be paid into the account specified by the Gabonese authorities in accordance with Article 2(7) of the Protocol. 8.
Licences for all vessels shall be issued to shipowners or their representatives via the European Commission Delegation to Gabon within 15 working days of receipt of all the documents referred to in point 6 by the Ministry responsible for fisheries in Gabon. 10.
However, at the request of the European Community and where force majeure is proven, a vessel's licence shall be replaced by a new licence for another vessel of the same category as the first vessel, as referred to in Article 1 of the Protocol, with no further fee due.
The owner of the first vessel, or his or her representative, shall return the cancelled licence to the Ministry responsible for fisheries in Gabon via the European Commission Delegation. 14.
The licence must be held on board at all times, without prejudice to what is laid down in point 2 of Chapter VIII of this Annex.
Section 2 Licence conditions – fees and advance payments 1.
The fee shall be EUR 35 per tonne caught within the Gabonese fishing zone in the case of tuna seiners and surface longliners. 3.
Licences shall be issued once the following standard amounts have been paid to the competent national authorities: - EUR 4 550 per tuna seiner, equivalent to the fees due for 130 tonnes of highly migratory species and associated species caught per year; - EUR 2 030 per surface longliner, equivalent to the fees due for 58 tonnes of highly migratory species and associated species caught per year. 4.
No later than 15 May of each year, the Member States shall notify the European Commission, with a copy to the European Commission Delegation and the Gabonese authorities, of the catch tonnages for the past year, as confirmed by the scientific institutes referred to in point 5 below. 5.
The final statement of the fees due for year n shall be drawn up by the European Commission by 30 June of year n + 1 at the latest on the basis of the catch declarations made by each shipowner and confirmed by the scientific institutes responsible for verifying catch data in the Member States, such as the Institut de Recherche pour le Développement (IRD), the Instituto Español de Oceanografía (IEO) and the Instituto de Investigação das Pescas e do Mar (IPIMAR) via the European Commission Delegation. 6.
Any additional payments shall be made by the shipowners to the competent Gabonese national authorities by 31 July of year n + 1 at the latest, into the account referred to in point 7 of Section 1 of this Chapter. 8.
CHAPTER II – FISHING ZONES 1.
Community vessels may carry out fishing activities in waters beyond 12 nautical miles from the base lines in the case of tuna seiners and surface longliners. 2.
CHAPTER III – CATCH REPORTING ARRANGEMENTS 1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the duration of a trip by a Community vessel shall be defined as follows: - the period elapsing between entering and leaving the Gabonese fishing zone, or - the period elapsing between entering the Gabonese fishing zone and a transhipment, or - the period elapsing between entering the Gabonese fishing zone and a landing in Gabon. 2.
All vessels authorised to fish in Gabonese waters under the Agreement shall be obliged to communicate their catches to the Ministry responsible for fisheries in Gabon so that it can check the quantities caught, which shall be validated by the competent scientific institutes in accordance with the procedure referred to in point 4 of Section 2 of Chapter I of this Annex.
The original of the declarations shall be transmitted on a physical medium to the Ministry responsible for fisheries in Gabon within 45 days following the end of the last trip made during the period.
Copies shall be sent at the same time by electronic means or by fax to the flag Member State and the Ministry responsible for fisheries in Gabon. 2.2 Vessels shall declare their catches on the corresponding form in the logbook, in accordance with the specimen in Appendix 2.
The words "Outside Gabonese fishing zone" shall be entered in the logbook in respect of periods during which the vessel is not in the Gabonese fishing zone. 2.3 The forms shall be filled in legibly and signed by the skipper of the vessel or by his or her legal representative. 3.
CHAPTER IV – TRANSHIPMENT AND LANDINGS The Parties shall cooperate with a view to improving landing or transhipment options in Gabonese ports. 1.
An additional reduction of EUR 5 shall be granted where fisheries products are sold to a Gabonese processing factory.
This mechanism shall apply, for all Community vessels, up to a maximum of 50% of the final statement of catches (as defined in Chapter III of the Annex) from the first year of this Protocol. 2.
CHAPTER V – EMBARKING SEAMEN 1.
CHAPTER VII – OBSERVERS 1.
Vessels authorised to fish in Gabonese waters under the Agreement shall take on board observers appointed by the competent regional fisheries organisation on the terms set out below. 1.1 Community vessels shall take on board an observer appointed by the competent regional organisation in order to check catches made in Gabonese waters. 1.2 The competent regional authority shall draw up a list of vessels designated to take an observer on board and a list of the appointed observers.
This request shall be made by the competent regional authority when the name of the observer appointed to board the vessel in question is notified. 3.
The conditions under which observers are taken on board shall be agreed between shipowners or their representatives and the competent regional authorities. 4.
Where vessels are operating in Gabonese waters, they shall carry out the following tasks: 8.1 observe the fishing activities of the vessels; 8.2 verify the position of vessels engaged in fishing operations; 8.3 perform biological sampling in the context of scientific programmes; 8.4 note the fishing gear used; 8.5 verify the catch data for Gabonese waters recorded in the logbook; 8.6 verify the percentages of by-catches and estimate the quantity of discards of species of marketable fish; 8.7 report fishing data by radio, including the quantity of catches and by-catches on board. 9.
CHAPTER VIII – MONITORING 1.
Entering and leaving the zone 3.1 Community vessels shall notify, at least three hours in advance, the Gabonese authorities responsible for fisheries inspection of their intention to enter or leave the Gabonese fishing zone; they shall also declare the overall quantities and the species on board. 3.2 When notifying leaving, vessels shall also communicate their position.
This information should preferably be communicated by fax (+241-76 46 02) or, for vessels not equipped with a fax, by radio (call sign DGPA-6241 MH2) or e-mail (dgpa@internetgabon.com). 3.3 Vessels found to be fishing without having informed the competent Gabonese authority shall be regarded as vessels in breach of the legislation. 3.4 Vessels shall also be informed of the fax and telephone numbers and e-mail address when the fishing licence is issued. 4.
Satellite monitoring 5.1 All Community vessels fishing under this Agreement shall be subject to satellite monitoring in line with Appendix 4.
Boarding 6.1 The competent Gabonese authorities shall inform the flag State and the European Commission, within no more than 24 hours, of all boardings of and penalties imposed on Community vessels in Gabonese waters. 6.2 The flag State and the European Commission shall at the same time receive a brief report of the circumstances and reasons leading to the boarding. 7.
Statement of boarding 7.1 After the competent Gabonese authorities have drawn up a statement, the skipper of the vessel shall sign it. 7.2 This signature shall not prejudice the rights of the skipper or any defence which he or she may make to the alleged infringement. 7.3 The skipper shall take the vessel to the port indicated by the Gabonese authorities.
The shipowner or his or her representative shall be informed of the outcome of the meeting and of any measures resulting from the boarding. 9.
Settlement of boarding 9.1.
This procedure shall end no later than three working days after the boarding. 9.2.
The vessel shall be released and its crew authorised to leave the port: - once the obligations arising under the amicable settlement have been fulfilled, or - when the bank security referred to in point 9.3 has been lodged and accepted by the competent Gabonese authorities, pending completion of the legal proceedings. 10.
The owners of such vessels must notify the following information to the competent Gabonese authorities at least 24 hours in advance: - the names of the transhipping fishing vessels, - the names of the cargo vessels, - the tonnage by species to be transhipped, - the day of transhipment; 10.3.
Name of shipowner: 2.
Address of shipowner: 3.
Name of representative or agent: 4.
Address of shipowner's representative or local agent: ……………………………………………………………………………………….. 5.
Name of skipper: 6.
Name of vessel: 7.
Registration No: 8.
Flag country: 13.
Port of registration: 14.
Port of fitting out: 15.
Fishing gear: 23.
Communications equipment: 25.
Place of landing: 29.
Fishing zones: 30.
Actual weight at the time of unloading should be recorded. | 2 - At the end of each trip, forward a copy of the log to your correspondent or to the ICCAT, Calle Corazón de María, 8, 28002 Madrid, Spain. | 4 - Fishing area refers to the position of the boat.
Be sure to record N/S and E/W. | 6 - All information reported herein will be kept strictly confidential. | Appendix 3 Provisions applicable to satellite monitoring of Community fishing vessels operating in the Gabonese EEZ and on the basis of the EC/GABON Fisheries Agreement 1.
The Gabonese authorities shall transmit this information in electronic form, expressed in decimal degrees (WGS 84). 3.
The Parties shall exchange information on X.25 addresses and the specifications for electronic data transmission between their Control Centres in accordance with points 5 and 7.
The messages specified in point 5 shall be transmitted electronically in X.25 format, or any other secure protocol.
They shall be communicated in real time in the format set out in Table II. 7.
Where the continuous satellite monitoring equipment installed on board a fishing vessel develops a technical fault or breaks down, the skipper of the vessel shall transmit the information specified at 5 to the Control Centre of the flag State and the Gabonese FMC in good time.
This global position report shall include the position reports as recorded by the skipper of the vessel on a two-hourly basis in accordance with the requirements laid down in point 5.
After this deadline, the vessel in question must leave the Gabonese EEZ. 8.
If the Gabonese FMC establishes that the flag State FMC is not transmitting the information specified in point 5, the competent departments of the flag State FMC and the European Commission shall be informed immediately. 10.
Any dispute over the interpretation or application of these provisions shall be the subject of consultation between the Parties within the Joint Committee provided for in Article 9 of the Agreement. 14.
COMMUNICATION OF VMS MESSAGES TO GABON POSITION REPORT Data Element | Code | Mandatory/Optional | Comments | Start of record | SR | M | System detail – indicates start of record | Recipient | AD | M | Message detail – recipient.
Alpha 3 ISO country code | From | FR | M | Message detail – sender.
Alpha 3 ISO country code | Flag State | FS | O | Type of message | TM | M | Message detail – Message type "POS" | Radio call sign | RC | M | Vessel detail – international radio call sign of vessel | Contracting party internal reference number | IR | O | Vessel detail - unique contracting party number (ISO-3 code of flag State followed by number) | External registration number | XR | M | Vessel detail – number marked on side of vessel | Latitude | LA | M | Vessel position detail – position in degrees and minutes N/S DDMM (WGS-84) | Longitude | LO | M | Vessel position detail – position in degrees and minutes E/W DDMM (WGS-84) | Course | CO | M | Vessel course 360° scale | Speed | SP | M | Vessel speed in tenths of knots | Dates | DA | M | Vessel position detail – date of record of UTC position (YYYYMMDD) | Time | TI | M | Vessel position detail – time of record of UTC position (HHMM) | End of record | ER | M | System detail – indicates end of record | Character set: ISO 8859.1 Each data transmission is structured as follows: - a double slash (//) and field code indicate the start of the message; - a single slash (/) separates the field code and the data.
