Common Position (EC) No 8/2006 of 23 Febrruary 2006 adopted by the Council, acting in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 251 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, with a view to adopting a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down technical requirements for inland waterway vessels and repealing Council Directive 82/714/EEC Common Position (EC) No 8/2006 adopted by the Council on 23 February 2006 with a view to adopting a Directive 2006/…/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of … laying down technical requirements for inland waterway vessels and repealing Council Directive 82/714/EEC (2006/C 166 E/01) THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular Article 71(1) thereof, Having regard to the proposal from the Commission, Having regard to the opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee [1], Following consultation of the Committee of the Regions, Acting in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 251 of the Treaty [2], Whereas: (1) Council Directive 82/714/EEC of 4 October 1982 laying down technical requirements for inland waterway vessels [3] introduced harmonised conditions for issuing technical certificates for inland waterway vessels in all Member States, albeit excluding operations on the Rhine.
This Directive shall, in accordance with Article 1.01 of Annex II, apply to the following craft: (a) vessels having a length (L) of 20 metres or more; (b) vessels for which the product of length (L), breadth (B) and draught (T) is a volume of 100 m3 or more. 2.
This Directive shall also apply, in accordance with Article 1.01 of Annex II, to all of the following craft: (a) tugs and pushers intended for towing or pushing craft referred to in paragraph 1 or floating equipment or for moving such craft or floating equipment alongside; (b) vessels intended for passenger transport which carry more than 12 passengers in addition to the crew; (c) floating equipment. 3.
The following craft shall be excluded from this Directive: (a) ferries; (b) naval vessels; (c) sea-going vessels, including sea-going tugs and pusher craft, which: (i) operate or are based on tidal waters; (ii) operate temporarily on inland waterways, provided that they carry: - a certificate proving conformity with the 1974 International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea (SOLAS), or equivalent, a certificate proving conformity with the 1966 International Convention on Load Lines, or equivalent, and an international oil pollution prevention (IOPP) certificate proving conformity with the 1973 International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships (MARPOL), or - in the case of passenger vessels not covered by all of the Conventions referred to in the first indent, a certificate on safety rules and standards for passenger ships issued in conformity with Council Directive 98/18/EC of 17 March 1998 on safety rules and standards for passenger ships [7], or - in the case of recreational craft not covered by all of the Conventions referred to in the first indent, a certificate of the country of which it carries the flag.
However, all craft carrying the certificate referred to in paragraph 1 shall also be provided with a supplementary Community inland navigation certificate: (a) when operating on Zone 3 and 4 waterways, if they wish to take advantage of the reduction in technical requirements on those waterways; (b) when operating on Zone 1 and 2 waterways, or, in respect of passenger vessels, when operating on Zone 3 waterways that are not linked to the navigable inland waterways of another Member State, if the Member State concerned has adopted additional technical requirements for those waterways, in accordance with Article 5(1), (2) and (3). 3.
Each Member State may, after consulting the Commission, and where applicable subject to the requirements of the Revised Convention for Rhine Navigation, adopt technical requirements additional to those in Annex II for craft operating on Zone 1 and 2 waterways within its territory. 2.
The Commission shall be notified of these additional requirements at least six months before their entry into force and shall inform the other Member States. 4.
The Commission shall inform the Member States. (c) Compliance with the requirements of a Member State for operating on its non-linked inland waterways shall be specified in the Community inland navigation certificate referred to in Article 3 or, where Article 4(2) applies, in the supplementary Community inland navigation certificate. 6.
Craft operating only on Zone 4 waterways shall qualify for the reduced requirements as specified in Chapter 19b of Annex II on all waterways in that zone.
Such a reduction shall be restricted to the subjects listed in Annex IV.
Article 6 Dangerous goods Any craft carrying a certificate issued pursuant to the Regulation for the transport of dangerous substances on the Rhine (the ADNR) may carry dangerous goods throughout the territory of the Community under the conditions stated in that certificate.
Any Member State may require that craft which do not carry such a certificate shall only be authorised to carry dangerous goods within its territory if the craft comply with requirements additional to those set out in this Directive.
The Commission shall be notified of such requirements and shall inform the other Member States.
Member States may authorise derogations from all or part of this Directive for: (a) vessels, tugs, pushers and floating equipment operating on navigable waterways not linked by inland waterway to the waterways of other Member States; (b) craft having a dead weight not exceeding 350 tonnes or craft not intended for the carriage of goods and having a water displacement of less than 100 m3, which were laid down before 1 January 1950 and operate exclusively on a national waterway. 2.
Any Member State which, as a result of derogations authorised in accordance with paragraphs 1 and 2, has no craft subject to the provisions of this Directive operating on its waterways shall not be required to comply with Articles 9, 10 and 12.
The Community inland navigation certificate shall be issued to craft laid down as from … [8] following a technical inspection carried out prior to the craft being put into service and intended to check whether the craft complies with the technical requirements laid down in Annex II. 2.
The Community inland navigation certificate shall be issued to craft excluded from the scope of Directive 82/714/EEC, but covered by this Directive in accordance with Article 2(1) and (2), following a technical inspection which shall be carried out upon expiry of the craft's current certificate, but in any case no later than ….. [9], to check whether the craft complies with the technical requirements laid down in Annex II.
Provided that the competent authorities consider that these shortcomings do not constitute a manifest danger, the craft referred to in the first subparagraph may continue to operate until such time as those components or areas of the craft which have been certified as not meeting those requirements are replaced or altered, whereafter those components or areas shall meet the requirements of Annex II. 3.
Manifest danger within the meaning of this Article shall be presumed in particular when requirements concerning the structural soundness of the shipbuilding, the navigation or manoeuvrability or special features of the craft in accordance with Annex II are affected.
Each Member State shall draw up a list indicating which of its authorities are competent for issuing the Community inland navigation certificates and shall notify the Commission thereof.
The Commission shall inform the other Member States.
The technical inspection referred to in Article 8 shall be carried out by the competent authorities which may refrain from subjecting the craft in whole or in part to technical inspection where it is evident from a valid attestation, issued by a recognised classification society in accordance with Article 1.01 of Annex II, that the craft satisfies in whole or in part the technical requirements of Annex II.
Classification societies shall only be recognised if they fulfil the criteria listed in Part I of Annex VII. 2.
The Commission shall inform the other Member States.
Each Member State may, in the cases specified in Articles 12 and 16 and in Annex II, issue provisional Community inland navigation certificates.
Article 12 Replacement of Community inland navigation certificates Each Member State shall lay down the conditions under which a valid Community inland navigation certificate which has been lost or damaged may be replaced.
Article 14 Extension of validity of Community inland navigation certificates The validity of a Community inland navigation certificate may exceptionally be extended without a technical inspection in accordance with Annex II by the authority which issued or renewed it.
Article 16 Refusal to issue or renew, and withdrawal of, Community inland navigation certificates Any decision to refuse to issue or renew a Community inland navigation certificate shall state the grounds on which it is based.
Any valid Community inland navigation certificate may be withdrawn by the competent authority which issued or renewed it if the craft ceases to comply with the technical requirements specified in its certificate.
Article 17 Additional inspections The competent authorities of a Member State may, in accordance with Annex VIII, check at any time whether a craft is carrying a certificate valid under the terms of this Directive and satisfies the requirements set out in such certificate or constitutes a manifest danger for the persons on board, the environment or the navigation.
The competent authorities shall take the necessary measures in accordance with Annex VIII.
Article 18 Recognition of navigability certificates of craft from third countries Pending the conclusion of agreements on the mutual recognition of navigability certificates between the Community and third countries, the competent authorities of a Member State may recognise the navigability certificates of craft from third countries for navigation on the waterways of that Member State.
Article 19 Committee procedure 1.
Any amendments which are necessary to adapt the annexes to this Directive to technical progress or to developments in this area arising from the work of other international organisations, in particular that of the Central Commission for Navigation on the Rhine (CCNR), to ensure that the two certificates referred to in Article 3(1)(a) are issued on the basis of technical requirements which guarantee an equivalent level of safety, or to take account of the cases referred to in Article 5, shall be adopted by the Commission in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 19(2).
Article 21 Continued applicability of Directive 76/135/EEC For those craft outside the scope of Article 2(1) and (2) of this Directive, but falling within the scope of Article 1(a) of Directive 76/135/EEC, the provisions of that Directive shall apply.
Article 22 National additional or reduced requirements Additional requirements which were in force in a Member State before … [8] for craft operating within its territory on Zone 1 and 2 waterways or reduced technical requirements for craft operating within its territory on Zone 3 and 4 waterways which were in force in a Member State before that date shall continue to be in force until additional requirements in accordance with Article 5(1) or reductions in accordance with Article 5(7) of the technical prescriptions of Annex II come into force, but only until … [11].
The Commission shall inform the other Member States thereof.
Article 25 Repeal of Directive 82/714/EEC Directive 82/714/EEC shall be repealed with effect from … [8].
Article 26 Entry into force This Directive shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Article 27 Addressees This Directive is addressed to the Member States which have inland waterways as referred to in Article 1(1).
Done at, … For the European Parliament, The President … For the Council, The President … [1] OJ C 157, 25.5.1998, p. 17. [2] Opinion of the European Parliament of 16 September 1999 (OJ C 54, 25.2.2000, p. 79), Council Common Position of 23 February 2006 and Position of the European Parliament of … (not yet published in the Official Journal). [3] OJ L 301, 28.10.1982, p. 1.
Directive as last amended by the 2003 Act of Accession. [4] OJ L 184, 17.7.1999, p. 23. [5] OJ L 21, 29.1.1976, p. 10.
Directive as amended by Directive 78/1016/EEC (OJ L 349, 13.12.1978, p. 31). [6] OJ C 321, 31.12.2003, p. 1. [7] OJ L 144, 15.5.1998, p. 1.
Directive as last amended by Commission Directive 2003/75/EC (OJ L 190, 30.7.2003, p. 6). [8] 2 years after the date of entry into force of this Directive. [9] 12 years after the date of entry into force of this Directive. [10] OJ L 373, 31.12.1991, p. 29.
Article 2.02 Request for an inspection 1.
Article 2.03 Presentation of the craft for inspection 1.
That provision shall also apply during the building of the craft.
Article 2.04 (Left void) Article 2.05 Provisional Community certificate 1.
The competent authority may issue a provisional Community certificate: (a) to craft intended to travel to a certain place with the permission of the competent authority in order to obtain a Community certificate; (b) to craft whose Community certificate has been temporarily withdrawn in one of the instances referred to in Article 2.07 or in Articles 12 and 16 of this Directive; (c) to craft whose Community certificate is in preparation following a successful inspection; (d) to craft where not all of the conditions required for obtaining a Community certificate as set out in Part I of Annex V have been met; (e) to craft so damaged that their state no longer complies with the Community certificate; (f) to floating installations or equipment where the authorities responsible for special transport operations make the authorisation to carry out a special transport operation, as provided for by the applicable navigational authority regulations of the Member States, subject to obtaining such a Community certificate; (g) to craft deviating from the provisions of Part II, as provided for in Article 2.19( 2). 2.
This shall include the conditions considered necessary by the competent authority and shall be valid: (a) in the cases referred to in paragraph 1(a), (d) to (f), for a single specific trip to be made within a suitable period that shall not exceed one month; (b) in the cases referred to in paragraph 1(b) and (c), for an appropriate duration; (c) in the cases referred to in paragraph 1(g), for six months.
Article 2.06 Validity of the Community certificate 1.
The validity period of Community certificates issued to newly built vessels in accordance with the provisions of this Directive shall be determined by the competent authority up to a maximum of: (a) five years in the case of passenger vessels; (b) 10 years in the case of all other craft.
In the case of vessels already in operation before the inspection, the competent authority shall set the period of validity of the Community certificate case by case, in the light of the results of the inspection.
Article 2.07 Particulars in and amendments to the Community certificate 1.
Article 2.08 (Left void) Article 2.09 Periodical inspection 1.
Article 2.11 (Left void) Article 2.12 (Left void) Article 2.13 (Left void) Article 2.14 (Left void) Article 2.15 Expenses The owner of a craft, or his representative, shall bear all of the costs arising from the inspection of the vessel and the issue of the Community certificate in accordance with a special set of charges drawn up by each of the Member States.
Article 2.17 Register of Community certificates 1.
Article 2.18 Official number 1.
The owner of a craft, or his representative, shall apply to the competent authorities for assignment of the official number.
Article 2.19 Equivalences and derogations 1.
for vessels that are longer than 40 m: tmin = f · b · c (2,3 + 0,04 L) (mm); for vessels not more than 40 m in length: tmin = f · b · c (1,5 + 0,06 L) (mm), however, not less than 3.00 mm 2.
tmin= 0,005 · aTmm where: a = frame spacing (mm); f f = 1 for a ≤ 500 mm f = 1 + 0,0013 (a — 500) for a %gt% 500 mm b b = 1,0 for bottom plates and side plates b = 1,25 for bilge plates.
Article 3.03 Hull 1.
Bulkheads rising up to the deck or, where there is no deck, up to the gunwale, shall be installed at the following points: (a) A collision bulkhead at a suitable distance from the bow in such a way that the buoyancy of the laden vessel is ensured, with a residual safety clearance of 100 mm if water enters the watertight compartment ahead of the collision bulkhead.
As a general rule, the requirement referred to in paragraph 1 shall be considered to have been met if the collision bulkhead has been installed at a distance of between 0,04 L and 0,04 L + 2 m measured from the forward perpendicular in the plane of maximum draught.
If this distance exceeds 0,04 L + 2 m, the requirement set out in paragraph 1 shall be proved by calculation.
The distance may be reduced to 0,03 L.
The maximum permissible sound pressure level in the engine rooms shall be 110 dB(A).
The safety clearance shall be at least 300 mm. 2.
Article 4.02 Freeboard 1.
The freeboard of vessels with a continuous deck, without sheer and superstructures, shall be 150 mm. 2.
In no case will a value exceeding 0,36 m be taken for h.
Coefficients βv and βa are calculated using the following formulae: βv= 1 –3 · levLβa= 1 –3 · leaL 5.
The effective aft/forward sheers Sev/Sea are calculated using the following formulae: Sev = Sv · p Sea = Sa · p where: Sv is the actual forward sheer, in mm; however Sv shall not be taken to be more than 1000 mm; Sa is the actual aft sheer, in mm; however Sa may not be taken to be more than 500 mm; p is a coefficient calculated using the following formula:p = 4 ·xL +++++ TIFF +++++ x is the abscissa, measured from the extremity of the point where the sheer is 0,25 Sv or 0,25 Sa (see figure).Sv or Sa0,25 Sv or 0,25 Sa However, coefficient p will not be taken to be more than 1. 6.
Article 4.04 Draught marks 1.
The plane of maximum draught shall be determined at least for Zone 3. 2.
However, (a) where a vessel is less than 40 m in length it will suffice to affix two pairs of marks at a distance from the bow and stern, respectively, that is equal to a quarter of the length; (b) where vessels are not intended for the carriage of goods, a pair of marks located roughly halfway along the vessel will suffice. 5.
If a draught mark should disappear, it may only be replaced under the supervision of an inspection body. 6.
Where a vessel has been measured in implementation of the 1966 Convention on the Measurement of Inland Navigation Vessels and the plane of the measurement marks meets the requirements of this Directive, those measurement marks shall take the place of the draught marks; this shall be mentioned in the Community certificate. 7.
For vessels operating on zones of inland waterways other than Zone 3 (Zones 1, 2 or 4) the bow and stern pairs of draught marks provided for in paragraph 4 shall be supplemented by adding a vertical line to which one or, in the case of several zones, several additional draught lines 150 mm long shall be affixed towards the bow, in relation to the draught mark for Zone 3.
This vertical line and the horizontal line shall be 30 mm thick.
That graduation shall be located on each scale, from the unladen water line up to 100 mm above the maximum draught by means of punched or chiselled marks, and shall be painted in the form of a highly-visible band in two alternating colours.
CHAPTER 5 MANOEUVRABILITY Article 5.01 General Vessels and convoys shall display adequate navigability and manoeuvrability.
Powered vessels and convoys shall meet the requirements set out in Articles 5.02 to 5.10.
Article 5.02 Navigation tests 1.
Compliance with the requirements of Articles 5.06 to 5.10 shall, in particular, be examined. 2.
Article 5.03 Test area 1.
Article 5.04 Degree of loading of vessels and convoys during navigation tests During navigation tests, vessels and convoys intended to carry goods shall be loaded to at least 70 % of their tonnage and loading, distributed in such a way as to ensure a horizontal attitude as far as possible.
During the navigation test, all of the equipment referred to in items 34 and 52 of the Community certificate which may be actuated from the wheelhouse may be used, apart from anchors. 2.
Article 5.06 Prescribed (forward) speed 1.
The inspection body shall check if the unladen vessel is capable of exceeding a speed of 40 km/h in relation to water.
The stopping capacity shall be proved by means of stopping manoeuvres carried out within a test area as referred to in Article 5.03 and the turning capacity by turning manoeuvres in accordance with Article 5.10.
Article 5.09 Capacity for taking evasive action Vessels and convoys shall be able to take evasive action in good time.
That capacity shall be proven by means of evasive manoeuvres carried out within a test area as referred to in Article 5.03.
That turning capacity may be replaced by the stopping capacity referred to in Article 5.07.
The turning capacity shall be proven by means of turning manoeuvres against the current.
CHAPTER 6 STEERING SYSTEM Article 6.01 General requirements 1.
Vessels shall be fitted with a reliable steering system which provides at least the manoeuvrability required by Chapter 5. 2.
Article 6.02 Steering apparatus drive unit 1.
The second drive unit or manual drive shall ensure the manoeuvrability required by Chapter 5 as well.
Article 6.05 Manual drive 1.
Article 6.06 Rudder-propeller, water-jet, cycloidal-propeller and bow-thruster systems 1.
Where the thrust vectoring of rudder-propeller, water-jet, cycloidal-propeller or bow-thruster installations is remotely actuated by electric, hydraulic or pneumatic means, there shall be two actuation systems, each independent of the other, between the wheelhouse and the propeller- or thruster-installation which, mutatis mutandis, meet the requirements of Articles 6.01 to 6.05.
Article 6.07 Indicators and monitoring devices 1.
The rudder position shall be clearly displayed at the steering position.
The proper functioning of the rate-of-turn regulator shall be displayed at the steering position by means of a green indicating light.
Article 6.09 Acceptance procedure 1.
CHAPTER 7 WHEELHOUSE Article 7.01 General 1.
Article 7.02 Unobstructed view 1.
The height of the lower edge of the side windows shall be kept as low as possible and the height of the upper edge of the side and rear windows shall be kept as high as possible.
In determining whether the requirements in this Article for visibility from the wheelhouse are met, the helmsman shall be assumed to have a height of eye of 1650 mm above the deck at the steering position. 4.
The upper edge of the forward facing windows of the wheelhouse shall be high enough to allow a person at the steering position with height of eye of 1800 mm a clear forward view to at least 10 degrees above the horizontal at eye-level height. 5.
The glazing used in wheelhouses shall be made of safety glass and have a light transmission of at least 75 %.
The neutral position of the lever shall be clearly perceptible. 6.
Article 7.05 Navigation lights, light signals and sound signals 1.
That requirement shall not apply to the "do not approach" signal in accordance with the applicable navigational authority regulations of the Member States. 5.
Article 7.06 Radar installations and rate-of-turn indicators 1.
The sound pressure level for the alarm signal shall be at least 75 dB(A) within the accommodation area.
Article 7.11 Stern-anchor operating equipment On board vessels and convoys whose wheelhouse has been designed for radar navigation by one person and exceeding 86 m in length or 22,90 m in breadth it shall be possible for the helmsman to drop the stern anchors from his position.
Only internal-combustion engines burning fuels having a flashpoint of more than 55 oC may be installed.
Article 8.04 Engine exhaust system 1.
Article 8.05 Fuel tanks, pipes and accessories 1.
These requirements shall not apply to tanks having a capacity of no more than 12 litres that have been incorporated in auxiliaries during their manufacture.
The filler orifices for fuel tanks shall be marked distinctly. 6.
The cross-section of the breather pipe shall be at least 1,25 times the cross-section of the filler neck.
If tanks are interconnected, the cross-section of the connecting pipe shall be at least 1,25 times the cross-section of the filler neck. 7.
The fuel pipes shall not be subjected to any adverse influence of heat and it shall be possible to inspect them throughout their length. 9.
Fuel tanks shall be provided with a suitable capacity-gauging device.
Glass gauges shall be effectively protected against impacts, shall be fitted with an automatic closing device at their base and their upper end shall be connected to the tanks above their maximum filling level.
If fuel tanks are fitted with an automatic shut-off device, the sensors shall stop fuelling when the tank is 97 % full; this equipment shall meet the "failsafe" requirements.
Lubricating oil tanks and their pipework and other accessories shall be laid out and arranged in such a way that neither lubricating oil nor lubricating oil vapour may accidentally reach the inside of the vessel. 3.
The filler orifices for lubricating oil tanks shall be marked distinctly. 6.
The pipes shall not be subjected to any adverse influence of heat and it shall be possible to inspect them throughout their length. 7.
Lubricating oil tanks shall be provided with a suitable capacity-gauging device.
Glass gauges shall be effectively protected against impacts, shall be fitted with an automatic closing device at their base and their upper end shall be connected to the tanks above their maximum filling level.
Such oil tanks and their pipework and other accessories shall be laid out and arranged in such a way that neither such oil nor such oil vapour may accidentally reach the inside of the vessel. 3.
Glass gauges shall be effectively protected against impacts, shall be fitted with an automatic closing device at their base and their upper end shall be connected to the tanks above their maximum filling level.
Article 8.08 Bilge pumping and drainage systems 1.
However, for vessels with a power of less than 225 kW or with a deadweight of less than 350 t, or where vessels not intended for the carriage of goods have a displacement of less than 250 m3, one pump will suffice which can be either manually-operated or motor-driven.
The minimum pumping capacity Q1 of the first bilge pump shall be calculated using the following formula: Q1 = 0,1 · d12 (1/min) d1 is calculated via the formula: d1= 1,5 ·LB + H+ 25mm The minimum pumping capacity Q2 of the second bilge pump shall be calculated using the following formula: Q2 = 0,1 · d22 (l/min) d2 is calculated using the formula: d2= 2 ·lB + H+ 25mm However, the value d2 need not exceed value d1.
In these formulae: l is the length of the watertight compartment in question, in (m); d1 is the calculated internal diameter of the main drainage pipe, in (mm); d2 is the calculated internal diameter of the branch pipe, in (mm). 4.
There shall be at least one suction on both the starboard and port sides of all flat-bottomed, drainable compartments that are wider than 5 m. 7.
It may be possible to drain the aft peak via the main engine room by means of an easily accessible, automatically closable fitting. 8.
Article 8.10 Noise emitted by vessels 1.
CHAPTER 8a (Left void) CHAPTER 9 ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT Article 9.01 General 1.
Article 9.03 Protection against physical contact, intrusion of solid objects and the ingress of water The type of minimum protection for permanently installed parts of an installation shall be as set out in the following table: Location | Type of minimum protection (in accordance with IEC publ. 60529: 1992) | Generators | Motors | Trans-formers | Panels Distributors Switches | Fittings | Lighting equipment | Operation rooms, engine rooms, steering-gear compartments | IP 22 | IP 22 | IP [2] 22 | IP [1] [2] 22 | IP 44 | IP 22 | Holds | | | | | IP 55 | IP 55 | Battery and paint lockers | | | | | | IP 44 u. (Ex) [3] | Free decks and open steering positions | | IP 55 | | IP 55 | IP 55 | IP 55 | Wheelhouse | | IP 22 | IP 22 | IP 22 | IP 22 | IP 22 | Accommodation apart from sanitary facilities and washrooms | | | | IP 22 | IP 20 | IP 20 | Sanitary facilities and washrooms | | IP 44 | IP 44 | IP 44 | IP 55 | IP 44 | Article 9.04 Protection from explosion Only explosion-proof electrical equipment (certified safety) may be installed in spaces where potentially explosive gases or mixtures of gases are likely to accumulate, such as compartments dedicated for accumulators or the storage of highly inflammable products.
Article 9.05 Earthing 1.
Systems under a voltage of more than 50 V need to be earthed. 2.
The cross-sections of the earthing conductors shall be not less than given in the following table: Cross-section of outside conductors (mm2) | Minimum cross-section of earthing conductors | within insulated cables (mm2) | fitted separately (mm2) | from 0,5 to 4 | same cross-section as that of the outside conductor | 4 | more than 4 to 16 | same cross-section as that of the outside conductor | same cross-section as that of the outside conductor | more than 16 to 35 | 16 | 16 | more than 35 to 120 | half of the cross-section of the outside conductor | half of the cross-section of the outside conductor | more than 120 | 70 | 70 | Article 9.06 Maximum permissible voltages 1.
The following voltages shall not be exceeded: Type of installation | Maximum permissible voltage | Direct current | Single-phase alternating current | Three-phase alternating current | a.Power and heating installations including the sockets for general use | 250 V | 250 V | 500 V | b.Lighting, communications, command and information installations including the sockets for general use | 250 V | 250 V | - | c.Sockets intended to supply portable devices used on open decks or within narrow or damp metal lockers, apart from boilers and tanks: | | | | 1.In general | 50 V [4] | 50 V [4] | - | 2.Where a protective circuit-separation transformer only supplies one appliance | - | 250 V [5] | - | 3.Where protective-insulation (double insulation) appliances are used | 250 V | 250 V | - | 4.Where ≤ 30 mA default current circuit breakers are used. | - | 250 V | 500 V | d.Mobile power consumers such as electrical equipment for containers, motors, blowers and mobile pumps which are not normally moved during service and whose conducting parts which are open to physical contact are earthed by means of an earthing conductor that is incorporated into the connecting cable and which, in addition to that earthing conductor, are connected to the hull by their specific positioning or by an additional conductor | 250 V | 250 V | 500 V | e.Sockets intended to supply portable appliances used inside boilers and tanks | 50 V [4] | 50 V [4] | - | 2.
Article 9.08 Connection to shore or other external networks 1.
The hull shall be capable of being earthed effectively when the connection voltage exceeds 50 V.
Article 9.09 Power supply to other craft 1.
If power sockets rated at more than 16 A are used to supply current to other craft, devices (such as switches or interlocks) shall be provided to ensure that connection and disconnection can take place only when the line is dead. 2.
Article 9.08, paragraphs 3 to 7, shall apply mutatis mutandis.
Article 9.10 Generators and motors 1.
Article 9.11 Accumulators 1.
They may also be installed in an engine room or any other well-ventilated space provided that they are protected against falling objects and dripping water. 3.
The required air throughput (Q) shall be calculated using the following formula: Q = 0,11 · I · n (m3/h) where: I = 14 of the maximum current, in A, provided by the charging device; n = the number of cells.
However, the cross-section shall be at least 80 cm2 for lead-acid accumulators and 120 cm2 for nickel-cadmium accumulators. 7.
Switches shall simultaneously cut off all live conductors.
Switches shall simultaneously switch all non-earthed conductors within a circuit.
Where amperage exceeds 16 A it shall be possible to lock the sockets by means of a switch in such a way that the plug can only be inserted and withdrawn with the power switched off.
Article 9.15 Cables 1.
When cables pass through bulkheads or decks, the mechanical strength, watertightness and fire resistance of these bulkheads and decks shall not be affected by the penetrations. 9.
Article 9.16 Lighting installations 1.
When two or more lighting appliances are installed in an engine room or boiler room, they shall be supplied by at least two different circuits.
Article 9.17 Navigation lights 1.
However, it shall not be possible to use both light sources in a double light (two lights mounted one above the other or in the same housing) simultaneously.
Article 9.20 Electronic equipment 1.
If no clear resonance emerges the vibration test shall be carried out at 30 Hz.
Vessels intended for the carriage of goods, apart from ship-borne lighters whose length L does not exceed 40m, shall be equipped with bow anchors whose total mass P is obtained using the following formula: P = k · B · T (kg) where k is a coefficient that takes account of the relationship between length L and beam B, and of the type of vessel:k = cL8 · B for lighters, however, k = c will be taken; Dead-weight tonnage in t | Coefficient c | up to 400 inclusive | 45 | from 400 to 650 inclusive | 55 | from 650 to 1000 inclusive | 65 | more than 1000 | 70 | c On vessels whose dead-weight tonnage is not greater than 400 t and which, owing to their design and intended purpose, are used only on predetermined short-haul sections, the inspection body may accept that only two-thirds of total mass P is required for the bow anchors. 2.
Passenger vessels and vessels not intended for the carriage of goods, apart from pushers, shall be fitted with bow anchors whose total mass P is obtained using the following formula: P = k · B · T (kg) where: k is the coefficient corresponding to paragraph 1, but where in order to obtain the value of the empirical coefficient (c) the water displacement in m3 entered in the Community certificate shall be taken instead of the deadweight tonnage. 3.
Vessels referred to in paragraph 1 whose maximum length does not exceed 86 m shall be equipped with stern anchors whose total mass is equal to 25 % of mass P.
Vessels whose maximum length exceeds 86 m shall be equipped with stern anchors whose total mass is equal to 50 % of mass P calculated in accordance with paragraph 1 or 2.
Vessels intended to propel rigid convoys which do not exceed 86 m in length shall be equipped with stern anchors whose total mass is equal to 25 % of maximum mass P calculated in accordance with paragraph1 for the formations (considered to be a nautical unit) permitted and entered in the Community certificate.
The total mass P specified for bow anchors may be distributed between one or two anchors.
The total mass required for stern anchors for pushers and vessels whose maximum length exceeds 86 m may be distributed between one or two anchors.
However, where vessels need to stop facing downstream they shall have stern anchor chains that are each at least 60 m in length. 11.
Article 10.02 Other equipment 1.
The cables shall have a tensile strength Rs that is calculated using the following formulae; for L · B · T up to 1000 m3: Rs= 60 +L · B · T10kN; for L · B · T exceeding 1000 m3: Rs= 150 +L · B · T100kN.
However, the main cable shall be at least 100 m long and have a tensile strength, in kN, not less than one third of the total power, in kW, of the main engine(s).
There shall be at least one portable fire extinguisher in accordance with European standard EN 3:1996 at each of the following places: (a) in the wheelhouse; (b) close to each entrance from the deck to accommodation spaces; (c) close to each entrance to service spaces which are not accessible from the accommodation spaces and which contain heating, cooking or refrigeration equipment using solid or liquid fuels or liquefied gas; (d) at each entrance to engine rooms and boiler rooms; (e) at suitable points below deck in engine rooms and boiler rooms such that no position in the space is more than 10 metres walking distance away from an extinguisher. 2.
For the portable fire extinguishers required by paragraph 1, only powder-type extinguishers with a content of at least 6 kg or other portable fire extinguishers with the same extinguishing capacity may be used.
They shall be suitable for Class A, B and C fires and for fires in electrical systems of up to 1000 V. 3.
In addition powder, water or foam fire extinguishers may be used which are suitable at least for the class of fire most likely to occur in the room for which they are intended. 4.
The content of these fire extinguishers shall be no more than 1 kg per 15 m3 of the room in which they are made available for use. 5.
Article 10.03a Permanently installed fire-fighting systems in accommodation spaces, wheelhouses and passenger spaces 1.
The systems shall be able to spray water at a rate of at least 5 l/m2 per minute over the area of the largest room to be protected. 5.
The number of installed systems shall be entered in the Community certificate. 10.
Other extinguishing agents shall be permissible only in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 19(2) of this Directive. 2.
Fire alarm system The room to be protected shall be monitored by means of an appropriate fire alarm system.
The alarm shall be noticeable in the wheelhouse, the accommodation spaces and the room to be protected. 4.
Piping system (a) The extinguishing agent shall be conveyed to the room to be protected and distributed there by means of a fixed piping system.
Pipes shall be both internally and externally protected against corrosion. (b) Outlet nozzles shall be dimensioned and fitted such that the extinguishing agent is evenly distributed. 5.
These energy sources shall be located outside the room to be protected.
Control lines in the room to be protected shall be designed so as to remain functional for at least 30 minutes in the event of fire.
Direct connections to other rooms are not permitted. 8.
Quantity of extinguishing agent If the quantity of extinguishing agent is intended for protecting more than one room, the total amount of extinguishing agent available does not need to be greater than the quantity necessary for the largest room to be protected. 9.
CO2 fire-fighting systems Fire-fighting systems using CO2 as the extinguishing agent shall comply with the following provisions in addition to the requirements under paragraphs1 to 9: (a) CO2 containers shall be housed outside the room to be protected in a space or cabinet hermetically separated from other rooms.
HFC-227ea — fire-fighting systems Fire-fighting systems using HFC-227ea as the extinguishing agent shall comply with the following provisions in addition to the requirements under paragraphs 1 to 9: (a) if there are several rooms to be protected, each with a different gross volume, each room shall be provided with its own fire-fighting system; (b) each container of HFC-227ea that is installed in the room to be protected shall be equipped with an overpressure relief valve.
IG-541 — fire-fighting systems Fire-fighting systems using IG-541 as the extinguishing agent shall comply with the following provisions in addition to the requirements under paragraphs 1 to 9: (a) if there are several rooms to be protected, each with a different gross volume, each room shall be provided with its own fire-fighting system; (b) each container of IG-541 that is installed in the room to be protected shall be equipped with an overpressure relief valve.
This volume shall be supplied within 120 seconds. 13.
Article 10.04 Ship's boats 1.
The following craft shall carry a ship's boat according to European standard EN 1914: 1997: (a) motor vessels and barges exceeding 150 t deadweight; (b) tugs and pushers with a water displacement of more than 150 m3; (c) floating equipment; (d) passenger vessels. 2.
It shall be possible for one person to launch such ship's boats safely within five minutes from the first manual action necessary.
CHAPTER 11 SAFETY AT WORK STATIONS Article 11.01 General 1.
Article 11.02 Protection against falling 1.
Article 11.04 Side decks 1.
The clear width of a side deck shall be at least 0,60 m.
Up to a height of 0,90 m above the side deck, the clear width of the side deck may be reduced to 0,54 m provided that the clear width above, between the outer edge of the hull and the inner edge of the hold, is not less than 0,65 m.
They shall be protected against accidental opening or closing. 3.
This requirement shall not apply to emergency exits. 5.
By way of derogation from the first sentence the permanently installed means of access may be dispensed with if at least two movable ladders are provided which reach at least 3 rungs over the hatch coaming at an angle of inclination of 60o.
Article 11.06 Exits and emergency exits 1.
Emergency exits or windows or the covers of skylights to be used as emergency exits shall have a clear opening of not less than 0,36 m2, and the smallest dimension shall be not less than 0,50 m.
Ladders and separately attached rungs shall have a clear width of not less than 0,30 m; rungs shall be not more than 0,30 m apart and the distance between rungs and structures shall be not less than 0,15 m. 3.
Movable ladders shall be at least 0,40 m wide, and at least 0,50 m wide at the base; it shall be possible to ensure that they will not topple or skid; the rungs shall be securely fixed in the uprights.
Article 11.08 Interior spaces 1.
Article 11.09 Protection against noise and vibration 1.
For crew members who are likely to be exposed to noise levels exceeding 85 dB(A) every day individual acoustic protection devices shall be available.
In working spaces where noise levels exceed 90 dB(A) it shall be indicated that wearing of acoustic protection devices is mandatory by a symbol "Wear acoustic protection device" with a diameter of at least 10 cm in accordance with Figure 7 of Appendix I.
Article 11.10 Hatch covers 1.
Article 11.11 Winches 1.
Article 11.12 Cranes 1.
The outer parts of the crane shall leave a safety clearance of 0,5 m upwards, downwards and to the sides, between them and all surrounding objects.
The tensile strength of the cables for running rigging shall correspond to five times the cable's permissible loading.
Where a crane's safe working load does not exceed 2000 kg the expert may decide that the proof by calculation may be fully or partly replaced by a test with a load 1,25 times the safe working load carried out over the full working range.
Every 10 years, at the latest, after the acceptance test the crane shall again be inspected by an expert recognised by the inspection body. 9.
Cranes with a safe working load exceeding 2000 kg, or which are used for transhipment of cargo, or which are mounted on board lifting jacks, pontoons and other floating equipment or worksite craft shall in addition meet the requirements of one of the Member States. 10.
CHAPTER 12 ACCOMMODATION Article 12.01 General 1.
Article 12.02 Special design requirements for accommodation 1.
Emergency exits, which may include skylights and windows, shall have a clear opening of at least 0,36 m2 and a shortest side no less than 0,50 m and permit rapid evacuation in an emergency.
Insulation and cladding of escape routes shall be made of flame-retardant materials and the usability of escape routes shall be guaranteed at all times by appropriate means such as ladders or separately attached rungs. 5.
Accommodation shall be protected against inadmissible noise and vibration.
Sound pressure levels shall not exceed: (a) 70 dB(A) in communal living quarters; (b) 60 dB(A) in sleeping quarters.
The free floor area of communal living quarters shall be not less than 2 m2 per person, and in any event not less than 8 m2 in total (not counting furniture, except tables and chairs). 9.
The volume of airspace per person shall be at least 3,5 m3 in private living quarters.
Doors shall have an opening whose upper edge is at least 1,90 m above deck or above the floor and a clear width of at least 0,60 m.
They shall be deemed to be so when: (a) they are at least 0,60 m wide; (b) the tread is at least 0,15 m deep; (c) the steps are non-slip; (d) stairways with more than three steps are fitted with at least one handrail or handle. 13.
Article 12.03 Sanitary installations 1.
Toilet compartments shall have a floor space of at least 1 m2, not less than 0,75 m wide and not less than 1,10 m long.
Article 12.04 Galleys 1.
Seats shall be not less than 0,60 m wide.
The internal measurements of the berth shall be not less than 2,00 × 0,90 m. 2.
All accommodation areas shall be fitted with electric lighting.
Lighting devices using liquid fuel shall be made of metal and shall burn only fuels with a flash point above 55 oC or commercial paraffin oil.
CHAPTER 13 FUEL-FIRED HEATING, COOKING AND REFRIGERATING EQUIPMENT Article 13.01 General 1.
The supply of air necessary for combustion shall be ensured. 5.
Article 13.02 Use of liquid fuels, oil-fired equipment 1.
By way of derogation fromparagraph 1, cooking appliances and heating and refrigeration appliances fitted with burners with wicks and running on commercial paraffin oil may be permitted in the accommodation and wheelhouse provided the capacity of the fuel tank does not exceed 12 litres. 3.
Article 13.03 Vaporising oil burner stoves and atomising oil burner heating appliances 1.
Vaporising oil burner stoves and atomising oil burner heating appliances shall be built in accordance with best practice. 2.
Article 13.04 Vaporising oil burner stoves 1.
For vaporising oil burner stoves installed in an engine room, the sides of the metal drip pan prescribed in paragraph 1 shall be at least 200 mm high.
In addition, the upper edge of the drip pan shall extend at least 100 mm above the floor. 3.
The flues of vaporising oil burner stoves shall be fitted with a device to prevent draught inversion.
Article 13.07 Solid fuel heating 1.
CHAPTER 14 LIQUEFIED GAS INSTALLATIONS FOR DOMESTIC PURPOSES Article 14.01 General 1.
Article 14.03 Receptacles 1.
Pressure regulators, or in case of two-stage regulation the first pressure regulator, shall be fitted to a wall in the same cupboard as the receptacles. 2.
Article 14.05 Spare and empty receptacles Spare and empty receptacles not located in the supply unit shall be stored outside the accommodation and the wheelhouse in a cupboard built in accordance with Article 14.04.
All pressure regulators shall be set permanently at a pressure determined in accordance with Article 14.07. 2.
Article 14.07 Pressure 1.
The pressure at the outlet from the last pressure regulator shall be not more than 0,05 bar above atmospheric pressure, with a tolerance of 10 %.
Article 14.08 Piping and flexible tubes 1.
Pipes shall be able to withstand any stresses, in particular regarding corrosion and strength, which may occur under normal operating conditions on board and their characteristics and layout shall be such that they ensure a satisfactory flow of gas at the appropriate pressure to the gas-consuming appliances. 3.
It shall be ensured using a closing device that in pressure tests the pressure regulator is not exposed to the test pressure.
Article 14.10 Gas-consuming appliances and their installation 1.
In rooms containing gas-consuming appliances in which combustion depends on ambient air, fresh air shall be supplied and combustion gases evacuated by means of ventilation apertures of adequate dimensions, with a clear section of at least 150 cm2 per aperture. 2.
Article 14.14 Tests Tests on the installation shall be carried out under the following conditions: 1.
Medium-pressure pipes between the closing device, referred to in Article 14.09 (4), of the first pressure regulator and the valves fitted before the final pressure regulator: (a) pressure test, carried out with air, an inert gas or a liquid at a pressure 20 bar above atmospheric pressure; (b) tightness test, carried out with air or an inert gas at a pressure 3,5 bar above atmospheric pressure. 2.
Pipes at the service pressure between the closing device, referred to in Article 14.09(4), of the only pressure regulator or the final pressure regulator and the valves fitted before the gas-consuming appliances: tightness test, carried out with air or an inert gas at a pressure of 1 bar above atmospheric pressure. 3.
Pipes situated between the closing device, referred to in Article 14.09 (4), of the only pressure regulator or the final pressure regulator and the controls of gas-consuming appliances: tightness test at a pressure of 0,15 bar above atmospheric pressure. 4.
It may be renewed only after a further acceptance test carried out in accordance with Article 14.13.
Exceptionally, where the owner of a vessel or his representative submits a reasoned request, the inspection body may extend the validity of the attestation for not more than three months without carrying out the acceptance test referred to in Article 14.13.
The following provisions shall not apply: (a) Article 3.02(1)(b); (b) Articles 4.01 to 4.03; (c) Article 8.08(2), second sentence, and paragraph 7; (d) Article 9.14(3), second sentence, for rated voltages of over 50V. 2.
If the application of provisions of this Chapter which take into account the specific safety needs of persons with reduced mobility is difficult in practice or incurs unreasonable costs, the inspection body may allow derogations from these provisions on the basis of recommendations in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 19(2) of this Directive.
In the course of the inspections referred to in Article 2.09, the thickness of the outside plating of steel passenger vessels shall be determined as follows: (a) the minimum thickness tmin of the bottom, bilge and side plating of the outer hull of passenger vessels is determined in accordance with the larger value of the following formulae: t1min= 0,006 · a ·Tmm; t2min= f · 0,55 ·LWLmm.
In these formulae: f = 1 + 0,0013 · (a — 500); a = longitudinal or transverse frame spacing (mm), and where the frame spacing is less than 400 mm, a = 400 mm should be entered; (b) it is permissible to fall short of the minimum value determined in accordance with (a) above for the plate thickness in cases where the permitted value has been determined and certified on the basis of a mathematical proof for the sufficient strength (longitudinal, transverse and local) of the vessel's hull; (c) at no point of the outside plating shall the thickness calculated in accordance with (a) or (b) above be less than 3 mm; (d) plate renewals shall be carried out when bottom, bilge or side plate thicknesses have fallen short of the minimum value determined in accordance with (a) or (b), in conjunction with (c) above. 2.
Doors in bulkheads referred to in paragraph 5, and their actuators shall be located in the safe area. 12.
Where double bottoms are fitted, their height shall be at least 0,60 m, and where wing voids are fitted, their width shall be at least 0,60 m. 16.
Article 15.03 Stability 1.
The intact stability shall be proven for the following standard load conditions: (a) at the start of the voyage: 100 % passengers, 98 % fuel and fresh water, 10 % waste water; (b) during the voyage: 100 % passengers, 50 % fuel and fresh water, 50 % waste water; (c) at the end of the voyage: 100 % passengers, 10 % fuel and fresh water, 98 % waste water; (d) unladen vessel: no passengers, 10 % fuel and fresh water, no waste water.
A detailed calculation of deck areas which are occupied by persons may be dispensed with if the following values are used: 1,1 · Fmax · 0,075 | for day trip vessels | 1,5 · Fmax · 0,075 | for cabin vessels | P Fmax = maximum permitted number of passengers on board y = B/2 in (m). 5.
The moment due to wind pressure (Mw) shall be calculated as follows: Mw = pw · Aw · (lw+T/2) (kNm) where pw = the specific wind pressure of 0,25 kN/m2; Aw = lateral plane of the vessel above the plane of draught according to the considered loading condition in m2; lw = distance of the centre of gravity of the lateral plane AW from the plane of draught according to the considered loading condition in m. 6.
The moment due to centrifugal force (Mdr), caused by the turning of the vessel, shall be calculated as follows: Mdr = cdr · CB · v2 · D/LWL · (KG — T/2) (kNm) where cdr = a coefficient of 0,45; CB = block coefficient (if not known, taken as 1,0); v = maximum speed of the vessel in m/s; KG = distance between the centre of gravity and the keel line in m.
The following assumptions concerning the extent of damage shall be taken into account in the event of flooding: | One-compartment status | Two-compartment status | Dimension of the side damage | | longitudinal l (m) | 1,20 + 0,07 · LWL | transverse b (m) | B/5 | 0,59 | vertical h (m) | from vessel bottom to top without delimitation | Dimension of the bottom damage | | longitudinal l (m) | 1,20 + 0,07 · LWL | transverse b (m) | B/5 | vertical h (m) | 0,59; pipework installed according to Article 15.02(13)(c), shall be deemed intact | (a) For one-compartment status the bulkheads can be assumed to be intact if the distance between two adjacent bulkheads is greater than the damage length.
If it is proven by a calculation that the average permeability of any compartment is less than 95 %, the calculated value can be used instead.
For all intermediate stages of flooding referred to in paragraph 8, the following criteria shall be met: (a) the heeling angle j at the equilibrium position of the intermediate stage in question shall not exceed 15°; (b) beyond the heel in the equilibrium position of the intermediate stage in question, the positive part of the righting lever curve shall display a righting lever value of GZ ≥ 0,02 m before the first unprotected opening becomes immersed or a heeling angle φ of 25° is reached; (c) non-watertight openings shall not be immersed before the heel in the equilibrium position of the intermediate stage in question has been reached. 11.
Article 15.04 Safety clearance and freeboard 1.
Article 15.05 Maximum permitted number of passengers 1.
Exits normally used for embarking and disembarking people with reduced mobility shall have a clear width of at least 1,50 m. 4.
Connecting corridors shall comply with the following requirements: (a) they shall have a clear width of at least 0,80 m or, if they lead to rooms used by more than 80 passengers, at least 0,01 m per passenger; (b) their clear height shall be not less than 2,00 m; (c) connecting corridors intended for use by persons with reduced mobility shall have a clear width of 1,30 m.
Connecting corridors more than 1,50 m wide shall have handrails on either side; (d) where a part of the vessel or a room intended for passengers is served by a single connecting corridor, the clear width thereof shall be at least 1,00 m; (e) connecting corridors shall be free of steps; (f) they shall lead only to open decks, rooms or staircases; (g) dead ends in connecting corridors shall be not longer than two meters. 6.
Stairs and their landings in the passenger areas shall comply with the following requirements: (a) they shall be constructed in accordance with European standard EN 13056: 2000; (b) they shall have a clear width of at least 0,80 m or, if they lead to connecting corridors or areas used by more than 80 passengers, at least 0,01 m per passenger; (c) they shall have a clear width of at least 1,00 m if they provide the only means of access to a room intended for passengers; (d) where there is not at least one staircase on each side of the vessel in the same room, they shall lie in the safe area; (e) in addition, stairs intended for use by persons with reduced mobility shall comply with the following requirements: (aa) The gradient of the stairs shall not exceed 38°; (bb) The stairs shall have a clear width of at least 0,90 m; (cc) Spiral staircases are not allowed; (dd) The stairs shall not run in a direction transverse to the vessel; (ee) The handrails of the stairs shall extend approximately 0,30 m beyond the top and bottom of the stairs without restricting traffic routes; (ff) Handrails, front sides of at least the first and the last step as well as the floor coverings at the ends of the stairs shall be colour highlighted.
Parts of the deck intended for passengers, and which are not enclosed, shall comply with the following requirements: (a) they shall be surrounded by a fixed bulwark or guard rail at least 1,00 m high or a railing according to the European standard EN 711: 1995, construction type PF, PG or PZ.
Openings, used normally for the embarking or disembarking of persons with reduced mobility, shall have a clear width of at least 1,50 m; (c) if the openings and equipment for embarking or disembarking cannot be observed from the wheelhouse, optical or electronic aids shall be provided; (d) passengers sitting down shall not interrupt sight lines in accordance with Article 7.02. 11.
Gangways shall be constructed in accordance with European standard EN 14206: 2003.
Transparent doors and transparent walls extending as far as the floor in traffic areas shall be prominently marked. 15.
Cabins without an opening window shall be connected to a ventilation system. 19.
Article 15.08 Safety devices and equipment 1.
All passenger vessels shall have internal communication facilities according to Article 7.08.
Each watertight compartment shall be fitted with a bilge level alarm. 5.
The ventilation ducts shall run down to 0,05 m from the floor of this room. 9.
In addition to the lifebuoys specified in Article 10.05(1), all parts of the deck intended for passengers and not enclosed shall be equipped with lifebuoys in accordance with the European standard EN 14144: 2003 on both sides of the vessel, positioned not more than 20 m apart.
In addition to the lifebuoys referred to in paragraph 1, the following equipment shall be available and ready for use: (a) individual life-saving equipment according to Article 10.05(2), for shipboard personnel responsible for undertaking duties according to the safety rota; (b) individual life-saving equipment according to European standard EN 395: 1998 or EN 396: 1998 for other shipboard personnel. 3.
In addition to the life-saving equipment referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2, individual life-saving equipment according to European standard EN 395: 1998 or EN 396: 1998 shall be available for 100 % of the maximum permitted number of passengers.
Where individual life-saving equipment as referred to in the first paragraph is not also suitable for children, individual life-saving equipment according to European standard EN 395: 1998 for children weighing not more than 30 kg shall be available for 10 % of the maximum number of permitted passengers. 5.
The following are admissible for use as an emergency power source: (a) auxiliary generator sets with their own independent fuel supply and independent cooling system which, in the event of a power failure, turn on and take over the supply of power within 30 seconds automatically or, if they are located in the immediate vicinity of the wheelhouse or any other location permanently manned by crew members, can be turned on manually;, or (b) accumulator batteries, which, in the event of a power failure, turn on automatically or, if they are located in the immediate vicinity of the wheelhouse or any other location permanently manned by crew members, can be turned on manually.
The projected operating period for the emergency power supply is to be defined according to the defined purpose of the passenger vessel.
The power sources according to Article 9.02(1), shall be independent of each other. 11.
Hollows above ceilings, beneath floors and behind wall claddings shall be separated at intervals of not more than 14 m by non-combustible draught stops which, even in the event of fire, provide an effective fireproof seal. 12.
The following exceptions are permissible: (a) a staircase connecting only two decks does not need to be encapsulated, if on one of the decks the staircase is enclosed according to paragraph 2; (b) in a lounge, stairs need not be encapsulated if they are located entirely within the interior of this room, and (aa) if this room extends over only two decks, or (bb) if there is a pressurised sprinkler system according to Article 10.03a installed in this room on all decks, this room has a smoke extraction system according to paragraph 16 and the room has access on all decks to a stairwell. 14.
The air extraction ducts of the extractors shall satisfy the requirements according to paragraph 14 and, additionally, be fitted with manually operated fire dampers at the inlet openings. 16.
In addition to the portable extinguishers according to Article 10.03, at least the following portable extinguishers shall be available on board: (a) one portable extinguisher for every 120 m2 of gross floor area in passenger areas; (b) one portable extinguisher per group of 10 cabins, rounded upwards; (c) one portable extinguisher in each galley and in the vicinity of any room in which flammable liquids are stored or used.
Hydrant systems shall be designed and dimensioned in such a way that: (a) any point of the vessel can be reached from at least two hydrants in different places, each with a single hose length of not more than 20 m; (b) the pressure at the hydrants is at least 300 kPa; and (c) on all decks a water jet length of at least 6 m can be attained.
This code of conduct shall include at least: (a) designation of emergencies - fire, - flooding, - general hazard; (b) description of the various alarm signals; (c) instructions concerning the following: - escape routes, - what to do, - need to keep calm; (d) instructions concerning the following: - smoking, - use of fire and naked flame, - opening windows, - use of certain items of equipment.
The inspection body may waive the application of Article 10.04 in the case of passenger vessels authorised to carry up to a maximum of 250 passengers and with a length of not more than 25 m, provided they are equipped with a platform, accessible from each side of the vessel, directly above the waterline, so as to enable persons to be recovered safely from the water.
The inspection body may waive the application of Article 10.04 in the case of passenger vessels authorised to carry up to a maximum of 600 passengers and with a length of not more than 45 m, provided they are equipped with a platform according to paragraph 5, first sentence, or with an equivalent installation according to paragraph 5, second sentence.
By way of derogation from Article 15.02(9), passenger vessels not exceeding 45 m in length and authorised to carry at most a number of passengers corresponding to the length of the vessel in metres are allowed to have on board, in the passenger area, a manually controlled bulkhead door without remote control according to Article 15.02(5), if: (a) the vessel has only one deck; (b) this door is accessible directly from the deck and is not more than 10 m away from the deck; (c) the lower edge of the door opening lies at least 30 cm above the floor of the passenger area, and (d) each of the compartments divided by the door is fitted with a bilge level alarm. 8.
On passenger vessels in accordance with paragraph 7, by way of derogation from Article 15.06(6)(c), one escape route may lead through a galley, as long as there is a second escape route available. 9.
For passenger vessels with a length not exceeding 45 m the following shall not apply: Article 15.01( 2)(e), when the liquefied gas installations are fitted with appropriate alarm systems for CO concentrations posing a health risk and for potentially explosive mixtures of gas and air. 10.
The following provisions shall not apply to passenger vessels not exceeding 25 m in length: (a) Article 15.04(1), last sentence; (b) Article 15.06(6)(c), for the galleys, as long as a second escape route is available; (c) Article 15.07. 11.
For cabin vessels not exceeding 45 m in length, Article 15.12(10), shall not apply, provided smoke-hoods in a number corresponding to the number of berths are readily accessible in each cabin.
For passenger sailing vessels having an LWL not exceeding 45 m and a maximum permissible number of passengers not exceeding LWL in whole meters, the following provisions shall not apply: (a) Article 3.03(7), provided that anchors are not transported in hawse pipes; (b) Article 10.02(2)(d), with regard to length; (c) Article 15.08(3)(a); (d) Article 15.15(9)(a). 2.
The righting lever of static stability shall (a) reach its maximum value at a heeling angle of 25° or over, (b) amount to at least 200 mm at a heeling angle of 30° or over, (c) be positive at a heeling angle of up to 60°. 4.
The area under the righting lever curve shall not be less than (a) 0,055 mrad up to 30°; (b) 0,09 mrad up to 40° or at the angle at which an unprotected opening reaches the water surface and which is less than 40°.
Between (c) 30° and 40°, or (d) 30° and the angle at which an unprotected opening reaches the water surface and which is less than 40°, this area shall not be less than 0,03 mrad.
By way of derogation from Article 15.06(5)(a) and Article 15.06(9)(b), the inspection body may, in the case of passenger sailing vessels not more than 25 m long, authorise a clear width of less than 800 mm for connecting corridors and companionways.
However, the clear width shall be at least 600 mm. 3.
Evidence shall be submitted in accordance with Article 15a.05(2). 8.
Wooden masts shall meet the following minimum requirements: Length [15] (m) | Diameter on deck (cm) | Diameter on the cross-tree (cm) | Diameter on the mast cap (cm) | 10 | 20 | 17 | 15 | 11 | 22 | 17 | 15 | 12 | 24 | 19 | 17 | 13 | 26 | 21 | 18 | 14 | 28 | 23 | 19 | 15 | 30 | 25 | 21 | 16 | 32 | 26 | 22 | 17 | 34 | 28 | 23 | 18 | 36 | 29 | 24 | 19 | 39 | 31 | 25 | 20 | 41 | 33 | 26 | 21 | 43 | 34 | 28 | 22 | 44 | 35 | 29 | 23 | 46 | 37 | 30 | 24 | 49 | 39 | 32 | 25 | 51 | 41 | 33 | If a mast has two yards, the diameters shall be increased by at least 10 %.
In the case of masts fitted through the deck, the diameter at the mast foot shall be at least 75 % of the diameter of the mast at deck level. 2.
Wooden topmasts shall meet the following minimum requirements: Length [16] (m) | Diameter at the foot (cm) | Half-length diameter (cm) | Diameter at fitting [17] (cm) | 4 | 8 | 7 | 6 | 5 | 10 | 9 | 7 | 6 | 13 | 11 | 8 | 7 | 14 | 13 | 10 | 8 | 16 | 15 | 11 | 9 | 18 | 16 | 13 | 10 | 20 | 18 | 15 | 11 | 23 | 20 | 16 | 12 | 25 | 22 | 17 | 13 | 26 | 24 | 18 | 14 | 28 | 25 | 20 | 15 | 31 | 27 | 21 | If square sails are attached to a topmast, the dimensions set out in the table shall be increased by 10 %. 2.
The overlap between the topmast and the mast shall be at least 10 times the required foot diameter of the topmast.
Wooden bowsprits shall meet the following minimum requirements: Length [18] (m) | Diameter at stem (cm) | Half-length diameter (cm) | 4 | 14,5 | 12,5 | 5 | 18 | 16 | 6 | 22 | 19 | 7 | 25 | 23 | 8 | 29 | 25 | 9 | 32 | 29 | 10 | 36 | 32 | 11 | 39 | 35 | 12 | 43 | 39 | 2.
The inboard section of the bowsprit shall have a length of at least four times the diameter of the bowsprit at the stem. 3.
Wooden jib-booms shall meet the following minimum requirements: Length [19] (m) | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 9 | 10 | Diameter at the stem (cm) | 7 | 10 | 14 | 17 | 21 | 24 | 28 | 31 | 35 | 2.
The diameter of the jib-boom at its head shall be at least 60 % of the diameter at the stem.
Wooden main booms shall meet the following minimum requirements: Length [20] (m) | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 9 | 10 | 11 | 12 | 13 | 14 | 15 | 16 | Diameter (cm) | 14 | 15 | 16 | 17 | 18 | 20 | 21 | 23 | 24 | 25 | 26 | 27 | 2.
The diameter at the swivel pin shall be at least 72 % of the diameter specified in the table. 3.
The diameter at the clew shall be at least 85 % of the diameter specified in the table. 4.
Measured from the mast, the greatest diameter shall be at two thirds of the length. 5.
For sail areas of less than 50 m2, the inspection body may authorise reductions in the dimensions set out in the table.
Wooden gaffs shall meet the following minimum requirements: Length [21] (m) | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 9 | 10 | Diameter (cm) | 10 | 12 | 14 | 16 | 17 | 18 | 20 | 2.
The unsupported length of the gaff shall be not more than 75 %. 3.
If, by way of derogation from paragraph 4, the top angle of the crowfoot is greater than 60°, the tensile strength shall be adjusted to accommodate the forces that will then occur. 6.
For sail areas of less than 50 m2, the inspection body may authorise reductions in the dimensions set out in the table.
Standing and running rigging shall comply with the strength requirements set out in Articles 15a.14 and 15a.15. 2.
Article 15a.14 Special provisions for standing rigging 1.
Forestays and shrouds shall meet the following minimum requirements: Mast length [22] (m) | 11 | 12 | 13 | 14 | 15 | 16 | 17 | 18 | Tensile strength of the forestay (kN) | 160 | 172 | 185 | 200 | 220 | 244 | 269 | 294 | Tensile strength of the shrouds (kN) | 355 | 415 | 450 | 485 | 525 | 540 | 630 | 720 | Number of shroud cables and ropes per side | 3 | 3 | 3 | 3 | 3 | 3 | 4 | 4 | 2.
Backstays, topmasts, flying jib-stays, jib-booms and bowsprit shrouds shall meet the following minimum requirements: Mast length [23] (m) | %lt%13 | 13-18 | %gt%18 | Tensile strength of the backstay (kN) | 89 | 119 | 159 | Tensile strength of the topmast (kN) | 89 | 119 | 159 | Length of topmast (m) | %lt%6 | 6-8 | %gt%8 | Tensile strength of the flying jib-stay (kN) | 58 | 89 | 119 | Length of jib-boom (m) | %lt%5 | 5-7 | %gt%7 | Tensile strength of the bow sprit shrouds (kN) | 58 | 89 | 119 | 3.
The preferred rope design shall be based on Rope Construction Method 6 x 7 FE in the strength class 1550 N/mm2.
Alternatively, at the same strength class, Construction Method 6 x 36 SE or 6 x 19 FE may be used.
Because of the higher elasticity of Construction Method 6 x 19, the tensile strengths given in the table shall be increased by 10 %.
If rigid rigging is used, the tensile strengths shown in the table shall be increased by 30 %. 5.
The tensile strength of the bobstay shall be at least 1,2 times the tensile strength of the respective jib-stay and flying jib-stay. 8.
For vessels with less than 30 m3 water displacement, the inspection body may permit the reductions in tensile strengths shown in the table set out below: Water displacement divided by the number of masts (m3) | Reduction (%) | %gt%20 to 30 | 20 | 10 to 20 | 35 | %lt% 10 | 60 | Article 15a.15 Special provisions for running rigging 1.
Fibre ropes of polyethylene shall not be used.
Article 15a.16 Fittings and parts of the rigging 1.
If steel wire ropes or fibre ropes are used, the diameters of the rope sheaves (measured from centre of rope to centre of rope) shall meet the following minimum requirements: Steel wire (mm) | 6 | 7 | 8 | 9 | 10 | 11 | 12 | Fibre (mm) | 16 | 18 | 20 | 22 | 24 | 26 | 28 | Rope sheave (mm) | 100 | 110 | 120 | 130 | 145 | 155 | 165 | 2.
CHAPTER 16 SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO CRAFT INTENDED TO FORM PART OF A PUSHED OR TOWED CONVOY OR OF A SIDE-BY-SIDE FORMATION Article 16.01 Craft suitable for pushing 1.
If the craft are joined together with cables the pusher craft shall be equipped with at least two special winches or equivalent coupling devices for tensioning the cables. 3.
The necessary drive units shall easily absorb the forces to be transmitted and shall be capable of being controlled easily and safely.
Articles 6.02 to 6.04 shall apply mutatis mutandis to such drive units. 4.
Article 16.02 Craft suitable for being pushed 1.
In addition, ship-borne lighters whose length L does not exceed 40 m shall meet the following requirements: (a) collision bulkheads referred to in Article 3.03(1), can be dispensed with if their front faces are able to bear a load at least 2,5 times that set for the collision bulkheads on inland waterway vessels with the same draught and built in accordance with the requirements of an approved classification society; (b) by way of derogation from Article 8.08(1), compartments of the double bottom to which access is difficult do not have to be drainable unless their volume exceeds 5 % of the water displacement of the ship-borne lighter at the maximum authorised loaded draught. 3.
Article 16.03 Craft suitable for propelling side-by-side formations Craft intended to propel side-by-side formations shall be equipped with bollards or equivalent devices which, as a result of their number and arrangement, enable the formation to be coupled in a safe manner.
Article 16.04 Craft suitable for being propelled in convoys Craft intended to be propelled in convoys shall be equipped with coupling devices, bollards or equivalent devices which, as a result of their number and arrangement, ensure a safe connection to other craft in the convoy.
Article 16.05 Craft suitable for towing 1.
Craft of length L exceeding 86 m shall not be authorised for towing downstream.
Article 16.06 Navigation tests on convoys 1.
The requirements set out in Articles 5.02 to 5.10 shall be met by this convoy.
CHAPTER 17 SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO FLOATING EQUIPMENT Article 17.01 General For construction and equipment of floating equipment Chapters 3, 7 to 14 and 16 shall apply.
Article 17.02 Derogations 1.
The inspection body may grant derogations from the following requirements: (a) Article 3.03(1) and (2), shall apply mutatis mutandis; (b) Article 7.02 shall apply mutatis mutandis; (c) the maximum sound pressure levels prescribed by Article 12.02 (5), second sentence, may be exceeded while the floating equipment's working gear is operating, provided that, during service, nobody sleeps on board at night; (d) derogations may be granted from other requirements concerning structure, working gear or equipment provided that equal safety is ensured in each case. 2.
The inspection body may dispense with the application of the following requirements: (a) Article 10.01(1), shall not apply if during operation of floating equipment that equipment can be securely anchored by means of a working anchor or piles.
In addition, the following shall apply: (a) for Article 8.08(2), second sentence, the bilge pump shall be motor driven; (b) for Article 8.10(3), the noise may exceed 65 dB(A) at a lateral distance of 25 m from the ship's side of any stationary floating equipment while its working gear is operating; (c) for Article 10.03(1), at least one further portable extinguisher is required if working gear not permanently attached to the craft is placed on the deck; (d) for Article 14.02(2), in addition to the liquefied-gas equipment for domestic use, there may also be other liquefied-gas facilities.
Article 17.03 Additional requirements 1.
Article 17.04 Residual safety clearance 1.
The residual safety clearance is sufficient according to Article 17.07(1), for any spray-proof and weathertight aperture if it is at least 300 mm. 3.
At an aperture that is not spray-proof and weathertight the residual safety clearance shall be at least 400 mm.
Article 17.05 Residual freeboard 1.
The residual freeboard is sufficient according to Article 17.07(1), if it is at least 300 mm. 3.
Confirmation of stability according to Articles 17.07 and 17.08 shall be based on a heeling test that has been carried out in a proper manner. 2.
The result of the weight calculation shall be checked by measuring the draught, and the difference shall not exceed ± 5 %.
Confirmation of stability shall be based on at least the following load assumptions: (a) specific mass of the dredging products for dredgers: - sands and gravels: 1,5 t/m3, - very wet sands: 2,0 t/m3, - soil, on average: 1,8 t/m3, - mixture of sand and water in the ducts: 1,3 t/m3; (b) for clamshell dredgers, the values given under point (a) shall be increased by 15 %; (c) for hydraulic dredgers the maximum lifting power shall be considered. 4.1.
The moment caused by the wind pressure shall be calculated in accordance with the following formula: where: c = shape-dependent coefficient of resistance For frameworks c = 1,2 and for solid-section beams c = 1,6.
pw = specific wind pressure; this shall uniformly be taken to be 0,25 kN/m2; A = lateral plane above the plane of maximum draught in m2; lw = distance from the centre of area of the lateral plane A from the plane of maximum draught, in m. 4.3.
The righting moments for floats with vertical side walls may be calculated using the following formula Ma = 10 · D · MG‾ · sinφ (kNm) where: MG‾ = metacentric height, in m; φ = heeling angle in degrees.
That formula shall apply up to heeling angles of 10° or up to a heeling angle corresponding to immersion of the edge of the deck or emergence of the edge of the bottom; the smallest angle shall be decisive.
Article 17.10 Floating equipment without confirmation of stability 1.
However, (a) at maximum load the safety clearance shall be at least 300 mm and the freeboard at least 150 mm; (b) for apertures which cannot be closed spray-proof and weathertight the safety clearance shall be at least 500 mm.
CHAPTER 18 SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO WORKSITE CRAFT Article 18.01 Operating conditions Worksite craft designated as such in the Community certificate set out in Part I or II of Annex V may navigate outside worksites only when unladen.
Article 18.04 Safety clearance and freeboard 1.
If a worksite craft is used as a reclamation barge or a hopper barge the safety clearance outside the hold area shall be at least 300 mm and the freeboard at least 150 mm.
The provisions of Articles 4.01 and 4.02 shall apply mutatis mutandis to worksite craft not covered by paragraph 1.
CHAPTER 20 SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO SEA-GOING VESSELS (Left void) CHAPTER 21 SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO RECREATIONAL CRAFT Article 21.01 General Only Articles 21.02 and 21.03 shall apply to the construction and equipment of recreational craft.
Within the formulae: KG‾zul maximum permissible height of the laden vessel's centre of gravity above its base (m); KM‾ height of the metacentre above the base (m) in accordance with the approximation formula in paragraph 3; F respective effective freeboard at 1/2 L (m); Z parameter for the centrifugal force resulting from turningZ =0,7 · v29,81 · 1,25 · LWL= 0,04 ·v2LWL– v maximum speed of the vessel in relation to the water (m/s); Tm respective average draught (m); hKW heeling lever resulting from lateral wind pressure according to paragraph 1(d) (m); hKfO sum of the heeling levers resulting from the free surfaces of liquids according to paragraph 1(e) (m). 3.
Approximation formula for KM‾ Where no sheet of hydrostatic curves is available the value KM‾ for the calculation in accordance withparagraph 2 and Article 22.03 (2), may be determined by the following approximation formulae: (a) for vessels in the shape of a pontoon KM‾=B2WL12,5 –TmH· Tm+Tm2m (b) for other vessels KM‾=B2WL12,7 – 1,2 ·TmH· Tm+Tm2m Article 22.03 Limit conditions and method of calculation for confirmation of stability for the transport of secured containers 1.
Within these formulae, apart from the terms defined previously: I transverse moment of inertia of water line area at Tm (m4) (for the approximation formula see paragraph 3); i transverse moment of inertia of the water line area parallel to the base, at heightTm+23F’m4 +++++ TIFF +++++ water displacement of the vessel at Tm (m3); F' ideal freeboard F' = H' — Tm (m) or F’ =a · BWL2 · bm, the lowest value shall be decisive; a the vertical distance between the lower edge of the opening that is first immersed in the event of heeling and the water line in the vessel's upright position (m); b distance from that same opening from the centre of the vessel (m); H' ideal side height H’ = H +q0,9 · L · BWLm; q sum of the volumes of the deckhouses, hatches, trunk decks and other superstructures up to a maximum height of 1,0 m above H or up to the lowest aperture in the volume under consideration, the lowest value being decisive.
Approximation formula for I Where there is no sheet of hydrostatic curves available the value for the transverse moment of inertia I of the water line area may be calculated by the following approximation formulae: (a) for vessels in the shape of a pontoon +++++ TIFF +++++ (b) for other vessels +++++ TIFF +++++ Article 22.04 Procedure for assessing stability on board The procedure for assessing stability may be determined by the documents referred to in Article 22.01(2).
CHAPTER 22a SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO CRAFT LONGER THAN 110 M Article 22a.01 Application of Part I In addition to the requirements set out in Article 2.03(3), the inspection body which is subsequently to issue the Community certificate shall be informed by the owner or his representative before building of craft longer than 110 m, except sea-going ships, begins (building of a new vessel or extension of a vessel already in service).
Article 22a.02 Application of Part II In addition to Part II, Articles 22a.03 to 22a.05 shall apply to craft that are longer than 110 m.
doors, windows, access hatches) shall, at the final stage of flooding, be not less than 100 mm above the damaged waterline. 5.
The stability after damage shall be sufficient if, on the basis of the assumptions inparagraph 4: (a) at the final stage of flooding a safety clearance of not less than 100 mm remains and the heeling angle of the craft does not exceed 5°; or (b) calculations in accordance with the procedure for calculation of damaged stability specified in Part 9 of the ADNR produce a positive result. 6.
Craft longer than 110 m shall: (a) be fitted with a multi-propeller propulsion system, with at least two independent engines of equal power and a bow thruster that is controlled from the wheelhouse and is also effective when the craft is in an unladen state; or have a single-propeller propulsion system and a bow thruster that is controlled from the wheelhouse with its own power supply and which is also effective when the craft is in an unladen state and makes it possible for the craft to proceed under its own power in the event of a breakdown of the main propulsion system; (b) be fitted with a radar navigation system, together with a rate-of-turn indicator in accordance with Article 7.06(1); (c) have a permanently-installed bilge pumping system in accordance with Article 8.08; (d) meet the requirements of Article 23.09(1)(1). 2.
The following installations are prohibited on board high-speed vessels: (a) appliances fitted with wick burners according to Article 13.02; (b) vaporising oil burner stoves according to Articles 13.03 and 13.04; (c) solid-fuel heating appliances according Article 13.07; (d) liquefied gas installations according to Chapter 14.
By way of derogation from Article 2.06, Community certificates issued in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter shall be valid for a maximum of five years.
By way of derogation from Article 15.02(9), and Article 15.15(7), all doors in watertight bulkheads shall be capable of being remote controlled. 3.
In addition to the requirements of Part II, high-speed vessels shall meet the requirements of Articles 22b.04 to 22b.12.
Article 22b.05 Freeboard By way of derogation from Articles 4.02 and 4.03, the freeboard shall be at least 500 mm.
PART III CHAPTER 23 EQUIPMENT OF VESSELS WITH REGARD TO MANNING Article 23.01 (Left void) Article 23.02 (Left void) Article 23.03 (Left void) Article 23.04 (Left void) Article 23.05 (Left void) Article 23.06 (Left void) Article 23.07 (Left void) Article 23.08 (Left void) Article 23.09 Vessels' equipment 1.
Article 23.10 (Left void) Article 23.11 (Left void) Article 23.12 (Left void) Article 23.13 (Left void) Article 23.14 (Left void) Article 23.15 (Left void) PART IV CHAPTER 24 TRANSITIONAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS Article 24.01 Applicability of transitional provisions to craft which are already in service 1.
Without prejudice to Articles 24.03 and 24.04, craft which do not fully comply with the provisions of this Directive must (a) be adapted to comply with those provisions in accordance with the transitional provisions listed in the table below, and (b) until their adaptation, comply with the Rhine Vessel Inspection Regulation in force on 31 December 1994. 2.
Article and paragraph | Content | Deadline and comments | CHAPTER 3 3.03(1)(a) | Situation of collision bulkhead | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2035 | paragraph 2 | Accommodations | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2010 | Safety equipment | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2015 | paragraph 4 | Gastight separation of accommodations from engine rooms, boiler rooms and holds | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2010 | paragraph 5, second subparagraph | Monitoring of doors in aft-peak bulkheads | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2010 | paragraph 7 | Anchors not protruding in foresections of vessels | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2041 | 3.04(3), second sentence | Insulation material used in engine rooms | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate | paragraph 3, third and fourth sentences | Openings and locking devices | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate | 3.04(6) | Exits of engine rooms | Engine rooms which were not considered as engine rooms according to Article 1.01 before 1995 must be equipped with a second exit at NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2035 | CHAPTER 5 5.06(1), first sentence | Minimum speed | For craft laid down before 1996 at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2035 | CHAPTER 6 6.01(1) | Manoeuvrability required by Chapter 5 | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2035 | paragraph 3 | Permanent lists and ambient temperatures | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2010 | paragraph 7 | Design of rudder stocks | For craft laid down before 1996: NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2015 | 6.02(2) | Single operation sufficient to operate second driving unit | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2010 | paragraph 3 | Manoeuvrability required by Chapter 5 ensured by second drive unit/manual drive | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2035 | 6.03(1) | Connection of other consumers to hydraulic steering apparatus drive unit | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2010 | paragraph 2 | Separate hydraulic reservoirs | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2010 | 6.05(1) | Wheel of manual drive not driven by powered drive unit | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2010 | 6.06(1) | Two independent actuation systems | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2015 | 6.07(2)(a) | Monitoring devices for level of hydraulic reservoir and service pressure | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2010 | paragraph 2(e) | Monitoring of buffer devices | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate | 6.08(1) | Requirements for electrical equipment according to Article 9.20 | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2015 | CHAPTER 7 7.02(3), second subparagraph | Unobstructed view in the helmsman's usual axis of vision | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2015 | paragraph 5 | Minimal light transmission | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2010 | 7.03(7) | Shutdown of alarms | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate, unless the wheelhouse has been designed for radar navigation by one person | paragraph 8 | Automatic switch to another power supply | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2010 | 7.04(1) | Control of main engines and steering systems | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate | paragraph 2 | Control of main engine | Unless wheelhouses have been designed for radar navigation by one person: NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2035 if the direction of motion can be achieved directly; 1.1.2010 for other engines | 7.09 | Alarm system | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2010 | 7.12 first paragraph | Retractable wheelhouses | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate Non-hydraulic lowering system: at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2035 | second and third paragraphs | | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate | CHAPTER 8 8.01 (3) | Only internal-combustion engines burning fuels having a flashpoint of more than 55°C | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2015 | 8.02(1) | Securing of engines against unintentional starting | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2010 | paragraph 4 | Automatic protection of engine parts | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate | 8.03(2) | Monitoring devices | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2010 | paragraph 3 | Automatic protection against overspeed | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2010 | paragraph 5 | Design of shaft bushings | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2015 | 8.05(1) | Steel tanks for liquid fuels | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2015 | paragraph 2 | Automatic closing of tank valves | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate | paragraph 3 | No fuel tanks located forward of the collision bulkhead | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2010 | paragraph 4 | No fuel tanks and their fittings above engines or exhaust pipes | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2010.
Until then, appropriate devices must ensure the safe evacuation of fuels. | paragraph 6, third to fifth sentences | Installation and measurements of breather pipes and connection pipes | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2010 | 8.05(7) | Shutoff device to be operated from the deck | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2015 | paragraph 9, first sentence | Capacity-gauging devices to be legible up to maximum filling level | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2010 | paragraph 13 | Filling level control not only for main engines but also other engines needed for safe operation of the vessel | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2015 | 8.08(8) | Simple closing device not sufficient for connection of ballast spaces to drainage pipes for holds capable of carrying ballast | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2010 | paragraph 9 | Gauging devices in hold bilges | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2010 | 8.09(2) | Installations for the collection of oily water and used oil stores | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2010 | 8.10(3) | Emission limit of 65 dB(A) for stationary vessels | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2015 | | CHAPTER 8a | | | The transitional provisions on Chapter 8a of the Rhine Vessel Inspection Regulation apply | | CHAPTER 9 9.01(1), second sentence | Relevant documents to be submitted to the inspection body | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2035 | paragraph 2, second indent | Switching diagrams for main, emergency and distribution switchboard to be kept on board | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2010 | paragraph 3 | Ambient inside and deck temperatures | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2010 | 9.02(1) to (3) | Electricity supply systems | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2010 | 9.05(4) | Cross-section of the earthing conductors | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2015 | 9.11(4) | Effective ventilation when accumulators are installed in a closed compartment, cabinet or chest | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate | 9.12(2)(d) | Switch-gear installations | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2015 | paragraph 3(b) | Earth detection device capable of giving both visual and audible alarm | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2010 | 9.13 | Emergency circuit breakers | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2010 | 9.14(3), second sentence | Prohibition of single-pole switches in laundries, bathrooms, washrooms and other rooms with wet facilities | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2010 | 9.15(2) | Minimum cross-section of 1,5 mm2 per cable | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2010 | paragraph 9 | Cables connected to retractable wheelhouses | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2010 | 9.16(3), second sentence | Second circuit | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2015 | 9.19 | Alarm and safety systems for mechanical equipment | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2015 | 9.20 | Electronic equipment | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2035 | 9.21 | Electromagnetic compatibility | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2035 | CHAPTER 10 10.01 | Anchor equipment | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2010 | 10.02(2)(a) | Certificate for mooring and other cables | First cable to be replaced on the vessel: NRC, at the latest 1.1.2008 Second and third cables: 1.1.2013 | 10.03(1) | European standard | For replacement, at the latest 1.1.2010 | paragraph 2 | Suitability for Class A, B and C fires | For replacement, at the latest 1.1.2010 | paragraph 4 | Relation of CO2 content and size of room | For replacement, at the latest 1.1.2010 | 10.03a | Permanently installed fire-fighting systems in accommodation spaces, wheelhouses and passenger spaces | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2035 | 10.03b | Permanently installed fire-fighting systems in engine rooms, boiler rooms and pump rooms | [28] | 10.04 | Application of the European standard to dinghies | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2015 | 10.05(2) | Inflatable life jackets | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2010.
For passenger vessels which were equipped with collective life-saving appliances according to Article 15.09(6) before 1.1.2005, these are considered an alternative to individual life-saving equipment until the issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2010. | paragraph 5(b) and (c) | Adequate seating space, buoyancy of at least 750 N | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2010 | (f) | Stable trim and appropriate grabbing devices | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2010 | (i) | Appropriate means of evacuation from evacuation areas on to life rafts | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2010 | paragraph 10 | Ship's boat equipped with engine and searchlight | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2010 | 15.10(2) | Article 9.16(3) also applicable to passageways and recreation rooms for passengers | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2015 | paragraph 3 | Adequate emergency lighting | Emergency lighting NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2015 | 15.10 (4) | Emergency power plant | For day-trip vessels with LWL of 25 m or less, the provision applies at NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2015 | (f) | Emergency supply for searchlights according to Article 10.02 (2)(i) | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2015 | (i) | Emergency supply for lifts and lifting equipment according to Article 15.06(9), second sentence | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2015 | paragraph 6 | Requirements for the emergency power plant: | | —Partitions according to Article 15.11(2) | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2015 | —Installation of cables | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2015 | —Emergency power plant above the margin line | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2015 | 15.11 | Fire protection | | paragraph 1 | Suitability for fire protection of materials and components | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2045 | paragraph 2 | Design of partitions | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2045 | paragraph 3 | Paints, lacquers and other surface treatment products as well as deck coverings used in rooms except engine rooms and store rooms shall be flame-retardant | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2015 | paragraph 4 | Lounge ceilings and wall claddings manufactured from non-combustible material | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2045 | paragraph 5 | Furniture and fittings in muster areas manufactured from non-combustible material | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2045 | paragraph 6 | Tested according to Code | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2045 | paragraph 7 | Insulation materials in lounges | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2045 | paragraph 8 | Requirements for doors in partitions | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2045 | paragraph 9 | Walls | On cabin vessels without automatic pressurised-water spraying systems, ends of walls between cabins: NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2010 | paragraph 10 | Partitions | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2045 | 15.11(11) | Draught stops | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2045 | paragraph 12, 2nd sentence | Stairs made of steel or another equivalent non-combustible material | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2045 | paragraph 13 | Encapsulation of internal stairs | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2045 | paragraph 14 | Ventilation systems and air supply systems | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2045 | paragraph 15 | Ventilation systems in galleys and stoves with extractors | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2045 | paragraph 16 | Control centres, stairwells, muster areas and smoke extraction systems | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2045 | paragraph 17 | Fire alarm system | For day-trip vessels: NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2010 | 15.12 (1) | Portable extinguishers | Extinguisher and quenching material in galleys, hairdressing salons and perfumeries: NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate | paragraph 2 | Hydrant system | 2nd fire extinguishing pump: NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2010 | paragraph 3 | Requirements for hydrant systems | Pressure and water jet length: NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2010 | paragraph 6 | Materials, protection against failure | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2010 | 15.12 (7) | Avoidance of the possibility of freezing of pipes and hydrants | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2010 | paragraph 8(b) | Independent operation of fire extinguishing pumps | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2010 | (c) | Water jet length on all decks | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2010 | (d) | Installation of fire extinguishing pumps | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2010 | paragraph 9 | Fire extinguishing system in engine rooms | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2045 | 15.14(1) | Waste water collection and disposal facilities | For cabin vessels with no more than 50 berths and for day-trip vessels: NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2045 | paragraph 2 | Requirements for waste water collection tanks | For cabin vessels with no more than 50 berths and for day-trip vessels with no more than 50 passengers: NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2045 | 15.15 (1) | Damage stability | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2045 | paragraph 4 | (Left void) | | paragraph 5 | Equipped with a ship's boat, a platform or an equivalent installation | For passenger vessels licensed for a maximum of 250 passengers or 50 berths: NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2010 | 15.15(6) | Equipped with a ship's boat, a platform or an equivalent installation | For passenger vessels licensed for a maximum of 250 passengers or 50 berths: NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2010 | paragraph 9(a) | Alarm systems for liquefied gas installations | NRC, at the latest on renewal of the certificate according to Article 14.15 | (b) | Collective life-saving appliances according to Article 15.09(5) | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2010 | CHAPTER 16 16.01(2) | Special winches or equivalent coupling devices | The requirement applies to craft licensed before 1.1.1995 for pushing without proper securing equipment, only at NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2035. | 16.01(3), last sentence | Requirements for drive units | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2035 | CHAPTER 17 17.02(3) | Additional requirements | The same transitional provisions as those indicated under the relevant article apply. | 17.03(1) | General alarm system | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate | paragraph 4 | Maximum authorised load | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate | 17.04(2) and (3) | Residual safety clearance | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate | 17.05(2) and (3) | Residual freeboard | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate | 17.06, 17.07 and 17.08 | Heeling test and confirmation of stability | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate | 17.09 | Draught marks and draught scales | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate | CHAPTER 20 | The transitional provisions on Chapter 20 of the Rhine Vessel Inspection Regulation apply | | CHAPTER 21 21.01 to 21.02 | | The requirements apply to recreational craft built before 1.1.1995, only at NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2035. | Article 24.03 Derogations for craft which were laid down on or before 1 April 1976 1.
Article and paragraph | Content | Deadline and comments | CHAPTER 3 3.03(1)(a) | Situation of collision bulkhead | RC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2035 | 3.04(2) | Common surfaces of bunkers and accommodation and passenger areas | RC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2035 | paragraph 7 | Maximum permissible sound pressure level | Issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2015 | CHAPTER 4 4.01(2), 4.02 and 4.03 | Safety clearance, freeboard, minimum freeboard | Issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2015 | CHAPTER 7 7.01(2) | Sound pressure generated by the vessel | RC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2015 | 7.05(2) | Monitoring of navigation lights | Issue or renewal of the Community certificate | CHAPTER 8 8.08 (3) and (4) | Minimum pumping capacity and internal diameter of drainage pipes | Issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2015 | 8.10(2) | Noise generated by a vessel under way | RC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2015 | CHAPTER 9 9.01 | Requirements for electrical equipment | RC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2015 | 9.03 | Protection against physical contact, intrusion of solid objects and the ingress of water | RC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2015 | 9.06 | Maximum permissible voltages | RC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2015 | 9.10 | Generators and motors | RC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2015 | 9.11(2) | Installation of accumulators | RC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2015 | 9.12 | Switch-gear installations | RC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2015 | 9.14 | Installation fittings | RC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2015 | 9.15 | Cables | RC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2015 | 9.17 | Navigation lights | RC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2015 | CHAPTER 12 12.02(5) | Noise and vibration in accommodations | Issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2015 | CHAPTER 15 15.02(5), (6), first sentence, (7) to (11) and (13) | Margin line if no bulkhead deck | RC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2045 | 15.02(16) | Watertight windows | RC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2045 | 15.04 | Safety clearance, freeboard, immersion measures | RC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2045 | 15.05 | Number of passengers | Issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2015 | 15.10 (4), ( 6), (7), (8) and (11) | Emergency power plant | RC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2045 | 2.
Article 24.04 Other derogations 1.
The following provisions apply: (a) to craft for which a vessel certificate in accordance with the Rhine Vessel Inspection Regulation was issued for the first time between 1 January 1995 and … [27], provided they were not under construction or undergoing conversion on 31 December 1994; (b) to craft which have obtained another traffic licence between 1 January 1995 and… [27]. 2.
Article 24.04(4) and (5), apply MUTATIS MUTANDIS. 5.
The transitional period does not apply to passenger vessels which have been laid down after 31.12.1995, the hull of which is made of wood, aluminium or plastic and the engine rooms of which are not made of a material according to Article 3.04(3) and (4). | 1.1.2006 | 15.13 | Safety organisation | For day-trip vessels: NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate | 1.1.2006 | 15.14 (1) | Waste water collection and disposal facilities | For cabin vessels with 50 or fewer berths, and for day-trip vessels: NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2045 | 1.1.2006 | paragraph 2 | Requirements for waste water collection tanks | For cabin vessels with 50 or fewer berths, and for day-trip vessels with 50 or fewer passengers: NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2045 | 1.1.2006 | 15.15 | Derogations for certain passenger vessels | | 1.1.2006 | paragraph 1 | Damage stability | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2045 | 1.1.2006 | paragraph 4 | (Left void) | | | paragraph 5 | Equipped with a ship's boat, a platform or an equivalent installation | For passenger vessels licensed for a maximum of 250 passengers or 50 berths: NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2010 | 1.1.2006 | paragraph 6 | Equipped with a ship's boat, a platform or an equivalent installation | For passenger vessels licensed for a maximum of 250 passengers or 50 berths: NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2010 | 1.1.2006 | 15.15(9)(a) | Alarm systems for liquefied gas installations | NRC, at the latest on renewal of the attestation according to Article 14.15 | 1.1.2006 | (b) | Collective life-saving appliances according to Article 15.09 section 5 | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after 1.1.2010 | 1.1.2006 | Article 24.07 (Left void) CHAPTER 24a ADDITIONAL TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS FOR CRAFT NOT NAVIGATING ON ZONE R WATERWAYS Article 24a.01 Application of transitional provisions to craft already in service and validity of previous Community certificates 1.
Until then, appropriate devices must ensure the safe evacuation of fuels. | paragraph 6 third to fifth sentences | Installation and measurements of breather pipes and connection pipes | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after … [33] | paragraph 7 | Shutoff device to be operated from the deck | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after … [34] | paragraph 9, first sentence | Capacity-gauging devices to be legible up to maximum filling level | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after … [33] | paragraph 13 | Filling level control not only for main engines but also other engines needed for safe operation of the vessel | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after … [34] | 8.06 | Storage of lubricating oil, pipes and accessories | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after … [32] | 8.07 | Storage of oils used in power transmission systems, control and activating systems and heating systems, pipes and accessories | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after … [32] | 8.08( 8) | Simple closing device not sufficient for connection of ballast spaces to drainage pipes for holds capable of carrying ballast | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after … [33] | 8.08( 9) | Gauging devices in hold bilges | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after … [33] | 8.09(2) | Installations for the collection of oily water and used oil stores | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after … [33] | 8.10(3) | Emission limit of 65 dB(A) for stationary craft | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after … [34] | CHAPTER 9 9.01(1), second sentence | Relevant documents to be submitted to the inspection body | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after … [32] | 9.01(2), second indent | Switching diagrams for main, emergency and distribution switchboard to be kept on board | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after … [33] | paragraph 3 | Ambient inside and deck temperatures | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after … [33] | 9.02(1) to (3) | Electricity supply systems | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after … [33] | 9.03 | Protection against physical contact, intrusion of solid objects and the ingress of water | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after … [34] | 9.05(4) | Cross-section of the earthing conductors | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after … [34] | 9.11(4) | Effective ventilation when accumulators are installed in a closed compartment, cabinet or chest | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate | 9.12 | Switch-gear installations | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after … [34] | 9.12 (3)(b) | Earth detection device capable of giving both visual and audible alarm | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after … [33] | 9.13 | Emergency circuit breakers | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after … [33] | 9.14 | Installation fittings | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after … [34] | 9.14(3), second sentence | Prohibition of single-pole switches in laundries, bathrooms, washrooms and other rooms with wet facilities | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after … [33] | 9.15(2) | Minimum cross-section of 1,5 mm2 per cable | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after … [33] | paragraph 10 | Cables connected to retractable wheelhouses | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after … [33] | 9.16(3), second sentence | Second circuit | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after … [34] | 9.19 | Alarm and safety systems for mechanical equipment | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after … [34] | 9.20 | Electronic equipment | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after … [32] | 9.21 | Electromagnetic compatibility | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after … [32] | CHAPTER 10 10.01 | Anchor equipment | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after … [33] | 10.02 (2)(a) | Certificate for mooring and other cables | First cable to be replaced on the vessel: NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after … [33] Second and third cables: … [34] | 10.03(1) | European standard | At replacement, at the latest … [33] | paragraph 2 | Suitability for Class A, B and C fires | At replacement, at the latest … [33] | paragraph 4 | Relation of CO2 content and size of room | At replacement, at the latest … [33] | 10.03a | Permanently installed fire-fighting systems in accommodation spaces, wheelhouses and passenger spaces | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after … [32] | 10.03b | Permanently installed fire-fighting systems in engine rooms, boiler rooms and pump rooms | CO2 fire-fighting systems permanently installed before 1 October 1985 may remain in use until the issue or renewal of the Community certificate after … [32] if they comply with the requirements of Article 13.03 of Annex II of Directive 82/714/EEC. | 10.04 | Application of the European standard to dinghies | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after … [34] | 10.05(2) | Inflatable life jackets | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after … [33] Life jackets which are on board on the day before [35]can be used until renewal of the Community certificate after… [33]. | CHAPTER 11 11.02(4) | Equipment of outer edges of decks, side decks and work stations | NRC, [at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after … [34] | 11.04 | Side decks | First issue or renewal of the Community certificate [36] after … [32] where width exceeds 7,30 m | 11.05(1) | Access to workplaces | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after … [32] | paragraphs 2 and 3 | Doors and accesses, exits and passageways where there is more than a 0,50 m difference in floor level | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate | paragraph 4 | Stairs in working spaces which are manned continuously | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after … [32] | 11.06(2) | Exits and emergency exits | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after … [32] | 11.07(1), second sentence | Ladders, steps and similar devices | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after … [32] | paragraphs 2 and 3 | | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate | 11.10 | Hatch covers | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after … [33] | 11.11 | Winches | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after … [33] | 11.12(2) to (6) and (8) to (10) | Cranes: manufacturer's plate, maximum permissible loadings, protection devices, calculation test, inspection by experts, certificates on board | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after … [34] | 11.13 | Storing of flammable liquids | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate | CHAPTER 12 12.01(1) | Accommodation for the persons lodging habitually on board | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after … [32] | 12.02(3) | Situation of floors | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after … [32] | paragraph 4 | Living and sleeping quarters | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after … [32] | 12.02( 5) | Noise and vibration in accommodations | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after [34] | paragraph 6 | Headroom in accommodations | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after … [32] | paragraph 8 | Free floor area of communal living quarters | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after … [32] | paragraph 9 | Cubic capacity of rooms | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after … [32] | paragraph 10 | Volume of airspace per person | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after … [32] | paragraph 11 | Size of doors | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after … [32] | paragraph 12(a)and (b) | Situation of stairs | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after … [32] | paragraph 13 | Pipes carrying dangerous gases or liquids | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after … [32] | 12.03 | Sanitary installations | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after … [32] | 12.04 | Galleys | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after … [32] | 12.05 | Potable water | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate | 12.06 | Heating and ventilation | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after … [32] | 12.07 section 1, second sentence | Other accommodation installations | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after … [32] | CHAPTER 15 | Passenger vessels | see Article 8 of this Directive | CHAPTER 15a | Passenger sailing vessels | see Article 8 of this Directive | CHAPTER 16 16.01(2) | Special winches or equivalent coupling devices | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after … [32] | paragraph 3, last sentence | Requirements for drive units | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after … [32] | CHAPTER 17 | Floating equipment | see Article 8 of this Directive | CHAPTER 21 | Recreational craft | see Article 8 of this Directive | CHAPTER 22b 22b.03 | Second independent steering apparatus drive unit | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after [33] | Article 24a.03 Derogations for craft which were laid down before 1 January 1985 1.
If existing parts are replaced by replacement parts using the same technology and of the same type, this does not constitute replacement ("R") within the meaning of these transitional provisions. - "Issue or renewal of the Community certificate": The provision must be complied with by the time of the first issue or next renewal of the Community certificate after… [27].
If the certificate expires between … [27] and the day before… [31], that requirement is, however, only mandatory from… [31].
Article and paragraph | Content | Deadline and comments | CHAPTER 3 3.03(1) | Watertight collision bulkheads | NRC | 3.03(2) | Accommodations, safety installations | NRC | 3.03(5) | Openings in watertight bulkheads | NRC | 3.04(2) | Surfaces of bunkers | NRC | 3.04(7) | Maximum permissible sound pressure level in engine rooms | NRC | CHAPTER 4 4.01 | Safety clearance | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after … [37] | 4.02 | Freeboard | NRC | CHAPTER 6 6.01(3) | Requirements of steering system | NRC | CHAPTER 7 7.01(2) | Maximum permissible sound pressure level in wheelhouse | NRC | 7.05(2) | Monitoring of navigation lights | NRC | 7.12 | Retractable wheelhouses | NRC | CHAPTER 8 8.01 (3) | Prohibition of certain liquid fuels | NRC | 8.04 | Engine exhaust system | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate | 8.05(13) | Alarm device for level of fuel filling | NRC | 8.08(2) | Equipment with bilge pumps | NRC | 8.08(3) and (4) | Diameter and minimum pumping capacity of bilge pumps | NRC | 8.08(5) | Self-priming bilge pumps | NRC | 8.08(6) | Equipment with strainers | NRC | 8.08(7) | Automatically closable fitting for aft peak | NRC | 8.10(2) | Noise emitted by craft | NRC | CHAPTER 9 9.01(2) | Certificates for electrical equipment | NRC | 9.01(3) | Installation of electrical equipment | NRC | 9.06 | Maximum permissible voltages | NRC | 9.10 | Generators and motors | NRC | 9.11(2) | Accumulators | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after … [38] | 9.12(2) | Switches, protective devices | NRC, at the latest on issue or renewal of the Community certificate after … [38] | 9.14(3) | Simultaneous switching | NRC | 9.15 | Cables | NRC | 9.16(3) | Lighting in engine rooms | NRC | 9.17(1) | Switchboards for navigation lights | NRC | 9.17(2) | Power supply for navigation lights | NRC | CHAPTER 10 10.01(9) | Anchor windlasses | NRC | 10.04(1) | Dinghies according to standard | NRC | 10.05(1) | Lifebuoys according to standard | NRC | 10.05(2) | Life jackets according to standard | NRC | CHAPTER 11 11.11(2) | Safety of winches | NRC | CHAPTER 12 12.02(13) | Pipes carrying dangerous gases or liquids | NRC | Article 24a.04 Other derogations If it is difficult in practical terms to apply the provisions set out in this Chapter following the expiry of the transitional provisions, or if their application gives rise to unreasonably high costs, the inspection body may allow derogations from these provisions subject to recommendations by the Committee.
These derogations must be entered in the Community certificate. [1] Where appliances release large amounts of heat: IP 12. [2] Where appliances or panels do not have this type of protection their location shall meet the conditions applying to that type of protection. [3] IEC publication 60079 as of 1 October 2003. [4] Where that voltage comes from higher-voltage networks galvanic separation shall be used (safety transformer). [5] All of the poles of the secondary circuit shall be insulated from the earth. [6] Partitions between control centres and internal muster areas shall correspond to Type A0, but external muster areas only to Type B15. [7] Partitions between lounges and internal muster areas shall correspond to Type A 30, but external muster areas only to Type B15. [8] Partitions between cabins, partitions between cabins and corridors and vertical partitions separating lounges according to paragraph 10 shall comply with Type B15, for rooms fitted with pressurised sprinkler systems B0. [9] Partitions between engine rooms according to Articles 15.07 and 15.10(6), shall comply with Type A60; in other cases they shall comply with Type A0. [10] B15 is sufficient for partitions between galleys, on the one hand, and cold-storage rooms and food store rooms, on the other. [11] Partitions between control centres and internal muster areas shall correspond to Type A0, but external muster areas only to Type B15. [12] Partitions between lounges and internal muster areas shall correspond to Type A 30, but external muster areas only to Type B15. [13] Partitions between cabins, partitions between cabins and corridors and vertical partitions separating lounges according to paragraph 10 shall comply with Type B15, for rooms fitted with pressurised sprinkler systems B0. [14] Partitions between engine rooms according to Articles 15.07 and 15.10(6), shall comply with Type A60; in other cases they shall comply with Type A0. [15] Distance from the cross-tree to the deck. [16] Total length of the topmast, without the masthead. [17] Diameter of the topmast at the level of the masthead fitting. [18] Total length of the bowsprit. [19] Total length of the jib-boom. [20] Total length of the main boom. [21] Total length of the gaff. [22] Distance from the top or cross-tree to the deck. [23] Distance from the top or cross-tree to the deck. [24] OJ L 207, 23.7.1998, p. 1.
Directive as amended by Directive 98/79/EC (OJ L 331, 7.12.1998, p. 1). [25] OJ L 164, 30.6.1994, p. 15.
Directive as last amended by Directive 2002/84/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 324, 29.11.2002, p. 53). -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX VIII RULES OF PROCEDURE FOR THE CARRYING OUT OF INSPECTIONS Article 1 If the authorities find upon inspection that the certificate carried on the vessel is invalid, or that the vessel does not satisfy the requirements set out in the certificate, but that such invalidity or failure to satisfy the requirements does not constitute a manifest danger, the owner of the vessel or his representative shall take all necessary measures to remedy the situation.
Signal lights are classified according to their luminous intensity as: - ordinary lights, - bright lights, - strong lights.
Article 1.03 Light sources "Light sources" means electrical or non-electrical devices designed to produce light fluxes in signal lanterns.
Article 1.06 Relation between IO, IB and t IO means the photometric luminous intensity in candelas (cd) measured at normal voltage for electric lights.
IO and IB are given in cd and t in km.
Maximum and minimum values Nature of the signal lights | Colour of signal light | White | Green/red | Yellow | Blue | min. | max. | min. | max. | min. | max. | min. | max. | ordinary | IO | 2.7 | 10.0 | 1.2 | 4.7 | 1.1 | 3.2 | 0.9 | 2.7 | IB | 2.0 | 7.5 | 0.9 | 3.5 | 0.8 | 2.4 | 0.7 | 2.0 | t | 2.3 | 3.7 | 1.7 | 2.8 | 1.6 | 2.5 | 1.5 | 2.3 | bright | IO | 12.0 | 33.0 | 6.7 | 27.0 | 4.8 | 20.0 | 6.7 | 27.0 | IB | 9.0 | 25.0 | 5.0 | 20.0 | 3.6 | 15.0 | 5.0 | 20.0 | t | 3.9 | 5.3 | 3.2 | 5.0 | 2.9 | 4.6 | 3.2 | 5.0 | strong | IO | 47.0 | 133.0 | - | - | 47.0 | 133.0 | - | - | IB | 35.0 | 100.0 | - | - | 35.0 | 100.0 | - | - | t | 5.9 | 8.0 | - | - | 5.9 | 8.0 | - | - | However, for daytime use of the yellow scintillating lights a minimum luminous intensity (IO) of 900 cd shall apply.
Article 4.02 Test procedure 1.
Article 4.03 Approval certificate 1.
Article 4.04 Spot checks 1.
Article 4.05 Markings 1.
Approved signal lanterns, optics and light sources shall be marked as indicated below: +++++ TIFF +++++ e.
nnn +++++ TIFF +++++ where " e" is the approval mark, "X" indicates the country of approval, where: 1 = Germany 2 = France 3 = Italy 4 = Netherlands 5 = Sweden 6 = Belgium 7 = Hungary 8 = Czech Republic 9 = Spain 11 = United Kingdom 12 = Austria 13 = Luxembourg 17 = Finland 18 = Denmark 20 = Poland 21 = Portugal 23 = Greece 24 = Ireland 26 = Slovenia 27 = Slovakia 29 = Estonia 32 = Latvia 36 = Lithuania 49 = Cyprus 50 = Malta "YY" are the last two figures of the year of approval, and "nnn" is the approval number assigned by the testing authority. 2.
Only approved signal lanterns, optics and light sources may bear the markings indicated in paragraph 1 above. 5.
Appendix +++++ TIFF +++++ PART II REQUIREMENTS CONCERNING THE CONDITIONS FOR TESTING AND APPROVAL OF SIGNAL LANTERNS FOR INLAND WATERWAY VESSELS CONTENTS Chapter 1 General provisions Article 1.01 Standard voltages 1.02 Operating requirements 1.03 Mounting 1.04 Photometric requirements 1.05 Components 1.06 Maintenance 1.07 Safety requirements 1.08 Accessories 1.09 Non-electric signal lanterns 1.10 Double lanterns Chapter 2 Photometric and colorimetric requirements Article 2.01 Photometric requirements 2.02 Colorimetric requirements Chapter 3 Manufacturing requirements Article 3.01 Electric lanterns 3.02 Filters and optical glasses 3.03 Electric light sources Chapter 4 Test and approval procedure Article 4.01 General rules of procedure 4.02 Application 4.03 Test 4.04 Approval 4.05 Cessation of validity of the approval Appendix Environment tests 1.
Vibration test 6.
Accelerated weather resistance test 7.
Article 1.09 Non-electric signal lanterns Non-electric lanterns shall be designed and manufactured in conformity with Articles 1.02 to 1.08 of this Chapter and so as to meet the requirements of Chapter 3.
CHAPTER 2 PHOTOMETRIC AND COLORIMETRIC REQUIREMENTS Article 2.01 Photometric requirements 1.
Signal lanterns and their accessories shall, on exposure to the ambient conditions listed in the Appendix, meet the requirements of their class of environment, as defined in paragraph 8(a). 9.
If the continuous use temperature of the non-metallic materials as so determined exceeds the maximum temperatures indicated in Tables X and XI in IEC publication 598, part 1, special examinations shall be carried out to determine the resistance to continuous mechanical, thermal and climatic stresses on these parts of the lanterns. 18.
The total duration of this test shall be at least 720 hours.
The wire used for the connection shall be at least of type HO 7 RN-F or equivalent. 23.
It shall be possible to position movable lanterns easily and safely. 26.
Article 3.02 Filters and optical glasses 1.
Filters and optical glasses of silicate glass shall be made of a glass at least of the class IV hydrolytic type referred to in ISO standard 719 guaranteeing durable resistance to water.
Filters and optical glasses shall meet the requirements of Article 3.01.
The red and green optical glasses of the side lights shall not be interchangeable. 5.
Article 3.03 Electric light sources 1.
Rated voltage V | Rated output W | Max.
Article 4.02 Application 1.
The following data and drawings are particularly relevant: - a longitudinal section showing the details of the structure of the filter and the profile of the light source (filament lamp), as well as the positioning and the mount, - a cross-section of the lantern halfway up the filter showing details of the layout of the light source, filter, the optical glass, if any, and the horizontal dispersion angle for sector lights, - a view from the rear for sector lights, with details of the holder or mount, - a view of circular lights with details of the holder or mount; (iv) data concerning dimensional tolerances in mass produced light sources, filters, optical glasses, mounting or holding devices and of the light source placed in the lantern in relation to the filter; (v) data concerning the horizontal luminous intensity of mass-produced sources at the rated voltage; (vi) data concerning mass-production tolerances for coloured glasses with regard to the colour and transparency of a standard illuminant A (2856 K) or the type of light from the intended light source. 2.
Article 4.03 Test 1.
Article 4.04 Approval 1.
Approval of signal lanterns shall be based on Articles 4.01 to 4.05 of Part I. 2.
The type of lantern protection shall be guaranteed in accordance with classification IP 55 of the IEC publication — Part 598-1.
Purpose and application This test is to determine the action of humid heat and of humidity during a change of temperature, as described in Article 3.01(10)(b), during operation or during transport or storage, on nautical installations, appliances and instruments, given that they could experience surface humidity from condensation.
The following specification is based on IEC publication 68, Part 2-30 in conjunction with Article 3.01(10)(a) and (b).
As the temperature rises, the relative humidity of the air is maintained at not less than 95 %, and at not less than 90 % during the last 15 minutes.
Results to be obtained 2.3.1.
Purpose This test is to determine the action of cold during operation or during transport and storage, in accordance with Article 3.01(8) and (10).
The operating data for phases 7 and 9 shall be within the tolerances permitted for the sample on the basis of these test and approval conditions. 4.
The following specification is based on IEC publication 68, Part 2-2 in conjunction with Article 3.01(10)(a).
Additional information can be found in the IEC publication. | Normal | Extreme | Environment tests | Climate classes X and S | + 55 °C | + 70 °C | Permissible tolerance ± 2 °C | The test under extreme ambient conditions shall, in principle, be performed first.
The sample is placed in a test chamber at a temperature of + 25 ± 10 °C corresponding to its normal use on board.
The sample is put into operation in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions at the rated voltage of the on-board network with a tolerance of ± 3 %.
The operating data for phases (2), (4) and (5) shall be within the tolerances permitted for the sample for normal ambient environment tests on the basis of these test and approval conditions. 5.
Vibration test 5.1.
Purpose and application This test is to determine the functional and structural effects of the vibrations referred to in Article 3.01(10)(e).
The following specification is based on IEC publication 68, Part 2-6 in conjunction with Article 3.01(10)(e).
Test requirements: The test shall be conducted with sinusoidal vibrations using the following frequencies with the amplitudes indicated: | Normal | Extreme | Environment tests | Vibration class V: | | | Frequencies | 2 to 10 Hz | 2 to 13,2 Hz* | Amplitude | ± 1,6 mm | ± 1,6 mm | Frequencies | 10 to 100 Hz | 13,2 to 100 Hz* | Acceleration amplitude | ± 7 m/s2 | ± 11 m/s2 | The test under extreme ambient conditions shall, in principle, be performed first.
Test apparatus The test is conducted using a vibrating device known as a vibrating table, which enables the sample to be subjected to mechanical vibrations in accordance with the following conditions: - The basic movement shall be sinusoidal and such that the mounting points of the sample basically move in phase and along parallel lines. - The maximum amplitude of vibration of the lateral movement of any mounting point shall not exceed 25 % of the specified amplitude of the basic movement. - The relative importance of the spurious vibration, expressed by the formula d =atot2–a12a1· 100(in %) where a1 is the effective value of the acceleration produced by the frequency applied, and where atot is the effective value of the total acceleration, including a1, measured in the frequencies %lt% 5000 Hz, shall not exceed 25 % at the mounting point taken as the point of reference for measurement of the acceleration. - The vibration amplitude shall not differ from its theoretical value by more than: ± 15 % at the mounting point taken as the point of reference and ± 25 % at any other mounting point.
In order to determine the characteristic frequencies, it must be possible to adjust the vibration amplitude in small steps between zero and the theoretical value. - The vibration frequency shall not differ from its theoretical value by more than ± 0,05 Hz | for frequencies up to 0,25 Hz, | ± 20% | for frequencies higher than 0,25 Hz and up to 5 Hz, | ± 1Hz | for frequencies higher than 5 Hz and up to 50 Hz, | ± 2% | for frequencies higher than 50 Hz, | In order to compare the characteristic frequencies, it must be possible to adjust them at the beginning and end of the vibration test to within: ± 0,05 Hz for frequencies up to 0,5 Hz, | ± 10% | ± 0,5 Hz for frequencies up to 5 Hz, | ± 0,5 Hz for frequencies higher than 5 Hz and up to 100 Hz, | ± 0,5% for frequencies higher than 100 Hz. | In order to scan the frequencies, it should be possible for the vibration frequency to vary continuously and exponentially in both directions between the lower and upper limits of the frequency ranges indicated in paragraph 5.1, with a scanning speed of 1 octave/minute ± 10 %.
The sample is put into operation in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions at the rated voltage of the on-board network with a tolerance of ± 3 %.
When the sample is in service as described in phase (2) above, it is subjected to five cycles during which the frequency range indicated as stress producing in paragraph 5.1, with the corresponding amplitudes, is covered each time from the lowest to the highest frequency and conversely, at a rate of one octave per minute.
In particular, this phase concerns appliances fitted with shock absorbers with a resonance frequency within the frequency range indicated in paragraph 5.1 and higher than 5 Hz.
The inspection of performance when subjected to vibrations referred to in phase 3 is repeated using the frequencies and amplitudes applied in that phase.
Results to be obtained The sample and its components and groups of components should not show any mechanical resonance vibrations in the frequency ranges indicated in paragraph 5.1.
In the case of the normal ambient test, the operating data recorded in phases 3 to 8 shall remain within the tolerances permitted on the basis of these test and approval conditions.
Accelerated weather resistance test 6.1.
The radiation flux shall be selected so that the intensity of radiation on the sample surface is 1000 ± 20O W.
m-2 in the 300 to 830 nm waveband (see paragraph 6.9 for the apparatus for measuring irradiation).
The experimental values show that the radiation flux from xenon lamps drops to 80 % of its initial value after approximately 1500 hours of operation; after this period, the proportion of ultra-violet radiation is also reduced noticeably compared with other forms of radiation.
The irradiation measuring apparatus shall be graduated or calibrated so that infra-red radiation over 830 nm is not taken into account.
The irradiation measuring apparatus may include the following parts, for example: (a) a silicon photo-electric cell as radiation sensor; (b) an optical filter placed in front of the photo-electric cell; and (c) a coulometer which measures the product (unit: C = A.s) of the intensity of the current produced in the photo-electric cell in proportion to radiation intensity (unit: A) and the duration of radiation (unit: s).
If this is not possible, the irradiation reading on the measuring apparatus shall be multiplied by a correction factor. 6.10.
Execution 6.10.1.
During the dry period, a local difference of ± 5 °C is permissible, and ± 3 °C in borderline cases.
Samples installed in mounts and the sensor of the irradiation measuring apparatus referred to in paragraph 6.9 are evenly exposed to radiation and sprinkled according to the cycle defined below, which is repeated successively: Sprinkling : 3 minutes Dry period: : 17 minutes The relative humidity of the air must be 60 to 80 % during the dry period. 6.11.
Its pH must be between 6,5 and 7,2 at a temperature of + 20 ± 2 °C and be kept within these limits during the operation.
Solution once sprayed must not be reused, - the compressed air used for spraying must be free of impurities such as oil or dust and shall have a humidity level of at least 85 % in order to avoid blockage of the nozzle, - the mist diffused in the chamber must have a density such that, in a clean receptacle with an open horizontal surface area of 80 cm2, placed anywhere in the chamber, the average precipitation over the whole time is between 1.0 ml and 2.0 ml per hour.
The sample is put into operation in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions at the rated voltage of the on-board network with a tolerance of ± 3 %.
It is kept in the air-conditioned chamber for seven days, at an air temperature of + 40 ± 2 °C and a relative humidity of 93 ± 3 %.
The sample is put into operation in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions at the rated voltage of the on-board network with a tolerance of ± 3 %.
PART III MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS AND TEST CONDITIONS FOR RADAR EQUIPMENT USED FOR NAVIGATION IN INLAND WATERWAY VESSELS CONTENTS Chapter 1: General Article 1.01 Scope Article 1.02 Purpose of the radar equipment Article 1.03 Approval testing Article 1.04 Application for approval testing Article 1.05 Type-approval Article 1.06 Marking of the equipment and approval number Article 1.07 Manufacturer's declaration Article 1.08 Modifications to approved equipment Chapter 2: General minimum requirements for radar equipment Article 2.01 Construction, design Article 2.02 Spurious emissions and electromagnetic compatibility Article 2.03 Operation Article 2.04 Operating instructions Article 2.05 Installation and operating tests Chapter 3: Minimum operational requirements for radar equipment Article 3.01 Operational readiness of radar equipment Article 3.02 Resolution Article 3.03 Range scales Article 3.04 Variable range marker Article 3.05 Lubber line Article 3.06 Off-centring Article 3.07 Bearing scale Article 3.08 Bearing facilities Article 3.09 Facilities for reducing sea and rain clutter Article 3.10 Reduction of interference from other radar equipment Article 3.11 Compatibility with radar beacons Article 3.12 Gain control Article 3.13 Frequency tuning Article 3.14 Nautical orientation lines and information on the screen Article 3.15 System sensitivity Article 3.16 Target trail Article 3.17 Slave indicators Chapter 4: Minimum technical requirements for radar equipment Article 4.01 Operation Article 4.02 Display Article 4.03 Radar picture characteristics Article 4.04 Colour of the display Article 4.05 Picture refreshment rate and persistence Article 4.06 Display linearity Article 4.07 Accuracy of range and azimuthal measurements Article 4.08 Antenna characteristics and emission spectrum Chapter 5 Test conditions and test methods for radar equipment Article 5.01 Safety, load capacity and interference diffusion Article 5.02 Spurious emissions and electromagnetic compatibility Article 5.03 Test procedure Article 5.04 Antenna measurements Appendix 1 Angular resolution in ranges up to and including 1200 m Appendix 2 Test field for determination of the resolution of radar equipment CHAPTER 1 GENERAL Article 1.01 Scope These provisions set out the minimum technical and operational requirements for radar equipment used for navigation in inland waterway vessels as well as the conditions for testing conformity with these minimum requirements.
Article 1.03 Approval testing Radar equipment may not be installed on board vessels until it has been established by means of a type test that the equipment meets the minimum requirements laid down in these provisions.
These documents and the information obtained during testing shall be kept by the competent testing authority. 4.
The competent authority shall immediately inform the Committee of the approval number assigned.
Article 1.07 Manufacturer's declaration Each unit of equipment shall be accompanied by a manufacturer's declaration to the effect that it meets the prevailing minimum requirements and that is identical in every respect to the equipment submitted for testing.
CHAPTER 2 GENERAL MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS FOR RADAR EQUIPMENT Article 2.01 Construction, design 1.
In the absence of any specific provision in Annex II to this Directive or in these provisions, the requirements and test methods contained in IEC publication 945 "Marine Navigational Equipment General Requirements" shall apply to power supply, safety, mutual interference of shipborne equipment, compass safe distance, resistance to climatic influences, mechanical strength, environmental influences, audible noise emission and equipment markings.
Article 2.02 Spurious emissions and electromagnetic compatibility 1.
In the frequency range of 30 to 2000 MHz, the field strength of spurious emissions shall not exceed 500 μV/m.
The equipment shall satisfy the minimum requirements at electromagnetic field strengths of up to 15 V/m in the immediate vicinity of the equipment under test in the frequency range of 30 to 2000 MHz.
Their arrangement shall be such as to prevent operating mistakes as far as possible.
Symbols shall meet the requirements of IMO Recommendation No A.278 (VIII) "Symbols for controls on marine navigational radar equipment" or the requirements contained in IEC publication No 417; all numerals and letters shall be at least 4 mm high.
Article 2.04 Operating instructions 1.
Article 2.05 Installation and operating tests Installation, replacement and operating tests shall be in accordance with the requirements of Part V.
CHAPTER 3 MINIMUM OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR RADAR EQUIPMENT Article 3.01 Operational readiness of radar equipment 1.
The required minimum resolution for shorter ranges up to and including 1200 m is shown in Appendix 1.
Functions that can cause a deterioration of resolution shall not be switchable in range scales up to 2000 m.
The radar equipment shall be provided with the following sequentially-switchable range scales and circles: Range scale 1 | 500 m one circle every 100 m | Range scale 2 | 800 m one circle every 200 m | Range scale 3 | 1200 m one circle every 200 m | Range scale 4 | 1600 m one circle every 400 m | Range scale 5 | 2000 m one circle every 400 m | 2.
Within eight seconds, it shall be possible to set the range marker to any distance. 3.
The 000 mark on the bearing scale shall be positioned in the middle of the upper edge of the screen. 3.
The bearing scale shall be marked in three-figure numbers from 000 to 360 degrees in a clockwise direction.
If an electronic bearing line is used, it shall: (a) be clearly distinguishable from the lubber line; (b) be displayed quasi-continuously; (c) be freely rotatable through 360 degrees left and right; (d) be at most 0,5 degrees wide at the edge of the screen; (e) extend from origin up to the bearing scale; (f) and complete a three- or four-figure decimal degree reading. 4.
If a mechanical bearing line is used, it shall: (a) be freely rotatable through 360 degrees left and right; (b) extend from the marked origin to the bearing scale; (c) bear no further markings; and (d) be designed in such a way that echo readings are not obscured unnecessarily.
The sea-clutter control (sensitivity time control — STC) shall, at its maximum setting, be effective up to a distance of approximately 1200 m. 3.
Article 3.11 Compatibility with radar beacons Signals from radar beacons in accordance with IMO resolution A.423 (XI) shall be displayed clearly with the rain clutter suppression (fast time constant — FTC) switched off.
The tuning scale shall have a length of at least 30 mm.
Article 3.14 Nautical orientation lines and information on the screen 1.
Article 3.15 System sensitivity The system sensitivity shall be such that a standard reflector at a distance of 1200 m appears clearly on the radar picture on every revolution of the antenna.
The target trail shall not impair the radar picture.
Article 3.17 Slave indicators Slave indicators shall comply with all requirements applicable to navigational radar equipment.
CHAPTER 4 MINIMUM TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS FOR RADAR EQUIPMENT Article 4.01 Operation 1.
The following functions must have their own controls with direct access: (a) Stand-by/on; (b) Range; (c) Tuning; (d) Gain; (e) Seaclutter (STC); (f) Rainclutter (FTC); (g) Variable range marker (VRM); (h) Cursor or electronic bearing line (EBL) (if fitted); (i) Ship's heading marker suppression (SHM).
They shall also have clearly perceptible contact release. 8.
Provided that the difference in brightness of some of the displayed values is only slight and the fixed range circle, the variable range circle and the bearing line can be switched off independently of each other, there may be four brightness controls, one for each of the following groups of values: (a) radar picture and lubber line; (b) fixed range circles; (c) variable range circles; (d) bearing line and bearing scale and nautical information as specified in Article 3.14(2). 10.
The brightness of the lubber line shall be adjustable but shall not be reducible to zero. 11.
The effective diameter of the radar picture shall be not less than 270 mm. 2.
The diameter of the outer range circle in the range scales specified in Article 3.03 shall be at least 90 % of the effective radar picture diameter. 3.
This periodical picture refreshment shall be effected at not less than 50 Hz. 3.
In all ranges up to 2000 m a fixed straight shore line at a distance of 30 m from the radar antenna shall be displayed as a straight continuous echo structure without observable distortions.
The determination of the distance to a target by means of variable or fixed range circles shall be accurate to ± 10 m or ± 1,5 %, whichever is the larger. 2.
The antenna drive system and the antenna shall be such as to allow correct operation at wind speeds of up to 100 km per hour. 2.
The horizontal radiation pattern of the antenna, measured in one direction, shall meet the following requirements: (a) - 3 dB, width of the main lobe: maximum 1,2 degrees; (b) - 20 dB, width of the main lobe: maximum 3,0 degrees; (c) side-lobe attenuation within ± 10 degrees around the main lobe: at least — 25 dB; (d) side-lobe attenuation outside ± 10 degrees around the main lobe: at least — 32 dB. 4.
The vertical radiation pattern of the antenna, measured in one direction, shall meet the following requirements: (a) - 3 dB, width of the main lobe: maximum 30 degrees; (b) the maximum of the main lobe shall be in the horizontal axis; (c) side-lobe attenuation: at least — 25 dB. 5.
The radiated high-frequency energy shall be horizontally polarised. 6.
CHAPTER 5 TEST CONDITIONS AND TEST METHODS FOR RADAR EQUIPMENT Article 5.01 Safety, load capacity and interference diffusion Power supply, safety, mutual interference of shipborne equipment, compass safe distance, resistance to climatic influences, mechanical strength, environmental impact and audible noise emission shall be tested in accordance with IEC publication 945 "Marine Navigational Equipment General Requirements".
Article 5.02 Spurious emissions and electromagnetic compatibility 1.
Spurious emissions shall be measured in accordance with IEC publication 945 "Marine Navigational Equipment Interference" in the frequency range of 30 to 2000 MHz.
The test field shown in Appendix 2 for the testing of radar equipment shall be arranged on a calm water surface at least 1,5 km long and 0,3 km wide, or on terrain with equivalent reflection properties. 2.
A standard reflector shall be a radar reflector which, at a wavelength of 3,2 cm, has an equivalent radar cross-section of 10 m2.
The equivalent radar cross-section (sigma) of a three-axis radar reflector with triangular surfaces for a frequency of 9 GHz (3,2 cm) shall be calculated according to the following formula: a = edge length in m For a standard reflector with triangular surfaces, the edge length a = 0,222 m.
All reflectors set up within the selected range shall, at all distances up to and including 1200 m, be shown on the screen simultaneously as clearly separated targets, regardless of the azimuthal position of the test field in relation to the lubber line.
Signals from radar beacons as described in Article 3.11 shall be displayed clearly.
Article 5.04 Antenna measurements The antenna characteristics shall be measured in accordance with IEC publication 936 "Shipborne Radar".
Appendix 1 Angular resolution in ranges up to and including 1200 m Appendix 2 Test field for determination of the resolution of radar equipment PART IV MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS AND TEST CONDITIONS FOR RATE-OF-TURN INDICATORS USED IN INLAND WATERWAY VESSELS CONTENTS Chapter 1: General Article 1.01 Scope Article 1.02 Purpose of the rate-of-turn indicator Article 1.03 Approval testing Article 1.04 Application for approval testing Article 1.05 Type-approval Article 1.06 Marking of the equipment and approval number Article 1.07 Manufacturer's declaration Article 1.08 Modifications to approved equipment Chapter 2: General minimum requirements for rate-of-turn indicators Article 2.01 Construction, design Article 2.02 Spurious emissions and electromagnetic compatibility Article 2.03 Operation Article 2.04 Operating instructions Article 2.05 Installation and operating tests Chapter 3: Minimum operational requirements for rate-of-turn indicators Article 3.01 Operational readiness of the rate-of-turn indicator Article 3.02 Indication of the rate of turn Article 3.03 Measuring ranges Article 3.04 Accuracy of the indicated rate of turn Article 3.05 Sensitivity Article 3.06 Monitoring of operation Article 3.07 Insensitivity to other normal movements of the vessel Article 3.08 Insensitivity to magnetic fields Article 3.09 Slave indicators Chapter 4: Minimum technical requirements for rate-of-turn indicators Article 4.01 Operation Article 4.02 Damping devices Article 4.03 Connection of additional equipment Chapter 5: Test conditions and procedures for rate-of-turn indicators Article 5.01 Safety, load capacity and interference diffusion Article 5.02 Spurious emissions and electromagnetic compatibility Article 5.03 Test procedure Appendix: Maximum tolerances for indication errors of rate-of-turn indicators CHAPTER 1 GENERAL Article 1.01 Scope These provisions set out the minimum technical and operational requirements for rate-of-turn indicators used in inland waterway vessels, as well as the conditions for testing conformity with these minimum requirements.
Article 1.03 Approval testing Rate-of-turn indicators may not be installed on board vessels until it has been established by means of a type test that they meet the minimum requirements laid down in these provisions.
These documents and the information obtained during testing shall be kept by the competent testing authority. 4.
The competent authority shall immediately inform the Committee of the approval number assigned.
Article 1.07 Manufacturer's declaration Each unit of equipment shall be accompanied by a manufacturer's declaration to the effect that it meets the prevailing minimum requirements and that is identical in every respect to the equipment submitted for testing.
In the absence of any specific provision in Annex II to this Directive or in these provisions, the requirements and test methods contained in IEC publication 945 "Marine Navigational Equipment General Requirements" shall apply to power supply, safety, mutual interference of shipborne equipment, compass safe distance, resistance to climatic influences, mechanical strength, environmental influences, audible noise emission and equipment markings.
Additionally, the equipment shall satisfy all requirements of these provisions at ambient temperatures between 0 and 40 °C.
Article 2.02 Spurious emissions and electromagnetic compatibility 1.
In the frequency range of 30 to 2000 MHz, the field strength of spurious emissions shall not exceed 500 μV/m.
The equipment shall satisfy the minimum requirements at electromagnetic field strengths of up to 15 V/m in the immediate vicinity of the equipment under test in the frequency range of 30 to 2000 MHz.
Their arrangement shall be such as to prevent operating mistakes as far as possible.
It shall be available in Dutch, English, French and German and shall contain at least the following information: (a) activation and operation; (b) maintenance and servicing; (c) general safety instructions.
Article 2.05 Installation and operating tests 1.
Installation, replacement and operating tests shall be in accordance with the requirements of Part V. 2.
From a cold start, the rate-of-turn indicator shall be fully operational within four minutes and shall operate to within the required accuracy tolerances. 2.
Article 3.05 Sensitivity The operating threshold shall be less than or equal to a change in angular speed equivalent to l % of the indicated value.
Article 3.09 Slave indicators Slave indicators shall comply with all requirements applicable to rate-of-turn indicators.
They shall also have clearly perceptible contact release.
The damping constant (63 % of the limit value) shall not exceed 0,4 seconds. 2.
Article 4.03 Connection of additional equipment 1.
CHAPTER 5 TEST CONDITIONS AND PROCEDURES FOR RATE-OF-TURN INDICATORS Article 5.01 Safety, load capacity and interference diffusion Power supply, safety, mutual interference of shipborne equipment, compass safe distance, resistance to climatic influences, mechanical strength, environmental impact and audible noise emission shall be tested in accordance with IEC publication 945 "Marine Navigational Equipment General Requirements".
Article 5.02 Spurious emissions and electromagnetic compatibility 1.
Spurious emissions shall be measured in accordance with IEC publication 945 "Marine Navigational Equipment Interference" in the frequency range of 30 to 2000 MHz.
Article 5.03 Test procedure 1.
Appendix Maximum tolerances for indication errors of rate-of-turn indicators +++++ TIFF +++++ PART V REQUIREMENTS FOR INSTALLATION AND PERFORMANCE TESTS FOR RADAR EQUIPMENT AND RATE-OF-TURN INDICATORS USED IN INLAND WATERWAY VESSELS CONTENTS Article 1 Scope Article 2 Approval of equipment Article 3 Approved specialised firms Article 4 Requirements for on-board power supply Article 5 Installation of the radar antenna Article 6 Installation of the display unit and the control unit Article 7 Installation of the rate-of-turn indicator Article 8 Installation of the position sensor Article 9 Installation and performance test Article 10 Installation and performance certificate Appendix Model installation and performance certificate for radar equipment and rate-of-turn indicators Article 1 Scope The purpose of these requirements is to ensure that in the interest of safety and orderly radar navigation on inland waterways in the Community, navigational radar equipment and rate-of-turn indicators are installed according to optimum technical and ergonomic standards and that installation is followed by a performance test.
Article 2 Approval of equipment For radar navigation on inland waterways in the Community, only equipment approved according to the applicable provisions of this Directive or of the Central Commission for Navigation on the Rhine and bearing an approval number shall be authorised for installation.
The installation, replacement, repair or maintenance of radar equipment and rate-of-turn indicators shall be carried out only by specialised firms approved by the competent authority in accordance with Article 1. 2.
Article 6 Installation of the display unit and the control unit 1.
For this purpose, the following conditions shall be fulfilled: (a) the power supply shall have a separate safety device; (b) the operating voltage shall be within the tolerance (Article 2.01 of Part III); (c) the cabling and its installation shall satisfy the provisions of Annex II and, if necessary, the ADNR; (d) the number of antenna revolutions shall reach at least 24 per minute; (e) there shall be no obstruction in the vicinity of the antenna which impairs navigation; (f) the safety switch of the antenna shall be in good working order; (g) the arrangement of display units, rate-of-turn indicators and control units shall be ergonomic and user-friendly; (h) the lubber line of the radar equipment shall not deviate from the ship's fore-and-aft-line by more than 1 degree; (i) the accuracy of the range and azimuthal displays shall satisfy the requirements (measurements using known targets); (k) linearity in short ranges shall be correct (pushing and pulling); (l) the displayed minimum range shall be 15 metres or less; (m) the centre of the picture shall be visible and its diameter shall not exceed 1 mm; (n) False echoes caused by reflections and unwanted shadows on the lubber line shall not occur or shall not impair the safety of navigation; (o) Sea-clutter and rain-clutter suppressors (STC and FTC preset) and the associated controls shall perform correctly; (p) the gain adjustment shall be in proper working order; (q) focus and picture definition shall be correct; (r) the ship's turning direction shall be as indicated on the rate-of-turn indicator and the zero position at dead ahead shall be correct; (s) the radar equipment shall not be sensitive to transmissions by the ship's radio equipment or to interference from other on-board sources; (t) the radar equipment and/or rate-of-turn indicator shall not interfere with other on-board equipment.
APPROVED RADAR EQUIPMENT pursuant to Article 1.06(4) of Part IV +++++ TIFF +++++ C.
APPROVED RATE-OF-TURN INDICATORS pursuant to Article 1.06(4) of Part IV +++++ TIFF +++++ D.
APPROVED SPECIALISED FIRMS FOR THE INSTALLATION OR REPLACEMENT OF RADAR EQUIPMENT AND RATE-OF-TURN INDICATORS pursuant to Article 3 of Part V +++++ TIFF +++++ [1] The rated voltage and frequency are those indicated by the manufacturer.Ranges of voltage and/or frequency may also be indicated. [2] Before measurement of the values at the start of the test, filament lamps shall have already been in service at the rated voltage for 60 minutes. [3] These limits shall be respected in an area extending ± 30° on either side of the horizontal line passing through the median point of the body of the lantern when the lamp is rotated through 360° on its axis. [4] Fundamental values of the E-12 IEC series: 1,0; 1,2; 1,5; 1,8; 2,2; 2,7; 3,3; 3,9; 4,7; 5,6; 6,8; 8,2. -------------------------------------------------- STATEMENT OF THE COUNCIL'S REASONS I.
INTRODUCTION In December 1997 the Commission submitted a proposal for a Council Directive amending Directive 82/714/EEC of 4 October 1982 laying down technical requirements for inland waterway vessels.
Whereas such a possibility was previously excluded under the rules established by the Central Commission for Navigation on the Rhine (CCNR), this situation changed when the CCNR adopted a modification of the Mannheim Act (Additional Protocol 7) on 27 November 2002, introducing a legal basis for navigation on the Rhine with certificates delivered by bodies other than the CCNR, such as the European Community.
Following revision of the entire text by legal-linguistic experts, the Council adopted its common position on 23 February 2006.
