Proposal for a Council Regulation concerning the conclusion of the Fisheries Partnership Agreement between the European Community and the Republic of Seychelles /* COM/2006/0097 final - CNS 2006/0029 */ [pic] | COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES | Brussels, 6.3.2006 COM(2006) 97 final 2006/0029 (CNS) Proposal for a COUNCIL REGULATION concerning the conclusion of the Fisheries Partnership Agreement between the European Community and the Republic of Seychelles (presented by the Commission) EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM Following the Council Conclusions on the Fisheries Partnership Agreements of July 2004, the Community renegotiates all existing framework agreements to be replaced by this new framework.
Article 2 The President of the Council is hereby authorised to designate the persons empowered to sign the Agreement in order to bind the Community.
Article 4 This Regulation shall enter into force on the third day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union .
Article 5 This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
The Parties hereby undertake to ensure that this Agreement is implemented in accordance with the principles of good economic and social governance. 5.
During the period covered by this Agreement, the Community and Seychelles shall monitor the evolution of resources in Seychelles' fishing zone; a joint scientific meeting shall be held annually to that end, alternately in the Community and in Seychelles. 2.
Based on the conclusions of the annual scientific meeting and the best available scientific advice, the Parties shall consult each other within the Joint Committee provided for in Article 9 and, where necessary and by mutual agreement, take measures to ensure the sustainable management of fisheries resources. 3.
Article 5 – Access by Community vessels to the fisheries in Seychelles’ waters 1.
Seychelles hereby undertakes to authorise Community vessels to engage in fishing activities in its fishing zone in accordance with this Agreement, including the Protocol and Annex thereto. 2.
The Seychelles authorities shall notify the Commission of any amendments to that legislation. 3.
Article 8 – Promoting cooperation among economic operators and in civil society 1.
Article 9 – Joint Committee 1.
Article 10 – Geographical area to which the Agreement applies This Agreement shall apply, on the one hand, to the territories in which the Treaty establishing the European Community applies, under the conditions laid down in that Treaty and, on the other, to the territory of Seychelles.
Article 11 – Duration This Agreement shall apply for six years from the date of its entry into force; it shall be renewable for additional periods of six years, unless notice of termination is given in accordance with Article 12.
Article 12– Termination 1.
Payment of the financial contribution referred to in Article 7 for the year in which the termination takes effect shall be reduced proportionately and pro rata temporis .
Article 13 – Suspension 1.
Payment of the financial contribution referred to in Article 7 shall be reduced proportionately and pro rata temporis, according to the duration of the suspension.
Article 15 –Abrogation and transitory provisions 1.
This Agreement repeals and replaces the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Seychelles on fishing off Seychelles of 1987 by the date of its entry into force. 2.
However, the Protocol defining for the period from 18 January 2005 to 17 January 2011 the fishing possibilities and the financial contribution provided for by the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Seychelles on fishing off Seychelles remains into force during the period indicated in its Article 1 and becomes and integral part of this Agreement.
Article 16 – Entry into force This Agreement, drawn up in duplicate in the Czech, Estonian, Danish, Dutch, English, Finnish, French, German, Greek, Hungarian, Italian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Maltese, Polish, Portuguese, Slovak, Slovenian, Spanish and Swedish languages, each of these texts being equally authentic, shall enter into force on the date on which the Parties notify one other that their adoption procedures have been completed. **** [1] OJ L… [2] OJ L… [3] OJ L 119, 7.5.1987, p. 26.
