The text of the Protocol was initialled by the Commission and the authorities on 30 September 2004 in Brussels.
AMENDMENTS TO THE TEXT OF THE EURO-MEDITERRANEAN AGREEMENT INCLUDING ITS ANNEXES AND PROTOCOLS Article 3 (Agricultural products) 1.
Article 4 (Rules of origin) Protocol 4 shall be amended as follows: 1.
Article 7 (Goods in transit) The provisions of the Agreement may be applied to goods exported either from Morocco to one of the new Member States or from one of the new Member States to Morocco, which comply with the provisions of Protocol 4 and which, on the date of accession, are either en route or in temporary storage, in a customs warehouse or in a free zone in Morocco or in that new Member State.
GENERAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS Article 8 Under this Protocol it is agreed that no claim, request or referral can be submitted and no concession pursuant to GATT Articles XXIV.6 and XXVIII can be modified or withdrawn in relation to this enlargement of the Community.
Article 9 For 2004, the volumes of the new tariff quotas and reference quantities and increases in the volume of existing tariff quotas will be calculated as a prorata of the basic volumes, taking into account the part of the period elapsed before the application of this Protocol.
Article 11 This Protocol shall be approved by the Community, by the Council of the European Union on behalf of the Member States, and by Morocco in accordance with their own procedures.
Article 12 This Protocol shall enter into force on the first day of the first month following the date of the deposit of the last instrument of approval.
Article 13 This Protocol is drawn up in duplicate in each of the official languages of the Contracting Parties, each of these texts being equally authentic.
Article 14 The text of the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement, including the annexes and protocols forming an integral part thereof, and the Final Act together with the declarations annexed thereto shall be drawn up in the Czech, Estonian, Hungarian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Maltese, Polish, Slovak and Slovenian languages and these texts shall be authentic in the same way as the original texts.
Where the Common Customs Tariff provides for the application of ad valorem customs duties and a specific customs duty in respect of certain products marked by an asterisk in column (a) or (c), the rates of reduction shown in column (a) and in column (c), as referred to in paragraph 3, shall apply only to the ad valorem customs duty.
For CN codes 0705 19 00, 0705 29 00, 0706 10 00 and 0706 90 a reference quantity indicated in column (d) shall be set.
For the first year of application of the Agreement, except for tomatoes falling within CN code 0702 00 00, the volumes of the tariff quotas for which the quota period began before the entry into application of this agreement shall be calculated as a pro rata of the basic volumes, taking into account the part of the period which elapsed before this date.
For some of the products listed in Annex 1.A and indicated in column (d), the quotas shall be increased from 1 January 2004 to 1 January 2007 on the basis of four equal instalments, each corresponding to 3% of the quota amounts.
When the total quantity of tomatoes originating in Morocco released for free circulation in the Community during a given marketing year does not exceed the sum of the basic monthly quotas and the additional quota applicable for that marketing year, the additional quota for the following marketing year shall be that indicated at line A in paragraph 1 above.
Drawings on the basic monthly tariff quotas shall be stopped on 15 January for the months from October to December each marketing year and on the second working day after 1 April for the months from January to March.
Morocco shall notify the Commission of weekly exports to the Community within a space of time which allows precise and accurate reporting.
Article 6 Without prejudice to other provisions of this Agreement, if, given the particular sensitivity of the agricultural markets, imports of products originating in Morocco which are the subject of concessions granted under this Protocol cause serious disturbance to Community markets within the meaning of Article 25 of the Agreement, both Parties shall hold consultations immediately to find an appropriate solution.
Article 7 Wine originating in Morocco bearing a registered designation of origin shall be accompanied by a certificate indicating the origin in accordance with the model in Annex IB to this Protocol or by a V I 1 or V I 2 document annotated in accordance with Article 25 of Regulation (EC) No 883/2001 on the certificates and analyses required for imports of wine, grape juice and grape must.
PROTOCOL 3 concerning the arrangements applicable to imports into Morocco of agricultural products originating in the Community Article 1 The import duties on imports into Morocco of products originating in the Community as listed in the Annex hereto shall be as set in column (a) of the Annex.
For products falling within CN code ex 1001 90 99 as referred to in the Annex, the duty indicated in column (a) of the Annex shall be that applied on 1 October 2003 and shall remain at or below that level for the purposes of calculating the tariff reduction.
However, any extension may not go beyond 31 August.
If, after the entry into force of this Agreement, Morocco grants a larger tariff reduction on cereals falling within CN code ex 1001 90 99 to a third country under an international agreement, Morocco undertakes to grant the same tariff reduction to the Community as an autonomous measure.
Article 3 Without prejudice to other provisions of this Agreement, if, given the particular sensitivity of the agricultural markets, imports of products originating in the Community which are the subject of concessions granted under this Protocol, cause serious disturbance to the Moroccan market within the meaning of Article 25 of the Agreement, both Parties shall hold consultations immediately to find an appropriate solution.
If the tendering arrangements are changed or if a system of direct payments is introduced, the Parties agree to hold consultations under Article 20 of the Association Agreement. +++++ TABLE +++++
