Report from the Commission to the Council, the European Parliament and the European Economic and Social Committee on the application of Council Decision 2001/470/EC establishing a European Judicial Network in civil and commercial matters {SEC(2006) 579} /* COM/2006/0203 final */ [pic] | COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES | Brussels, 16.5.2006 COM(2006) 203 final REPORT FROM THE COMMISSION TO THE COUNCIL, THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE EUROPEAN ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL COMMITTEE on the application of Council Decision 2001/470/EC establishing a European Judicial Network in civil and commercial matters {SEC(2006) 579} BACKGROUND This Commission report is established in accordance with Article 19 of Council Decision No 2001/470/EC of 28 May 2001 (“the Decision”) establishing a European Judicial Network in civil and commercial matters[1] (“the Network”).
The December 1998 Vienna action plan[3] called for the establishment of a judicial network in civil matters on the model of the criminal network, while the 1999 Tampere European Council called on the Commission to establish “an easily accessible information system to be maintained and up-dated by a network of competent national authorities”.
CHARACTERISTICS AND OPERATION OF THE NETWORK The Network’s contact points In October 2005 the network comprised 424 members in four categories: a) the contact points (93 members); b) the central authorities provided for in Community instruments and international agreements (159 members); c) the liaison magistrates (13 members); d) other judicial or administrative authorities with responsibilities for judicial cooperation (159 members).
Particulars of the contact points were distributed in each Member State in 2003 and 2005 by means of information leaflets published by the Commission.
In addition, only a few are linked by intranet to the judicial system or have managed to set up pages for the Network on a national website.
Certain contact points combine their functions either with those of the central authorities referred to above (at least 8 out of 24), or with other functions in the central administration of justice, which means that they also represent their Member State in negotiations in Council working parties.
To enable the Network to become operational when the Council Decision came into force on 2 December 2002, the Commission organised three preparatory meetings in 2002.
The Network was thus able to hold its inaugural meeting on 4 December 2002.
There were four meetings each in 2003 and 2004 and five in 2005.
The contact points met fourteen times between 11 February 2003 and 15 November 2005.
The rate of attendance at meetings of contact points was average - two delegates out of a possible four at the eight meetings held between June 2004 and September 2005.
The second annual meeting, held on 15 and 16 January 2004, was devoted to a first assessment of a year’s cooperation in the Network.
The third annual meeting was held for the first time in a Member State, in Madrid on 13 and 14 December 2004, at the invitation of the General Council of the Spanish judicial authority.
The UK Presidency, acting on a request from the Commission reflecting the wish expressed by members, organised a discussion on the role of the Network in the service of the general public at the informal meeting of Justice Ministers in Newcastle in September 2005.
But by 1 November 2005 only eight Member States were using the register and only 115 new cases had been entered.
The Commission manages this website, which it hosts on its Europa site at the following address: http://europa.eu.int/civiljustice For the 18 legal topics on the site, it has prepared the general information, Community law and international law pages and the general structure of the national pages.
Meetings of contact points in 2003 and 2004 were largely devoted to discussions on the structure of the national law pages, subsequently written by the Member States using the common model.
In 2003 more than 500 000 copies of a booklet targeted at the general public entitled “Civil law at your fingertips” were distributed in the Union.
As part of the European Day of Civil Justice established by the Commission and the Council of Europe, the Network has contributed actively since October 2003 to information and awareness-raising campaigns on the operation of civil justice in the Member States.
THE NETWORK’S OBJECTIVES The Decision on the Network pursues three fundamental objectives: - improving and facilitating judicial cooperation in civil and commercial matters between the Member States in all fields; - improving the effective and practical application of Community instruments and conventions in force between two or more Member States; - promoting effective access to justice for the general public.
The Network’s role in the dissemination of information in the courts is indeed crucial, but it is also crucial to ensure that information on difficulties met in dealing with practical cases flows from the courts to the contact points.
Facilitating information on civil justice One of the objectives set for the Network was to prepare and update information on judicial cooperation in civil and commercial matters and the legal systems of the Member States in an accessible web-based information system.
The Network’s website was put on-line in March 2003 and already offers the public more than 2000 pages on 18 topics affecting the daily life of citizens and companies for consultation in 20 Community languages.
The EIA (European Information Association at http://www.eia.org.uk) gave the Network’s site its Award for Excellence in European Information Sources (electronic sources category) in 2003.
Nor was the Commission able to quickly translate all the pages into all the Union’s 20 official languages.
SPECIFIC ISSUES PROVIDED FOR BY ARTICLE 19 OF THE DECISION Direct public access to the Network Members of the Network generally consider that it is too early to envisage direct public access to the contact points until the resources made available to them by the Member States have been significantly expanded.
The question of possible direct access for other legal actors and of associating the legal professions in its work was discussed by the contact points in detail in 2005.
Synergy with the European Consumer Centres Network (“ECC-Net”) Article 19 of the Decision requires the report to consider the question of synergy with the European Extrajudicial Network for the settlement of consumer disputes (EEJ-NET).
An ECC-Net (“European Consumer Centres”) was set up at the beginning of 2005 following the assistance merger of the old “European Information Centres”, which provided information and assistance in the event of cross-border consumer disputes, and the European Extrajudicial Network (EEJ- NET).
Relations between the various members of the Network In addition, the Commission notes that the synergies between the various members of the network in each Member States have been felt to be rather weak.
It is recommended that the respective roles of contact points and central authorities, as defined in Articles 5 and 6 of the Decision, be clarified and good working relationships between them be established.
local contact point correspondents to be established in the courts in each Member State; 5.
information campaigns to be conducted in each Member State on the Network’s activities and the instruments of judicial cooperation, designed for the national courts; 7.
the functions of Network contact point and central authority to be clearly differentiated in the Member States or measures to be taken to ensure that contact points can fully perform their functions; 14.
