EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM The "Generation IV" International Forum (GIF) initiative, launched at the beginning of 2000 by the US-DOE, concerns concepts for one or more nuclear energy systems that can be operated in a manner that will provide a competitive and reliable supply of energy, while satisfactorily addressing nuclear safety, waste, proliferation and public perception concerns.
The GIF Charter was signed on behalf of Euratom on 30 July 2003 based on the Commission decision number C(2002)4287.
Article 2 If the Parties to the Generation IV International Forum accept this accession without any further comment, the Commission is authorised to sign the attached Framework Agreement on behalf of the Community.
Each Party shall, upon signature or deposit of an instrument of accession, designate itself or one or more of its ministries, departments, agencies or other entities as its Implementing Agent(s) to accomplish the objective set forth in Article I of this Framework Agreement.
ARTICLE IV System Arrangements 1.
In the event of any inconsistency between a System Arrangement and this Framework Agreement, the provisions of this Framework Agreement shall prevail.
ARTICLE V Project Arrangements 1.
In case of any inconsistency between a System Arrangement or Project Arrangement on the one hand, and this Framework Agreement on the other hand, the provisions of this Framework Agreement shall prevail.
ARTICLE X Settlement of Disputes 1.
ARTICLE XI Depositary 1.
ARTICLE XII Entry into Force, Amendment, Extension and Termination 1.
Thereafter, this Framework Agreement shall enter into force for a signatory on the date of deposit of its instrument of ratification, acceptance or approval; and shall enter into force for additional Parties in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3 of Article XIV. 3.
Subject to paragraph 5 of this Article, this Framework Agreement shall remain in force for a period of 10 years, and may be extended for additional periods by agreement of the Parties, in accordance with procedures to be elaborated by the Parties. 4.
Except as provided in paragraph 2 of Article XIV, an amendment shall enter into force for all Parties 30 days following the date of receipt by the Depositary of the last written notification of acceptance of the amendment. 5.
ARTICLE XIII Withdrawal 1.
ARTICLE XIV Additional Parties 1.
After entry into force of this Framework Agreement, any state, one or more of whose ministries, departments, agencies or other entities is a GIF member, and any GIF member composed of more than one state, may become a Party to this Framework Agreement by depositing with the Depositary an instrument of accession and a written notification of the Implementing Agent(s) to be designated in accordance with paragraph 2 of Article III. 2.
When an additional Party deposits its instrument of accession and notification in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Article, the Depositary shall circulate a proposed amendment to the Annex to specify the Implementing Agent(s) notified by that Party.
Such amendment shall enter into force 90 days after the date of receipt by the Depositary of that Party’s notification, provided that no other Party has notified the Depositary that it objects to the proposed amendment.
This Framework Agreement shall enter into force as to each additional Party 90 days following the Depositary’s receipt of the instrument of accession of a state, one or more of whose ministries, departments, agencies or other entities is a GIF member, or of a GIF member composed of more than one state. 4.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the undersigned, being duly authorized, have signed this Framework Agreement.
DONE at Washington, in a single original, on the twenty-eighth day of February 2005, in the English and French languages, each text being equally authentic. [pic] [pic]
