Draft interinstitutional agreement on inter-institutional co-operation in the framework of international Conventions to which the European Atomic Energy Community and its Member States are parties {SEC(2006) 519} /* COM/2006/0179 final */ [pic] | COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES | Brussels, 28.4.2006 COM(2006) 179 final Draft INTERINSTITUTIONAL AGREEMENT on inter-institutional co-operation in the framework of international Conventions to which the European Atomic Energy Community and its Member States are parties (presented by the Commission) {SEC(2006) 519} EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM 1.
EURATOM EXTERNAL COMPETENCE The main task of the European Atomic Energy Community created in 1957, as stipulated in Article 1 of the Euratom Treaty, is “to contribute to the raising of the standards of living in the Member States and to the development of relations with other countries by creating the conditions necessary for the speedy establishment and growth of nuclear industries”.
Recently, concerning the accession of the Community to the Convention on Nuclear Safety, the opinion of Advocate-General Jacobs, based on which the Court gave judgment on 10 December 2002, confirmed that: “Under Article 101(1) of the Treaty the Community may conclude international agreements ‘within the limits of its powers and jurisdiction’.
EURATOM OBLIGATIONS ARISING FROM ITS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 3.1.
The Community and the Member States when implementing their international obligations in this field, which fall in part within the Community’s competence and in part within that of the Member States, have therefore to respect the following principles: - Principle of co-operation : the Member States and the Community institutions shall co-operate closely in order to ensure the best possible result. - Principle of coordination : the Member States and the Community shall coordinate their positions, always upholding a common position. - Principle of solidarity : This principle is laid down in Article 192 of the Euratom Treaty: “Member States shall take all appropriate measures whether general or particular, to ensure fulfilment of the obligations arising out of this Treaty or resulting from action taken by the institutions of the Community.
The proposed agreement provides that Member States who so wish may take part in the Euratom delegation in order to ensure the unity of the Community’s representation vis-à-vis third parties. 3.4.
Co-ordination: the Member States and the Community institutions shall coordinate their positions in order to uphold a common position. 3.
Prior to a revision or an amendment conference, the Commission and the Member States shall undertake consultations in the Council in order to establish a common position. 2.
European Court reports 2002, p.
