At its 420th plenary session, held on 28- 29 September 2005 (meeting of 28 September), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 90 votes to six with 12 abstentions.
The Interinstitutional Agreement of 2003 on Better Lawmaking also referred to %quot%better transposition and application%quot%. 1.11 In a number of cases the EU Court of Justice has ruled on the obligation of Member States to ensure effective implementation and enforcement [5]. 1.12 The Commission has produced several documents elaborating how the Member States could improve their transposition and application performance [6].
Most recently, its Communication of 16 March 2005 on Better Regulation for Growth and Jobs in the European Union outlined a course of action for improving the Community regulatory framework without excessive administrative costs. 1.13 Since 1985 the New Approach has been increasingly, a very useful tool in enhancing effective harmonisation of standards and regulatory approaches.
Context and developments 2.1 While the EC Treaty provides for a variety of approximation and harmonisation measures to complete the internal market [11], experience in the 1970s and early 1980s has shown that complete harmonisation is a slow, cumbersome and, in certain cases, unnecessary process.
Among these are the following: - EU instruments providing for full harmonisation of legislation; - EU instruments providing for minimum harmonisation, enabling Member States to adopt stricter rules (which in a cross-border context can be applied only subject to a mutual recognition test); - %quot%new approach%quot% directives, aiming at establishing essential requirements that must be met by products in the EU market; - EU legislation based on a %quot%country of origin%quot% principle; - framework directives, leaving considerable discretion to Member States as regards implementation; - recommendations which can be translated into Member States' law; - decisions. 2.10 This broad set of Community-based instruments that require transposition, implementation and enforcement in the Member States often gives cause to national and thus different interpretations of what is to be implemented and enforced at national level and how this is to be done. 2.11 The practical impact of the model as it operates at present takes into account in varying degrees the following elements as far as the Member States are concerned: - different national legal cultures and systems; - diverging responsibilities within national administrations and within ministries; - specific regional and local competences in the Member States; - influence of national lobbies — political, socio-economic and societal; - domestic needs/desirabilities, leading to gold-plating and cherry picking; - financial and organisational resources to implement correctly. 2.12 The EU approach, of course, respects the diversity of Member States and their rich administrative traditions, legal cultures and political systems.
The extension of competences of the Union and the ongoing enlargement underline the complexity of this task. 2.13 As for the Commission, some specific compelling elements which have effects on the final outcome include: - imprecise use of technical and legal language (including translation problems) when legislation is drawn up; - varying degrees of using more or less binding legal instruments, as a consequence of decisions by the Council; - varying degrees of involvement in implementation and enforcement within the Commission; there are important differences between the DGs; - sometimes a lack of clarity about the prerogatives of the Member States and/or the prerogatives of the Commission because of the impact of subsidiarity; - sometimes a lack of sufficient personnel in the Commission; - linguistic problems (in carrying out surveillance in the new Member States); - significance and impact of infringement procedures. 2.14 Together with the growth in Community legislation there has been a corresponding increase in non-legal instruments and processes whose aim is to induce Member States to implement EU law in a timely and correct manner, such as the regular reports and Scoreboards on the transposition record of Member States. 2.15 In addition, the Commission has undertaken several actions to inform citizens and business of their rights and encourage them to exercise those rights before national authorities and in national courts.
For example, the contact points for citizens and businesses and SOLVIT Centres aim to identify and resolve difficulties experienced by persons and companies that move to or operate in Member States other than their own. 2.16 The latest report on the cases dealt with by SOLVIT Centres shows that over 50 % of all problems concern recognition of professional qualifications, market access for products, motor vehicle registration and residence permits.
Moreover, despite the success of SOLVIT Centres, 20 % of the problems are not solved.
The EU should also consider how to avoid a situation whereby a Union of 27 or more Member States with ever greater diversity may itself lead to certain barriers to trade, investment and establishment. 3.5 There are various views on the problem of solving misapplication of EU law which, from a political perspective, is related to tensions between subsidiarity and a Community approach.
The Commission should consider how to expand the recommendations it made in 2004 (see above) on timely and correct transposition to also cover the stage of implementation and enforcement. 3.7 As co-owners of the Union, Member States have a duty to act loyally towards the Union, fulfil their obligations, facilitate the achievement of the tasks of the Community and refrain from jeopardising the objectives of Article 10 of the EC Treaty.
To be clear: the attitude of the Member States has to reflect that they themselves are the European Union, and that they invest accordingly in the Union's decisions [15]. 3.8 The European Court of Justice has clearly ruled in numerous cases that Member States may not plead in their defence the existence of any internal administrative difficulties in order to justify incomplete or improper implementation of Community legislation.
These rulings may help to improve proceedings to be foreseen for the future. 3.9 It will also be necessary to reflect on the kind of legal and non-legal instruments and procedures that will be the most appropriate in guaranteeing effective policy implementation in a Union with more than 30 members. 3.10 The results from the use of non-legal instruments and procedures have been rather mixed.
By contrast, SOLVIT Centres have resolved 80 % of the problems they have had to deal with. 3.11 The Competitiveness Council, in its March 2005 Conclusions, invited the Member States to screen domestic legislation for compatibility with EU rules in order to remove market barriers and open up competition.
The EESC agrees with the Commission that in an EU of 25 Member States the focus ought to be on implementation and enforcement of existing legislation rather than on adding new regulation.
The EESC considers that a general rule could be introduced whereby Member States, in notifying national implementing measures, justify formally with transposition tables to the Commission that these are in complete and full conformity with Community law. 4.2.9 It may be desirable that Member States provide more and better information about rights and obligations both within their own administrations and to the general public.
p. 21. [6] See lately Commission recommendation of 12 July 2004, 2005/309/EC. [7] White Paper on European Governance, COM(2001) 428 final, p. 25. [8] Enhancing the Implementation of the New Approach Directives, COM(2003) 240 final, p. 3. [9] COM(2005) 11 final, 27 January 2005. [10] OJ L 98/47, 16.4.2005 [11] Articles 94-97 of the EC Treaty. [12] See the White Paper on European Governance, COM(2001) 428 final. [13] For example, the Commission's XXIst Report on Monitoring the Application of Community Law, COM(2004) 839, 30.12.2004. [14] See also: J.
Vervaele, Compliance and Enforcement of European Community Law, The Hague, Kluwer Law International, 1999, Ph.
Nicolaides, From Graphite to Diamond: The Importance of Institutional Structure in Establishing Capacity for Effective and Credible Application of EU Rules, European Institute of Public Administration, 2002 and references cited therein. [15] An analysis of the negative outcome of the referenda in France and The Netherlands shows to what deceiving extent public opinion and some politicians (!) still qualify the relationship between a Member State and %quot%Brussels%quot% in terms of %quot%we%quot% and %quot%they%quot%. [16] This consideration is perfectly in line with remarks in EESC's Opinions since 2000 on updating, simplifying and improving the acquis communautaire and the regulatory environment. [17] %quot%The Current State of Co-Regulation and Self-Regulation in the Single Market%quot%, rapporteur Mr Vever, CESE 1182/2004. [18] The outcome of the EESC questionnaire – see Appendix B – contains examples that stress the need for such ex post evaluations. [19] The UK government has recently established a Panel for Regulatory Accountability.
Voting: For: 43 Against: 45 Abstentions: 7 Point 2.1 Amend as follows: %quot%2.1 While the EC Treaty provides for a variety of approximation and harmonisation measures to complete the internal market [1], experience in the 1970s and early 1980s has shown that complete harmonisation is a slow, cumbersome and unnecessary process.
