Air transport policy in Chile – Pioneering the Liberalisation of Air Transport Chile is one of the most advanced countries with regard to the liberalisation of air transport.
Air carriers are authorised to operate if they have a valid Air Operators Certificate, affirming the ability to secure safe aviation activities, and if they comply with the necessary insurance requirements. - Contrary to worldwide practices, Chile allows foreign air carriers to operate domestic flights, based on reciprocity. - In the bilateral relations with more than 30 countries, Chile has granted unlimited third and fourth freedom traffic rights.[6] - International traffic rights are allocated in a public auction in case there is more than one applicant.
monopolistic or quasi-monopolistic routes, is supervised by the aviation authorities. - The economic liberalisation of the air transport sector has been accompanied by strict enforcement of safety and security standards, user rights and competition rules. - The airport sector is open to private investment.
In 2003, Chilean exports to the EU totalled € 7 billion.
EU exports to Chile account for € 3 billion.
The existing restrictions constrain the potential growth of air services between the EU and Chile .
Tourism flows between the EU and Chile have increased 50% between 1998 and 2004 [17] but further growth of the tourism market could be hampered by the existing restrictions in the air services agreements if no action is taken.
Eliminating the existing restrictions on air services would facilitate an unconstrained growth of trade between the EU and Chile , particularly given the long distance and the substantial share of perishable goods in the trade relations with Chile.
An increase in air services, particularly an increase in direct air services, will facilitate a further increase in trade and tourism flows between the EU and Chile .
An enhanced regulatory cooperation between the EU and Chile would facilitate further the air services between the EU and Chile .
Chile has already concluded the most liberal bilateral air services agreement in the world with Uruguay, which even includes access to domestic flights.
Chile has recently strengthened its cooperation with both Argentina and Brazil in the field of air transport and signed a new ‘open skies’ agreement with Paraguay.
The main Chilean airline, LAN, has established affiliates in Peru, Ecuador and Argentina.
It was confirmed that the regulatory and policy framework for air transport in Chile should allow the Community to reach without great obstacles a model agreement with Chile achieving greater levels of regulatory convergence and new opportunities for EU industry and users.
Furthermore, the study underlined the substantial economic benefits in the longer term for the European airline industry, air transport users and other economic actors, taking into account the implications for relations with other Latin American countries. 5.
The resulting agreement on the liberalisation of air transport between the European Community and Chile would establish a modern framework for air services between the EU and Chile , with market access as open as possible and regulatory co-operation and convergence.
The reciprocal opening of market access with Chile has already been implemented by some Member States.
A comprehensive air transport agreement on a Community level would make the Community’s aviation relations with Chile coherent and would grant equal opportunities for all Community air carriers for air services to Chile .
Furthermore, it would create substantial new market opportunities for air carriers in the 14 Member States that currently do not have any rights concerning air transport from and to Chile.
A comprehensive air transport agreement with Chile on a Community level will equally reinforce high standards of safety, security, environmental protection, passenger protection and other regulatory issues .
Safeguarding fair competition is a key issue in open aviation markets.
In informal exploratory talks, Chile has confirmed its willingness to achieve a high degree of regulatory convergence with the Community in order to facilitate air services between the EU and Chile.
In light of the above, the European Commission recommends that the Council authorises the Commission to open negotiations with Chile with a view to concluding a comprehensive air transport agreement.
The Commission will work closely together with Member States and all relevant stakeholders in further developing and achieving the objectives set out in the negotiating directives. [1] COM (2005) 79. [2] Council Conclusions of 27 June 2005 on developing the agenda for the Community’s external aviation policy. [3] The ‘Horizontal Agreement’ replaces provisions in the bilateral air services agreements between EU Member States and Chile, which have been found incompatible with EC law, with a Community agreement. [4] Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Spain, Sweden and the United Kingdom. [5] COM (2004) 829, Proposal for a Council Decision on the signature and the provisional application of the Agreement between the European Community and the Republic of Chile on certain aspects of air services.
The Agreement entered into force on 1 March 2005. [11] Art. 94 of the Association Agreement. [12] Art. 95 (2d) of the Association Agreement. [13] Source: Eurostat (2004). [14] Joint Declaration of the 2nd EU-Chile Association Council, 26 May 2005. [15] Spain, Germany and France account for more than 90% of the passenger traffic between the EU and Chile. [16] Source: IATA Passenger Forecasts 2004-2008. [17] Source: Sernatur, Estadisticas de Turismo. [18] Passenger market shares in 2004: Lan Chile 32%, Iberia 31%, Lufthansa 20%, Air France 12%.
Freight market shares in 2004: Lan Chile 30%, Iberia 22%, Martinair 18%, Air France 13%, Cargolux 10%, Lufthansa 7%.
Source: Junta de Aeronautica Civil. [19] Source: Sernatur (2005). [20] The Brattle Group, The Economic Impact of an EU-US Open Aviation Area, Study prepared for the European Commission, December 2002.
