Article 2 Definitions For the purposes of this Framework Decision: (a) "competent law enforcement authority": a national police, customs or other authority, that is authorised by national law to detect, prevent or investigate offences or criminal activities and to exercise authority and take coercive measures in the context of such activities.
TITLE II EXCHANGE OF INFORMATION AND INTELLIGENCE Article 4 Provision of information and intelligence 1.
Article 5 Requests for information and intelligence 1.
Article 6 Categories of persons regarding which information or intelligence may be exchanged 1.
Article 7 Communication channels 1.
Article 8 Spontaneous exchange of information and intelligence 1.
Article 9 Data protection 1.
Article 11 Reasons to withhold information or intelligence A competent law enforcement authority may refuse to provide information or intelligence only if there are factual reasons to assume that the provision of the information or intelligence would: (a) harm essential national security interests of the requested Member State or; (b) jeopardise the success of a current investigation or a criminal intelligence operation or; (c) be clearly disproportionate or irrelevant with regard to the purposes for which it has been requested.
TITLE III FINAL PROVISIONS Article 12 Implementation 1.
Article 13 Relation to other instruments 1.
Member States may conclude bilateral or multilateral agreements or arrangements after this Framework Decision has come into force in so far as such agreements or arrangements allow the objectives of this Framework Decision to be extended or enlarged and help to simplify or facilitate further the procedures for exchanging information falling within the scope of this Framework Decision. 4.
The agreements and arrangements referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3 may in no case affect relations with Member States which are not parties to them. 5.
Member States shall, within three months from the entry into force of this Framework Decision, notify the Council and the Commission of the existing agreements and arrangements referred to in paragraph 2 which they wish to continue applying. 6.
Done at For the Council The President -------------------------------------------------- [1] OJ L 176, 10.7.1999, p. 31.
