Notice of initiation of an anti-dumping proceeding concerning imports of silico-manganese originating in the People's Republic of China, Kazakhstan and Ukraine Notice of initiation of an anti-dumping proceeding concerning imports of silico-manganese originating in the People's Republic of China, Kazakhstan and Ukraine (2006/C 214/04) The Commission has received a complaint pursuant to Article 5 of Council Regulation (EC) No 384/96 on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the European Community ("the basic Regulation") [1], as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 2117/2005 [2], alleging that imports of silico-manganese, originating in the People's Republic of China, Kazakhstan and Ukraine ("the countries concerned"), are being dumped and are thereby causing material injury to the Community industry. 1.
Complaint The complaint was lodged on 24 July 2006 by the ComitĂŠ de Liaison des Industries de Ferro-Alliages (EUROALLIAGES) ("the complainant") on behalf of producers representing a major proportion, in this case more than 50 % of the total Community production of silico-manganese. 2.
Product The product allegedly being dumped is silico-manganese (including ferro-silico-manganese) originating in the People's Republic of China, Kazakhstan and Ukraine ("the product concerned"), normally declared within CN codes 72023000 and ex81110011.
Procedure Having determined, after consulting the Advisory Committee, that the complaint has been lodged by or on behalf of the Community industry and that there is sufficient evidence to justify the initiation of a proceeding, the Commission hereby initiates an investigation pursuant to Article 5 of the basic Regulation. 5.1.
Companies included in the samples must reply to a questionnaire within the time limit set in point 6(b)(iii) and must cooperate within the framework of the investigation.
If sufficient co-operation is not forthcoming, the Commission may base its findings, in accordance with Articles 17(4) and 18 of the basic Regulation, on the facts available.
It should be noted that any information submitted pursuant to Article 21 will only be taken into account if supported by factual evidence at the time of submission. 6.
These comments must reach the Commission within 10 days of the date of publication of this notice in the Official Journal of the European Union. (d) Specific time limit for submission of claims for market economy status and/or for individual treatment Duly substantiated claims for market economy status (as mentioned in point 5.1(e)) and/or for individual treatment pursuant to Article 9(5) of the basic Regulation, must reach the Commission within 15 days of the date of publication of this notice in the Official Journal of the European Union. 7.
Commission address for correspondence: European Commission Directorate General for Trade Directorate B Office : J-79 5/16 B-1049 Brussels Fax (32-2) 295 65 05. 8.
Non-cooperation In cases in which any interested party refuses access to or does not provide the necessary information within the time limits, or significantly impedes the investigation, provisional or final findings, affirmative or negative, may be made in accordance with Article 18 of the basic Regulation, on the basis of the facts available.
If an interested party does not cooperate or cooperates only partially and findings are therefore based on facts available in accordance with Article 18 of the basic Regulation, the result may be less favourable to that party than if it had cooperated. 9.
Schedule of the investigation The investigation will be concluded, according to Article 6(9) of the basic Regulation within 15 months of the date of the publication of this notice in the Official Journal of the European Union.
According to Article 7(1) of the basic Regulation, provisional measures may be imposed no later than 9 months from the publication of this notice in the Official Journal of the European Union. [1] OJ L 56, 6.3.1996, p. 1. [2] OJ L 340, 23.12.2005, p. 17. [3] Individual margins may be claimed pursuant to Article 17(3) of the basic Regulation for companies not included in the sample, article 9(5) of the basic Regulation concerning individual treatment in cases involving non market economy countries/economies in transition, and article 2(7)(b) of the basic Regulation for companies claiming market economy status.
It is protected pursuant to Article 4 of Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council regarding public access to European Parliament, Council and Commission documents (OJ L 145, 31.5.2001, p. 43).
It is a confidential document pursuant to Article 19 of the basic Regulation and Article 6 of the WTO Agreement on Implementation of Article VI of the GATT 1994 (Anti-dumping Agreement). --------------------------------------------------
