These objectives are reflected in the action plan jointly adopted by the Commission and the Council on 2 and 3 June 2005 with a view to carrying out the Hague Programme.
This proposal is a response to the expectations expressed at the Council meeting (Justice and Home Affairs) on 14 April 2005, following the publication in January 2005 of the White Paper on exchanges of information on convictions and the effect of such convictions in the European Union and the subsequent general discussion thereof. | General context Information on convictions is currently exchanged between Member States through systems set up by the European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters of 1959 (Council of Europe Convention, hereinafter the “1959 Convention”).
The result is that national courts often pass sentences on the sole basis of the past convictions featuring in their national register, with absolutely no knowledge of other convictions in other Member States. | Provisions in force in the field covered by the proposal On 13 October 2004 the Commission adopted its first proposal for a Council Decision on the exchange of information extracted from criminal records, which was designed to improve the systems of the 1959 Convention in the short term, chiefly by speeding up transmission times (adopted by the Council on 21 November 2005).
The Member State of the person’s nationality should therefore check with the convicting Member State to what extent it may transmit such information to the requesting Member State.
The same applies for requests from third countries under Article 13 of the 1959 Convention, with a view to ensuring that the Member State of the person’s nationality does not give them more information than to a Member State. | CONSULTATION OF INTERESTED PARTIES AND IMPACT ASSESSMENTS | Consultation of interested parties | Much preparatory consultation and expertise collection has been carried out in relation to these issues: 1) two studies on criminal records were carried out in 2001 and 2002 by the Institute of Advanced Legal Studies (ISLA) (Falcone Programme (2000/FAL/168)) and the Institute for International Research on Criminal Policy (IRCP) (Grotius Programme (2001/GRP/024)); 2) detailed questionnaires on how national criminal records work were sent to Member States in April 2004.
They replied to questionnaires and took part in expert meetings (e.g.
Its also lays down the framework for a computerised conviction-information exchange system to be built and developed, on the basis of a “standardised European format” which will allow such information to be exchanged in a uniform, electronic and easily machine-translatable form. | Legal basis The legal basis for this proposal is Article 31 of the Treaty on European Union, as amended by the Nice Treaty, which deals with joint action in the field of judicial cooperation in criminal matters, and Article 34(2)(b). | Subsidiarity principle The principle of subsidiarity applies as the proposal does not concern an area where the Community has exclusive competence. | The aim is to improve the exchange of information on convictions within the European Union, an activity which is currently governed by the 1959 Convention.
Any decision adopted pursuant to this procedure which may have budgetary implications will be covered by the “Fundamental Rights and Justice” Framework Programme. | ADDITIONAL INFORMATION | Simplification | The proposal simplifies the existing legislative framework by bringing in an initial batch of improvements to the exchange systems established by the Decision of 21 November 2005, which it repeals. | Repeal of existing legislation Adopting this proposal will mean some legislation must be repealed.
It replaces Article 22 of the 1959 Convention as regards relations between Member States and repeals the Decision of 21 November 2005, the relevant provisions of which are taken over. | Recasting The proposal involves recasting some existing legislation. | Detailed explanation of the proposal, by chapter or by article This section gives a brief overview of those main articles of the proposition which have not been taken over from the Decision of 21 November 2005 or been described above.
Article 2-Definitions The definitions of “criminal record” and “conviction” are identical to those given in the Proposal for a Framework Decision on taking account of convictions in the Member States of the European Union in the course of new criminal proceedings, adopted by the Commission on 17 March 2005 (COM (2005)91).
Article 4-Obligations of the convicting Member State See section 3 (particularly “subsidiarity” and “proportionality”).
Paragraph 5 takes over the provisions of Article 4 of the additional Protocol of 17 March 1978 to the 1959 Convention.
Article 14-Relation to other legal instruments This proposal supplements Article 13 of the 1959 Convention.
It does not replace the possibility available to judicial authorities of transmitting information concerning criminal records directly to each other under Article 6(1) of the Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters between the Member States of the European Union of 29 May 2000.
However, it replaces Article 22 of the 1959 Convention as regards relations between Member States and repeals the Decision of 21 November 2005, the relevant provisions of which are taken over. | 1. 2005/0267 (CNS) Proposal for a COUNCIL FRAMEWORK DECISION on the organisation and content of the exchange of information extracted from criminal records between Member States THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty on European Union, and in particular Articles 31 and 34(2)(b) thereof, Having regard to the proposal from the Commission[1], Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament[2], Whereas: 2.
On 29 November 2000 the Council, in accordance with the conclusions of the Tampere European Council of 15 and 16 October 1999, adopted a programme of measures to implement the principle of mutual recognition in criminal matters[3].
This Framework Decision contributes to achieving the goals provided for by Measure 3 of the programme, which calls for the establishment of a standard form like that drawn up for the Schengen bodies, translated into all the official Union languages, for criminal records requests. 4.
These objectives are reflected in the action plan jointly adopted by the Commission and the Council on 2 and 3 June 2005 with a view to carrying out the Hague Programme. 6.
This Framework Decision is a response to the wishes expressed at the Council meeting (Justice and Home Affairs) on 14 April 2005, following the publication of the White Paper on exchanges of information on convictions and the effect of such convictions in the European Union[6] and the subsequent general discussion thereof.
Information on convictions handed down in other Member States is currently governed by Articles 13 and 22 of the European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters of 1959[7]; these provisions are now, however, too slow for the requirements of judicial cooperation in an area such as the European Union. 8.
This Framework Decision replaces Article 22 of the Convention.
This Framework Decision on requests for information extracted from criminal records should not prejudge the possibility of judicial authorities’ transmitting directly information from criminal records pursuant to Article 6(1) of the Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters between the Member States of the European Union, set up by Council Decision of 29 May 2000[8]. 10.
On XXX the Council adopted a Framework Decision on taking account of convictions in the Member States of the European Union in the course of new criminal proceedings[9]. 11.
Under Council of Europe Recommendation No R (84) 10 on criminal records and rehabilitation of convicted persons, the main aim of establishment of criminal records is to inform the authorities responsible for the criminal justice system on the background of a person subject to legal proceedings with a view to adapting the decision to be taken to the individual situation.
This Framework Decision respects the principle of subsidiarity referred to in Article 2 of the Treaty on European Union and Article 5 of the Treaty establishing the European Community since the improvement of systems for the transmission of information on convictions between Member States cannot be carried out adequately by the Member States unilaterally and requires coordinated action in the European Union.
Article 2 Definitions For the purposes of this Framework Decision: a) “conviction” means any final decision of a criminal court or of an administrative authority whose decision can be appealed against before a court having jurisdiction in particular in criminal matters, establishing guilt of a criminal offence or an act punishable in accordance with national law as an offence against the law b) “criminal record” means the national register or registers recording convictions in accordance with national law.
Article 3 Central authority 16.
However, for the transmission of information under Article 4 and for replies to requests as referred to in Articles 6 and 7, Member States may designate one or more central authorities. 17.
Each Member State shall inform the General Secretariat of the Council and the Commission of the authority or authorities designated in accordance with paragraph 1.
Article 5 Obligations of the Member State of the person’s nationality 1.
The central authority of the Member State of the person’s nationality shall store all information transmitted under Article 4, in order to be able to retransmit it in accordance with Article 7. 2.
Article 6 Request for information on convictions 1.
Article 7 Reply to a request for conviction information 1.
When information extracted from the criminal record is requested under Article 6 from the central authority of the Member State of the person’s nationality for the purposes of criminal proceedings, this State shall transmit to the central authority of the requesting Member State the following information: a) national convictions b) any convictions handed down in other Member States which were transmitted after the implementation of this Framework Decision, in application of Article 4, and stored in accordance with Article 5(1) and (2) c) any convictions handed down in other Member States which were transmitted before the implementation of this Framework Decision d) any convictions handed down in third countries and subsequently transmitted to it. 2.
When information extracted from criminal records is requested under Article 6 from the central authority of the Member State of the person’s nationality for any other purpose than that of criminal proceedings, that State shall respond in accordance with national law for national convictions and convictions handed down in third countries and subsequently transmitted to it.
The central authority of the convicting Member State shall reply to the central authority of the person’s nationality early enough to enable the latter to meet the reply deadlines provided for in Article 8.
Information on national convictions, convictions pronounced by third countries and convictions pronounced in another Member State shall be transmitted simultaneously by the central authority of the Member State of the person’s nationality to the central authority of the requesting Member State. 3.
When a request for information extracted from the criminal record is submitted to the Member State of the person’s nationality by a third country under Article 13 of the European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters of 1959, the Member State of the person’s nationality shall respond in accordance with national law for national convictions and convictions pronounced by third countries and subsequently transmitted to it.
Before transmitting to a third country under Article 13 of the European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters of 1959 any convictions handed down in other Member States and subsequently transmitted to it, the Member State of the person’s nationality shall ascertain from the central authority of the convicting Member State whether and to what extent such information may be transmitted to requesting third country.
The central authority of the convicting Member State shall reply to the central authority of the Member State of the person’s nationality within a reasonable period of time.
Information on national convictions, convictions handed down in third countries and convictions handed down in another Member State shall be transmitted simultaneously by the Member State of the person’s nationality to the requesting third country. 4.
Article 8 Deadlines for replies 1.
Replies to the request referred to in Article 6(2) shall be transmitted within twenty working days from the date the request was received.
Article 9 Conditions for the use of personal data 1.
Personal data provided under Article 7(1) and (4) for the purposes of criminal proceedings may be used by the requesting Member State solely for the purposes of the particular proceedings they were requested for, in accordance with the annexed form. 2.
Personal data provided under Article 7(2) and (4) for any purposes other than that of criminal proceedings may be used by the requesting Member State, in accordance with its national law, solely for the purposes of the particular proceedings they were requested for and within the limits set out by the requested Member State in the relevant form. 3.
Notwithstanding paragraphs 1 and 2, personal data provided under Article 7(1), (2) and (4) may be used by the requesting Member State for preventing an immediate and serious threat to public security. 4.
Member States shall take the necessary measures to ensure that personal data transmitted to a third county under Article 7(3) are subject to the same usage restrictions as those applicable in Member States under Article 7(1), (2) and (3). 5.
Article 10 Languages For the purposes of transmission by the requesting to the requested Member State of the request referred to in Article 6(1), the annexed from shall be written in the official language, or one of the official languages of the latter.
Article 11 Format and other ways of organising and facilitation exchanges 1.
Until the time limit referred to in paragraph 6 of this Article has elapsed, central authorities of Member States who have not carried out the notification referred to in paragraph 5 of this Article shall transmit all requests, replies and other relevant information by any means capable of producing a written record under conditions allowing the receiving Member State to establish authenticity. 2.
Once the time limit referred to in paragraph 6 of this Article has elapsed, central authorities of Member States shall transmit information extracted from criminal records electronically using a standardised format which shall include the following: a) information on the convicted person (surname, first name, date of birth, place of birth, pseudonym or alias if applicable, gender, nationality, legal form and registered office for legal persons) b) information on the nature of the conviction (date and place, name and type of convicting authority) c) information on the facts giving rise to the conviction (date, place, type, legal status, applicable criminal law) d) information on the contents of the conviction (judgment, sentence, accessory penalties, security measures, subsequent decisions affecting enforcement of the sentence, disqualification, etc.). 3.
The Commission shall immediately inform the Committee referred to in Article 12. 6.
The technical alterations referred to in paragraph 5 shall be carried out within three years from the date the format and the ways in which information on convictions may be exchanged electronically are adopted. 7.
The measures necessary for the implementation of paragraphs 2 and 3 shall be adopted in accordance with the regulatory procedure referred to in Article 13.
The Committee shall adopt its rules of procedure on a proposal made by the Chair on the basis of standard rules of procedure which have been published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 3.
Article 13 Procedure 1.
Article 14 Relationship with other legal instruments 1.
In relations between the Member States, this Framework Decision supplements the provisions of Article 13 of the European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters of 20 April 1959, its additional Protocols of 17 March 1978[12] and 8 November 2001[13], the Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters between the Member States of the European Union of 29 May 2000[14] and its Protocol of 16 October 2001[15]. 2.
For the purposes of this Framework Decision, Member States shall waive the right to rely among themselves on their reservations to Article 13 of the European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters of 20 April 1959. 3.
Without prejudice to their application in relations between Member States and third countries, this Framework Decision replaces, with effect from XXXXXX, the provisions of Article 22 of the 1959 European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters, as supplemented by Article 4 of said Convention’s additional Protocol of 17 March 1978, in relations between Member States. 4.
This Framework Decision repeals the Decision of 21 November 2005 on the exchange of information extracted from the criminal record. 5.
Article 15 Implementation 1.
Member States shall adopt the measures necessary to comply with the provisions of this Framework Decision no later than XXXXXX. 2.
Article 16 Entry into force This Framework Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Otherwise, it should be indicated when known. | c) Purpose of request: Please tick the appropriate box 1) □ criminal proceedings | 2) □ request from a judicial authority outside the context of criminal proceedings □ request from a competent administrative authority 3) □ request from the interested party The purpose of the request should be entered in accordance with the Manual of Procedures when applicable.
NAME OF THE PROPOSAL: Proposal for a Council Framework Decision on the organisation and content of the exchange of information extracted from criminal records between Member States 19.
Added value of Community involvement and coherence of the proposal with other financial instruments and possible synergy Information on convictions is currently exchanged between Member States through systems set up by the European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters of 1959 (Council of Europe Convention, hereinafter “1959 Convention”).
Objectives, expected results and related indicators of the proposal in the context of the ABM framework The need to improve the quality of information exchanged on court records was prioritised in the European Council Declaration on Combating Terrorism of 25 and 26 March 2004 and was reiterated in the Hague Programme, adopted by the European Council on 4 and 5 November 2004.
These objectives are reflected in the action plan jointly adopted by the Commission and the Council on 2 and 3 June 2005 with a view to carrying out the Hague Programme.
They replied to questionnaires and took part in expert meetings (e.g.
Other administrative expenditure included in reference amount (XX 01 04/05 – Expenditure on administrative management) EUR million (to 3 decimal places) Budget line (No and title) | Year n | Year n+1 | Year n+2 | Year n+3 | Year n+4 | Year n+5 and later | TOTAL | 1. 1 Technical and administrative assistance (including related staff costs) | Executive agencies[28] | Other technical and administrative assistance | -intra muros | -extra muros | Total Technical and administrative assistance | 43.
