Notice of initiation of an anti-dumping proceeding concerning imports of recordable compact disks (CD-Rs) originating in the People's Republic of China, Hong Kong and Malaysia (2005/C 192/03) The Commission has received a complaint pursuant to Article 5 of Council Regulation (EC) No 384/96 on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the European Community ("the basic Regulation") [1], alleging that imports of recordable compact disks (CD-Rs), originating in the People's Republic of China, Hong Kong and Malaysia ("the countries concerned"), are being dumped and are thereby causing material injury to the Community industry. 1.
Complaint The complaint was lodged on 24 June 2005 by CECMA ("the complainant") on behalf of producers representing a major proportion, in this case more than 60 %, of the total Community production of CD-Rs. 2.
Procedure Having determined, after consulting the Advisory Committee, that the complaint has been lodged by or on behalf of the Community industry and that there is sufficient evidence to justify the initiation of a proceeding, the Commission hereby initiates an investigation pursuant to Article 5 of the basic Regulation. 5.1.
It should be noted that any information submitted pursuant to Article 21 will only be taken into account if supported by factual evidence at the time of submission. 6.
Commission address for correspondence: European Commission Directorate General for Trade Directorate B Office: J-79 5/16 B-1049 Brussels Fax (32-2) 295 65 05. 8.
Non-cooperation In cases in which any interested party refuses access to or does not provide the necessary information within the time limits, or significantly impedes the investigation, provisional or final findings, affirmative or negative, may be made in accordance with Article 18 of the basic Regulation, on the basis of the facts available.
If an interested party does not cooperate or cooperates only partially and findings are therefore based on facts available in accordance with Article 18 of the basic Regulation, the result may be less favourable to that party than if it had cooperated. 9.
