The stagnation which has afflicted some European economies has resulted in economic growth and job creation becoming the top priority, with environmental protection taking second place on the Roman principle of "primum vivere, deinde philosophare".
Can the environment be an economic opportunity? 2.1 To answer this question we first need to ask ourselves (i) whether the development of certain economic sectors is dependent on the existence of a high-quality environment in which both nature and cultural heritage are conserved, and (ii) whether environmental technologies are capable of making a genuine contribution to the objectives for social and economic development set by the Lisbon Strategy.
However, particularly in emerging economies, the pace of economic growth is such that the pressure on the environment and on natural resources is constantly increasing, in spite of technological progress. 4.
For example, an estimated 300000 jobs have been created by the waste management industry in France. 4.6 The concern to save natural resources has led to technical innovations tending to favour thrifty management and reduce costs.
The benefits are both economic and environmental. 4.7 As already mentioned, the tourism and leisure sectors are heavily dependent on the quality of both the natural and built environment.
However, the petrol-electric hybrid car, the Toyota Prius, is a good example of changing consumer attitudes, where output has recently had to be increased by 50 % to meet worldwide demand.
Diesel engines produce 25 % less CO2 than petrol engines, but the particles which they emit are a health hazard.
In practice, whereas 90 % of German customers would opt for a particle filter, the equivalent figure for the rest of Europe would be a mere 5 %!
Practice shows that in a highly competitive market, environmental technologies are adopted gradually and continuously.
An issue which affects everybody 6.1 It is not only up to environmental specialists to turn protection of the environment into a real economic opportunity.
Brussels, 28 October 2004.
The problems appear to arise from underestimation and mismanagement of tools, procedures and implementation strategies.
