The single most important development in this respect is the accession of the ten new Member States to the European Union on 1 May 2004.
It should also be noted that in addition to the newly acceded Member States, soon after the adoption of the Code in 1998 Bulgaria, Romania, Iceland and Norway declared that they shared its objectives and aligned themselves to the criteria and principles contained in the Code, which would guide them in their national export policies.
This will contribute to the further convergence of the policies and procedures on arms exports applicable in the 25 Member States.
User's Guide As of 1 January 2004 the User's Guide, the first version of which was adopted in 2003 and is available on the "Security Related Export Controls" webpage in the Common Foreign and Security Policy section of the Council internet site (http://ue.eu.int), became fully applicable.
Best practices for interpretation of criteria Best practices for the interpretation of criterion 8 of the Code of Conduct, for inclusion in the User's Guide, are currently being discussed by Member States. 5.
Dialogue with the European Parliament On 1 September 2004, at the invitation of the European Parliament Sub-committee on Security and Defence, the Netherlands Presidency had an exchange of views on Fifth Annual Report on the European Code of Conduct on Arms Exports and related arms exports issues with members of the Sub-committee.
The aforementioned exchange of denials between the EU and Norway will take place as of 18 November 2004. 5.
Full implementation of the User's Guide As stated in Chapter I of this report, the User's Guide, the first version of which was adopted in 2003, became fully applicable as from 1 January 2004.
Development of the dialogue with the European Parliament As stated in Chapter I of this report, on 1 September the Netherlands Presidency, at the invitation of the European Parliament Sub-committee on Security and Defence had an exchange of views on Fifth Annual Report on the European Code of Conduct of Arms Exports and related arms exports issues with members of the Sub-committee.
