Opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee on the %lsquo%Communication from the Commission: Science and technology, the key to Europe's future %mdash% Guidelines for future European Union policy to support research%rsquo%(COM(2004) 353 final) Opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee on the "Communication from the Commission: Science and technology, the key to Europe's future — Guidelines for future European Union policy to support research" (COM(2004) 353 final) (2005/C 157/20) On 17 June 2004, the European Commission decided to consult the European Economic and Social Committee, under Article 262 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, on the abovementioned communication.
At its 413th plenary session of 15 and 16 December 2004 (meeting of 15 December) the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 83 votes to three with one abstention: 1.
Introduction 1.1 Europe's economic, social and cultural future.
The Committee would draw particular attention to the Sixth Framework Programme, the EURATOM programme and related tools to promote research, as well as to the 3 % objective [2] and many others initiatives covering fields such as research as a profession, the importance of basic research, energy supply, space research, biotechnology, and the interplay between science, individuals and society. 1.5 Committee opinions to date.
The communication stresses the leverage effect of public spending on private research investment, and the need to make research more attractive as a profession so as to be able to compete globally for the best brains. 2.3 That is also the reason why the EU needs to substantially step up and extend support for research — a move that must be accompanied by a corresponding increase (and under no circumstances a scaling-down) of Member States' own efforts on this front. 2.4 Drawing, among other things, on the experience gained in formulating and implementing the earlier framework programmes, the Commission lays down six major objectives: - creating European centres of excellence [4] through collaboration between laboratories; - launching European technological initiatives; - stimulating competition in basic research at European level; - making Europe attractive to the best researchers; - developing research infrastructures of European interest; and - improving the coordination of national research programmes. 2.5 Other points and proposals made in the Commission communication include: - realising the potential of a Europe of 25; - taking full advantage of complementarity with the Structural Funds; - identifying topics of major European interest; - bringing in two new key areas: space and security; - using the most effective means of implementation; and - improving the operation of the framework programme. 3.
In order to meet the 3 % objective, however, this doubling of resources must also be accompanied by a corresponding increase in national R%amp%D budgets and in R%amp%D spending by industry.
The Committee recommends exploring the reasons for this unfortunate trend so that steps can be taken to ensure that industrial R%amp%D in Europe also moves closer to the 3 % objective. 3.2.3 The Committee's call.
However, the R%amp%D investments proposed by the Commission are not only modest, but, given the international competitive environment, long overdue.
Other extraneous or speculative influences simply result in more red tape and mismanagement, with adverse consequences not only for the Lisbon Objectives but also for European research as a whole. 4.3 Realising the potential of a Europe of 25.
Through its consultative role, the European Strategy Forum for Research infrastructures (ESFRI) is a key partner in this process.
Depending on what resources are available and whether a case can be made for projects at Community level, such measures should not be exclusively restricted to funding large apparatus, given that medium-sized complex research infrastructures are also needed in many research fields and can serve the research objectives of several Member States at the same time. 4.5 Reinforcing thematic priorities and enhancing mobility.
In order to clarify the recommendations which have already been put forward by the Committee, the following principles should be applied: - The number of instruments should be kept within reasonable limits. - Instruments need to be well defined, with clear objectives. - The instruments should be as simple to manage as possible. - They should concentrate on direct support of R%amp%D activities and the researchers involved in them. - The choice of instrument should not be bound by particular aspects of the thematic priorities; rather, applicants should be able to select one or more instruments for a particular plan or project [18].
The conditions for participation by SMEs in thematic priorities should therefore be simplified and made more flexible, for example through flexible classification and selection of themes and instruments (CRAFT, Collective Research, EUREKA).
This, then, is an area where coordination between industrial policy and research policy is needed, in order to stimulate European business activity and to give it a better chance of success. 4.8.3 The SBIR Programme in the USA.
The Committee has called on the Commission to apply the method of open coordination on several previous occasions; at the same time, it maintains the view that this can only happen on a voluntary basis, with the consent of Member States. 4.10 Self-organisation and self-coordination.
The Committee therefore supports the objectives and measures put forward in the Commission's Communication. 5.2 This particularly applies to the 3 % objective, as well as the twofold increase in the EU budget for R%amp%D (through the Framework Programme and EURATOM) which has been proposed as a means of achieving it.
For many other key arguments, recommendations and criticisms, the Committee refers to the detailed comments in Sections 3 and 4.
Brussels, 15 December 2004.
