The basic Regulation does not foresee a general impact assessment but contains an exhaustive list of conditions that have to be assessed. | LEGAL ELEMENTS OF THE PROPOSAL | Summary of the proposed action On 29 April 2004, the Commission initiated an anti-dumping proceeding with regard to imports of hand pallet trucks and their essential parts originating in the People’s Republic of China.
A provisional anti-dumping duty was imposed on 28 January 2005, ranging from 29,7% to 49,6%.
the chassis and hydraulics, falling within CN codes ex 8427 90 00 and ex 8431 20 00, originating in the People’s Republic of China (‘PRC’). (2) It is recalled that the investigation of dumping and injury covered the period from 1 April 2003 to 31 March 2004 (‘IP’).
After the imposition of provisional measures, an on-spot verification visit was carried out at the premises of the importers Jungheinrich AG in Germany and TVH Handling Equipment N.V.
In consequence, it was considered appropriate to determine the margin of dumping of the product concerned on the basis of hand pallet trucks, for which representative and reliable data were available. (11) As regards the argument that the inclusion of essential parts could only be pursued via the provisions of Article 13 of the basic Regulation so as to avoid undue difficulties for assemblers of hand pallet trucks in the Community, it is noted that Article 13 is irrelevant when defining the product concerned.
Furthermore, the other company was found in breach of IAS 21 (recording at initial recognition of foreign currency transactions) and IAS 32 (disclosure and presentation of financial instruments).
For the rest, the findings set out in recitals (19) to (34) of the provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed. (19) It is noted that following the imposition of provisional measures, a non-cooperating Chinese exporting producer and its related importer in the Community submitted certain comments on the provisional findings and claimed MET or, in the event it did not receive MET, individual treatment.
Normal value 3.1.
The argument, therefore, cannot be accepted. (26) No other arguments were raised concerning the determination of the normal value in the analogue country and thus the findings set out in recitals (38) to (48) of the provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed. 3.2.
Export price (36) Following the imposition of provisional measures, no comments were submitted concerning the determination of the export price for sales made directly to independent customers in the Community.
Therefore, the findings set out in recital (49) of the provisional Regulation concerning the establishment of the export price pursuant to Article 2(8) of the basic Regulation are hereby confirmed. (37) For two exporting producers, the export price has been provisionally constructed for their sales to importers with which they were found to have a compensatory arrangement pursuant to Article 2(9) of the basic Regulation (see recital (49) of the provisional Regulation). (38) One of the exporting producers and its importer, for which certain export prices were constructed, argued that the relationship between them did not warrant construction of export prices and that the actual prices from the exporting producer to the importer should form the basis for establishing export prices.
In these circumstances, these sales were not taken into account in the definitive calculation of export prices. (39) In fact, this exporting producer had significant direct sales to independent customers in the Community which have been used to establish the export price (see recital (36) above). (40) The other exporting producer for which certain export prices were constructed and the importer concerned submitted comments on the provisional findings arguing that there was no arrangement or agreement between them within the meaning of an association or a compensatory arrangement as set out in Article 2(9) of the basic Regulation and Article 2.3 of the WTO ADA.
During the on-spot verification visit at the premises of the exporting producer, the investigators were informed that the reason why export prices between the parties are much higher than normal is that a special arrangement or agreement exists between the exporting producer and the importer.
The exporting producer denied the existence of a written agreement, but explained that the importer concerned was prepared to pay such higher prices in order to obtain and maintain the exclusivity of sales of certain products of the exporting producer for certain markets.
Comparison (44) Following the imposition of provisional measures, one exporting producer requested an adjustment on certain export prices for differences in levels of trade between direct export sales to the Community and sales for export to the Community via traders in the PRC, in accordance with Article 2(10)(d)(i) of the basic Regulation.
Dumping margins (45) In calculating the dumping margin for all other exporting producers (see recital (53) of the provisional Regulation), the exporting producer which was granted MET was no longer taken into account.
However, for the exporting producer which was granted MET, the dumping margin was established by comparing the weighted average normal value for each type exported to the Community as determined in recitals (28) to (35) above to the weighted average export price of the corresponding type, in accordance with Article 2(11) of the basic Regulation.
The dumping margins finally determined following the amendments set out above, expressed as a percentage of the net, free-at-Community-frontier price, duty unpaid, are: Ningbo Liftstar Material Transport Equipment Factory | 32,2% | Ningbo Ruyi Joint Stock Co.
Ltd | 7,6% | All other companies | 46,7% | E.
COMMUNITY INDUSTRY 1.
Community production (46) In the absence of any comments, the provisional findings concerning the Community production, as set out in recitals (55) and (56) of the provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed. 2.
Community consumption (48) In the absence of any comments, the provisional findings concerning the Community consumption, as set out in recitals (58) and (59) of the provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed. 2.
CAUSATION OF INJURY 1.
Effect of the dumped imports (62) One exporting producer and certain importers alleged that the use of Eurostat import data are inappropriate in determining the volume and market share of imports of the product concerned since there is no separate CN code for it.
It is noted that no evidence has been submitted indicating that any significant quantities of other products may have been classified under the CN code 8427 90 00, which covers the complete product and which was used to determine the dumped imports volume.
The effects of other factors (a) The export performance of the Community industry (64) Following the imposition of provisional measures, one exporting producer argued that the export performance of the Community industry had been wrongly evaluated.
It is noted that this claim has already been examined and explicitly addressed in recitals (101) to (103) of the provisional Regulation, which are hereby confirmed. 4.
COMMUNITY INTEREST 1.
The claim, therefore, should be rejected. (74) One exporting producer and certain importers argued that the hand pallet activities of the Community industry in particular in terms of employment is negligible in relation to their total activities and, therefore, their interest in such measures is limited when compared to that of other operators in the market.
Therefore, this argument cannot be accepted. (75) In the absence of any other comment, the provisional findings concerning the interest of the Community industry, as set out in recitals (107) to (109) of the provisional Regulation, are hereby confirmed. 3.
In the absence of any new comments, the provisional finding concerning the interest of Community suppliers, as set out in recital (110) of the provisional Regulation, is hereby confirmed. 4.
Since this claim has not been supported by any evidence, it should be rejected. (79) In the absence of any other comment, the provisional findings concerning the interest of Community users, as set out in recitals (115) and (116) of the provisional Regulation, are hereby confirmed. 6.
DEFINITIVE ANTI-DUMPING MEASURES 1.
Form and level of the duty (83) In the light of the foregoing and in accordance with Article 9(4) of the basic Regulation, a definitive anti-dumping duty should be imposed at the level of the dumping margins found, since for all the exporting producers concerned the injury elimination level was found to be higher than the dumping margins. (84) On the basis of the above, the definitive duty rates are as follows: Company | Duty rate | Ningbo Liftstar Material Transport Equipment Factory | 32,2% | Ningbo Ruyi Joint Stock Co.
Undertakings (88) Subsequent to the imposition of provisional anti-dumping measures, two exporting producers expressed their willingness to offer undertakings in accordance with Article 8 of the basic Regulation.
The rate of the definitive anti-dumping duty applicable to the net, free-at-Community frontier price, before duty, shall be as follows: The People's Republic of China | Rate of duty (%) | TARIC additional code | Ningbo Liftstar Material Transport Equipment Factory, Zhouyi Village, Zhanqi Town, Yin Zhou District, Ningbo City, Zhejiang Province, 315144, PRC | 32,2 | A600 | Ningbo Ruyi Joint Stock Co.
Ltd, 656 North Taoyuan Road, Ninghai, Zhejiang Province, 315600, PRC | 28,5 | A601 | Ningbo Tailong Machinery Co.
Ltd, Economic Developing Zone, Ninghai, Ningbo City, Zhejiang Province, 315600, PRC | 39,9 | A602 | Zhejiang Noblelift Equipment Joint Stock Co.
Ltd, 58, Jing Yi Road, Economy Development Zone, Changxin, Zhejiang Province, 313100, PRC | 7,6 | A603 | All other companies | 46,7 | A999 | 3.
Article 2 Amounts secured by way of the provisional anti-dumping duty pursuant to Commission Regulation No 128/2005 on imports of hand pallet trucks and their essential parts falling within CN codes ex 8427 90 00 and ex 8431 20 00 (TARIC codes 8427 90 00 10 and 8431 20 00 10) originating in the People’s Republic of China shall be definitively collected, in accordance with the rules set out below.
Article 3 This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Done at Brussels, For the Council The President [1] OJ L 56, 6.3.1996, p.1.
Regulation as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 461/2004 (OJ L 77, 13.3.2004, p.12). [2] OJ L 25, 28.1.2005, p.16. [3] European Commission, Directorate General for Trade, Directorate B, J-79 5/17, Rue de la Loi/Wetstraat 200, B-1049 Brussels.
