Communication from the Commission - Guidance on the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services {SEC(2006) 439} /* COM/2006/0159 final */ [pic] | COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES | Brussels, 4.4.2006 COM(2006) 159 final COMMUNICATION FROM THE COMMISSION Guidance on the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services {SEC(2006) 439} COMMUNICATION FROM THE COMMISSION Guidance on the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services 1.
PURPOSE OF THIS COMMUNICATION Article 49 of the EC Treaty (hereinafter known as ‘EC’) establishes the principle that Member States should ensure the freedom to provide services within the Community.
Under the case law, the free provision of services, a fundamental principle of the Treaty, may only be restricted by rules justified on one of the grounds listed in Article 46 EC and by overriding reasons based on the general interest, in accordance with the principles of non-discrimination and proportionality.
Member States have a legal obligation to adopt the rules necessary to comply with the Directive, to take the appropriate measures in the event of failure to comply with those rules and to ensure that workers and/or their representatives have appropriate measures available to enforce the obligations defined in the Directive, as well as to make provision for cooperation between the public authorities.
The Commission undertook to draw up guidelines to clarify the prevailing Community law on the administrative procedures dealt with in Articles 24 and 25.
This Communication tells the Member States how to observe the Community acquis as interpreted by the European Court of Justice with reference to Article 49 EC and how to achieve the results required by the Directive in a more effective manner.
However, the Commission would like to point out that, when performing inspections as part of the implementation of the Directive, Member States must abide by Article 49 EC and refrain from creating or upholding unjustified and disproportionate restrictions to the free provision of services within the Community.
General application measures Of the measures implemented by certain Member States, the following urgently require clarification on the basis of the case law of the Court of Justice based on Article 49 EC[4]: - the requirement to have a representative on the territory of the host Member State; - the requirement to obtain authorisation from the competent authorities of the host Member State or to be registered with them, or any other equivalent obligation; - the requirement to make a declaration; - the requirement to keep and maintain social documents on the territory of the host country and/or under the conditions which apply in its territory.
a) The requirement to have a representative established on the territory of the host Member State The Court[5] described the requirement to have a subsidiary on the national territory as constituting "the very negation of the free provision of services" .
An obligation on the service provider to appoint a representative domiciled in a particular Member State in order to offer services there would appear to be incompatible with Article 49 EC, being similar to the requirement to elect domicile with an approved agent, which has already been declared unlawful by the Court[6].
The appointment of a person from among the posted workers, for example a foreman, to act as the link between the foreign company the labour inspectorate, should suffice. | b) The requirement to obtain authorisation from the competent authorities of the host Member State or to be registered with them, or any other equivalent obligation According to the established case law of the Court of Justice, national rules which stipulate that the provision of services on national territory by a company established in another Member State is subject, as a general rule and for all activities, to obtaining an administrative authorisation, constitute a restriction of the free provision of services within the meaning of Article 49 EC (see, in particular, the Vander Elst judgment[8]).
The declaration could mention that posted workers from third countries are in a lawful situation in the country in which the service provider is established, including with regard to the visa requirements, and legally employed in that country. | d) The requirement to keep and maintain social documents on the territory of the host country and/or under the conditions which apply in its territory The Court of Justice has expressed its opinion on the obligation to keep and store social security documents on posted workers in the host Member State.
In its judgment in the case concerning Arblade et al. [12], the Court pointed out that the effective protection of workers, particularly as regards health and safety matters and working hours, could require that certain documents be kept in an accessible and clearly identified place in the territory of the host Member State, so that they were available to the authorities of that State responsible for carrying out checks, “particularly where there exists no organised system for cooperation or exchanges of information between Member States as provided for in Article 4 of Directive 96/71/EC” .
In order that the authorities in the host Member State can monitor conditions of employment in accordance with the Directive, they are allowed to require the service provider to produce documents which are considered necessary for carrying out these checks within a reasonable period of time.
However, the Court of Justice recognised in the cases concerning Arblade et al. [16] that "the items of information respectively required by the rules of the Member State of establishment and by those of the host Member State (…) may differ to such an extent that the monitoring required under the rules of the host Member State cannot be carried out on the basis of documents kept in accordance with the rules of the Member State of establishment".
Conclusion: On the basis of the aforementioned case law, it must be concluded that, in order to be able to monitor compliance with the conditions of employment laid down in the Directive, the host Member State must be able to demand, in accordance with the principle of proportionality, that documents be kept in the workplace which are, by their nature, created there, such as time sheets or documents on conditions of health and safety in the workplace.
Measures which apply to posted workers who are nationals of third countries In the existing case law on the freedom to provide services in accordance with Article 49 EC (see, for example, the judgments in the Vander Elst [17] and Commission v Luxembourg cases[18]), the Court took the view that workers who were regularly and habitually employed by a service provider established in a Member State (country of origin) could be posted to another Member State (host country) without being subject in the latter State to administrative formalities, such as the obligation to obtain a work permit.
In the case Commission v Germany [19], the Court held that German legislation ran counter to Article 49 EC by requiring nationals of third countries posted to Germany by a company established in another Member State to have been employed by that company for at least a year in order to be eligible for a residence visa.
Conclusion: On the basis of existing case law, it must be concluded that the host Member State may not impose administrative formalities or additional conditions on posted workers from third countries when they are lawfully employed by a service provider established in another Member State, without prejudice to the right of the host Member State to check that these conditions are complied with in the Member State where the service provider is established. | 3.
In order to fulfil their obligations, Member States are asked to redouble their efforts to enhance, and improve access to, the information on the terms and conditions of employment that must be applied by service providers, and to ensure that their liaison offices are in a position to carry out their tasks effectively.
In order to comply with Article 4 of the Directive, Member States have to ensure that liaison offices and monitoring authorities are organised and equipped in such a way as to function effectively and to be able to reply promptly to requests.
The Commission will continue to support the Member States in this area, especially by making more appropriate electronic systems available, and will monitor their progress closely. | 4.
In case of failure to comply with the obligations under the Directive, the Member States are obliged under Article 5 of the Directive to take appropriate measures.
The Court held that Article 5 of the Directive, interpreted in the light of Article 49 EC, did not preclude the use of such a system as an appropriate measure in the event of failure to comply with the Directive.
The Commission undertakes to work with the Member States in order to improve transnational cooperation of labour inspectorates in the subject areas covered by the Directive on the posting of workers. | 5.
CONCLUSIONS There is an urgent need to clarify the control measures which Member States can use, in the light of Article 49 EC as interpreted by the Court's judgments, and to improve access to information and administrative cooperation.
