Opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee on EU-China relations: role of civil society Opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee on EU-China relations: role of civil society (2006/C 110/12) By letter dated 7 February 2005, the UK Presidency requested the European Economic and Social Committee, under Article 262 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, to draw up an opinion on the EU-China relations: role of civil society.
At its 425th plenary session, held on 15 and 16 March 2006 (meeting of 15 March), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 93 votes to two with three abstentions. 1.
Its contacts with civil society outside the EU, in developed as well as developing countries, confirm this conviction.
In such cases, respect for the standards in law as well as in practice is a responsibility shared by the international community. 2.
The Committee considers that employer's federations and trade unions are an important part of organised civil society, although they are not NGOs in the strict sense of the term. 2.1.1.3 Chinese NGOs are divided into "social organisations", which are membership organisations, and "private non-enterprise units", which are non-membership, non-profit social service organisations, such as private schools and hospitals. 2.1.1.4 There are eight big national social organisations which are often referred to more specifically as "people's organisations" or "mass organisations".
For example, if there is already an association of disabled people in Beijing, then no new association of this kind will be allowed to register in Beijing. 2.1.1.7 As a result of these rules, many grassroots NGOs have been unable to register, either because they fail to find government agencies that are willing to act as their professional management units, or because other NGOs with similar missions have already been registered in the geographical area where they intend to base their operations.
In order to exist legally, some NGOs have registered with Industry and Commerce Bureaux as businesses instead, even though they engage in public-benefit activities and are non-profitmaking. 2.1.1.8 Some NGOs also choose not to register at all.
After more than two decades of market reform, the Chinese government has reduced its direct control over economic and social activities, however, it still holds considerable sway in these spheres.
Foreign NGOs, but also the European Commission, frequently cooperate with them and support their research activities. 2.1.1.18 Hong Kong continues to have a thriving NGO community active in providing services as well as in advocacy.
In both areas it is maintaining contacts with NGOs in neighbouring areas of mainland China. 2.2 The present role of civil society in EU-China relations 2.2.1 Both the EU and China have declared that they wish to promote interactions between their respective civil society organisations.
In particular China regularly violates international standards the ILO Conventions 87 and 98 on Freedom of Association and on Collective Bargaining. 2.2.8 The Chinese government claims that there is comprehensive legislation covering workers and trades union rights, however there is a serious gap between legislation and prevailing practice.
A Committee of the Chinese People's Congress has studied the situation in 200 enterprises and concluded that in 80 % of these companies workers rights as laid down in the legislation are seriously violated.
The problems are most acute in light industry, in building and construction and in the mining sectors. 2.2.9 In the Committee's view a full discussion of the role of civil society in EU-China relations must include a discussion of these difficulties.
The basis of assessments made by this Committee is the extensive case law on freedom of association and collective bargaining, developed over several decades and universally considered to be the result of objective, impartial and independent legal analysis. 2.2.11 China has been criticised repeatedly during the past few years, sometimes strongly, for violations of the rights laid in Conventions 87 and 98.
The major point of discrepancy between China's trade union legislation and Convention 87 is the trade union monopoly granted to the All China Federation of Trade Unions (ACFTU).
Nothing in these regulations reflects key components of ILO Convention 98 on the Right to Bargain Collectively, like the promotion of collective bargaining by the government and the principle that bargaining parties must not interfere in each others' internal affairs. 2.2.14 As regards the application of the right to organise, in practice, no independent trade unions are allowed in China, and all efforts to set them up are severely repressed.
The People's Congress Committee report, referred to earlier, has noted with regard to the application in practice of the law of 1995 on collective contracts that in 80 % of companies in the private sector contracts are not in place as demanded by the law.
According to official figures, 2004 saw some 74000 major workers' protests, involving more than 3.7 million people.
In 2003, the government counted 58000 actions.
There is an interest in supporting activities in China with respect to making workers aware of their rights, training them in areas like occupational health and safety, and providing them with legal assistance in court.
Eventually positive development in any segment of civil society could have a ripple effect on other segments. 3.8 Against the background of possible reduction in the EU's development assistance to China, both Chinese NGO leaders and representatives of foreign NGOs in China argue that the EU should at least maintain its current level of financial support to civil society organisations in China.
The EU can show the Chinese government and NGOs how civil society organisations in Europe perform advocacy functions, monitor government performance and provide input into public policy so that China can take some positive lessons from the European experience. 3.11 Despite various restrictions on press freedom, the Chinese media have played a crucial role in fostering civil society growth in recent years.
It is recommended that the EU explores ways of supporting a continued active role of the media in China; including possible exchange visits by journalists between the EU and China. 3.12 The EESC recognises that civil society in Hong Kong continues to play an indispensable role in defending democracy and human rights in Hong Kong and serving as an important source of inspiration and support for civil society in mainland China.
It is recommended that contacts and cooperation with civil society in Hong Kong should be maintained. 3.13 It is recommended that the EESC should, and other relevant European civil society organisations, monitor and encourage the Commission to follow up as appropriate, violations of fundamental rights with the European Parliament, and with the CESC. 3.14 The discussion of the right to organise and the right to collective bargaining should be central to the Committee's work with the CESC on human rights' issues.
The Committee will try to use its own contacts with the CESC similarly. 3.15 The EESC will explore the role corporate social responsibility and international Codes of Conduct for Multinational Enterprises (in particular the OECD Guidelines) can play in the contribution of foreign companies to the development of a system of industrial relations in China.
Brussels, 15 March 2006.
The President of the European Economic and Social Committee Anne-Marie Sigmund --------------------------------------------------
