Opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee on the Communication from the Commission on the Social Agenda (COM(2005) 33 final) Opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee on the Communication from the Commission on the Social Agenda (COM(2005) 33 final) (2005/C 294/04) On 9 February 2005, the European Commission decided to consult the European Economic and Social Committee, under Article 262 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, on the "Communication from the Commission on the Social Agenda".
At its 419th plenary session, held on 13 and 14 July 2005 (meeting of 13 July 2005), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 60 votes to one, with three abstentions. 1.
There needs to be a balanced relationship between economic policy, employment policy, social policy and environmental policy in order to safeguard the European social model on an ongoing basis. 1.2 At its summit meeting held on 22/ 23 March 2005 to give fresh impetus to the Lisbon Strategy, the European Council noted that priority should be given to promoting growth and employment and drew attention to the decisive importance of macro policy in that context [1].
The Social Agenda "will help to achieve the Lisbon Strategy objectives by reinforcing the European social model based on the quest for full employment and greater social cohesion" [3]. 1.3 "The European social model is based on good economic performance, a high level of social protection and education and social dialogue" [4].
These common features include: - sustainable social security systems, based on the principle of solidarity, designed to afford protection against the major risks encountered in the life of the individual; - working conditions, set out in law or collective agreements, for protecting workers and promoting employment; - the granting of involvement and participation rights to workers and organisations representing their interests; - industrial relations systems and arrangements for autonomous social dialogue between the social partners; - general public interest services.
The special contribution made by social policy comprises: the European Employment Strategy (EES); coordination measures taken with a view to promoting social integration and reforming social security schemes; and the upward alignment of living and working conditions through the establishment of social standards of an adequate minimum level. 1.4 With a view to achieving the Lisbon objectives, the role of social policy, as a special field of action at EU level, needs to be strengthened by pursuing a proactive policy designed to: - avoid unemployment and promote the reinsertion into the labour market of particularly disadvantaged groups; - combat poverty and social exclusion, paying particular attention to new risks of poverty, involving, for example, the "working poor"; - combat all forms of discrimination and to bring about equal opportunities for women; - step up the exchange of experience on social security reform strategies with the aim of squaring the maintenance of the social function of these measures with the provision of lasting safeguards in respect of basic funding; - enforce social standards of an adequate minimum level for protecting workers and safeguarding their rights in respect of involvement and participation and rights in respect of worker representation in enterprises.
The new Social Agenda should, in the EESC's view, take greater account of the findings and proposals of the High Level Group [5]. 2.
Implementation of the Social Agenda should be based on the following principles: - positive interplay between economic, social and employment policies; - promoting equality as regards employment, social policy and industrial relations in order to improve human and social capital; - modernising systems of social protection by bringing them into line with current requirements of our societies on the basis of solidarity and by strengthening their role as a productive factor; - taking account of the cost of the lack of social policy [6]. 2.2 On the basis of the abovementioned principles, the Commission proposes that a strategic approach be pursued, geared to two elements: - strengthening citizens' confidence in social change by adopting an intergenerational approach and partnerships for change and by exploiting the opportunities provided by globalisation; - setting priorities, on the basis of the Commission's strategic objectives for the period 2005-2009, in the following policy fields: promoting employment, tackling structural change, creating a more cohesive society and promoting equal opportunities. 3.
The credibility of the EU in this context will only be assured if it maintains and develops the European social model, even when underlying economic conditions have changed, and also on condition that it defends, in a convincing way, the linkage between economic and social progress.
With regard to the reorientation of the employment guidelines, the EESC underlines the need to give greater priority to the quality of employment and the need, in this context, to avoid giving rise to "working poor". 4.1.2 The only role for the European Social Fund (ESF) in support of the EES mentioned by the Commission in its communication is in connection with the improved implementation of reforms, on the one hand, and a planned communication strategy, on the other hand.
In line with the provisions of the Treaty, the aim of the review of the Directives should be to "promote improved working conditions and an improved standard of living for workers, so as to make possible their harmonisation while the improvement is being maintained" (Article 136 of the TEC).
This social dialogue has a special role to play in view of its legitimising function, the representativeness of the process and the fact that, as part of the social dialogue, binding agreements may be concluded at EU level, as was pointed out by the social partners in the joint declaration which they issued on the occasion of the Laeken Summit [13].
The EESC supports the objective set out by the Commission of promoting the social dialogue at enterprise and sectoral level, whilst taking greater account than has hitherto been the case of the fact that enterprises operate on a cross-frontier basis, with the result that voluntary agreements accordingly assume a cross-border importance.
A more cohesive society: equal opportunities for all 5.1 In this second of its priority areas, the Commission addresses the issues of: stepping-up the exchange of experience on the reform of social security schemes; policies for combating poverty and social exclusion and promoting non-discrimination; and the role of social services. 5.2 The Commission reiterates its proposal that coordination be rationalised and simplified in the fields of social inclusion, pensions and health.
Approximately 15 % of the overall population of the EU can be classified as "poor"; in several Member States this proportion is over 20 %.
The EESC expresses its support for the planned measures in respect of equal treatment for men and women and, in particular, the establishment of a European Gender Institute and the new edition of the Commission's Action Plan on equal opportunity for people with disabilities. 5.5 Also in 2005, the Commission intends to put forward a communication defining social services of general interest.
The EESC therefore believes that social services and, in particular, health services, have to be treated in a fundamentally different way than services which are purely market services. 5.6 The EESC deplores the fact that the European Commission fails to address the importance for employment and social cohesion of non-profit social services.
Conclusions 6.1 The EESC welcomes the European Commission's Communication on the Social Agenda; this Communication does, in the EESC's point of view, help to underline the importance of social policy to the achievement of the Lisbon objectives.
Whilst, in the previous Social Agenda, the European Commission was still guided by a belief in the role of social policy as a productive factor, this is no longer explicitly the case in the new proposal.
The social policy action programme should, accordingly, (a) set out proposals for the revision of existing Directives and put forward proposals for new Directives and (b) embrace the planned debates and coordination measures designed to promote the further development of European social policy.
Brussels, 13 July 2005.
