The final payments for these programmes were made in 2005 (see paragraphs 12 to 14).
The audited projects were generally in line with the overall investment objectives of Phare, namely to facilitate the alignment with EU norms and standards or to assist in the context of economic and social cohesion (ESC) programmes (see paragraphs 15 and 16).
The Court also got assurance that, in general, the projects were put into place in accordance with the conditions of the supply and works contracts (see paragraphs 17 and 18).
This illustrates the need for the national authorities to make further substantial efforts to finalise the projects and to achieve the underlying project objectives (see paragraphs 19 to 42).
Phare support for the two projects led by international financial institutions was problematic.
In Bulgaria, the Post-Privatisation Fund lacked efficiency and effectiveness (low level of equity investments opposed to high management costs), whereas in Romania the Phare contribution did not provide clear added value for a better regulatory infrastructure in the electricity market (see paragraphs 32 to 36 and paragraphs 37 and 38).
With regard to the supported business parks and incubators many management problems are still to be solved to achieve the desired economic viability (see paragraphs 43 to 56).
Accordingly the Commission should take steps to improve its management regarding these three aspects (see paragraphs 57 to 61).
INTRODUCTION Overall Phare objective 1.
After the closure of the accession negotiations in December 2004 the Commission adopted in February 2005 a favourable opinion on the accession of these two countries to the EU.
This signature paves the way for the ratification procedures that will formalise Bulgaria's and Romania's membership on 1 January 2007.
Phare programming and implementation 5.
Primary responsibility for undertaking and operating the projects lies with Bulgaria and Romania. 9.
Phare national programmes for the year 2000 allocated 34,6 million euro to investment components in Bulgaria and 146,6 million euro to those in Romania (see Annexes II and III).
The Court audited 11 projects [3] involving 48 supply and works contracts which represent Phare support of 14 million euro for Bulgaria and 51 million euro for Romania.
OBSERVATIONS Projects were in line with overall Phare objectives 15.
Some examples from all projects audited are given in Box 1 to illustrate the investments in place.
Box 1 - The digital mobile radio communication system delivered to the National Border Police Service (NBPS) in Bulgaria (contract value of 6,0 million euro).
The system operates in the Lyubimetz border region (adjacent to Turkey) which is according to the Commission one of the most critical areas of Bulgaria in terms of cross-border criminality and a major transit route and conduit for illegal immigration. - The equipment supporting the border police of Romania in respect of mobility (4,4 million euro) and surveillance (5,0 million euro) at the eastern border with Moldova and Ukraine. - Monitoring equipment in the areas of industrial pollution and radiation protection (Bulgaria). - Infrastructure needed for improved accommodation of asylum seekers/refugees (Romania). - Computer equipment for the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (Bulgaria). - A prisoner management database for the penitentiary system (Romania).
The following cases show that progress towards the achievement of specific project objectives has been less than planned (paragraphs 20 to 42).
The specific objective of this project was the modernisation of all Prosecutors' Office (PO) units at central, regional and local levels.
Therefore, 18 months after the target date for completion (end of 2003) the new UIS system was still in the testing phase and could not yet serve as an important tool in the fight against organised crime and corruption.
Strengthening the Romanian judicial and penitentiary system 24.
A similar project was implemented in Romania (three supply contracts with a total value of 8,4 million euro) with the objective of creating a Case and Document Management System (CDMS) which would link all the courts and prosecutorial offices in the country.
The goal of the Phare 2000 project was to be %quot%the last step in linking all the courts and prosecutorial offices in the system%quot%. 25.
Moreover, large parts of the judicial network in Romania were still untouched by CDMS, because the Romanian authorities did not respect their substantial co-financing commitments namely to make available 12 million euro to the Ministry of Justice and 10 million euro to the Public Ministry within the duration of the programme [6].
Investment in SME business incubators in areas of industrial decline in Bulgaria 26.
Business incubators were supposed to be created by renovating old buildings in areas of industrial decline in the two regions.
Five years after the needs assessment, no regional impact in terms of the creation of alternative jobs in areas of industrial decline had materialised. 28.
Box 2 The intended project in Bulgaria with the title %quot%SME Quality Certification%quot% (allocated budget of 4,8 million euro) was not carried out at all in the end.
Concerning the future of these two projects, a series of management problems still had to be solved (see paragraphs 53 to 56 under the title %quot%Risks to economic viability%quot%). 30.
A further project in Romania was entitled %quot%Modernisation and development of tourist infrastructure in Piatra Neamt%quot% (contract value of 2,3 million euro).
Two other infrastructure projects in Romania were blocked from achieving their objectives: (a) the bridge linking Romania and Moldova over the River Prut was completed in December 2004 (total contract price of 3,1 million euro).
Although real costs of about 3 million euro have been incurred, the project is in serious jeopardy.
The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) created the BPPF in 1998 as a fund of 10 years' duration.
Several factors indicate that Phare spending was neither efficient nor effective: (a) instead of investing in 12 to 15 companies, the BPPF had acquired stakes in only six; (b) one of these six companies — one in which the Fund had made by far the largest investment (4 million euro) — went bankrupt; (c) the Fund Manager's management costs were disproportionately high: 4,5 million euro were used for the Fund's administrative costs during the period 1998 to 2002, whereas the total amount for direct equity investments in the six companies after their privatisation was only 11,6 million euro. 35.
The EBRD wound up the BPPF ahead of schedule at the end of 2002. 36.
Phare covers 11 % of the 203 million euro investment part of the programme, the remainder being supported by national co-financing (24 %) and loans from the EBRD (25 %) and the European Investment Bank (40 %).
In Bulgaria, completion of the %quot%Restructuring the agricultural statistics system%quot% project (total contracted value of 0,4 million euro) was planned for January 2002.
As a result, the agricultural statistical network system (ASNS) was not yet operational in January 2005, although the Commission indicated that significant progress has since been made.
Asylum in Romania 40.
The funding was mainly used for the creation of two new accommodation centres in Galati (eastern border) and Timisoara (western border). 41.
The Court audited sustainability based on two aspects: technical viability for investment goods (see paragraphs 44 to 50) and economic viability for business incubators and industrial parks (see paragraphs 51 to 56).
Having resources available for maintenance is all the more important as some of the equipment was unreliable or its technical capabilities did not meet the requirements of the users: (a) in Bulgaria the availability of the night vision goggles was limited because 65 pairs out of 112 originally delivered had been sent back to the supplier for repair; (b) Romanian records show that the eight Phare-funded custom-built surveillance vehicles (total cost 2,1 million euro) were not operational for a third of the time since coming into service in November 2003.
The technical specifications had stated that the boats should be able to be operated day and night, through broken ice and in temperatures from – 15 to 45 °. 50.
However, the Court found that the number of new jobs to be created was unlikely to approach half the 1100 predicted in the feasibility study which supported the Phare project. 55.
While the target of 300 new jobs for the park in Bacau is relatively prudent, it is not certain to be reached.
CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS 57.
Recommendation 1 The national authorities should make further substantial efforts to finalise the projects and to achieve the underlying project objectives.
Recommendation 2 The Commission should adopt a more realistic programming approach for Bulgaria and Romania and the new candidate countries.
The technical viability of some of the assets is in doubt due to a lack of national funding.
Recommendation 3 The Commission should specify the resources for maintenance and the requirements for co-financing as early as the programming stage and introduce a formalised procedure for the verification of these principles.
Recommendation 4 The Commission should improve its analysis of the aspect of additionality and catalytic effects, especially in projects which are led by international financial institutions or other third parties.
This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors in Luxembourg at its meeting of 11 May 2006.
For the Court of Auditors Hubert Weber The President [1] SEC(1999) 1596 final: Guidelines for Phare programme implementation in candidate countries for the period 2000 to 2006 in application of Article 8 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 3906/89, Brussels, 13.10.1999.
The guidelines were revised in September 2002 and in December 2003. [2] Investment normally means buildings and equipment, for which the National Authorities conclude works and supply contracts.
Institution building is defined as the process of helping the candidate countries to develop the structures, strategies, human resources and management skills needed to strengthen their economic, social, regulatory and administrative capacity.
Measures in terms of warranties and maintenance have been taken to ensure both technical viability and longevity.
First indent: The implementation of Phare programmes has been affected by the weakness in the administrative capacity of Romania and Bulgaria in many areas, generating delays in the implementation of some projects.
All designated PPOs have hence received their hardware and are now connected to the Internet. 23.
This investment project aiming at establishing a functioning countrywide application of the case document management system (CDMS) had indeed not been fully completed at the time of the Court's visit: the IT equipment was in place, installed in all the delivery locations, but not functional everywhere.
The Iasi project has been in operation since June 2005, while the project in Bacau has been completed in November 2005.
The common efforts of the Commission services, the international financial institutions (IFI), as well as those made within the 2000 Phare projects (not only the investment components, but also the important institutional building component not mentioned in the report) acted as a catalyst for a stable and lasting development of the market rules and implementation promoting also the alignment on EU norms and standards.
In Romania, the issue of ensuring the IT experts, maintenance and support needs for the sustainability of the investments in the Judiciary sector was included in the Action Plan for the Reform of the Judiciary, approved by the Romanian Government in June 2005.
The Commission will continue to monitor closely these aspects. 46.
The fact that the market is rather limited for this specific type of equipment justified the attribution of the contract to the best offer in the absence of local maintenance capacity in any of the offers technically compliant.
However, monitoring of the implementation is being further enhanced (two peer review missions organised in 2005 alone, with another one foreseen for spring 2006). 51.
In Romania, the Iasi project has been in operation since June 2005, whereas the project in Bacau has been completed in November 2005. 52.
Business parks of this type are effectively a new instrument in Romania for attracting investors and small businesses.
It is hoped that this experience can be succesfully transfered to the other business parks. 54.
In terms of jobs created, 50 have been created by now and another 100 are expected by the end of 2006.
CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS 58.
Recommendation 1 The management capacity of the national authorities has been enhanced and this had a positive influence on their awareness of the need to finalise the projects.
Recommendation 3 The reporting requirements for national co-financing have been improved in the last years, where national authorities have to certify amounts contracted and disbursed via national funds, compare them with the forecast amounts agreed in financing Memoranda and, where necessary, explain the differences between the amounts.
Recommendation 4 In order to address the Court's recommendation, regular meetings are held at a country level between the Commission services (delegations and country desks) and the international financial institutions (IFI), aiming at coordination of the programming activities, and at horizontal level to best structure the cooperation.
