Communication from the Commission — Community guidelines on financing of airports and start-up aid to airlines departing from regional airports (Text with EEA relevance) Communication from the Commission Community guidelines on financing of airports and start-up aid to airlines departing from regional airports (2005/C 312/01) (Text with EEA relevance) 1.
These public service obligations have enabled air transport to make a significant contribution to economic and social cohesion and to balanced development in the regions. (2) In addition, a number of measures have been taken in areas such as allocation of slots [2], groundhandling services [3] and computerised reservation systems [4], in order to underpin this market liberalisation and allow businesses to compete on a level playing field.
Examples of consolidation in the industry are the recent alliances such as Air France/Alitalia, Lufthansa/Austrian Airlines and Iberia/British Airways, and the recent merger of Air France and KLM. (4) The Open Skies [5] judgments of the Court of Justice have also given a new impetus to the air industry by confirming that the Community has international negotiating powers in the field of civil aviation.
Developments in the airport sector (6) The initial development of airports was often determined by purely territorial considerations or, in some cases, military requirements.
The seven largest EU airports account for over a third of all EU traffic, and the 23 largest account for more than two thirds [6].
As emphasised in the 2001 White Paper [7], rail/air intermodality, with rail and air travel complementing rather than competing with each other and high-speed trains connecting cities, is bound to boost capacity significantly. 1.2.1.
Large regional airports may be competing not only with other large regional airports but also with the major Community hubs and land transport, especially if there is high-quality land access to the airport.
This research has also shown that small airports do not generally compete with other airports except, in some cases, with neighbouring airports of a similar size whose markets overlap. (12) In practical terms, the Decision of the Council and of the European Parliament on Community guidelines for the development of the trans-European transport network [9] defined three categories of airport: - international connecting points (generally with an annual passenger volume of no less than 5000000), - Community connecting points (generally with an annual passenger volume of between 1000000 and 4999999), and - regional connecting points and accessibility points (generally with an annual passenger volume of between 250000 and 999999). (13) The Committee of the Regions, for its part, proposed five categories of European airports in its Outlook opinion of 2 July 2003 on regional airport capacities [10]: - major hub airports (over 25 million passengers, four airports), accounting for approximately 30 % of European air traffic, - national airports (10 to 25 million passengers, 16 airports), accounting for approximately 35 % of European air traffic, - 15 airports of 5 to 10 million passengers accounting for approximately 14 % of European air traffic, - 57 airports of 1 to 5 million passengers accounting for approximately 17 % of European air traffic, - 67 airports of 200000 to 1 million passengers accounting for approximately 4 % of European air traffic [11]. (14) According to the Committee of the Regions, regional airports generally fall into the latter two categories, but some airports in the intermediate category may also be considered regional airports. (15) The Commission considers that there is a broad overlap between these two classification schemes, and for the purposes of these guidelines has defined the following four categories: - category A, hereinafter %quot%large Community airports%quot%, with more than 10 million passengers a year, - category B comprises %quot%national airports%quot%, with an annual passenger volume of between 5 and 10 million, - category C comprises %quot%large regional airports%quot%, with an annual passenger volume of between 1 and 5 million, - category D, hereinafter %quot%small regional airports%quot%, with an annual passenger volume of less than 1 million. 1.3.
Low-cost companies (16) Compared with traditional air carriers, the market share of low-cost airlines has risen from just 4,0 % in 1998 to 20,8 % in 2004, although this share varies considerably between Member States [12].
In 2004, the three main low-cost airlines transported over 62 million passengers in the EU [13]. (17) The Commission welcomes this development and appreciates the contribution made by these companies to the general reduction in the price of air travel in Europe, the wider range of services available, and the accessibility of air travel to a wider public.
Objectives of these guidelines and changes compared with the 1994 guidelines (18) The Commission's 1994 guidelines on the application of Articles 92 and 93 of the EC Treaty and Article 61 of the EEA Agreement to State aid to the aviation sector [15](hereinafter the aviation sector guidelines) do not cover all the new aspects relating to the financing of airports and start-up aid for new routes. (19) They relate almost exclusively to the conditions for granting State aid to airlines, by limiting direct operating aid to airlines solely to public service obligations and aid of a social nature.
Notwithstanding the work that remains to be done to extend the high-speed rail network to the whole territory of the EU, we should therefore seek to benefit from the capacity of high-speed rail travel to provide efficient, high-quality connections, and encourage rail and air operators to cooperate in accordance with Article 81 of the EC Treaty in order to develop complementarity between the two modes in the interest of users. (23) In so far as these guidelines take a stand on issues such as the absence or presence of aid, they set out, for information purposes, the Commission's general interpretation of these issues at the time of drafting.
Existence of State aid 3.2.1.
Likewise, once an airport engages in economic activities, regardless of its legal status or the way in which it is financed, it constitutes an undertaking within the meaning of Article 87(1) of the EC Treaty, and the Treaty rules on State aid therefore apply [20]. (31) In the %quot%Aéroports de Paris%quot% case [21], the Court of Justice ruled that airport management and operation activities consisting in the provision of airport services to airlines and to the various service providers within airports are economic activities because they consist in the provision of airport facilities to airlines and the various service providers, in return for a fee at a rate freely fixed by the manager, and do not fall within the exercise of its official powers as a public authority and are separable from its activities in the exercise of such powers.
As explained by the Commission in its Communication of 10 October 2001 following the attacks of 11 September 2001, %quot%It goes without saying that, if certain measures are imposed directly on airlines and other operators in the sector such as airports, suppliers of groundhandling services and providers of air navigation services, the financing of such measures by the public authorities must not give rise to operating aid incompatible with the Treaty.%quot% 3.2.2.
However, it should be noted that the overall management of an airport as a service of general economic interest should not cover activities which are not directly linked to its basic activities and listed in paragraph 53(iv). (35) In this connection, the Commission draws attention to the Court judgment in the Altmark case [24], which established case-law in this regard.
Member States can accordingly own and manage undertakings, and can purchase shares or other interests in public or private undertakings. (43) This principle means that the Commission's action cannot penalise or give more favourable treatment to public authorities which subscribe to the capital of certain companies.
In cases where Member States or public authorities act as private economic operators would, these advantages will not constitute State aid. (50) If, on the other hand, public resources are made available to a company under more favourable conditions (i.e., in economic terms, at a lower cost) than would be provided by a private economic operator to a company in a comparable financial situation and facing similar competition, that company is receiving assistance which constitutes State aid. (51) In terms of start-up aid, it is possible that a public airport gives an airline financial advantages from its own resources generated by its business activity, which would not constitute State aid if it proves to be acting as a private investor, for example by providing a business plan setting out the profitability forecasts for its airport economic activity.
Financing of airport infrastructure (55) This section concerns aid for the construction of airport infrastructure and equipment or facilities that directly support them as defined in paragraphs 53(i) and 54 above. (56) Infrastructure is the basis for the economic activities carried out by the airport operator.
To that end, the Commission will in particular examine whether: - construction and operation of the infrastructure meets a clearly defined objective of general interest (regional development, accessibility, etc.), - the infrastructure is necessary and proportional to the objective which has been set, - the infrastructure has satisfactory medium-term prospects for use, in particular as regards the use of existing infrastructure, - all potential users of the infrastructure have access to it in an equal and non-discriminatory manner, - the development of trade is not affected to an extent contrary to the Community interest. 4.2.
Any public financing of these services would reduce the expenses normally borne by the airport operator in carrying out its current operations. (63) Such funding does not constitute State aid if it is compensation for public services allocated for management of the airport in accordance with the conditions established by the Altmark judgment [32].
As stated in part 3.1 of these guidelines, such aid may be declared compatible only on the basis of Articles 87(3)(a) or (c), under certain conditions, in disadvantaged regions, or on the basis of Article 86(2) if it meets certain conditions which ensure that it is necessary for the operation of a service of general economic interest and does not affect trade to an extent contrary to the Community interest. (64) As regards the application of Article 86(2), as stated in paragraph 40 of these guidelines, the Commission has decided to consider compensation for public services constituting State aid granted to category D airports to be compatible, subject to certain conditions.
Any compensation for public services constituting State aid granted to larger airports (categories A, B or C) or failing to meet the criteria and conditions of this Decision should be notified and examined on a case-by-case basis. (65) To that end, the Commission will verify that the airport really has been entrusted with the operation of a service of general interest and that the compensation does not exceed what is necessary to cover the costs incurred in discharging the public service obligations, taking into account the relevant receipts and a reasonable profit. (66) The award of public service missions to the airport must be recorded in one or more official documents, the form of which may be determined by each Member State.
Aid for airport services (68) Groundhandling services are a commercial activity open to competition over a threshold of two million passengers annually pursuant to Directive 96/67/EC [34].
However, in the absence of competition in the provision of groundhandling services, it must take particular care not to infringe national or Community provisions, and in particular not to abuse its dominant market position, thereby infringing Article 82 of the Treaty (which prohibits undertakings in a dominant position within the common market or in a substantial part of it from applying dissimilar conditions to equivalent transactions with different airlines, thereby placing them at a competitive disadvantage). (70) Above the threshold of two million passengers, groundhandling services must be self-financing and must not be cross-subsidised by the airport's other commercial revenue or by public resources granted to it as airport authority or operator of a service of general economic interest. 5.
Start-up aid 5.1.
The Commission will ensure that such aid does give any advantage to large airports already largely open to international traffic and competition. (75) However, in the light of the general objective of intermodality and optimising the use of infrastructure described above, it will not be acceptable to grant start-up aid for a new air route corresponding to a high-speed train link. (76) Finally, in accordance with the Commission's constant practice in this area, some special arrangements will be accepted for the outermost regions which are penalised by their poor accessibility.
Similar provisions in terms of intensity and duration will also be accepted for the regions referred to in Article 87(3) and for sparsely populated regions. 5.2.
Compatibility criteria (77) Financial start-up incentives, except in cases where the public authorities act as would a private investor working in a market economy (see section 3.2.4), advantage beneficiary undertakings and can therefore directly create distortions between companies as they reduce the beneficiary's operating costs. (78) They can also indirectly affect competition between airports by helping airports to develop or by encouraging a company to %quot%relocate%quot% from one airport to another and transfer a route from a Community airport to a regional one.
For these reasons they usually constitute State aid and must be notified to the Commission. (79) In view of the above objectives and the significant difficulties which can result from launching a new route, the Commission may approve such aid if it fulfils the following conditions: (a) Recipients: the aid is paid to air carriers with a valid operating licence issued by a Member State pursuant to Council Regulation (EEC) No 2407/92 on licensing of air carriers. (b) Regional airports: the aid is paid for routes linking a regional airport in category C or D to another EU airport.
Aid for routes between national airports (category B) can be considered only in duly substantiated exceptional cases, in particular where one of the airports is located in a disadvantaged region.
In particular, it must not lead to a relocation of traffic which is unjustified with regard to the frequency and viability of existing services leaving from another airport in the same city, the same conurbation [40] or the same airport system [41], which serve the same or a similar destination under the same criteria.
The amount of aid in any one year may not exceed 50 % of total eligible costs for that year and total aid may not exceed an average of 30 % of eligible costs.
The amount of aid in any one year may not exceed 50 % of total eligible costs for that year and total aid may not exceed an average of 40 % of eligible costs.
If the aid is granted for five years, it may be maintained at 50 % of total eligible costs for the initial three years.
In addition, such aid cannot be granted when access to a route has been reserved for a single carrier under Article 4 of Regulation (EEC) No 2408/92, and in particular paragraph 1(d) of that Article.
Also, in accordance with the rules of proportionality, such aid cannot be combined with other aid granted to cover the same costs, including aid paid in another State. (81) Start-up aid must be notified to the Commission.
Recipients Of Previous Unlawful Aid (82) When unlawful aid, on which the Commission has adopted a negative decision involving a recovery order, has been granted to a company and the aid has not been recovered in accordance with Article 14 of Council Regulation (EC) No 659/1999 of 22 March 1999 laying down detailed rules for the application of Article 93 of the EC Treaty [43], the assessment of all airport infrastructure aid or start-up aid should take account of both the cumulative effect of the earlier and the new aid and the fact that the earlier aid has not been repaid [44]. 7.
Member States are asked to confirm in writing that they accept these proposals by 1 June 2006 at the latest. (84) Should a Member State fail to confirm its acceptance in writing before that date, the Commission will apply Article 19(2) of Regulation (EC) No 659/1999 and, if necessary, initiate the proceedings provided for in that Article. 8.
Source: OAG Summer Schedules 2004, seats available on intra-EU flights. [13] Ryanair, Easyjet, AirBerlin.
In relation to some remote airports in Scotland and Ireland, they are almost exclusively reliant on subsided PSO air services.%quot% [38] Commission communications of 26 May 2004 (COM(2004) 343 final) and 6 August 2004 (SEC(2004) 1030) on a stronger partnership for the outermost regions. [39] This concerns in particular a seasonal route being made permanent or a non-daily frequency becoming at least daily. [40] Council Regulation (EEC) No 2408/92. [41] As defined under Article 2(m) of Regulation (EEC) No 2408/92. [42] Council Directive 89/665/EEC of 21 December 1989 on the coordination of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to the application of review procedures to the award of public supply and public works contracts (OJ L 395, 30.12.1989, p. 33).
