The territory of the European Union comprises 78 regions at level I, 210 regions at level II and 1093 at level III.
Objective 1 One of the three priority objectives of the Structural Funds.
Objective 2 One of the three priority objectives of the Structural Funds.
SWOT Strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats.
Trans-European Generic term used for the three strands of the Initiative: cross-border cooperation (Strand A), transnational cooperation (Strand B) and interregional cooperation (Strand C).
The Interreg Community Initiative (CI) was launched in 1990 in an attempt to tackle the isolation of border areas.
It was renewed for the periods 1994 to 1999 (Interreg II) and 2000 to 2006 (Interreg III).
With commitment appropriations of 4875 million euro, Interreg III is the most substantial CI.
The Interreg III guidelines focus on the procedures for implementing programmes that seek to enhance cooperation.
However, because some projects are limited to the sharing of experience, they do not always contribute significantly to the resolution of problems specific to border areas.
The analyses requested at the level of each CIP should be used to set specific objectives and measure progress at that level.
INTRODUCTION Context 1.
There is an explicit reference to Interreg in the basic instrument establishing the Structural Funds (SFs) [2].
For the period 2000 to 2006, out of a total of 10432,5 million euro assigned to the four CIs [3], 4875 million euro in commitment appropriations were allocated to Interreg III for interventions under the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), one of the four SFs.
Interreg III comprises three strands [6]: Strand A covers cross-border cooperation between neighbouring regions (53 CIPs); Strand B covers transnational cooperation across large groupings of regions (13 CIPs); and Strand C covers interregional cooperation across the Community as a whole (four CIPs).
The main features of each Strand are shown in Table 3.
Its objective was to answer the following questions and examine what follow-up had been given to the observations made by the Court in the course of its first audit (see paragraph 4): (a) Do the guidelines make it easier to achieve the CI objectives? (b) Did the Commission use a suitable procedure for examining CIP proposals, and were decisions taken within the agreed deadlines? (c) Did the various partners cooperate as required by the guidelines? (d) Was the initial analysis for the region concerned consistent with the priorities and measures of the CIPs, as required by the guidelines? (e) Will it be possible to measure, ex post, the progress achieved? 11.
These CIPs account for 20 % of the budgetary envelope allocated to the Initiative.
Subsequently, the "Linkage Assistance and Cooperation for the European Border Regions" (LACE) project [13] drew up a typology of Interreg II CIPs on the basis of the methods used for implementing programmes, emphasis being placed on the most integrated practices.
Usually, despite the studies referred to in paragraph 15 and the results of the Interreg II interim evaluation, no analysis of the specific situation of eligible areas or information concerning the progress made towards attaining the CI objectives or the specific CIP objectives under either Interreg I or Interreg II was available to the Commission.
Objectives and indicators 19.
In the Interreg III guidelines, each Strand has many far-reaching specific objectives (see Table 3).
The documents produced in order to guide the authorities preparing CIPs through the ex ante evaluation and the selection of indicators specific to Interreg [15] should have focused above all on key ideas translating the Commission's priorities, with a view in particular to the ex post evaluation.
Targeting of measures 22.
Given these considerations, there is all the more reason (see paragraph 20) for the Commission to ensure, when examining the Member States' programme proposals, that measures are targeted (see paragraphs 59 to 63). 23.
A second communication published on 15 May 2001 delimitated the content of cooperation by identifying five themes for interregional cooperation [16], among them a heading of "Other subjects".
The effectiveness of cross-border cooperation starts to decline some 50 to 70 km from the border.
Almost all of the Strand A CIPs examined cover eligible areas stretching more than 70 km from the border (Ems-Dollart Region, Alps, Ireland-Wales and Spain-Portugal). 27.
A document setting out the basic options was drawn up in March 1998 [17].
The procedure for examining CIP proposals did not always result in the desired improvements in CIP quality: (a) the concerns that had caused a first programme proposal to be judged inadmissible were not always sufficiently taken into account.
Given the number of programmes to be examined and the complexity of the examination procedure, improvements to CIP content could have been achieved through a more structured approach based on detailed criteria and aimed at obtaining a transparent, homogeneous evaluation (see paragraphs 51 to 78).
The statutory deadlines for the Commission to adopt programme proposals were as follows: (a) the Member States were to submit proposals no later than six months after the date of publication of the Commission's Communication in the Official Journal of the European Communities, i.e., by 22 November 2000 in the case of Strands A and B and 14 November 2001 in the case of Strand C; (b) the Commission was to decide whether to adopt no later than five months after the date of receipt of an admissible proposal, i.e., by 21 April 2001 in the case of Strands A and B and 13 April 2002 in the case of Strand C. 36.
Only 27 of the 66 CIP proposals for Strands A and B were submitted within the agreed deadline.
These delays, combined with the belated publication of the guidelines, were in part responsible for the fact that the commitment appropriations for 2000 were reallocated and the payment appropriations made available in 2001, 2002 and 2003 were under-utilised (see Table 2).
The ex ante assessors often made a significant contribution to the preparation and drafting of CIPs.
The most significant aspects noted by the assessors, which, it seems, were not given sufficient consideration, are the following: (a) the lack of clarity of the strategy and priorities laid down for the programmes (see paragraphs 58 to 63); (b) the need to define indicators which would enable a programme's impact to be measured; in spite of efforts in this respect (see paragraph 21), the resulting proposals remain inadequate (see paragraphs 73 to 77). 54.
This is true in particular of environmental problems on one side of a border that also impact on the opposite side (water quality, fire prevention, reafforestation, joint action in protected zones, natural hazards, etc.); (b) some programmes include an assessment of cross-border cooperation and of the advantages which this can bring in specific sectors, such as the labour market, transport and communications, science and health (Alpenrhein-Bodensee-Hochrhein and Ems-Dollart Region).
Similar criticisms were voiced of the evaluations of previous periods and, here, by certain ex ante assessors (see paragraphs 52 and 53).
For example all the Strand A programmes examined included measures in the economic, social, rural development, human resources, environment, cultural heritage and tourism sectors.
This explains why these CIPs are no different from traditional intervention programmes, save as regards the specific implementing rules attached to the Initiative (see paragraphs 43 to 49).
The Strand C programmes, which contain no needs analysis and no breakdown of the general objective assigned to the Strand by the guidelines, are not broken down by priority and measure. 63.
In every one of the programmes examined, the definition of a trans-European project given in the Commission guidelines (see paragraphs 13 and 14) is put into practice by means of eligibility and selection criteria to which a rating scale is applied (save in the case of the Ems-Dollart Region CIP).
Although the systems of selection criteria could be improved, this weakness is largely due to the imprecise nature of the stated objectives and the broad scope of the measures within each CIP (see paragraphs 59 to 63).
As is shown by the process of defining priorities and measures for the CIPs of Strands A and B previously examined (see paragraphs 55 to 63), it was not possible to set objectives on the basis of the regional situational analysis or any strategic choices made.
Most programmes have one or two very general objectives and a few sub-objectives, although a greater number of sub-objectives were set in some cases (15 for Spain-Portugal, 21 for Europe and 10 for the Western Mediterranean — see Table 5).
What is more, in some programmes each project partner also has the option of determining its own indicators (Ems-Dollart Region, Alps and Alpenrhein-Bodensee-Hochrhein). 74.
Just two of the eight programmes examined (Alpenrhein-Bodensee-Hochrhein and Ems-Dollart Region) employed a computerised project management system and a database for compiling information to be used when setting indicators.
Compared with the shortcomings noted during the Court's audit of Interreg I, there have been improvements to the trans-European nature of projects and cooperation in the implementation of CIPs (see paragraph 7).
With a view to enhancing cooperation, the Commission guidelines contain a definition of the trans-European projects that are to be implemented in every CIP (see paragraphs 13 and 14) and establish stricter requirements concerning implementation.
Bodies of this sort are able to represent the various regions concerned and take on the task of implementation (see paragraphs 15 and 16). 81.
The Commission has not established common indicators which would allow the progress achieved through implementation of the Initiative to be measured globally at Community level (see paragraphs 17 to 25). 82.
As regards Strand A, no solution has been found, using the present characteristics of the NUTS nomenclature, to the problem of the existence, in a number of Member States, of areas which are too large to allow effective cooperation (see paragraph 26). 83.
The procedure for examining CIP proposals must be improved 84.
Where the results of these analyses are contradicted by the ‘bottom-up’ consultation process, the programmes should explain why (see paragraphs 55 to 57). 90.
Although the sharing of implementing bodies is conducive to cooperation, it has not resulted in a targeted strategy (see paragraphs 59 to 63). 92.
Strand C programmes are the least well defined, in that they offer vague specific guidelines without the ex ante evaluation that would have served to clarify needs.
That it was impossible to define indicators also demonstrates that the Commission was not entirely prepared for the introduction of this Strand (see paragraphs 24, 57, 62 and 72). 93.
In the Court's view there is too little added value, mainly by virtue of the imprecise nature of the stated objectives and the broad scope of the measures for each CIP (see paragraphs 66 to 69).
The available tools are inadequate to the task of measuring the impact of CIPs in relation to their objectives 95.
In most cases, the computer application that should enable the statistical data necessary for the indicators to be collected is still non-existent (see paragraphs 73 to 78).
Recommendations 97.
For the current period: (a) the system of indicators adopted for each CIP should be improved and simplified in order to give a more valid measure of impact, also bearing in mind the weaknesses that were highlighted; (b) the selection criteria for new projects that might benefit from the appropriations that have yet to be committed for each CIP should be strengthened so as to improve the response to specific border-related problems. 98.
For the Court of Auditors Juan Manuel Fabra Vallés President [1] For example, environmental decisions (pollution, water resources, etc.) may be taken on one side of a border without allowing for the situation on the other side, infrastructure (roads, buildings, etc.) may be built without considering what needs exist just across the border, and transport networks may stop at border crossings or fail to be coordinated. [2] Paragraph 38 of the preamble and Articles 20 and 21 of Council Regulation (EC) No 1260/1999 of 21 June 1999 laying down general provisions on the Structural Funds (OJ L 161, 26.6.1999, p. 1). [3] Pursuant to Article 7 of Regulation (EC) No 1260/1999, 5,35 % of the commitment appropriations from the Structural Funds for the period 2000 to 2006, or 195000 million euro at 1999 prices, is allocated to the CIs (Interreg, Urban, Leader and Equal).
Article 20 adds that 2,5 % of this 195000 million euro is assigned to Interreg. [4] Annual Report concerning the financial year 1994, paragraphs 4.61 to 4.72 and 4.89 (OJ C 303, 14.11.1995). [5] See "Community Initiative Interreg II 1994 to 1999: an initial evaluation", January 2000, and "Working paper 6 ( 5 May 2000) – Ex ante evaluation and indicators for Interreg (Strand A)".
Working paper 6 was expanded to include Strand B and reissued as working paper 7. [6] Communication from the Commission to the Member States of 28 April 2000 laying down guidelines for a Community initiative concerning trans-European cooperation intended to encourage harmonious and balanced development of the European territory – Interreg III (OJ C 143, 23.5.2000, p. 6) and Communication from the Commission to the Member States of 7 May 2001 – "Interregional cooperation" – Strand C of the Interreg III Community Initiative (OJ C 141, 15.5.2001, p. 2). [7] Although regions from the accession States and third countries are partners in a number of Interreg CIPs (see the titles of some CIPs on map 1, the hatched regions of map 2 and some regions and countries on map 3), they do not receive funding under the CI.
The assistance from which they benefit derives from Community instruments other than the SFs. [8] Previously, each of the Member States involved in a CIP designated a separate implementing body and different final beneficiaries. [9] Previously, each CIP had as many financial plans and bank accounts receiving Community payments as there were Member States involved. [10] See the Annual Report concerning the financial year 2002, paragraphs 7.46 to 7.59 (Tacis cross-border cooperation programme) and 8.51 to 8.57 (Phare cross-border cooperation programme) (OJ C 286, 28.11.2003). [11] A generic term used for the three strands of the Initiative: cross-border cooperation (Strand A), transnational cooperation (Strand B) and interregional cooperation (Strand C). [12] Paragraph 7 of the Communication to the Member States of 28 April 2000. [13] Ex post evaluation of the Interreg I cross-border CIPs for 1989 to 1993, which was carried out by FERE Consultants in August 1996.
The ‘"Linkage Assistance and Cooperation for the European Border Regions" (LACE) project was run by the Association of European Border Regions (AEBR).
Other documents, published after the guidelines were prepared, concern cross-border financial management (January 2000) and operational guidance on the preparation and management of Interreg IIIA programmes (June 2000). [14] "Community Initiative Interreg II 1994-1999: an initial evaluation", January 2000, European Union — regional policy. [15] "Working paper 6 ( 5 May 2000) — Ex ante evaluation and indicators (Strand A)" — and working paper 7 (October 2000), which expands the content of working paper 6 to include Strand B.
The ex ante evaluation should seek in particular to assess the consistency of the strategy and the designated objectives, account being taken of the strengths and weaknesses identified. [16] "Activities supported under Objective 1 and 2 of the Structural Funds", "Interregional cooperation linking public authorities or equivalent bodies involved in other Interreg programmes", "Interregional cooperation in the field of urban development", "Interregional cooperation linking regions involved under one or several of the three themes of the regional innovative actions for 2000 to 2006" and "Other subjects appropriate to interregional cooperation". [17] "Trans-European cooperation initiative for balanced development", 6.3.1998, DG XVI/A/1. [18] See Special Report No 7/2003 on the implementation of assistance programming for the period 2000 to 2006 within the framework of the Structural Funds, paragraphs 18 to 24 (OJ C 174, 23.7.2003). [19] This distribution was agreed at the meeting of Heads of State and Government in Berlin on 24 and 25 March 1999. [20] This expression is used on page 7 of the Commission's "Working paper 6 ( 5 May 2000) — ex ante evaluation and indicators for Interreg (Strand A)".
No statements of expenditure had yet been made for these projects. [24] For example, the number of cross-border workers, the number of firms engaged in cross-border activity and the percentage of the population that can speak the language of the neighbouring country. [25] For example, the number of shared information systems and cross-border networks. -------------------------------------------------- Table 1 From the basic Community Structural Funds legislation to projects receiving ERDF assistance | | | | (million euro) | | 2000 | 2001 | 2002 | 2003 (provisional) | Initial appropriations | 818,0 | 777,0 | 762,9 | 688,9 | – reallocations | –818,0 | | +147,3 | +188,0 | – transfers | | –73,3 | –46,7 | | + appropriations carried over | | | +109,4 | | = appropriations available (a) | | 703,7 | 972,8 | 876,9 | Implementation (b) | | 594,3 | 972,8 | 876,9 | Appropriations to be carried over (a)–(b) | | 109,4 | 0,0 | 0,0 | Rate of implementation (b)/(a) | 0 % | 84 % | 100 % | 100 % | Initial appropriations | 139,0 | 223,6 | 370,0 | 563,3 | – transfers | | –22,7 | | –370,0 | = appropriations available (a) | | 200,9 | 370,0 | 193,3 | Implementation (b) | | 82,9 | 267,5 | 182,2 | Appropriations cancelled (a)–(b) | 139,0 | 118,0 | 102,5 | 11,1 | Rate of implementation (b)/(a) | 0 % | 41 % | 72 % | 94 % | | Objective | Eligible areas | Priority themes | Resources | Strand A:Cross-border cooperation | Between neighbouring border regions, to develop cross-border economic and social centres through joint strategies for sustainable territorial development. | Areas along the internal and external land borders of the Community and certain maritime areas, as listed in the Annex to the Commission guidelines; adjoining areas may also be eligible, subject to certain conditions.
See Map 1. | Listed in the Annex to the guidelines, but the list is not restrictive (urban, rural and coastal development; SMEs; employment initiatives; labour market and social inclusion; sharing human resources and facilities; environment, sources of energy; transport, communications; legal and administrative cooperation; human and institutional potential, etc.). | At least 50 % of each Member State's Interreg allocation, i.e. 3539,2 million euro at 2003 prices.
This strand comprises 53 CIPs. | Examples of projects:introduction and promotion of a day pass for use on all forms of public transport in a cross-border area,public measures to exploit the potential of a cross-border tourist region (training for guides, promotions, reservation system). | Strand B:Transnational cooperation | To promote a higher level of territorial integration across large associations of European regions, with a view to achieving sustainable, harmonious and balanced development in the Community and better territorial integration with the candidate countries and other neighbouring countries. | Large geographical areas, as defined in the guidelines, grouping several European regions or entire Member States.
See Map 2. | Listed in the Annex to the guidelines, but the list is not restrictive (transnational spatial development strategies; promotion of efficient and sustainable transport and access to the information society; promotion of the environment, cultural heritage and natural resources; promotion of integrated cooperation between maritime regions and insular regions; promotion of cooperation between ultraperipheral regions). | At least 14 % of each Member State's Interreg allocation, i.e. 1313,6 million euro at 2003 prices.
This strand comprises 13 CIPs. | Examples of projects:integrated actions carried out by 14 partners from four Member States with the aim of promoting existing highspeed rail networks (dedicated points of sale, touring exhibitions and events, surveys of passenger needs and passenger satisfaction, publications, etc.),between partners in three Member States, experimentation and modelling in a region of agricultural, forestry and environmental measures to combat soil erosion, run-off of surface water and water retention.
Projection for two other regions and public awareness campaigns, particularly with a view to inclusion in land utilisation plans. | Strand C:Interregional cooperation | To improve the effectiveness of policies and instruments for regional development and cohesion through partnership networks. | Throughout the territory of the Community, between partners in non-neighbouring regions of different Member States.
See Map 3. | Five topics relating to interregional cooperation (activities relating to Objective 1 or Objective 2, Interreg programmes, urban development, innovative regional actions and, generally, any topic concerning interregional cooperation). | 6 % of each Member State's Interreg allocation, i.e. 307,5 million euro at 2003 prices.
There are no indicators as yet. | - Map 1 Source:Commission, DG REGIO.
Map 2 Source:Commission, DG REGIO.
Map 3 Source:Commission, DG REGIO. -------------------------------------------------- THE COMMISSION’S REPLIES SUMMARY III.
The indicators should measure progress made in this field.
THE COMMISSION GUIDELINES 12.
On the question of making available the guidelines for Interreg III, the Commission would refer to its reply to paragraph 28.
The Commission would refer to its remarks in paragraph 21(a). 18.
The definition of the concrete objectives and priorities for the programmes by the Member States’ authorities on the bases of the Interreg guidelines is in line with the principle of subsidiarity. 21.
In response to these calls it financed and monitored some 150 cooperation projects.
For example the NUTS III areas on the Bavarian-Czech border face a different socio-economic situation than the average of the NUTS II areas of Niederbayern or Oberpfalz, which are close to the 2001 EU15 average. 24.
In concentrating operations, preference is given to projects with a heavy cooperation content, whatever the area, for the reasons explained in paragraphs 17 and 22 for cross-border projects and 24 for interregional projects.
The Commission discussed drafts of the guidelines with the Committee for the Development and Conversion of Regions on 30 November and 13 and 20 December 1999.
As stated in paragraph 28 the content of the guidelines was known well before they were finally published.
The proposal was found admissible on 14 February 2001 after additional documentation had been supplied.
As stated in its reply to paragraph 19 of Special Report No 7/2003 (see FN 19), the Commission believes that the regulation time limits were not very realistic, particularly for Interreg. (c) The Commission would refer to its reply to paragraph 36. 38.
The Commission would also refer to its communication of 20 September 2002 (COM(2002) 528) on the evolution of budget execution of the Structural Funds, in particular outstanding commitments (RAL).
As laid down in the guidelines (paragraphs 22 and 23), cross-border cooperation programmes were to be drawn up by the regional or local authorities in partnership with the national authorities, whereas transnational cooperation programmes were to be drawn up by the national authorities in close cooperation with the regional or local authorities. 42.
The Commission would refer to its replies to paragraphs 59 to 63. 44.
Concerning a possible new legal instrument for cooperation in the new period, the Commission refers to its reply to at point 16. 45.
In the guidelines the Commission had suggested that the system of financial management should allow a transfer from the ERDF, but preferably also national co-financing (point 25 of the guidelines).
It is true that the bottom-up approach, which the Commission considers essential in regional development, is potentially at odds with the principle of concentrating financial resources "on a limited number of topics and measures" (point 11 of the guidelines).
In view of the problems facing these areas as set out in paragraphs 17, 21, 22 and 58, it is normal that the topics covered should be the same as in traditional programmes. 61.
The Commission would refer to its reply to paragraph 57. 63.
Applying solutions in these areas is the sole responsibility of the Member States.
Complementarity lies principally in the cross-border cooperation aspect which comes on top of the traditional and economic and social development.
The Court is quite right in underlining that some strand A projects financed by Interreg are not carried out jointly by partners on both sides of a border.
In some cases they may then be in a position to carry out more effectively local development actions financed, for instance, under mainstream or Interreg financed cross-border programmes.
This applies to improvement in business support and the prevention of coastal erosion. 69.
As regards the observation on the lack of targeting, the Commission would refer to its reply to paragraph 63.
As explained in the reply to paragraph 63, the bottom-up approach means taking into account the opinions of partners in determining objectives and not only the SWOT analysis.
In addition, the general objective of cross-border CIPs of developing cooperation between administrations and organisations of all kinds on both sides of the border (see paragraph 63) and the intangible nature of a good many of the activities chosen make it difficult to quantify exactly the impact of the operation (see paragraphs 21 and 22). 73.
The lack of accuracy of the measurement of impact is mainly due to the intangible nature of the large number of activities financed. 74.
CONCLUSION AND RECOMMENDATIONS 79.
The delays in the publication of guidelines and in the approval of programmes did not have any decisive effect on the quality of programmes (see replies to paragraphs 28, 29 and 36 to 39).
As regards evaluation, some progress was made through the increased quantification of objectives, even though this progress was limited because of the intangible nature of many of them (see the reply to paragraph 21). 80.
As stated in paragraphs 17 and 58, the general objective of cross-border cooperation is the development of a cross-border economy by developing cross-border socio-economic centres out of the two economies separated by the border.
The Commission would refer to its replies to paragraphs 26 and 55. 83.
It would refer to its reply to paragraph 28. 84.
They were also the result of the time taken by Member States, who had to talk to each other and reach agreement on the improvements requested by the Commission.
As explained in paragraphs 37 and 38, as a rule they took longer in doing this than the Commission did in examining the proposals.
As regards the low take-up of payment appropriations, the Commission would refer to its reply to paragraph 39. 86.
The Commission would also refer to its replies to paragraphs 58 and 59. 87.
The Commission believes that improvements are still necessary in terms of shared structures, and it is reassuring to note that in most cases there is a single financial plan, despite the fact that the resources allocated to the structural funds are distributed by Member States. 88.
The Commission would refer to its reply to paragraph 52. 89.
The objective set by the Commission in its guidelines for strand C, namely "improving regional development policies and instruments", responds to a need which can be identified only by the public authorities concerned by comparing their own policies with those of their counterparts in other Member States.
Complementarity is to be found principally in the cross-border cooperation element which is additional to traditional economic development. 94.
In this connection the Commission believes that exchange of experience is a way of improving the know-how of the bodies involved and, in some cases, a prerequisite for the development of innovative actions and better use of public funds. 95.
The Commission does not believe that projects should be concerned solely with resolving specific border-related problems (see paragraphs 58 and 63). (a) The Interact programme also helps to prepare the future.
