Proposal for a Council Decisionon the conclusion by the European Community of the Agreement on the International Dolphin Conservation Programme /* COM/2004/0764 final - CNS 2004/0268 */ Brussels, 29.11.2004 COM(2004) 764 final 2004/268 (CNS) Proposal for a COUNCIL DECISION on the conclusion by the European Community of the Agreement on the International Dolphin Conservation Programme (presented by the Commission) EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM Following the Council Decision 1999/337/EC of 26 April 1999, the European Community signed the Agreement on the International Dolphin Conservation Programme (AIDCP) which has as its objectives the progressive reduction of incidental dolphin mortalities in the tuna purse-seine fishery in the Eastern Pacific Ocean to levels approaching zero, through the setting of annual limits and the long term sustainability of the tuna stocks in the Agreement Area.
The Council Decision 1999/386/EC of 7 June 1999, authorised the European Community to apply on a provisional basis the Agreement on the International Dolphin Conservation Programme.
This Decision foresaw that Spain would participate in IATTC decisions in line with the Community position and in close consultation with the Commission.
With the accession of Spain to the IATTC in June 2003, the participation of the Community in the IATTC has been effectively ensured, in line with the Council Decision of June 1999.
The Kingdom of Spain has acceded to the IATTC on June 2003.
The official accession of the Community to the IATTC will take place upon entry into force of the Convention for the strengthening of the Inter-American Tropical Tuna Commission established by the 1949 Convention between the United States of America and the Republic of Costa Rica (the Antigua Convention), of which the Community is a signatory[6].
Article 2 The President of the Council is hereby authorised to designate the persons empowered to deposit the instrument of approval with the Government of the United States of America as Depositary of the Agreement in Accordance with Article XXXII thereof.
The establishment of an equitable system for the assignment of dolphin mortality limits (DMLs), consistent with the per-year dolphin mortality caps, in accordance with Annexes III and IV; e.
The ordinary Meeting of the Parties shall take place at least once a year, preferably in conjunction with the IATTC meeting. 3.
These meetings shall be convened at the request of any Party, provided that such request is supported by a majority of the Parties. 4.
Such meetings shall take place at least once a year in conjunction with the ordinary Meeting of the Parties.
In particular, each Party shall ensure, through , inter alia, an annual certification and inspection program, that vessels subject to its jurisdiction comply with: a.
The Parties shall promote transparency in the implementation of this Agreement, including through public participation, as appropriate. 2.
Representatives from intergovernmental organizations and representatives from non-governmental organizations concerned with matters relevant to the implementation of this Agreement shall be afforded the opportunity to take part in meetings of the Parties convened pursuant to Article VIII as observers or otherwise, as appropriate, in accordance with the guidelines and criteria set forth in Annex X.
After the date referred to in paragraph 1, with respect to each state or regional economic integration organization that meets the requirements of Article XXVI, the Agreement will enter into force for each state or regional economic integration organization upon deposit of its instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession.
Provisional application by a State or regional economic integration organization shall terminate upon the entry into force of this Agreement for that State or regional economic integration organization or upon notification by that State or regional economic integration organization to the Depositary in writing of its intention to terminate provisional application.
The Depositary shall provide a copy of this text to all other Parties. 2.
Annex II On-Board Observer Program 1.
The Parties shall maintain an On-Board Observer Program in accordance with the provisions of this Annex.
Each Party shall require its vessels with a carrying capacity greater than 363 metric tons (400 short tons) and that operate in the Agreement Area, to carry an observer during each fishing trip in the Agreement Area.
At least 50 percent of the observers on the vessels of each Party shall be IATTC observers; the remainder may be from the Party’s national observer program, based on criteria set forth in this Annex as well as any other criteria established by the Meeting of the Parties. 3.
to perform such other functions as agreed by the Parties. 5.
The observers shall: a.
The responsibilities of the Parties and vessel captains regarding observers shall include the following, inter alia : a.
satellite navigation equipment; ii.
Observers shall have access to the vessel working deck during net and fish retrieval and to any specimen, alive or dead, that is brought aboard the vessel during a set in order to collect biological samples in accordance with the On-Board Observer Program or as otherwise required by competent national authorities as part of a national observer program; d.
ensure that any observers from their respective national programs collect information in the same manner as is required for IATTC observers; and b.
No observer shall be assigned to a vessel with a DML unless the vessel's fishing captain is on the list of qualified captains maintained in accordance with Annex VII, paragraph 1(e). 11.
No observer shall be assigned to a vessel for which the fees, as required under paragraph 11(b) of this Annex, have not been paid. 13.
Annex III Per-Stock, Per-Year Dolphin Mortality Caps 1.
The Parties shall conduct in 1998, or as soon as possible thereafter, a scientific review and assessment of progress toward the year 2001 objective, and consider recommendations as appropriate.
Within six months of the entry into force of this Agreement, the Parties shall establish a system for the allocation of the per-stock per-year dolphin mortality cap for each stock for the ensuing year and years thereafter.
Annex IV Dolphin Mortality Limits (DMLs) I.
Assignment of DMLs 1.
Each Party shall provide to the other Parties, through the Director, prior to April 1 of each year, a list of vessels under its jurisdiction of carrying capacity greater than 363 metric tons (400 short tons) that have requested a second-semester DML for that same year. 2.
it has been certified by the relevant national authorities to be in possession of all of the dolphin safety gear and equipment required in Annex VIII; b.
it is over 363 metric tons (400 short tons) carrying capacity in size; d.
Any accidental mortalities caused by vessels operating in the Agreement Area under the jurisdiction of any of the Parties that have not requested DMLs for their fleet shall also be deducted from this RDA. 8.
No DML shall be assigned to a vessel which has been determined by the Parties to have engaged in a pattern of violations, as confirmed through enforcement actions taken against such vessel by the Party under whose jurisdiction it operates, which diminish the effectiveness of the International Dolphin Conservation Program. 10.
The individual Parties with qualified vessels that will be fishing for tuna in association with dolphins shall manage their DMLs in a responsible manner, provided that no individual vessel shall receive a total annual DML in excess of the DML established for 1997 by the IRP, and reported in the Minutes of the 14th Meeting of the IRP, held on February 19-20, 1997, under the La Jolla Agreement.
No Party shall allocate to the total of its qualified vessels a greater number of DMLs than those that such Party has been allocated under Sections I and III of this Annex.
No initial assignment of DMLs may result in any vessel receiving a DML in excess of the ADML if, during the previous two years, it has committed any of the infractions identified in Section III, paragraph 4 of this Annex, subject to the conditions established pursuant to that paragraph. 11.
Should the total mortalities of the fleet of any Party meet or exceed the total amount of DML distributed to it pursuant to this Annex, fishing for tuna in association with dolphins shall cease for all vessels operating under the jurisdiction of that Party. 12.
Utilization of DMLs 1.
After April 1 of each year, any DMLs which the Director determines will not be utilized pursuant to Section II or which have otherwise been forfeited shall be reallocated to the Parties consistent with this Section. 2.
No later than May 1 of each year, the full-year DMLs assigned to those vessels that have not utilized them, pursuant to Section II, or have otherwise forfeited them, shall be redistributed among the Parties by the Director, consistent with the formula established pursuant to Section I, paragraph 5, but after first adjusting such formula as set forth in subparagraphs (a), (b) and (c) below.
Such additional DMLs may be reallocated by the individual Parties among qualified vessels under the jurisdiction of such Party, subject to limitations and conditions set forth in paragraphs 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 of this Section.
For any vessel exceeding its DML, as it may be adjusted pursuant to this Annex, during a given year, the amount of such excess, plus an additional 50 percent of that amount, unless the IRP recommends otherwise, shall be deducted from DMLs assigned to that vessel by a Party under whose jurisdiction the vessel operates over subsequent years in a manner prescribed by the IRP. 7.
The Parties shall ensure that in the implementation of the DML system established by this Annex, the per-stock, per-year dolphin mortality caps, as specified in Annex III, are not exceeded. 2.
In cases involving unusual or extraordinary circumstances not foreseen in this Annex, the Parties, as recommended by the IRP, may take such measures as are necessary, consistent with the provisions of this Annex, in order to implement the DML system. 3.
Assist the Director in locating sources of funding to conduct such research. 3.
Annex VI National Scientific Advisory Committees 1.
The Director may convene, in addition to the meetings pursuant to Article XI, paragraph 3, meetings with the purpose of facilitating consultation among the NATSACs. 4.
Annex VII International Review Panel 1.
Identify possible infractions, based on the list of possible infractions approved by the Meeting of the Parties; d.
Inform each Party, through the Director, of possible infractions committed by vessels flying its flag or operating under its jurisdiction, and receive from that Party information on the actions taken; e.
Maintain an updated report on the actions taken by the Parties to provide adequate training for fishing captains, and maintain a list of those fishing captains determined to be complying with established performance requirements, based on the information provided by each of the Parties; f.
Perform other functions as assigned by the Meeting of the Parties. 2.
The non-governmental members will be elected in accordance with the following procedure: a.
Any member shall have the right to ask that any decision made by the Presider be decided as specified in Paragraph 9 of this Annex. 8.
In cases of urgency, and without prejudice to the provisions of paragraph 9 of this Annex, the IRP may take decisions by correspondence through a vote of the governmental members, under the following procedures: a.
The proposal shall be considered urgent unless a simple majority of the governmental members objects in writing; the proposal shall be accepted unless any governmental member objects in writing; and c.
The members of the IRP and any other participants invited to attend IRP meetings as observers shall treat all the information presented at such meetings in accordance with the provisions of confidentiality set forth in Article XVIII of this Agreement.
A minimum length of 180 fathoms (as measured before installation), except that the minimum length of the DSP in nets deeper than 18 strips must be determined in a ratio of 10 fathoms in length for each strip of net depth.
Cease setting on dolphins when its DML has been reached; h.
A vessel without a DML is exempt from the requirements of Paragraph 2 of this Annex and from the obligation of carrying out the backdown maneuver mentioned in Paragraph 3 of this Annex unless the Party with jurisdiction over that vessel determines otherwise.
Any such vessel that captures dolphins accidentally shall attempt to release the dolphins, using every means at its disposal, including aborting the set, and taking into consideration the requirements set forth in paragraph 3 of this Annex. 5.
Vessels under 363 metric tons (400 short tons) No vessel with a carrying capacity of 363 metric tons (400 short tons) or less may intentionally set on dolphins.
Annex IX Elements of a Tuna Tracking and Verification Program 1.
Pursuant to Article V, paragraph 1(f), the Parties shall establish a program to track and verify tuna harvested by vessels in the Agreement Area, based on the following elements: a.
Non-governmental organizations (NGOs) with recognized experience in matters pertaining to this Agreement shall be eligible to participate as observers in all Meetings of the Parties convened pursuant to Article VIII except meetings held in executive session or meetings of Heads of Delegation. 3.
Any NGO desiring to participate as an observer in a Meeting of the Parties shall notify the Director of its desire to participate at least 50 days in advance of the Meeting.
If a Meeting of the Parties is held with less than 50 days notice, the Director shall have greater flexibility concerning the timing of the sending of the invitations. 5.
An NGO desiring to participate as an observer may do so unless a majority of the Parties formally objects for cause in writing at least 30 days prior to the beginning of the meeting in question. 6.
attend meetings, subject to paragraph 2 of this Annex, but not vote; b.
LEGISLATIVE FINANCIAL STATEMENT +++++ TABLE +++++ 1.
These clauses enable the Commission to verify the implementation of the operations for which it is providing part-financing by means of both documentary checks and inspections on the ground. [1] OJ C […], […], p. […]. [2] OJ C […], […], p. […]. [3] OJ L 132, 27.05.1999, p. 1. [4] OJ L 147, 12.06.1999, p. 23. [5] OJ L 155, 22.06.1999 p. 37. [6] OJ L (Signature of the Antigua Convention – Decision) [7] For further information, see separate explanatory note.
