The Stabilisation and Association Council established by Article 110 of the said Agreement supervises the implementation of this Agreement and examines any major issues arising within the framework of the Agreement and any other bilateral or international issues of mutual interest.
As provided in Article 111 of the said Agreement, the Stabilisation and Association Council shall establish its rules of procedure.
In conformity with Article 114 of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, these rules of procedure determine the duties of the Stabilisation and Association Committee, which shall assist the Stabilisation and Association Council in the performance of its duties.
The first period shall begin on the date of the first Stabilisation and Association Council meeting and end on 31 December 2005.
Article 2 Meetings The Stabilisation and Association Council shall meet regularly at ministerial level once a year.
Meetings of the Stabilisation and Association Council shall be jointly convened by the Secretaries of the Stabilisation and Association Council in agreement with the President.
Article 3 Representation The members of the Stabilisation and Association Council may be represented if unable to attend.
Article 4 Delegations The members of the Stabilisation and Association Council may be accompanied by officials.
Article 5 Secretariat An official of the General Secretariat of the Council of the European Union and an official of the Mission of Croatia in Brussels shall act jointly as Secretaries of the Stabilisation and Association Council.
Article 6 Correspondence Correspondence addressed to the Stabilisation and Association Council shall be sent to the President of the Stabilisation and Association Council at the address of the General Secretariat of the Council of the European Union.
The two Secretaries shall ensure that correspondence is forwarded to the President of the Stabilisation and Association Council and, where appropriate, circulated to other members of the Stabilisation and Association Council.
Article 7 Publicity Unless otherwise decided, the meetings of the Stabilisation and Association Council shall not be public.
It shall be forwarded by the Secretaries of the Stabilisation and Association Council to the addressees referred to in Article 6 not later than 15 days before the beginning of the meeting.
The agenda shall be adopted by the Stabilisation and Association Council at the beginning of each meeting.
The President may, in agreement with the two Parties, shorten the time limits specified in paragraph 1 in order to take account of the requirements of a particular case.
Article 9 Minutes Draft minutes of each meeting shall be drawn up by the two Secretaries.
The draft minutes shall be submitted to the Stabilisation and Association Council for approval.
The decisions and recommendations of the Stabilisation and Association Council, within the meaning of Article 110 of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, shall be entitled respectively "Decision" and "Recommendation" followed by a serial number, by the date of their adoption and by a description of their subject matter.
Article 11 Languages The official languages of the Stabilisation and Association Council shall be the official languages of the two Parties.
The rules of procedure of the Stabilisation and Association Committee are annexed to this Decision.
Done at For the Stabilisation and Association Council The Chairman ANNEX II Rules of Procedure of the Stabilisation and Association Committee Article 1 Chairmanship The Stabilisation and Association Committee shall be presided over alternately for periods of 12 months by a representative of the European Commission, on behalf of the Community and its Member States, and by a representative of the Government of Croatia.
The first period shall begin on the date of the first Stabilisation and Association Council meeting and end on 31 December 2005.
Article 2 Meetings The Stabilisation and Association Committee shall meet when circumstances require, with the agreement of both Parties.
Each meeting of the Stabilisation and Association Committee shall be held at a time and place agreed by both Parties.
The meetings of the Stabilisation and Association Committee shall be convened by the Chairman.
Article 3 Delegations Before each meeting, the Chairman shall be informed of the intended composition of the delegation of each Party.
Article 4 Secretariat An official of the European Commission and an official of Croatia Government shall act jointly as Secretaries of the Stabilisation and Association Committee.
All communications to and from the Chairman of the Stabilisation and Association Committee provided for in this Decision shall be forwarded to the Secretaries of the Stabilisation and Association Committee and to the Secretaries and the President of the Stabilisation and Association Council.
Article 5 Publicity Unless otherwise decided, the meetings of the Stabilisation and Association Committee shall not be public.
It shall be forwarded by the Secretaries of the Stabilisation and Association Committee to the addressees referred to in Article 4 not later than 15 days before the beginning of the meeting.
The Chairman may, in agreement with the two Parties, shorten the time limits specified in paragraph 1 in order to take account of the requirements of a particular case.
Article 8 Decisions and recommendations In the specific cases where the Stabilisation and Association Committee is empowered by the Stabilisation and Association Council under Article 110 of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement to take decisions/make recommendations, these acts shall be entitled respectively "Decision" and "Recommendation", followed by a serial number, by the date of their adoption and by a description of their subject matter.
The decisions and recommendations of the Stabilisation and Association Committee shall be signed by the President and authenticated by the two Secretaries and shall be forwarded to the addressees referred to in Article 4 of this Annex.
