[pic] | COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES | Brussels, 12.08.2005 COM(2005) 371 final 2005/0151(CNS) Proposal for a COUNCIL DECISION on the signature and provisional application of the Agreement between the European Community and the Republic of Moldova on certain aspects of air services Proposal for a COUNCIL DECISION on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Community and the Republic of Moldova on certain aspects of air services (presented by the Commission) EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM International aviation relations between Member States and third countries have traditionally been governed by bilateral air services agreements between Member States and third countries, the Annexes to such agreements and other related bilateral or multilateral arrangements.
Article 2 of the Agreement replaces the traditional designation clauses with a Community designation clause, permitting all Community carriers to benefit from the right of establishment.
Articles 4 and 5 of the Agreement address two types of clauses concerning matters of Community competence.
Article 5 (Pricing) resolves conflicts between the existing bilateral air services agreements and Council Regulation No 2409/92 on fares and rates for air services which prohibits third country carriers from being price leaders on air services for carriage wholly within the Community.
For the purposes of this Agreement, definitions are listed in Annex 4. 2.
ARTICLE 2 Designation by a Member State 1.
the air carrier is owned, directly or through majority ownership, and it is effectively controlled by Member States and/or nationals of Member States, and/or by other states listed in Annex 3 and/or nationals of such other states. 3.
the air carrier is not owned, directly or through majority ownership, or it is not effectively controlled by Member States and/or nationals of Member States, and/or by other states listed in Annex 3 and/or nationals of such other states.
ARTICLE 3 Safety 1.
The provisions in paragraph 2 of this Article shall complement the articles listed in Annex 2 (c). 2.
ARTICLE 4 Taxation of aviation fuel 1.
The provisions in paragraph 2 of this Article shall complement the corresponding provisions in the articles listed in Annex 2 (d). 2.
The provisions in paragraph 2 of this Article shall complement the articles listed in Annex 2 (e). 2.
ARTICLE 6 Annexes to the Agreement The Annexes to this Agreement shall form an integral part thereof.
ARTICLE 8 Entry into force and provisional application 1.
ARTICLE 9 Termination 1.
