Opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee on Strengthening economic governance — The reform of the Stability and Growth Pact Opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee on Strengthening economic governance — The reform of the Stability and Growth Pact (2006/C 88/15) On 10 February 2005 the European Economic and Social Committee decided to draw up an opinion, under Rule 29(2) of its Rules of Procedure, on Strengthening economic governance — The reform of the Stability and Growth Pact.
From the Maastricht Treaty to the Stability and Growth Pact 2.1 The Stability and Growth Pact, adopted in 1997, was intended to secure ongoing budgetary discipline within Economic and Monetary Union as launched by the Maastricht Treaty [1].
Over the past six years, inflation has been significantly contained in the euro area, at around 2 %.
There are additional contributing factors and, as will become clear, the second interpretation — which deems the current European macroeconomic policy inadequate in both monetary and fiscal terms — supports this theory. 4.5 As far as monetary policy is concerned, the European Central Bank, in line with its sole objective of %quot%guaranteeing monetary stability%quot% in the euro area, adopted a particularly rigid monetary policy, setting a target inflation rate of 2 %, which was seen as excessively constraining during the period of stagnation in 2001-2002.
Seen in these terms, the Pact should address the debt sustainability of euro-area countries and introduce greater flexibility for those countries whose debt level is below or around 60 %. 4.9 In September 2003, the economist Paul De Grauwe put forward an interesting proposal for reform under which every euro-area government should define its own objective regarding debt/GDP (based on its own economic and financial circumstances) and take a series of economic policy measures over time to achieve it.
We all remember Germany and France's refusal to submit to the 3 % rule and the diatribe that ensued between the Commission and the European Council.
In autumn 2004, the Commission drafted a reform proposal for the European Council which set out five guidelines: 5.2.1 The important thing in surveillance of budgetary positions is to concentrate on debt and sustaining equilibrium, while continuing to monitor the deficit. 5.2.2 Medium-term budgetary objectives would be set for each Member State, so as to allow for specific circumstances.
This would on the one hand prevent infringements of the 3 % deficit/GDP rule if there is a downturn, and on the other reduce the debt/GDP ratio, not least to stave off the impact that population ageing would otherwise have on the budgets of some countries. 5.2.3 It is proposed that excessive deficit procedures (EDP) take greater account of economic circumstances.
Deviations are permissible in the case of structural reforms, and there are no sanctions for failure to meet the annual adjustment of 0.5 %. 5.4.3 Factors justifying breach of the 3 % GDP reference value.
One consequence of this is that countries which have carried out such reforms are allowed to deviate from the MTO or to overshoot the 3 % deficit threshold. 6.5.1 The document introduces the concept of %quot%implicit liabilities%quot% or liabilities incurred by the increased spending that awaits the various countries in the near future because of their ageing populations.
The EESC's proposals for re-establishing European economic governance 7.1 Regrettably, in the course of the reform process launched by the Commission in the autumn of 2004 and concluding with the reform of the Pact decreed by the European Council in the spring of 2005, the courage was lacking to review and redefine the theory and ideology underpinning the Pact.
Moreover, fiscal policy is an integral part of economic policy, and so, as has already been stated in other EESC opinions [21], measures adopted on these issues in the euro area could facilitate greater economic and social cohesion for the entire EU system. 7.6.2 EMU countries could appoint a coordinator or spokesperson for EU Member States' economic policy who would be tasked with coordinating European economic policies and who would be given real power to do so.
The coordinator would work in collaboration with both the president of the European Central Bank and the European Commission president. 7.6.3 Furthermore, members of the enhanced cooperation group could decide to set up periodic hearings involving the coordinator of the EMU enhanced cooperation group, the Commission, the Council, the European Parliament and the European Central Bank.
Brussels, 15 February 2006.
The President of the Economic and Social Committee Anne-Marie Sigmund [1] The Stability and Growth Pact was formally adopted in 1997 (with the aim of strengthening budgetary discipline within Economic and Monetary Union as provided for by Articles 99 and 104 of the Treaty establishing the European Community) and came into real effect with the launch of the euro on 1 January 1999. [2] Resolution of the European Council on the Stability and Growth Pact, Amsterdam, 17 June 1997. [3] The excessive deficit procedure is not applied in the following exceptional cases: i) where the deficit is the result of an unusual event outside the control of the Member State concerned; ii) if the country is in economic recession (if there is a fall in real GDP of at least 2 %).
What followed is know.%quot% Pisani-Ferry, J. (2005). [10] COM(2004) 581 final. [11] COM(2005) 154 and 155 final. [12] This factor was inserted at the insistence of the German government to take account of German re-unification costs.
