Agreement in the form of an Exchange of Letters between the European Community and Bulgaria concerning the recognition of regionalization of African swine fever in the Kingdom of Spain 
AGREEMENT 
in the form of an exchange of letters between the European Community and Bulgaria concerning the recognition of regionalization of African swine fever in the Kingdom of Spain 
A. Letter from Bulgaria 
Sir, 
I have the honour to refer to the discussions concerning trade arrangements for certain agricultural products between the Community and Bulgaria which have taken place in the framework of the negotiations of the Europe Agreement. 
I hereby confirm that Bulgaria accepts to recognize that the territory of the Kingdom of Spain, with the exception of the provinces of Badajoz, Huelva, Sevilla and C贸rdoba, is free from African swine fever, under the same terms as foreseen in Council Decision 89/21/EEC of 14 December 1988, as modified by the Community Decision 91/112/EEC of 12 February 1991. 
Bulgaria accepts this derogation without prejudice to all other requirements foreseen by the Bulgarian veterinary legislation. 
I should be obliged if you would confirm the agreement of the Community to the contents of this letter. 
Please accept, Sir, the assurance of my highest consideration. 
For the Government 
B. Letter from the Community 
Sir, 
I have the honour to acknowledge receipt of your letter of today's date which reads as follows: 
'I have the honour to refer to the discussions concerning trade arrangements for certain agricultural products between the Community and Bulgaria which have taken place in the framework of the negotiations of the Europe Agreement. 
I hereby confirm that Bulgaria accepts to recognize that the territory of the Kingdom of Spain, with the exception of the provinces of Badajoz, Huelva, Sevilla and C贸rdoba, is free from African swine fever, under the same terms as foreseen in Council Decision 89/21/EEC of 14 December 1988, as modified by the Commission Decision 91/112/EEC of 12 February 1991. 
Bulgaria accepts this derogation without prejudice to all other requirements foreseen by the Bulgarian veterinary legislation. 
I should be obliged if you would confirm the agreement of the Community to the contents of this letter.' 
I have the honour to confirm that the Community is in agreement with the contents of your letter. 
Please accept, Sir, the assurance of my highest consideration. 
For the Community 
