Agreement in the form of an exchange of letters 
concerning the extension of the Protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial compensation provided for in the agreement between the European Economic Community and the Islamic Federal Republic of The Comoros on fishing off The Comoros for the period from 28 February 2004 to 31 December 2004 
A. Letter from the Community 
Sir, 
I have the honour to confirm that we agree to the following interim arrangements for the extension of the Protocol currently in force ( 28 February 2001 to 27 February 2004) setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Islamic Federal Republic of The Comoros on fishing off The Comoros, pending the negotiations on the amendments to be made to the Protocol to the Fisheries Agreement: 
1. From 28 February 2004 to 31 December 2004 the arrangements applicable over the last three years will continue in operation. The Community's financial contribution under the interim arrangements will correspond pro rata temporis to the amount provided for in Article 2 of the Protocol currently in force, i.e. EUR 291875. This financial contribution will be paid no later than 1 December 2004. The relevant conditions for payment of the amount provided for in Article 3 of the Protocol will also apply. 
2. During the interim period, fishing licences will be granted within the limits applicable under Article 1 of the Protocol currently in force, against payment of fees or advances equal to those set out at point 1 of the Annex to the Protocol. 
I should be obliged if you would acknowledge receipt of this letter and confirm that you are in agreement with its contents. 
Please accept, Sir, the assurance of my highest consideration. 
On behalf of the Council of the European Union 
B. Letter from the Government of the Union of The Comoros 
Sir, 
I have the honour to acknowledge receipt of your letter of today's date, which reads as follows: 
"I have the honour to confirm that we agree to the following interim arrangements for the extension of the Protocol currently in force ( 28 February 2001 to 27 February 2004) setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Islamic Federal Republic of The Comoros on fishing off The Comoros, pending the negotiations on the amendments to be made to the Protocol to the Fisheries Agreement: 
1. From 28 February 2004 to 31 December 2004 the arrangements applicable over the last three years will continue in operation. The Community's financial contribution under the interim arrangements will correspond pro rata temporis to the amount provided for in Article 2 of the Protocol currently in force, i.e. EUR 291875. This financial contribution will be paid no later than 1 December 2004. The relevant conditions for payment of the amount provided for in Article 3 of the Protocol will also apply. 
2. During the interim period, fishing licences will be granted within the limits applicable under Article 1 of the Protocol currently in force, against payment of fees or advances equal to those set out at point 1 of the Annex to the Protocol. 
I should be obliged if you would acknowledge receipt of this letter and confirm that you are in agreement with its contents." 
I have the honour to confirm that the above is acceptable to the Government of the Union of The Comoros and that your letter and this letter constitute an agreement in accordance with your proposal. 
Please accept, Sir, the assurance of my highest consideration. 
For the Government of the Union of The Comoros 
-------------------------------------------------- 
