Cooperation Agreement between the European Atomic Energy Community and the International Atomic Energy Agency 
COOPERATION AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE EUROPEAN ATOMIC ENERGY COMMUNITY AND THE INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (75/780/Euratom) 
Article I 
Cooperation and consultation 
The International Atomic Energy Agency (hereinafter referred to as %quot%the Agency%quot%) and the European Atomic Energy Community (hereinafter referred to as %quot%the Community%quot%), with a view to promoting the attainment of the objectives laid down by the Statute of the Agency and the Treaty establishing the Community, agree to act in close cooperation. The Contracting Parties shall consult each other regularly on matters of mutual interest with a view to harmonizing their efforts, as far as possible, having due regard to their respective characters and objectives. 
Article II 
Representation 
1. The Community shall be invited to be represented at the regular annual sessions of the General Conference of the Agency and its representatives may participate, without the right to vote, in the deliberations of that body and, where appropriate, of its committees with respect to items on their agenda in which the Community has an interest. 
2. The Agency and the Community shall also make any necessary arrangements for ensuring reciprocal representation at appropriate meetings convened under their respective auspices. 
Article III 
Exchange of information and documents 
The Agency and the Community shall undertake a full exchange of information and documents, subject to such restrictions and arrangements as may be considered necessary by either Contracting Party to preserve the confidential nature of certain information and documents. 
Article IV 
Administrative and technical cooperation 
If the cooperation proposed by one of the Contracting Parties to the other in accordance with this Agreement entails expenditure beyond the ordinary running expenses, consultations shall be held between the Agency and the Community to determine the most equitable way of meeting this expenditure. 
Article V 
Implementation of the Agreement 
The Director General of the Agency and the Commission of the European Communities may make the arrangements necessary for ensuring satisfactory implementation of this Agreement. 
Article VI 
Notification to the United Nations and filing and recording 
1. In accordance with its Agreement with the United Nations, the Agency shall inform the United Nations forthwith of the terms of this Agreement. 
2. On the coming into force of this Agreement in accordance with the provisions of Article VIII, the Agency shall communicate it to the Secretary-General of the United Nations for filing and recording. 
Article VII 
Termination of the Agreement 
Either Contracting Party may terminate this Agreement, subject to six months' notice. 
Article VIII 
Entry into force 
This Agreement shall enter into force on the first day of the month following the date on which the Contracting Parties shall have notified each other that the internal procedures necessary to this end have been completed (1). 
Article IX 
Languages 
This Agreement has been drawn up in duplicate, in English and French, both texts being equally authentic. 
In view of the respective needs of the Contracting Parties, the Agency shall prepare official translations of this Agreement into Russian and Spanish, and the Community shall prepare official translations into Danish, Dutch, German and Italian. 
Done at Vienna, 1 December 1975. 
For the European Atomic Energy Community Guido BRUNNER 
For the International Atomic Energy Agency Sigvard EKLUND (1)Such notification having taken place on 1 December 1975, the Agreement will enter into force on 1 January 1976. 
