Protocol to the Partnership and%nbsp%Cooperation Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and Ukraine, of the other part (PCA), on accession of the Czech Republic, the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the republic of Lithuania, the Republic of%nbsp%Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Republic of Poland, the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovak Republic to the PCA and on adjustments to the PCA 
Protocol 
to the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and Ukraine, of the other part (PCA), on accession of the Czech Republic, the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Republic of Poland, the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovak Republic to the PCA and on adjustments to the PCA 
THE KINGDOM OF BELGIUM, 
THE CZECH REPUBLIC, 
THE KINGDOM OF DENMARK, 
THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY, 
THE REPUBLIC OF ESTONIA, 
THE HELLENIC REPUBLIC, 
THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN, 
THE FRENCH REPUBLIC, 
IRELAND, 
THE ITALIAN REPUBLIC, 
THE REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS, 
THE REPUBLIC OF LATVIA, 
THE REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA, 
THE GRAND DUCHY OF LUXEMBOURG, 
THE REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY, 
THE REPUBLIC OF MALTA, 
THE KINGDOM OF THE NETHERLANDS, 
THE REPUBLIC OF AUSTRIA, 
THE REPUBLIC OF POLAND, 
THE PORTUGUESE REPUBLIC, 
THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA, 
THE SLOVAK REPUBLIC, 
THE REPUBLIC OF FINLAND, 
THE KINGDOM OF SWEDEN, 
THE UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN AND NORTHERN IRELAND, 
hereinafter referred to as the "Member States", represented by the Council of the European Union, and 
THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITY AND THE EUROPEAN ATOMIC ENERGY COMMUNITY, 
hereinafter referred to as "the Communities", represented by the Council of the European Union and the European Commission, 
of the one part, and 
UKRAINE 
of the other part, 
hereinafter referred to as "Parties" for the purposes of this Protocol, 
HAVING REGARD TO the provisions of the Treaty between the Kingdom of Belgium, the Kingdom of Denmark, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Hellenic Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the French Republic, Ireland, the Italian Republic, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Austria, the Portuguese Republic, the Republic of Finland, the Kingdom of Sweden and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland (Member States of the European Union), and the Czech Republic, the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Republic of Poland, the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovak Republic concerning the accession of the Czech Republic, the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Republic of Poland, the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovak Republic to the European Union, which was signed in Athens on 16 April 2003 and will enter into force on 1 May 2004, 
CONSIDERING the new situation in relations between Ukraine and the European Union arising from the accession to the European Union of 10 new Member States, which opens opportunities and brings about challenges for the cooperation between Ukraine and the European Union, 
TAKING INTO ACCOUNT the desire of the Parties to ensure the attainment and implementation of the objectives and principles of the PCA, 
HAVE AGREED AS FOLLOWS: 
Article 1 
The Czech Republic, the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Republic of Poland, the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovak Republic shall be Parties to the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement, establishing a partnership between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and Ukraine, of the other part, signed in Luxembourg on 14 June 1994 and which entered into force on 1 March 1998 (hereinafter the Agreement) and shall respectively adopt and take note, in the same manner as other Member States of the Community, of the texts of the Agreement, and of the Joint Declarations, Declarations and Exchanges of Letters annexed to the Final Act signed on the same date and the Protocol to the Agreement of 10 April 1997 that entered into force on 12 October 2000. 
Article 2 
1. To take account of recent institutional developments within the European Union, the Parties agree that following the expiry of the Treaty establishing the European Coal and Steel Community, existing provisions in the Agreement referring to the European Coal and Steel Community shall be deemed to refer to the European Community which has taken over all rights and obligations contracted by the European Coal and Steel Community. 
2. To take account of the institutional developments that have taken place in the international trading system of the GATT-WTO, the Parties agree that the existing references to the GATT throughout the text of the Agreement shall be deemed to refer to the GATT 1994, and the provision "Ukraine's accession to the GATT" shall be understood as "Ukraine's accession to the WTO". 
3. To take account of the development of the treaty base of the European Energy Charter, the Parties agree that existing references to the European Energy Charter throughout the text of the Agreement shall be considered to include references to the Energy Charter Treaty and to the Energy Charter Protocol on Energy Efficiency and Related Environmental Aspects. 
Article 3 
This Protocol shall form an integral part of the Agreement. 
Article 4 
1. This Protocol shall be approved by the Communities, by the Council of the European Union on behalf of the Member States and by Ukraine in accordance with their own procedures. 
2. The Parties shall notify each other of the completion of the corresponding procedures referred to in the preceding paragraph. The instruments of approval shall be deposited with the General Secretariat of the Council of the European Union. 
Article 5 
1. This Protocol shall enter into force on the same day as the Treaty on Accession provided that all the instruments of approval of this Protocol have been deposited before that date. 
2. Where not all instruments of approval of this Protocol have been deposited before that date, this Protocol shall enter into force on the first day of the first month following the date of the deposit of the last instrument of approval. 
3. Where not all instruments of approval of this Protocol have been deposited before 1 May 2004, this Protocol shall apply provisionally with effect from 1 May 2004. 
Article 6 
The texts of the Agreement, the Final Act and all documents annexed to it, as well as the Protocol to the Agreement of 10 April 1997, are drawn up in the Czech, Estonian, Hungarian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Maltese, Polish, Slovak and Slovene languages. 
They are annexed [1] to this Protocol and are equally authentic with the texts in the other languages in which the Agreement, the Final Act and the documents annexed to it, as well as the Protocol to the Agreement of 10 April 1997 are drawn up. 
Article 7 
This Protocol is drawn up in duplicate in the Czech, Danish, Dutch, English, Estonian, Finnish, French, German, Greek, Hungarian, Italian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Maltese, Polish, Portuguese, Slovak, Slovene, Spanish, Swedish and Ukrainian languages, each of these texts being equally authentic. 
Hecho en Dublín, el veintinueve de abril de dos mil cuatro. 
V Dublinu dne dvacátého devátého dubna dva tisíce čtyři. 
Udfærdiget i Dublin den niogtyvende april to tusind og fire. 
Geschehen zu Dublin am neunundzwanzigsten April zweitausendundvier. 
Kahe tuhande neljanda aasta aprillikuu kahekümne üheksandal päeval Dublinis. 
Έγινε στο Δουβλίνο, στις είκοσι εννέα Απριλίου δύο χιλιάδες τέσσερα. 
Done at Dublin on the twenty-ninth day of April in the year two thousand and four. 
Fait à Dublin, le vingt-neuf avril deux mille quatre. 
Fatto a Dublino, addì ventinove aprile duemilaquattro. 
Dublinā, divi tūkstoši ceturtā gada divdesmit devītajā aprīlī. 
Priimta du tūkstančiai ketvirtų metų balandžio dvidešimt devintą dieną Dubline. 
Kelt Dublinban, a kétezer-negyedik év április havának huszonkilencedik napján. 
Magħmul f' Dublin fid-disgħa u għoxrin jum ta' April tas-sena elfejn u erbgħa. 
Gedaan te Dublin, de negenentwintigste april tweeduizendvier. 
Sporządzono w Dublinie, dnia dwudziestego dziewiątego kwietnia roku dwa tysiące czwartego. 
Feito em Dublim, em vinte e nove de Abril de dois mil e quatro. 
V Dubline dvadsiatehodeviateho apríla dvetisícštyri. 
V Dublinu, dne devetindvajsetega aprila leta dva tisoč štiri. 
Tehty Dublinissa kahdentenakymmenentenäyhdeksäntenä päivänä huhtikuuta vuonna kaksituhattaneljä. 
Som skedde i Dublin den tjugonionde april tjugohundrafyra. 
Вчинено у Дубліні, двадцять дев'ятого квітня дві тисячі четвертого року. 
Por los Estados miembros 
Za členské státy 
For medlemsstaterne 
Für die Mitgliedstaaten 
Liikmesriikide nimel 
Για τα κράτη μέλη 
For the Member States 
Pour les États membres 
Per gli Stati membri 
Dalībvalstu vārdā 
Valstybių narių vardu 
A tagállamok részéről 
Għall-Istati Membri 
Voor de lidstaten 
W imieniu Państw Członkowskich 
Pelos Estados-Membros 
Za členské štáty 
Za države članice 
Jäsenvaltioiden puolesta 
På medlemsstaternas vägnar 
За Держави-Чпени 
+++++ TIFF +++++ 
Por las Comunidades Europeas 
Za Evropská společenství 
For De Europæiske Fællesskaber 
Für die Europäischen Gemeinschaften 
Euroopa ühenduste nimel 
Για τις Ευρωπαϊκές Κοινότητες 
For the European Communities 
Pour les Communautés européennes 
Per le Comunità europee 
Eiropas Kopienu vārdā 
Europos Bendrijų vardu 
Az Európai Közösségek részéről 
Għall-Komunitajiet Ewropej 
Voor de Europese Gemeenschappen 
W imieniu Wspólnot Europejskich 
Pelas Comunidades Europeias 
Za Európske spoločenstvá 
Za Evropske skupnosti 
Euroopan yhteisöjen puolesta 
På Europeiska gemenskapernas vägnar 
За Европейські Співтовариства 
+++++ TIFF +++++ 
+++++ TIFF +++++ 
Por Ucrania 
Za Ukrajinu 
For Ukraine 
Für die Ukraine 
Ukraina nimel 
Για την Ουκρανία 
For Ukraine 
Pour l'Ukraine 
Per l'Ucraina 
Ukrainas vārdā 
Ukrainos vardu 
Ukrajna részéről 
Għall-Ukrajna 
Voor Oekraïne 
W imieniu Ukrainy 
Pela Ucrânia 
Za Ukrajinu 
Za Ukrajino 
Ukrainan puolesta 
På Ukrainas vägnar 
За Україну 
+++++ TIFF +++++ 
[1] The Czech, Estonian, Hungarian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Maltese, Polish, Slovak and Slovenian versions of the Agreement shall be published in the special edition of the Official Journal at a later date. 
-------------------------------------------------- 
