Additional Protocol 
to the Europe Agreement establishing an association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and Romania, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Czech Republic, the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Republic of Poland, the Republic of Slovenia, and the Slovak Republic to the European Union 
THE KINGDOM OF BELGIUM, 
THE CZECH REPUBLIC, 
THE KINGDOM OF DENMARK, 
THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY, 
THE REPUBLIC OF ESTONIA, 
THE HELLENIC REPUBLIC, 
THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN, 
THE FRENCH REPUBLIC, 
IRELAND, 
THE ITALIAN REPUBLIC, 
THE REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS, 
THE REPUBLIC OF LATVIA, 
THE REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA, 
THE GRAND DUCHY OF LUXEMBOURG, 
THE REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY, 
THE REPUBLIC OF MALTA, 
THE KINGDOM OF THE NETHERLANDS, 
THE REPUBLIC OF AUSTRIA, 
THE REPUBLIC OF POLAND, 
THE PORTUGUESE REPUBLIC, 
THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA, 
THE SLOVAK REPUBLIC, 
THE REPUBLIC OF FINLAND, 
THE KINGDOM OF SWEDEN, 
THE UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN AND NORTHERN IRELAND, 
Contracting Parties to the Treaty establishing the European Community and the Treaty establishing the European Atomic Energy Community, hereinafter referred to as "Member States" represented by the Council of the European Union, and 
the EUROPEAN COMMUNITY and the EUROPEAN ATOMIC ENERGY COMMUNITY, hereinafter referred to as "the Community" represented by the Council of the European Union and the Commission of the European Communities, 
of the one part, and 
ROMANIA, 
of the other part, 
HAVING REGARD TO the accession of the Czech Republic, the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Republic of Poland, the Republic of Slovenia, and the Slovak Republic to the European Union and thereby to the Community on 1 May 2004; 
HAVING REGARD TO the Europe Agreement establishing an association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and Romania, of the other part (hereinafter referred to as the Europe Agreement), which was signed in Brussels on 1 February 1993 and entered into force on 1 February 1995; 
HAVING REGARD TO the Treaty concerning the accession of the Czech Republic, the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Republic of Poland, the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovak Republic to the European Union (hereinafter referred to as the Treaty of Accession), signed in Athens on 16 April 2003 and entered into force on 1 May 2004; 
HAVE AGREED AS FOLLOWS: 
SECTION I 
CONTRACTING PARTIES 
Article 1 
The Czech Republic, the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Republic of Poland, the Republic of Slovenia, and the Slovak Republic (hereinafter referred to as "the new Member States") shall be Parties to the Europe Agreement establishing an association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and Romania, of the other part, signed in Brussels on 1 February 1993 and entered into force on 1 February 1995 (hereinafter referred to as "the Europe Agreement") and shall respectively adopt and take note, in the same manner as the other Member States of the Community, of the texts of the Europe Agreement, as well as of the Agreements in the form of an Exchange of Letters, the Joint Declarations, and the Unilateral Declarations annexed to the Final Act signed on the same date. 
EXPIRY OF THE ECSC TREATY 
Article 2 
To take account of recent institutional developments within the European Union, the Parties agree that, following expiry of the Treaty establishing the European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC), existing provisions in the Europe Agreement referring to the European Coal and Steel Community shall be deemed to refer to the European Community, which has taken over all rights and obligations contracted by the European Coal and Steel Community. 
SECTION II 
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS 
Article 3 
Basic agricultural products 
The arrangements for import into the Community applicable to certain agricultural products originating in Romania as set out in Annexes A(a) and A(b) and the arrangements for import into Romania applicable to certain agricultural products originating in the Community, as set out in Annexes B(a) and B(b) to this Protocol, shall replace those set out in the Europe Agreement, as amended by the Protocol adjusting the trade aspects of the Europe Agreement establishing an association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and Romania, of the other part, to take account of the outcome of negotiations between the parties on new mutual agricultural concessions [1]. 
SECTION III 
RULES OF ORIGIN 
Article 4 
Protocol 4 [2], referred to in Article 35 (Rules of Origin), shall be amended as follows: 
1. Article 3(1) shall be replaced by the following: 
"1. Without prejudice to the provisions of Article 2(1), products shall be considered as originating in the Community if such products are obtained there, incorporating materials originating in Romania, Switzerland (including Liechtenstein) (1), Iceland, Norway, Bulgaria, Turkey (2), or in the Community in accordance with the provisions of the Protocol on rules of origin annexed to the Agreements between the Community and each of these countries, provided that the working or processing carried out in the Community goes beyond the operations referred to in Article 7. It shall not be necessary that such materials have undergone sufficient working or processing."; 
2. Article 4(1) shall be replaced by the following: 
"1. Without prejudice to the provisions of Article 2(2), products shall be considered as originating in Romania if such products are obtained there, incorporating materials originating in Romania, Switzerland (including Liechtenstein) (3), Iceland, Norway, Bulgaria, Turkey (4), or in the Community in accordance with the provisions of the Protocol on rules of origin annexed to the Agreements between Romania and each of these countries, provided that the working or processing carried out in Romania goes beyond the operations referred to in Article 7. It shall not be necessary that such materials have undergone sufficient working or processing."; 
3. Article 18(4) shall be replaced by the following: 
(…) 
"Movement certificates EUR.1 issued retrospectively must be endorsed with one of the following phrases: 
ES "EXPEDIDO A POSTERIORI" 
CZ "VYSTAVENO DODATEČNĚ" 
DA "UDSTEDT EFTERFØLGENDE" 
DE "NACHTRÄGLICH AUSGESTELLT" 
ET "VÄLJA ANTUD TAGASIULATUVALT" 
EL "ΕΚΔΟΘΕΝ ΕΚ ΤΩΝ ΥΣΤΕΡΩΝ" 
EN "ISSUED RETROSPECTIVELY" 
FR "DÉLIVRÉ A POSTERIORI" 
IT "RILASCIATO A POSTERIORI" 
LV "IZSNIEGTS RETROSPEKTĪVI" 
LT "IŠDUOTAS ATGALINE DATA" 
HU "KIADVA VISSZAMENŐLEGES HATÁLLYAL" 
MT "MAĦRUĠ RETROSPETTIVAMENT" 
NL "AFGEGEVEN A POSTERIORI" 
PL "WYSTAWIONE RETROSPEKTYWNIE" 
PT "EMITIDO A POSTERIORI" 
SL "IZDANO NAKNADNO" 
SK "VYDANÉ DODATOCNE" 
FI "ANNETTU JÄLKIKÄTEEN" 
SV "UTFÄRDAT I EFTERHAND" 
RO "EMIS A POSTERIORI"". 
4. Article 19(2) shall be replaced by the following: 
(…) 
"The duplicate issued in this way must be endorsed with one of the following words: 
ES "DUPLICADO" 
CZ "DUPLIKÁT" 
DA "DUPLIKAT" 
DE "DUPLIKAT" 
ET "DUPLIKAAT" 
EL "ΑΝΤΙΓΡΑΦΟ" 
EN "DUPLICATE" 
FR "DUPLICATA" 
IT "DUPLICATO" 
LV "DUBLIKĀTS" 
LT "DUBLIKATAS" 
HU "MÁSODLAT" 
MT "DUPLIKAT" 
NL "DUPLICAAT" 
PL "DUPLIKAT" 
PT "SEGUNDA VIA" 
SL "DVOJNIK" 
SK "DUPLIKÁT" 
FI "KAKSOISKAPPALE" 
SV "DUPLIKAT" 
RO "DUPLICAT"". 
5. Annex IV shall be replaced by the following: 
(…) 
"Spanish version 
El exportador de los productos incluidos en el presente documento (autorización aduanera no... (1).) declara que, salvo indicación en sentido contrario, estos productos gozan de un origen preferencial … (2). 
Czech version 
Vývozce výrobků uvedených v tomto dokumentu (číslo povolení … (1) prohlašuje, že kromě zřetelně označených, mají tyto výrobky preferenční původ v … (2). 
Danish version 
Eksportøren af varer, der er omfattet af nærværende dokument, (toldmyndighedernes tilladelse nr. ... (1)), erklærer, at varerne, medmindre andet tydeligt er angivet, har præferenceoprindelse i ... (2). 
German version 
Der Ausführer (Ermächtigter Ausführer; Bewilligungs-Nr. ... (1)) der Waren, auf die sich dieses Handelspapier bezieht, erklärt, dass diese Waren, soweit nicht anders angegeben, präferenzbegünstigte ... (2) Ursprungswaren sind. 
Estonian version 
Käesoleva dokumendiga hõlmatud toodete eksportija (Maksu-ja Tolliameti kinnitus nr.... (1)) deklareerib, et need tooted on... (2) sooduspäritoluga, välja arvatud juhul kui on selgelt näidatud teisiti. 
Greek version 
Ο εξαγωγέας των προϊόντων που καλύπτονται από το παρόν έγγραφο (άδεια τελωνείου υπ'αριθ.... (1)) δηλώνει ότι, εκτός εάν δηλώνεται σαφώς άλλως, τα προϊόντα αυτά είναι προτιμησιακής καταγωγής... (2). 
English version 
The exporter of the products covered by this document (customs authorization No ... (1)) declares that, except where otherwise clearly indicated, these products are of ... (2) preferential origin. 
French version 
L'exportateur des produits couverts par le présent document (autorisation douanière no... (1)) déclare que, sauf indication claire du contraire, ces produits ont l'origine préférentielle... (2). 
Italian version 
L'esportatore delle merci contemplate nel presente documento (autorizzazione doganale n... (1)) dichiara che, salvo indicazione contraria, le merci sono di origine preferenziale... (2). 
Latvian version 
Eksportētājs produktiem, kuri ietverti šajā dokumentā (muitas pilnvara Nr. … (1)), deklarē, ka, iznemot tur, kur ir citādi skaidri noteikts, šiem produktiem ir priekšrocību izcelsme no … (2). 
Lithuanian version 
Šiame dokumente išvardintų prekių eksportuotojas (muitinès liudijimo Nr … (1)) deklaruoja, kad, jeigu kitaip nenurodyta, tai yra… (2) preferencinès kilmés prekés. 
Hungarian version 
A jelen okmányban szereplő áruk exportőre (vámfelhatalmazási szám: … (1)) kijelentem, hogy eltérő jelzés hianyában az áruk kedvezményes … (2) származásúak. 
Maltese version 
L-esportatur tal-prodotti koperti b'dan id-dokument (awtorizzazzjoni tad-dwana nru. …(1)) jiddikjara li, ħlief fejn indikat b'mod ċar li mhux hekk, dawn il-prodotti huma ta' oriġini preferenzjali …(2). 
Dutch version 
De exporteur van de goederen waarop dit document van toepassing is (douanevergunning nr... (1)), verklaart dat, behoudens uitdrukkelijke andersluidende vermelding, deze goederen van preferentiële... (2) oorsprong zijn . 
Polish version 
Eksporter produktów objętych tym dokumentem (upoważnienie władz celnych nr … (1)) deklaruje, że z wyjątkiem gdzie jest to wyraźnie określone, produkty te mają … (2) preferencyjne pochodzenie. 
Portuguese version 
O exportador dos produtos cobertos pelo presente documento (autorização aduaneira no... (1)), declara que, salvo expressamente indicado em contrário, estes produtos são de origem preferencial... (2). 
Slovenian version 
Izvoznik blaga, zajetega s tem dokumentom (pooblastilo carinskih organov št. … (1)) izjavlja, da, razen če ni drugače jasno navedeno, ima to blago preferencialno … (2) poreklo. 
Slovak version 
Vývozca výrobkov uvedených v tomto dokumente (číslo povolenia … (1)) vyhlasuje, že okrem zreteľne označených, majú tieto výrobky preferenčný pôvod v … (2). 
Finnish version 
Tässä asiakirjassa mainittujen tuotteiden viejä (tullin lupa n: o... (1)) ilmoittaa, että nämä tuotteet ovat, ellei toisin ole selvästi merkitty, etuuskohteluun oikeutettuja... (2) alkuperätuotteita . 
Swedish version 
Exportören av de varor som omfattas av detta dokument (tullmyndighetens tillstånd nr ... (1)) försäkrar att dessa varor, om inte annat tydligt markerats, har förmånsberättigande ... ursprung (2). 
Romanian version 
Exportatorul produselor ce fac obiectul acestui document (autorizaţia vamalā nr. … (1)) declarā cā, exceptând cazul în care în mod expres este indicat altfel, aceste produse sunt de origine preferenţialā … (2)." 
(…) 
SECTION IV 
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY UNION 
Article 5 
The text of Article 86 on monetary policy shall be replaced with the following: 
SECTION V 
TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS 
Article 6 
Proof of origin and administrative cooperation [3] 
1. Proofs of origin properly issued by either Romania or a new Member State in the framework of preferential agreements applied between them shall be accepted in the respective countries provided that: 
(a) the acquisition of such origin confers preferential tariff treatment on the basis of the preferential tariff measures contained in the Europe Agreement; 
(b) the proof of origin and the transport documents were issued no later than the day before the date of accession; 
(c) the proof of origin is submitted to the customs authorities within the period of four months from the date of accession. 
Where goods were declared for importation in either Romania or a new Member State, prior to the date of accession, under preferential agreements or autonomous arrangements applied between Romania and that new Member State at that time, proof of origin issued retrospectively under those agreements or arrangements may also be accepted provided that it is submitted to the customs authorities within the period of four months from the date of accession. 
2. Romania and the new Member States are authorised to retain the authorisations with which the status of "approved exporters" has been granted in the framework of preferential agreements or autonomous arrangements applied between them, provided that: 
(a) such a provision is also provided for in the agreement concluded prior to the date of accession between Romania and the Community; and 
(b) the approved exporter apply the rules of origin in force under that agreement. 
These authorisations shall be replaced no later than one year after the date of accession, by new authorisations issued under the conditions of the Europe Agreement. 
3. Requests for subsequent verification of proof of origin issued under the preferential agreements or autonomous arrangements referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 above shall be accepted by the competent customs authorities of either Romania or the Member States for a period of three years after the issue of the proof of origin concerned and may be made by those authorities for a period of three years after acceptance of the proof of origin submitted to those authorities in support of an import declaration. 
Article 7 
Goods en route or in temporary storage 
1. The provisions of the Europe Agreement shall be applied to goods exported from either Romania to one of the new Member States or from one of the new Member States to Romania, which comply with the provisions of Protocol 4 on rules of origin to the Europe Agreement and that on the date of accession are either en route or in temporary storage, in a customs warehouse or in a free zone in Romania or in that new Member State. 
2. Preferential treatment shall be granted in such cases, subject to the submission to the customs authorities of the importing country, within four months of the date of accession, of a proof of origin issued retrospectively by the customs authorities of the exporting country. 
SECTION VI 
GENERAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS 
Article 8 
This Protocol and the Annexes thereto shall form an integral part of the Europe Agreement. 
Article 9 
1. This Protocol shall be approved by the Community, by the Council of the European Union on behalf of the Member States, and by Romania in accordance with their own procedures. 
2. The Parties shall notify each other of the accomplishment of the corresponding procedures referred to in the preceding paragraph. The instruments of approval shall be deposited with the General Secretariat of the Council of the European Union. 
Article 10 
This Protocol shall enter into force on the first day of the first month following the date of the deposit of the last notification of the approval by the Contracting Parties. 
Article 11 
This Protocol is drawn up in duplicate in the Czech, Danish, Dutch, English, Estonian, Finnish, French, German, Greek, Hungarian, Italian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Maltese, Polish, Portuguese, Slovak, Slovene, Spanish, and Swedish languages and the Romanian language, each of these texts being equally authentic. 
Article 12 
The text of the Europe Agreement, including the Annexes and Protocols forming an integral part thereof, and the Final Act together with the declarations annexed thereto shall be drawn up in the Czech, Estonian, Hungarian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Maltese, Polish, Slovak and Slovene languages, and these texts shall be authentic in the same way as the original texts. The Association Council shall approve these texts. 
Hecho en Bruselas, el cuatro de mayo del dos mil cinco. 
V Bruselu dne čtvrtého května dva tisíce pět. 
Udfærdiget i Bruxelles den fjerde maj to tusind og fire. 
Geschehen zu Brüssel am vierten Mai zweitausendfünf. 
Kahe tuhande viienda aasta maikuu neljandal päeval Brüsselis. 
'Εγινε στις Βρυξέλλες, στις τέσσερις Μαΐου δύο χιλιάδες πέντε. 
Done at Brussels on the fourth day of May in the year two thousand and five. 
Fait à Bruxelles, le quatre mai deux mille cinq. 
Fatto a Bruxelles, addì quattro maggio duemilacinque. 
Briselē, divtūkstoš piektā gada ceturtajā maijā. 
Priimta du tūkstančiai penktų metų gegužės ketvirtą dieną Briuselyje. 
Kelt Brüsszelben, a kettőezer ötödik év május negyedik napján. 
Magħmul fi Brussel, fl-erbgħa jum ta' Mejju tas-sena elfejn u ħamsa. 
Gedaan te Brussel, de vierde mei tweeduizend vijf. 
Sporządzono w Brukseli dnia czwartego maja roku dwutysięcznego piątego. 
Feito em Bruxelas, em quatro de Maio de dois mil e cinco. 
V Bruslju, četrtega maja leta dva tisoč pet. 
V Bruseli dňa štvrtého mája dvetisícpäť. 
Tehty Brysselissä neljäntenä päivänä toukokuuta vuonna kaksituhattaviisi. 
Som skedde i Bryssel den fjärde maj tjugohundrafem. 
Încheiat la Bruxelles, în ziua de patru mai, anul două mii cinci. 
Por los Estados miembros 
Za členské státy 
For medlemsstaterne 
Für die Mitgliedstaaten 
Liikmesriikide nimel 
Για τα κράτη μέλη 
For the Member States 
Pour les États membres 
Per gli Stati membri 
Dalībvalstu vārdā 
Valstybių narių vardu 
A tagállamok részéről 
Għall-Istati Membri 
Voor de lidstaten 
W imieniu Państw Członkowskich 
Pelos Estados-Membros 
Za členské štáty 
Za države članice 
Jäsenvaltioiden puolesta 
På medlemsstaternas vägnar 
Pentru Statele Membre 
Por las Comunidades Europeas 
Za Evropská společenství 
For De Europæiske Fællesskaber 
Für die Europäischen Gemeinschaften 
Euroopa ühenduste nimel 
Για τις Ευρωπαϊκές Κοινότητες 
For the European Communities 
Pour les Communautés européennes 
Per le Comunità europee 
Eiropas Kopienu vārdā 
Europos Bendrijų vardu 
Az Európai Közösségek részéről 
Għall-Komunitajiet Ewropej 
Voor de Europese Gemeenschappen 
W imieniu Wspólnot Europejskich 
Pelas Comunidades Europeias 
Za Európske spoločenstvá 
Za Evropske skupnosti 
Euroopan yhteisöjen puolesta 
På europeiska gemenskapernas vägnar 
Pentru Comunităţile Europene 
Por Rumanía 
Za Rumunsko 
For Rumænien 
Für Rumänien 
Rumeenia nimel 
Για τη Ρουμανία 
For Romania 
Pour la Roumanie 
Per la Romania 
Rumānijas vārdā 
Rumunijos vardu 
Románia részéről 
Għar-Rumanija 
Voor Roemenië 
W imieniu Rumunii 
Pela Roménia 
Za Rumunsko 
Za Romunijo 
Romanian puolesta 
För Rumänien 
Pentru România 
[1] OJ L 8, 14.1.2003, p. 22. 
[2] Protocol 4 of the Europe Agreement establishing an association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and Romania, of the other part (OJ L 357, 31.12.1994, p. 2), as last amended by Decision No 2/2001 of the EU-Romania Association Council of 25 September 2003. 
[3] Referred to in the Act of Accession, Annex IV(5), paragraphs 3 to 5. 
-------------------------------------------------- 
