PARCOM Decision 96/1 on the phasing-out of the use of hexachloroethane in the non-ferrous metal industry 
PARCOM DECISION 96/1 on the phasing-out of the use of hexachloroethane in the non-ferrous metal industry 
RECALLING PARCOM Decision 92/4 on the phasing-out of the use of hexachloroethane (HCE) in the secondary aluminium industry and in the primary aluminium industry with integrated foundries; 
RECALLING PARCOM Decision 93/1 on the phasing-out of the use of hexachloroethane (HCE) in the non-ferrous metal industry; 
CONSIDERING that organohalogen compounds which are toxic, persistent and liable to bioaccumulate are a cause of marine pollution requiring urgent measures; 
CONSIDERING that these substances are on the Paris Convention priority list; 
CONSIDERING that hexachloroethane has been used till now in the non-ferrous metal industry, mainly as a degasifier in magnesium and copper foundries; 
CONSIDERING that other systems and alternative substances already exist, capable of attaining similar, or even superior, technical efficiency and performance and that some of the alternative techniques involve less ecological risk; 
CONSIDERING that limited exemptions are necessary for some applications in the production of magnesium and aluminium alloys to give small and medium-sized foundries a reasonable period for adaptation, 
THE CONTRACTING PARTIES TO THE CONVENTION FOR THE PREVENTION OF MARINE POLLUTION FROM LAND-BASED SOURCES DECIDE THAT: 
1. Programmes and measures 
1.1. All uses of HCE in the aluminium industry (including integrated and non-integrated foundries casting aluminium) shall be phased out as far as possible by 31 December 1996 and at the latest by 31 December 1997. 
1.2. All uses of HCE in other non-ferrous metal industry shall be phased out by 31 December 1997. 
1.3. As exceptions to this Decision, hexachloroethane may be used: 
(a) for grain refining in the production of the magnesium alloys AZ81, AZ91 and AZ92; 
(b) in non-integrated aluminium foundries producing specialised castings for applications requiring high quality and high safety standards and where consumption is less than 1,5 kg of hexachloroethane per day on average. 
The need for these exceptions will be reviewed in 1998. 
1.4. Potential alternative technologies should be assessed by competent authorities for their risks and benefits. 
2. Entry into force 
2.1. This Decision replaces PARCOM Decisions 92/4 and 93/1 with effect from the date when the Secretariat has received confirmation from Contracting Parties holding at least three quarters of the total number of votes in the Paris Commission that they are in a position to proceed. 
2.2. That replacement has effect for each Contracting Party from: 
(a) the date mentioned in subparagraph 2.1, or 
(b) the date when it delivers such a notification to the Secretariat, 
whichever is later. 
3. Implementation reports 
3.1. Implementation reports on this Decision should be made to the appropriate OSPAR working group meeting preceding the meeting of OSPAR 1999. When reporting, the format as set out in the Appendix should be used to the extent possible. 
Appendix 
Implementation reporting format for PARCOM Decision 96/1 on the phasing-out of the use of hexachloroethane in the non-ferrous metal industry 
%gt%START OF GRAPHIC%gt% 
Contracting Party Reservation Not applicable (4) Means of implementation (1) (2) (3) By legislation Administrative action Voluntary agreement 
Belgium 
Denmark 
Finland (5) 
France 
Germany 
Iceland 
Ireland 
Netherlands 
Norway 
Portugal 
Spain 
Sweden 
United Kingdom 
EC 
Luxembourg (6) 
Switzerland (5) 
(1) Give information on specific measures taken to give effect to this Decision. 
(2) Provide information on any special difficulties encountered, such as practical or legal problems, in the implementation of this Decision. 
(3) The reasons for not having fully implemented this Decision should be spelt out clearly and plans for full implementation should be reported. 
(4) State why this Decision is not applicable. 
(5) Contracting State to the OSPAR Convention. 
(6) Signatory to the Paris Convention and the OSPAR Convention. 
%gt%END OF GRAPHIC%gt% 
