Agreement in the form of an exchange of Letters 
with the Government of Canada on the modifications of Annex V and Annex VIII to the Agreement between the European Community and the Government of Canada on sanitary measures to protect public and animal health in respect of trade in live animals and animal products 
A. Letter from the European Community 
Brussels, 7 March 2005 
Sir, 
With reference to Article 16(2) and (3) of the Agreement between the European Community and the Government of Canada on sanitary measures to protect public and animal health in respect of trade in live animals and animal products, 
done at Ottawa on 17 December 1998, hereafter called the Agreement, I have the honour to propose modifications to Annex V and Annex VIII to the Agreement in accordance with the recommendations of the Joint Management Committee established under Article 16(1) of the Agreement, as follows: 
1. The table at point 3 concerning Semen in Annex V to the Agreement is replaced by the table in Appendix I. 
2. The table at point 6 concerning Fresh meat in Annex V to the Agreement is replaced by the table in Appendix II. 
3. Footnote A in Annex V to the Agreement is replaced by the text in Appendix III. 
4. Paragraph 2 of Chapter I of footnote B in Annex V to the Agreement is deleted. 
5. Annex VIII to the Agreement is replaced by the text in Appendix IV. 
I have the honour to propose that if this letter and the Appendices thereto are acceptable to your Government, this letter and your confirmation shall together constitute an agreement to amend the Agreement between the European Community and Canada, which shall enter into force on the date of your reply. 
Please accept, Sir, the assurance of my highest consideration. 
For the European Community 
Robert Madelin 
Director-General for Health and Consumer Protection 
B. Letter from the Government of Canada 
Brussels, 15 March 2005 
Sir, 
I have the honour to acknowledge receipt of your letter of 7 March 2005 which reads as follows: 
"Sir, 
With reference to Article 16(2) and (3) of the Agreement between the European Community and the Government of Canada on sanitary measures to protect public and animal health in respect of trade in live animals and animal products, done at Ottawa on 17 December 1998, hereafter called the Agreement, I have the honour to propose modifications to Annex V and Annex VIII to the Agreement in accordance with the recommendations of the Joint Management Committee established under Article 16(1) of the Agreement, as follows: 
1. The table at point 3 concerning Semen in Annex V to the Agreement is replaced by the table in Appendix I. 
2. The table at point 6 concerning Fresh meat in Annex V to the Agreement is replaced by the table in Appendix II. 
3. Footnote A in Annex V to the Agreement is replaced by the text in Appendix III. 
4. Paragraph 2 of Chapter I of footnote B in Annex V to the Agreement is deleted. 
5. Annex VIII to the Agreement is replaced by the text in Appendix IV. 
I have the honour to propose that if this letter and the Appendices thereto are acceptable to your Government, this letter and your confirmation shall together constitute an agreement to amend the Agreement between the European Community and Canada, which shall enter into force on the date of your reply." 
I have the honour to confirm that the above is acceptable to my Government and that your letter, and this reply and the attached Appendices, which are equally authentic in English and French, together shall constitute an agreement to amend the Agreement between Canada and the European Community, in accordance with your proposal, which shall come into force on the date of this letter. 
Please accept, Sir, the assurances of my highest consideration. 
For the Government of Canada 
Jeremy Kinsman 
Ambassador of the Canadian Mission to the EU 
-------------------------------------------------- 
