Agreement in the form of an Exchange of Letters extending the Protocol setting out, for the period from 1 June 2005 to 31 May 2006 , the fishing opportunities and the financial contribution provided for in the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Government of the Democratic Republic of S%atilde%o Tom%eacute% and Pr%iacute%ncipe on fishing off the coast of S%atilde%o Tom%eacute% and Pr%iacute%ncipe 
Agreement in the form of an Exchange of Letters 
extending the Protocol setting out, for the period from 1 June 2005 to 31 May 2006, the fishing opportunities and the financial contribution provided for in the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Government of the Democratic Republic of São Tomé and Príncipe on fishing off the coast of São Tomé and Príncipe 
A. Letter from the Community 
Sirs, 
I have the honour to confirm that pending negotiations on amendments to be made to the Protocol currently in force ( 1 June 2002 to 31 May 2005) setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the Fisheries Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Government of the Democratic Republic of São Tomé and Príncipe, we agree to the following interim arrangements: 
1. From 1 June 2005 to 31 May 2006 the arrangements applicable over the last three years will continue in operation. 
The Community’s financial contribution under the interim arrangements will correspond to the yearly amount provided for in Article 2 of the Protocol currently in force (EUR 637500). That amount is to be treated entirely as financial compensation and will be paid no later than 31 January 2006. 
The Community will also provide financing of EUR 50000 during the year for an evaluation study on deep-water crab. 
2. During this period, fishing licences will be granted within the limits set in Article 1 of the Protocol currently in force, by means of fees or advances corresponding to those set in point 2 of the Annex to the Protocol. 
I should be obliged if you would acknowledge receipt of this letter and confirm that you are in agreement with its terms. 
Please accept, Sirs, the assurance of my highest consideration. 
On behalf of the Council of the European Union 
B. Letter from the Government of the Democratic Republic of São Tomé and Príncipe 
Sirs, 
I have the honour to acknowledge receipt of your letter of today’s date which reads as follows: 
"I have the honour to confirm that pending negotiations on amendments to be made to the Protocol currently in force ( 1 June 2002 to 31 May 2005) setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the Fisheries Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Government of the Democratic Republic of São Tomé and Príncipe, we agree to the following interim arrangements: 
1. From 1 June 2005 to 31 May 2006 the arrangements applicable over the last three years will continue in operation. 
The Community’s financial contribution under the interim arrangements will correspond to the yearly amount provided for in Article 2 of the Protocol currently in force (EUR 637500). That amount is to be treated entirely as financial compensation and will be paid no later than 31 January 2006. 
The Community will also provide financing of EUR 50000 during the year for an evaluation study on deep-water crab. 
2. During this period, fishing licences will be granted within the limits set in Article 1 of the Protocol currently in force, by means of fees or advances corresponding to those set in point 2 of the Annex to the Protocol." 
I have the honour to confirm that the contents of your letter are acceptable to the Government of the Democratic Republic of São Tomé and Príncipe and that your letter and this one constitute an agreement in accordance with your proposal. 
Please accept, Sirs, the assurance of my highest consideration. 
For the Government of the Democratic Republic of São Tomé and Príncipe 
-------------------------------------------------- 
