Agreement in the form of an exchange of letters 
on the provisional application of the protocol setting out, for the period from 18 January 2005 to 17 January 2011, the fishing opportunities and the financial contribution provided for by the agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Seychelles on fishing off Seychelles 
A. Letter from the Government of the Republic of Seychelles: 
Sir, 
With reference to the Protocol, initialled on 23 September 2004, setting out, for the period from 18 January 2005 to 17 January 2011, the fishing opportunities and the financial contribution, I have the honour to inform you that the Government of the Republic of Seychelles is willing to apply the Protocol provisionally from 18 January 2005 pending its entry into force in accordance with Article 13 thereof, provided that the European Community is prepared to do likewise. 
This is on the understanding that the first instalment of the financial contribution, laid down by Article 2 of the Protocol, must be paid before 30 September 2005. 
I should be grateful if you would confirm the agreement of the European Community to such a provisional application. 
Please accept, Sir, the assurance of my highest consideration. 
For the Government of the Republic of Seychelles 
B. Letter from the European Community 
Sir, 
I have the honour to acknowledge receipt of your letter of today's date which reads as follows: 
"With reference to the Protocol, initialled on 23 September 2004, setting out, for the period from 18 January 2005 to 17 January 2011, the fishing opportunities and the financial contribution, I have the honour to inform you that the Government of the Republic of Seychelles is willing to apply the Protocol provisionally from 18 January 2005 pending its entry into force in accordance with Article 13 thereof, provided that the European Community is prepared to do likewise. 
This is on the understanding that the first instalment of the financial contribution, laid down by Article 2 of the Protocol, must be paid before 30 September 2005. 
I should be grateful if you would confirm the agreement of the European Community to such a provisional application." 
I am pleased to confirm the agreement of the European Community to a provisional application. 
Please accept, Sir, the assurance of my highest consideration. 
For the Council of the European Union 
-------------------------------------------------- 
