Protocol for the adaptation of the trade aspects of the Europe Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and Romania, of the other part, to take into account the accession of the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Finland and the Kingdom of Sweden to the European Union and the results of the agricultural negotiations of the Uruguay Round, including the improvements to the existing preferential regime - Exchange of letters between the European Community and Romania regarding entry prices applied to the import of fruit and vegetables into the Community 
PROTOCOL for the adaptation of the trade aspects of the Europe Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and Romania, of the other part, to take into account the accession of the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Finland and the Kingdom of Sweden to the European Union and the results of the agricultural negotiations of the Uruguay Round, including the improvements to the existing preferential regime 
THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITYS, 
hereinafter referred to as 'the Community` 
of the one part, and 
THE GOVERNMENT OF ROMANIA, 
of the other part, 
WHEREAS the Europe Agreement establishing an association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and Romania, of the other part, hereinafter referred to as 'the Europe Agreement`, was signed in Brussels on 1 February 1993 and entered into force on 1 February 1995; 
WHEREAS the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Finland and the Kingdom of Sweden joined the European Union on 1 January 1995; 
WHEREAS, under the terms of Articles 76, 102 and 128 of the 1994 Act of Accession, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Finland and the Kingdom of Sweden have to apply, as from 1 January 1995, the provisions of the preferential agreements concluded by the Community with certain third countries, among them Romania; 
WHEREAS the Community has adopted, as from 1 January 1995, transitional measures in the form of autonomous tariff quotas taking into account the preferential tariff concessions applied by the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Finland and the Kingdom of Sweden towards Romania, and whereas Romania has adopted as from 1 January 1995, transitional measures in the form of tariff quotas taking into account the preferential tariff regime applied by Romania to the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Finland and the Kingdom of Sweden, notably concerning agricultural and processed agricultural products; 
WHEREAS the commitments of the Community and Romania in the framework of the negotiations of the Uruguay Round require the amendment of the import tariff regimes in the Community and Romania, in particular concerning agricultural and processed agricultural products; 
WHEREAS the accession of the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Finland and the Kingdom of Sweden to the European Union and the implementation of the results of the Uruguay Round are likely to affect the bilateral concessions in the framework of the Europe Agreement, and it is therefore necessary to adapt such Agreement through a protocol for the adaptation of the trade aspects of this Agreement; 
WHEREAS the Council decided by Decision 95/131/EC (1) to apply on a provisional basis from 1 January 1995 the bilateral Agreement which was negotiated by the Commission on behalf of the Community, amending the Additional Protocol on trade in textiles between the Community and Romania to take into account the accession of the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Finland and the Kingdom of Sweden to the European Union; 
WHEREAS the Council decided by Decision 96/224/EC (2), to apply on a provisional basis, from 1 January 1996, the bilateral Agreement which was negotiated by the Commission on behalf of the Community following the review and amendment of the Additional Protocol to the Europe Agreement on trade in textile products between the European Community and Romania, 
HAVE DECIDED to determine by mutual agreement the adaptations to be made on trade provisions of the Agreement following the accession of the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Finland and the Kingdom of Sweden, of the one part, and the entry into force of the results of the Uruguay Round in the agricultural field, of the other part, and to this end have designated as their plenipotentiaries: 
THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITY: 
Manfred SCHEICH 
Ambassador, 
Permanent Representative of the Republic of Austria, 
Chairman of the Permanent Representative Committee 
Günther BURGHARDT 
Director-General of the Directorate-General for External Political Relations of the Commission of the European Communities 
THE GOVERNMENT OF ROMANIA: 
Constantin ENE 
Ambassador extraordinary and plenipotentiary, 
Head of the Romanian Mission to the European Union 
WHO, having exchanged their full powers, found in good and due form, 
HAVE AGREED AS FOLLOWS: 
Article 1 
The Additional Protocol to the Europe Agreement on trade in textile products shall be amended as follows: 
1. the first subparagraph of Article 2(3) shall be replaced by the following: 
'3. The origin of the products covered by this Protocol shall be determined in accordance with the rules of non-preferential origin in force in the Community.`; 
2. Annex II shall be replaced by the text in Annex A to this Protocol; 
3. Article 2(3) of Appendix A shall be replaced by the following: 
'3. The certificate of origin referred to in paragraph 1 shall not be required for the importation of goods covered by a movement certificate EUR.1 or a form EUR.2 issued in conformity with Protocol 4 of the Europe Agreement where it is clear from such documents that Romania may be deemed to be the country of origin under the non-preferential origin rules in force in the Community.`; 
4. the second indent of the second subparagraph of Article 14(2) of Appendix A, shall be amended as follows: 
'- two letters identifying the intended Member State of customs clearance as follows: 
%gt%TABLE%gt% 
`; 
5. the Annex to Appendix A setting out the model for the certificate of origin shall be replaced by the text in Annex B to this Protocol; 
6. the Annex to Appendix A setting out the model for the export licence shall be replaced by the text in Annex C to this Protocol; 
7. the Annex to Appendix C setting out the model for the certificate applicable to certain cottage industry and folklore products shall be replaced by the text in Annex D to this Protocol; 
8. The Annex to Appendix B setting out the quantitative limits for economic outward processing operations shall be replaced by the text in Annex E to this Protocol. 
Article 2 
With regard to processed agricultural products: 
1. the text of Protocol 3 to the Europe Agreement shall be replaced by the text in Annex F to this Protocol; 
2. Article 9(1) of the Europe Agreement shall be replaced by the following: 
'1. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to products originating in the Community and in Romania listed in Chapters 25 to 97 of the Combined Nomenclature, with the exception of the products listed in Annex I and Protocol 3`; 
3. Article 18 of, and Annex X to, the Europe Agreement shall be deleted; 
4. Article 19(2) of the Europe Agreement shall be replaced by the following: 
'2. The term %quot%agricultural products%quot% means the products listed in Chapters 1 to 24 of the Combined Nomenclature and the products listed in Annex I and Protocol 3, but excluding fishery products as defined by Regulation (EEC) No 3687/91.` 
Article 3 
With regard to basic agricultural products: 
1. Annexes XIa and XIb and Annexes XIIa, XIIb and XIII to the Europe Agreement shall be replaced by the texts in Annexes G and H to this Protocol. 
2. Article 21(2) of the Europe Agreement shall be replaced by the following paragraph: 
'2. The preferential arrangements granted for imports into the Community of products originating in Romania are set out in Annex XI.`; 
3. Article 21(4) of the Europe Agreement shall be replaced by the following paragraph: 
'4. The preferential arrangements granted for imports into Romania of products originating in the Community are set out in Annex XII.` 
Article 4 
The Annexes to this Protocol shall form an integral part thereof. This Protocol shall form an integral part of the Europe Agreement. 
Article 5 
This Protocol shall be approved by the Community and the Government of Romania in accordance with their own procedures. The Contracting Parties shall take the necessary measures to implement this Protocol. 
Article 6 
This Protocol shall enter into force on the first day of the first month following the date of the Contracting Parties' notification of the accomplishment of the corresponding procedures according to Article 5. 
Article 7 
This Protocol shall be drawn up in duplicate in the Danish, Dutch, English, Finnish, French, German, Greek, Italian, Portuguese, Spanish, Swedish and Romanian languages, each of those texts being equally authentic. 
Hecho en Bruselas, el trece de octubre de mil novecientos noventa y ocho. 
Udfærdiget i Bruxelles den trettende oktober nitten hundrede og otteoghalvfems. 
Geschehen zu Brüssel am dreizehnten Oktober neunzehnhundertachtundneunzig. 
¸ãéíå óôéò ÂñõîÝëëåò, óôéò äÝêá ôñåéò Ïêôùâñßïõ ÷ßëéá åííéáêüóéá åíåíÞíôá ïêôþ. 
Done at Brussels on the thirteenth day of October in the year one thousand nine hundred and ninety-eight. 
Fait à Bruxelles, le treize octobre mil neuf cent quatre-vingt-dix-huit. 
Fatto a Bruxelles, addì tredici ottobre millenovecentonovantotto. 
Gedaan te Brussel, de dertiende oktober negentienhonderd achtennegentig. 
Feito em Bruxelas, em treze de Outubro de mil novecentos e noventa e oito. 
Tehty Brysselissä kolmantenatoista päivänä lokakuuta vuonna tuhatyhdeksänsataayhdeksänkymmentäkahdeksan. 
Som skedde i Bryssel den trettonde oktober nittonhundranittioåtta. 
Intocmit la Bruxelles, la treisprezece octombrie, anul una mie noua sute nouazeci si opt. 
Por la Comunidad Europea 
For Det Europæiske Fællesskab 
Für die Europäische Gemeinschaft 
Ãéá ôçí ÅõñùðáúêÞ Êïéíüôçôá 
For the European Community 
Pour la Communauté européenne 
Per la Comunità europea 
Voor de Europese Gemeenschap 
Pela Comunidade Europeia 
Euroopan yhteisön puolesta 
På Europeiska gemenskapens vägnar 
%gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% 
Pentru Guvernul României 
%gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% 
(1) OJ L 94, 26.4.1995, p. 1. 
(2) OJ L 81, 30.3.1996, p. 264. 
ANNEX A 
'ANNEX II 
%gt%TABLE%gt% 
` 
ANNEX B 
'(Annex I to Appendix A) 
%gt%START OF GRAPHIC%gt% 
(1) Show net weight (kg) and also quantity in the unit prescribed for category where other than net weight - Indiquer le poids net en kilogrammes ainsi que la quantité dans l'unité prévue pour la catégorie si cette unité n'est pas le poids net. (2) In the currency of the sale contract - Dans la monnaie du contrat de vente. 1 Exporter (name, full address, country) Exportateur (nom, adresse complète, pays) 5 Consignee (name, full address, country) Destinataire (nom, adresse complète, pays) ORIGINAL 2No 3 Quota year Année contingentaire 4 Category number Numéro de catégorie CERTIFICATE OF ORIGIN (Textile products) CERTIFICAT D'ORIGINE (Produits textiles) 6 Country of origin Pays d'origine 7 Country of destination Pays de destination 8 Place and date of shipment - Means of transport Lieu et date d'embarquement - Moyen de transport 9 Supplementary details Données supplémentaires 10 Marks and numbers - Number and kind of packages - DESCRIPTION OF GOODS Marques et numéros - Nombre et nature des colis - DÉSIGNATION DES MARCHANDISES 11 Quantity (1) Quantité (1) 12 FOB value (2) Valeur fob (2) 13 CERTIFICATION BY THE COMPETENT AUTHORITY - VISA DE L'AUTORITÉ COMPÉTENTE I, the undersigned, certify that the goods described above originated in the country shown in box No 6, in accordance with the provisions in force in the European Community. Je soussigné certifie que les marchandises désignées ci-dessus sont originaires du pays figurant dans la case 6, conformément aux dispositions en vigueur dans la Communauté européenne. 14 Competent authority (name, full address, country) Autorité compétente (nom, adresse complète, pays) At - À . , on - le . (Signature) (Stamp - Cachet)%gt%END OF GRAPHIC%gt% 
` 
ANNEX C 
'(Annex II to Appendix A) 
%gt%START OF GRAPHIC%gt% 
(1) Show net weight (kg) and also quantity in the unit prescribed for category where other than net weight - Indiquer le poids net en kilogrammes ainsi que la quantité dans l'unité prévue pour la catégorie si cette unité n'est pas le poids net. (2) In the currency of the sale contract - Dans la monnaie du contrat de vente. 1 Exporter (name, full address, country) Exportateur (nom, adresse complète, pays) 5 Consignee (name, full address, country) Destinataire (nom, adresse complète, pays) ORIGINAL 2No 3 Quota year Année contingentaire 4 Category number Numéro de catégorie EXPORT LICENCE (Textile products) LICENCE D'EXPORTATION (Produits textiles) 6 Country of origin Pays d'origine 7 Country of destination Pays de destination 8 Place and date of shipment - Means of transport Lieu et date d'embarquement - Moyen de transport 9 Supplementary details Données supplémentaires 10 Marks and numbers - Number and kind of packages - DESCRIPTION OF GOODS Marques et numéros - Nombre et nature des colis - DÉSIGNATION DES MARCHANDISES 11 Quantity (1) Quantité (1) 12 FOB value (2) Valeur fob (2) 13 CERTIFICATION BY THE COMPETENT AUTHORITY - VISA DE L'AUTORITÉ COMPÉTENTE I, the undersigned, certify that the goods described above have been charged against the quantitative limit established for the year shown in box No 3 in respect of the category shown in box No 4 by the provisions regulating trade in textile products with the European Community. Je soussigné certifie que les marchandises désignées ci-dessus ont été imputées sur la limite quantitative fixée pour l'année indiquée dans la case 3 pour la catégorie désignée dans la case 4 dans le cadre des dispositions régissant les échanges de produits textiles avec la Communauté européenne. 14 Competent authority (name, full address, country) Autorité compétente (nom, adresse complète, pays) At - À . , on - le . (Signature) (Stamp - Cachet)%gt%END OF GRAPHIC%gt% 
` 
ANNEX D 
'(Annex to Appendix C) 
%gt%START OF GRAPHIC%gt% 
(1) In the currency of the sale contract - Dans la monnaie du contrat de vente. (2) Delete as appropriate - Biffer la (les) mention(s) inutile(s). 1 Exporter (name, full address, country) Exportateur (nom, adresse complète, pays) 3 Consignee (name, full address, country) Destinataire (nom, adresse complète, pays) ORIGINAL 2No CERTIFICATE in regard to HANDLOOMS, TEXTILE HANDICRAFTS and TRADITIONAL TEXTILE PRODUCTS, OF THE COTTAGE INDUSTRY, issued in conformity with and under the conditions regulating trade in textile products with the European Community. CERTIFICAT relatif aux TISSUS, TISSÉS SUR MÉTIERS À MAIN, aux PRODUITS TEXTILES FAITS À LA MAIN, et aux PRODUITS TEXTILES RELEVANT DU FOLKLORE TRADITIONNEL, DE FABRICATION ARTISANALE, délivré en conformité avec et sous les conditions régissant les échanges de produits textiles avec la Communauté européenne. 4 Country of origin Pays d'origine 5 Country of destination Pays de destination 6 Place and date of shipment - Means of transport Lieu et date d'embarquement - Moyen de transport 7 Supplementary details Données supplémentaires 8 Marks and numbers - Number and kind of packages - DESCRIPTION OF GOODS Marques et numéros - Nombre et nature des colis - DÉSIGNATION DES MARCHANDISES 9 Quantity Quantité 10 FOB value (1) Valeur fob (1) 11 CERTIFICATION BY THE COMPETENT AUTHORITY - VISA DE L'AUTORITÉ COMPÉTENTE I, the undersigned, certify that the consignment described above includes only the following textile products of the cottage industry of the country shown in box No 4: (a) fabrics woven on looms operated solely by hand or foot (handlooms) (2); (b) garments or other textile articles obtained manually from the fabrics described under (a) and sewn solely by hand without the aid of any machine (handicrafts) (2); (c) traditional folklore handicraft textile products made by hand, as defined in the list agreed between the European Community and the country shown in box No 4. Je soussigné certifie que l'envoi décrit ci-dessus contient exclusivement les produits textiles suivants relevant de la fabrication artisanale du pays figurant dans la case 4: (a) tissus tissés sur des métiers actionnés à la main ou au pied (handlooms) (2); (b) vêtements ou autres articles textiles obtenus manuellement à partir de tissus décrits sous (a) et cousus uniquement à la main sans l'aide d'une machine (handicrafts) (2); (c) produits textiles relevant du folklore traditionnel fabriqués à la main, comme définis dans la liste convenue entre la Communauté européenne et le pays indiqué dans la case 4. 12 Competent authority (name, full address, country) Autorité compétente (nom, adresse complète, pays) At - À . , on - le . (Signature) (Stamp - Cachet)%gt%END OF GRAPHIC%gt% 
` 
ANNEX E 
'Annex to Appendix B 
(The full product descriptions of the categories listed in this Annex are to be found in Annex I) 
%gt%TABLE%gt% 
` 
ANNEX F 
'PROTOCOL 3 
on trade between Romania and the Community in processed agricultural products 
Article 1 
1. The Community and Romania shall apply to processed agricultural products the duties listed in Annexes I and II respectively, in accordance with the conditions mentioned therein, whether limited by quota or not. 
2. The Association Council shall decide on: 
- extensions of the list of processed agricultural products under this Protocol, 
- amendments to the duties referred to in the Annexes, 
- increases in or the abolition of tariff quotas. 
3. The Association Council may replace the duties established by this Protocol by a system of compensatory amounts established on the basis of the respective market prices of the Community and Romania of the agricultural products actually used in the manufacture of processed agricultural products covered by this Protocol. It shall draw up the list of products to which these amounts apply and the list of basic products; it shall adopt general implementing rules to that end. 
Article 2 
1. The duties applied pursuant to Article 1 may be reduced by decision of the Association Council: 
- when in trade between the Community and Romania the duties applied to the basic products are reduced, or 
- in response to reductions resulting from mutual concessions relating to processed agricultural products. 
2. For the purpose of applying paragraph 1, first indent, the part of the agricultural component corresponding to the basic product which has been subject to a duty reduction shall be reduced, taking into account the extent of the duty reduction to which it will apply. The quantity of the basic product subject to tariff reduction shall also be taken into account either while determining the amount of quota for the reduction of agricultural component or while determining the extent of agricultural component reduction of the processed product in question. 
Article 3 
The Community and Romania shall inform each other of the administrative arrangements adopted for the products covered by this Protocol. 
These arrangements should ensure equal treatment for all interested parties and should be as simple and flexible as possible. 
ANNEX I 
%gt%TABLE%gt% 
%gt%TABLE%gt% 
%gt%TABLE%gt% 
ANNEX II 
%gt%TABLE%gt% 
%gt%TABLE%gt% 
` 
ANNEX G 
'ANNEX XI 
%gt%TABLE%gt% 
Appendix to Annex XI 
Minimum import price arrangement for certain soft fruit for processing 
1. Minimum import prices are fixed as follows for the following products for processing originating in Romania: 
%gt%TABLE%gt% 
2. The minimum import prices, as set out in point 1, will be respected on a consignment by consignment basis. In the case of a customs declaration value being lower than the minimum import price, a countervailing duty equal to the difference between the minimum import price and the customs declaration value will be charged. 
3. If the import prices of a given product covered by this Appendix show a trend suggesting that the prices could go below the level of the minimum import prices in the immediate future, the European Commission will inform the Romanian authorities in order to enable them to correct the situation. 
4. At the request of either the Community or Romania, the Association Committee shall examine the functioning of the system or the revision of the level of the minimum import prices. If appropriate, the Association Committee shall take the necessary decisions. 
5. To encourage and promote the development of trade and for the mutual benefit of all parties concerned, a consultation meeting will be organised three months before the beginning of each marketing year in the Community. This consultation meeting will take place between the European Commission and the interested European producers' organisations for the products concerned, on the one part, and the authorities', producers' and exporters' organisations of all the associated exporting countries, on the other part. 
During the consultation meeting, the market situation for soft fruit including, in particular, forecasts for production, stock situation, price evolution and possible market development, as well as possibilities to adapt supply to demand, will be discussed.` 
ANNEX H 
'ANNEX XII 
%gt%TABLE%gt% 
Exchange of letters between the European Community and Romania regarding entry prices applied to the import of fruit and vegetables into the Community 
A. Letter from the Community 
Sir, 
The Agreement on the adaptation of the agricultural part of the Europe Agreement following the implementation of the Uruguay Round and the enlargement of the European Community signed today between the European Community and Romania does not contain any provisions regarding the entry price regime applied to the import of fruit and vegetables into the Community. 
It has been agreed that the Parties will continue consultations on this sector in order to find a solution. Taking into account, inter alia, the experience of the last marketing years, the solution should allow the continuation of trade relations traditionally established between the Community and Romania for the products concerned. In the meantime, Romania will not be treated less favourably than other associated countries in this context. 
In addition, both Parties will continue talks in the framework of the relevant procedures of the Europe Agreement on any other unresolved issues in order to find as soon as possible mutually acceptable solutions. 
I should be obliged if you would confirm the agreement of the Government of Romania to the contents of this letter. 
Please accept, Sir, the assurance of my highest consideration. 
On behalf of the Council of the European Union 
B. Letter from the Government of Romania 
Sir, 
I have the honour to acknowledge receipt of your letter of today's date which reads as follows: 
%quot%The Agreement on the adaptation of the agricultural part of the Europe Agreement following the implementation of the Uruguay Round and the enlargement of the European Community signed today between the European Community and Romania does not contain any provisions regarding the entry price regime applied to the import of fruit and vegetables into the Community. 
It has been agreed that the Parties will continue consultations on this sector in order to find a solution. Taking into account, inter alia, the experience of the last marketing years, the solution should allow the continuation of trade relations traditionally established between the Community and Romania for the products concerned. In the meantime, Romania will not be treated less favourably than other associated countries in this context. 
In addition, both Parties will continue talks in the framework of the relevant procedures of the Europe Agreement on any other unresolved issues in order to find as soon as possible mutually acceptable solutions. 
I should be obliged if you would confirm the agreement of the Government of Romania to the contents of this letter.%quot% 
I have the honour to confirm that the Government of Romania is in agreement with the contents of this letter. 
Please accept, Sir, the assurance of my highest consideration. 
For the Government of Romania` 
