Council Regulation (EEC) No 1384/79 of 25 June 1979 amending Regulation (EEC) No 1108/70 introducing an accounting system for expenditure on infrastructure in respect of transport by rail, road and inland waterway 
COUNCIL REGULATION (EEC) No 1384/79 of 25 June 1979 amending Regulation (EEC) No 1108/70 introducing an accounting system for expenditure on infrastructure in respect of transport by rail, road and inland waterway 
THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES, 
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 75 thereof, 
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission, 
Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament (1), 
Having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee (2), 
Whereas, in order to institute under the common transport policy a system of charging for the use of infrastructure, it is necessary to know what expenditure is incurred in respect of infrastructure; 
Whereas a permanent accounting system offers the most suitable means for knowing what expenditure is incurred in respect of infrastructure; 
Whereas to this end the Council, by Regulation (EEC) No 1108/70 (3), introduced a permanent accounting system for such expenditure; 
Whereas account should be taken of experience gained and of the development of the common transport policy ; whereas the forms of accounts, the list of types of infrastructure and the schedule of returns concerning the use of infrastructure provided for in Regulation (EEC) No 1108/70 should be adjusted accordingly, 
HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: 
Article 1 
Regulation (EEC) No 1108/70 is hereby amended as follows: 1. Article 3 shall be replaced by the following: 
%quot%Article 3 
Infrastructure expenditure accounts shall be kept for each of the railway networks listed in Annex II (A. 1) and for the total of all the other networks listed in Annex II (A. 2), as well as for all roads and inland waterways open to public traffic, with the following exceptions: (a) roads closed to motor traffic, that is, to vehicles with a cylinder capacity equal to or exceeding 50 cm3; 
(b) roads used exclusively by agricultural or forestry vehicles or which serve only to provide access for agricultural or forestry operations; 
(c) inland waterways on which traffic is limited to vessels of less than 250 tonnes deadweight; 
(d) waterways of a maritime character, as listed in Regulation (EEC) No 281/71 (1). 
(1)OJ No L 33, 10.2.1971, p. 11.%quot% 2. Article 5 (2) (a) shall be replaced by the following: 
%quot%2. Separate accounts shall be presented: 
(a) in respect of railways: (i) for each of the networks listed in Annex II (A. 1); 
(ii) for the total of all the other networks listed in Annex II (A. 2). However, the returns relating to these networks shall be sent only once every five years, starting with those for the year 1980.%quot% (1)OJ No C 296, 11.12.1978, p. 57. (2)OJ No C 128, 21.5.1979, p. 35. (3)OJ No L 130, 15.6.1970, p. 4. 
3. The second indent of the first subparagraph of Article 6 shall be replaced by the following: 
%quot%- capital repayments and, separately, interest on loans contracted earlier.%quot% 
4. Article 7 shall be replaced by the following: 
%quot%Article 7 
Member States shall send to the Commission, at the same time as they send the accounts referred to in Article 5 and in respect of the same period, returns relating to the use of infrastructures in accordance with Tables A, B (1.1) and C of Annex III. 
The returns covered by Tables B (1.2) and B (2) of that Annex shall be sent only once every five years. In the case of Table B (1.2) returns shall be sent for the first time for the year 1980 and, in the case of Table B (2), returns shall be suspended until work on the system of charging for the use of infrastructure make them necessary.%quot% 
5. Annexes I, II and III are amended in accordance with the Annex. 
Article 2 
Member States shall, in good time and after consulting the Commission, adopt such laws, regulations or administrative provisions as may be necessary for the implementation of this Regulation. 
Where a Member State so requests, or where the Commission considers it appropriate, the Commission shall consult with the Member States concerned upon the proposed terms of the measures referred to in the preceding paragraph. 
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. 
Done at Luxembourg, 25 June 1979. 
For the Council 
The President 
J. LE THEULE 
ANNEX 
1. In B (2) of Annex I to Regulation (EEC) No 1108/70, subdivisions 20 and 21 shall be deleted. 
2. Annex II to Regulation (EEC) No 1108/70 is hereby amended as follows: 
%quot%ANNEX II 
SCHEDULE OF THE RAIL NETWORKS, CATEGORIES OF ROAD AND INLAND WATERWAYS REFERRED TO IN ARTICLES 3 AND 5 (2) A.1. RAIL - Main networks 
Kingdom of Belgium 
- Société nationale des chemins de fer belges (SNCB)/Nationale Maatschappij der Belgische Spoorwegen (NMBS) 
Kingdom of Denmark 
- Danske Statsbaner (DSB) 
Federal Republic of Germany 
- Deutsche Bundesbahn (DB) 
French Republic 
- Société nationale des chemins de fer français (SNCF) 
Ireland 
- Coras Iompair Eireann (CIE) 
Italien Republic 
- Azienda autonoma delle ferrovie dello Stato (FS) 
Grand Duchy of Luxembourg 
- Société nationale des chemins de fer luxembourgeois (CFL) 
Kingdom of the Netherlands 
- N.V. Nederlandse Spoorwegen (NS) 
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland - British Railways Board (BRB) 
- Northern Ireland Railways Company Ltd (NIR) 
A.2. RAIL - Networks open to public traffic and connected to the main network (excluding urban networks) 
Federal Republic of Germany 
Albtal-Verkehrs-Gesellschaft mbH 
Alsternordbahn GmbH 
Eisenbahn-Gesellschaft Altona-Kaltenkirchen-Neumünster 
Augsburger Lokalbahn GmbH 
Bayerische Landeshafenverwaltung 
Bentheimer Eisenbahn AG 
Birkenfelder Eisenbahn GmbH 
Delmenhorst-Harpstedter Eisenbahn GmbH 
DB, Bundesbahndirektion Frankfurt, Ne-Geschäftsführung 
Deutsche Eisenbahn-GmbH 
Dortmunder Eisenbahn 
Elmshorn-Barmstedt-Oldesloer Eisenbahn AG 
Verkehrsbetriebe Extertal - Extertalbahn GmbH 
Filderbahn der Stuttgarter Straßenbahnen AG 
Hafen- und Verkehrsbetriebe der Stadt Kiel 
Häfen der Stadt Köln 
Hafen- und Bahnbetriebe der Stadt Krefeld 
Hersfelder Kreisbahn 
Hohenzollerische Landesbahn AG 
Verkehrsbetriebe Grafschaft Hoya GmbH 
Hümmlinger Kreisbahn 
Ilmebahn-Gesellschaft AG 
Köln-Bonner Eisenbahnen AG 
Kölner Verkehrs-Betriebe AG (Köln-Frechen-Benzelrather Eisenbahn) 
Eisenbahn Köln-Mülheim-Leverkusen der Farbenfabriken Bayer AG 
Krefelder Eisenbahn-Gesellschaft AG 
Kreiswerke Gelnhausen GmbH - Verkehrsbetriebe 
Meppen-Haselünner Eisenbahn 
Merzig-Büschfelder Eisenbahn GmbH 
Mindener Kreisbahnen 
Bahnen der Stadt Monheim GmbH 
Neukölln-Mittenwalder Eisenbahn-Gesellschaft 
Neusser Eisenbahn 
Niederrheinische Verkehrsbetriebe Akticngesellschaft NIAG 
Nordfriesische Verkehrsbetriebe AG 
Kreisbahn Osterode am Harz - Kreiensen 
Osthannoversche Eisenbahnen AG 
Osthavelländische Eisenbahn 
Verkehrsbetriebe Peine-Salzgitter GmbH 
Regentalbahn AG 
Rhein-Sieg-Verkehrsgesellschaft 
Verkehrsbetriebe des Kreises Schleswig-Flensburg 
Siegener Kreisbahn GmbH 
Südwestdeutsche Eisenbahnen AG 
Tegernsee-Bahn AG 
Trossinger Eisenbahn 
Uetersener Eisenbahn-AG 
Verden-Walsroder Eisenbahn GmbH 
Vorwohle-Emmerthaler Verkehrsbetriebe GmbH 
Bahngesellschaft Waldhof - Nebenbahn Waldhof/Sandhofen 
Wanne-Bochum-Herner Eisenbahn 
Werne-Bockum-Höveler Eisenbahn 
Westfälische Verkehrsgesellschaft mbH 
Westerwaldbahn 
Wuppertaler Stadtwerke AG 
Württembergische Eisenbahn-GmbH 
Württembergische Nebenbahnen GmbH 
Industriebahn der Stadt Zülpich 
Hafenbahn Aschaffenburg 
Brohltal-Eisenbahn GmbH 
Kleinbahnverwaltung Gemeinde Edewecht 
Hohenlimburger Kleinbahn 
Oberrheinische Eisenbahn Gesellschaft AG 
Wittlager Kreisbahn GmbH 
Italien Republic 
Torino - Ceres 
Ferrovie Nord Milano 
Trento - Malè 
Società Veneta Autoferrovie 
Società Veneta per imprese e costruzioni pubbliche 
Ferrovia Suzzara - Ferrara 
Gestione Governativa Ferrovie Padane 
Azienda Trasporti Consorziali di Modena 
Azienda Trasporti Consorziali - Bologna 
Acotral 
Ferrovie Adriatico Appennino 
Gestione Governativa Ferrovia Cancello - Benevento 
Ferrotranviaria (SpA) 
Ferrovie del Sud-Est 
Ferrovie del Gargano 
Gestione Governativa Ferrovia Circumetnea Azienda Consorziale Trasporti - Reggio Emilia 
La Ferroviaria italiana 
Società Mediterranea strade ferrate umbro-aretine 
Società nazionale di ferrovie e tranvie.%quot% 
3. Annex III to Regulation (EEC) No 1108/70 is hereby amended as follows: 3.1. Table B (1) in Annex III is replaced by Tables B (1.1) and B (1.2) below: 
%quot%TABLE B - ROAD 1.1. Vehicle / kilometres run annually on roads outside built-up areas 
Member State: 
Category of road: %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%T0015934%quot%%gt% 
1.2. Vehicle / kilometres run annually on roads outside built-up areas 
Member State: 
Category of road: %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%T0015935%quot%%gt% 
3.2. Items (e) and (f) of Table C in Annex III shall be replaced by the following: %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%T0015936%quot%%gt% 
