Guideline of the European Central Bank of 3 February 2000 on the management of the foreign reserve assets of the European Central Bank by the national central banks and the legal documentation for operations involving the foreign reserve assets of the European Central Bank (ECB/2000/1) 
Guideline of the European Central Bank 
of 3 February 2000 
on the management of the foreign reserve assets of the European Central Bank by the national central banks and the legal documentation for operations involving the foreign reserve assets of the European Central Bank 
(ECB/2000/1) 
(2000/516/EC) 
THE GOVERNING COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK, 
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community (hereinafter referred to as the Treaty) and in particular to Article 105(2), third indent, thereof and to Article 3.1, third indent, and Articles 12.1, 14.3 and 30.6 of the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and of the European Central Bank (hereinafter referred to as the Statute), 
Whereas: 
(1) Pursuant to Article 30.1 of the Statute, the European Central Bank (ECB) shall be provided by the national central banks of Member States which have adopted the single currency (NCBs) with foreign reserve assets and shall have the full right to hold and manage the foreign reserves that are transferred to it. 
(2) Pursuant to Articles 9.2 and 12.1 of the Statute, the ECB may manage certain of its activities through the NCBs and have recourse to the NCBs to carry out certain of its operations, and the ECB considers that the NCBs should manage the foreign reserves as agents of the ECB accordingly; the ECB considers it necessary for the NCBs acting as agents for the ECB in the management of the ECB's foreign reserve assets to apply a code of conduct and follow certain other procedures with the ECB's counterparties. 
(3) The involvement of NCBs in the management of the foreign reserve assets transferred to the ECB and the transactions related to such management entail the need to prepare documentation for operations involving the ECB's foreign reserves. 
(4) In accordance with Articles 12.1 and 14.3 of the Statute, ECB Guidelines form an integral part of Community law, 
HAS ADOPTED THIS GUIDELINE: 
Article 1 
Definitions 
For the purposes of this Guideline: 
- %quot%participating Member States%quot% shall mean all Member States which have adopted the single currency in accordance with the Treaty, 
- %quot%NCBs%quot% shall mean national central banks of participating Member States. 
Article 2 
Agency status of NCBs 
1. Each NCB shall carry out operations involving the foreign reserve assets of the ECB as an agent for the ECB, and by commencing such operations shall be deemed to acknowledge that agency status. In relation to all operations conducted by the NCBs on behalf of the ECB, each NCB shall disclose to all parties the ECB's status as principal when agreeing on each operation, both by name and by reference to an account number or identifier. 
2. Each NCB shall, when carrying out operations involving the foreign reserve assets of the ECB as an agent for the ECB, subordinate its own interests, or the interests of any entity for which it carries out operations, to the interests of the ECB. 
3. Each NCB shall, when asked by a counterparty of the ECB for proof of the NCB's authority to carry out operations involving the foreign reserve assets of the ECB as an agent for the ECB, provide such counterparties with proof of a mandate of agency. 
Article 3 
Legal documentation 
1. All operations involving the foreign reserve assets of the ECB shall be conducted using legal documentation as required by this Article. 
2. A document in the form attached as Annex 1 to this Guideline shall be annexed to and form an integral part of every standard agreement under which collateralised operations (including without limitation repurchase agreements, reverse repurchase agreements, buy/sell-back agreements, sell/buy-back agreements, securities lending agreements and tripartite repo arrangements) or over-the-counter derivatives operations involving the foreign reserve assets of the ECB are conducted. 
3. There shall be in place with every counterparty a master netting agreement in one of the forms attached as Annex 2 to this Guideline. 
4. All collateralised operations involving the foreign reserve assets of the ECB comprising repurchase agreements, reverse repurchase agreements, buy/sell-back agreements and sell/buy-back agreements and all over-the-counter derivatives operations involving the foreign reserve assets of the ECB shall be documented under the standard agreements listed in Annex 3 to the Guideline, in such forms as may be approved or amended by the ECB from time to time. 
5. The provision of financial services involving the foreign reserve assets of the ECB by financial intermediaries, including without limitation banking, custodial and investment services obtained from correspondents, custodians and depositories, settlement organisations and central clearers for exchange-traded derivatives, shall be documented under such specific agreements as may be approved by the ECB from time to time. 
Article 4 
Final provisions 
This Guideline is addressed to the national central banks of participating Member States. 
This Guideline is effective as from 3 February 2000. 
This Guideline shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Communities. 
Done at Frankfurt am Main, 3 February 2000. 
On behalf of the Governing Council of the ECB 
Willem F. Duisenberg 
ANNEX 1 
ECB ANNEX(1) 
The provisions of this ECB Annex are to be annexed to and form an integral part of any standard agreement under which collateralised operations (including without limitation repurchase agreements, reverse repurchase agreements, buy/sell back agreements and sell/buy back agreements) or over-the-counter derivative operations involving the foreign reserve assets of the ECB Guideline on the management of the foreign reserve assets of the European Central Bank by the national central banks and the legal documentation for operations involving the foreign reserve assets of the European Central Bank (ECB/2000/1). 
1. The provisions of this annex shall be supplemental terms and conditions applying to [name the standard agreement to which this annex applies] dated [date of agreement] (the Agreement) between the European Central Bank (the ECB) and [name of counterparty] (the Counterparty). The provisions of this Annex shall be annexed to, incorporated in and form an integral part of the Agreement. If and to the extent that any provisions of the Agreement (other than the provisions of this annex) or the ECB Master Netting Agreement dated as of [date] (the Master Netting Agreement) between the ECB and the Counterparty, including any other supplemental terms and conditions, annex or schedule to the Agreement, contain provisions inconsistent with or to the same or similar effect as the provisions of this Annex, the provisions of this Annex shall prevail and apply in place of those provisions. 
2. Except as required by law or regulation, the Counterparty agrees that it shall keep confidential, and under no circumstances disclose to a third party, any information or advice furnished by the ECB or any information concerning the ECB obtained by the Counterparty as a result of it being a party to the Agreement, including without limitation information regarding the existence or terms of the Agreement (including this annex) or the relationship between the Counterparty and the ECB created thereby, nor shall the Counterparty use the name of the ECB in any advertising or promotional material. 
3. The Counterpartty agrees to notify the ECB in writing as soon as reasonably practicable of (i) any consolidation or amalgamation with, or merger with or into, or transfer of all or substantially all of its assets to, another entity; (ii) the appointment of any liquidator, receiver, administrator or analogous officer or the commencement of any procedure for the winding-up or reorganisation of the Counterparty or any other analogous procedure; or (iii) a change in the Counterparty's name. 
4. There shall be no waiver by the ECB of immunity from suit or the jurisdiction of any court, or any relief against the ECB by way of injunction, order for specific performance or for recovery of any property of the ECB or attachment of its assets (whether before or after judgement), in every case to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law. 
5. There shall not apply in relation to the ECB any event of default or other provision of any kind in which reference is made to the bankruptcy, insolvency or other analogous event of the ECB. 
6. The Counterparty agrees that it has entered into the Agreement (including this Annex) as principal and not as agent for any other entity and that it shall enter into all transactions as principal. 
(1) The original text of this Annex is drafted in the English language and is incorporated into master agreements drawn up in the English, French and German languages. The master agreements drawn up in the English language are governed by English or New York law, the master agreements drawn up in the French language are governed by English or New York law, the master agreements drawn up in the French language are governed by English or New york law, the master agreements drawn up in the French language are governed by French law and the master agreements drawn up in the German language are governed by German law. The translation of this Annex into other languages is for illustrative purposes only and shall not be legally binding. 
ANNEX 2 
INDEX 
Annex 2a 
Master Netting Agreement governed by English law 
(for use with Counterparties incorporated in jurisdictions other than France, Germany and the United States of America; drafted in the English language) 
Annex 2b 
Master Netting Agreement governed by French law 
(for use with Counterparties incorporated in France; drafted in the French language) 
Annex 2c 
Master Netting Agreement governed by German law 
(for use with Counterparties incorporated in Germany; drafted in the German language) 
Annex 2d 
Master Netting Agreement governed by New York law 
(for use with Counterparties incorporated in the United States of America; drafted in the English language) 
ANNEX 2a 
Master Netting Agreement governed by English law 
(for use with Counterparties incorporated in jurisdictions other than France, Germany and the United States of America; drafted in the English language) 
MASTER NETTING AGREEMENT 
%gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2000207EN.002802.EPS%quot%%gt% 
1. Scope of agreement 
1.1. The purpose of this Agreement (hereinafter referred to as the Agreement) is to ensure that the ECB is able to net all existing positions under all outstanding transactions made between the ECB and the Counterparty, regardless of any agent or agents authorised to act on behalf of the ECB through whom the transactions giving rise to those positions may have been effected, including the central bank of any Member State of the European Union which has adopted the euro as its currency, and regardless of which office (including the head office and all branches) of the Counterparty may be involved in such transactions, and after taking into account the effect of any existing netting provisions in master or other agreements between the ECB and the Counterparty and/or provisions of mandatory law that operate with similar effect that may apply to certain of such transactions. 
1.2. In this Agreement, a %quot%netting agreement%quot% means any agreement for the time being in effect between the Parties (and including, without limitation, this Agreement and agreements of the kind listed in Appendix 1 to this Agreement), including such modifications and additions thereto as may be agreed between the ECB and the Counterparty (hereinafter referred to as the Parties) from time to time, which contains provisions to the effect that, should any event of default as defined for the purposes of such agreement occur, there may be an early termination, liquidation, closing-out or acceleration of transactions or obligations under transactions or any analogous event (a %quot%default termination%quot%) and the respective obligations of the Parties under such agreement may be combined, aggregated or set-off against each other so as to produce a single net balance payable by one Party to the other. 
2. General 
2.1. All transactions of whatever nature (hereinafter referred to as transactions) entered into between the Parties at any time after the date of this Agreement shall be governed by this Agreement, unless the Parties specifically agree otherwise. 
2.2. The Parties acknowledge that the terms of this Agreement, all transactions governed by this Agreement, any amendments to the terms of such transactions, and the single net balance payable under any netting agreement constitute a single business and contractual relationship and arrangement. 
2.3. The Counterparty has entered into this Agreement as principal and represents and warrants that it has entered and shall enter into all transactions as principal. 
2.4. This Agreement is supplemental to the netting agreements entered into between the Parties prior to the date of this Agreement, and all further netting agreements and transactions entered into between the Parties after the date of this Agreement shall be supplemental to this Agreement. 
3. Base currency 
The base currency for the purposes of this Agreement shall be the US dollar or, at the ECB's option, any other currency. Wherever it is necessary in accordance with the terms of this Agreement to convert amounts into the base currency, such amounts shall be converted at the daily reference rate published by the ECB for the currency to be converted into the base currency or, in the absence of such reference rate, at the rate of exchange at which the ECB can buy or sell, as appropriate, such amounts with or against the base currency on such day, all as determined by the ECB. 
4. Cross acceleration 
Should any default termination occur under any netting agreement (including under Appendix 2 to this Agreement), then the ECB shall have the right to declare, by written notice to the Counterparty, that a default termination has occurred under each other netting agreement in respect of which default termination has not occurred in accordance with the provisions thereof. 
5. Global netting 
5.1. Should a default termination occur, the ECB shall, as soon as is reasonably practicable, take an account of what is due from each Party to the other under each netting agreement (including under Appendix 2 to this Agreement) in respect of which default termination has occurred and aggregate the sums due from each Party to the other under such netting agreements (including under Appendix 2 to this Agreement), in every case in or converted into the base currency, and only the net balance of the account shall be payable by the Party owing the larger aggregate sum. 
5.2. Clause 5.1 shall continue to operate to the extent possible notwithstanding the unenforceability under applicable law of any provisions contained in any netting agreement (including under Appendix 2 of this Agreement). 
6. Notices and other communications 
All notices, instructions and other communications to be given under this Agreement shall be effective only upon receipt and shall be made in writing (including by electronic means). 
7. Severability 
Each provision contained herein (including, without limitation, Appendix 2 to this Agreement) shall be treated as separate from any other provision herein and shall be enforceable notwithstanding the unenforceability of any such other provision. 
8. Non-assignability 
The rights and obligations of the Counterparty under this Agreement may not be assigned, charged, pledged or otherwise transferred or dealt with by the Counterparty. 
9. Governing law and jurisdiction 
9.1. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with English law. 
9.2. For the benefit of the ECB, the Counterparty hereby irrevocably submits for all purposes of or in connection with this Agreement to the jurisdiction of the District Court (Landgericht) of Frankfurt am Main, Germany. Nothing in this clause 9 shall limit the right of the ECB to take proceedings before the courts of any other country of competent jurisdiction. 
%gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2000207EN.002901.EPS%quot%%gt% 
Appendix 1 
Netting agreements(1) 
1. ISDA Master Agreement (Multicurrency-Cross Border 1992) 
2. PSA-ISMA Global Master Repurchase Agreement 
3. Convention-cadre AFB relative aux opérations de marché à terme 
4. Convention-cadre AFB relative aux opérations de pension livrée 
5. Rahmenvertrag für Finanztermingeschäfte 
6. Rahmenvertrag für echte Pensionsgeschäfte 
(1) This documentation is maintained by the ECB Legal Services and the legal departments of the national central banks. 
Appendix 2 
Transactions not subject to any netting agreement 
1. The provisions of this Appendix apply to transactions entered into between the Parties that are not effectively subject to any other netting agreement. 
2. Should: 
(a) a default termination occur under any netting agreement, or 
(b) an event that is defined as an event of default or other analogous event under any netting agreement occur, which event would, assuming there were outstanding transactions under any such netting agreement, result in, or entitle the ECB to take steps which would result in, a default termination under such netting agreement, 
(any such event under (a) or (b) above is referred to in this Appendix as an %quot%event of default%quot%), then all transactions to which this Appendix applies (but not less than all, unless any such transaction may not be so closed out under applicable law) under which obligations have or would otherwise have fallen due by or after the date of such event of default (the %quot%close out date%quot%) may by notice in writing from the ECB to the Counterparty be liquidated and closed-out as described under paragraphs 3 and 4 of this Appendix, and the ECB shall, without prejudice to paragraphs 3 and 4 of this Appendix, not be obliged to make any further payments or deliveries under any such transactions. 
3. Should liquidation and close-out under paragraph 2 of this Appendix occur, the ECB shall, as soon as is reasonably practicable, take an account of what is due from each Party to the other, including, as necessary, determining in respect of each transaction the ECB's total gain or loss, as the case may be, resulting from the liquidation and close-out of such transaction as at the date of such liquidation and close-out, in every case in or converted into the base currency. The ECB shall then aggregate such gains and losses and only the balance of the account shall be payable by the Counterparty, if the aggregate losses exceed the aggregate gains, or by the ECB, if the aggregate gains exceed the aggregate losses. 
4. In determining in respect of each transaction the ECB's total gain or loss, the ECB shall, subject to applicable law, use a commercially reasonable method of calculation which (a) is based on, to the extent practicable and available, quotations from at least four leading dealers in the relevant market operating in the same financial centre, and (b) takes into account, where applicable, the liquidation and close-out of such transaction earlier than its scheduled value date or delivery date. 
5. The Parties agree that the calculation of the net sum under paragraphs 3 and 4 of this Appendix is a reasonable pre-stimate of losses suffered. 
ANNEX 2b 
Master Netting Agreement governed by French law 
(for use with Counterparties incorporated in France; drafted in the French language) 
CONVENTION-CADRE DE COMPENSATION 
%gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2000207EN.003102.EPS%quot%%gt% 
1. Champ d'application de la convention 
1.1 La présente convention (ci-après dénommée la %quot%convention%quot%) a pour objet de permettre à la BCE de compenser l'ensemble des positions existantes dans le cadre de l'ensemble des transactions en cours effectuées entre la BCE et la contrepartie, sans distinction de l'agent ou des agents autorisés à agir pour le compte de la BCE par l'intermédiaire duquel ou desquels les transactions génératrices de ces positions ont pu être effectuées, y compris la banque centrale de tout État membre de l'Union européenne ayant adopté l'euro comme monnaie nationale, et sans distinction de l'établissement (y compris le siège social et l'ensemble des succursales) de la contrepartie impliqué dans ces transactions, et après prise en considération de l'incidence de toutes les dispositions existantes relatives à la compensation qui figurent dans la convention-cadre ou dans les autres conventions conclues entre la BCE et la contrepartie et/ou des dispositions de la législation applicable ayant un effet similaire et susceptibles de s'appliquer à certaines de ces transactions. 
1.2 Dans la présente convention, on entend par %quot%convention de compensation%quot% toute convention en vigueur entre les parties (y compris, sans restriction, la présente convention et les conventions de l'espèce énumérées dans l'additif 1 de la présente convention), y compris les modifications et les avenants aux textes susceptibles d'être convenus, s'il y a lieu, entre la BCE et la contrepartie (ci-après dénommées les %quot%parties%quot%), qui comporte des dispositions prévoyant, lors de la survenance d'un cas de défaillance tel que défini dans le cadre de cette convention, une possibilité de résiliation, d'exigibilité anticipées ou de %quot%close out%quot% des transactions ou des obligations afférentes aux transactions ou de tout événement analogue (une %quot%résiliation pour défaillance%quot%), les obligations respectives des parties dans le cadre de cette convention pouvant dès lors être regroupées, globalisées ou compensées réciproquement de manière à donner lieu à un solde net unique payable par l'une des parties à l'autre. 
2. Dispositions d'ordre général 
2.1 L'ensemble des transactions de toute nature (ci-après dénommées %quot%transactions%quot%) conclues entre les parties à tout moment après la date de la présente convention sera régi par la présente convention, sauf si les parties en décident spécifiquement autrement. 
2.2 Les parties reconnaissent que les termes de la présente convention, l'ensemble des transactions régies par elle, toutes les modifications apportées aux termes de ces transactions et le solde net unique payable dans le cadre de toute convention de compensation constituent une relation et un accord professionnels et contractuels uniques. 
2.3 La contrepartie a conclu cette convention en son nom propre; elle déclare et atteste qu'elle a conclu et conclura toutes les transactions en son nom propre. 
2.4 La présente convention complète les conventions antérieures de compensation conclues antérieurement entre les parties; toutes les autres conventions de l'espèce et transactions qui seront conclues ultérieurement entre les parties compléteront la présente convention. 
3. Devise de référence 
La devise de référence utilisée dans le cadre de cette convention sera le dollar des États-Unis ou, au choix de la BCE, une autre devise. Dans les cas où il sera nécessaire, conformément aux termes de la présente convention, de convertir les montants dans la devise de référence, la conversion s'effectuera au taux de référence quotidien publié par la BCE pour la devise à convertir dans la devise de référence ou, à défaut de ce taux de référence, au taux de change auquel la BCE peut acheter ou vendre, selon le cas, ces montants avec ou contre la devise de référence ce même jour, selon les conditions définies par la BCE. 
4. Clause de défaillance croisée 
Lors de la survenance d'une résiliation pour défaillance dans le cadre d'une convention de compensation (y compris dans le cadre de l'additif 2 de la présente convention), la BCE sera habilitée à prononcer, par notification écrite à la contrepartie, la résiliation pour défaillance de chacune des autres conventions de compensation pour lesquelles il n'y a pas eu résilitation pour défaillance dans les conditions prévues par les dispositions précitées. 
5. Compensation globale 
5.1 Lors de la survenance d'une résiliation pour défaillance, la BCE comptabilisera dans les meilleurs délais les montants dus par chacune des parties à l'autre au titre de chaque convention de compensation (y compris dans le cadre de l'additif 2 de la présente convention) pour laquelle est intervenue une résiliation pour défaillance et globalisera les sommes dues par chaque partie à l'autre au titre de ces conventions de compensation (y compris dans le cadre de l'additif 2 de la présente convention) libellées ou converties dans tous les cas dans la devise de référence, seul le solde net étant payable par la partie débitrice du montant brut le plus élevé. 
5.2 La clause 5.1 restera en vigueur dans la mesure du possible nonobstant le caractère inapplicable, en vertu de la loi en vigueur, de toute disposition pouvant être contenues dans une convention de compensation (y compris dans le cadre de l'additif 2 de la présente convention). 
6. Notifications et autres communications 
L'ensemble des notifications, instructions et autres communications à donner dans le cadre de la présente convention ne prendront effet qu'à la date de leur réception et seront adressées par écrit (y compris par les moyens électroniques). 
7. Gestion séparée 
Chacune des dispositions de la présente convention (y compris, sans restriction, l'additif 2 de ladite convention) sera traitée isolément des autres dispositions et sera applicable nonobstant le caractère inapplicable de ces autres dispositions. 
8. Incessibilité 
Les droits et les obligations de la contrepartie dans le cadre de la présente convention ne peuvent être cédés, transférés ou autrement négociés par la contrepartie. 
9. Loi applicable, attribution de compétences 
9.1 La présente convention sera soumise au droit français et interprétée selon ledit droit. 
9.2 Dans l'intérêt de la BCE, la contrepartie soumet irrévocablement par la présente convention tous les cas afférents à celle-ci ou s'y rapportant à la compétence de la juridiction du tribunal (Landgericht) de Francfort-sur-le-Main, Allemagne. Aucune disposition de cette clause 9 ne limitera le droit de la BCE d'entamer une procédure judiciaire devant les tribunaux compétents d'un autre pays. 
%gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2000207EN.003201.EPS%quot%%gt% 
Additif 1 
Conventions de compensation 
1. Convention-cadre AFB relative aux opérations de marché à terme 
2. Convention-cadre AFB relative aux opérations de pension livrée 
3. ISDA Master Agreement (Multicurrency-Cross Border 1992) 
4. PSA-ISMA Global Master Repurchase Agreement 
5. The Bond Market Association Master Repurchase Agreement 
6. Rahmenvertrag für Finanztermingeschäfte 
7. Rahmenvertrag für echte Pensionsgeschäfte 
Additif 2 
Transactions non soumises à une convention de compensation 
1. Les dispositions du présent additif s'appliquent aux transactions conclues entre les parties qui ne sont pas effectivement soumises à une autre convention de compensation. 
2. Lors de la survenance: 
(a) d'une résiliation pour défaillance dans le cadre d'une convention de compensation ou 
(b) d'un événement défini comme étant un cas de défaillance ou un événement analogue dans le cadre d'une quelconque convention de compensation, lequel événement, dans l'hypothèse où des transactions seraient en cours au titre de cette convention de compensation, amènerait ou habiliterait la BCE à prendre des mesures qui entraîneraient une résiliation pour défaillance dans le cadre de ladite convention, 
[les événements prévus aux points a) ou b) étant dénommés dans le présent additif %quot%cas de défaillance%quot%], 
l'ensemble des transactions concernées par le présent additif (sans exception, sauf dans le cas où une transaction ne peut faire l'objet d'une résiliation dans ces conditions aux termes de la loi applicable) dans le cadre desquelles les obligations sont ou seraient arrivées à échéance à la date ou après la date de survenance de ce cas de défaillance (la %quot%date de résiliation%quot%) pourront être résiliées par notification écrite de la BCE à la contrepartie dans les conditions prévues aux points 3 et 4 du présent additif et la BCE ne sera pas tenue d'effectuer, sans préjudice des points 3 et 4 du présent additif, d'effectuer d'autres paiements ou livraisons au titre de ces transactions. 
3. En cas de résiliation selon les termes du point 2 du présent additif, la BCE comptabilisera dans les meilleurs délais les sommes dues par chacune des parties à l'autre, notamment, le cas échéant, en déterminant pour chaque transaction la perte ou le gain total de la BCE résultant de la résiliation de ladite transaction à la date de résiliation, le montant étant dans tous les cas libellé ou converti dans la devise de référence. La BCE globalisera ensuite ces gains et pertes et seul le solde net sera payable par la contrepartie si le total des pertes excède celui des gains, ou par la BCE si le total des gains excède celui des pertes. 
4. Pour déterminer, dans le cadre de chaque transaction, le montant total du gain ou de la perte de la BCE, celle-ci utilisera, sous réserve de la législation applicable, une méthode de calcul commercialement raisonnable: a) fondée, dans la mesure du possible, sur les cotations fournies par au moins quatre intervenants de premier rang du marché considéré et opérant dans le même centre financier et b) prenant en compte, le cas échéant, la résiliation de la transaction intervenue antérieurement à la date de valeur ou de livraison prévue. 
5. Les parties conviennent que le calcul de la somme nette aux termes des points 3 et 4 du présent additif constitue une estimation raisonnable des pertes encourues. 
ANNEX 2c 
Master Netting Agreement governed by German law 
(for use with Counterparties incorporated in Germany; drafted in the German language) 
EZB-AUFRECHNUNGSVERTRAG 
(%quot%MASTER NETTING AGREEMENT%quot%) 
%gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2000207EN.003402.EPS%quot%%gt% 
1. Anwendungsbereich dieses Vertrags 
1.1. Der Zweck dieses Vertrages (im Folgenden: %quot%Vertrag%quot%) besteht darin, die Verrechnung aller bestehenden Positionen aus allen offenen Geschäften zwischen der EZB und dem Vertragspartner zu ermöglichen. Der Vertrag schließt Geschäfte ein, die die EZB über Stellvertreter (z. B. Teilnehmerzentralbanken) abschließt. Er umfasst auch ferner alle diejenigen Geschäfte, die über die Hauptverwaltung oder eine unselbständige Zweigniederlassung des Vertragspartners mit der EZB abgeschlossen werden. Der Vertrag berücksichtigt ferner alle sonst zwischen den Parteien bestehenden Rahmenverträge oder sonstigen Vereinbarungen, die Aufrechnungsklauseln enthalten, sowie zwingende gesetzliche Vorschriften mit ähnlichen Wirkungen. 
1.2. Unter einem Aufrechnungsvertrag (Netting Agreement) im Sinne dieses Vertrags (im Folgenden: %quot%Aufrechnungsvertrag%quot%) sind alle die zwischen den Parteien getroffenen (einschließlich dieses Vertrags sowie der im Anhang 1 zum Vertrag aufgeführten) Vereinbarungen in ihrer jeweiligen Fassung zu verstehen, die Klauseln enthalten, wonach im Fall eines wichtigen Grundes (event of default) insbesondere eine vorzeitige Beendigung eintritt oder eine Kündigung ausgesprochen werden kann (im folgenden: %quot%Beendigung oder Kündigung aus wichtigem Grund%quot%); ferner muss dort vereinbart sein, dass infolge einer Beendigung oder Kündigung Geschäfte oder Verpflichtungen fällig bzw. in verrechenbare, fällige Forderungen umgewandelt werden, die anschließend zusammengefasst, ver- oder aufgerechnet werden mit der Folge, dass lediglich ein einziger Nettosaldo durch eine der beiden Parteien geschuldet wird. 
2. Allgemeines 
2.1. Für alle Geschäfte, die die Parteien nach Unterzeichnung dieses Vertrags tätigen (im Folgenden %quot%Einzelabschlüsse%quot%), gelten die nachfolgenden Bestimmungen, sofern die Parteien im Einzelabschluss nichts Abweichendes vereinbaren. 
2.2. Die Parteien sind sich darüber einig, dass dieser Vertrag in seiner jeweiligen Fassung, alle Einzelabschlüsse, die von diesem Vertrag erfasst werden, und die aus Aufrechnungsverträgen resultierenden Nettosalden ein einheitliches Vertragsverhältnis bilden. 
2.3. Die Vertragsparteien sichern zu, dass sie den Vertrag in eigenem Namen abgeschlossen haben und alle Einzelabschlüsse ebenfalls in eigenem Namen tätigen werden. 
3. Vertragswährung (%quot%base currency%quot%) 
Vertragswährung ist der US-Dollar oder jede andere Währung, die die Parteien vereinbaren. Die Umrechnung von auf andere Währungen lautenden Beträgen in die Vertragswährung erfolgt jeweils zum täglichen Referenzkurs, den die EZB für die umzurechnende Währung veröffentlicht oder, hilfsweise, zum jeweiligen Marktkurs, zu dem die EZB an diesem Geschäftstag den umzurechnenden Währungsbetrag gegen die Vertragswährung kaufen oder verkaufen kann. 
4. Vertragsübergreifendes Kündigungs- oder Beendigungsrecht aus wichtigem Grund 
Sofern die EZB ein Kündigungs- oder Beendigungsrecht aus wichtigem Grund im Rahmen eines Aufrechnungsvertrags (sowie auch gemäß Anhang 2 zu diesem Vertrag) hat, erstreckt sich dieses Recht auch auf jeden anderen Aufrechnungsvertrag, auch wenn nach den dortigen Vereinbarungen ein vergleichbarer Kündigungs- oder Beendigungsgrund noch nicht gegeben ist. 
5. Allumfassende Aufrechnugsvereinbarung (%quot%global netting%quot%) 
5.1. Sollte eine Beendigung oder Kündigung aus wichtigem Grund stattfinden, wird die EZB unverzüglich die aus den jeweiligen Aufrechnungsverträgen (sowie auch aus Anhang 2 zu diesem Vertrag) resultierenden Nettosalden errechnen und diese, nach Umrechnung in die Vertragswährung, zu einer einzigen Forderung oder Verbindlichkeit zusammenfassen mit der Folge, dass nurmehr dieser Betrag zwischen den Parteien geschuldet wird. 
5.2. Z. 5.1 gilt ungeachtet dessen, dass Klauseln in Aufrechnungsverträgen (einschließlich Anhang 2 zu diesem Vertrag) nach dem jeweils anwendbaren Recht nicht wirksam bzw. nichtig sind. 
6. Erklärungen und andere Mitteilungen 
Alle Erklärungen, Weisungen und andere Mitteilungen im Rahmen dieses Vertrags sind nur dann wirksam, wenn sie in Schriftform oder in elektronischer Form übermittelt werden und der Gegenseite auch zugegangen sind. 
7. Teilbarkeit 
Sollte eine Bestimmung dieses Vertrags (einschließlich des Anhangs 2) ganz oder teilweise unwirksam sein oder werden, bleiben die übrigen Bestimmungen wirksam. An Stelle der unwirksamen Bestimmungen tritt eine wirksame Regelung, die dem wirtschaftlichen Zweck mit der unwirksamen Bestimmung soweit wie möglich Rechnung trägt. 
8. Abtretungsverbot 
Die Rechte und Pflichten aus dem Vertrag darf der Vertragspartner weder abtreten noch in sonstiger Weise hierüber verfügen. 
9. Anwendbares Recht und Gerichtsstand 
9.1. Dieser Vertrag unterliegt dem Recht der Bundesrepublik Deutschland. 
9.2. Nicht ausschließlicher Gerichtsstand ist Frankfurt am Main. 
%gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2000207EN.003501.EPS%quot%%gt% 
Anlage 1 
Liste der Aufrechnungsverträge 
1. Rahmenvertrag für Finanztermingeschäfte 
2. Rahmenvertrag für echte Pensionsgeschäfte 
3. ISDA Master Agreement (Multicurrency-Cross Border 1992) 
4. The Bond Market Association Master Repurchase Agreement 
5. PSA-ISMA Global Master Repurchase Agreement 
6. Convention-cadre AFB relative aux opérations de marché à terme 
7. Convention-cadre AFB relative aux opérations de pension livrée 
Anlage 2 
Geschäfte, die keinem Aufrechnungsvertrag unterliegen: 
1. Vorschriften dieses Anhangs finden Anwendung auf solche Einzelabschlüsse zwischen den Parteien, die von keinem anderen Aufrechnungsvertrag erfasst werden. 
2. Sofern 
(a) eine Beendigung oder Kündigung aus wichtigem Grund nach Maßgabe eines Aufrechnungsvertrags eintritt oder 
(b) ein Beendigungs- oder Kündigungsgrund nach Maßgabe eines Aufrechnungsvertrags vorliegt, der zur Beendigung führen oder zur Kündigung durch die EZB berechtigen würde, sofern Einzelabschlüsse im Rahmen dieses Aufrechnungsvertrags getätigt worden wären, (im Folgenden: %quot%beendigendes Ereignis im Sinne dieses Anhangs%quot%) 
und die EZB eine Kündigung im Hinblick auf diesen Anhang ausgesprochen hat, dann können alle unter diesen Anhang fallenden Einzelabschlüsse gemäß den Punkten 3 und 4 dieses Anhangs durch eine schriftliche Mitteilung der EZB an den Vertragspartner beendigt und abgerechnet werden, sofern diese Einzelabschlüsse Verpflichtungen enthalten, die im Zeitpunkt des Wirksamwerdens der Beendigung oder Kündigung noch nicht fällig sind. Die Hauptpflichten aus diesen Einzelgeschäften erlöschen, vorbehaltlich der nachfolgenden Punkte 3 und 4 dieses Anhangs. 
3. Sollte eine Beendigung oder Kündigung gemäß Punkt 2 dieses Anhangs eintreten, wird die EZB unverzüglich die beiderseitigen Ansprüche ermitteln und hierbei, sofern erforderlich, den aus jedem Einzelabschluss für die EZB resultierenden Gewinn oder Verlust ermitteln, der sich aus der vorzeitigen Kündigung oder Beendigung an dem Tag ergibt, an dem die Kündigung oder Beendigung wirksam wird; sie wird ferner diese Positionen gegebenenfalls in die Vertragswährung umrechnen. Die EZB fasst dann diese Forderungen und Verbindlichkeiten zu einer einzigen Forderung oder Verbindlichkeit zusammen mit der Folge, dass nurmehr dieser Betrag zwischen den Parteien geschuldet wird. 
4. Zur Ermittlung der Gewinne und Verluste der EZB aus den jeweiligen Einzelabschlüssen wird die EZB, vorbehaltlich des anwendbaren Rechtes, eine für beide Seiten angemessene Berechnungsmethode verwenden, die a), soweit möglich und vorhanden, auf den von mindestens vier bedeutenden Marktteilnehmern an dem maßgeblichen Finanzplatz gestellten Kursen oder Preisen beruht und b) hierbei in Rechnung stellt, dass die Beendigung oder Kündigung des jeweiligen Einzelabschlusses vorzeitig stattgefunden hat. 
ANNEX 2d 
Master Netting Agreement governed by New York law 
(for use with Counterparties incorporated in the United States of America; drafted in the English language) 
MASTER NETTING AGREEMENT 
%gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2000207EN.003702.EPS%quot%%gt% 
1. Scope of agreement 
1.1. The purpose of this Agreement (hereinafter referred to as the Agreement) is to ensure that the ECB is able to net all existing positions under all outstanding transactions made between the ECB and the Counterparty, regardless of any agent or agents authorised to act on behalf of the ECB through whom the transactions giving rise to those positions may have been effected, including the central bank of any Member State of the European Union which has adopted the euro as its currency, and regardless of which office (including the head office and all branches) of the Counterparty may be involved in such transactions, and after taking into account the effect of any existing netting provisions in master or other agreements between the ECB and the Counterparty and/or provisions of mandatory law that operate with similar effect that may apply to certain of such transactions. 
1.2. In this Agreement, a %quot%netting agreement%quot% means any agreeement for the time being in effect between the Parties (and including, without limitation, this Agreement and agreements of the kind listed in Appendix 1 to this Agreement), including such modifications and additions thereto as may be agreed between the ECB and the Counterparty (hereinafter referred to as the Parties), from time to time, which contains provisions to the effect that, should any event of default as defined for the purposes of such agreement occur, there may be an early termination, liquidation, closing-out or acceleration of transactions or obligations under transactions or any analogous event (a %quot%default termination%quot%) and the respective obligations of the parties under such agreement may be combined, aggregated or netted against each other so as to produce a single net balance payable by one Party to the other. 
2. General 
2.1. All transactions of whatever nature (hereinafter referred to as transactions) entered into between the ECB and the parties at any time after the date of this Agreement shall be governed by this Agreement, unless the parties specifically agree otherwise. 
2.2. The parties acknowledge that the terms of this Agreement, all transactions governed by this Agreement, any amendments to the terms of such transactions, and the single net balance payable under any netting agreement constitute a single business and contractual relationship and arrangement. 
2.3. Each party represents and warrants to the other that it is a financial institution for purposes of the US Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (hereinafter referred to as FIDICIA), and the parties agree that this Agreement shall be a netting contract, as defined in FDICIA, and that each receipt or payment obligation under the Agreement shall be a covered contractual payment entitlement or covered contractual payment obligation respectively, as defined in and subject to FDICIA. 
2.4. The Counterparty has entered into this Agreement as principal and represents and warrants that it has entered and shall enter into all transactions as principal. 
[2.5. The Counterparty represents and warrants to, and convenants and agrees with the ECB, that: 
(a) it has the power to execute and deliver this Agreement and any other documentation relating to this Agreement to which it is a party and that it is required to deliver; it has the power to perform its obligations under this Agreement and any obligations under any netting agreement to which it is a party; it has taken all necessary action to authorise such execution, deliery and performance, including authorisations required under the US Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as amended, including amendments effected by the US Federal Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989, and under any agreement, writ, decree or order entered into with a party's supervisory authorities; and 
(b) at all times during the term of this Agreement, it will continuously include and maintain as part of its official written books and records this Agreement, the netting agreements and evidence of all necesary authorisations](1). 
[2.5.] [2.6.] This Agreement is supplemental to the netting agreements entered into between the parties prior to the date of this Agreement, and all further netting agreements and transactions entered into between the Parties after the date of this Agreement shall be supplemental to this Agreement. 
3. Base currency 
The base currency for the purposes of this Agreement shall be the US dollar or, at the ECB's option, any other currency. Wherever it is necessary in accordance with the terms of this Agreement to convert amounts into the base currency, such amounts shall be converted at the daily reference rate published by the ECB for the currency to be converted into the base currency or, in the absence of such reference rate, at the rate of exchange at which the ECB can buy or sell, as appropriate, such amounts with or against the base currency on such day, all as determined by the ECB. 
4. Cross acceleration 
Should any default termination occur under any netting agreement (including under Appendix 2 to this Agreement), then the ECB shall have the right to declare, by written notice to the Counterparty, that a default termination has occurred under each other netting agreement in respect of which default termination has not occured in accordance with the provisions thereof. 
5. Global netting 
5.1. Should a default termination occur, the ECB shall, as soon as is reasonably practicable, take an account of what is due from each party to the other under each netting agreement (including under Appendix 2 of this Agreement) in respect of which default termination has occured and aggregate the sums due from each party to the other under such netting agreements (including under Appendix 2 to this Agreement), in every case in or converted into the base currency, and only the net balance of the account shall be payable by the party owing the larger aggregate sum. 
5.2. Clause 5.1 shall continue to operate to the extent possible notwithstanding the unenforceability under applicable law of any provisions contained in any netting agreement (including under Appendix 2 to this Agreement). 
6. Notices and other communications 
All notices, instructions and other communications to be given under this Agreement shall be effective only upon receipt and shall be made in writing (including by electronic means). 
7. Severability 
Each provision contained herein (including, without limitation, Appendix 2 to this Agreement) shall be treated as separate from any other provision herein and shall be enforceable notwithstanding the unenforceability of any such other provision. 
8. Non-assignability 
The rights and obligations of the Counterparty under this Agreement may not be assigned, charged, pledged or otherwise transferred or dealt with by the Counterparty. 
9. Governing law and jurisdiction 
9.1. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, United States of America. 
9.2. For the benefit of the ECB, the Counterparty hereby irrevocably submits for all purposes of or in connection with this Agreement to the jurisdiction of the District Court (Landgericht) of Frankfurt am Main, Germany. Nothing in this clause 9 shall limit the right of the ECB to take proceedings before the courts of any other country of competent jurisdiction. 
%gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2000207EN.003801.EPS%quot%%gt% 
(1) Representation to be used where the Counterparty is a US depository institution. 
Appendix 1 
Netting agreements 
1. ISDA Master Agreement (Multicurrency-Cross Border 1992) 
2. The Bond Market Association Master Repurchase Agreement 
3. PSA-ISMA Global Master Repurchase Agreement 
4. Convention-cadre AFB relative aux opérations de marché à terme 
5. Convention-cadre AFB relative aux opérations de pension livrée 
6. Rahmenvertrag für Finanztermingeschäfte 
7. Rahmenvertrag für echte Pensionsgeschäfte 
Appendix 2 
Transactions not subject to any netting agreement 
1. The provisions of this Appendix apply to transactions entered into between the Parties that are not effectively subject to any other netting agreement. 
2. Should: 
(a) a default termination occur under any netting agreement, or 
(b) an event that is defined as an event of default or other analogous event under any netting agreement occur, which event would, assuming there were outstanding transactions under any such netting agreement, result in, or entitle the ECB to take steps which would result in, a default termination under such netting agreement, 
(any such event under (a) or (b) above is referred to in this Appendix as an %quot%event of default%quot%), then all transactions to which this Appendix applies (but not less than all, unless any such transaction may not be so closed out under applicable law) under which obligations have or would otherwise have fallen due by or after the date of such event of default (the %quot%close out date%quot%) may by notice in writing from the ECB to the Counterparty be liquidated and closed-out as described under paragraphs 3 and 4 of this Appendix, and the ECB shall, without prejudice to paragraphs 3 and 4 of this Appendix, not be obliged to make any further payments or deliveries under any such transactions. 
3. Should liquidation and close-out under paragraph 2 of this Appendix occur, the ECB shall, as soon as is reasonably practicable, take an account of what is due from each Party to the other, including, as necessary, determining in respect of each transaction the ECB's total gain or loss, as the case may be, resulting from the liquidation and close-out of such transaction as at the date of such liquidation and close-out, in every case in or converted into the base currency. The ECB shall then aggregate such gains and losses and only the balance of the account shall be payable by the Counterparty, if the aggregate losses exceed the aggregate gains, or by the ECB, if the aggregate gains exceed the aggregate losses. 
4. In determining in respect of each transaction the ECB's total gain or loss, the ECB shall, subject to applicable law, use a commercially reasonable method of calculation which (a) is based on, to the extent practicable and available, quotations from at least four leading dealers in the relevant market operating in the same financial centre, and (b) takes into account, where applicable, the liquidation and close-out of such transaction earlier than its scheduled value date or delivery date. 
5. The Parties agree that the calculation of the net sum under paragraphs 3 and 4 of this Appendix is a reasonable pre-estimate of losses suffered. 
ANNEX 3 
STANDARD AGREEMENTS FOR COLLATERALISED AND OVER-THE-COUNTER DERIVATIVES OPERATIONS 
1. All collateralised operations involving the foreign reserve assets of the ECB comprising repurchase agreements, reverse repurchase agreements, buy/sell-back agreements and sell/buy-back agreements shall be documented under the following standard agreements, in such form as may be approved or amended by the ECB from time to time: for Counterparties located in France, the %quot%Convention-cadre AFB relative aux opérations de pension livrée%quot%; for Counterparties located in Germany, the %quot%Rahmenvertrag für echte Pensionsgeschäfte%quot%; for Counterparties located outside France and Germany and not incorporated in the United States, the %quot%PSA/ISMA Global Master Repurchase Agreement%quot%; and for Counterparties incorporated in the United States of America, %quot%The Bond Market Association Master Repurchase Agreement%quot%. 
2. All over-the-counter derivative operations involving the foreign reserve assets of the ECB shall be documented under the following standard agreements, in such form as may be approved or amended by the ECB from time to time: for Counterparties located in France, the %quot%Convention-cadre AFB relative aux opérations de marché à terme%quot%; for Counterparties located in Germany, the %quot%Rahmenvertrag für echte Finanztermingeschäfte%quot%; for Counterparties located outside France and Germany and not incorporated in the United States, the %quot%1992 International Swaps and Derivatives Association Master Agreement%quot% (Multicurrency - cross-border, English law version); and for Counterparties incorporated in the United States of America, the %quot%1992 International Swaps and Derivatives Association Master Agreement%quot% (Multicurrency - cross-border, New York law version). 
