Commission opinion 
of 15 November 2005 
concerning the modified plan for the disposal of radioactive waste from the Golfech Nuclear Power Station located in France, in accordance with Article 37 of the Euratom Treaty 
(2005/C 283/05) 
(Only the French text is authentic) 
On 13 April 2005, the European Commission received from the Government of France, in accordance with Article 37 of the Euratom Treaty, General Data relating to the modified plan for the disposal of radioactive waste from the Golfech Nuclear Power Station. 
On the basis of these General Data and following consultation with the Group of Experts, the Commission has drawn up the following opinion: 
1. The distance between the plant and the nearest point on the territory of another Member State, in this case Spain, is approximately 150 km. 
2. The planned modification will lead to a general decrease of the gaseous and liquid discharge limits except for liquid tritium, for which an increase is foreseen. 
3. During normal operation, the planned modification will not cause an exposure of the population in another Member State that is significant from the point of view of health. 
4. In the event of unplanned releases of radioactive effluents resulting from an accident of the type and magnitude considered in the General Data, the planned modification to the fuel management system will not give rise to any exposure significant from the point of view of health on the population of another Member State. 
In conclusion, the Commission is of the opinion that the implementation of the modified plan for the disposal of radioactive waste in whatever form from the Golfech Nuclear Power Station located in France, both in normal operation and in the event of an accident of the type and magnitude considered in the General Data, is not liable to result in radioactive contamination, significant from the point of view of health, of the water, soil or airspace of another Member State. 
-------------------------------------------------- 
