95/308/EC: Council Decision of 24 July 1995 on the conclusion, on behalf of the Community, of the Convention on the protection and use of transboundary watercourses and international lakes 
COUNCIL DECISION of 24 July 1995 on the conclusion, on behalf of the Community, of the Convention on the protection and use of transboundary watercourses and international lakes (95/308/EC) 
THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, 
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular Article 130s (1) in conjunction with the first sentence of paragraph 2 and the first subparagraph of Article 228 (3) thereof, 
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission (1), 
Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament (2), 
Having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee (3), 
Whereas the Commission has taken part, on behalf of the Community, in the negotiations in and ad hoc working party on the preparation of a Convention on the protection and use of transboundary watercourses and international lakes; 
Whereas the Convention was signed on behalf of the Community at Helsinki on 18 March 1992; 
Whereas the main purpose of the Convention is to establish a framework for bilateral or multilateral cooperation to prevent and control the pollution of transboundary watercourses and to ensure to rational use of water resources in the member countries of the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe; 
Whereas the Community has adopted measures in the field covered by the Convention; whereas it is the Community's responsibility to enter into international commitments in such matters; 
Whereas Community policy on the environment contributes to the pursuit of the objectives of preserving, protecting and improving the quality of the environment, protecting human health and prudent and rational use of natural resources with a view to sustainable development; 
Whereas, as a whole, Community policy on the environment aims at strengthening international cooperation in order to achieve a high level of protection; whereas it is based on the precautionary principle and on the principles that preventive action should be taken, that environmental damage should as a priority be rectified at source and that the polluter should pay; 
Whereas within their respective spheres of competence the Community and Member States cooperate with their countries and competent international organizations; 
Whereas the conclusion of the Convention by the Community will help to achieve the objectives set out in Article 130r of the Treaty, 
HAS DECIDED AS FOLLOWS: 
Article 1 
The Convention on the protection and use of transboundary watercourses and international lakes is hereby approved on behalf of the European Community. 
The text of the Convention is attached in Annex I. 
Article 2 
The President of the Council is authorized to designate the person or persons empowered to deposit the instrument of approval with the General Secretariat of the United Nations in accordance with Article 25 of the Convention. 
The person or persons shall at the same time deposit the declaration of competence attached in Annex II. 
Done at Brussels, 24 July 1995. 
For the Council 
The President 
P. SOLBES MIRA 
(1) OJ No C 212, 5. 8. 1993, p. 60. 
(2) OJ No C 128, 9. 5. 1994. 
(3) OJ No C 34, 2. 2. 1994, p. 1. 
