Regulation (EC) No 2150/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2002 on waste statistics (Text with EEA relevance) 
Regulation (EC) No 2150/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council 
of 25 November 2002 
on waste statistics 
(Text with EEA relevance) 
THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, 
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular Article 285 thereof, 
Having regard to the proposals from the Commission(1), 
Having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee(2), 
Acting in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 251 of the Treaty(3), 
Whereas: 
(1) Regular Community statistics on the production and management of waste from businesses and private households are required by the Community for monitoring the implementation of waste policy. This creates the basis for monitoring compliance with the principles of maximisation of recovery and safe disposal. Statistical instruments are still required, however, for assessing compliance with the principle of waste prevention and to establish a link between waste generation data and global, national and regional inventories of resource use. 
(2) The terms for the description of waste and waste management need to be defined in order to ensure the comparability of results in waste statistics. 
(3) Community waste policy has led to the establishment of a set of principles to be followed by waste-producing units and waste management. This requires the monitoring of waste at different points of the waste-stream generation, collection, recovery and disposal. 
(4) Council Regulation (EC) No 322/97 of 17 February 1997 on Community statistics(4). 
(5) To guarantee comparable results, waste statistics should be produced in accordance with the specified breakdown, in an appropriate form and within a fixed period of time from the end of the reference year. 
(6) Since the objective of the proposed measure, namely to establish a framework for the production of Community statistics on the generation, recovery and disposal of waste, cannot be sufficiently achieved by the Member States, by reason of the need to define terms of description of waste and waste management so as to ensure the comparability of the statistics supplied by the Member States, and can therefore be better achieved at Community level, the Community may adopt measures in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity as set out in Article 5 of the Treaty. In accordance with the principle of proportionality, as set out in that Article, this Regulation does not go beyond what is necessary in order to achieve the objective of the proposed measure. 
(7) Member States may need a transitional period for the establishment of their statistics on waste for all or some of the economic activities A, B and G to Q of NACE REV 1 as established by Council Regulation (EEC) No 3037/90 of 9 October 1990 on the statistical classification of economic activities in the European Community(5) for which their national statistical system requires major adaptations. 
(8) The measures necessary for the implementation of this Regulation should be adopted in accordance with Council Decision 1999/468/EC of 28 June 1999 laying down the procedures for the exercise of implementing powers conferred on the Commission(6). 
(9) The Statistical Programme Committee has been consulted by the Commission, 
HAVE ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: 
Article 1 
Objective 
1. The objective of this Regulation is to establish a framework for the production of Community statistics on the generation, recovery and disposal of waste. 
2. Member States and the Commission, within their respective fields of competence, shall produce Community statistics on the generation, recovery and disposal of waste, excluding radioactive waste, which is already covered by other legislation. 
3. The statistics shall cover the following areas: 
(a) Generation of waste according to Annex I; 
(b) Recovery and disposal of waste according to Annex II; 
(c) After the pilot studies according to Article 5: import and export of waste for which no data is collected under Council Regulation (EEC) No 259/93 of 1 February 1993 on the supervision and control of shipments of waste within, into and out of the European Community(7), in accordance with Annex III. 
4. In compiling the statistics, Member States and the Commission shall observe the mainly substance-oriented statistical nomenclature, as set out in Annex III. 
5. The Commission shall, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 7(2), establish a table of equivalence between the statistical nomenclature of Annex III and the list of waste established by Commission Decision 2000/532/EC(8). 
Article 2 
Definitions 
For the purposes and within the framework of this Regulation: 
(a) %quot%waste%quot% shall mean any substance or object as defined in Article 1(a) of Council Directive 75/442/EEC of 15 July 1975 on waste(9); 
(b) %quot%separately collected fractions of waste%quot% shall mean household and similar waste, selectively collected in homogeneous fractions by public services, non-profit organisations and private enterprises acting in the field of organised waste collection; 
(c) %quot%recycling%quot% shall have the same meaning as in the definition given in Article 3(7) of European Parliament and Council Directive 94/62/EC of 20 December 1994 on packaging and packaging waste(10); 
(d) %quot%recovery%quot% shall mean any of the operations provided for in Annex II.B to Directive 75/442/EEC; 
(e) %quot%disposal%quot% shall mean any of the operations provided for in Annex II.A to Directive 75/442/EEC; 
(f) %quot%recovery or disposal facility%quot% shall mean a facility that requires a permit or registration pursuant to Articles 9, 10 or 11 of Directive 75/442/EC; 
(g) %quot%hazardous waste%quot% shall mean any waste as defined in Article 1(4) of Council Directive 91/689/EEC of 12 December 1991 on hazardous waste(11); 
(h) %quot%non-hazardous waste%quot% shall mean waste which is not covered by point (g); 
(i) %quot%incineration%quot% shall mean thermal treatment of waste in an incineration plant as defined in Article 3(4) or a co-incineration plant as defined in Article 3(5) of Directive 2000/76/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 December 2000 on the incineration of waste(12); 
(j) %quot%landfill%quot% shall mean a waste disposal site as defined in Article 2(g) of Council Directive 1999/31/EC of 26 April 1999 on the landfill of waste(13); 
(k) %quot%capacity of waste incineration facilities%quot% shall mean the maximum capacity to incinerate waste, in tonnes per annum or in gigajoules; 
(l) %quot%capacity of waste recycling facilities%quot% shall mean the maximum capacity to recycle waste, in tonnes per annum; 
(m) %quot%capacity of landfills%quot% shall mean the remaining capacity (at the end of the data reference year) of the landfill facility to dispose of waste in the future, measured in cubic metres; 
(n) %quot%capacity of other disposal facilities%quot% shall mean the capacity of the facility to dispose of waste, measured in tonnes per annum. 
Article 3 
Collection of data 
1. Member States shall, whilst complying with conditions as to quality and accuracy to be defined in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 7(2), acquire the data necessary for the specification of the characteristics listed in Annexes I and II by means either of: 
- surveys, 
- administrative or other sources, such as the reporting obligations under Community legislation on waste management, 
- statistical estimation procedures on the basis of samples or waste-related estimators, or 
- a combination of these means. 
In order to reduce response burdens, the national authorities and the Commission shall, subject to the limits and the conditions fixed by each Member State and by the Commission in their respective fields of competence, have access to administrative data sources. 
2. In order to reduce the administrative burden on small enterprises, enterprises of less than 10 employees shall be excluded from surveys, unless they contribute significantly to the generation of waste. 
3. Member States shall produce statistical results, following the breakdown set out in Annexes I and II. 
4. The exclusion referred to in paragraph 2 must be consistent with the coverage and quality objectives as referred to in Section 7(1) of Annexes I and II. 
5. Member States shall transmit the results, including confidential data, to Eurostat in an appropriate format and within a set period of time from the end of the respective reference periods, as laid down in Annexes I and II. 
6. The treatment of confidential data and the transmission of such data as provided for in paragraph 5 shall be carried out in accordance with the existing Community provisions governing statistical confidentiality. 
Article 4 
Transitional period 
1. During a transitional period the Commission may, at the request of a Member State and in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 7(2), grant derogations from the provisions of Section 5 of Annexes I and II. This transitional period may not exceed: 
(a) two years after the entry into force of this Regulation, for the production of results relating to Section 8(1)(1), Item 16 (Services activities) of Annex I and to Section 8(2) of Annex II; 
(b) three years after the entry into force of this Regulation, for the production of results relating to Section 8(1)(1), Items 1 (Agriculture, hunting and forestry) and 2 (Fisheries) of Annex I. 
2. The derogations referred to in paragraph 1 can be granted to individual Member States only for the data of the first reference year. 
3. The Commission shall draw up a programme for pilot studies on waste from the economic activities referred to in paragraph 1(b) to be carried out by the Member States. The pilot studies shall aim to develop a methodology to obtain regular data which shall be governed by the principles of Community statistics, as laid down in Article 10 of Regulation (EC) No 322/97. 
The Commission shall finance up to 100 % of the costs for conducting the pilot studies. On the basis of the conclusions of the pilot studies, the Commission shall adopt the necessary implementing measures in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 7(2). 
Article 5 
Import and export of waste 
1. The Commission shall draw up a programme for pilot studies on the import and export of waste to be carried out by Member States. The pilot studies shall aim at developing a methodology to obtain regular data which shall be governed by the principles of Community statistics, as laid down in Article 10 of Regulation (EC) No 322/97. 
2. The Commission programme for pilot studies shall be consistent with the contents of Annexes I and II, particularly the aspects related to the scope and coverage of wastes, waste categories for the classification of waste, reference years and periodicity, taking into account the reporting obligations under Regulation (EEC) No 259/93. 
3. The Commission shall finance up to 100 % of the costs for conducting the pilot studies. 
4. On the basis of the conclusions of the pilot studies, the Commission shall inform the European Parliament and the Council of the possibilities of compiling statistics for the activities and characteristics covered by the pilot studies for import and export of waste. The Commission shall adopt the necessary implementation measures in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 7(2). 
5. The pilot studies shall be conducted at the latest within three years after the entry into force of this Regulation. 
Article 6 
Implementation measures 
The measures necessary for the implementation of this Regulation, shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 7(2). These shall include measures: 
(a) for adjustment to economic and technical developments in the collection and statistical processing of data, as well as the processing and the transmission of results; 
(b) for adaptation of the specifications listed in Annexes I, II and III; 
(c) for the production of results in accordance with Article 3(2), (3) and (4), taking into account the economic structures and technical conditions in a Member State; such measures may allow an individual Member State not to report certain items in the breakdown, provided the impact on the quality of the statistics is proven to be limited. In all cases where exemptions are given, the total amount of waste for each item listed in sections 2(1) and 8(1) of Annex I shall be compiled; 
(d) for the definition of the proper quality evaluation criteria and the contents of the quality reports as referred to in Section 7 of Annexes I and II; 
(e) for setting out the appropriate format for the transmission of results by Member States within two years from the date of entry into force of this Regulation; 
(f) for compiling the list for granting transitional periods and derogations to Member States, as specified in Article 4; 
(g) for implementation of the results of the pilot studies, as specified in Article 4(3) and Article 5(1). 
Article 7 
Committee procedure 
1. The Commission shall be assisted by the Statistical Programme Committee established by Council Decision 89/382/EEC, Euratom(14). 
2. Where reference is made to this paragraph, Articles 5 and 7 of Decision 1999/468/EC shall apply, having regard to the provisions of Article 8 thereof. 
The period laid down in Article 5(6) of Decision 1999/468/EC shall be set at three months. 
3. The Committee shall adopt its rules of procedure. 
4. The Commission shall transmit to the Committee set up by Directive 75/442/EEC the draft measures that it intends to submit to the Statistical Programme Committee. 
Article 8 
Report 
1. The Commission shall, within five years after the date of entry into force of this Regulation and every three years thereafter, submit a report to the European Parliament and the Council on the statistics compiled pursuant to this Regulation and in particular on their quality and the burden on businesses. 
2. The Commission shall, within two years after the date of entry into force of this Regulation, submit to the European Parliament and the Council a proposal abolishing overlapping reporting obligations. 
3. The Commission shall, within two years after the entry into force of this Regulation, submit to the European Parliament and the Council a report on the progress of the pilot studies referred to in Article 4(3) and Article 5(1). If necessary, it shall propose revisions of the pilot studies, to be decided upon in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 7(2). 
Article 9 
Entry into force 
This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities. 
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. 
Done at Brussels, 25 November 2002. 
For the European Parliament 
The President 
P. Cox 
For the Council 
The President 
B. Bendtsen 
(1) OJ C 87, 29.3.1999, p. 22, OJ C 180 E, 26.6.2001, p. 202 and amended proposal of 10 December 2001 (not yet published in the Official Journal). 
(2) OJ C 329, 17.11.1999, p. 17. 
(3) Opinion of the European Parliament of 4 September 2001 (OJ C 72 E, 21.3.2002, p. 32), Council Common Position of 15 April 2002 (OJ C 145 E, 18.6.2002, p. 85) and Decision of the European Parliament of 4 July 2002 (not yet published in the Official Journal), Decision of the Council of 14 November 2002. 
(4) OJ L 52, 22.2.1997, p. 1 constitutes the reference framework for the provisions of this Regulation. 
(5) OJ L 293, 24.10.1990, p. 1. Regulation as last amended by Commission Regulation (EC) No 29/2002 (OJ L 6, 10.1.2002, p. 3). 
(6) OJ L 184, 17.7.1999, p. 23. 
(7) OJ L 30, 6.2.1993, p. 1. Regulation as last amended by Commission Regulation (EC) No 2557/2001 (OJ L 349, 31.12.2001, p. 1). 
(8) OJ L 226, 6.9.2000, p. 3. Decision as last amended by Council Decision 2001/573/EC (OJ L 203, 28.7.2001, p. 18). 
(9) OJ L 194, 25.7.1975, p. 39. Directive as last amended by Commission Decision 96/350/EC (OJ L 135, 6.6.1996, p. 32). 
(10) OJ L 365, 31.12.1994, p. 10. 
(11) OJ L 377, 31.12.1991, p. 20. Directive as amended by Directive 94/31/EC (OJ L 168, 2.7.1994, p. 28). 
(12) OJ L 332, 28.12.2000, p. 91. 
(13) OJ L 182, 16.7.1999, p. 1. 
(14) OJ L 181, 28.6.1989, p. 47. 
ANNEX I 
GENERATION OF WASTE 
SECTION 1 
Coverage 
The statistics are to be compiled for all activities classified within the coverage of Sections A to Q, of NACE REV 1. These Sections cover all economic activities. 
This Annex also covers: 
(a) waste generated by households; 
(b) waste arising from recovery and/or disposal operations. 
SECTION 2 
Waste categories 
1. Statistics on the following waste categories are to be produced: 
%gt%TABLE%gt% 
2. In accordance with the reporting obligation under Directive 94/62/EC, the Commission will draw up a programme for pilot studies to be carried out on a voluntary basis by Member States in order to assess the relevance of including packaging waste entries (EWC-Stat Version 2) in the breakdown list set out in point 1. The Commission will finance up to 100 % of the costs for these pilot studies. On the basis of the conclusions of these pilot studies, the Commission will adopt the necessary implementation measures in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 7(2) of this Regulation. 
SECTION 3 
Characteristics 
1. Characteristics for the waste categories: 
For each waste category listed in Section 2(1), the quantity of waste generated will be compiled. 
2. Regionale characteristics: 
Population or dwellings served by a collection scheme for mixed household and similar waste (NUTS 2 level). 
SECTION 4 
Reporting unit 
1. The reporting unit to be used for all waste categories is 1000 tonnes of (normal) wet waste. For the waste categories %quot%sludge%quot% an additional figure for dry matter should be provided. 
2. The reporting unit for regional characteristics should be the percentage of the population or dwellings. 
SECTION 5 
First reference year and periodicity 
1. The first reference year is the second calendar year following the entry into force of this Regulation. 
2. Member States shall furnish data for every second year after the first reference year. 
SECTION 6 
Transmission of results to Eurostat 
The results are to be transmitted within 18 months of the end of the reference year. 
SECTION 7 
Report on the coverage and quality of statistics 
1. For each item listed in Section 8 (activities and households), Member States will indicate the percentage to which the compiled statistics represent the universe of waste of the respective item. The minimum requirement for the coverage will be defined in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 7(2) of this Regulation. 
2. Member States will submit a quality report, indicating the degree of precision for the collected data. A description will be given on the estimations, aggregations or exclusions, and the way these procedures affect the distribution of waste categories, listed in Section 2(1) by economic activities and households, as referred to in Section 8. 
3. The Commission will include the coverage and quality reports in the report provided for in Article 8 of this Regulation. 
SECTION 8 
Production of results 
1. The results for the characteristics listed in Section 3(1), are to be compiled for: 
1.1. the following Sections, Divisions, Groups and Classes of NACE REV 1: 
%gt%TABLE%gt% 
1.2. households 
%gt%TABLE%gt% 
2. For economic activities, statistical units are local units or kind-of-activity units, as defined in Council Regulation (EEC) No 696/93 of 15 March 1993 on the statistical units for the observation and analysis of the production system in the Community(1), according to each Member State's statistical system. 
In the quality report, to be produced under Section 7, a description of how the chosen statistical unit affects the groupings of NACE REV 1 data distribution should be included. 
(1) OJ L 76, 30.3.1993, p. 2. Regulation amended by the 1994 Act of Accession. 
ANNEX II 
RECOVERY AND DISPOSAL OF WASTE 
SECTION 1 
Coverage 
1. The statistics are to be compiled for all recovery and disposal facilities which run any of the operations referred to in Section 8(2) and which belong to or are part of the economic activities according to the groupings of NACE REV 1, mentioned in Annex I, Section 8(1.1). 
2. Facilities whose waste treatment activities are limited to the recycling of waste on the site where the waste was generated, are not covered by this Annex. 
SECTION 2 
Waste categories 
The list of waste categories for which the statistics are to be compiled, according to each recovery or disposal operation as referred to in section 8(2), are the following: 
%gt%TABLE%gt% 
%gt%TABLE%gt% 
%gt%TABLE%gt% 
SECTION 3 
Characteristics 
The characteristics, for which the statistics are to be compiled on recovery and disposal operations, as referred to in Section 8(2) are set out in the table below. 
%gt%TABLE%gt% 
SECTION 4 
Reporting unit 
The reporting unit to be used for all waste categories is 1000 tonnes of (normal) wet waste. For the waste categories %quot%sludge%quot% an additional figure for dry matter should be provided. 
SECTION 5 
First reference year and periodicity 
1. The first reference year is the second calendar year following the entry into force of this Regulation. 
2. Member States shall furnish data for every second year, after the first reference year, for the facilities which are referred to in Section 8(2). 
SECTION 6 
Transmission of results to Eurostat 
The results are to be transmitted within 18 months of the end of the reference year. 
SECTION 7 
Report on the coverage and quality of statistics 
1. For the characteristics listed in Section 3, and for each item amongst the types of operations listed in Section 8(2) Member States will indicate the percentage to which the compiled statistics represent the universe of waste of the respective item. The minimum requirement for the coverage will be defined in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 7(2) of this Regulation. 
2. For the characteristics listed in Section 3 Member States will submit a quality report, indicating the degree of precision of the collected data. 
3. The Commission will include the coverage and quality reports in the report provided for in Article 8 of this Regulation. 
SECTION 8 
Production of results 
1. The results are to be compiled for each item amongst the types of operations listed in Section 8(2), according to the characteristics as referred to in Section 3. 
2. List of Recovery and Disposal Operations; the codes refer to the codes in the Annexes to Directive 75/442/EEC: 
%gt%TABLE%gt% 
3. The Commission will draw up a programme for pilot studies, to be carried out on a voluntary basis by Member States. The pilot studies will aim to assess the relevance and feasibility of obtaining data on the amounts of waste conditioned by preparatory operations, as defined in Annexes II.A and II.B of Directive 75/442/EEC. The Commission will finance up to 100 % of the costs for conducting these pilot studies. On the basis of the conclusions of these pilot studies, the Commission will adopt the necessary implementation measures in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 7(2) of this Regulation. 
4. Statistical units are local units or kind-of-activity units, as defined in Regulation (EEC) No 696/93, according to each Member State's statistical system. 
In the quality report, to be produced under Section 7, a description of how the chosen statistical unit affects the groupings of NACE REV 1 data distribution should be included. 
ANNEX III 
WASTE STATISTICAL NOMENCLATURE 
as referred to in Annex I, Section 2(1) and Annex II, Section 2 EWC-Stat REV 2 (mainly substance oriented waste statistical nomenclature) 
01 compound wastes 
01.1 Spent solvents 
01.11 Halogenated spent solvents 
1 Hazardous 
aqueous solvent mixes containing halogens 
chlorofluorocarbons 
degreasing wastes containing solvents without a liquid phase 
halogenated solvents and solvent mixes 
organic halogenated solvents, washing liquids and mother liquors 
other halogenated solvents 
other halogenated solvents and solvent mixes 
sludges containing halogenated solvents 
sludges or solid wastes containing halogenated solvents 
01.12 Non halogenated spent solvents 
0 Non-hazardous 
wastes from solvent extraction 
1 Hazardous 
aqueous solvent mixes free of halogens 
other organic solvents, washing liquids and mother liquors 
other solvents and solvent mixes 
sludges containing other solvents 
sludges or solid wastes containing other solvents 
sludges or solid wastes free of halogenated solvents 
solvent mixes or organic liquids free of halogenated solvents 
solvents 
solvents and solvent mixes free of halogenated solvents 
01.2 Acid, alkaline or saline wastes 
01.21 Acid wastes 
0 Non-hazardous 
cyanide-free wastes not containing chromium 
acids 
1 Hazardous 
acidic pickling solutions 
acids not otherwise specified 
bleach solutions and bleach fixer solutions 
cyanide-free wastes containing chromium 
electrolyte from batteries and accumulators 
fixer solutions 
hydrochloric acid 
nitric acid and nitrous acid 
phosphoric and phosphorous acid 
sulphuric acid 
sulphuric acid and sulphurous acid 
waste not otherwise specified 
01.22 Alkaline wastes 
0 Non-hazardous 
alkalines 
1 Hazardous 
alkalis not otherwise specified 
ammonia 
calcium hydroxide 
cyanidic (alkaline) wastes containing heavy metals other than chromium 
cyanidic (alkaline) wastes which do not contain heavy metals 
metal hydroxide sludges and other sludges from metal insolubilisation treatment 
soda 
solvent based developer solutions 
wastes containing cyanide 
wastes not otherwise specified 
water based developer and activator solutions 
water based offset plate developer solutions 
01.23 Saline solutions 
0 Non-hazardous 
saline solutions containing sulphates, sulphites or sulphides 
saline solutions containing chlorides, fluorides and halides 
saline solutions containing phosphates and related solid salts 
saline solutions containing nitrates and related compounds 
1 Hazardous 
waste from electrolytic refining 
01.24 Other saline wastes 
0 Non-hazardous 
barite-containing drilling muds and wastes 
carbonates 
chloride-containing drilling muds and wastes 
metallic oxides 
phosphates and related solid salts 
salts and solutions containing organic compounds 
sludges from copper hydrometallurgy 
solid salts containing ammonium 
solid salts containing chlorides, fluorides and other halogenated solid salts 
solid salts containing nitrides (nitrometallic) 
solid salts containing sulphates, sulphites or sulphides 
waste containing sulphur 
waste from potash and rock salt processing 
wastes not otherwise specified 
1 Hazardous 
metallic salts 
other wastes 
phosphatizing sludges 
salt slags from secondary smelting 
salts and solutions containing cyanides 
sludges from zinc hydrometallurgy (including jarosite, goethite) 
waste from treatment of salt slags and black drosses treatment 
wastes containing arsenic 
wastes containing mercury 
wastes containing other heavy metals 
01.3 Used oils 
01.31 Used motor oils 
1 Hazardous 
chlorinated engine, gear and lubricating oils 
non-chlorinated engine, gear and lubricating oils 
other engine, gear and lubricating oils 
01.32 Other used oils 
0 Non-hazardous 
oil-containing drilling muds and wastes 
desalted sludges 
sludges from plant, equipment and maintenance operations 
sludges from grinding, honing and lapping 
polishing sludges 
wastes not otherwise specified 
1 Hazardous 
acid alkyl sludges 
brake fluids 
chlorinated emulsions 
hydraulic oils containing only mineral oil 
hydraulic oils, containing PCBs or PCTs 
insulating or heat transmission oils and other liquids containing PCBs or PCTs 
machining sludges 
mineral insulating and heat transmission oils 
non chlorinated emulsions 
non chlorinated hydraulic oils (not emulsions) 
non-chlorinated insulating and heat transmission oils and other liquids 
oil waste not otherwise specified 
other chlorinated hydraulic oils (not emulsions) 
other chlorinated insulating and heat transmission oils and other liquids 
other hydraulic oils 
spent waxes and fats 
synthetic insulating and heat transmission oils and other liquids 
synthetic machining oils 
tank bottom sludges 
waste machining emulsions containing halogens 
waste machining emulsions free of halogens 
waste machining oils containing halogens (not emulsioned) 
waste machining oils free of halogens (not emulsioned) 
01.4 Spent chemical catalysts 
01.41 Spent chemical catalysts 
0 Non-hazardous 
other spent catalysts 
spent catalysts containing precious metals 
spent catalysts e.g. from NOx removal 
spent catalysts e.g. from removal of NOx 
02 Chemical preparation wastes 
02.1 Off-specification chemical wastes 
02.11 Agrochemical product wastes 
1 Hazardous 
agrochemical wastes 
inorganic pesticides, biocides and wood preserving agents 
pesticides 
02.12 Unused medicines 
0 Non-hazardous 
discarded chemicals and medicines 
medicines 
02.13 Paints, varnish, inks and adhesive wastes 
0 Non-hazardous 
aqueous liquid waste containing ink 
aqueous liquid wastes containing adhesives and sealants 
aqueous sludges containing adhesives and sealants 
aqueous sludges containing ink 
aqueous sludges containing paint or varnish 
aqueous suspensions containing paint or varnish 
dried ink 
dye stuffs and pigments 
hardened adhesives and sealants 
hardened paints and varnishes 
powder paints 
waste coating powders 
waste from paint or varnish removal 
waste from water-based ink 
waste from water-based paints and varnishes 
waste printing toner (including cartridges) 
wastes from water-based adhesives and sealants 
wastes not otherwise specified 
1 Hazardous 
adhesives and sealants sludges containing halogenated solvents 
adhesives and sealants sludges free of halogenated solvents 
ink sludges containing halogenated solvents 
ink sludges free of halogenated solvents 
paint, inks, adhesives and resins 
sludges from paint or varnish removal containing halogenated solvents 
sludges from paint or varnish removal free of halogenated solvents 
waste adhesives and sealants containing halogenated solvents 
waste adhesives and sealants free of halogenated solvents 
waste ink containing halogenated solvents 
waste ink free of halogenated solvents 
waste paints and varnish containing halogenated solvents 
waste paints and varnish free of halogenated solvents 
02.14 Other chemical preparation wastes 
0 Non-hazardous 
aerosols 
bleaching sludges from hypochlorite and chlorine processes 
bleaching sludges from other bleaching processes 
detergents 
industrial gases in high pressure cylinders, LPG containers and industrial aerosol containers (including halons) 
photographic film and paper containing silver or silver compounds 
waste from chemical treatment 
waste from nitrogen chemical processes and fertiliser manufacture 
wastes from preserving agents 
wastes from production of silicon and silicon derivatives 
wastes not otherwise specified 
1 Hazardous 
non-halogenated organic wood preservatives 
organochlorinated wood preservatives 
organometallic wood preservatives 
inorganic wood preservatives 
sludges containing mercury 
discarded chemicals 
photo chemicals 
02.2 Unused explosives 
02.21 Waste explosives and pyrotechnical products 
1 Hazardous 
fireworks waste 
other waste explosives 
02.22 Waste ammunition 
1 Hazardous 
waste ammunition 
02.3 Mixed chemical wastes 
02.31 Minor mixed chemical wastes 
0 Non-hazardous 
other waste containing inorganic chemicals, e.g. lab chemicals not otherwise specified, fire extinguishing powders 
other waste containing organic chemicals, e.g. lab chemicals not otherwise specified 
02.32 Chemical wastes mixed for treatment 
0 Non-hazardous 
premixed wastes for final disposal 
02.33 Packaging polluted by hazardous substances 
03 Other chemical wastes 
03.1 Chemical deposits and residues 
03.11 Tars and carbonaceous wastes 
0 Non-hazardous 
asphalt 
wastes not otherwise specified 
carbon black 
anode scraps 
wastes from the production of anodes for aqueous electrolytical processes 
1 Hazardous 
acid tars 
other tars 
tars and other carbon-containing wastes from anode manufacture 
03.12 Oils/water emulsions sludges 
1 Hazardous 
bilge oils from inland navigation 
bilge oils from jetty sewers 
desalter sludges or emulsions 
interceptor sludges 
oil/water separator sludges 
oil/water separator solids 
other emulsions 
waste from marine transport tank cleaning, containing chemicals 
waste from railway and road transport tank cleaning, containing chemicals 
waste from storage tank cleaning, containing chemicals 
03.13 Chemical reaction residues 
0 Non-hazardous 
dregs and green liquor sludge (from black liquor treatment) 
tanning liquor containing chromium 
tanning liquor free of chromium 
wastes not otherwise specified 
1 Hazardous 
aqueous washing liquids and mother liquors 
halogenated still bottoms and reaction residues 
non-vitrified solid phase 
other still bottoms and reaction residues 
03.14 Spent filtration and absorbent materials 
0 Non-hazardous 
sludges from decarbonation 
spent activated carbon 
saturated or spent ion exchange resins 
solutions and sludges from regeneration of ion exchangers 
1 Hazardous 
activated carbon from chlorine production 
filter cake from gas treatment 
halogenated filter cakes, spent absorbents 
other filter cakes, spent absorbents 
saturated or spent ion exchange resins 
solutions and sludges from regeneration of ion exchangers 
spent activated carbon 
spent filter clays 
03.2 Industrial effluent sludges 
03.21 Sludges from industrial processes and effluent treatment 
0 Non-hazardous 
anaerobic treatment sludges of animal and vegetal wastes 
anaerobic treatment sludges of municipal and similar wastes 
de-inking sludges from paper recycling 
landfill leachate 
sludges containing chromium 
sludges free of chromium 
sludges from on site effluent treatment 
sludges not otherwise specified 
wastes not otherwise specified 
03.22 Sludges containing hydrocarbons 
0 Non-hazardous 
wastes not otherwise specified 
1 Hazardous 
aqueous liquid waste from oil regeneration 
aqueous washing liquids 
steam degreasing wastes 
waste from marine transport tank cleaning, containing oil 
waste from railway and road transport tank cleaning containing oil 
waste from storage tank cleaning, containing oil 
grease and oil mixture from oil/waste water separation 
04 Radioactive wastes 
04.1 Nuclear waste 
04.11 Nuclear wastes 
04.2 Spent ionising sources 
04.21 Spent ionising sources 
04.3 Equipment and products contaminated by radioactivity 
04.31 Equipment and products contaminated by radioactivity 
04.4 Soils contaminated by radioactivity 
04.41 Soils contaminated by radioactivity 
05 Health care and biological wastes 
05.1 Infectious health care wastes 
05.11 Human infectious health care wastes 
0 Non-hazardous 
body parts and organs including blood bags and blood preserves 
1 Hazardous 
other wastes whose collection and disposal is subject to special requirements in view of the prevention of infection 
05.12 Animal infectious health care wastes 
0 Non-hazardous 
sharps 
05.2 Non-infectious health care wastes 
05.21 Non-infectious human health care wastes 
05.22 Non-infectious animal health care wastes 
05.3 Genetic engineering wastes 
05.31 Genetic engineering wastes 
1 Hazardous 
other wastes whose collection and disposal is subject to special requirements in view of the prevention of infection 
06 Metallic wastes 
06.1 Ferrous metal waste and scrap 
06.11 Ferrous metal waste and scrap 
0 Non-hazardous 
discarded moulds 
ferrous metal filings and turnings 
other ferrous metals particles 
iron and steel 
ferrous materials removed from bottom ash 
06.2 Non-ferrous metal waste and scrap 
06.21 Waste precious metal 
1 Hazardous 
waste containing silver from on-site treatment of photographic waste 
06.22 Waste aluminium packaging 
06.23 Other waste aluminium 
0 Non-hazardous 
aluminium 
06.24 Copper waste 
0 Non-hazardous 
copper, bronze, brass 
cables 
06.25 Lead waste 
0 Non-hazardous 
lead 
06.26 Other metal wastes 
0 Non-hazardous 
non-ferrous metal filings and turnings 
other non-ferrous metal particules 
zinc 
tin 
06.3 Mixed metal wastes 
06.31 Mixed metallic packaging 
0 Non-hazardous 
metallic 
small metals (cans etc) 
other metals 
06.32 Other mixed metallic wastes 
0 Non-hazardous 
wastes not otherwise specified 
mixed metals 
07 Non-metallic wastes 
07.1 Glass wastes 
07.11 Glass packaging 
0 Non-hazardous 
glass 
07.12 Other glass wastes 
0 Non-hazardous 
waste glass 
glass 
07.2 Paper and cardboard wastes 
07.21 Waste paper and cardboard packaging 
0 Non-hazardous 
paper and cardboard 
07.22 Waste composite packaging carton 
07.23 Other paper and cardboard wastes 
0 Non-hazardous 
fibre and paper sludge 
wastes not otherwise specified 
paper and cardboard 
07.3 Rubber wastes 
07.31 Used tyres 
0 Non-hazardous 
used tyres 
07.32 Other rubber wastes 
07.4 Plastic wastes 
07.41 Plastic packaging wastes 
0 Non-hazardous 
plastic 
07.42 Other plastic wastes 
0 Non-hazardous 
waste plastics (excluding packaging) 
plastics particles 
waste from the plastic convertor industry 
plastic 
small plastics 
other plastics 
07.5 Wood wastes 
07.51 Wood packaging 
0 Non-hazardous 
wooden 
07.52 Sawdust and shavings 
0 Non-hazardous 
sawdust 
shavings, cuttings, spoiled timber/particle board/veneer 
07.53 Other wood wastes 
0 Non-hazardous 
waste bark and cork 
bark 
wood 
07.6 Textile wastes 
07.61 Worn clothing 
07.62 Miscellaneous textiles wastes 
0 Non-hazardous 
absorbents, filter materials, wiping cloths, protective clothing 
clothes 
non-halogenated wastes from dressing and finishing 
textiles 
wastes from composite materials (impregnated textile, elastomer, plastomer) 
wastes from processed mixed textile fibres 
wastes from processed textile fibres mainly of animal origin 
wastes from processed textile fibres mainly of artificial or synthetic origin 
wastes from processed textile fibres mainly of vegetable origin 
wastes from unprocessed mixed textile fibres before spinning and weaving 
wastes from unprocessed textile fibres and other natural fibrous substances mainly of vegetable origin 
wastes from unprocessed textile fibres mainly artificial or synthetic 
wastes from unprocessed textile fibres mainly of animal origin 
1 Hazardous 
halogenated wastes from dressing and finishing 
07.63 Leather wastes 
0 Non-hazardous 
waste tanned leather (blue sheetings, shavings, cuttings, buffing dust) containing chromium 
wastes from dressing and finishing 
wastes not otherwise specified 
08 Discarded equipment 
08.1 Discarded vehicles 
08.11 Discarded private cars 
0 Non-hazardous 
end of life vehicles 
08.12 Other discarded vehicles 
0 Non-hazardous 
discarded vehicles 
08.2 Discarded electrical and electronic equipment 
08.21 Discarded major household equipment 
08.22 Discarded minor household equipment 
08.23 Other discarded electrical and electronic equipment 
0 Non-hazardous 
single-use cameras with batteries 
single use cameras without batteries 
other discarded electronic equipment (e.g. printed circuit boards) 
electronic equipment (e.g. printed circuit boards) 
08.3 Bulky household equipment 
08.31 Bulky household equipment 
08.4 Discarded machines and equipment components 
08.41 Batteries and accumulators wastes 
0 Non-hazardous 
alkaline batteries 
other batteries and accumulators 
batteries 
1 Hazardous 
transformers and capacitors containing PCB or PCTs 
lead batteries 
Ni-Cd batteries 
mercury dry cells 
08.42 Spent catalytic equipment 
0 Non-hazardous 
catalysts removed from vehicles containing precious metals 
other catalysts removed from vehicles 
08.43 Other discarded machines and equipment components 
0 Non-hazardous 
wastes not otherwise specified 
equipment containing chlorofluorocarbons 
other discarded equipment 
equipment containing chloroflurocarbons 
1 Hazardous 
fluorescent tubes and other mercury containing waste 
09 Animal and vegetal wastes 
09.1 Waste of food preparation and products 
09.11 Animal waste of food preparation and products 
0 Non-hazardous 
animal tissue waste 
sludges from washing and cleaning 
fleshings and lime split waste 
liming waste 
organic matter from natural products (e.g. grease, wax) 
09.12 Vegetal waste of food preparation and products 
0 Non-hazardous 
sludges from washing and cleaning 
plant tissue waste 
sludges from washing, cleaning, peeling, centrifuging and separation 
materials unsuitable for consumption or processing 
wastes not otherwise specified 
wastes from washing, cleaning and mechanical reduction of the raw material 
sludges from on-site effluent treatment 
09.13 Mixed waste of food preparation and products 
0 Non-hazardous 
materials unsuitable for consumption or processing 
oil and fat 
organic compostable kitchen waste (including frying oil and kitchen waste from canteens and restaurants) 
wastes not otherwise specified 
09.2 Green wastes 
09.21 Green wastes 
0 Non-hazardous 
waste from forestry exploitation 
compostable wastes 
09.3 Animal faeces, urine and manure 
09.31 Slurry and manure 
0 Non-hazardous 
animal faeces, urine and manure (including spoiled straw), effluent, collected separately and treated off-site 
10 Mixed ordinary wastes 
10.1 Household and similar wastes 
10.11 Household wastes 
0 Non-hazardous 
mixed municipal waste 
10.12 Street cleaning wastes 
0 Non-hazardous 
waste from markets 
street cleaning residues 
10.2 Mixed and undifferentiated materials 
10.21 Mixed packaging 
0 Non-hazardous 
mixed 
10.22 Other mixed and undifferentiated materials 
0 Non-hazardous 
aqueous liquid waste from vitrified waste tempering 
composite packaging 
inorganic off-specification batches 
organic off-specification batches 
other inorganic wastes with metals not otherwise specified 
photographic film and paper free of silver or silver compounds 
solid wastes from ship cargoes 
spent blasting grit 
waste not otherwise specified 
wastes whose collection and disposal is not subject to special requirements in view of the prevention of infection 
wastes whose collection and disposal is not subject to special requirements in view of the prevention of infection (e.g. dressing, plaster casts, linen, disposable clothing, diapers) 
welding wastes 
10.3 Sorting residues 
10.31 Vehicle shredder wastes 
0 Non-hazardous 
light fraction from automobile shredding 
10.32 Other sorting residues 
0 Non-hazardous 
rejects from paper and cardboard recycling 
shredder residues 
non-composted fraction of municipal and similar wastes 
non-composted fraction of animal and vegetable wastes 
off specification compost 
wastes not otherwise specified 
screenings 
11 Common sludges 
11.1 Waste water treatment sludges 
11.11 Sludges from treatment of public sewerage water 
0 Non-hazardous 
sludges from treatment of urban waste water 
11.12 Biodegradable sludges from treatment of other waste water 
0 Non-hazardous 
sludges from on-site effluent treatment 
waste from cooling columns 
wastes not otherwise specified 
sludges from the treatment of industrial waste water 
wastes not otherwise specified 
11.2 Sludges from purification of drinking and process water 
11.21 Sludges from purification of drinking and process water 
0 Non-hazardous 
boiler feedwater sludges 
sludges from water clarification 
wastes not otherwise specified 
11.3 Unpolluted dredging spoils 
11.31 Unpolluted dredging spoils 
0 Non-hazardous 
dredging spoil 
11.4 Cesspit contents 
11.41 Cesspit contents 
0 Non-hazardous 
septic tank sludge 
12 Mineral wastes 
12.1 Construction and demolition wastes 
12.11 Concrete, bricks and gypsum waste 
0 Non-hazardous 
wastes not otherwise specified 
wastes from other cement-based composite materials 
concrete 
bricks 
gypsum based construction materials 
12.12 Waste hydrocarbonised road-surfacing material 
0 Non-hazardous 
asphalt containing tar 
asphalt (not containing tar) 
tar and tar products 
1 Hazardous 
insulation materials containing asbestos 
12.13 Mixed construction wastes 
0 Non-hazardous 
other insulation materials 
mixed construction and demolition waste 
12.2 Asbestos wastes 
12.21 Asbestos wastes 
0 Non-hazardous 
wastes from asbestos-cement manufacture 
discarded equipment containing free asbestos 
wastes from the asbestos processing industry 
asbestos based construction materials 
1 Hazardous 
wastes containing asbestos from electrolysis 
12.3 Waste of naturally occurring minerals 
12.31 Waste of naturally occurring minerals 
0 Non-hazardous 
aqueous sludges containing ceramic materials 
dusty and powdery waste 
fresh-water drilling muds and wastes 
other non-compostable wastes 
red mud from the alumina production 
soil and stones 
soil from cleaning and washing beet 
solid wastes from primary filtration and screening 
tailings 
waste from mineral metaliferous excavation 
waste from mineral non-metaliferous excavation 
waste from stone cutting and sawing 
waste from the dressing of metalferous minerals 
waste from the dressing of non-metalferous minerals 
waste from washing and cleaning of minerals 
waste gravel and crushed rocks 
waste preparation mixture before thermal processing 
waste sand and clays 
wastes from desanding 
wastes not otherwise specified 
12.4 Combustion wastes 
12.41 Waste from flue gas purification 
0 Non-hazardous 
calcium based reaction wastes from flue gas desulphurisation in sludge form 
calcium based reaction wastes from flue gas desulphurisation in solid form 
flue gas dust 
other sludges from gas treatment 
other solid wastes from gas treatment 
sludges from gas treatment 
solid wastes from gas treatment 
1 Hazardous 
aqueous liquid waste from gas treatment and other aqueous liquid wastes 
flue gas dust 
fly ash and other flue gas treatment wastes 
sludges from gas treatment 
solid waste from gas treatment 
12.42 Slags and ashes from thermal treatment and combustion 
0 Non-hazardous 
aqueous sludges from boiler cleansing 
bottom ash 
bottom ash and slag 
dross and skimmings (first and second smelting) 
furnace dust 
furnace slag 
other particulates and dust 
other particulates and dust (including ball mill dust) 
other sludges 
peat fly ash 
phosphorous slag 
pyrolysis wastes 
slags (first and second smelting) 
solid waste from gas treatment 
unprocessed slag 
waste from the processing of slag 
wastes not otherwise specified 
1 Hazardous 
black drosses from secondary smelting 
boiler dust 
calcium arsenate 
dross and skimmings (first and second smelting) 
fly ash 
oil fly ash 
other particulates and dust 
primary smelting slags/white drosses 
skimmings 
slags (first and second smelting) 
12.5 Various mineral wastes 
12.51 Artificial mineral wastes 
0 Non-hazardous 
alumina dust 
aqueous suspensions containing ceramic materials 
gypsum from titanium dioxide production 
off specification calcium carbonate 
other particulates and dust 
phosphogypsum 
tiles and ceramics 
waste from calcination and hydration of lime 
waste glass-based fibrous materials 
wastes from spirits distillation 
wastes not otherwise specified 
12.52 Waste refractory materials 
0 Non-hazardous 
casting cores and moulds containing organic binders which have not undergone pouring 
casting cores and moulds containing organic binders which have undergone pouring 
furnace dust 
spent linings and refractories 
used carbon strips and fireproof materials from electrolysis 
wastes not otherwise specified 
1 Hazardous 
spent pot linings 
spent activated carbon from flue gas treatment 
12.6 Contaminated soils and polluted dredging spoils 
12.61 Polluted soils and rubble 
1 Hazardous 
oil spills 
12.62 Polluted dredging spoils 
13 Solidified, stabilised or vitrified waste 
13.1 Solidified or stabilised waste 
13.11 Solidified or stabilised waste 
0 Non-hazardous 
wastes stabilised/solidified with hydraulic binders 
wastes stabilised/solidified with organic binders 
wastes stabilised by biological treatment 
13.2 Vitrified wastes 
13.21 Vitrified wastes 
0 Non-hazardous 
vitrified wastes 
