84/247/EEC: Commission Decision of 27 April 1984 laying down the criteria for the recognition of breeders' organizations and associations which maintain or establish herd-books for pure-bred breeding animals of the bovine species 
***** 
COMMISSION DECISION 
of 27 April 1984 
laying down the criteria for the recognition of breeders' organizations and associations which maintain or establish herd-books for pure-bred breeding animals of the bovine species 
(84/247/EEC) 
THE COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN 
COMMUNITIES, 
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, 
Having regard to Council Directive 77/504/EEC of 25 July 1977 on pure-bred breeding animals of the bovine species (1), as last amended by the Act of Accession of Greece, and in particular the second and third indents of Article 6 (1) thereof, 
Whereas, under the second and third indents of Article 6 (1) of Directive 77/504/EEC it is for the Commission to determine, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 8 of the abovementioned Directive, the criteria governing the recognition of breeders' organizations and associations and the criteria governing the establishment of herd-books; 
Whereas in all the Member States, with the exception at present of Greece, herd-books are maintained or established by breeders' organizations and associations; whereas it is therefore necessary to lay down the criteria for the recognition of breeders' organizations and associations which maintain or establish herd-books; 
Whereas a breeders' organization or association must apply for official recognition to the competent authorities of the Member State on whose territory its headquarters are situated; 
Whereas, where a breeders' organization or association meets certain criteria and has defined targets, it must be officially recognized by the authorities of the Member State to which it has applied; 
Whereas the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Zootechnics, 
HAS ADOPTED THIS DECISION: 
Article 1 
In order to be officially recognized, a breeders' organization or association which maintains or establishes herd-books must submit an application to the authorities of the Member State on whose territory its headquarters are situated. 
Article 2 
The authorities of the Member State concerned must grant official recognition to any breeders' organization or association which maintains or establishes herd-books if the latter meet the conditions laid down in the Annex. 
However, in a Member State in which in respect of a given breed one or more officially recognized organizations or associations already exists, the authorities of the Member State concerned may refuse to recognize a new breeders' organization or association if it endangers the preservation of the breed or jeopardizes the zootechnical programme of the existing organization or association. In such a case, the Member States shall inform the Commission of approvals granted and refusals to give recognition. 
Article 3 
The authorities of the Member State concerned shall withdraw official recognition from any breeders' organization or association which maintains herd-books if the conditions laid down in the Annex are no longer being fulfilled in a persistent manner by the breeders' organization or association concerned. 
Article 4 
This Decision is addressed to the Member States. 
Done at Brussels, 27 April 1984. 
For the Commission 
Poul DALSAGER 
Member of the Commission 
(1) OJ No L 206, 12. 8. 1977, p. 8. 
ANNEX 
In order to be officially recognized, a breeders' organization or association which maintains or establishes a herd-book must: 
1. have legal personality in accordance with the legislation in force in the Member State where the application is made; 
2. prove to the competent authorities: 
(a) that it operates efficiently; 
(b) that it can carry out the checks necessary for recording pedigrees; 
(c) that it has a sufficiently large herd to carry out a breed improvement programme, or 
that it has a sufficiently large herd to preserve the breed where this is considered necessary; 
(d) that it can make use of the livestock performance data necessary for carrying out its breed improvement or preservation programme; 
3. have a set of rules covering: 
(a) the definition of the breed's (or breeds') characteristics; 
(b) the system for identifying animals; 
(c) the system for recording pedigrees; 
(d) the definition of its breeding objectives, 
(e) the systems for making use of livestock performance data, 
(f) the division of the herd-book, if there are different conditions for entering animals or if there are different procedures for classifying the animals entered in the book; 
4. have rules of procedure, adopted in accordance with its articles of association, laying down, in particular, the principle of non-discrimination between members. 
