2005/736/EC: Council Decision of 13 December 2004 on the signing and provisional application of a Protocol to the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement establishing an Association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Czech Republic, the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Malta, the Republic of Poland, the Republic of Slovenia, and the Slovak Republic to the European Union 
Council Decision 
of 13 December 2004 
on the signing and provisional application of a Protocol to the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement establishing an Association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Czech Republic, the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Malta, the Republic of Poland, the Republic of Slovenia, and the Slovak Republic to the European Union 
(2005/736/EC) 
THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, 
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular Article 310 in conjunction with the second sentence of Article 300(2) thereof, 
Having regard to the 2003 Act of Accession, and in particular Article 6(2) thereof, 
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission, 
Whereas: 
(1) On 10 February 2004, the Council authorised the Commission, on behalf of the European Community and its Member States, to open negotiations with the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, hereinafter referred to as "Jordan", with a view to adjusting the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement establishing an Association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, of the other part [1], to take account of the accession of the new Member States to the EU. 
(2) These negotiations have been concluded to the satisfaction of the Commission. 
(3) The text of the Protocol negotiated with Jordan provides, in Article 10(2), for the provisional application of the Protocol before its entry into force. 
(4) Subject to its conclusion at a later date, the Protocol should be signed on behalf of the Community and its Member States, and applied provisionally, 
HAS DECIDED AS FOLLOWS: 
Article 1 
The President of the Council is hereby authorised to designate the person(s) empowered to sign, on behalf of the European Community and its Member States, and subject to its conclusion, the Protocol to the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement establishing an Association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Czech Republic, the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Malta, the Republic of Poland, the Republic of Slovenia, and the Slovak Republic to the European Union. 
The text of the Protocol is attached to this Decision. 
Article 2 
The European Community and its Member States hereby agree to apply provisionally the terms of the Protocol, subject to its conclusion. 
Done at Brussels, 13 December 2004. 
For the Council 
The President 
B. R. Bot 
[1] OJ L 129, 15.5.2002, p. 3. 
-------------------------------------------------- 
