Commission opinion 
of 3 August 2005 
concerning the modified plan for the disposal of radioactive waste at the TU5 Facility on the COGEMA Pierrelatte site in France, in accordance with Article 37 of the Euratom Treaty 
(2005/C 190/04) 
(Only the French text is authentic) 
On 13 December 2004, the European Commission received from the Government of France, in accordance with Article 37 of the Euratom Treaty, General Data relating to the modified plan for the disposal of radioactive waste at the TU5 Facility on the COGEMA Pierrelatte site. 
On the basis of the General Data and the additional information requested by the Commission on 3 March 2005 and provided by the French authorities on 5 April 2005, and following consultation with the Group of Experts, the Commission has drawn up the following opinion: 
1. The distance between the plant and the nearest point on the territory of another Member State, in this case Italy, is approximately 175 km. 
2. Among the modifications to the TU5 facility described in the General Data, it is noted that since 2002 the facility converts uranyl nitrate from the COGEMA Marcoule site causing discharges of 3H and 14C in the gaseous and liquid effluents. 
3. During normal operation, the gaseous and liquid effluents released from the modified TU5 installation including 3H and 14C will not cause an exposure of the population in other Member States that is significant from the point of view of health. 
4. In the event of unplanned releases of radioactive effluents resulting from an accident of the type and magnitude considered in the General Data, the modification will not give rise to any significant effect from the point of view of health on the population of another Member State. 
In conclusion, the Commission is of the opinion that the implementation of the modified plan for the disposal of radioactive waste in whatever form at the TU5 Facility on the COGEMA Pierrelatte site in France, both in normal operation and in the event of an accident of the type and magnitude considered in the General Data, is not liable to result in radioactive contamination, significant from the point of view of health, of the water, soil or airspace of another Member State. 
-------------------------------------------------- 
