P6_TA(2004)0099 
EU-Russia Summit 
European Parliament resolution on the EU-Russia Summit held in The Hague on 25 November 2004 
The European Parliament, 
- having regard to the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement [1] between the European Communities and their Member States and Russia which entered into force on 1 December 1997 and the Joint Statement on EU enlargement and EU-Russia relations signed on 27 April 2004 and confirmed by both the European Parliament and the Russian Duma in October 2004, 
- having regard to its previous resolutions on Russia and Chechnya and, in particular, its recommendation of 26 February 2004 to the Council on EU-Russia relations [2], 
- having regard to the outcome of the 14th EU-Russia Summit held in The Hague on 25 November 2004, 
- having regard to the Commission Communication to the Council and the European Parliament entitled "Wider Europe â&#x20AC;&#x201D; Neighbourhood: a new framework for relations with our eastern and southern neighbours" (COM(2003)0104), 
- having regard to Rule 103(4) of its Rules of Procedure, 
A. whereas enhanced cooperation and good neighbourly relations between the EU and Russia are of key importance to the stability, security and prosperity of the whole of Europe, 
B. whereas both sides underline the importance of the strategic EU-Russia partnership and their intention to further intensify their cooperation in Europe and beyond based on shared interests and common values, in particular democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights, 
C. whereas the EU after its last enlargement is deeply committed to the implementation of the European Neighbourhood Policy as one of the top priorities of its external actions, with the subsequent further involvement in the resolution of conflicts in Transdnistria and South Caucasus, 
D. whereas both the EU and Russia regard countries in their common neighbourhood as areas for the establishment and maintenance of whose stability they both share responsibility, 
E. whereas the EU-Russia Summit in St Petersburg in May 2003 decided to adopt four common areas, adding an area of freedom, security and justice, an area of external security and an area of research, education and culture to the Common Economic Area that had been agreed on two years earlier, 
F. whereas, at the 14th EU-Russia Summit, the participants agreed to postpone the establishment of the four common areas until the next EU-Russia Summit in Moscow in May 2005, 
G. underlining that any further development in the building of a genuine strategic partnership must be linked to a concrete improvement in the present situation and that the values of democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights, which form the basis of this partnership must be fully shared, 
H. whereas the EU and Russia have a joint responsibility to bring about peaceful solutions to conflicts in their immediate vicinities, 
I. whereas the lack of viable solutions in Chechnya has resulted in terrorist acts spreading to the neighbouring republics, and whereas human rights abuses linked to Russian security forces are continuing, 
1. Regrets the lack of substantial progress on the establishment of the four common areas during the 14th EU-Russia Summit in The Hague, but notes the ambition to deepen the dialogue on a variety of issues such as minorities, human rights and fundamental rights and hopes that this dialogue will lead to concrete results; 
2. Takes the view that the four areas must be treated as one package and should not be separated from one another; 
3. Expresses its intention to strengthen cooperation between the EU and Russia with a view to the creation of the four common areas; 
4. Calls on the Commission and the Council to make full use of existing tools and programmes such as TACIS in support of the development of civil society in Russia and insists that future instruments must also strive to enhance democracy and respect for the rule of law; 
5. Welcomes the ratification of the Kyoto Protocol to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change by the Duma on 22 October 2004; stresses the positive impact that signing up to the Kyoto Protocol will have in enhancing the long-term strategic partnership between the EU and Russia; hopes that other global players will be encouraged to follow Russia's example, and calls on all sides to make additional efforts to improve energy efficiency and to develop energies that produce zero CO2 emissions; 
6. Welcomes the extension of the Partnership and Cooperation agreement to the new Member States and the firm commitment of the two sides to continue to work actively to fulfil the commitments contained in the abovementioned Joint Statement; 
7. Welcomes the announcement made by President Putin at the Summit that Russia will sign "in the near future" the border agreements with Estonia and Latvia; 
8. Stresses the need for the EU and Russia to intensify political dialogue, in particular in cooperating to achieve the common goal of strengthening multilateral organisations such as the UN and the WTO; 
9. Recognises that Russia has a special interest in maintaining good relations with many of its neighbouring countries such as Belarus, Ukraine, Moldova or those in the South Caucasus; stresses, however, that Russia should adhere to the principle of non-interference in the internal affairs of sovereign states, in particular in the case of elections; 
10. Is concerned about the path of the democratisation process in Russia and the further accumulation of powers by the central government in Moscow, such as the appointment of supreme court judges, governors and mayors of large towns by the President of Russia; expresses its concern at stricter media control and restrictions on the freedom of press; 
11. Strongly condemns the recent terrorist attacks against the civilian population in Russia and other neighbouring countries, and welcomes measures to increase EU-Russia counter-terrorism cooperation measures as long as these measures fully respect human rights and fundamental freedoms and do not lead to an erosion of democratic rights or civil society; 
12. Is seriously concerned about the persistent and recurring mass violations of humanitarian law and human rights committed against the civilian population of Chechnya by Russian forces; calls on Russia to strive for a credible peace and reconciliation process, and reiterates that there can only be an inclusive, negotiated, political solution and not a military solution; 
13. Welcomes the Council's proposal for closer cooperation in crisis management and expects of Russia a more sincere and constructive role as regards the conflicts in Transdnistria and South Caucasus; 
14. Underlines that the development of the Kaliningrad region is an important factor for the overall development of the Baltic Sea area and therefore encourages Russia and other parties concerned to promote the social and economic development of the region through its openness and economic integration; 
15. Deplores President Putin's announcement that Russia is developing new nuclear weapons; 
16. Calls on the EU and Russia to coordinate their positions on the reform of the UN system, and in particular the future reform of the UN Security Council; is concerned about signs of strains within the EU-Russia relationship due to recent events, particularly in Ukraine; 
17. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council, the Commission, the Member States, the President and Parliament of the Russian Federation, the OSCE and the Council of Europe. 
[1] OJ L 327, 28.11.1997, p. 1. 
[2] OJ C 98 E, 23.4.2004, p. 182. 
-------------------------------------------------- 
