Notice of initiation of an anti-dumping proceeding concerning imports of certain iron or steel ropes and cables originating in the Republic of Korea 
(2004/C 283/05) 
The Commission has received a complaint pursuant to Article 5 of Council Regulation (EC) No 384/96 [1] (the basic Regulation), alleging that imports of certain iron or steel ropes and cables, originating in the Republic of Korea (the country concerned), are being dumped and are thereby causing material injury to the Community industry. 
1. Complaint 
The complaint was lodged on 11 October 2004 by the Liaison Committee of European Wire Rope Industries (EWRIS) (the complainant) on behalf of producers representing a major proportion, in this case more than 50 %, of the total Community production of certain iron or steel ropes and cables. 
2. Product 
The product allegedly being dumped is ropes and cables, including locked coil ropes, of iron or steel but not stainless steel, with a maximum cross-sectional dimension exceeding 3 mm, with attached fittings or not originating in the Republic of Korea (the product concerned), normally declared within CN codes 73121082, 73121084, 73121086, 73121088 and 73121099. These CN codes are only given for information. 
3. Allegation of dumping 
The allegation of dumping in respect of the Republic of Korea is based on a comparison of normal value established on the basis of domestic prices, with the export prices of the product concerned when sold to the Community. 
On this basis, the dumping margin calculated is significant. 
4. Allegation of injury 
The complainant has provided evidence that imports of the product concerned from the Republic of Korea have increased overall in absolute terms and in terms of market share. 
It is alleged that the volumes and the prices of the imported product concerned have, among other consequences, had a negative impact on the level of prices charged by the Community industry, resulting in substantial adverse effects on the financial situation of the Community industry. 
5. Procedure 
Having determined, after consulting the Advisory Committee, that the complaint has been lodged by or on behalf of the Community industry and that there is sufficient evidence to justify the initiation of a proceeding, the Commission hereby initiates an investigation pursuant to Article 5 of the basic Regulation. 
5.1. Procedure for the determination of dumping and injury 
The investigation will determine whether the product concerned originating in the Republic of Korea is being dumped and whether this dumping has caused injury. 
(a) Sampling 
In view of the apparent large number of parties involved in this proceeding, the Commission may decide to apply sampling in accordance with Article 17 of the basic Regulation. 
(i) Sampling for exporters/producers in the Republic of Korea 
In order to enable the Commission to decide whether sampling is necessary and, if so, to select a sample, all exporters/producers, or representatives acting on their behalf, are hereby requested to make themselves known by contacting the Commission and providing the following information on their company or companies within the time limit set in paragraph 6(b)(i) and in the format indicated in paragraph 7 of this notice: 
- name, address, e-mail address, telephone, and fax, and/or telex numbers and contact person, 
- the turnover in local currency and the volume in tonnes of the product concerned sold for export to the Community during the period, 1 July 2003 to 30 June 2004, 
- the turnover in local currency and the sales volume in tonnes for the product concerned on the domestic market during the period 1 July 2003 to 30 June 2004, 
- whether the company intends to claim an individual margin [2] (individual margins can only be claimed by producers), 
- the precise activities of the company with regard to the production of the product concerned, 
- the names and the precise activities of all related companies [3] involved in the production and/or selling (export and/or domestic) of the product concerned, 
- any other relevant information that would assist the Commission in the selection of the sample, 
- an indication of whether the company or companies agree to their inclusion in the sample, which implies replying to a questionnaire and accepting an on-the-spot investigation of their response. 
In order to obtain the information it deems necessary for the selection of the sample of exporters/producers, the Commission will, in addition, contact the authorities of the exporting country and any known associations of exporters/producers. 
(ii) Sampling for importers 
In order to enable the Commission to decide whether sampling is necessary and, if so, to select a sample, all importers, or representatives acting on their behalf, are hereby requested to make themselves known to the Commission and to provide the following information on their company or companies within the time limit set in paragraph 6(b)(i) and in the formats indicated in point 7 of this notice: 
- name, address, e-mail address, telephone, and fax, and/or telex numbers and contact person, 
- the total turnover in euro of the company during the period 1 July 2003 to 30 June 2004, 
- the total number of employees, 
- the precise activities of the company with regard to the product concerned, 
- the volume in tonnes and value in euro of imports into and resales made in the Community market during the period 1 July 2003 to 30 June 2004 of the imported product concerned originating in the Republic of Korea, 
- the names and the precise activities of all related companies [0] involved in the production and/or selling of the product concerned, 
- any other relevant information that would assist the Commission in the selection of the sample, 
- an indication of whether the company or companies agree to their inclusion in the sample, which implies replying to a questionnaire and accepting an on-the-spot investigation of their response. 
In order to obtain the information it deems necessary for the selection of the sample of importers, the Commission will, in addition, contact any known associations of importers. 
(iii) Sampling for Community producers 
In view of the large number of Community producers supporting the complaint, the Commission intends to investigate injury to the Community industry by applying sampling. 
In order to enable the Commission to select a sample, all Community producers are hereby requested to provide the following information on their company or companies within the time limit set in paragraph 6(b)(i) of this notice: 
- name, address, e-mail address, telephone, and fax, and/or telex numbers and contact person, 
- the total turnover in euro of the company during the period 1 July 2003 to 30 June 2004, 
- the precise activities of the company with regard to the production of the product concerned, 
- the value in euro of sales of the product concerned made in the Community market during the period 1 July 2003 to 30 June 2004, 
- the volume in tonnes of sales of the product concerned made in the Community market during the period 1 July 2003 to 30 June 2004, 
- the volume in tonnes of the production of the product concerned during the period 1 July 2003 to 30 June 2004, 
- the names and the precise activities of all related companies [0] involved in the production and/or selling of the product concerned, 
- any other relevant information that would assist the Commission in the selection of the sample, 
- an indication of whether the company or companies agree to their inclusion in the sample, which implies replying to a questionnaire and accepting an on-the-spot investigation of their response. 
(iv) Final selection of the samples 
All interested parties wishing to submit any relevant information regarding the selection of the samples must do so within the time limit set in paragraph 6(b)(ii) of this notice. 
The Commission intends to make the final selection of the samples after having consulted the parties concerned that have expressed their willingness to be included in the sample. 
Companies included in the samples must reply to a questionnaire within the time limit set in paragraph 6(b)(iii) of this notice and must cooperate within the framework of the investigation. 
If sufficient cooperation is not forthcoming, the Commission may base its findings, in accordance with Articles 17(4) and 18 of the basic Regulation, on the facts available. A finding based on facts available may be less advantageous to the party concerned, as explained in paragraph 8 of this notice. 
(b) Questionnaires 
In order to obtain the information it deems necessary for its investigation, the Commission will send questionnaires to the sampled Community industry and to any association of producers in the Community, to the sampled exporters/producers in the Republic of Korea, to any association of exporters/producers, to the sampled importers, to any association of importers named in the complaint, and to the authorities of the exporting country concerned. 
In any event, all parties should contact the Commission forthwith by fax, but not later than the time limit set out in paragraph 6(a)(i) of this notice, in order to find out whether they are listed in the complaint and, if necessary, request a questionnaire, given that the time limit set in paragraph 6(a)(ii) of this notice applies to all such interested parties. 
(c) Collection of information and holding of hearings 
All interested parties are hereby invited to make their views known, submit information other than questionnaire replies and to provide supporting evidence. This information and supporting evidence has to reach the Commission within the time limit set in paragraph 6(a)(ii) of this notice. 
Furthermore, the Commission may hear interested parties, provided that they make a request showing that there are particular reasons why they should be heard. This request must be made within the time limit set in paragraph 6(a)(iii) of this notice. 
5.2. Procedure for assessment of Community interest 
In accordance with Article 21 of the basic Regulation and in the event that the allegations of dumping and injury caused thereby are substantiated, a decision will be reached as to whether the adoption of anti-dumping measures would not be against the Community interest. For this reason the Community industry, importers, their representative associations, representative users and representative consumer organisations, provided that they prove that there is an objective link between their activity and the product concerned, may, within the general time limits set in paragraph 6(a)(ii) of this notice, make themselves known and provide the Commission with information. The parties which have acted in conformity with the precedent sentence may request a hearing setting the particular reasons why they should be heard within the time limit set in paragraph 6(a)(iii) of this notice. It should be noted that any information submitted pursuant to Article 21 will only be taken into account if supported by factual evidence at the time of submission. 
6. Time limits 
(a) General time limits 
(i) For parties to request a questionnaire 
All interested parties should request a questionnaire as soon as possible, but not later than 15 days after the publication of this notice in the Official Journal of the European Union. 
(ii) For parties to make themselves known, to submit questionnaire replies and any other information 
All interested parties, if their representations are to be taken into account during the investigation, must make themselves known by contacting the Commission, present their views and submit questionnaire replies or any other information within 40 days of the date of publication of this notice in the Official Journal of the European Union, unless otherwise specified. Attention is drawn to the fact that the exercise of most procedural rights set out in the basic Regulation depends on the party making itself known within the aforementioned period. 
Companies selected in a sample must submit questionnaire replies within the time limits specified in paragraph 6(b)(iii) of this notice. 
(iii) Hearings 
All interested parties may also apply to be heard by the Commission within the same 40 day time limit. 
(b) Specific time limit in respect of sampling 
(i) The information specified in paragraphs 5.1(a)(i), 5.1(a)(ii) and 5.1(a)(iii) should reach the Commission within 15 days of the date of publication of this notice in the Official Journal of the European Union, given that the Commission intends to consult parties concerned that have expressed their willingness to be included in the sample on its final selection within a period of 21 days of the publication of this notice in the Official Journal of the European Union. 
(ii) All other information relevant for the selection of the sample as referred to in 5.1(a)(iv) must reach the Commission within a period of 21 days of the publication of this notice in the Official Journal of the European Union. 
(iii) The questionnaire replies from sampled parties must reach the Commission within 37 days from the date of the notification of their inclusion in the sample. 
7. Written submissions, questionnaire replies and correspondence 
All submissions and requests made by interested parties must be made in writing (not in electronic format, unless otherwise specified) and must indicate the name, address, e-mail address, telephone and fax, and/or telex numbers of the interested party. All written submissions, including the information requested in this notice, questionnaire replies and correspondence provided by interested parties on a confidential basis shall be labelled as "Limited" [4] and, in accordance with Article 19(2) of the basic Regulation, shall be accompanied by a non-confidential version, which will be labelled "For inspection by interested parties". 
Commission address for correspondence: 
European Commission 
Directorate-General for Trade 
Directorate B 
Office: J-79 5/16 
B-1049 Brussels 
Fax (32-2) 295 65 05 
Telex COMEU B 21877. 
8. Non-cooperation 
In cases in which any interested party refuses access to or does not provide the necessary information within the time limits, or significantly impedes the investigation, provisional or final findings, affirmative or negative, may be made in accordance with Article 18 of the basic Regulation, on the basis of the facts available. 
Where it is found that any interested party has supplied false or misleading information, the information shall be disregarded and use may be made of the facts available. If an interested party does not cooperate or cooperates only partially and findings are therefore based on facts available in accordance with Article 18 of the basic Regulation, the result may be less favourable to that party than if it had cooperated. 
9. Schedule of the investigation 
The investigation will be concluded, according to Article 6(9) of the basic Regulation within 15 months of the date of the publication of this notice in the Official Journal of the European Union. According to Article 7(1) of the basic Regulation, provisional measures may be imposed no later than nine months from the publication of this notice in the Official Journal of the European Union. 
-------------------------------------------------- 
[1] OJ L 56, 6.3.1996, p. 1. Regulation as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 461/2004 (OJ L 77, 13.3.2004, p. 12). 
[2] Individual margins may be claimed pursuant to Article 17(3) of the basic Regulation for companies not included in the sample. 
[3] For guidance on the meaning of related companies, please refer to Article 143 of Commission Regulation (EEC) No 2454/93 concerning the implementation of the Community Customs Code (OJ L 253, 11.10.1993, p. 1). 
[0] For guidance on the meaning of related companies, please refer to Article 143 of Commission Regulation (EEC) No 2454/93 concerning the implementation of the Community Customs Code (OJ L 253, 11.10.1993, p. 1). 
[0] For guidance on the meaning of related companies, please refer to Article 143 of Commission Regulation (EEC) No 2454/93 concerning the implementation of the Community Customs Code (OJ L 253, 11.10.1993, p. 1). 
[4] This means that the document is for internal use only. It is protected pursuant to Article 4 of Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 145, 31.5.2001, p. 43). It is a confidential document pursuant to Article 19 of Council Regulation (EC) No 384/96 (OJ L 56, 6.3.1996, p. 1) and Article 6 of the WTO Agreement on Implementation of Article VI of the GATT 1994 (Anti-dumping Agreement). 
