Revision by France of a public service obligation in respect of scheduled air services between Paris (Orly) and Béziers 
Revision by France of a public service obligation in respect of scheduled air services between Paris (Orly) and Béziers 
(2006/C 291/10) 
1. France has decided to revise, with effect from 25 March 2007, the public service obligation imposed on scheduled air services between Paris (Orly) and Béziers published in Official Journal of the European Communities No C 95 of 19 April 2002 pursuant to Article 4(1)(a) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2408/92 of 23 July 1992 on access for Community air carriers to intra-Community air routes. 
2. The new public service obligation is as follows: 
2.1. Frequency 
The following minimum services must be delivered, excepting public holidays: 
- 2 daily outward flights and 2 daily return flights from Monday to Friday throughout the year; 
- 1 outward and 1 return flight on Sunday throughout the year; 
- 3 additional outward and return flights per week, 13 weeks per year; 
- 1 additional outward and flight on Saturday or Sunday, 13 weeks per year. 
On public holidays, at least one outward and one return flight must be delivered. 
2.2. Category and capacity of aircraft used 
The service must be operated with a pressurised aircraft having a seating capacity of at least 48. 
2.3. Timetables 
From Monday to Friday, the timetables must allow passengers to make the round trip within the day and to spend at least seven hours at their destination, be it Paris or Béziers. 
2.4. Flight bookings 
Seats on these flights must be marketed using at least one computerised booking system. 
2.5. Continuity of service 
Except in cases of force majeure, the number of flights cancelled for reasons directly attributable to the carrier must not exceed 3 % of the minimum number of required flights in any operating year. 
The carrier must give at least six months' notice before discontinuing these services. 
Carriers are hereby informed that the operation of air services without regard to the abovementioned public service obligation will result in administrative and/or legal penalties. 
3. Slots are currently reserved at Paris (Orly) airport for the scheduled Paris (Orly) — Béziers service pursuant to Article 9 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 95/93 of 18 January 1993 on common rules for the allocation of slots at Community airports. Carriers interested in this route can obtain information on the slots from the Paris airports coordinator. 
-------------------------------------------------- 
