Notice of initiation of a partial interim review of the antidumping measures applicable to imports of polyethylene terephthalate (PET) film originating in India 
Notice of initiation of a partial interim review of the antidumping measures applicable to imports of polyethylene terephthalate (PET) film originating in India 
(2006/C 202/09) 
The Commission has received a request for a partial interim review pursuant to Article 11(3) of Council Regulation (EC) No 384/96 on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the European Community ("the basic Regulation") [1], as last amended by Council Regulation (EC) No 2117/2005 [2]. 
1. Request for review 
The request was lodged by Community producers ("the applicant") representing more than 50 % of Community production of the product concerned. 
The review is limited in scope to the examination of dumping as far as one exporting producer, Jindal Poly Films Limited ("the company"), is concerned. 
2. Product 
The product under review is polyethylene terephthalate (PET) film originating in India ("the product concerned"), currently classifiable within CN codes ex39206219 and ex39206290. These CN codes are given only for information. 
3. Existing measures 
The measures currently in force are a definitive anti-dumping duty imposed by Council Regulation (EC) No 1676/2001, as last amended by Council Regulation (EC) No 366/2006 [3] on imports of polyethylene terephthalate (PET) film originating in India. 
4. Grounds for the review 
The applicant has provided sufficient prima facie evidence that the circumstances with regard to dumping on the basis of which measures were established for the company have changed and that these changes are of a lasting nature. 
The applicant's allegation of increased dumping is based on a comparison of Jindal Poly Films Limited's constructed normal value with its export prices of the product concerned to the Community. On this basis, the dumping margin calculated would be significantly higher than the dumping found in the previous investigation that led to the existing duty rate. It is alleged therefore, that the continued imposition of measures at the existing level is no longer sufficient to offset dumping. 
5. Procedure for the determination of dumping 
Having determined, after consulting the Advisory Committee, that sufficient evidence exists to justify the initiation of a partial interim review, limited to dumping aspects as far as Jindal Poly Films Limited is concerned, the Commission hereby initiates a review in accordance with Article 11 (3) of the basic Regulation. 
(a) Questionnaires 
In order to obtain the information it deems necessary for its investigation, the Commission will send questionnaires to the applicant and to the authorities of the exporting country concerned. This information and supporting evidence should reach the Commission within the time limit set in point 6(a). 
(b) Collection of information and holding of hearings 
All interested parties are hereby invited to make their views known, submit information other than questionnaire replies and to provide supporting evidence. This information and supporting evidence must reach the Commission within the time limit set in point 6(a). 
Furthermore, the Commission may hear interested parties, provided that they make a request showing that there are particular reasons why they should be heard. This request must be made within the time limit set in point 6(b). 
6. Time limits 
(a) For parties to make themselves known, to submit questionnaire replies and any other information 
All interested parties, if their representations are to be taken into account during the investigation, must make themselves known by contacting the Commission, present their views and submit questionnaire replies or any other information within 40 days of the date of publication of this notice in the Official Journal of the European Union, unless otherwise specified. Attention is drawn to the fact that the exercise of most procedural rights set out in the basic Regulation depends on the party's making itself known within the aforementioned period. 
(b) Hearings 
All interested parties may also apply to be heard by the Commission within the same 40-day time limit. 
7. Written submissions, questionnaire replies and correspondence 
All submissions and requests made by interested parties must be made in writing (not in electronic format, unless otherwise specified) and must indicate the name, address, e-mail address, telephone and fax numbers of the interested party. All written submissions, including the information requested in this notice, questionnaire replies and correspondence provided by interested parties on a confidential basis shall be labelled as "Limited" [4] and, in accordance with Article 19(2) of the basic Regulation, shall be accompanied by a non-confidential version, which will be labelled "FOR INSPECTION BY INTERESTED PARTIES". 
Commission address for correspondence: 
European Commission 
Directorate General for Trade 
Directorate B 
Office : J-79 5/16 
B-1049 Brussels 
Fax (32-2) 295 65 05 
8. Non-co-operation 
In cases in which any interested party refuses access to or does not provide the necessary information within the time limits, or significantly impedes the investigation, findings, affirmative or negative, may be made in accordance with Article 18 of the basic Regulation, on the basis of the facts available. 
Where it is found that any interested party has supplied false or misleading information, the information shall be disregarded and use may be made, in accordance with Article 18 of the basic Regulation, of the facts available. If an interested party does not cooperate or cooperates only partially, and use of facts available is made, the result may be less favorable to that party than if it had cooperated. 
9. Schedule of the investigation 
The investigation will be concluded, according to Article 11(5) of the basic Regulation within 15 months of the date of the publication of this notice in the Official Journal of the European Union. 
[1] OJ L 56, 6.3.1996, p. 1. 
[2] OJ L 340, 23.12.2005, p.17. 
[3] OJ L 227, 23.8.2001, p.1; OJ L 68, 8.3.2006, p. 6. 
[4] This means that the document is for internal use only. It is protected pursuant to Article 4 of Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council regarding public access to European Parliament, Council and Commission documents (OJ L 145, 31.5.2001, p. 43). It is a confidential document pursuant to Article 19 of the basic Regulation and Article 6 of the WTO Agreement on Implementation of Article VI of the GATT 1994 (Anti-dumping Agreement). 
-------------------------------------------------- 
