European Parliament resolution on the situation in Bolivia 
P6_TA(2005)0241 
Bolivia 
European Parliament resolution on the situation in Bolivia 
The European Parliament, 
- having regard to its previous resolutions on the situation in Bolivia, in particular the resolution of 23 October 2003 [1], 
- having regard to Rule 115(5) of its Rules of Procedure, 
A. alarmed at the serious institutional crisis affecting the Republic of Bolivia, especially after the resignation of President Carlos Mesa, 
B. whereas, according to the indicators of poverty, Bolivia is the poorest country in South America, 
C. whereas most of the Bolivian population is extremely poor and urgent action is needed to ensure that their demands for social justice receive a favourable response and that the process of democratic development continues, 
D. whereas there are profound concerns in Bolivian society as regards real democracy, which entails the direct participation of the indigenous population in public affairs, 
E. whereas broad sectors of Bolivian society, in particular indigenous people, farmers, workers and the unemployed, are entitled to assert legitimately and peacefully their right to take part in the government of the country, 
F. having regard to the threat to social and political stability in Bolivia posed by the continuing serious and profound inequalities, the non-recognition of the rights of the indigenous population and the threat to natural resources and areas that may result from the uncontrolled exploitation of resources, 
G. whereas the conflict has worsened in the last few weeks, with a general strike in various regions, hunger strikes, industrial action in the education and health sectors, and tens of thousands of demonstrators on the streets, 
H. whereas, faced with the wave of protests, President Mesa handed in his resignation to the National Congress and called on the sections of society engaged in demonstrations to allow the Parliament to resume its sessions in order to deliberate and decide on the country's future, 
1. Reiterates its strong and determined support for democracy, the rule of law and the current constitutional order in Bolivia and hopes that President Mesa's resignation will not leave a power vacuum that may be exploited to divert the country from the path of respect for democratic values and the rule of law; 
2. Expresses concern at the political and social events taking place in Bolivia, particularly in La Paz, the seat of executive and legislative power; 
3. Expresses the hope that a consensus will be found in Bolivian society, in order to ensure that the country's natural resources, in particular its energy resources, will contribute to its development and the social welfare of its inhabitants; 
4. Calls for continuing efforts to deepen and broaden democracy in Bolivia and urges the European Union and its Member States to adequately support the democratic process in order that the country can extricate itself from the political and economic quagmire; 
5. Is convinced of the need to promote room for dialogue so that, in a peaceful way and in the context of democratic institutions and constitutional order, Bolivia may manage to overcome the crisis, and also calls for moderation, so as to make way for constructive dialogue between all sectors of the population, in order to create a climate of trust and understanding that is sufficient and necessary to lead the country towards peaceful transition; 
6. Calls for a European Parliament delegation to be sent to the Republic of Bolivia to analyse the current situation on the ground and to propose appropriate forms of aid to support peaceful and democratic transition, and expresses its willingness to monitor, as an observer, the electoral processes in which its presence may be required; 
7. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council and the Commission, the governments of the Member States, the Government and Congress of the Republic of Bolivia, and the Secretary-General of the OAS. 
[1] OJ C 82 E, 1.4.2004, p. 634. 
-------------------------------------------------- 
