Summary information communicated by Member States regarding State aid granted under Commission Regulation (EC) No 1/2004 of 23 December 2003 on the application of Articles 87 and 88 of the EC Treaty to State aid to small and medium-sized enterprises active in the production, processing and marketing of agricultural products 
(2005/C 105/03) 
Aid number: XA 66/04 
Member State: United Kingdom 
Region: England 
Title of Aid scheme or name of company receiving an individual aid: Farming Activities Programme (England) 
Legal basis: The scheme is non-statutory. The Agriculture Act 1986 (section 1) provides the legal base for the provision by Government of advice in connection with any agricultural activity. 
Annual expenditure planned under the scheme: GBP 800000 
Maximum aid intensity: The aid intensity is 100 % 
Date of implementation: Farmers will be able to sign up from 1 December the first meetings will take place on or after 6 December 2004. 
Duration of scheme or individual aid award: The scheme will be open to new participants throughout. Activities funded under the scheme will take place after 6 December 2004 and until 24 March 2005. The Programme closes on 31 March 2005. 
Objective of aid: 
Sectoral development. This is a programme for practising farmers. The purpose of the programme, consisting of a range of conferences, workshops and seminars, is to help farmers understand current issues that may impact upon their businesses such as CAP reform, catchment sensitive farming, and the introduction of new Environmental Stewardship Schemes. This will increase the professionalism of the sector. 
The aid will be paid in line with Article 14 of Regulation (EC) No 1/2004 and the eligible costs will be costs of organising and delivering training programmes. 
Sector(s) concerned: The scheme applies to businesses active in the production of agricultural products only. The scheme is open to businesses producing any type of agricultural product. 
Name and address of the granting authority Department for Environment, Food &amp; Rural Affairs 
Farm Advice Unit 
Rural Development Service 
Area 4A, Ergon House 
Horseferry Road 
London 
United Kingdom 
SW1P 2JR 
Web-address: 
www.defra.gov.uk/farm/state-aid/setup/exist-exempt.htm 
Click on "Farming Activities Programme (England)". Alternatively, you can go direct to 
www.defra.gov.uk/farm/state-aid/setup/schemes/fap-england.pdf. 
Aid No: XA No 49/04 
Member State: Italy 
Region: Friuli-Venezia Giulia 
Title of aid scheme or name of company receiving an individual aid: Regulation laying down criteria and detailed rules for granting financial assistance for the recapitalisation of agricultural cooperatives and consortia thereof as provided for in Article 31 of Regional Law 20/1992 and payable in accordance with Article 5(n) of Regional Law 80/82 and subsequent amendments and additions (Regolamento recante criteri e modalità per la concessione di finanziamenti agevolati per la ricapitalizzazione delle cooperative agricole e dei loro consorzi, previsti dall'articolo 31 della LR 20/1992 ed erogabili ai sensi dell'articolo 5, lettera n) della legge regionale 80/82 e successive modificazioni ed integrazioni). 
Legal basis: Legge regionale 17 luglio 1992, n. 20 (art. 31) — "Modificazioni ed integrazioni alla legge regionale 29 marzo 1988, n. 16, in materia di apicoltura e alla legge regionale 20 novembre 1982, n. 80, concernente il Fondo di rotazione regionale. Norme di interpretazione, modificazione ed integrazione di altre leggi regionali nel settore dell' agricoltura. Interventi di razionalizzazione, ammodernamento e sviluppo di alcuni comparti produttivi del settore primario". 
Annual expenditure planned under the scheme or overall amount of individual aid granted to the company: The indicative maximum annual expenditure is EUR 2 million. 
Maximum aid intensity: The maximum intensity is 40 % GGE. 
Date of implementation: The aid scheme comes into force on the 15th day following its publication in the Official Journal of the Region and 10 days after this form is sent, as provided for in Article 19(1) of Regulation (EC) No 1/2004. 
Duration of scheme or individual aid award: Until funds are exhausted but not beyond the term of validity of Regulation (EC) No 1/2004, i.e. 31 December 2006. 
- the construction, acquisition or improvement of immovable property; 
- the purchase or lease-purchase of new machinery and equipment, including computer software up to the market value of the asset; other costs connected with a leasing contract (tax, lessor's margin, interest refinancing costs, overheads, insurance charges, etc.) are not admissible; 
- general costs, such as architects', engineers' and consultants' fees, feasibility studies, the acquisition of patents and licences, of up to 12 % of the expenditure covered by the preceding indents. 
Sector(s) concerned: Processing and/or marketing of products listed in Annex I to the Treaty. 
Name and address of the granting authority Direzione centrale delle risorse agricole, naturali, forestali e della montagna 
Servizio per il credito agrario, la cooperazione e lo sviluppo agricolo 
Via Caccia, 17 
33100 — Udine (I) 
Web site: www.regione.fvg.it/istituzionale/bur/bur.htm 
Aid No: XA No 51/04 
Member State: Italy 
Region: Marche 
Title of aid scheme: Assistance to promote the production and marketing of quality agricultural products through the introduction of company management systems for the certification of environmental and ethical quality standards in accordance with national and Community provisions and standards of the SA 8000, UNI EN ISO 9000 and 14000 series and company and food-chain traceability systems meeting national and Community provisions and standards of the UNI 10939 and UNI 11020 series and compliance with existing rules on quality products. 
Legal basis: Articoli 3, 4 e 6 della legge regionale 10 dicembre 2003, n. 23 "Interventi per il sostegno dei sistemi di certificazione della qualità e della tracciabilità delle produzioni agricole ed agro-alimentari". 
Maximum expenditure planned: 
The overall budget under the Regional Law for 2004 is EUR 774685,35, of which not more than EUR 700000 is for measures under this aid scheme. 
For subsequent years, the maximum under the Regional Law can amount to EUR 2 million per year, of which not more than EUR 1500000 is for measures under this aid scheme. 
Maximum aid intensity: The aid may amount to up to 60 % of the admissible expenditure but may not exceed EUR 100000 per beneficiary over a three-year period. 
Date of implementation: From 2004, and 10 working days after this form is sent, as provided for in Article 19(1) of Regulation (EC) No 1/2004. 
Duration of scheme or individual aid award: There is no time limit on the scheme's duration, which depends on the funds set aside in the annual budget of the Marche Region. 
(a) Market research, conception and design of products for the preparation of applications for recognition of denominations of origin and certificates of specific character in accordance with the relevant Community regulations. 
(b) Projects that provide for the introduction of company management systems for certifying environmental and ethical quality standards in accordance with national and Community provisions and standards of the SA 8000, UNI EN ISO 9000 and 14000 series, with which compliance must be certified by specially authorised or accredited bodies. 
The beneficiaries must use the management system developed using the regional aid for a minimum period laid down by the Regional Executive. 
(c) Projects that provide for the introduction of company and food-chain traceability in accordance with national and Community provisions or the standards of the UNI 10939 and UNI 11020 series, with which compliance must be certified by specially authorised or accredited bodies. The beneficiaries must use the management system developed using the regional assistance for a minimum period laid down by the Regional Executive. 
(d) Projects to amend, or comply with, the new requirements for, denominations of origin and certificates of specific character in accordance with the relevant Community provisions through work carried out by third parties. 
Reference articles of Commission Regulation (EC) No 1/2004: Article 13(2)(a) to (d) and Article 14(2)(c). 
Beneficiaries of the aid: 
Small and medium-sized agricultural holdings and agri-food enterprises, both individual and grouped, those processing agricultural products as defined in Article 32 of, and Annex I to, the Treaty establishing the European Community, and producer organisations, consortia for the protection and committees for the promotion of new denominations of origin operating within the Region may qualify for the aid. 
All persons qualifying in the area concerned on the basis of objectively defined criteria may be granted the aid, subject to compliance with Articles 13(6) and (7) and 14(4) and (5) of Regulation (EC) No 1/2004. 
Costs Eligible costs 
The following may be eligible for aid 
- market research, product conception and design, including aid granted for the preparation of applications for recognition of denominations of origin and certificates of specific character in accordance with the relevant Community provisions and for the amendment of and/or compliance with existing production rules. 
- introduction of quality assurance schemes, such as ISO 9000 and 14000 standards, traceability systems, systems to ensure compliance with standards of authenticity, rules on marketing and environmental audit systems and standards for the certification of social responsibilty (SA 8000); 
- training of personnel to apply the above systems; 
- charges levied by recognised certifying bodies for the initial certification of quality assurance and similar systems. 
Costs of external consultants for work carried out by professional consultants or consultancy companies with proven experience in the sector, for the implementation of the quality management system, including specialised technical assistance (e.g. for instrument calibration), can also be covered. 
Ineligible costs 
Drafting of company self-monitoring manuals in compliance with Legislative Decree No 155/97. 
Admissible costs are eligible from the date of granting of the aid. 
Sectors concerned: The scheme applies to small and medium-sized enterprises producing, processing and marketing agricultural products listed in Annex I to the EC Treaty. 
Name and address of the authority granting the aid: REGIONE MARCHE Servizio Sviluppo e Gestione Attività Agricole e Rurali e Servizio Sistema Agroalimentare, Ambiente rurale e Foreste, Via Tiziano 44, 60100 ANCONA 
Web address: www.agri.marche.it 
Aid No: XA 53/04 
Member State: Belgium 
Title of aid scheme or name of company receiving individual aid: prefinancing of TSE tests 
- Regulation (EC) No 999/2001 
- Law of 27 December 2002 on the general expenditure budget for the 2003 
Annual expenditure planned under the scheme or overall amount of individual aid granted to the company: The overall amount for carrying out mandatory TSE tests on cattle slaughtered for human consumption is estimated at approximately EUR 25700000 (357398 × EUR 40 for 2003 and approximately 285000 × EUR 40 for 2005 at 15 October 2004), depending on when the draft decision on financing TSE tests enters into force. 
Maximum aid intensity: EUR 40,00 per test 
Date of implementation: since 1 January 2003 
Duration of scheme or individual aid award: For as long as mandatory TSE tests on cattle slaughtered for human consumption apply and until the draft decision on financing TSE tests, which has been submitted to the Commission, enters into force. 
Objective of aid: The main objective of the measure is to provide support to the animal production sector in accordance with Article 15(d) of Commission Regulation (EC) No 1/2004 of 23 December 2003 on the application of Articles 87 and 88 of the EC Treaty to state aid to small and medium-sized enterprises active in the production, processing and marketing of agricultural products. There are no secondary objectives. The eligible costs comprise: the total cost of testing, including the test kit and taking, transporting, testing, storing and destroying the samples. 
Economic sector(s) concerned: The scheme applies to the cattle subsector of the production sector. 
Name and address of the granting authority: Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain (FASFC), Avenue Simon Bolivarlaan 30, B-1000 Brussels 
Website: www.favv-afsca.fgov.be 
Aid No: XA 54/04 
Member State: Belgium 
Title of aid scheme or name of company receiving individual aid: financing of TSE tests 
- Verordening (EG) nr. 999/2001 
- Wet van 22 december 2003 houdende de algemene uitgavenbegroting voor het begrotingsjaar 2004 
- Règlement (CE) no 999/2001 
- loi du 22 décembre 2003 contenant le budget général des dépenses pour l'exercice budgétaire 2004 
Annual expenditure planned under the scheme or overall amount of individual aid granted to the company:: The overall amount for carrying out mandatory TSE tests on cattle slaughtered for human consumption is estimated at approximately EUR 12016800 (360000 tests × EUR 33,38 over 12 months), varying according to the number of slaughtered cattle in the age category to be tested and the date when the decision applies. 
Maximum aid intensity: EUR 33,38 per test 
Date of implementation: 15 October 2004 
Duration of scheme or individual aid award: For as long as mandatory TSE tests on cattle slaughtered for human consumption apply. 
Objective of aid: The main objective of the measure is to provide support to the animal production sector in accordance with Article 15(d) of Commission Regulation (EC) No 1/2004 of 23 December 2003 on the application of Articles 87 and 88 of the EC Treaty to state aid to small and medium-sized enterprises active in the production, processing and marketing of agricultural products. There are no secondary objectives. The eligible costs comprise: the total cost of testing, including the test kit and taking, transporting, testing, storing and destroying the samples. 
Economic sector(s) concerned: The scheme applies to animal production. 
Name and address of the granting authority: Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain (FASFC), Avenue Simon Bolivarlaan 30, B-1000 Brussels 
Website: www.favv-afsca.fgov.be 
Aid number: XA 56-04 
Member State: United Kingdom 
Region: England 
Title of Aid scheme or name of company receiving an individual aid: Self-help groups for farmers — pilot scheme (England) 
Legal basis: The scheme is non-statutory. The Agriculture Act 1986 (section 1) provides the legal base for the provision by Government of advice in connection with any agricultural activity. 
Annual expenditure planned under the scheme: GBP 117750 
Maximum aid intensity: The maximum aid intensity is 100 %. Each participant will receive services at a value of GBP 235,50 and this therefore represents the maximum amount of aid granted under the scheme. 
Date of implementation: Farmers will be able to sign up from 22 October and the first meetings will take place after 1 November 2004. 
Duration of scheme or individual aid award: The scheme will be open to new participants throughout. Activities funded under the scheme will take place after 1 November 2004 and until 31 March 2005. 
Objective of aid: The purpose of this scheme is to pilot new mechanisms for engaging with farmers with a view to promoting the sharing of knowledge and best practice within the sector. The mechanisms will be to provide discussion groups to discuss specific issues affecting farming. The aid will be paid in line with Article 14 of Regulation (EC) No 1/2004 and the eligible costs will be costs of organising training programmes and in some cases the travel and subsistence costs of participants. 
Sector(s) concerned: The scheme applies to businesses active in the production of agricultural products only. The scheme is open to businesses producing any type of agricultural product. 
Name and address of the granting authority Department for Environment, Food &amp; Rural Affairs 
Challenge Fund: Self-help groups for farmers — pilot project 
Area 4A 
Ergon House 
London 
United Kingdom 
SW1P 2JR 
Web-address: 
www.defra.gov.uk/farm/state-aid/setup/exist-exempt.htm 
Click on 'Self-help groups for farmers — pilot scheme'. Alternatively, you can go direct to 
www.defra.gov.uk/farm/state-aid/setup/schemes/self-help.pdf. 
Aid No: XA No 57/04 
Member State: Italy 
Region: Autonomous Province of Bolzano 
Title of scheme: Criteria and arrangements for granting aid for insurance policies covering the losses incurred by agricultural holdings as a result of adverse climatic events. 
Legal basis: 
Legge Provinciale 14 dicembre 1998, n. 11, art. 4, lettera k 
Decreto legislativo 29 marzo 2004, n. 102. 
Annual expenditure planned at Province level: EUR 3000000 
Maximum aid intensity: 50 % and 80 % respectively 
Date of implementation: 10 days after referral, October 2004 
Duration of scheme: Open-ended 
Objectives of aid: Support for agricultural holdings through prevention schemes addressing the damages to agricultural production, under Article 11 of Regulation (EC) No 1/2004. 
Sector concerned: Arable (fruit, wine grapes) 
Name and address of authority: Provincia Autonoma di Bolzano, Ripartizione Agricoltura, 39100 Bolzano, via Brennero 6. 
Web address: http://www.provinz.bz.it/landwirtschaft/dema/dema_getreso.asp?DRES_ID=1865 
Aid number: XA 59-04 
Member State: United Kingdom 
Region: Cumbria 
Title of Aid scheme or name of company receiving an individual aid: Distinctly Cumbrian Agricultural Produce Scheme 
Legal basis: Section 5 of the Regional Development Agencies Act 1998 
Annual expenditure planned under the scheme or overall amount of individual aid granted to the company: 
12.11.2004 — 30.6.2005: GBP 0,83 m 
1.7.2005 — 30.6.2006: GBP 1,2 m 
1.7.2006 — 30.6.2007: GBP 0,9 m 
Maximum aid intensity: 
Small Capital Grants 40 % 
Large Grants 25 % 
Website Development Grants 50 % 
Date of implementation: The scheme will open to new applications on 12 November 2004. 
Duration of scheme or individual aid award: 
The closing date for applications under the Large and Small Grant Schemes will be 31 December 2006. 
The closing date for applications for Website Development Grants will be 31 March 2007. 
Final claims for grant payment in all cases will be 30 June 2007. 
(a) the construction, acquisition or improvement of immovable property; 
(b) the purchase or lease purchase of new machinery and equipment, including computer software up to the market value of the asset; other costs connected with a leasing contract (tax, lessor's margin, interest refinancing costs, overheads, insurance charges etc) are not eligible expenditure; 
(c) General costs, such as architects, engineers and consultation fees, feasibility studies, the acquisition of patents and licences, up to 12 % of the expenditure referred to in points (a) and (b) above. 
The Website Development Grants are being implemented under Article 14 of Regulation (EC) No 1/2004. The eligible costs are consultancy fees. 
Sector(s) concerned: The scheme applies to the processing and marketing of agricultural products. All subsectors are eligible with the exception of the manufacture and marketing of products which imitate or substitute for milk and milk products and the processing and marketing of sugar or sugar products. 
Name and address of the granting authority Distinctly Cumbrian 
Rural Enterprise Centre 
Redhills 
PENRITH 
United Kingdom 
CA11 0DT 
Web-address: 
www.defra.gov.uk/farm/state-aid/setup/exist-exempt.htm 
Click on "Distinctly Cumbrian Agricultural Produce Scheme". Alternatively, you can go direct to 
http://defraweb/farm/state-aid/setup/schemes/cumbrian-aps.pdf 
1. Small Capital Grants — for investments in the processing and marketing of added value agricultural products where eligible expenditure totals GBP 20000 or less. 
2. Large grants for the same type of investments as Small Capital Grants but where the eligible costs total between GBP 20000 and EUR 400000. 
3. Website Development Grants — a maximum of GBP 1000 for consultancy for website development the purpose of which is the marketing of agricultural products. 
Aid No: XA-60/04 
Member State: The Netherlands 
Title of aid scheme or name of company receiving an individual aid: Grant towards partnerships' organisation costs 
Legal basis: Kaderwet LNV-subsidies (artikelen 2 en 4) 
Annual expenditure planned under the scheme or overall amount of individual aid granted to the company: The planned annual expenditure under this scheme amounts to EUR 2 million, 1,4 million of which is for technical support for farmers. 
Maximum aid intensity: 
The maximum aid intensity per farmer per year is about EUR 535. The maximum aid intensity depends on a number of factors: 1. the size of the agricultural nature management association or other partnership; 2. the number of farmer members; 3. the number of hectares for which the partnership concerned receives a management grant under the heading and part (a) of Article 2 of the Agricultural Nature Management Payment Scheme and/or a landscape grant under the heading and part (b) of Article 2 of the above scheme. 
The aid is within the ceiling allowed under Regulation (EC) No 1/2004. It will be stipulated that the aid may not exceed EUR 100000 per farmer over a three-year period. 
Date of implementation: 10 working days after acknowledgment of receipt by the European Commission 
Duration of scheme or individual aid award: This is a new scheme covering the period 2004 to 2014 inclusive. Aid under this scheme can be granted for a single period of up to six years. Aid applications must be submitted not later than 1 May 2009. 
Objective of aid: The purpose of the aid is technical support for farmers (under Article 14 of Regulation (EC) No 1/2004) for agricultural nature management. Aid can be obtained for the following costs: activities in connection with advancing knowledge, improving professionalism and ecological management, recruitment, guidance on applications, and administration. 
Sector(s) concerned: Farmers engaged in agricultural nature management on their holding or planning to undertake such measures. These farmers may be engaged in livestock or arable farming. 
Name and address of the granting authority: Ministerie van LNV (Ministry for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality) (p/a Dienst Regelingen, Postbus 965, 6040 AZ Roermond) 
Website: www.hetlnvloket.nl 
Other information: 
The activities covered by the grant towards partnerships' organisation costs are technical support measures within the meaning of Article 14 of the exemption Regulation. The aid will be granted — in order to promote joint nature management initiatives and skills — to partnerships to assist the organisation of activities such as advancing knowledge, improving professionalism and ecological management, recruitment, guidance on applications, and administration. The aid will not be granted directly to farmers but will benefit them. The partnerships concerned are made up of farmers and the beneficiaries of the activities organised will be farmers. 
The grant towards partnerships' organisation costs is included in Chapter 8 of the Agricultural Nature Management Payment Scheme. It is governed by the arrangements laid down for the scheme. The Agricultural Nature Management Payment Scheme was approved by the Commission by Decision C (2001) 2814 of 9 October 2001. The aid in question will be granted only if the management aid under Article 2 (a) of the Agricultural Nature Management Payment Scheme and/or the landscape aid under Article 2 (b) thereof is also granted. Joint nature management is boosted by aid for joint nature management being granted for the relevant number of hectares. The ecological value of joint environment management is greater than the sum of the value of individual initiatives. The reason for joint efforts is to optimise nature management. 
The aid in question is, however, a separate aid scheme. Unlike the exception mentioned below, the management grant and landscape grant, the aid does not entail environmental commitments. The aid relates to the costs of activities regarded as organisation costs for a partnership. These costs do not include the development, management and/or maintenance of specific plots of land and/or landscape features. 
As can be seen from the enclosed draft, under Chapter 8 of the Agricultural Nature Management Payment Scheme, aid can also be granted for activities outside the scope of Regulation (EC) No 1/2004. 
First and foremost, this aid concerns activities which are not regarded as aid. It covers support for activities which primarily benefit the partnerships themselves, such as activities designed to expand the scope of agricultural nature management and strengthen collaboration among those involved in nature management. 
Secondly, the grant relates to activities such as quality assurance, monitoring and reporting that can be regarded as agri-environment measures. Aid is not yet granted for the latter activities. The conditions relating to this category of aid will be sent to you shortly via the normal channels. The aid in question will not be paid until the Commission has given its approval. 
Aid No: XA 63/04 
Member State: Germany 
Region: Baden-Württemberg 
Title of aid scheme: Directive on countryside conservation/grants for the organisation of producer groups 
Annual expenditure planned under the scheme: Approximately EUR 10000 
Maximum aid intensity: 90 % of eligible costs in the first year, 70 % in the second year, up to 50 % in the third year, up to 30 % in the fourth year and up to 20 % in the fifth year. 
Date of implementation: Ongoing 
Duration of scheme: Until 30 June 2007 
Objective of aid: Grants for the organisation of producer groups aimed at promoting nature protection, countryside conservation and indigenous crops within the framework of marketing organic or regional agricultural products and products arising from countryside conservation. 
Sectors concerned: Various sectors each working in the public interest with regard to nature protection, countryside conservation or indigenous crops. 
Name and address of granting authority: 
Ministry for Food and Rural Development, Kernerplatz 10, 70182 Stuttgart; 
the four Regional Councils of the Federal State of Baden-Württemberg. 
Web address: http://www.landwirtschaft-mlr.baden-wuerttemberg.de/ 
Aid No: XA 64/04 
Member State: Germany 
Region: Baden-Württemberg 
Title of aid scheme: Directive on countryside conservation/management and consultancy 
Annual expenditure planned under the scheme: Approximately EUR 500000 
Maximum aid intensity: Up to 90 % of eligible costs. 
Date of implementation: Ongoing 
Duration of scheme: Until 30 June 2007 
Objective of aid: To manage and advise in the public interest on the implementation of measures aimed at promoting nature protection, countryside conservation and indigenous crops. 
Sectors concerned: Various sectors each working in the public interest within the framework of providing technical assistance to the agricultural sector with regard to nature protection, countryside conservation or indigenous crops. 
Name and address of granting authority: 
Ministry for Food and the Rural Development, Kernerplatz 10, 70182 Stuttgart; 
the four Regional Councils of the Federal State of Baden-Württemberg; the lower nature protection authorities agencies for agriculture, countryside and soil cultivation. 
Web address: http://www.landwirtschaft-mlr.baden-wuerttemberg.de/ 
Aid No: XA 65/04 
Member State: Germany 
Region: Bavaria 
Title of aid scheme or name of the company receiving individual aid: Bavarian loan programme for environmental protection (Bayerisches Umweltkreditprogramm) 
Legal basis: Directive on loans to small and medium-sized commercial enterprises for the promotion of environmental protection and energy-saving measures (joint publication by the Bavarian State Ministry for the Environment, Health and Consumer Protection, and the Bavarian State Ministry for Economics, Infrastructure, Transport and Technology) 
Annual expenditure planned under the scheme or overall amount of individual aid granted to the company: Overall amount approximately EUR 3 million per year. 
Maximum aid intensity: The subsidy equivalent of low-interest loans is a maximum of 15 % for small enterprises and 7,5 % for medium-sized enterprises. 
Date of implementation: Planned for 1 December 2004 
Duration of scheme or individual aid grant: Until 31 December 2008 
Objective of aid: 
Investment aid is granted to small and medium-sized enterprises that process or market agricultural products in accordance with Annex I to the EC Treaty and within the framework of Article 7 of Regulation (EC) No 1/2004. Aid takes the form of low-interest loans not exceeding a subsidy equivalent of 15 % for small enterprises and 7,5 % for medium-sized enterprises. 
The loans are designed to assist commercial SMEs in making their own investments in environmental protection, especially in combination with other operational investments, thereby contributing to significant improvements in the environmental situation. 
Sectors concerned: Commercial enterprises involved in the processing and marketing of agricultural products. The manufacture and marketing of products that imitate or substitute milk or milk products, and processing and marketing activities in the sugar sector are not eligible. 
Name and address of granting authority: 
LfA Förderbank Bayern 
Königinstraße 17 
80539 München 
Web address: 
The text of the Directive on loans to small and medium-sized commercial enterprises for the promotion of environmental protection and energy-saving measures will be published at the following web address: 
http://www.stmugv.bayern.de/de/wirtschaft/kredit.htm 
Other information: Measures relating to the identification and redevelopment of abandoned contaminated sites under Section III of the Directive are not covered by the Exemption Regulation. The Directive indicates that exemption under the current Community Regulations (EC) No 69/2001, No 70/2001 and No 1/2004 expires on 30 June 2007. The scheme and any individual measures implemented under it will be adapted to take account of any amendments to Regulation (EC) No 1/2004 and the Commission will be informed. 
-------------------------------------------------- 
