Case T-279/03: Judgment of the Court of First Instance of 10 May 2006 — Galileo International Technology and Others v Commission (Action for damages — Non-contractual liability of the Community — Community project relating to a global satellite radio navigation system (Galileo) — Harm alleged by the proprietors of trade marks and business names containing the word Galileo — Liability of the Community in the absence of unlawful conduct by its bodies — Unusual and special damage) 
Judgment of the Court of First Instance of 10 May 2006 — Galileo International Technology and Others v Commission 
(Case T-279/03) [1] 
Parties 
Applicants: Galileo International Technology LLC (Bridgetown, Barbados), Galileo International LLC (Wilmington, Delaware, United States), Galileo Belgium SA (Brussels, Belgium), Galileo Danmark A/S (Copenhagen, Denmark), Galileo Deutschland GmbH (Frankfurt am Main, Germany), Galileo España, SA (Madrid, Spain), Galileo France SARL (Roissy-en-France, France), Galileo Nederland BV (Hoofdorp, Netherlands), Galileo Nordiska AB (Stockholm, Sweden), Galileo Portugal Ltd (Alges, Portugal), Galileo Sigma Srl (Rome, Italy), Galileo International Ltd (Langley, Berkshire, United Kingdom), The Galileo Co. (London, United Kingdom) and Timas Ltd (Dublin, Ireland) (represented by: C. Delcorde, J.-N. Louis, J.-A. Delcorde and S. Maniatopoulos, lawyers) 
Defendant: Commission of the European Communities (represented by: N. Rasmussen and M. Huttunen, Agents, assisted by A. Berenboom and N. Van den Bossche, lawyers) 
Re: 
Action for (i) an order prohibiting the Commission from using the word 'Galileo' in connection with the Community project relating to a global satellite radio navigation system and from encouraging third parties to use that word and (ii) compensation for the applicants for the damage which they claim to have suffered owing to the use of and promotion by the Commission of that word, which they allege to be identical to trade marks registered by the applicants and also to their business names 
Operative part of the judgment 
The Court: 
1. Dismisses the action; 
2. Orders the applicants to pay the costs. 
[1] OJ C 251 of 18.10.2003 
-------------------------------------------------- 
