Case C-205/03 P: Judgment of the Court (Grand Chamber) of 11 July 2006 — Federación Española de Empresa de Tecnología Sanitaria (FENIN), formerly Federación Nacional de Empresa de Instrumentación Científica, Médica, Técnica y Dental v Commission of the European Communities (Appeal — Competition — Management bodies of the Spanish national health system — Medical treatment — Definition of undertaking — Payment conditions imposed on suppliers of medical goods and equipment) 
Judgment of the Court (Grand Chamber) of 11 July 2006 — Federación Española de Empresa de Tecnología Sanitaria (FENIN), formerly Federación Nacional de Empresa de Instrumentación Científica, Médica, Técnica y Dental v Commission of the European Communities 
(Case C-205/03 P) [1] 
Parties 
Appellant: Federación Española de Empresa de Tecnología Sanitaria (FENIN), formerly Federación Nacional de Empresa de Instrumentación Científica, Médica, Técnica y Dental (represented by: J.-R. García-Gallardo Gil-Fournier and D. Domínguez Pérez, abogados) 
Other party to the proceedings: Commission of the European Communities (represented by: W. Wils and F. Castillo de la Torre, acting as Agents, and J. Rivas de Andrés and J. Gutiérrez Gisbert, abogados) 
Interveners in support of the defendants: United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland (represented by: M. Bethell, Agent, and G. Barling QC), Kingdom of Spain (represented by N. Díaz Abad, L. Fraguas Gadea and F. Díez Moreno, Agents) 
Re: 
Appeal against the judgment of the Court of First Instance (First Chamber, Extended Composition) of 4 March 2003 in Case T-319/99 FENIN 
v Commission in which the Court dismissed the action for annulment brought by the appellant against the Commission's decision of 26 August 1999 (SG(99) D/7.040) relating to the organisations which manage the Spanish national health system concerning the conditions for payment imposed by those organisations on their suppliers of health products and other allegedly anti-competitive practices of such organisations — Definition of %quot%undertaking%quot% 
Operative part of the judgment 
The Court: 
1. Dismisses the appeal; 
2. Orders the Federación Española de Empresas de Tecnología Sanitaria (FENIN) to pay the costs of these proceedings; 
3. Orders the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Kingdom of Spain to bear their own costs. 
[1] OJ C 184, 02.08.2003. 
-------------------------------------------------- 
