If, after a long series of years of snow and prolonged swelling mass of the glacier, will return to take those heaps of stones and bring them further.
When later, and under the influence of mild winter temperatures less generous in glacier snow cover in the bottom of the rock leaving an empty cavity that served as a channel, overcrowding of rock, free from the pressure that pushed him forward, will be isolated at a remote glacier, he will be behind the bare stone, smooth, planed by the enormous weight recently covered and planted in some parts of red mud produced by stones and gravel, which crashed into it.
other debris will be overcrowded, little by little to the steep glacier.
Well, at enormous distances from the valley, which can be measured, past, tens of kilometers, there are unmistakable traces of ancient ice action.
Total plains, filled with water at one point they were blinded by the mud and gravel that led arising before, ridges of mountains and hills appear worn, and eventually dispersed or stacked rocks have been abandoned in the distance, the slopes from other systems.
Easily known origin of these stones in their chemical composition, arrangement of crystals or their fossils.
Without doubt that was a long time, if we judge by now carrying huge rocks and glaciers whose walk is measured.
Some of these rocks have become celebrity travel wise comments and happy to see them as if they were friends.
Those who are trapped in plain stones, piles of mud carried up to now, all these pieces of ancient glaciers transition, allowing us to imagine alternatives were big time huge changes in the topography and the land issue during the successive centuries planet.
In times past that reveals the rubble, we see our mountain and neighbors to stand up to a height much greater than today.
nodes dominated his highest clouds, and all the ships that traveled through the area were deposited as snow and ice or glass in their huge outstanding.
his circle of grass, Green Glens, sheds full of forest today were uniformly covered by ice.
Huge frozen river, no less resistant than the current rates of mountain, filled all depressions, and then leave alfoces, extended distance, the plains, canyons and hills dominate.
This was the time of our ancestors, the image presented mountains full of ice: our children's grandchildren, who live in the indefinite future and will never see completely different images.
Perhaps then, the glacier completely melted, run flow humble place, or that is a different brand of slight convexity of the ground.
Current plateau, transformed by changes in level, you have mountains product will grow slowly.
And while we think the history of the mountain and its glacier, in what they were and what became, leaving the stream, in a whisper, ice and vase for the world to help continue the ground work for renewal.
