And Gabriel moved away, he could not understand the true extent of this diversion of disciples.
Often, when entering the rooms of the tower to hang out with them, the conversation suddenly ceased and regarded him with anxiety, fearing, no doubt I could hear his words.
Don Martin for many days not presented in the cloister.
Gabriel learned from the Vara silver mother had died the priest, and a week later I saw one afternoon in Claverias.
Her eyes were red, factions des-bait and skin tight, as I cried a lot. - I come to say goodbye to you, Gabriel.
I spent a month in penalties and caring for insomnia my mother.
There was no young, I expected this final, but for strong resigned and one is, always feel these blows.
When leaving the poor old woman, I am free.
That was all that bound me to this church, which I do not believe.
Today I was in the palace to say that I have seven hard Monthly and the chaplain of the nuns.
I'm going, not only fled the church, I want to avoid their environment, and Toledo priest can not live a "renegade." Do you see this disguise?
Tomorrow I will enjoy the first joy of my life, ripping the shroud into small pieces very small, so that anyone can use.
I will man I will go away, as far as possible; I want to know how the world, since it alive.
I know no one, I have no protection; you are the most extraordinary man I ever met, and is hidden in a dungeon by will, taking refuge in a temple for his conscience completely empty ....
I'm not afraid of misery when it has been a representative of God with six reals a day, you can watch the face to face hunger.
I will be working, I will work the land if necessary, employ me in any thing ...
but I'll be a free man.
Two friends walked through the cloister, advising Gabriel Don Martin.
In determining the point where they should go, his preference fluctuated between Paris and the American republics more faults of emigration.
By late afternoon, Gabriel said goodbye to his disciple, he was waiting for the partner the lower cloister to lock in the temple. - We may not see more - said the priest sadly -.
If you have to go outside, I am one who guides his steps, and at night I, too, who keep their wealth ....
Whether you are a man without fainting.
The truth is well worth the misery.
The disappearance of the chaplain of the nuns was done without fuss.
Don Antolin and other priests believed that the young man had moved to Madrid by ambition, to swell the number of clergy applicants.
Gabriel was the only one who knew the true fate of Don Martin.
And soon forget the young priest was great news, that echoed in the cathedral like thunder, bringing excitement to the gentlemen in the choir, the small fry of the sacristy, the entire population of the upper cloister.
Were over disputes between the archbishop and the council.
In Rome approved everything done by Cardinal, and His Eminence roared with joy in his palace, with the fierce impetuosity that showed in all its expansions.
The canons, on entering the choir, went with his head down, and embarrassed and afraid. - But have you seen ...?-- is said to undress in the sacristy.
And at a good pace, with billowing cloak, left the church every man for himself, avoiding form groups or cliques, each to watch free of responsibilities, to appear clean of any complicity with the enemies of the prelate.
El Tato laughed with joy seeing the dispersion and the bewilderment of the gentlemen of the choir. - Run, run!
Preparations were made every year for the great feast of the Virgen del Sagrario mid-August.
In talking to the cathedral of that year with a mystery and anxiety others, as if waiting for extraordinary events.
Your Eminence, that the temple did not come down many months of not seeing the council, chaired by the choir on the day of the party.
Wanted look closely at their enemies, crushing them with his triumph, rejoicing in his confused look submission.
And as it approached the religious solemnity, shaking many canons, thinking hard look at the pride that would nail them the angry prelate.
Gabriel paid little attention to the concerns of the clerical world.
His life strange.
Fidel was ill, and for the Obrería, avoiding expenditure not deprive the elder of his meager salary, he refrained from asking for a new partner.
Spent nights in the cathedral with the same tranquility that I was in the cloister, high, used to the silence of cemeteries.
Not sleep, read in light of his lantern books could be found in the Claverias: cold treaties in history, in which played Providence the main role, lives of saints, which amused him by his credulous simplicity, bordering on grotesque, and that Don Quixote of the moon so many times, there were small lettering, and who thought himself something of the freshness of childhood.
Came the day of the Virgin.
The party was the same as in every year.
The famous picture was out of the chapel, occupying a site on its base on the high altar.
He wore the mantle kept at the Treasury and all her jewels, which sparkled caressed by the forest of lights as if laughing with trembling scale of brilliance.
Before starting the party, curious of the cathedral, pretending distracted, walked between the choir and the Puerta del Perdon.
The canons, with their red robes, reuníanse close of the stairway lit by the famous stone of light.
There would drop his eminence, and gentlemen of the choir were grouped tentatively, whispering, as if wondering what would happen.
Appeared on the first flight of stairs the portacruz, moving horizontally your logo of double arms to pass under the archway.
Then, between family members, and followed the purple robe of the auxiliary bishop, moved the Cardinal, dressed in purple, which faded purplish red color of the canons.
The council was formed in two rows, with his head down, paying deference to her prince.
The canons, inclined to feel believed in the neck with coldness of steel.
Stood the huge body within its graceful purple wrap arrogance, as if at that moment she felt cured of the disease that their belly scratched and heart failure, which oppressed her lungs.
Chubby face trembling joy fat folds of his chin quivered on the lace surplice.
Biretta Cardinal seemed to swell with pride over his head small, white and pink.
Never was carried a crown so proudly as that red hat.
He extended his purple-gloved hand on which shone the emerald bishops, and a imperious gesture had one after another they were kissing all the canons.
Was the submission Men's Church, accustomed from an apparent humility seminar that covers resentment and hatred of an intensity not seen in ordinary life.
Cardinal guessed the discouragement after this modesty and savored his triumph. - You do not know what our hatred - had said several times to his friend the gardener -.
In ordinary life there are few men who die of disgust.
But in the Church include hundreds who die a fit of anger could not revenge, because the discipline they shut up and Abbe his head.
Lacking family and concerns for bread, most of us only live for the self-esteem and pride.
Procession was formed in the town hall, accompanied by His Eminence.
Led the way, the dogcatcher red the black vergers Silver Stick, rattling the tiles with the blows of canes.
Behind the archbishop and the canons cross pairs, and ultimately the prelate, with its red tail, extending along its length, carried aloft by two pages.
Don Sebastian blessed and fro, looking with their little eyes piercing the faithful, who bowed head.
The temple was his home, and returned to it after a long absence, with all the majesty of an owner I could crush all the slaves who dared to attack him cursing.
The strong man who came to the top became a powerful and awesome God.
Nothing harmful equality and revolutionary.
The largest was always right.
In the choir, the joy of your pride like an even greater satisfaction.
He sat in the throne of the archbishop of Toledo, that chair had been the star of his youth, and the memory of which troubled him in the middle of the episcopate, when he walked through the provinces miter waiting time to get to the Primacy.
There stood under the canopy artistic Mount Tabor on four steps to being seen well all the choir and be convinced that was his prince.
The heads of the dignitaries were seated by his side almost to the level of his feet.
Underfoot like snakes could rise again if they dared, in his most biting intimate affection.
Inspired by the appreciation of his greatness and success, was the first to stand or sit, as it marked the ritual of the trades, and joined its voice to the chorus, amazing all with the rough energy of his singing.
The Latin words came from his mouth as blunderbuss against those people hated, and his eyes went to challenge on the expression of two rows of heads slopes.
He was a man of fortune, who had gone from success to success, and yet had never felt a satisfaction so deep, so complete as that of the time.
It seemed I was spending a few hours supply all his life.
After the Mass, the singers and other young folks in the choir, who were the only ones who dared look at him, became alarmed when he saw him pale, haggard face up to, taking the hands to the chest.
Warned the canons, they ran to him, forming a tight mass of garments red before his throne.
Even in the midst of his anguish, he found the strong signal and its former soldier votes repel the enemy.
Drowning, but did not want to be looked upon the canons.
And supported by two faithful family, rode off toward the stairs panting archbishop followed by much of the council.
To forgive the Virgin, another year would have increased solemnity.
And the authorities and guests left their seats to run altar demand for news in the Episcopal Palace.
On waking Gabriel, past noon, all spoke in the upper cloister of his health Eminence.
His brother asked Aunt Tomasa, who came from the palace. - You die, children - said the gardener -; of this is no exception.
The Doctors say it through the night.
The agony of the ecclesiastical prince was greeted with a funereal silence.
Women in Claverias came and went with news from the palace to the upper cloister.
The youngsters remained held in the rooms, frightened by the threats of the mothers if they tried to play in the galleries.
The choirmaster, always insensitive to the events of the cathedral, leaving, however, to take state news of His Eminence.
Had a project, who spoke quickly the family during dinner.
The funeral of a cardinal well deserved to run a celebrated Mass with full orchestra recruited in Madrid.
It was for all he was interested in the fate of the prelate.
Gabriel looked at his companion, he felt the sweet egoism experiences living when Die powerful. - Since the great fall, Sagrario.
And we sick, wretched, still lie ahead some life.
At the time the temple was closed down to begin the surveillance.
The sexton was waiting with the keys. - What about the Cardinal? - Asked Gabriel. - Well, it dies today, if not already dead.
And then he added: - Tonight, Gabriel, you have great lighting.
The Virgin is on the altar, until tomorrow, surrounded by candles.
He paused, as if hesitating. - Maybe - he said - down to make a bit of company.
When Gabriel was locked in the temple, he saw a piece of glowing altar lights.
He made his usual requisition of doors and gates, visited the Locum, large closets, where once they had hidden thieves, and then he was convinced that in the cathedral there was no other living being that he was to sit on the cruise with his blanket and Shopping for dinner.
He stayed there a long time, staring through the fence the Virgen del Sagrario.
Born in the cathedral and led a child by his mother to kneel before the statue, had admired as the most perfect type of beauty.
It was ugly and grotesque, like all images that are rich.
The sumptuous and opulent mercy had disguised its treasures.
There was nothing in it of idealism painted Virgins by Christian artists.
Rather it was an idol of Hindu ornate jewelry.
The skirt and the mantle is recessed with the bombast of a crinoline, and you touch a crown huge as a Morion, dwarfing the face.
He wore earrings and bracelets of great value.
Gabriel smiled thinking of the religious simplicity, you saw the heroes under heaven the fashions of the earth.
The faint glow of the sunset coming down from the windows and the anxious calls of candles formed a ripple of light and shadow, animating the face image as gesture. "Even as I am! - Was said Gabriel -.
If my place was a devout believe that Lady laughs a few moments and then cries.
With a little imagination and faith, behold a miracle!
These vagaries of light have been an inexhaustible mine for priests.
Venus also other times changed the expression on his face, laughing or crying like the faithful as a Christian image. " He thought a long time in the miracle invention of all religions, and as old as human ignorance and credulity.
After dinner sparingly, Gabriel opened a book he had in his basket and stood to read in the light of his flashlight.
Occasionally raised his head, distracted by the fluttering and the cries of the night big birds, attracted by the extraordinary glow of the forest of candles.
In the darkness of the vaults echoed the Argentina hammered the warriors of the clock.
Luna got up and ran the church, visiting the counters to make his rounds.
Had struck ten, when he heard Gabriel opened the shutters of the front of Santa Catalina, but quickly and without violence, as if they had made use of a key.
Luna recalled Ringer offer.
Then they heard the footsteps of several people, but enlarged by echo, as if you advance an entire army. - Who? - Cried Gabriel, something alarmed. - We, the man - said the voice in the dusky shadows of Mariano -.
Upon entering the cruise gave full light of the high altar.
Gabriel was with the ringer to Tato and zapaterillo.
Luna wanted to accompany part of the night, so you will not be so heavy guard, and brought a bottle of brandy that was offered. - You know I do not drink - "Gabriel -.
But where are you going, dressed like the holidays?
El Tato was quick to respond.
Silver Stick closed at nine in the Claverias, and they wanted to spend the night away from home.
They had already been a long time in a coffee Zocodover gifts like gentlemen.
That night was extraordinary, especially since the city was also impaired at the archbishop. - What next? - Asked Gabriel. - I think he died half an hour ago - said the sexton -.
When I uploaded to my home at keys, a doctor came out of the palace, and so he said to a Canon ....
They took every seat, his cap pulled, on the steps of the altar gate.
Mariano put down the bunch of keys, a bunch of iron as a club.
They were of all times: a gross and rusty, with traces of the hammer, displaying shields near the handle, more modern, polished and shiny as if they were silver, but all huge and heavy, sturdy teeth, which suited the grandeur of the building.
The three friends seemed extremely happy, with a joy that made them nervous push and laugh.
They looked askance at the Virgin and then looked at each other with a gesture mystery he could not understand Gabriel. - You have drunk a lot, right? - Said Luna with a gentle reproach -.
Do evil, as you know drinking is the degradation of the poor. - One day is one day, man - said the dog catcher -.
The only satisfaction you poor is to see those above them also comes a time. - Baby - Ringer said, offering the bottle -.
Tato drank, and passed the bottle to the shoemaker, who was long with his mouth close to neck.
Of the three, it seemed the most drunk.
Necessarily only smile when I ran the word as if his thoughts were far, far away.
The sexton, however, was more talkative than usual.
He spoke of the cardinal's fortune, of how rich it would be Dona Visitation of the joy that would have that night many of council.
And was interrupted for empinar the bottle of brandy, then passing the peers.
The alcohol vapor is spread in that environment steeped in incense smoke wax.
But this morning, at home, lamenting the misery, we have seen the salvation soon
