I no longer had a woman at his side as an extension inevitable; living among men ...
And appreciated chastity as a pleasure that was offered with all the charms of new.
The Count and he spoke little, but spent long hours together, sitting next to the wheel the helm, watching the sea.
Were more friends than on land, although they passed among them limited words.
The common life slowed down the arrogance of pretending diplomat and was the captain discover new merits in him.
The ease with which he walked around the ship and certain technical words used against their will Ferragut allowed no more doubts about his true profession. - You are a Marine - he said suddenly.
The Count nodded, judging dissimulation useless.
Undoubtedly it was a naval officer, and a fleet should come from all sailors blonde who worked as automatons.
The discipline made them follow the orders of Ferragut, but they guessed that his command was no more than a simple delegation, and that the real leader board was the Count.
The schooner came in sight of the islands of Lipari, then twisting course toward the West, followed the Sicilian coast from Cape Gallo after San Vito.
From this set her bow to the Southwest, going in search of the islands Egadi.
To expect in these waters, where it begins to narrow the Mediterranean between Tunisia and Sicily towering volcanic peak of Pantelleria island in the middle of the huge close.
Short enough for him to count instructions so that the direction taken by Ferragut was under to his wishes.
Ended up not hide the admiration he felt for his master navigator. - Well you know the sea - said the count.
The captain shrugged smiling.
Could call mare nostrum, just like the Romans, their former rulers.
As if divining the bottom to the naked eye, kept the ship on the edge of extensive bank of Adventure.
Sailed slowly with only a few candles, crossing and recrossing the same waters.
Kaledine, to spend two days, began to fret.
Ferragut heard repeatedly muttering how Gibraltar's name.
The passage from the Atlantic to the Mediterranean was the greatest danger for he expected.
From the deck of the schooner could only see a short distance, and the count rose again and times scales of rope rigging, to cover his eyes with a larger space.
Should do course in the same direction.
Ferragut obeyed him, and half an hour after they appeared, one after another, two long vessels and low railing, sailing at high speed.
They were like destroyers, but without masts, without chimneys, sliding almost at water level, painted a gray color that made them confused with the sea at a distance.
Placed on both sides of the boat, approaching it in such a way that seemed likely encontrón to crush with their helmets.
Several metal wires grew out of their covers to screw in the sticks of the schooner aground, forming a single mass of the three ships, which together followed the slow wave of the sea.
Ulysses looked curiously at the two co-flotation. "These were the famous underwater? ...
Saw its steel roof hatches and chimneys protruding round, by poking groups of animals.
The officers and crew were dressed as fishermen from the coast North, wearing one-piece waterproof and waxed hull.
Many of them waved high in these helmets, and the Count replied waving his cap.
Blonde sailors the schooner shouted, responding to the cheers of his comrades of the submersible "Deutschland über alles !...» But this excitement in the solitude of the sea, which amounted to a song gives triumph lasted very little.
Whistles sounded, the men ran covered sidewalks, and Ferragut saw invaded the vessel by two rows of sailors.
At a time when the hatches were opened, hit a sound of broken timber and cans of essence began to be transhipped from both sides.
In around the boat was filled with water drawers open, they walked away with gentle floating.
The Count heard in the stern a man dressed in waterproof fabric, which was an officer.
He related the passage through the Strait of Gibraltar completely submerged, looking through the periscope the English torpedo on security patrol. - Nothing major - continued the officer -, nor the slightest incident ...
A great navigation. - May God punish England! "- Said the count, now called the commander. - May God punish! - Said the officer, as if to say "Amen." Ferragut saw forgotten, ignored by all these men who filled the schooner.
Some sailors pushed him in the haste of their work.
Was the patron of the boat, a civilian lack of hierarchy to be men of war.
Began to understand why he had been given command of the small vessel.
The count remained.
Saw him approaching as if he suddenly remembered, holding out his right hand with kindness comradery. - Captain, thank you very much.
This service is for those who are not forgotten.
And as if presented to another person, said their names ceremoniously: Archibald von Kramer, Lieutenant of the Imperial Navy ...
His personality was not entirely diplomatic false.
He had served as naval attache at various embassies.
Could expect to face Palermo.
Should hand over the reins to the true owner of the schooner: a coward who had become too expensive to pay the rent of the ship, but without daring to threaten him.
In the chamber were the papers in order to justify this navigation. - Say hello on my behalf to the ladies ...
Ferragut he saw Von Kramer introduced by the hood Open one of the submarines.
Then she thought she recognized in the other two sailors submersible of those who had manned the schooner, which was received with shouts and hugs his comrades, then getting a tubular hatch.
Ulysses had not imagined that the small vessel will many boxes.
When the warehouse was empty, the last sailors disappeared Germanic and with them the cables that held the boat.
The two submersibles, more flattened on the sea on his arrival, with swollen deposits essence and oil, began to move away.
But looking to the three passengers and the boy who had been the only crew forgot his remorse.
Should move a lot to make up for this lack of arms.
Two nights and one day just rested, driving around the same time the rudder and engine, it did not dare to employ all their sails with this shortage of men.
When he found himself in a sunrise, opposite the port of Palermo, who began to extinguish their lights, Ferragut could sleep for the first time, leaving manager to one of the sailors surveillance the ship, which was maintained with the canopy collected.
By mid-morning he was awakened voices shouting from the sea, "Where is the captain?" He saw a boat and several men who jumped to the schooner.
He was the owner, who came to recover their vessel to enter port it legally.
The same can be commissioned to carry Ulysses ashore with his little suitcase.
Ulysses without knowing why, nodded.
This was a German bourgeois indignation: one of those who helped the doctor.
Half an hour later, Ferragut jumped into a dock, no one objected to his landing like protecting their fellow obese sleep every surveillance.
Despite this, the good Lord showed a burning desire away from him, to flee, according to their own issues.
He smiled when he learned that Odysseus wanted to leave immediately for Naples. "You do well ..." The train departed two hours later.
And I got into a cab, disappearing precipitation.
The captain, being alone, almost thought he had dreamed the previous days.
Palermo came back to see after an absence of many years.
Experienced the joy of a Sicilian banished to cross the country with several cars pulled by hacks whose feathers and boxes defaced depicting scenes from the liberated Jerusalem.
He recalled the names of main roads, which were those of old Spanish viceroys.
He saw the statues in a square four kings of Spain ...
But all these things inspired him only a fleeting interest.
He was concerned about the extraordinary movement of the streets, the crowd forming groups to hear reading newspapers.
Many windows were intertwined with national flags France, England and Belgium.
Italy had broken off relations the day before with the Central Powers.
Ulysses felt troubled by anxiety, remembering what he had done in the Mediterranean.
Popular groups believed cheering passing behind the flags were going to guess his achievement, landing on him.
Needed to get away from this patriotic enthusiasm, and felt satisfied to be inside of a car ...
Also, going to see Freya, and its image was enough to evoke to vanish all his remorse.
The journey was long and difficult.
The necessities of war were being felt from the first time absorbing all the media.
The train stood still for hours to make way for other trains loaded with men and military equipment.
In all seasons there were soldiers in battle dress, flags, crowds cheered.
When he reached Naples, fatigued by a journey of forty-eight hours, it seemed that the driver too slowly headed towards the old palace of Chiaia.
In crossing the hall with his little suitcase, cut him off the goalkeeper, thick comadre frizzy hair and dusty, there were only interviewed a few times in the depths of his cave. - The ladies do not live in the house ...
The ladies have gone suddenly with Karl, his employee.
And he explained the rest of this flight with a hostile and evil smile.
Ferragut knew he should not insist.
The big woman was furious about the leak of the ladies Tedesco, and examining the ocean as a suspected spy, good for a complaint patriotic.
However, professional honesty, we warned that the blonde signora, the youngest and sympathetic had thought of him to leave, leaving his luggage in the goal.
Ulises hastened to disappear.
At his entrance, the goalkeeper made a gesture of surprise and astonishment.
Before he reached Ferragut to ask for Freya, with the vague hope that they had taken refuge in the hotel, this man gave him the news. - Captain, his son was here, waiting.
The captain stammered, confused: "What son ?...» The man brought the keys embroidered travel book, showing a line: "Esteban Ferragut.
Barcelona. "And recognized Ulysses the letter of your child while he pressed his chest with an indescribable anguish.
The shock left him speechless, and the porter took advantage of his silence to keep talking.
Some mornings he had accompanied him to teach best of the city.
He had been connected with the consignees of the Mare Nostrum, looking everywhere for news of his father.
At last, convinced that the captain was and back to Barcelona, ??had started to turn the previous day. - If you get twelve hours before, still here.
Busy to meet the orders of a South American ladies, no was able to greet the young man when he left the hotel.
Torn between making the trip on a steam English to Marseilles or go by train to Genoa, where to find direct ship Barcelona.
Ferragut wanted to know when he arrived, and the porter, raising his eyes, turned to a during mental arithmetic ...
Was given a slap on the forehead, rough as a punch.
Almost came to believe that he had lived twice.
His second will expected at any moment.
The captain is going to get from one point to another ...
