Subcarbonate of potash is a most worthy drug to be used in this fatal disease have taught workshops considered essential in the beginning of the pulmonary tuberculizacion.
It is also very suitable in conditions from asthma, particularly in the hydrothorax.
In general water-soaked conditions, the pilot should focus attention on subcarbonate potash, especially when the functions of the skin seem abolished, that this surface dry, sometimes with tenderness, and always with a certain street, thickening and hardening of the epidermis.
This drug is more effective in people hidrohemia venous or scrofulous, and this effectiveness is most noticeable in anasarca, in the ascites hydrothorax, in edemas of the extremities and even in heartwater: these cases are that this drug has the serous infiltration of the upper eyelid as a symptom characteristic.
Rheumatic or arthritic pains typical of this medicine is never a lack of swelling.
This is sometimes a simple edema below the painful joint, pain are more alive in the second part of the night and during the movement, are accompanied by tenderness of the affected part and followed by chills and weakness.
Cachexia hidrohémica is inseparable, the sick are very impressionable to the cold, and are willing to move congestive irregular or Scythian blood.
These movements characterize the slow fever that occurred for the chronic state by this drug, the muscle weakness is large, the general innervation is weakened There are weaknesses, and the blood does not stimulate the body sufficiently.
In these circumstances more or less pronounced, are the hits are developed epileptic spasms the hemicráneas, neuralgia, which have analogy or similarity to the sub-carbonate of potash.
The endless convalescence which is effective this drug are seen in this nervous fatigue and the impoverishment of the blood, are also the losses from humoral continuous.
Not strange, then, in view of the esponse, this drug may agree: 1. º in certain paralytic conditions developed slowly, but under perhaps also to the sea salt to the barium, sulfur and arsenic, 2. º in amaurosis emerging 3. º in disecea 4. º in infarction and liabilities scrofulous glands and the glands; 5. º in rebel urinary incontinence, and diabetic albuminurie some affection.
The usefulness of potash subcarbonate skin diseases is indisputable, and admire the truth is that modern writers have been busy so little about him, being so remarkable the following symptoms that determined in healthy man impervious to dry skin as sweat sensation and ulceration of skin burning, itching, burning, itching, yellow spots red or itchy or burning and oozing serum after scratching, miliary eruption and vesicular blue frostbite, bleeding ulcers, furfuraceous spots, especially on the forehead, behind the ears cold, pimples, freckles, warts on the face, rough hands and slag, corrosive vesicles in the fingers, red swelling in fingers the feet and hands, nose, like chilblains, nails in the feet, sweating in the armpit sweating in the feet foul.
There are circumstances in which the lower dose is the most convenient, it also uses a few drops or blood About the sixth and twelfth attenuation, when the condition being treated, is similar only to the effects of irritation and congestive of this medicine.
Nitric KALI (AZOATO OF POTASH SALT .-- NITRO). § I. - History.
Nitro salt or potash azoato is well known from the remotest times.
Posted in the class of cardiac-vascular hipostenizantes by Giacomini, and confused by more with several drugs whose effects differ so much, just being consistent on one point vague or indefinite, ie, on a remote analogy with any part of the circulatory system.
Monsieur Trousseau salt is in everything unlike nitro professor of Padua, and makes him a excitants, making the Experience "Jory one of the physiological effects of this substance, increased urinary secretion.
Hahnemann and many doctors after he undergoes in the belief have to find in this drug as an agent of healing more powerful, since antiquity was recognized that science effects, until his time nothing was added.
We believe, however, that the experiments have not responded fully to the expectations that had been conceived, or rather, has not been found a sphere of action so as he had tried Este. § II .-- physiological and therapeutic effects.
A moderate dose and also in the first moment of action of large doses, but not toxic the potash azoato gently stimulates the digestive functions, developed lancinating pain and excites the heart and circulation.
These phenomena are essentially passengers and do well asthenic soon rise to fixed and opposite effects, so to speak.
Moreover, since first moment of their action and this excitement, we see as a character weakness due to the predominant influence of drug action in venous blood in the system capillary and nerve ganglion, hence it is the place crowded and under the influence of phenomena are, he discovers a collection of sedation, the blood circulation and the system altered nerve relationship, or simply are affected, and are not drawn to participate of synergies whose starting point is the ganglionic nervous system, and agents live in the capillary system on venous blood and organs of nourishing life.
The symptoms of this initial period is most manifest in the afternoon and evening that day, the touch, movement and above all the excitement and chills, soothe pain, heat relieves all ailments, and these circumstances, which expresses fatigue belong to the symptoms of nitro salt throughout the duration and extent of its action.
There is also cool with thirst; the evening chills and night heat are without it, daily fever, headaches, unbearable to get off, congestive redness in the face with aggravation of headaches, violent inflammation of the stomach, urination, excitement of the genito-urinary symptoms of inflammation in hemoptysis, chest, violent heart palpitations, especially in bed, bleeding of an acre or black blood.
Nothing in these symptoms is an element of true inflammation, or the burning of the eyes and nose, or by some inflammatory symptoms of the nose and ear, or the burning thirst, lancinating pains, cramps, bloody vomituriciones that accompany the inflammation of the stomach, or the kind of dysentery caused by salt nitro, or symptoms of bronchitis and pneumonia.
We have already seen expressing his elective action of the salt of nitro in the nervous system lymph nodes and related organs more or less directly with him, and with systems venous and capillary, now let us see how to complete this action to be elective chronic in the organs particularly encouraged by the nerves of organic life, ie in viscera and nutrition system.
The stomach and lungs that we have already spoken, are the organs most affected in their tone singularly diminished.
The heart is the point where they leave the pains which extend back, the pulse is feverish and more nervous than blood, there beats tumultuous, especially at night and in bed, and announce congestion, caused by a plethora passive recumbency, accompanied by anxiety, constriction and oppression.
These circumstances and status of anemia or cachexia of the patients are a valuable indication for using this medicine venous plethora in the heart, the lung and abdominal viscera.
The symptoms that relate to the physiological and organic denote cachexia, which blood seems deprived of its vital and life-giving qualities, and therefore private the influence on the composition of the blood nerve ganglion as seen by the following symptoms: pale and sickly, great leeway in the morning, continued weakness, the more lax than exercising while seated muscle forces, comatose or restless sleep, nightmares, bleeding from a black blood does not clot, weakness of sight and hearing, loss of appetite, nausea, gas.
There is despair, anxiety and fear of death, drawing pains in the limbs with paralytic weakness, sweating morning especially in the chest, sweating colliquative, subcutaneous nodules, vesicles, serous burning; scorbutic swelling and bleeding of the gums, painful discomfort in the throat, and passive state resulting in the rapid formation of bottlenecks almost suspended respiration; colliquative diarrhea, uterine congestion excesses rules, leukorrhea accompanied serosa backache.
In all of these symptoms is indicated azoato of potash, and therefore in cachectic states characterized by congestive movements, which, although asthenic, present phenomena erethism orgasm local and febrile momentary state if necessary to compare him with any drug, rather serious with arsenic and not to aconite and wants Rau.
It remains to identify the signs of the salt of nitro in neuralgic affections.
Known and the general character and spread of this drug, as well as their pain dislacerantes or lancinating in the joints and the face, etc members., with aggravation by night or the end of the day is still necessary to determine, for the sick, the conditions been repeatedly mentioned in this article to choose salt as the drug nitro appropriate, this is how it will proceed to take this salt a remedy for some eSCelente neuralgia and rheumatism. = Dose .=-- The application of this medicine in the disease which is indicated by relationship similarity, requires small doses, as already mentioned for other drugs.
The administration, therefore, 1 to 2 decigrammes of the first, second or third attenuation occurs every hour the best results, better even than the simple solution of this salt in small doses.
The use of potash azoato sedative purposes, it is routine for a panacea that could not media replaced with smoother and safer.
Lycopodium clavatum (Lycopodium). § I. - History.
Using the pollen of lycopodium clavatum family of mosses, Juss .-- Of the cryptogams, Linn .-- The preparation given to the powder consists of successive crushing sugar milk.
This operation breaks the shell of the pollen grains or ears, clearing the essence or substance containing given.
Can be used from the first shredding up the tenth or twentieth, to make a colored dye lycopodium white light that makes the water drops which are cast and deposits small crystals or granules budding.
Pollen, only part used today, is a substance to which many doctors have attributed significant virtues, since, as ointment and tincture, simply because the dust has been used in skin irritations, abrasions, ulcers, ringworm and intertrigo.
It is very popular use in the latter affection: he employs dusting the joints and skin folds of obese children and to prevent irritation or abrasions.
Since it is known that similar effects lycopodium in healthy man and the priest took him just inside, no one can doubt that its application external, according to the popular method, does not enjoy any action by absorption verification.
There are more, taken within the same powder, has been recommended and used by pilots experiments, the heartburn, flatulent colic, dysentery, calculous affections, rheumatism, epilepsy, lung diseases.
But the diseases that most frequently he was given the old, were those of the urinary tract.
Questioned today about the use of lycopodium in most of the conditions mentioned, but more accurately formulating his instructions.
Details raised over twenty years, between German and French physicians on the actual activity of lycopodium, have been judged by many studies, publishing results they obtained.
These publications are important and interesting in the extreme.
Solo mentioned those of doctors and Chargé Lobethan.
Lycopodium, as most of the drugs deep and lasting action, and to the that they can be referred to justice to Hahnemann antipsorics the title, extends their influence on lymph node innervation to all systems and all the apparatus, being recognized an elective action on the fiber, or rather on the organic plot, and cellular and fibrous and bone, on the heart, veins and capillaries, in the vessels and lymph nodes, in exhalant and absorbent surfaces, in serous and mucous membranes, skin.
If the study of their effects in the domain of esperimentacion physiological and clinical turns out to have a sphere of action very extensive, indicates also a very special feature and that is the relationship of this medicine with a beginning herpetic latent or declared, to the point that all seem to go their therapeutic properties the herpes under its various forms in the aircraft skin, mucous, lymph, and to the sympathetic conditions that depend on herpetic diathesis and alternating with its explosion exterior.
In fairness it has been said that developing better drug effects healing in people of any age who have had ringworm, cradle cap or serpiginous in childhood.
In general, the club moss, positis ponendis, is more effective in those quiet, nodes, but irritable, whose health is easily disturbed and suffering from intestinal irritation with difficulty and lack of bowel, where they have colds easily, and enjoy of robust health, and endowed with a delicate constitution, in women with menstrual long-lasting and suffering irritation, chronic abnormal secretions, and in men and children willing to irritations or internal psoric terns, all suffering from conditions neuralgic alternating with those of the skin.
Under this view, the club moss has great therapeutic analogy with sulfur, calcium carbonate, sea salt.
Has many points of contact with various drugs: in febrile diseases with arsenic, phosphorus, sulfur, in the febrile cachexia, with mercury, arsenic, phosphoric acid, nux vomica, in rheumatic diseases accidents and arthritis, with causticum, sulfur, and in skin diseases with machine, graphite, Spanish fly, in psychosis, with carbonate of lime, yours, phosphorus; in inflammations, with sepia, sulfur, arsenic, in phthisis, with subcarbonate potassium, iron, in the gastro-urinary, with gold, belladonna, phosphorus; in scrofula with sulfur, calcium carbonate, iodine, in the affections of the bones, with silica, gold, mercury, in hemorrhoidal disease and venous sulfur, graphite, charcoal, in the Stomach, with nux vomica, the carbonate of lime, Sepia, in the moral and hypochondriacal conditions with arsenic, pulsatilla ....
It is known that many chronic conditions are internal relations with other skin conditions in nature herpetic, and convinced that both are replaced and supplement each other.
You can cite mainly Ringworm relations with consumption, ie the lungs, those of the anus dartros and scrotum with the liver, eczema of the ears of the bronchi, those of the dartros of the legs, stomach and intestines; of cold wet arms and hands with asthma nervous of acne rosacea with disorders of the heart, the scrotum pórrigo and impotence penis .....
The effects of lycopodium is also the erethism account of the blood system with a exhalant system opposite state, a state of opposition between the skin and mucous membranes pulmonary and gastro-intestinal, at first loosely, in the second with tension, in the mucous hypersecretion, in skin dryness, and vice-versa, a herpetic affection, a state excoriation of the skin and surface cracks, or split dartros deep, alternating with intestinal disorders, the flashing of certain neuralgias and reproduction each two or four days, the swelling of the feet and pain several interested parties, emphysema subcutaneous tissue, bloating and chronic constipation, spasmodic conditions Urinary tract; disposition to a cold and cold in robust persons, in others diminution of vital heat and organizational weakness, the aggravation of symptoms and nerve febrile afternoon in the cool exterior, in wet weather and the rest.
Walking through morbid cases in which advantageously plays lycopodium, establish indications of its use, according to the symptoms specific to each condition, and the reader will find also physiological effects, but ordered therapeutically. § III .-- therapeutic effects. = A. = slow fevers.
Lycopodium .-- Although tuberculosis is more especially useful in disease chronic, such as sea salt, it is not unusual to use him in some febrile diseases, such as typhoid fever and ataxic nerve or in the period of decrease, with alternatives the big chill and heat without burning in the head, congestion of the face, but only redness the cheeks, sweating and do not relieve debilitating, redness and dryness of the tongue, constipation, ESRD.
In these cases, the lycopodium is indicated by the steady-state fever and the symptoms of other drugs.
The pulmonary tuberculosis with purulent expectoration usually drink the salty, obstinate constipation and extremely sensitive to cold, is typical of the medicine, observing further: the coloring circumscribed in the cheeks, swelling of the face and hands, burning with heat incomplete respiration, alternative chill and heat, night sweats and chest the back, heat in the palms, nervous excitement, great impressionability and access senders.
Lycopodium is more effective when the consumption is the result of pneumonia, is equally useful in phthisis and bronchitis mucosa with purulent expectoration, and the tin is an analogous, but if you have diarrhea or normal regularity and easy rules, it is preferable whipped acid.
Lycopodium is indicated even in certain fevers subacute dependent irritation with on the skin or on mucous membranes, in consequence of a rash or a listed or acute herpes disappears in the midst of a stormy disturbance of the economy so as envisaged that correspond to certain angina medication, leucorrhoea, rashes very pronounced, fluxion on the cheek, hemorrhoids, usually with intermittent chills neuralgias repeated. = B = Neuralgia.
Neuropathies .-- The toothache, sciatica and other neuralgias own the club moss are accompanied or followed by more or less flegmásicas swelling, edema, pain friendly in a distant organ or which extend to the adjacent parts, sciatica order that binds or complicated by lumbago.
Lycopodium pains are generally dislacerantes and lancinating, sometimes very violent, but not continuous, they are more alive at night and at rest, or they appear in these circumstances, and also in wet weather.
Pain at the entrance of movements observed in congestive face, burning in the limbs, large irritable, spasmodic tics, tremors, cramps, convulsive movements are also physiological symptoms which make him suitable lycopodium to combat the painful and spasmodic tics.
It also preceded the pain stiffness, weakness and laxity of the muscles.
Spasmodic conditions and epilepsy same, as healing has been attributed to lycopodium, presented a general and nervous symptoms just eat ESPON.
Many of lycopodium further indicate its action on contractility of the fiber.
