It seemed almost impossible in the aboard vessels had, but had hopes that we send the help of land it was evident that the crew of a ship wrecked just bivouacked in it, and no could be far one of the sloops of war whose departure for such cases should have naval authority provisions of Cadiz ...
The Lightning got new shots, and we expect relief with the greatest impatience, because if not come soon, all would perish with the ship.
This unhappy invalid, whose fund was open to running aground, threatened to break apart by their own seizures, and could not take the time, the nails unhinged some of its frames, we would be at the mercy of the waves, without more support than they gave us the disordered wreck.
The ground could not help us, but God wanted me to hear a cannon fire alarm sloop that had been at sea from Chipiona, and we came over the bow, keeping a good distance.
Since its large mainsail sighted we secure our salvation, and Ray commander gave orders for the transfer is verified without trampling on such dangerous times.
My original intention when I saw that it was transhipped, was run alongside the two people there interested me: the gentleman Malespina and Martial, both injured, but the second was not serious.
I cured him as I could, consoling words of hope and even tried to laugh, ridiculing their looks, to see if he thus revived.
But poor old man did not open his lips, bent his head rather gloomily, insensitive my jokes as well as my consolation.
Busy on this, I did not realize he had begun boarding the boats.
Most of the first that they were dropped D.
José María Malespina and his son.
My first impulse was to go after them following the orders of my master, but the image of the sailor wounded and left stopped me.
Many were cast into the water to reach by swimming.
In my imagination crossed a terrible problem the idea of ??which of these two procedures to employ save.
There was no time to lose, because the beam is disrupted, nearly all the stern was sunk, and outbreaks of the beams and half-rotten timbers announced that it mole that would soon cease to be a boat.
Everyone ran swiftly toward the boat, and the sloop, which was kept at a distance, maneuvering ability to resist the sea, I gathered.
I watched the neglect that was half-man, and went crying and stifled some sailors, asking them to save Marcial loaded.
But Hart did save them to himself.
In a moment of desperation I tried myself to echármele in tow, but my barely managed to boost flagging strength of his arms ground unconscious.
I ran across the deck looking for a kind soul, and some were about to yield to my entreaties, but the danger distracted them such a good thought.
To understand this inhuman cruelty, we must have found in trances so terrible: the feeling and love disappear before the instinct conservation being completely dominates, which equates to a beast sometimes. "Oh, the wicked do not want to save, Marcial! - Exclaimed with deep pain. - Let them - he said -.
It does not matter on board than on land.
Finally, more could the voice of nature that some other force, and say a few steps to the side.
Retreated to embrace the poor old, and then ran quickly to the point where the last sailors embarked.
I screamed with all my strength, but did not hear me or would not listen to me.
Despite the darkness, I saw the boat, I saw them climb it, but this operation could only be seen by the eye.
I started to throw the water to follow the same fate, but in the instant that my will is determined in this resolution, my eyes stopped seeing boat sailors, and before me there was nothing but the grim darkness of the water.
I turned my eyes to all sides, and saw nothing but the waves that shook the remains of the ship, in heaven or a star on the coast or a light.
The sloop had gone well.
Under my feet, kicked in anger, the hull Beam is broken into pieces, and only kept together and complete the bow, with cover full of debris.
I was on a raft report that at times threatened to unravel.
Seeing me in such a situation, I ran Marcial saying "I have left, have left us!".
The old man rose with great difficulty, leaning on his hand, lifted his head and walked with his troubled view the gloomy space around us. "Nothing! - Said -; not see anything.
The citadel was bent violently from one side, and it was necessary I'll get us strongly to the base of the meter to avoid falling into the water.
The apartment we missing, the last remnant of the Lightning would be swallowed by the waves.
But as hope is not never leave, I still thought it possible that this situation will last until dawn without worse, and very comforting to see that the ratchet pole was still standing.
In order firm to ride him when the town had just sinking, the tree looked as proud floating ragged pieces of ropes and sails, and resisting, the shaggy giants despair asking for mercy to heaven.
Marcial was dropped on the deck, and then said: "There is no hope, Gabrielillo.
Nor do they want to return, or the sea would leave if they tried.
Because God wants it, here we both die.
For me nothing matters to me: I am an old and no good damn thing ...
you're a kid, y. .. " In saying that his voice became unintelligible by emotion and hoarseness.
Shortly after I heard clearly these words: "You have no sins, because you're a child.
Well, when you die and ...
going to say ...
well, the way a dog or cat does not need a priest to come and give you solution, but it is more than enough to understand oneself with God.
They say when you die and no priest to whom confession is, to say what is in consciousness at first found.
But now I regret not having done so, and I say, and declare, and perjury, that I love God and the Virgin and all the saints, and that everything they punished has offended me, because if I confessed and took communion this year was for that of the damned casacones, which made me go to sea when proeto had to comply with the Church.
I have never stolen or tip of a pin, nor have I told more lies than any other for that joke.
Of the clubs that gave my wife does thirty years, I'm sorry, but I think it were given, because it was bad the churros, and with a genius more than a scorpion lapilli.
I have not missed not so much to what rules Ordinance, not hate anyone but the casacones, who had wanted to see action hash, but they say that we are all children of God, I forgive them, and themselves forgive the French, who have brought us this war.
I say no more, because I think I'm going to full sail.
Gabrielillo, Just take me, and apriétate well against me.
You have no sins, and you'll walk finiqueleando with heavenly angels.
Better to die at your age that live in this world dogged ...
With that mind, boy, that this is over.
The water rises, and the Lightning is gone forever.
The death of drowning is very good: do not panic ...
Within a short time we will be free of grief, I give account to God for my peccadilloes, and you happy as a lark dancing through the sky, which is carpeted with stars, and there seems that happiness is never finished, because is eternal, which is like "the other, tomorrow and tomorrow and tomorrow and the next and always ..." He could not talk anymore.
I grabbed tightly to the body of Middle-man.
A violent coup Tues struck the bow of the ship, and felt the scourge of water on my back.
At the same moment I lost all feeling, and did not know what happened. -XVI- Again, do not know when my spirit dimly illuminate the notion of life, I felt a cold intense, and only this accident I broke the very existence, since no memory of the past kept my mind could not take care of my new situation.
When my ideas were clarified and lethargy faded from my senses, I found myself lying on the beach.
Some men were all around me, watching with interest.
I remembered Martial and I think the first words were articulated by my lips to ask him.
Among those around me recognized some sailors from the Lightning, I asked by Half-man, and all agreed that had perished.
Then I wanted to find out how I had saved, but neither gave me reason.
Diéronme not know what to drink, I was taken to a nearby house, where, by the fire, and care an old, my health, but not strength.
Then they told me that having gone another sloop to recognize the remains of the Lightning, and a French ship that ran the same fate, I found with Marcial, and could save my life.
I also knew that the journey of the shipwreck to the shore had died some unhappy.
I wanted to know what had become of Malespina, and no one gave me reason for the father or the son.
Asked by the Santa Ana, and they said they had arrived safely to Cadiz, on whose story decided to immediately get on track to meet my master.
I was a pretty distance from Cadiz, on the coast that corresponds to the right bank of the Guadalquivir.
Needed, Therefore, to march immediately to go as soon as possible so long project.
I waited two days to get over, and at last, accompanied by a sailor who had the same way, I set out to Sanlúcar.
On the morning of 27 remember that cross the river, and then continue our journey on foot to leave the coast.
As the sailor who accompanied me was hearty and happy, the trip was as enjoyable as I could expect, given the situation my spirit, even despondent over the death of Marcial and the last scenes that I witnessed on board.
Good employee is to have had. - He was a brave sailor - I said -, and so fond of war, nor their ailments will deterred when he tried to come to the square. - Because of this I say goodbye - continued the sailor -.
I do not want more battles at sea.
El Rey underpaid, and then if you become a lame or crippled, give you good night, and if you've seen I do not remember.
It seems incredible that the King case so badly that they serve.
Last year was in Cadiz a captain who, not knowing how to stay and support their children, began to serve in an inn.
His friends found him, though he tried to hide his misery, and finally succeeded him from such a vile state.
This does not happen on any nation in the world, and then scares we overcome the English!
Well, I say nothing of the weapons.
The arsenals are empty, and calling for more money to Madrid, or one quarter.
Truth is that all the treasures of King used to pay salaries to the lords of the Court, and between them the most is eating Prince of Peace, which brings together 40,000 Durazo as Counsellor of State, Secretary of State, as Captain General and as Sergeant Major of guards ...
At home I'm going with my wife and my children because I have met, and within a few days I have to give the license. - Well, you can not complain, my friend, if you had to go in the Ray, a ship that just came in action. - I was not in the Ray, but in the Bahamas, which was undoubtedly the best and vessels longer fight. - Has been arrested, and their commander was killed, if I remember correctly. - That was - answered -.
And I still feel like I mourn when I think of Don Dionisio Alcalá Galiano, mightiest army Brig.
That's right: had a strong temper and would not allow the smallest failure, but its much rigor force us to love him more, because the captain is fear for severe if accompanied severity justice, commands respect, and, finally, conquers the affection of the people.
You can also say that another gentleman, and more generous that D.
Dionisio Alcalá Galiano was not born in the world.
So when I wanted to give away friends, not beat around the bush, and once in Havana spent ten thousand dollars in a treat that gave aboard his ship. - I also heard it was very wise man sailing. - In sailing?
I'll tell you what happened in the Bahamas.
Since the battle began, D.
Dionisio Alcalá Galiano knew we had to lose, because that damn tack round ...
We defeated parties, attacking in two strong columns wedge ready mode, which is, say, the way to combat wearing the captain Moor Alexander the Great, and Napoleon also used today say
