Just remember having enjoyed a day of full health.
usually the stomach. - Poor digestion? - Yes, sir, have always been very difficult. - With pain? - I have not had until recently.
During childhood I have suffered much.
At fourteen or fifteen I started to feel better, eat with increased appetite and fat I put up because, of course, my temper, but when I reached twenty, I do not know if the much study or derangement meals, or lack of exercise, or all of this together, again exacerbated my illness, and I can say that for a long time, my life has been an ordeal.
Next Best life changing, but I have become to fall for some time. - What jobs do you do?
The young man hesitated a moment and replied: - I'ma writer. - Mala profession is a nature like yours.
The circumstances with which you work usually ...
to late at night, harassed by the lack of time ...
What you say that in some time now the disease has intensified the stomach? - The stomach, not so much: the worst is the weakness I feel in my body from For three or four months.
A total lack of strength.
As I climb four stairs, I get tired.
I can not lift the weight more insignificant ... - Have you had any syncope, dizziness or feel you head? - Dizziness, yes, sir, but I've never even lost consciousness.
However, in recent often times I feared falling into the street. - Do you cough you? - A month ago I have a dry little cough, sputum, and on Monday I have a little blood.
I was alarmed enough and went to see a doctor who knew ... - Is the blood came in the form of vomiting or mixed with saliva? - Just a little bit between the saliva. - Before, you had I not consulted? - Yes, sir, many times, but as it was a chronic illness, I was arranging with the old remedies: baking soda, magnesia, Quassia ... - Well, give me your hand.
The young man began to take off quickly.
However, he I watched him carefully, notice that had grown a little pale his face, and his hands were trembling.
Ribs could be counted at a respectful distance: the neck out of its long and narrow shoulders thin, and adorned with a prominent Adam's apple.
Sign that made him lie on the sofa and went to out of a closet a stethoscope.
Then he placed his knees beside the sofa, and began recognition.
The doctor lingered for a long time to feel and repalpar chest, supporting fingers and giving repeated taps on them.
On the right side something caught his attention, because they went there more often.
The young man watched askance at the doctor's impassive face.
But sadder still buzzing thinking by the brain of our patient, who I felt life slip out when he was on the threshold.
Every moment of the he had enjoyed flocked to his imagination: the life he had adorned and smiling like a beautiful woman waiting for him: to his pain and loss seemed kind at the moment I would be notified that he would feel them forever.
However, if your ideas and put him sad memories, failed to relent.
There in his soul such a fund of strength and pride, which he considered unworthy frightened by the prospect death.
The doctor took the instrument, he put on his chest and put his ear. - Tosa you ...
not so strong ...
There was a long silence. - Turn you a little ...
Tosa you again ...
Another silence, during which the patient began to caress a horrible idea. - Now you talk. - What do you want to talk? - Recite poems, as you are literate. - Well, recite the ones I agree at this time - said the young man smiled bitterly.
And he began to say aloud the poetry of Andrew admirable Chenier, entitled Le Jeune malade.
When he had recited a few verses, the doctor interrupted him: - Enough ...
A very long while he was a doctor with an attentive ear to in the depths of our young befell chest, exploring the slightest movements, more subtle sounds, like the thief who was night to enter a house.
A Sometimes she thought she felt the footsteps of death, such as those of his enemy soldier, and the front wrinkled old man, but returned to calm at the time, acquiring indifferent expression.
Meanwhile, the patient had fixed his eyes on the ceiling, where the signs were beginning to draw a grim decision.
The doctor finally lifted his head and coldly asked: - What doctor has told you that was in second grade of consumption? - None - said the patient with the same coldness.
The old man stood up briskly, and looked bewildered.
then I do not know what had happened. - Yes, I know you ...
Fortunately, it went well the trick, because I need not say that you do not have any lung injury: there is only a slight disorder in the functions.
What you need, obvious to anyone, because it leads written on the face: is the nineteenth century disease, particularly of large populations.
Inveterate dyspepsia who has not charged nor any injury stomach, and is completely curable.
Not you, therefore, nothing to fear, for now.
I stress these words for you to understand the urgency to get a priest, because the Eventually, the disease breeds and have you thought ...
And now offered for me serious difficulty.
Yo I can prescribe some medications to alleviate, but only momentarily.
Are you married or single? - Single. - But you have a woman who loves him too ... - Perhaps ...-- said the young man smiling and blushing slightly. - Would you strength to get away from it for a while?
No matter whether one place or another where you go, in the North or in the south, it is essential that you rest and breathe cleaner air, to run you among the trees a few times and others in the sun, you eat soft foods and nutrients, you get up early and not withdrawn later that barter, in short, artificial life and unhygienic leading the other natural and simple, and give that poor body which is crying out.
The old doctor was extended still quite giving advice about his conduct in the future.
The young man listened religiously, giving the reason in it.
The doctor would not consent: I felt very sympathetic towards the young writers, and in this case knew that the sympathy was even alive.
Carried him off from hand to the door of the room, and gave him another short farewell speech, giving affectionate pat on the shoulder - Do not be mad, not crazy, girl.
Be strong for life, you do not know what will happen when the release ...
And above all, more a bird in hand ...
Men who are like you courage and intelligence, should be reserved for large and useful.
You heal, to strengthen you your body and see how then do not feel such contempt for the existence ...
Do not let you write me soon since his retirement, to send you a recipe.
Is your name Andrés Heredia, is not it? ...
Hall, do not let you leave Madrid as soon as possible.
Walking looked around the room, the doctor met with a client, sitting on a couch coughed pressing her temples with his hands.
Lowering his voice, said the young man's ear: - The poor will heal in another field other than that you are visiting ...
II Andrés Heredia in child lost his father, a Supreme Court judge, who had the weakness of marriage, and old, with a niece of eighteen years.
His late marriage and some losses of fortune, that the slump in public funds had experienced gave him in the grave.
The unfortunate result of this union was a sickly child and often, who grew up laboriously by dint of pampering and care.
On the death of his father inherited real income 40,000 which, together with the widow of his mother, I agreed to live with being in court.
The young widow did not remarry, but no lack of good joints for it.
Encrypted the yearnings and hopes all of his life in that child, who needed his maternal request not to blow die of the many ailments he suffered in childhood: she was a joy to intense and continuous irlas conquering and see more and more safe and robust.
The boy, at the same time, he discovered a sensitive natural and clear: adored his mother and proud with victories in the school: every month diploma of honor, on all outstanding or significant tests advantage.
Later, when he reached sixteen years, brought him a newspaper which appeared some verses signed by him.
Flattered in his vanity of mother, the poor wife began to mourn.
Since then, Andrew's career was set: he was a poet.
There was no Little Newspaper Literary Magazine of provinces was not compromised to add some of his tearful compositions or floral poetry contest or game where it won a silver inkstand, a book glossy, and perhaps another to the same natural flower poetasters reserved most illustrious.
With a stone cross, a rebujos couple of riders in separate layers, a well-appointed dressing room, a lady of rare beauty a castle with pointed windows and a full moon night, our youth had enough to assemble a crib six thousand devils very interesting, able to put goosebumps to anyone.
When he had quite a number of compositions, published (on request of some friends) a volume, and then another, then another.
Flow cost him, but it was well spent, because the newspapers where he had friends began to call him "the inspired poet, our D.
particular friend Andrés Heredia. "Unfortunately, his mother died before seeing the pinnacle of glory died quickly from a pulmonary consumption.
Andrew, who only twenty years at the time, had the curator of his property to a brother of the deceased, but did not want to live with him, and moved with some of his belongings to the inn.
Here begins for the young Heredia one was very different from the rest of his former life.
Passed Suddenly the warm atmosphere of his home in the cool of the street, the sweet life and quieter than the loving care of his mother made him look, the disheveled and nomadic of the inns.
Its nature has changed considerably since the sixteen years.
The rigorous method, the orderly conduct, had managed to give a relative strength, so that, when he moved to the inn, was strong enough to enjoy life.
Moreover, the curator was wrong very very much for support with relief.
Of all these advantages began using long our young, appearing in the world with the verve and the arrogance of a few years.
He trod the theater often, and cafes and lounges, and even less holy places, friendships and debts contracted; despeñose in affairs that are not love.
All smiled at first.
But not much happened time without nature give the cry of alarm.
Was again raised by the former condition stomach, harsher than ever, the lack of method in the food and the disdain of appropriate remedies.
And the constant suffering that poisoned all the pleasures, began significantly affect its character: it became a hypochondriac, pessimistic, irritable.
Came a moment that was forced to withdraw from social commerce, not to have every moment a brawl.
It was susceptible, suspicious, a word puzzled him, a look wounded him, not eight days passed without the rims with a friend for any trifle.
One of them, a doctor, after some violent scene, he said he would not discuss more until it stand in cure.
This made him come to himself, he realized he was actually ill, fled with particular care any occasion of dispute, and began to jaroparse remedies are usually given against bile.
He was not wrong with them: his stomach sang, ate with more appetite, and after he could return to ordinary life, but resentful and broken.
At this time peace was given temporarily to the muses, and declined to write prose, not vile, but poetic and curly like no other.
Entered the magazine in a newspaper, on the occasion of soirees, banquets, plays, bullfights and all sorts of public holidays and private, began to drop the pen one million frasecillas pretty clever and neat, that there was nothing but praise from the ladies.
And as a natural consequence of the vogue Articles, also reached unprecedented him favor in the halls.
But it was not for the love lawful, liked to bite into the forbidden apple, and it is known that soon gave many and heavy snacks.
Certainly one of them cost him an affair of honor, which came slightly wounded, but that earned him prestige among females.
Lately, he had the bad chance to bind to a woman not young, nor beautiful, nor rich, but so clever and expert, so infernal attractive in a short time managed to tie his hands and feet, have you exhausted and submissive at his feet like a slave.
She was the wife of a senior employee who is his wife's adventures did not seem to cold or heat.
Andrew ceased to run into this woman's life left merry and boisterous, and even treatment of his close friends, did not think since then more than to serve and celebrate their idol.
And in this way has been more than two years, losing love those fools their physical and intellectual, because he had left the study, and even the pen and it did not help to draw more than some bland compositions in honor of his lady.
Upon reaching the older entered the free disposal of their property, he found not a little diminished, thanks to good air your uncle knew them while handling.
On this occasion there Strong arguments and despondency among them, and even threats of litigation, he finally settled the matter by informal intervention of some friends, not without losing Andrew in the transaction much of their wealth.
These troubles and all others are compensated for sweets its embarrassing moments that you love posing.
But at last, were also losing a lot of in its appeal: the employee's wife was determined to abuse their power and demand higher sacrifices, while love is going to spend on the chest of young evaporated.
This there was tension between them, some more than a few quarrels and uneasiness.
Andrew concluded by wishing a break, but was carried away from the usual, without the strength to make a decision violent, as is always stale relationships.
Presented itself after it was inevitable.
His health, always drawn and trembling, resented alarmingly.
They were not only unique thinness, fatigue and loss of appetite, the phenomena which warned in his body.
In recent times began to feel acute stomach pain at certain times of day, which left him very depressed and sad.
When I attacked on the street, clutching tightly the painful with the fist of the stick, and so he walked with his face pale and distraught, not hear or see anything around happened.
Fortunately, lasted a short time: the bismuth who prescribed the friend who used to got noticeable relief available.
Such a thought filled him with dread.
Never thought of death, but as an artistic he used for his romantic poems, taking it out to shine, too by the way, support of the sincerity of his yearning love, and as a means of achieving a balm for their penalties.
But now, death was presented in a much less sympathetic, pale, emaciated, stinking, their bony hands clutching at the fatal scythe segarle warning to the neck; death was not consonant or gravel, completely naked rhetorical finery.
In his presence felt very different impression which had inspired the poem Love and Death, which few months earlier he had published some literary magazine called The Ecos del Manzanares: felt cold and scared and clinging to life without condition, which had so often cursed in verse.
He spent two days in extraordinary agitation, locked in his room, without seeing your friends or other living rather than the home that served their short parts, unresolved consult with a physician of experience for fear of getting fatal certainty his misfortune.
And little by little, this depression, which very few escape in human identical case, vigorous plant sprouted like resignation, or rather a stoic indifference male and born of the shame of having been afraid.
Just a thought did relent gently: "My mother died of consumption, there going to go hang with her." And shed some tears he refreshes the soul.
After all arranged things in mind, drawing a perfect bill of his will, washed, dressed neatly and left home in search of the doctor's Ibarra, one of the most celebrated doctors of Madrid, determined to know the truth of his state and while he still had life.
Upon leaving, he beat strong heart, his eyes shone, cheeks were colored, dancing feet step up the ladder on a firm and cheerful.
Ibarra is the doctor, the doctor most famous court, a respected scholar in Europe, a demigod of science, he had to promise life.
The sun slipping by the transparent glass sky with sweet repose, and its rays fell on the city as soft and divine blessing.
People ran through the streets in lively movement, bright panes of the windows and balconies, crossed the carriages to ride shaking the floor, and live firing of its wheels and pleasing reflections, a mechanical piano raised its sounds in the middle of the street adjoining the toast of Lucretia, a seller of purple crossed with the basket in hand, leaving behind if the environment scented; escuchábanse the laughter of children playing on the balcony of a mezzanine, there was the pretty blonde head of a young woman from another balcony explored much higher street, preventing the rays of sun screen with pearly hand ...
