Not all flowers are fresh and beautiful, also there are withered and ugly.
Do not blame me, therefore, presumably, if a figure of speech valiéndome call my poor flowers withered ingenuity to the stories that follow.
Not I who should praise them.
The only thing I set out to write such stories is distracted or have fun in almost forced my retirement old age and my infirmities condemn me.
I will not deny me that I had fun writing stories, but I keep it to infer and hence can be sure that he is also fun to read.
The stories, however, aspire not only to entertain.
If you are not amused, criticism can not and should go beyond to the point of calling them annoying, and instead, if anything fun or entertaining, its purpose and aims are met.
They are neither do I want to be but a mere hobby work, when read with, without the slightest offense against God or neighbor, to achieve the unemployed entertainment for several hours.
To find religion read the names of Christ, to know moral, read the Guide sinners and to know philosophy, which is publishing the Father Urraburu in many and very thick volumes.
This is not intended nor librejo deeply touch the hearts of readers.
Even when a poet or a novelist by author events takes more pitiful, it is important that the shame and Despite have dissipated almost completely, so that the matter was in the subject and that plagued the subject, get out of it, and he calmly contemplate and be the object or the first material with which he composes or constructs his work, carving and polishing.
Everyone has their way of doing things.
I do not have to make rules and I argue about this.
I will just say I do not understand that overcome with deep grief begins to sing or write about the pain overwhelms him.
The death of a loved one, the misfortunes of country, the tremendous struggle and the terrible hardships that often afflict the human race All this, when it comes to become subject to it when our literary creations and unless it hurts, because if we hurt, we would not write, but would try to remedy the practical means bad, or you cry, report and ineffably and without literature, if not acertásemos to address it
