To re-embark Ulysses Triton retreating to their domains. - Next time - said to console to leave without the child of his nephew.
And a few months later he reappeared, bigger and bigger, uglier, more tanned, with a smile silent words before exploding in Ulysses, the same as a thundercloud burst in thunder.
Back from a trip to the Black Sea, Mrs Cristina said her son: - Your uncle is dead.
The pious Christian lady lamented the disappearance of his brother, spend their prayers, but he insisted with some cruelty in the story of his sad end.
I could not forgive its fatal intervention in the fate of Ulysses.
Had died as he lived, at sea, victim for his temerity, without confession, as well as a pagan.
His uncle had been released to swim on a sunny morning winter, and had not returned.
The older of the coastline explained to her how the accident: a fainting, a collision with the rocks.
The Dotor was still strong, but the years do not pass without leaving footprint.
Some believed in a fight with a "pot head" or other carnivorous fish which hunt in the Mediterranean waters.
In vain the fishermen took their boats for all incoming and outgoing angularity of the promontory, exploring the dark caves and low funds crystalline transparency.
Ferragut remembered the procession of Aphrodite that the doctor had described so often in the summer nights in the distance watching the headlights.
Perhaps he had encountered the joyous procession of the Nereids, by binding to it forever.
This absurd assumption that Ulysses made mentally, incredulous, sad smile, repeated at the same time just thinking of many people from the Navy.
Down would have found something very interesting and when tired of living in the green depths swam back to his house.
No, the Dotor not dead.
And for many years, women who followed the coast at dusk quickened their pace, crossing to distinguish in the dark waters a tree or a package of seaweed.
They feared that arise from Triton soon, bearded, lewd, dripping, returning from his foray by the mysterious depths of the sea.
IV FREYA The name of Ulises Ferragut began to be famous among the captains of the Spanish ports.
Nautical adventures from the time it came through very little in this popularity.
Most of them had braved greatest dangers, and if he liked, was the instinctive respect Men who feel strong and simple with an intelligence that considered superior.
No other reading than his career, spoke with awe of the many books Ferragut filled the cabin, many of them on matters that seemed mysterious.
Some even made inaccurate statements to complement the prestige of his comrade: - He knows a lot ...
In addition to ocean, is a lawyer.
The consideration of his fortune contributed equally to the appreciation.
It was a major shareholder to the shipping company that provided services.
Calculated with proud peers exaggerated the wealth of his mother, tasándola in millions.
Find friends all vessel flying the Spanish flag at the stern, no matter what its port of origin and the regionalism of his crew.
All he wanted: the Basque captains, sober words, rude and familiarity confianzudo; Asturian and Galician masters, lovesick and wasteful, that belie its character greed and sadness inland, the masters in Andalusia, which seem to lead in its funny language reflects the white light Cádiz and its wines, the captain of Valencia, to talk politics on the bridge, imagining what could be the future Marine Republic; Masters of Catalonia and Mallorca, who know the business as thoroughly as their owners.
Whenever I connected the need to defend their rights, immediately thought Ulysses.
None wrote like him.
The old drivers coming from below, seamen who began his career in the boats Coastal and barely fit their expertise to the handling of books, Ferragut spoke proudly - They say that people are gross sea ...
There you have to Don Luis, who is one of us.
The name of Odysseus made them hesitate.
I thought nickname, and not wanting to incur a lack respect, had finally transformed into Don Luis.
For some, the only defect Ferragut was his good luck.
And all good sailing ocean without rest should be history of these misfortunes to be a full captain.
When his mother died, Odysseus was undecided about the future, not knowing whether to continue his seafaring life or take a brand new one.
His relatives in Barcelona, ??merchants agile understanding for evaluation of a fortune, which amounted to the notary had left and his wife, and adding Labarta and the doctor, just shy of one million pesetas ...
His cousin Joaquin Blanes, owner of a knitwear factory, he repeatedly urged to follow their example.
Should stay on the ground and use their capital in Catalan industry.
Ulysses was in the country, by his mother and being born in the neighboring land of Valencia.
Needed men of wealth and power to intervene in government.
Blanes was regionalist policy with the enthusiasm of a bourgeois who is released into fictional adventures.
Tape did not say a word as to her spouse.
She was the daughter of a sailor and had accepted be the wife of another.
Also, understand marriage according to family tradition: absolute mistress women inside the house, but reliant on foreign affairs Lord's will, the warrior, household head, not allowing thoughts or objections on their actions.
Ulysses was adopted for himself the decision to leave the seafaring life.
Worked by the suggestions of his cousins, he needed only a little dispute with one of the directors shipowner's house to offer his resignation, no one could get him to back the requests and explanations of the other associates.
In the first months of his earthly existence, missed the despairing immobility things.
The world was a disagreeable stiffness and hardness.
He felt something akin to a principle faint to see that everything was still where he left him, without allowing the lower back and forth, the slightest fantasy dynamics.
In the morning, the half-opening his eyes, he felt the sweet sensation of freedom irresponsibly.
Nothing with the fate of the house.
The lives of those who slept on the other floors, above and below it, were not entrusted to their supervision ...
But a few days did he needed something that was one of the greatest satisfactions of his life: the will of power, like remote.
Two maids came embarrassed to air their voices and peals of ringing.
This was all for he who had sent dozens of hard rough men that instilled terror down ports.
No one consulted him now, while at sea all sought his advice and often needed to disrupt your sleep.
The house could exist without his daily visit from the caves to the roof, going to the last tap.
Not was allowed to comment, could not extend an arm gallon, same as when scolded the barefoot and bare-chested grumetería, demanding that the cover is clean as lounge.
I thought of Hercules dressed as a woman, spinning her distaff.
The love of family had made him renounce his life of a mighty man.
Only the treatment of his wife, who surrounded himself with assiduous care, as if to compensate with that of the long separation, he made the situation bearable.
And she was satisfied his conscience by making father "earth", worrying about her son, who began to prepare to join the Institute, reviewing their books, helping in the understanding of texts.
Bored him family gatherings at home and in their relatives, conversations with uncles, cousins ??and nephews on earnings and businesses or on the defects of centralized tyranny.
According to them, all the calamities of heaven and earth came from Madrid.
A friend sang tenor Lohengrin in Catalan.
The enthusiasm was the most excited to roar: "The hymn ...
For them there was only one hymn.
And accompanied with a Canturri softly to the liturgical music of The Harvesters.
Ulises recalled with nostalgia his life transatlantic commander: a life wide, worldwide, incessant and varied horizons, cosmopolitan crowd.
It looked stopped on covered by groups of smart girls who asked new dances in the week.
Out his passage fluttering white skirts, veils that flowed like colored clouds, laughter and trills Spanish speakers in a music that seemed to set in, all the playful noise of a cage Tropic bird.
Former presidents of the Republic - general or doctors who came to rest to Europe - we had on the bridge, with a serious Napoleon, the main facts of his story.
Men business, to go to America, he hoped his great plans: rivers changed from river, rail through the jungle, learned monstrous electric forces cascades of several kilometers wide, the desert cities vomited in a few weeks; all the wonders of a world in puberty, you want to conceive as her young imagination.
It was the demiurge of small floating world, provided he pleases of joy and love.
In the hot afternoons of the Line, was enough to give an order to shake the torpor brutish of things and beings. "Let the music up and serve refreshments.
