The rich, as Ms Eloisa and Mrs Theodora, was commissioned to buy the cup and costly ornaments, which did not have such good fortune, as Ms Rita Ms Filomena and others, supplemented money with the skill of their hands embroidering the alb, stole and altar cloth, which caused admiration.
Fixed the church and took part in the decoration not only these women, but many of the people, their friends.
None had better right to it, but all are believed to both, and this again cause some palabrillas secret resentments and unpleasant.
The pay he returned to the village and sang with weak and trembling voice: - Dominus vobiscum.
All the voices of the podium, tears and waterfalls, he was told accompanied by the roar of the organ: - Et cum spiritu tuooooo. - What is white! - Said a young artisan's companion at his side. - Looks like a picture.
Narciso high-pitched voice, lowering and raising the tone and listened with pleasure, the epistle. - Child, how repicotea the chaplain! - Repeated the craft. - You see, there is the daughter of the hunchback.
Narciso and Osuna girl felt a mutual inclination, but only the spirits heterodox and thugs dared to say aloud.
So would Sarri칩 came about three years, more or less, was the idol of the ladies of Pe침ascosa an elegant carriage, which was opposed to the sloppiness of most of the priests of the town, for his cheerful conversation, for his little jokes and, above all, his hobby to be always among them.
Was far from being beautiful or handsome, was a man of about thirty-five, dry, dark, big feet and juanetudos and ugly teeth, but had managed to pass at once funny place.
Little joke goes, has little joke, a compliment to this, a chufleta to another, without ever to be shortened in the middle of a large circle.
Directed the consciousness of most of them and berate them was permitted outside the confessional, sometimes harshly.
Almost all corrections received their submission, even with pleasure, and if you temporarily revolted, was to demand forgiveness immediately.
With this, Don Narciso was the guest at every party obliged and Gaudeamus Pe침ascosa fashionable society, ate voraciously, and flaunting it, drank the same tenor, and when the desserts arrived, never failed to provide it with some coplita was almost always dirty.
Narcissus, who because of his ministry could not be approved jokes concerning sex relationships to sex, it was believed with the right to drop the most nasty about other miseries of the human body.
Two years after arriving in the village had been a failure.
Down the stairs of a certain house that he frequented a lot, broke his leg.
They said the lady's husband, who owned the house, had helped him to fall, not entirely agree with the time and occasion of their visits, but the moment the good souls of Pe침ascosa rushed to quell this rumor sacrilegious.
And as proof of the indignation with which rejected the case, most leading ladies of the town were established in nurses beside his bed, not leaving a single moment, day and night taking turns every few hours, as if the Blessed hiciesen guard .
Narciso deserved these attentions of the fair sex.
No harder and never dealt fervent zeal for the salvation of the beautiful half of mankind.
