As for payment, the city was proud of her millionaire.
Neither the Bank Spain had the formality and confidence at home.
No employee or tables, all the flat foot, but could order thousands of dollars, as he wanted, he had no to get into her bedroom and pulled mysterious recesses each stack of bills that got fear.
And this lucky rustic, to be rich, no more merit than the whim of fate, it was smart air of petulance that provides money and harassed Rafael, his deputy, a railway tariff reform to spread the orange inside Spain.
Of his wretched past it was only a trace: respect for the House of Brülls.
Was a certain arrogance to the whole city, but could not hide his respect for inspired Dona Bernarda, which was coupled with a deep gratitude for the kindness with which he distinguished to see rich and direct interest in her child.
I never forget the father of Raphael, the greatest man he had met in his life and he seemed to see him still as when stopped at his house as a gardener, on his great steed and with an air of Lord commands what to do in the next election.
He knew the poor condition of the great man had left their business to die, and more than once he had given money to Dona Bernarda, proud that it in your troubles will be given the honor of fetch, but for him the house Brülls, poor or rich, was always the masters house, the birthplace of that dynasty whose authority no could bring down power whatsoever.
If he had money, the other ah!
the others were far away, in Madrid, powerful friends, came when they wanted to the throne were of those who had the upper hand, and whether their presence was whispered that Rafael's mother thought his daughter in-law, Don Matias satisfaction blushed and murmured modestly - I do not know, I think everything is hearsay.
My Remedios is only a town girl and Deputy Madrid want a great lady.
Rafael had long known the counsel of his mother.
The father, sticky despite plans to offer fans, it was nice and showing respect to his family.
The daughter was negligible, with no other beauty than the freshness of young, dark, hiding behind the gentle obtuse intellect more helpful than the father alone was the devotion and the scruples that had been brought.
That morning happened twice with Rafael, followed by an old maid, with all the gravity of an orphan who has to deal with the government of their home and act as the old lady.
He hardly looked at him.
The gentle smile of future servant who greeted him with other times had vanished.
Surely it seen from a distance talking and laughing with Leonora.
Soon his mother would know the game.
That girl seemed to regard him as their own, and his gesture was a bad mood and that of the wife prepares for a scene of jealousy in camera.
As if a hazard Amagase leave of don Matias and his friends and avoiding a new meeting with Remedios, left the market.
Leonora was still there.
The expected in the way of the garden, had to take this morning.
The field seemed to tremble under the first kisses of spring.
Cubríanse young leaves the slender poplars that lined the road in the gardens, warmed by the orange new blood opened their buds, preparing to launch an explosion of white perfume orange blossom, on the slopes tangled hair growing between the first grass flowers.
Rafael sat by the roadside, caressed by the cool grass.
His hands searched along the ridge of purple flowers, whose scent makes you dream tremors love.
Form a bouquet to offer it to Leonora as pass.
He felt encouraged by a boldness he had never known and his hands burning with fever.
Such it was the emotion that gave him his own daring.
He was determined to decide their fate that morning.
A few kisses on the hand, four nice words, some cruel jokes Comrade that is conscious of his superiority ...
Well, do you feel the authority of the sex.
He liked and had to be yours.
Scruples were all that kept them apart and he was responsible for the violent searching first occasion.
I had just come complete and compelling the brutal decision between the continuous fluctuations of weak and irresolute character, he heard voices on the road, and sitting was coming to Leonora followed by the two peasants with the torso bent over the heavy baskets. - Again! - The artist said with a laugh that his throat swelled mild tremors .-- You is my shadow.
In the market, on the road, everywhere I get to meet ...
He took the bunch of violets that offered the young, inhaling with delight. - Thanks, Rafael, are the first to see this year.
It's here my faithful friend, the spring you bring me, but days ago guessed arrival.
Rafael said gravely.
He also felt the blood boiling, punctures of life in all its pores.
And stared with wild eyes that bare throat of tantalizing clarity, enhanced by the red handkerchief robust chest, on which rested her violets smooth softness.
The two orchard to see Rafael exchanged a sly smile, a wink significant and passed in front of the lady with the purpose marked as not to interfere with their presence. - Follow you - said Leonora .-- We will go slowly to home.
They left the two women live step, talking quietly.
Leonora guess smile their faces invisible. - Have you seen these? - Said pointing his umbrella closed .-- Have not you noticed their smiles and winks at him on the road? ...
You are blind and is terrible.
do you hurt me, Let me go you.
He acknowledged that he had come to love him, he thought more worthy of your love others men she had loved.
