There were only two and a half.
The first servant with whom he stumbled on the stairs, he asked he came down his hat and coat.
When he got home, and Ramon was hooked. - Ramon, you're going to take now to Tejada at full speed.
The driver looked at him with surprise. - Is Miss has gotten worse? - I think so - said getting into the car before arriving .-- For ...
in revolt the mill, right? - Miss scare fear, right? - Asked the driver with great penetration.
The horses started to leak, causing the car to dance above the pavement sharply uneven villa.
Gonzalo said not even the movement that shook him rudely viscera, and traffic on the road to stop the population.
Unfortunately, not knowing himself by what, the belief that his wife was cheating, he entered into his soul and that ruled it.
When Tejada had come to walk, for two short months, this conviction did not want enter.
As much as I did to convince the newspaper's accusation was true, his heart mind and refused to give consent.
It was endless Exploring the prosecution persuade the hooded was just vile expression of envy and spite in a hidden enemy, and although they could not help but give her faith.
When the car stopped, did not realize the weather was walking, the same could be one day than a minute.
He left his dream and jumped from the carriage to the ground. - Now turn around by the family - Ramon told - and do not say you have brought me.
No need to scare.
When he arrived, he touched with a trembling hand.
He felt a strange chill in the heart that made him stop.
Entered so with caution, and wanted to see if the key was inside to close, but not found.
The night was not clear or dark, the sky canopy.
Menudísima water rained a very common in the country, which permeates the clothes out as the fat, and even better.
Made no sound falling on the trees and plants in the park, but those, soaked and, when wounded by a gust of wind, leaving many drops away, a real shower, which sounded on roads with mild and transient ringing.
Gonzalo was agreed that he did not bring any weapons.
But shrugged his shoulders with disdain, with a confidence absolutely the case that if he was not going to lack.
Looked around to see if he discovered Duke's horse and did not see it.
What I noticed was the shadow of a man slipping to through the trees.
She ran to her, but vanished instantly.
Figúresele that Pachín was the servant, and he fell into the suspicion that he was the traitor who opened the door the Duke.
After that night they found his sister with him, had spent to find out who it was that kept him safe indoors, accomplishing nothing.
In the less I could suspect was a servant as old as Pachín.
Then thought I could go to warn the traitors, and took over the direction of Home to the race to win the hand.
Rose again from the vine to the room of his father.
This time, the balcony was received anything more.
Toes, but quickly, he went to the cabinet prey by an automatic movement, as if, having found there to the Duke once was it was always necessary.
Great was his surprise to find it deserted and dark.
It was a moment rooted to the ground.
But suddenly moved by an idea, ran to the master bedroom, Ventura where he slept.
Beckoned. - Ventura, Ventura. - Who's there? - His wife screamed in a voice strange, indefinable. - It's me ...
opens, it opens soon. - I'm in bed. - Never mind, opens soon. - Let me get dressed. - No, at once or break open the door. - I, I go there.
Instead of the door, thought he heard that opened the balcony room. - Open, Ventura! - Shouted in fury.
And getting no answer, took a knock at the door with his powerful leg of Cyclops, and latch popped loudly.
The room was in darkness. - Ventura, Ventura! - Screamed.
He took a match with a trembling hand, and cast a crazy look around the room.
His wife was in his shirt tucked in a corner, pale and haggard.
Gonzalo did not stop eyes on her.
He looked everywhere for something, and, perceiving the balcony ajar lunged at him.
Running through the trees he saw something white, the figure of a man in shirt sleeves.
He jumped from the chair into the garden and ran towards him as a arrow.
But the man and came to the iron door, opened it, disappeared.
Gonzalo followed soon after, but take a look around, saw him in the shadows, on horseback, jumping into the race towards Nieva.
Encouraged, however, a crazy hope, running back to the stables, took out her beautiful saddle horse, and putting a brake, jumped on him bareback, and also launched to escape Nieva the road.
He wore no spurs nor whip, but he obeyed his animal bravo voice, or rather, its roar, and took a very violent escape.
The front of him not receiving more than a big black hole where I was going to sink.
The tall poplar trees that fringed the road, beside swift passing as black ghosts. - Up, up, up!
The noble animal flying as drove the spur.
So he ran for half an hour. - It's impossible - he said .-- Your horse is even better than mine, and I had a front two gun shots at least.
But when he was making this reflection, and hesitated to pull the brake on the horse, passed through front of another, who was on one side of the road, saddled riderless.
Turned around to see what it was.
Lit matches, and nothing, found no trace of the Duke .-- "You may hear galloping my horse, and fearing that he reached, has hidden around here "- is said.
He jumped into the meadows, all scrupulously acknowledged he could in light of the matches around and looked behind the bushes, peered into the undergrowth, followed by a long way the bank of a stream that had left.
But he ran out the match box before he could faced its enemy.
He turned desperate, bellowing with rage.
If indeed the Duke of lathes was around hidden, which must have good time past!
He left the room in search of a servant.
Front leads to to mount, and then impossible to follow. - Where do I hide me?
If you re killing me. - It is best to leave the house, Miss ...
The young man followed him through the halls.
They descended the stairs, and out through the kitchen door.
Pachín wanted to take the vicarage, which was not far possession.
When they left the garden, they saw Gonzalo running toward the house.
They only had the time needed to hide behind the Washingtonia near the dining room.
From there they saw him enter the block, and go get the horse to escape.
Ventura believed die of fright. - No, no, I do not want to go home the cure.
You can come back, and the priest can not defend it ...
It is an old man ...
I want to go to Sarria. - But, Miss, to Sarrió at this time and it was raining? - Is not there a coach? - There is a saloon, but lacks the horses ...
You wait a bit, I put the rods, and fasten the pony of Master Paul ...
No answer for that pull. - Hurry, hurry!
At best he could, Pachín did what he said.
Ventura got into the car and left.
Though initially rebelled a little pony, fantastic and on the road, with fondness Sarrió the block from where he was generally went quite well.
The girl ordered raised to take her to Don Rudesindo, with whose lady remained fairly relationship.
Took refuge there, and was until his father, two or three days after the event, took Madrid.
From there to Ocaña, one of which locked her convents, and remember him by Gonzalo.
He spent all day locked in Tejada, in a state of agitation next to dementia.
The only person who dared to enter his room was Don Rosendo.
Although adorned with paraphrases and redundancies journalistic temperament credited writer, learned to speak a language dignified and generous.
Escuchábale pacing the room diagonally, hands in his pockets, his eyes wet and left.
Just head up to say firmly: - Take her with you wherever ...
Nieva came two gentlemen.
One was the Marquis de Soldat, middle-aged man, completely shaved, erysipelas color and yellow teeth, who spoke very high to appear folksy, the other a retired colonel, called Galarza, old, gray, and man of few words and friends.
They came from the Duke to fix a serious issue, which had occurred last night, in the field of honor.
Lathe Duke would not let the lord of the Cuevas without compensation owed him.
Escape on that occasion was not in their customs and character, and was worthy of their social hierarchy.
But at the same time, in the interest of Gonzalo and himself, demanded that all be carried out with the greatest possible secrecy.
Gonzalo let her talk to the Marquis, which was neat to impertinence, without blinking, affecting a peace that he felt. - Okay - said when he finished .-- I accept, of course, the challenge.
I am ready to do As and when you like ...
That act, in truth, rather than chivalry seems inspired fear. - Lord of Caves - angrily interrupted the former colonel - we can not allow that in our presence you allow those findings.
Gonzalo distracted looked at him as if he had not heard, and continued: - Actually, I could and even should reject this challenge because it is not customary for decent men will clap with the rogues, but they bear a title of the kingdom. - Lord of Caves - by mounting Galarza uttered in anger - this is unbearable.
I do not tolerate that you talk that way. - The Duke of lathes is a ganuja, you know - said fixed and staring provocatively eyes.
The truth is that it would have been great temerity to mess with Gonzalo at that moment.
Galarza turned pale, and he said, rising: - Are you at home.
I withdraw. - Do you want to tell you to go out? - Impetuously exclaimed, rising too. - Gentlemen - hoarse voice cried the marquis, - a bit of peace.
Galarza, you have no right irritated.
The kind of offense that we sponsored has made the gentleman (and I am sorry to refer to it), I apologize for overstepping the appreciation of his character.
I think when accepting the duel, and attenuates quite all sense of his words, daughters of the natural irritation that is ...
Gonzalo was by dropping the table before him, the fool conciliator.
Remained still and silent, however, because he wanted to be fiery and face to face with Duke.
The former colonel sat down to entreaties of his companion.
For fear of his temper irritable or revenge, no further word.
Gonzalo said he would appoint two friends to understand them, which would the next day morning at Nieva.
Therefore could become this course people, unless that might make him the honor of being guests that night ...
Friends of Duke thanked: be prepared to leave.
When they were standing Gonzalo said, addressing, of course, but the Marquis. - I wish both of you hold conferences on the occasion of this launch, as the set it was made in snow ...
Because - he added with emphasis, half sarcastic, half tenderly, - for more than you would seem strange in this house there are still people who love me.
The sponsors promised to please him, and withdrew turning over Nieva.
Cecilia from the saw and began to haunt his brother's room, not daring to enter.
East to go in search of Pablito, it stumbled in the hallway, which was half in darkness.
The young man suddenly grabbed her hand, squeezed it hard, and sticking a longing look, said - Do not gowns, Gonzalo.
I will kill you where you are ...
He believed in his words, but returned to tell an agitated voice: - Do it for your innocent daughters. - For my daughters ...
and for you - said affectionately stroking his face with his hand.
And he hastened away, because emotion choked him.
When she found Paul she said quietly: - You I can speak frankly.
You are a man and you know that there are things in life inevitable.
Just left the sponsors of the Duke, and I just fool promising Cecilia do not beat me.
