The men looked at each other and after the fire.
Of course they are.
I know what I said ...
At this point, whether it was heard laughing in the kitchen, or the angry old companion had exhausted all other modes of expressing his contempt and indignation, the fact was that a back door closed loudly.
And, strange to say, it took this incident to alleviate adverse pregnancy heading began to feel, and their natural audacity recovered with the return of the host.
Do not try to tell jokes Christmas banquet.
Suffice it to say that the conversation was characterized by intellectual excitement, the wary respect, the meticulous delicacy rhetorical precision and the same logical and coherent discourse that distinguish these manly meetings and in most civilized places where there is the finest social intercourse.
No one glass broke because you have not, nor needlessly spilled liquor by the ground or on the table, by the scarcity of that article.
It would almost midnight when the party was interrupted. - You must keep quiet - said Fred, raising his hand.
It was the querulous voice of Johnny, from his bedroom immediately. - Oh, Father!
The old man rose hurriedly introduced in the sickroom.
Soon reappeared. - Rheumatism makes him hard - he said - and he needs some friction.
Took from the table the jug of liquor and shook it.
Bullen Federico hojadelata left his cup with a forced laugh.
The old man considered the most animated content and said: - I think there's enough.
And he went back into the little room, taking a flannel shirt and old brandy.
As the door was ajar, distinctly heard the following dialogue: - Tell me, my son, where it hurts most? - It hurts everything.
Ora here and down there now, but is stronger from here to here.
And the silence seemed to indicate a lively friction.
Here, apparently overcame the pain that childlike curiosity, since there was a silent interval during which the old man continued rubbing.
Soon, Johnny continued: - Mother says that everywhere but here, all things are given each other for the day.
But not a target, but a Chinese species, which come down the chimney the night before Christmas, leaving things to children like myself who have been careful to leave his boots there.
that's what I wanted to do believe ...
Tell me no invented this for us tease you and me? ...
The old man opened the door and looked absently.
The men were sitting in good company, with a few pieces of silver on table and a thin chamois bag in her hands. - They are putting together ...
And get by - Juanito answered and returned to their friction. - I'd like to hand and make money - Juanito said reflectively, after a short silence.
For all comfort, the old man repeated what was obviously for him eternal chorus is say that if Johnny would wait until which would give the seam in the mine, would have much money, and would be very rich. - Yes - Juanito said - but can not find it.
Moreover, giving him or me to win, is almost same.
At the end of the day, it is just luck.
But it is very strange as Christmas, is not right?
Be instinctive deference to the concerns of its guests, whether by a vague sense of inconsistency, the response of the old one was so low that it was wedged between the walls Room. - Yes - said Johnny, with interest and some declined .-- I have already talked about him enough, father, no I do, not nearly, as much damage as before.
And he composed to rest, but not before taking a hand off the blanket and grab tightly his father by the sleeve in order to mock him not in their legitimate demands.
The old man waited patiently for several minutes.
The unusual quiet of the house excited his curiosity and detached by hand without rising, cautiously opened the door and peered into the room.
With great surprise, he saw dark and empty.
But at that instant a log that was smoking in the home was broken, and in light of its flare Federico saw Bullen sitting by the muffled tailings. - Hello!
Federico started, stood up and walked toward him, half staggering. - Do the companions where they went? - Said the old man. - Upon return here.
Would have come to take a little walk.
Having been spared the old man could fancy, it's eyes were moist Federico and his face like a tomato.
Made himself a little lazy, and returned to the fireplace.
Yawned, desperezose, buttoned his coat, and he laughed: - The wine is not as abundant as it goes, man.
Do not get up - he went on, when the old made a motion to rid your sleeve Juanito hand .-- Do not fulfilled.
You where you stand there, I'll instantly.
Bullen Federico Abriola, with a wave goodbye to the old and disappeared.
The old man would have continued were it not for the hand that stopped him strongly inert yet, no be easy to discard it.
It was small, weak and skinny, but maybe for being small, weak and emaciated yielded to pressure and further approaching the chair to the bed, leaned over her head, surprising him sleep at this attitude.
The room wavered and vanished before his eyes, reappeared, vanished again, darkened and let him sleep at all.
Meanwhile, Federico Bullen closed the door, and joined his comrades. - Are you ready? - Conrad said. - Ready! - Federico said, - what time is it? - The one - said, - can you?
Are almost fifty miles round trip. - It seems to me - briefly Federico said .-- Is the horse here? - Bill and Jaime have it already in the pine forest. - Well, that saved a moment.
Guided by the dim light of the candle and cushioned running fire, noted that the door the little room was open and went to her toes.
The old cast was snoring in his chair, legs outstretched, head back and hat pulled down over his eyebrows.
Beside him, on a narrow wooden bed, lay wrapped closely as Juanito mummy in the blanket that covered her all but a portion of the front and a little hand livid and stretched that struggled in vain to enter.
Bullen Fred took a step, hesitated and looked over his shoulder the empty room.
Most profound silence reigned.
With sudden resolution leaned over the sleeping boy with both hands spreading his great whiskers.
But at the moment to do so, a mischievous air blast stalking him, turned in a whirlwind the chimney down, reviving the live firing home and clarity, from which he fled Federico and scared.
His companions were already waiting in the pines.
Two of them were fighting to hold in the darkness a strange warp, which in Federico as he approached, was outlining her figure.
Nothing remarkable offering from its blunt snout to its rump raised, and from his arched spine, concealed by the ragged and stiff Machill Mexican Saddle up his thick, straight and bony legs, there was a single line of grace and noble aspect that distinguishes your species.
With the white half-blind eyes, but evil, his lower lip hanging, and his monstrous color, was unable to arouse the slightest aesthetic sense. - Well - said Conrad - careful with the shoes, boys, up!
Eye with no descuidarte foremost in grasping the mane, and looks to grab then the other bracket.
Hastily mounted the rider kicked solipeds battling, they parted with precipitation viewers and flew in a circle shaking horseshoes, earth to tremble animal jumps.
Finally, the spurs and departed sounded Jovita.
Federico, in darkness, shouted - Good going! - When you return do not take the low road, unless the time is pressing.
Do not stop the down the hill!
Nothing like this animal and its ragged coceador rider, and strength is follow me in simple prose.
It was two, barely reached Rattlesnake-Hill, and by the interval had Jovita gala of all his vices, and brought out all his skills.
Twice he raised his snout blunt straight with the reins, and resisting the brake and the spur, ran madly through the fields and crops.
Twice they put hands, and fell back, and twice had to Federico agile use all their wits and good fortune to regain his seat.
And a mile ahead, at the foot of a long hill, was Rattlesnake-Creek.
Federico knew there awaited capital test of your ability, if he wanted to reach the end of their journey.
He clenched his teeth, fitted her knees on the sides of the mare and changed their tactic of defense in a strong offensive.
Jovita excited and angry, began the descent of the hill.
The artificial Federico stop pretending to repression manifests, and lied to cries of fear.
Needless to add that Jovita then began spiraling career.
Nor is it necessary to set here the time spent on the decline, is inscribed in the annals of Bar Samson.
I'll just say that after a while, it seemed to Frederick that mud from splashing -flooded banks of Rattlesnake Creek.
According to the plans of Frederick, the thrust had acquired was beyond the margin and having it on purpose to a great leap, were released in the middle of the rushing stream River.
A few moments of fighting, kicking and swimming, and Frederick breathed loudly, after winning the opposite bank.
The road from Rattlesnake Creek to-Red-Mountain was pretty good.
Either because the en-Rattlesnake Creek had tempered his evil burning, or because the art led Frederick would have demonstrated the superior wickedness of her rider, Jovita and not waste their energy surplus in vain whims, and seemed to have become a serious solemnity.
Once only sews to the hind legs, but it was by force of habit, another Once trembled, but it was a damn old to be brought on the road with a monumental basket on her head.
Pits, mounds of gravel, chunks of fresh emerging planted grass, flew under its infused legs seemed strange force.
He began to wheeze, once or twice she coughed slightly, but decreased their strength or speed of his career.
In the three had spent the Red-Mountain and began the descent towards the plain.
Ten minutes later, the driver of the rapid diligence Pioneer was shot and left behind by a "man on a pinto horse" in the words of the driver.
At half past three Federico rose in his stirrups and cried out.
The torn clouds shone through the stars and in front of him, beyond the plain stood two needles, two flagpoles and a silhouette of black objects staggered.
Jovita rushed, and a moment later entered the race in Tuttleville, and stopped at the Place de la Fonda Nations.
What happened that night Tuttleville is not precisely part of the story.
But not be too verbose I can say that when Jovita had passed into the possession of sleepy groom, who soon shook him sleep with a pair of kicks, Federico left with the innkeeper for a ride by the people who slept silently.
The lights of a few taverns and gambling houses were still bright, but avoid the temptation stopped before several closed shops, and therefore repeatedly calling after screaming, managed to rise from their beds and forcing owners to unlock the doors of their stores and to expose their wares to the importunate visitors.
At some points we could not get rid of some cursing, but most of the times interest or necessity were complacent, and ending the interview more cordial.
It was three when he finished the route, and a small waterproof rubber bag, tied with straps to his back, Frederick returned to the inn.
In vain she repeated the invitation of the Excelsior.
The son of the mountains refused to Beauty boldly, not without a slight mitigation smile and his last gold coin.
Reassembled later, and made his way down the dismal road, and then the plain always grim.
Soon the black line of houses, water and the flagpole were lost in the distance behind him, as if the earth had swallowed.
The air was sharp and cold, the silhouettes of nearby landmarks and perceived, was five and a half when Fred reached the Crossroads Church State on the road.
In order to avoid the steep slope had taken a longer and more roundabout, in which viscous mud Jovita sank up to his ears at every turn.
It was not very good preparation for a serious climb of five miles, but he attacked Jovita his usual, blind and impetuous rage, and half an hour later they reached the wide plain Rattlesnake-Creek leads to: thirty minutes, and reached the goal.
Federico slightly dropped the reins on the mare's neck, excitola whistle, and hummed a song.
Jovita was alarmed suddenly, and sprang to have dismantled an Arab.
Clinging to the reins, was a man who had jumped from the ditch and at the same time stood before him and the way a horse and a rider in the dark. - Loosen your bag, you scoundrel! - Said in a loud command, with the second ghost blasphemy.
Federico felt the mare tremble beneath him as if he were to fall collapsed.
He knew what this meant, and prepared. - Go away, Simon, I know, damn bandit or see me through ...
He left the sentence unfinished.
The mare lifted legs in the air with a terrible jump, shaking the person's bite he had caught and unloaded their deadly malevolence against the obstacle holder.
Blasphemy tore the air, heard a pistol shot, horse and highwayman rolled on the ground and the next moment Jovita was a hundred yards of that dismal place.
But the rider's right arm, shattered by a bullet, hung inert at his side.
Some moments later was compelled to stop and tighten the girth, which badly insured stupidly could achieve what it had achieved the danger or attack.
This operation required several minutes of supreme anguish.
Looking at the sky, he saw the star of the east grew pale, and that the distant summits, lost their ghostly whiteness, and highlighted with dark ink a sky increasingly Argentina.
Making a heroic effort and completely absorbed in one idea, he forgot his pain wound, and mounting again ran-Rattlesnake Creek.
In the last few steps and felt a ringing in his ears.
The rider's arm bled more and more ...
Federico was on the right path.
But the uproar stream some hours before had waded, was flooded, and water invaded neighboring fields, so that stood then as fast and compelling river between him and Rattlesnake-Hill.
For the first time that night, Federico felt a heavy heart.
All ranged in their eyes, and the river, the mountains and the early dawn revolved around breakneck speed.
In that brief interval, by some fantastic mental process, the little room of Bar Samson and the group of father and son slept, came into view.
Suddenly his eyes flew open again, threw his coat, gun, boots and the same chair, strongly tied behind his back the beautiful mess, with bare knees pressed sides Jovita, and lying on the back of the animal's prodded into the current.
A cry rose from the opposite bank, while the head of a man and a horse were displayed for a few moments on the running battle to be washed after out of the river, amidst uprooted trees and viscous mass of mud. * * * * * * * The fire was extinguished at home.
The candle inside the room turns, and the door gave a loud knock.
The old man awoke.
Federico? - Shut up, you animal!
Federico did not remember, apparently, the scene that night, as the old flew in his search and returned with ...
If his forces had been allowed, Federico had blasphemed.
He hesitated, and grasping the door handle, called a signal to the old while reassuring the bulk of the back. - There is something here in this mess for Juanito.
Full of confusion, the old mess and colocolo unleashed against poor Federico was fainting. - Open it, then!
Obeyed with trembling fingers.
Contained only a few poor toys, fairly cheap and crude, but shiny paint and tinsel.
Needless to say, all traces are printed on the odyssey that had followed.
Indeed, one of them was broken, another irreparably damaged by water, and the latter a bloodstain spreading his fateful boundary. - Do not look like much, really - "stammered Federico .-- But sadly the best we have done.
And so, stained with mud and blood, almost naked, shocked, rags, one arm hanging lifeless at his side, arrived at Bar San Nicolas Sanson, and fell fainting on the threshold a miserable home.
The sun stretched across the sky and its golden rays; elevose sweetly, and with ineffable love pink ink painted the distant peaks
