Downtown Spanish force occupied the road with your back to Bailen, not far away; to the right of the road from us stood a few small hills in the distance rose slowly to be confused with the first foothills of the Sierra, on the left also there was a hill, but it fell later in the riverbank Guadiela, almost dry in summer and that flowed into the Guadalquivir, near Espelúy.
Occupied the center, to either side of way, powerful cannons, supported by a considerable force of infantry to was left with the regiments Coupigny Bujak, Ciudad Real, Trujillo, Cuenca, Sappers and chivalry of Spain, on the right were, in addition to cavalry Farnese thirds of Texas, the Swiss, the Walloons, the regiment of Orders, Jaén, Ireland and volunteers from Utrera.
The French occupied the road for the direction of Andújar and had their main support in a thick olive grove in front of our right, therefore, served as a shelter to its left wing.
Also occupying the hills on the opposite side with large infantry and a regiment of armed horsemen, and behind the stream had Herrumblar, too dry in summer, that had happened.
Such was the situation of the two armies, when the first light allowed us to see our faces.
I think both of us are very ugly respectively. - What do you think of this adventure, Mr.
I know it's not anything can happen, because I'm the scapular of Our Lady of Araceli I got my little sisters, thus this is that I can put in front of a cannon.
Luis with some sadness -.
You know I was in Hollabrunn at Austerlitz and Jena. - Well then ... - Because she witnessed terrible acts of war, I have fear. - Fear!
Then out of the row.
Here we do not want people fearful. - No gallant soldier - said Santorcaz - do not be afraid to start the battle, as well as know what it is.
Hearing this, almost all rookies who laughed a laugh just before lying down, waving with bravado and dicharachos, according to the warlike excitement that we had, silent, staring each other, to ensure everyone that it was he alone who was afraid. - Do you know what my dear mother ordered me to do to start the battle? - Said Rumble -.
The time has come. "Hail, Mary ..." The morgado continued whispering the Hail Mary that began in a loud voice, and all of our row followed suit, as if that squad instead was a religious choir prayer, and the strangest thing was that Santorcaz, turning pale, eyes closed, and removing hat with humble gesture, he also said "Holy Mary ..."
