He stopped and made Zadig a deep bow, to which corresponded the hermit so gentle and so noble that Zadig to her curiosity came to reason with him.
That same please I beg you, swear to me by Orosmades, that whatever it is what you see me do, you have to separate you from me few days.
Dared not say anything, but I was confused and perplexed.
Had he been virtuous and lived Jesrad said, was his fate to be killed with the woman with whom he had married, and the son of this marriage was to be born.
The bad, said Jesrad, always unhappy, and serve to try a small number of just planted on the face of the earth, with no evil where not be an asset.
But he said Zadig, "if you only had assets without mixture of evil?
Land then replied Jesrad was other land, the chain of events another order of knowledge; and this order, which would be perfect, just at the mansion of the Supreme Being, where there can be none evil can exist.
Millions of worlds has raised, and no two that may seem one to another, that this immense variety is an attribute of their immense power.
There is on earth two leaves of a tree, or the endless sky fields entirely like two balloons; and quanto see in the tiny atom where you were born of necessity, had to exist in its time and place, according to the immutable order of that all-embracing.
People think that this child has just died accidentally fallen in the river and that the house was burned by accident, but no chance, it's all trial or punishment, remuneration or providence.
Remember that fisherman who had the most unfortunate mortals, and Orosmades sent you to move your luck.
Dexa, weak mortal, to dispute against what you worship.
But he said Zadig ....
As he said though, since he directed the angel its rapid flight to the tenth sphere.
From the top of cycles shouted the angel: Take the road to Babylon.
Zadig beside himself as one who has seen them drop near him lightning, walking heedless.
Came to Babylon the day to hit the riddles and answer the questions of the high magician were assembled in the main courtyard of the palace had all fought in quanta palenque, and had come all the supporters of the fair, minus the green arms.
As he entered Zadig in the city, crowded around him people, without being tired eyes looking at him, his tongue to give blessings, nor his heart to wish that cinese the crown.
The envious that saw him go dodged spiteful, and it took the crowd on wings the assembly site.
The queen, whom he told about his arrival stirred fears hesitated and hope and full of anxiety could not understand why Zadig came unarmed, or as Itobad carrying the weapons.
Alzose so a confused murmur to descry Zadig: all were stunned and filled with joy to see him, but only those knights who had fought was entitled to present at the meeting .-- I also have struggled, he said, but another has usurped my arms, and until I have the honor of accredit, I beg leave to present myself hitting riddles.
Voted, and was so recorded in all minds, even the reputation of probity, which was unanimously accepted.
The first question proposed was the chief magician: qual is the longest and shortest of all things in the world, the shorter and slower, the more divided and more extensive, the most widely wasted and have lost more you cry, without which nothing can be done, that swallows all I mean, and gives life to everything great?
Itobad played to respond, and said he did not understand guessing, and that was enough to have been victorious lance in hand.
They said it was about wealth, other than the earth, and other than light.
Zadig he said it was time.
There is nothing longer, he said, measuring eternity, or shorter, as needed for all our plans: and slower for those who wait, no more fast for one who enjoys it extends infinitely to large, and divided to the infinitely small, neither does appreciate it, and everybody cries loss without him nothing is done, buried in oblivion quanto is unworthy of posterity, and actions makes the glans immortal.
Then asked: What do we receive no grateful we enjoy without knowing how, we to others without knowing where we are, and lose without him out of view?
Each one said to his thing, just Zadig was the life he knew that, and just as easily hit the other enigmas.
Itobad was saying at last that there was something easier, and with the greatest ease he would have given it, if wanted to take the job.
Question About Propusiéronse course of justice, supreme good, the art of reign, and the responses of Zadig is known for the most robust.
Pity is, they said all that sugeto so much talent be so bad rider.
Ladies and Gentlemen, 'said Zadig finally, I have had the honor of winning in the arena, I am which had the weapons.
I challenge you to prove before you all with my gown and my sword against all their gleaming white armor I have removed, it was me who had the honor of winning the brave Otama.
Itobad conceded the match with confidence, not doubting that with his helmet, his armor and bracelets, she would find a champion that was presented with his robe and cap sleep.
Zadig bared his sword after making a courtesy to the Queen, which stirred fears and joy watching him; Itobad desenvaynó away without greeting anyone, and rushed to Zadig as who had nothing to fear.
Ibal to cleave the head of a sword, when the Zadig stopped coup, making the sword of his adversary pegase false, and hiciese pieces.
Hugging Then with his enemy threw her down, and placing the tip of the sword between Shell and the back: DEXA disarm, he said to him, if you want to lose your life.
Itobad stunned, as usual, of the misfortunes that a man as it happened, no resistance was to Zadig, who much to his taste took his magnificent helmet, his superb cuirass, his beautiful bracelets, his lucid purses, and thus armed went to bow to Astarte plants.
Easily Cador proved that the weapons belonged to Zadig, the qual was taken up by unanimous consent king, with great appreciation of Astarte, who, after many misadventures enjoyed the satisfaction of seeing her lover worthy of her husband in sight of the universe.
He went to his house Itobad them to be called His Excellency.
Zadig was king and happy, not forgetting he had taught quanto Jesrad angel, and remembering the grain of sand turned into diamond, and he and the queen adored Providence.
Zadig I leave the world to run through the beautiful capricious Missouf; sent and called the bandit Arboga, whom he gave an honorable post in the army, promising that he would advance until the first military honors if he behaved as a brave soldier, and he would send hanged if to thieving.
Setoc, called the interior of Arabia, came with Almona beautiful, and was appointed superintendent of trade in Babylon.
Cador, placed and appreciated as they deserved their services, was a friend of the king, and this was the only monarch on land that had a friend.
Zadig did not forget the dumb, or the fisherman, whom gave a very beautiful house.
Orcan was condemned to pay a large sum of money, and to restore his wife, but the fisherman, who had made man wise, but that would not money.
The beautiful Semira consoles could not have been persuaded that Zadig had one eye, Azora gorge or to mourn for wanting to cut off their noses.
The king calmed her pain with gifts, but fell dead envious of regret and shame.
Enjoyed the rule of peace, glory and wealth, and this was the most flourishing century world, governed by love and justice.
All blessed Zadig, and Zadig blessed Heaven
