In a magnificent chapel in the same church, is the marvelous painting of the Crucifixion, by Tintoretto: The Battle of Lepanto, for the same.
In this chapel the altar of the Rosary, built immediately after the famous naval battle of Lepanto, is surrounded by tables and wonderful statues, the walls surrounding the altar are elegantly dressed admirable bas-reliefs with Torreti statues, was master of Canova, the three ships the temple are very high.
Playing with the church is the Civil Hospital, fronted marble and cedar.
The church of the Jesuits, on the other side of the Grand Canal, with rich facades of marble statues that support columns Corinthian: The floor of the interior, marble, the roof cool.
Entering the first altar on the left, a picture inimitable the great Titian, representing the martyrdom of St.
The walls of the church, mosaic, and the pulpit carved in Greek marble, so graceful in execution staggering: close to the altar, to the left, a divine represents Tintoretto painting of Paradise: the presbytery has an inlaid marble floor, so masterfully done that it is necessary, indispensable, touch it with bare hands to persuaded that there is a carpet.
And we only read the notes from my wallet, I saw everything, There is much more, is admirable.
In the whole temple is not nothing but marble, jasper precious Titian, Sansovino, the way the church is circular, superb cupola, pictures of Jordan.
This disorder is the place to me, after having described Church Health at one of the previous pages, I reoccupied it, the reason is very simple, browsing the Travel Wallet I found new details: the transfer to This book, written hastily.
With this method, the reader follows the same course, the very route that I followed in Venice: if two sites describe in one place, proving that I visited him twice.
The Church of the Redeemer, located across the channel Giudecca, of Judea, is superb as all, and before I forget, let me refer to a scene slightly moved me to go and visit the church.
It was on June 18 unless I am mistaken: there was a procession in fishing village, San Nicolas.
I, on my arrival gondola at the foot of the Church of the Redeemer, a man asked that approached, as long as the gondolas do play in the shore, I asked, I say, what was the function to be held that day.
The man to whom were addressed to me was a venerable old man, poorly covered with a threadbare suit.
Upon hearing my question bowed his head, and after a silence Religious few minutes, I said with an accent excitedly "Formerly, in time of the republic, when I was a boy, holding a big party: all fishers dressed in their finery, came in procession to this church, there were many animation, very pleased, very happy: today ...
there is nothing, sir, silence and sadness ...
the fatherland There ....» My character, eager to seek these emotions on all sides, my opinion in regard to the Austrians, the respectable old the Venetian I had before me, his accent tender sense, all penetrated my soul, everything I touched.
Since there is nothing more sacred in my eyes the love of God, Family, Fatherland and Freedom, as I saw deeply saddened old man who had spoken, as I assumed that The idea would be painful to die, he, so old, leaving the country in the hands of tyrants, I wanted to comfort him, I wanted comfort to myself, heralding the coming emancipation of Venice heroic and dejected, I spoke with warmth, passion, according to my custom, according to my beliefs, and their enthusiasm never dead, awoke, and his face, folded by the time and suffering was prolonged cheering, and handed me one of his hands trembling I hastened to shake, and together we call support to Venice in Venice, and together we ask God to emancipated, and together they filed the heart, I so excited as him
