But not everything is cakes and fancy bread in this vale of tears, and when I was more confident Dona Feliciana that her husband thought of nothing but win pelucones, received a letter Ica that the reported anonymously, with semi-colons, of how the Lord Messiah had its chichisbeo, and how he spent the cake and eat it with the subject, and that the above was not worth an icicle not reached the bottom of the shoe of Dona Feliciana, although it retained enough jamona palatable and not worthy of the rogue of her husband hiciese squeamish.
He said the chicken of a tale: - Place egg and do not eat wheat, that's not me.
The anonymous bump up in the spirit of the lady, and got to think about infidelity Mr Mesia, and so much buzzed in his soul the gadfly of jealousy, he decided to take flight, the neck to drop you catch him in the perjury and gatuperio.
But the case was to go in the time, to Ica spent many days and ran many dangers, and the holds no could be closed or the mercy of a dependent, resolvióse to sell, commission charged a Spanish called Vilches, who was her friend and her man to be trusted.
At that time the transactions were very speedy, as it is unusual that many formulas, and before forty-eight hours Dona Feliciana saw come through the doors of his house some bags of a thousand.
II Dona Feliciana That night began their accounts and decided that God just daybreak, was deposit their money and goods in the house of a merchant proverbial honesty.
But his jealous ruminations on the one hand, and secondly their calculations rentier, sleep it away, and it had no small fortune.
It was about two o'clock, when cats and thieves, when he felt a slight, cautious sound of footsteps in the backyard.
He listened and was convinced that a door that in his bedroom were not applying what technicality of pharmacy, but of the children Caco, was then called a sucker.
This experiment was open through burning a hole in the wood.
Doña Feliciana promptly jumped out of bed, and a corner of the room took a pole or rod stick to which a pointed end adapted rejoncillo iron.
This was the weapon that used to take the field all landowners.
Doña Feliciana, who lives without giving him rejoncillo stabbed in the neck.
he cried, alborotóse the neighborhood, went the round, and found dying universal surprise the honest Vilches, who sang background and colleagues reported their company.
III All languages ??were Dona Feliciana courage, and in Lima did not talk about something else.
Had there been newspapers, have set chronic loud bass drum on the local.
The fame of his exploit had preceded Ica, where he arrived one morning, armed with spear and spear, and doomed to her husband told her: - A Lima, sir, and your home if you want to do another little person in both I have done in the de Vilches, and leave it as not to serve or radish seeds.
The Mesia trembled like quicksilver, he had saddled the mule and, without hesitation or mister, obeyed precept.
Since then she wore pants in the house, and he was the most faithful of husbands stories that mention the sacred and profane, as I knew it was the fleece in the first trip where you get it madam.
Long story is to have a woman companion of horn and spear.
MAYOR'S ARGUMENTS I It seems that one morning he got Carlos III with mother's mood, and frankly that there was reason embittering fed to the spirit of the monarch.
His Majesty had dreamed that the royal coffers ran the risk of being as God loves the souls, ie clean, because his subjects Americas walked one, if not to provide them slackers. - Carrampempe!
Well, I do not have to spend far as Henry the Sufferer that, attaching be king, and the stiff, arrived day had no solid thing to put under their noses, and pawned his overcoat for the cook could flavor a garlic soup and a piece of boar smoking.
I called Don Jose Antonio.
And Don Jose Antonio de Areche, Council of Indies and gentlemen of the distinguished Order Carlos III, soon to appear before the King, and spoke with him at length about the atrenzos the royal treasury.
And following the conversation between lord and vassal, we fell as rain in these kingdoms of Peru, in 1777 and the title of Inspector-General, a soap opera of fines.
The visitor, soon come to Lima, he became convinced that the land was very rich and the committee and tasty porridge.
Item guessed it, without being a witch, that were tame genius Peruleros and, therefore, likely to bear much saddle his lordship would to throw us in tow.
But as the cord stretched out in the end, came the burst, and burst and all hell broke tremendous.
The visitor was stubborn, did not relent and continued to follow an inch and a guitar pins others.
And there was that of zambomba and slaughter, at gallows, and jicarazo, which ...
Finally the end, rogues taxes remained and, grunting and grumbling, there's pay anyone taking law in their neck, no ambitions put in intimate relationships with the executioner.
While so rusty maravedises us out to his majesty, he couched his lordship from search all employees who were handling public funds and would find such clutter and gatuperio in the consideration of some bills, which he planted in the cooler to worshipful characters responsible of them.
It is well known that listening to the disclaimers which gave him an employee, said Mr boring of Areche: - Do you know, Mr.
The cause between proofs, witnesses, cross-examination, appeals and other forensic batiborrillo of the mob, had traces of fabric to suit for three generations at least.
Our man resolved cut through the shortcut, doomed to the jailer asked him to let him go boldly for a couple of hours, on parole back to prison before the expiration of the fixed term.
The jailer thought that the word of honor is not reserved for committed, as on this garment does not unleash a usurer's purse strings, and said flatly that odd.
But dazzled by the brilliance of some pelucones, you carelessly and carefully put between hands the prisoner, eventually soften and run bars and open bars.
II It was seven in the evening.
Stood the Lord visited in her living room, casting a hand sitting with some friends, and finally have a real set with gold only cases, fails and dwarf king, when he entered his butler and, calling him aside, said: - A gentleman wants to talk at the moment with his lordship. - Any unwelcome!
Well, it has to be something of importance that brings to this subject.
And Don José Antonio went to the study, which was located in the backyard.
In your case there are documents and witnesses atrocities beyond reproach and whose statements are sufficient envelopes to send to the gallows ten neighbors of his caliber.
And it is best to be friends and we stop fighting, which only serve to bring uneasiness, and to raise bad blood fat broth scribes and Pharisees. - Why, if you so confident to be out gracefully, has not made use of its arguments?
And would like to see one to refute. - If the Lord visited me and keep my anger has not the secret, which strictly speaking diréle are my arguments. - Speak clearly and as Christ teaches.
Present myself one of its arguments, and keep nine hundred ninety-nine, which left no time or opportunity is there for it take care of them.
And step between step, the mayor took the road to prison.
As the lord of Areche refer that back cogitabundo to take his seat at the table triplet, which all night long did not play in order, and that for the first time in his life, he committed two resignations, clear evidence of the concern of his mind.
III What demonche!
I'm not cursing, but in the story are facts that bring to a crazy.
And proof that Don Jose Antonio de Areche did not play very clean, they say, the performance of the committee that the King entrusted him with, is that, despite everything, his majesty was forced to dismiss him, calling him to Spain, confiscating the property, and sentenced him to live exiled from the village and court of Madrid.
The day after the interview with the visitor, was released and dismissed the prisoner in the case.
THE GIRL'S CRAVINGS Belief was widespread among our ancestors that pregnant women should indulge even in its most extravagant whims.
Opposing them was equivalent to ruin the work done.
Y Galen's disciples were the major contributors to invigorate this view, if we give credit to many medical theses or dissertations, which printed in Lima in several years, can be found in Volume XXIX Various Papers of the National Library.
His women are curious, and enough that they were forbidden to enter the cloisters Lean On all walks convents.
There was, therefore, in the last century to Lima would not travel from the cell prior to the kitchen or abbess.
As soon as the family's daughter Eva was presented in an interesting, little sisters, friends and even the maids were cast to fix agenda for the month of pilgrimage to the monasteries.
And another lego assumed the duties of guide and Cicero Of course, in many cases the stomach was sticking, that is, roll of cloth, but or guardian or keeper could get to find out.
And in the convents of friars went to the monasteries of nuns, and each returning visit home the girl on the whim bearing flowers, cherries and apricots, scapulars and pills.
And the procession in Lima lasted a month at least.
An archbishop, to stop the abuse and not daring to break away from usual provided that the capricious Lima seek the license, not monastic authority, but of the curia, but as he had to spend on a piece of paper stamped and signed application and return the next day by the decree, started to decrease cravings.
His successor, Mr La Reguera, cut the root of the evil one no answer to the first round neighbor who was with the effort. - What if unfavorably, illustrious sir? - Insisted the candidate. - That I do not understand, my dear, I'm no midwife, but archbishop.
And the good news is that there is a tradition that has aborted Lima not walk cloisters. * * * Among the manuscripts at the Royal Academy of History in Madrid, form the collection of Matalinares, curious file documents relating to America, there is one (notebook 3 º of Volume LXXVII) codex is just an excerpt of a process that Peru gave reason the girl's whim.
Keeper of the Recoleta of Cajamarca was, for the years 1806, Fray Fernando Jesus Arce, who, contrary to the archbishop and disciplinary provision, given to allow the walk around Christian cloister to the ground asked him the delicate ailment.
The authority was civil or did not do their reasons for seeking to heel, and armed process and fat.
Commissioner General's father supported the father Arce, presenting, among other arguments, the following that, in his view, was crucial and decisive: - The conservation of the fetus is natural right and the precept of positive law is closing, and the latter would not be considered charitable exposing a woman to abortion.
Arce's father said to him was a matter of conscience consent to the whim feminine as once refused to grant a license acontecióle that, three days, he presented the girl's fancy carrying the fetus in a jar and blaming him for their misfortune.
He added the father Arce that he had to go another little soul in limbo, he was not with livers for an ugly pregnant woman cravings.
The vicar foreign men was seen in a hurry to give his ruling, and requested the opinion of Matalinares, who was the then prosecutor of the Audiencia of Lima.
Said Matalinares not the risk of the fetus, but corrupt and considerations of convenience or privileges Apostolic for certain persons of distinction, had tolerated the entry of women at close of regular, and the cravings that was grid and concern.
In short, I ended view that it would prevent the father commissary general ordered the guardian of the Recoleta pretext for any visits thereafter consented to skirts, under the penalties designated by the Bull of Benedict XV, promulgated in January 3, 1742.
The vicar, as authorized by relying on opinion, ruled against the keeper, but this is not given by defeat, and appealed to the bishop, who confirmed the decision.
Fray Fernando Arce Jesus was headstrong, and said at first that they disregarded the mandate come until the Pope himself, but his friend, the general curator, got appease saying - Reverend Father, better skill than strength.
For the question above all is self-love it will be safe and not adhering to compliance.
And in the act made formal renunciation of guardianship, and not for another office with owl sending little souls in limbo.
What is unique is that every member was old as sin, ugly as a gossip and quilted witches and hoodlums.
In Spain dábanlas the plañidoras name, but in these kingdoms of Peru are baptized with the pain or crying
