no. "Undo all the calculations that the first ends stacking?
Does it meet all the difficulties to which the opinion is opposed by the opponent?
In support of his opinion "copy of reasons such claims as its adversary?
does not take into account .... - But what eventualities, sir?
The reverie and good sense.
Is present a person of good sense, and is shocked and replies, and sharpens his speech, and strives thousand arguments for the folly understands its absurdity, and this in spite of everything, not convinced, and remains so happy, so happy, reflections of his opponents do dent in his mind unmoved.
What it lacks in that point is common sense.
His natural disposition, or habits, we have made so, and that strives to convince should think that anyone who has been able to pour a blunder as complete, can not understand the power of impeachment. ยง X.
There are certain understandings that seem naturally defective, they have the misfortune see everything under a false view or inaccurate or extravagant.
In this case there is no madness, or monomania, the reason can not say upset, and good sense did not consider the men short of trial.
Are often distinguished by an insufferable talkativeness, effect the speed of perception, and the ease of reasoning baste.
Hardly anything deemed correctly, and if you enter the right track soon be dragged away from it for their own speeches.
It happens often see in their reasoning a fine view they make a real and solid building, the secret is incontestable that have given a fact uncertain, or doubtful, or inaccurate, or entirely false, or have settled principle eternal truth of a proposition for free, or actually taken by a hypothesis, and so have raised a castle that has no other defects to be in the air.
Rash, hasty, not doing If the reflections of all who hear, no guide to his twisted reason, driven by their discourse and talk itching, drawn, so to speak, in the turbid stream of own ideas and words, completely forget the point of departure, not realizing that build everything is purely fantastic, for lack of foundation. ยง XI.
Inability of these men for business.
No worse for business men; unfortunate case that they put their hand; But many times themselves, if their things are left to their own and exclusive address.
The main skills are a good practical understanding maturity trial, good sense, tact, and these qualities are lacking to them.
When it comes to come to reality, we must not focus only on the ideas, but think of the objects; and these men are forgotten almost always of single objects and deal with their ideas.
In the practice is necessary to think, not what things should or could be, but what are, and they tend to stand less on what they are, that they could or should be.
When a man of clear understanding and right view, is trying a case with one that is vitiated by the defects just described, is in the greatest perplexity.
What that is clear, that it is dark, so the first thought out of the question, the second looks to be very disputable.
The judicious raises the question in a way that seems very natural and simple, brooding looks differently, it would seem that two men of which have a sort of intellectual strabismus puzzled and confused the seeing and looks good. ยง XII.
Reflecting on the causes of such aberrations, it is not difficult to see that the origin is in the heart rather than head.
These men tend to be extremely vain; self-esteem misunderstood inspires the desire to be singled out at all, and at last come a habit to get away from what others think and say, that is, to put in contradiction with common sense.
The proof that delivered naturally at its own understanding does not look so erroneously objects, and that the fall in ridiculous aberrations rather be a desire to be singled become a habit, is often distinguished by a spirit of constant opposition.
If the defect was in the head, there would be no reason for that in almost all matters they held when the others did not say yes, and they were by themselves when the others are by no, is worthy of note that sometimes there is a safe way to carry them the truth, and is sustaining the error.
I agree that often they do not realize everything they do, they have no conscience well clear of the inspiration of the vanity that drives them and subdues, but the unfortunate inspiration not cease to exist, or ceases to be remediable if there are those who tell it, mostly if age, social status and flattery, there have been evil to the bitter end.
And no wonder favorable opportunities that arise to warn with some fruit, for those men recklessness, tend to attract upon himself bitter disappointment, if not disgrace, and then dejected by adversity, and taught by painful experience, often have lucid intervals that can exploit a sincere friend to let them hear the advice of a sensible reason.
For the rest, when a cruel reality has not yet come to disabuse them, when their unreason accesses are given without measure to the vanity of their projects, there is often another means to resist them be silent, with folded arms, and shaking his head, suffering with stoical impassive Avenue impetuous their risky propositions, their reasoning incoherent, its outlandish schemes.
And by the way that it always causes impassive occasionally salutary effects: because the desire for play ends when no one can replicate, there is no opposition when no attacks.
That's not unusual to see those men to herself little time to overwhelm with his loquacity who do not answer, and admonished by the eloquence of silence, dispense with their annoying petulance.
They are restless and ardent souls who live for conflict and that in turn needs contradiction: if there is not, stops the struggle, and if they strive to understand, very soon fussing when they notice that far from dealing with an enemy determined to fight, preying in whom has been given as a victim in the interests of unwelcome verbiage. ยง XIII.
Christian humility, that virtue which makes us know the limits of our strength, we reveal our own defects, we are not allowed to exaggerate our merit, or exalted on the other, we do not despise anyone aware that inclines us to take advantage of advice and example of all, even the lower, which makes us look like frivolous unworthy of a serious mind walking in search of applause, the flavor in the smoke of flattery; let us not ever believe we have arrived at the summit of perfection in any sense, not blind us to the point of not seeing how much we have to advance, and the advantage we have others that virtue which is the truth well understood, but the truth for knowledge of who we are, our relationships with God and men, the truth to guide our behavior so that we do not misplace the exaggerations of self-love that virtue, again, is very useful in everything pertaining to the practice, even in purely worldly things.
Yes, Christian humility, instead of some sacrifices, produce great benefits, until on the most distant of devotion.
The elevation of his understanding, security and success of his trial, the force of his penetration, the extent of his foresight, sagacity combination thereof, are not things already proverbial?
If very serious difficulties have been overcome, Who but he has exceeded them?
Contemplate him, his face seems to threaten the lofty sky, his eye requires urgent submission and compliance, on his lips hovers disdain everything around him, in all its features you will see brimming with complacency in himself, the affectation of his gestures and mannerisms I present a man full of himself, which comes with excessive composure, as if afraid to spill.
Take the word, resignaos to shut up. "Replicais?
the same disdain, accompanied by a look that demands attention and requires silence.
