The voice of the young left upset, a little hoarse.
Narciso malignant chuckled and said with ironic emphasis: - Look at how many things known about moral theology Miss!
Melchor, who can jump the teeth - said the young, whose eyes came a flash of anger.
Fr Melchor suddenly stopped laughing.
The cleric, aged thirty-five to forty , tall, with regular features, large dark eyes expressionless, and sad figure descuadernada, boasted, according to public voice, handsome, just as intelligent, evil, illustrated, etc., etc.
Obdulia phrase made a terrible effect, because I imagined that what the denture no one knew better than God and dentist who had Lancia position.
Muttered a few incoherent sentences, but Obdulia continued ignoring him - Theology I just know that priests are required to have prayer and the praise of not praying is more typical of that wicked ministers of the Lord.
He said calmly and naturally became more incisive and deep the scratch. - "Where have you learned so much, miss? - Asked D.
Narciso, puzzled now. - As I learned in catechism explained and masterful sermons Lancia ...
whom they say that you imitate ...
but nothing more than gestures, you know?
Narciso was wounded to the quick of his being, because in fact doing everything possible to look like the master, sacred notable speaker.
He was silent a few moments and available to answer when he came to stop the shooting the entrance of a new Miss called Candida, tall, thin, lean and tight, the family of cod.
Fortuna had D.
Narciso, since the dispute had to lose.
Obdulia had a vivid imagination, and before being given to the mystique enjoyed a reputation for lively and funny among friends.
Ms Eloisa took the opportunity to change the conversation, which had become dangerous.
It came accompanied by D.
This straight and stately gentleman was accustomed from time immemorial to the gathering by night Ms Theodora.
When it came to her friend Ms Eloisa, which happened a or twice a week, accompanied her along with the servant.
Peregrin, after he arrived of bureaucratic tour in Catalonia, also acquired the habit of hanging out all evenings at home of Ms Theodora.
Unable to figure out when and how was in the mind of the old civil government official Tarragona the idea of ??supplanting his brother in the heart of the cool girl, but is ascertained thing was born, and was developed with extraordinary strength in no time.
Began to be taxed a thousand attentions, to recreate the delicious repertoire of her memories of employee to make a show in the presence of a subtle wit, an amazing facility for puns.
Also sought to demonstrate his undisputed intellectual superiority over his brother, leading the opposite of what he said, smiling contemptuously when he spoke, vejándole Finally, a thousand ways.
But should being well convinced of the superiority of D.
Peregrin, a man of world and scholar therefore no longer continue lavishing Don Juan the same signs of affection.
On the contrary, the scorn of his brother only served to manifest it more alive than before.
This embittered the heart of Mr.
It was the strongest motive of resentment among many who had attacked his brother, after height.
Candida was to kiss the hand of P.
Melchor, who was the daughter of confession, and consoled him with respect, submission and the affection with which he began to speak, the failure that had just experienced.
Hardly settled all again, D.
Peregrin, who until then had remained within an ordinary talkativeness, stimulated by the presence of Ms Teodora, wanted to graceful sample of their wonderful skills to enliven any gathering.
Grabbed by the hair the opportunity it gave D.
Narciso, to censor what they were badly paved streets of rocks, to say with his shrill voice and penetrating in a pause: - When I was governor of Tarragona ... - It seemed Tarragona! - Adviser said dully, as he placed the letters.
Those who were nearby heard the cry and laugh.
To the ears of D.
Peregrin was a clatter, paused and looked cowardly Director.
Then he went to decision her story.
The smallest details of such a beautiful dream teníalos present which if they had just made.
Could say how many times it had rained in those fifteen days, what I ate and drank, what color were the pants he spent.
For a time, when he spoke of this time, he would say: - "Making governor in Tarragona me ..." Later replaced the sentence with this: - "When I was governor of Tarragona ..." And when he was governor of Tarragona happened that the local press complained about the abandonment of streets, blaming, like everything else that was wrong, the conservative administration.
Then him responsible for ensuring the government and the party had called the mayor to his office and told him: "My friend ..." Here is a run of observations D.
Peregrin, more the repeated, grew more vigorous, until it became scathing invective.
Mayor I answered this and that (the mayor's response was becoming weaker and insignificant).
Then it without breaking down, less or more, as calmly, as he says nothing, he replied: "Dear Mayor, you have two choices: either the suspension or immediate settlement of the streets. " - The next day, very early, were working two crews of workers on the streets - finished D.
The conclusion and the smile were all it was not going slowly changing in an interesting anecdote.
Or because they already have heard many times or not having the spirit is willing to administrative class confidences, it is certain that very few were attending gatherings.
They talked with each other in pairs or in groups of three and four.
Candida whispering with P.
Gil and Obdulia, D.
Joaquin Marcelina and P.
Narcissus with Ms Filomena.
You can ensure that only people who actually listened the former acting governor of Tarragona were his brother and Ms Teodora, that is, those who knew details of their administrative as well as he.
Because Ms Serafina Barrado, although it was still and attentive eye on the speaker, so vague in offering look, that it was put to see that it was far from what he said.
What this lady listened, imperceptible tremors of pain and rage, was the rumor of the talk Marcelina its chaplain.
A long time ago D.
Joaquin differed significantly to this Miss, his penitent.
These distinctions came to the soul Ms Serafina, who apparently aspired to the monopoly of them.
Given that the chaplain, was the act of being begotten and birth, was in all his workmanship, it seemed that he was entitled to it.
Not a day passed without the good Lord experienced a rebuff by his protege.
Did she take as such that was not, but the priest, knowing the subject and zealous affection he professed should show more care to avoid.
Now you could see very clearly that his asides and whispers were intentional: perhaps they had finally punishing him for indirect defense he had made of P.
Gil, whom D.
Joaquin hated couple of death.
Ms Marciala more open or more angry, just take his eyes off D.
Narciso and Ms Filomena tellers eyes, restless, as they went from time to time flashes of anger.
In centers of the town gossip was said that Ms P.
Although this is not credible, because it is a lady that all life had been expressed very circumspect and religious, there is no doubt that their familiarity with the priest could give lead to distorted interpretations among people prone to think evil of others.
Had married and later, when he was over thirty years, with D.
Began to move away from politics and leave the subscription to the Mutiny, then was eliminated of gathering the most exalted and dangerous subject, then saw him politely alternating with various priests.
Finally, as a mission of Jesuits came to the village, Ms Marciala got one lead to confess.
Since then made a complete and radical change in the life of D.
The fierce Republican subscriber of the Mutiny, was transformed into a brother of St.
Lighted in the processions, made the guard of the Blessed with scapular neck, etc., etc.
And not only practiced all the religious activities of a fervent believer, but he gave in and accompanied by clergy receive them in the back rooms, rather than the wicked who came before, in such a way that his pharmacy came to be after some time the gathering of traditionalists Peñascosa.
Such was the praiseworthy work carried out with remarkable strength and skill by Ms Marciala.
It helped him greatly with their advice on P.
Perhaps for this reason his soul was so attached and grateful to her director, who know not contained, and stimulated was pávulo to bad Peñascosa languages.
It was, as we know, one that contributed to education and the career of P.
Gil; but the drop that occurred in the herd of D.
Narciso arrival of the former, remained loyal to his pastor.
May help you stay in the flight of Obdulia, whom she had, as fame, a jealous rage, and it seems he was right.
Aspired to replace it the eloquent grace of diverting priest, and had almost succeeded.
Unfortunately, stood in the way Ms Filomena, a widow who already know who more modestly and reserve admired his spiritual director and lavished him in silence and shadow thousand attentions sensitive, which concluded by making a dent in his heart.
and they all say he is a man of talent.
Clerics felt annoyed by those accolades.
But there is no reason to deny talent.
The mystery man who had lived to hate both the light sun as that of faith
