In truth, the house uninvited.
Podíasele have called abstinence inn, as was the lack of everything you need to delight and captivate passenger.
Presided, no doubt, a certain sadness artistic construction.
Of excessive dimensions for the ramshackle camp did not produce the slightest idea of ??comfort.
He also a rough condition, he felt it humidity of the forest and the smell of pine.
Nature violated, but not subject at all, sprouting in Lagrimillas softwood windows and doors.
I do not know why there seemed to be installed, should look like to have a perpetual picnic.
Upon my arrival at the hotel, the usual guests of the house out of a deep dining room and struggled to remove the application of snuff in many ways, the flavor detestable just eaten dinner.
Some were immediately placed around the fireplace with the legs on the chairs, and in that position silently resigned themselves to the work daunting a heavy digestion.
In response to my stomach condition, not accepted the invitation to dinner I did the innkeeper but let me lead the classroom.
It was such a wonderful host bearded man type animal.
Staring into the crackling fire, I thought to myself what could be, striving to follow the thread of my memories to the troubled past, when a timid little woman appeared at the door look, and building heavily against the frame, he said weakly. - Husband!
To become the landlord for her, the singular dramatic remember clearly flashed before me in a couple of verses: Two souls with but a single thought and keeping the heart beating ...
It was Ingomar and Partenia, his wife.
Neither more nor less.
In mind at once gave the drama a different development: Ingomar Partenia had brought to the mountain, where he had a hotel for the benefit of Gemany who came there in no small number.
Partenia was pretty tired and played without servants work of any kind.
Had two barbarians, still young, a boy and a girl, was faded, but still retained his strokes beautiful.
I sat talking to Ingomar, who seemed to be at its center.
Contour number anecdotes from Gemany, exhaling all strong aroma of the desert, and above all kept full harmony with the sinister house, talked about how some bears died Ingomar terrible whose fur covering his bed how to hunt deer, whose skin beautifully decorated and embroidered by his wife, dressed it, how many Indians had died and how he himself was a After about to follow the same fate.
Well into and in dense forests, where there was no trace of room, began to sing, modulating a tenor voice of singular sweetness and pattus so soft and tender, that pitirrojos and suckers had stopped to listen to their notes
