Although the common view is taken these natives as lazy and unable to poderles instill a desire to escape poverty and despondency that are, similar to those and believe it is natural for them this neglect, I've never been persuaded to this view.
I will not deny that the mood and food can have some influence on the strength and disposition the body and make it more or less active according to their qualities, and more can influence, my opinion, the education, which are printed in the mind the ideas that shape their operations, but always deny that they are unable to overcome some hindrances, such as many think.
By repeated experiences I have known that the Guarani Indians are not as lazy as the mean, not even noticing they must be lazy.
The town of Candelaria goes to work that of Santa Maria Maggiore four sawyers Indians, not Indians have this job in Santa Maria, to whom it was said of two real wages each day, one for the community of its people and the other for them in that people working from sunrise to sunset very happy for the wages they knew they were winning.
If you have arrived to dismiss two of them, have already learned to saw other Santa Maria, none of the four wanted to be fired, everyone wanted to continue, without flinching from the hard work of the saw, and they caused much feeling when they were fired.
The same happened with those who have worked calafates ships in San Jose, and finally, how these terms are used in work with pleasure and commitment.
All Spanish employees in the villages have one or more Indians who serve them without giving them more wages than food, clothing and some short realillo.
And with only this very specific and efficient servants, without ever excuse what they're told, even trabajosísima execution, and the greatest punishment that can be given to these servants is to dismiss because is something that costs a lot of feeling.
Any Indian who offered a short interest is ready to send whatever they want, provide care themselves, and seeking to be preferred to others; So these are not procedures lazy, because if they were, no interest will move to work.
Everywhere that the Indians occupy Tapes are very good paying wage laborers, as experienced in the city of Buenos Aires and in all of Spanish, who prefer other laborers, so the not being applied here is because they lack the incentive of pay.
They are also noted thieves, and they do all they can steal, but it forces them the need, they crave whatever they see, and more so there is within villages and as they wish and are not buying it, and even if they had they would find who sold it, knowing no other way to buy, steal, if they find time.
Well is that it is not so general this defect, which not conceive infamy, perhaps because this year he was punished for theft, do the next mayor.
I discover this defect in the Indians a willingness to civilize and make time-consuming, because once you covet brilliant, if they provided it can be purchased at the cost of work apply hard, which does not happen if they were looking things with indifference.
To complete this regard I refer to here as the government's particular political and economics of these natural, according to the generality with which it is practiced in these villages to you come more aware of the lights, genius and habit of all.
Each village has a council composed of a mayor, deputy mayor, two mayors, four aldermen, a mayor of brotherhood, a sheriff, a butler and a secretary, those who choose the New Year's Day, according to the provisions in laws, with the exception of Mayor and lieutenant, who have no time.
Elections do them together eight or more days in advance, and each chapter offers an Indian to occupy the job he exercised consultation before the will of the mayor and the administrator, which are major in this machine rolling.
While all chords, lead the list of those who think naming the administrator, which, if you please, tell them do so, and if any of the mentioned have any blemish, or does not like the manager, tells them that they ought not, and to indicate other than perhaps the manager tells them, or privately hinted to the sheriff, and well done.
In addition to the jobs of council members, has designated next year all jobs military, the keepers of the chores and head teachers of all trades and arts, so that in every village passed 80 and even 100 those who hold offices, and if the people is short, all become mandarins, and there are few who rule.
Recent jobs Exclusively playing the sheriff the name, but he always does with the consent of the administrator, particularly those whose occupation is the care of community assets.
Prepared lists and chords all come together on New Year's Day, early morning, and to touch cash being published on the doors of the house of the appointed council, whose act attends all the local people, some by curiosity, others to receive in their jobs, to take possession immediately, without waiting for confirmation from the government.
They deliver rods and sticks to the mayor and other council members re-appointed, and officers corresponding military insignia, thence go to Mass, and then home administrator to be present, which charges them fulfilling their obligation, and if not already extended the agreement of the elections, extends, and signed by the voters, they always say all with one accord and a plurality of votes have been chosen and appointed to the content, refer to governor of the province for approval, and for other jobs that are not town hall simply the approval of the Lieutenant Governor of the department.
Every day of the year, at dawn, and are together all the council members at the door of magistrate, whose runners have a bench or seat in the meantime they feel it is time going to Mass, which is always early.
The mayors have their sticks, batons and policy makers, they rarely release the hands, and finished the first Mass is going to care door of the priest's room, to greet and take you, and from there go to administrator, who warns them what they have to do that day and fired, van together to the house of the mayor, and his door determine the distribution of people, and others corresponds to the mine.
Meanwhile it's time to go to work, which is always late grievances and demands heard there, which are almost always missing work, theft, concubinage and gossip with each other.
If the accuser is lobbyists, or is responsible for care something, they bring to India and Indian prisoner accused, and with little consideration send him flogged, as they see fit.
Well you never can spend their punishment of 50 lashes that this government allows them, reserving the punishment of felonies to understand its causes and judgments, except the capitals, or others who deserve punishment on criminals, who dispatched to Buenos Aires with the summary.
For the executors of prisons and punishment called sergeants, and they never fail to hand the halberd, and the scourge bring it tight to the body to be instantly ready to send him.
Regularly hear cases all lobbyists, together with the mayor and mayors, but in the tasks and work any the council, he is but alderman him beaten with a missing or commits other defect.
From the time of the Jesuits have the custom, and still see punctual, which, in ending of whipping criminals, have to lift the soil, where they seek, and will humbly before him who sent them to punish, and give the thanks Had they been corrected his faults.
If one ignores this requirement will take care of it, test and having it for pride, send it again whip who humbles himself like or unwilling.
Always ensures that prison inmates do not stop, but those processed by capital crimes, or those who drop out frequently and the other the penalty is applied, after the crime is justified, and set free because prisons are unsafe and those who are responsible too careless, and so often they are prisoners without sufficient to punish caregivers.
They let them go out alone to their needs, are to mass, even the murderers, so that will not be those who will not.
Daily feature classic and dress up with dresses that have the people for these functions.
Vístense also military officers with their own, and many others dress and accompanying form, that among these are some expensive clothes, but they ridicule that serves to embellish.
In the town where he attended the Governor or any Lieutenant Governor to attend every room, accompanied by return to church in every ceremony, but being alone have little formality.
Whenever they go together platoon, or rather in a row, before the mayor, who is the deputy mayors, and in turn others, the latter being the least degree.
In church sit in seats; regularly divided into two bands, although some people feel all of chapter in a single seat, and the deputy sheriff with the rank military officers post, but the chiefs, who were to be preferred, have no designated place, or thing The distinction, if not for having a job, take the place that he touched.
The governor of the people they put in the church chair, rug and pillow, and was saved by priests have all privileges that the laws are kept governors Timekeeping day, and attending other people's religious.
Guess is that because, as the Indians are so rude, do not think is slight that they do, or the lieutenant, in the absence of the governor, that usurps honor, in short, and it is practiced.
In the councils of peace gives an acolyte, and the priest gives holy water at the door of the church on more traditional, but the governor all holidays.
The days of King's birthday, those of his real name, and those in which celebrating a happiness of the monarchy or the royal family since the day before tomorrow gets the Cabildo in ceremony, removed from the council houses of the four flags of each town, two with real guns and two with cross of Burgundy, and other military insignia, which are four spades long five or six yards, and very thin, small sunfish on the tips and some small colored feathers, put in order and distribution in parts of these, four horsemen of the old-fashioned, and some sticks, some in stock form, and others with metal shield or steel cuffs.
From ten o'clock start giving several turns in order, to touch or sound boxes, the square, some on foot and horseback, to assemble several skirmishes and tournaments, until midnight, at which time the festival is announced with pealing bells and a few shots of Camaret, whose signal attend all the people at the door of the church, whose porch is attached the real picture on the side for the gospel in a drawer, interior doors and curtains, and next opposite are the royal arms painted on the wall or canvas.
Together all the music complete, open the drawer and discover the real picture repeating several times: "Viva el Rey, Our Lord, Don Carlos III ", and put a guard with flags, and two effective sentinel before the real picture.
In the afternoon vespers are sung with great solemnity, efforts are required in this is not some religious priests, and then return to the skirmishes in the meantime have some dances or dances of boys, who marvel at the order and rhythm to keep, even if so young that fail to eight years.
The dances they use are ancient or foreign; I have not seen similar dances in Spain, or public amusements of some peoples or those used in the octave of Corpus Christi day.
Now some are introduced modern contradanzas English, Valencian dances and other dances that use the Spanish.
These guys dancers adorn dresses by the way, with wreaths and garlands that are attractive dances, there are some that are made up of 24 dancers, who are several links, and even letters with the name you want.
Between dance and dance play games or snacks, in their language called decline, all of its invention, and some of them seem quite artificial and grace to the principles but who can not complete them properly, the more the end to beatings and whippings, which held with much laughter the bystanders.
As the sun reserves the real picture with the ceremonies and cheers to that view, and at night they put lights and cookers are assembled in the square, and repeated the dance as afternoon.
The next day at sunrise, turns to discover the real picture on the as such, which remains open all day.
At the usual hour, and given the ringing of bells, get together all the people in the church, which is sung Mass and Te Deum with great solemnity, and then continue in the square, horse racing contour in which, divided into four teams, the Indians make many changes or figures the old fashioned way, all at the touch of many boxes and trumpets, and with great clamor and noise of large bells, that have covered the harnesses and halters for horses, whose ornament and grandeur.
For lunch have six or eight tables arranged to treat, which is home of the mayor, and those of some chiefs and councilors, for which there is community of property, for each table, a bull, a little salt and a couple of jars of honey, and they add to the what can yours.
In each house there treat have a long table in the corridors, often a narrow table on two sticks and a small table adorned girl by way of small altar, with support, which put an image or picture of a saint, in this table, Marketing more slender and delicate meats such as poultry, cakes, boiled or baked potatoes, bread, etc.
These tables, with more than a few large pieces of roasts, and other things, they bring them to the square near the school gate, at noon, to take them to the priest's blessing, like Indians whose ceremony attended by all the Spanish that is in the people, particularly if the governor or lieutenant governor, and then the priest blesses the food, health with a touch of boxes and trumpets, and beat the flags and music, sing a letter, they have provided in their language, so thank God that feeds them, and made this retreat with tables for their homes, and get to eat in the corridors, which run these days with all ceremony.
Do not sit on those tables, but those who are invited, to be be his duty, nor feel any india.
Real Ensign accompanied by a little Indian which serves as a page, and takes the baton when he wears the royal standard.
For either peoples have dressed the same, with expensive embroidery and braids, but, as they are the old cut and are not adjusted to their bodies, make them ridiculous.
