With it you seize half of the weights of the Galician, and you say you have done to America.
And as he shouted this, or rather, screamed, had wielded the whip, tapping edge in the stomach of his manager with an insistence that the same could be affectionate than hostile. - So I come to say goodbye - said Desnoyers haughtily -.
Was face torn between a man who had always treated with kindness or appeal discrete to a leak, taking advantage of their turns, when the farmer stood before him. - Do you really want it ...
Look closely at what you say, that love that there is a lot of deception and blindness.
Well, take down, Frenchy the devil, someone has to carry, and you do not loose out as a cow mother ...
Let's see if I stay full of grandchildren.
Reappeared the major producer of men and beasts to make this wish.
And if it considers necessary to explain his attitude, he added: - I do all this because I love you, and I love you because you are serious.
Again the Frenchman was absorbed, not knowing what it was so appreciated the seriousness.
But Mom had died a year before, believing his son enormously rich because every month he sent one hundred fifty pesos, slightly more than three hundred francs, drawn the salary he had in the room.
Joining the Madariaga family served for less interest is attending to his business.
He pulled the city, with the attraction of the charms are not known.
He spoke with contempt of rural women, poorly washed Chinese, now inspired him disgust.
Had left their country rider clothing and exhibited with childish satisfaction that suits you dressed a tailor in the capital.
When Elena wanted to accompany him to Buenos Aires, defended claiming troublesome business. "No, go with your mother." The fate of fields and cattle not inspired concerns.
His fortune, managed by Desnoyers, was in good hands. - This is very serious - say in the dining room before the family together -.
As serious as I ...
Of does not anyone laugh.
And so the French could guess that his father, speaking of serious, alluded to the integrity character.
According to Madariaga spontaneous statement, since the early days he tried to Desnoyers could guess a genius like his own, perhaps more hard and firm but not yelling and eccentricities.
For this he had been treated with extraordinary kindness, feeling a clash between the two would not fix.
Their only disagreements were due to costs set by Madariaga in earlier times.
Since the son directed the stays, the work cost less and people showed greater activity.
And this without shouting, no harsh words, with just his presence and short orders.
The old man was the only thing he faced to keep the capricious system followed suit of the gift.
Indignant thorough and mechanical order, always the same, without some arbitrary quirky, good-natured tyranny.
It is often presented to some of the Desnoyers Mestizo peons to the public posed by the malice in intimate relationship with the landowner. "Patroncito, says the old pattern to give me five dollars." The little chief responded negatively, and soon after had Madariaga, angry gesture, but measuring his words, considering to which his son was as serious as him. - Much love you, son, but here no one commands but me ...
The French paid a shrug, while his father, satisfied with the victory, fled to Buenos Aires.
In one of his trips back with a companion, a young German, who, according to him, knew everything and served to all.
His son worked too.
Karl Hartrott would help in accounting.
And Desnoyers agreed, feeling a few days a nascent estimate the new employee.
Belonging to two enemy nations meant nothing.
Everywhere there are good people and this Karl was a subject worthy of appreciation.
Was kept at a distance from their peers and was inflexible and hard to lower.
All his faculties seemed to focus on service and admiration of those who were above him.
Just unfold the lips Madariaga German shook his head in advance to support their words.
If I said something funny, your Laughter was a shocking sound.
With Desnoyers showed taciturn and applied work regardless of hours.
Just saw him enter the Administration, jumped from his chair straightening with military rigidity.
On their own, spying on staff, betraying their oversights and shortcomings.
This service not enthusiastic about his immediate boss, but thanked him as an expression of interest by the establishment.
The old rancher praised the acquisition as a success, claiming that his son's held alike. - A very helpful waiter, is not it? ...
These gringos of the German work well, they know many things and cost little.
Are people hard to peel.
Desnoyers replied with a shrug.
There were Argentine, and should think about things immediately, without worrying about the past. - Also, have so little pride! - Continued Madariaga ironic tone -.
Any gringo of these, when it is dependent on the capital, sweeping the shop, make dinner, take the accounting sold to the customers, typing, results from four to five languages, and accompanied if necessary, to the friend of love like a great lady ...
You, Frenchy, you're like me ...
very seriously, and you would starve before going through certain things.
The farmer, after a short reflection, he added: - Maybe not as good as they seem.
You have to see how they treat those who are below them.
They might think the simple but was not, and when they smile when receiving a kick, say to himself: "Wait it reaches the mine, and I will refund three." Then he seemed to regret his words. - Anyway, this Karl is a poor boy, an unhappy, just tell me something, open the mouth as if to swallow flies.
He asserts that it is very family, but who knows of these gringos! ...
He had also introduced in their house, but only to give piano lessons to the youngest daughter. "The Romantic" and not placed at dusk at the door watching the setting sun.
Karl, once work in the administration, came to the house of the farmer, sitting next to Ellen, who typed with a persistence worthy of a better fate.
At the last minute, German, accompanied on the piano, sang fragments of Wagner, which made Madariaga to doze in an armchair with a strong cigar Paraguay acceded to his lips.
Elena watched with growing interest while the gringo singer.
It was the gentleman awaited dream of the white queen.
It was almost a servant, a blond pulling immigrant to red, fleshy, somewhat heavy and with bovine eyes that reflected an eternal fear of displeasing to their bosses.
But day by day, was found in him something which changed his first impressions: Karl women's whiteness beyond the face and hands tanned by the sun rising martial of his whiskers, and the ease with which he was riding his horse, his air troubadour to sing with a rather deaf tenor voluptuous romances with words she could not understand.
One night at the dinner, could not restrain himself, and talked with feverish eagerness which has made a great discovery: - Father: Karl is noble.
The rancher made a gesture of indifference.
But during the evening felt the need to unload on someone's inner rage that came gnawing since his last trip to Buenos Aires, and interrupted the singer. - Hey, gringo, what's that in your nobility and other clubs who have told the little girl?
Karl left the piano to stand up and respond.
Under the influence of recent songs, there in his attitude something to remember when Lohengrin to reveal the secret of his life.
His father was a general von Hartrott, one side of the war leaders of 70.
One of his uncles was an intimate adviser King of Prussia.
His older brothers were on the officers of the regiments privileged.
Madariaga interrupted him, tired of so much greatness. "Lies ...
air. "Talk nobility to him gringo! ...
Went very young of Europe plunged into the riots American democracies, and although it seemed somewhat anachronistic nobility and incomprehensible, is imagined that the only genuine and respectable was that of his country.
For the gringos were granted first place for the invention of machinery for ships, for animal breeding price, but all the Counts and Marquises of gringuería seemed fake. - All farces - he repeated -.
Not in your country is noble, and you have all together five pesos.
Tuvierais If not you would come here to eat or you send enviaríais women who are ...
you know what they are as good as me.
Now Karl hung his brow, confused and babbling. "Dad ...
And he felt a deep gratitude to his brother to see that he broke his silence to defend the German. - But I appreciate to this young man! - Madariaga said apologetically -.
Are those of the earth give me rage.
When, after some days, Desnoyers made a trip to Buenos Aires, explained the anger the old.
For several months he had been the protector of a forgotten German-born soprano in America by an Italian operetta company.
She recommended to Karl, a fellow bastard that, after rolling through several countries of America and perform different jobs, lived next door Knight him in class singer.
Madariaga had joyously expended many thousands of dollars.
A youthful enthusiasm accompanied him in this new existence of urban pleasures, until to find a second life that Germany had in his absence and how they laughed at him parasites in his entourage, flew into a rage, saying goodbye for ever, with accompaniment bumps and broken furniture.
Desnoyers guessed this willingness to give hear for the first time admitted his years.
The existence in the countryside, surrounded by family and doing much good to the poor, was the only truth.
And the terrible centaur idyllic expressed with tenderness, with a firm under sixty-five, and insensitive to the temptation.
After his scene with Karl, and increased the salary of it, appealing as always to the generosity to repair their violence.
What I could not forget was about his nobility, gave grounds for new jokes.
That story had brought glory to his memory trees Pedigree players stay.
The German was a pedigree, and this nickname appointed him up.
Sitting, on summer nights under a roof of the house, was delighted patriarchal watching his family around him.
The night was quiet hum was populated by cloqueos insects and frogs.
In the distant ranches came the songs of the peons preparing their dinner.
It was the time of harvest, and great bands of immigrants were housed in stay for the extra work.
Madariaga had known dark days of war and violence.
He remembered the last years the tyranny of Rosas, he witnessed the arrival.
It listed the various revolutions national and provincial in which he had taken part, not to be outdone by its neighbors, and to those designated under the title "people." But all this had disappeared and no repeated.
Were times of peace, work and wealth. - Look, Frenchy - she said, shooing the jets of smoke from his cigar to mosquitoes that tossing around him -.
In Europe probably would have beaten us at this hour, but here all friends.
And he delighted listening to the music of the workers: Italian songs laments to the accompaniment of accordion, guitar playing support to Spanish and Creole voices s wild who sang love and death. - This is the ark of Noah - the rancher said.
He meant the tower of Babel, Desnoyers thought, but the old man was the same. - I believe - he continued - because we live in this part of the world there are no kings and armies are few, and men only think have the best possible thanks to his work.
But I also believe that we live in peace because there are plenty and everyone comes to your part ...
Men are appreciated for their worth and get together without thinking if they come from a land or another.
The waiters are not going to flock to kill other young men who do not know and whose crime is being born in the village across ...
The man is a bad beast everywhere, I admit; but here come, have land to spare to lie, and is good with the goodness of a dog sick.
Where one feels well and is not at risk of being killed by things that do not understand, there is the true ground.
And like an echo of the thoughts of rustic character, Karl, sitting in the lounge at the piano, softly sang a hymn to Beethoven. "Sing the joy of life, sing freedom.
Never lie and betray your neighbor, so even if you offer the highest throne of earth. " Peace! ...
A few days later agreed Desnoyers bitterness of these illusions of the old.
It was war, a domestic war, which erupted in the idyllic setting of the room. "Patroncito, run, that the old pattern has peeled knife and wants to kill the German." And Desnoyers had run away from your desk, when informed by the voices of a pawn.
And with the desire to be free, gave his apologies to Desnoyers.
He had accepted him as son because it was to his taste, modest, honest y. ..
would not say where!
And the French, so as he learned of his early relationship with Karl, he pretended not to understand.
As the German had fled, the farmer finally push left her home.
Spoke to give a beating to the 'romantic' and one to China, not to learn things.
There surprised his daughter holding hands with the gringo in a nearby grove and changing a kiss. - Come by my weight! - Howled -.
And the repeated insistence of "musician!" As if it were the realization of all their scorn.
Desnoyers, firm and sober words, given an outcome of the conflict. "The romantic 'hugging his mother, took refuge on the roof of the house.
The French went in search of Karl, bad parts even the terrible surprise, and gave him a horse to be moved immediately to the nearest railway station.
Left the room, but did not stay single long.
After a few days, "the Romantica left behind him ...
Iseo "of the white hands" went in search of the gentleman Tristan.
Madariaga's desperation was not violent and deafening, as he hoped his son.
Robust and happy old age suddenly disappeared.
As a child, wrinkled and trembling, clung to Desnoyers, wetting neck with her tears. - It has been born!
Wept beside her, and as if to comfort with a public confession, he said repeatedly: - For my sins ...
Began for Desnoyers a period of difficulties and conflicts.
The fugitives sought in one of his visits to the capital, imploring his protection. "The Romantica wept, saying only his brother, "the most gentlemanly man in the world" could save her.
Karl looked like a faithful dog who trusts his master.
These interviews were repeated in all his travels.
Then, upon returning to the room, was the grumpy old man, silent, staring before him, as though he saw something invisible to others, and suddenly saying: "It is a punishment: the penalty for my sins. "The memory of his early relations with Germany, before take him to the room, he was tormented as a regret.
He did not go in search of ranch hospital.
Needed to spend some time in the church, speaking alone with the images, which were there just for him, as it was he who had paid bills acquisition ... "For my fault, through my most grievous fault." But in spite of his repentance, Desnoyers had to work hard to get him a settlement.
When I spoke to regularize the situation of the fugitives, facilitating procedures necessary for marriage, not let him continue. "Do what you want, but do not tell me of them. "It took many months.
One day, the French came up with some mystery. "Elena has a son, and called him in July as to you. " - And you, you big useless - shouted the farmer - and the cow loose your wife live quietly without giving me a grandchild ...
