Always doing it is profitable, and the reward is many times less I thought that he could do and what they lost in many benefits, one is thankful, is still more useful that damage of all those lost.
Infante Montaner found the security at the port, what gift they gave for their livelihoods, just before the Genoese have helped, although he was with the same interest and enjoyment.
Pass the army to Macedonia.
Paragraph field Montaner, Berenguer de Entenza dead, and Fernan Jimenez fled left alone Rocafort absolute lord and master of everything, and so was moving to his taste and whim determinations across the board.
The resolution was taken among all the captains prior to go aside of prisons, was to rush to Cristopol and become strong in him, as they did in Gallipoli and have the two provinces of Thracia and Macedonia neighbors to make their entries.
Seemed at first easy the company, because they believed the Greeks get neglected, and no time to be prevented, and no doubt they thought went well, if the road does not stop four days to avenge their particular grievances and passions with which the Greeks had space and place a lot, not only for defense, but also to offend them, and finishes, whether between Greeks were men of courage and care.
The delay of executions in war is very harmful, and very useful any alacrity, which cut a lot one day, one hour and even less time, large sets and sometimes lost.
Rocafort after he learned that the City was put on defense, it was decided to move to close of Cristopol which is the maritime part of Rhodope mountains, and do not stop, in attacking the place.
The next day all the field passed the strait, not without great distress, because the road was harsh, many backgrounds, and children, women and patients.
The Greeks, but warned the path that led the Catalans, they could not or dared not daring to step impedilles.
Crossing the Rhodope mountain, down to the fields of Macedonia about eight thousand men service among all nations, large enough army to any company, whether the mood was united, and Berenguer's death had not made odious Rocafort, even to his own friends, because since then he vanished and they were offended, and at last fall were found in the middle of the province of Macedonia powerful enemy towns and have not abused the war, but the damage from Thracia its neighboring province, they served as a deterrent, as a precaution in the Cities, and reap the fruits of the season.
Prison of the Infante Don Fernando in Negroponte.
Infante left the Isle of Tarsus with Ramon Montaner and ordered to be handed Montaner the best gallery that was the one who called Spanish.
With these four galleries, a log armed Montaner and a boat was sailing along the coast of Thrace and Macedonia, to the port Almiro
