The name of Dona Bernarda, under terrible representation, falling in the middle of the conversation became serious at all in the circle. - The stranger - Rafael said he wanted to divert the conversation - is that they all agree now the doctor's daughter.
It's been years and years, without anyone saying his name. - These are things here - said the old man .-- The of your age you had not seen, and your parents, who knew the doctor and his daughter, have always been careful not to get Talk to this woman, who, as your mother says is the disgrace of Alcira.
Occasionally he knew something, a story that Cupid caught in newspapers and spread out there, a revelation the silly Dona Pepa, which had the curious glories of his niece abroad; many lies that were invented is not known where or by whom.
But it has come, and suddenly everyone is talking about it, and it is they know or think they know their lives disgorge the news for many years.
And no more was said about the daughter of Dr.
Woman was born a short distance from where he was born, his childhood had been almost together and yet, in the first game of his life, he had felt separated from the chill of the unknown.
Rafael was tempted that evening, walking aimlessly through the streets to look at her shop to the barber Cupido.
The cheerful bohemian Alcira was the only one that entered his home.
But fear stopped backbiting tongue.
For among the trees I saw the balcony of the house and with it a woman unfolding bright clothes, fine colors and skirts that shake to clear the folds of oppression in the suitcases.
It was the Italian maid, red-haired Beppa that he had seen the previous afternoon, accompanying his wife.
He thought the girl looked at him, recognized him through the foliage, despite the distance, and feeling a sudden fear of kid who is caught in full prank again back and walked rapidly towards the city, after experiencing some satisfaction, as if something had advance knowledge of Leonora, only arriving near the blue house.
V The first rains of winter fell with emphasis on the region.
The gray sky, loaded clouds, seemed to touch the treetops.
The red earth of the fields darkened under the continuous downpour, the deep, winding roads between the fences and hedges of orchards, convertíanse in ravines; paralizábase laborious life and poor crop orange, sad and tearful, encogíanse under the deluge, such as protesting in this change jump in the country of the sun.
The red water and gelatinous, like liquid clay, crashed into the pillars bridges, boiling and removed piles of dry leaves.
The inhabitants of the houses the immediate Júcar with anxious eyes followed the river bank and planted in cane and sticks to convince higher level. - Munta ?...-- asked those living in the interior. - Yes, Munt - answered the riverside.
The water rose slowly, threatening the city boldly had taken root in the middle its course.
But despite the danger, residents were not alarmed beyond a curiosity.
Nobody felt fear or leaving their home for the bridges, looking for shelter on land.
It was inevitable from time to time the wrath of the river: up had to thank her, because it was unexpected fun, a nice suspension work.
The same was done in time their parents, their grandparents and great grandparents, and was never the population: some houses while more.
The river was a friend of Alcira: were kept the affection of a married couple, kisses and slaps, it took six or seven centuries of common life.
In addition, for the little people, was there the father San Bernardo, as powerful as God in everything he touched to Alcira, and only able to tame this monster developed its undulating waves red rings.
It rained day and night, and yet the city, for its animation, seemed to party.
The boys, emancipated from school for bad weather, the bridges were throwing branches to assess the current speed, or descending on the streets surrounding the river to post signs, waiting for the water surface, widening, came to them.
People in the coffee ran down the streets away from the big forwards, whose channels spewed jets as broken arms, and after looking at the river, under the shelter of their weak umbrella became too self-satisfied, stopping at every house to give his opinion about the flood.
Was a difference of opinion, discussions and various prophecies burning, waving City one end to another with the warmth and vehemence of the southern blood.
Was disputed, cooled friends, if in half an hour the river had risen four fingers or one, and was shortly to come to blows over whether the flood was more important than the last.
Meanwhile the sky, crying incessantly for its many eyes, the swelling river of roaring anger, with their red tongues licking the entrance to the lower streets, asomábase the gardens of the banks and penetrated by orange groves, after opening holes in the hedges and the walls.
The only concern was whether it would rain while in the mountains of Cuenca.
If down water there, the flood would be serious.
And the curious made efforts at dusk by guessing the color of the water, fearing see blackish, a sure sign that came from the other province.
Lasted about two days the deluge.
Reflejábanse on its black surface, like restless fish fire, riverside house lights and lanterns from prying examining the banks.
On the streets low water, when extended, seeped under the doors.
Women and the boys refugiábanse in barns, and men with bare legs, splashed in the muddy liquid, thereby excluding farm implements, or pulling a donkey receding scared, getting more and more water.
All those people from the suburbs, when viewed in the darkness of the night, the house flooded mocking lost his temper that had boasted during the day.
The fear of what dominated the sought supernatural protection to child anxiety, a strong power to tackle the danger.
It was time to look for, what other times that it might be the miracle.
Had to go to city hall: gentlemen force viso, unbelieving people something to bring forth out the saint to console the poor.
Men arms and legs rolled up, or nudity, no other concession to modesty that belt, that garment that never comes off the skin of the peasant, women skirts at the top, sinking in the mud your toast and lean legs of beasts of burden, all wet from head to feet, with clothes hanging limp and stuck to the meat.
Passed through the streets with noise and violence of a mutinous people, under the continuous drip from the sky and jets from the eaves.
Abríanse doors and windows, new binding delusional voices to shout, and at each intersection, a crowd thickened the black avalanche.
Iban all the council, angry and menacing like something that could deny request, and the crowd could be seen guns, old guns and old guns huge saddle as muskets.
The mayor, with all of the council, was waiting at the doorstep of the city.
The only remedy, salvation, lead to omnipotent saint to the edge the river to tuck you fear your presence, what they were doing centuries their ancestors, thanks to which the city still existed.
Some neighbors who were poorly regarded by people in the field because of their unbelief, smiling.
The mayor, faithful to the Brull dynasty, was puzzled.
He frightened the populace wanted access, as usual, but was not seeing a serious lack Quef.
Fortunately, when the great black mass began to stir indignation by their silence and out of it hostile whistles and screams, came Rafael.
Dona Bernarda had made out the first hint of the popular event.
In those circumstances was wearing when her husband, giving provisions that nothing served.
But River returning to normal and away the danger, the herd popular admired their sacrifices called the father of the poor.
If the miraculous saint had to leave, it was Rafael who grant permission.
The elections of deputies were coming, the flooding could not get more opportunity.
None of carelessness, or give her a scare, but to do something, for people to speak of him as he spoke of his father in such cases.
Between a roar of applause and cheers Brull, the black avalanche headed for the church.
Had to talk to the priest to make the holy and the good priest, good-natured, overweight and so sly, always refused to accede to what he called a traditional masquerade.
He was pleased to recently come out in procession, under an umbrella, rolled up his cassock, losing every step of the shoes in the mud.
In addition, any day, after taking in supplication to San Bernardo, the river had half the city, and in what position, - as he put it - was the religion because of that crowd of vociferous?
Rafael and his acolytes in the council were trying to convince the priest, but this only answered his request by asking if he came Basin water. - I think - said the mayor .-- You see that this increases the danger and becomes accurate output of the saint. - For if there is water - said the pastor - it's best to let it go, and San Bernardo stay at home.
These saints have things to play with great discretion, believe me ...
And if you remember from that stream where the water went over the bridges.
The crowd concerned about the delay, screaming against the priest.
It was a strange sight to see church man protesting in the name of good sense, pretending to fight concerns piled by centuries of fanaticism. - Since you want it, either - he said at last .-- Take out the holy and God have mercy us.
A huge cheer from the crowd, which filled the church square, welcomed the news.
Rain was still falling and the serried ranks of heads covered with skirts, blankets and some other umbrella, passing the red flames of the torches scarlet staining the wet side.
His story portentous, like a romance of Moors and Christians, all imaginations inflamed.
Was a holy land: the second son of the Moorish king of Carlet.
For his talent, his courtesy and beauty, won much success in the court of King of Valencia, who became prime minister, and when his master had to go into negotiations with the King of Aragon, sent to Barcelona to San Bernardo, then called Prince Hamet.
On his journey, arrives one night at the gates of the monastery of Poblet.
The chants of the Cistercians, spreading vagorosos mystics and in the stillness of the night through the arches, stir the soul of the young Saracen, who is attracted to the religion of the enemies by the charm poetry
