The rear wheels had crushed a fragile barrier.
Desnoyers remained in his seat, crouched, stunned, closed his eyes.
The horror will suggested their own destiny.
In the square he saw the town hall that burned, the church was but a shell of stone bristling with tongues of fire.
The houses of wealthier neighbors had their doors and windows broken with an ax.
Entered empty-handed and there were laden with furniture and clothing.
Suddenly had to leave run.
The fire broke out instantly, with violence and rapidity of an explosion.
Followed in the footsteps of a group of men carrying boxes and metal cylinders.
Someone which was designated the front building, penetrating through its broken windows and pads liquid jets, the catastrophe occurred in a primer.
Saw emerge from a burning building two men who looked like two piles of rags, carried dragged by several Germans.
Blue stain on their coats distinguished a pale faces, eyes wide open for martyrdom.
His legs dragged on the ground, hovering between the strips of shredded red pants.
One of them still retained the kepi.
Expelling blood through various parts of their bodies: they were leaving behind the white meandering the dressing waste.
Injured were French, who had stayed behind in the village no strength to continue the retreat.
But this restrained him, "Franco-shooters in disguise, they will receive their punishment." The German bayonets sank into their bodies.
After a head fell on the head of one of them ...
Y the blows were repeated with dull hammering on the capsules bone crunching breaking.
The carts were still there, but to one side of the road.
Saw a group of Officers dressed in gray, with the hull sheathed, equal in all to each other.
He who had led to this site stood rigid, with one hand on the hood, talking to a soldier who was a few steps in front of the group.
Looked at this man and he also looked at him a little blue eyes and drives that pierced his thin face wrinkled.
Should be the general.
The arrogant and penetrating eyes covered him from head to foot.
Don Marcelo had a premonition that his life depended on this test.
A bad idea that crosses his brain, a cruel caprice of his imagination, and was lost.
Then mounted in a car with two of his assistants, and the group disbanded.
The cruel old found endless uncertainty of the times it took for the official return to his side. - His Excellency is very good - he said -.
With the thoughtlessness of his contempt, he explained that he had brought up to believe there that will be shot.
The general wanted to punish the principal residents of Villeblanche and he had considered on its own initiative that the owner of the castle should be one of them. - The military duty, sir ...
After this excuse resumed compliments to His Excellency.
I was going to stay in the property Don Marcelo, and this will spare their lives.
Then again to tremble with anger her cheeks.
His anger made him consider it as a fact unprecedented and monstrous death of four soldiers, as if war should only drop the enemy, remaining intact life of his countrymen.
Came a group of infantry commanded by an officer.
By opening their ranks saw Desnoyers between gray uniforms rudely pushed several compatriots.
Iban with torn clothing.
Some had blood on his face and hands.
The recognition was one by one as the lining next to a wall, twenty yards of the picket the mayor, the priest, ranger, some rich neighbors whose houses had been burned.
To avoid any doubt, the lieutenant continued his explanation. - I wanted to see this yourself.
So better appreciate the kindness of His Excellence.
None of the prisoners spoke.
Had exhausted their voices in protest useless.
The certainty of death suddenly gave almost all of them a noble serenity.
Just a rich peasant, the village famous for their greed, desperate whimpering, repeating: "I do not want to die ...
I do not want to die. " Trembling and with eyes full of tears, Desnoyers hid behind his relentless companion.
All I knew, had all struggled, now repenting of their old quarrels.
The mayor was in the front of the red spot of a great rendering.
On his chest heaved a rag tricolor: the municipal band, which had been made to welcome the invaders and they were ripped.
The priest stood his body small and round, trying to cover a look of resignation on victims, perpetrators, the whole earth and sky.
The black sash, broken by the violence of the soldiers, abdomen was free and floating his cassock.
The silver mane dripping blood, the red drops splashing White collar.
To see progress on the field of implementation unsteadily because of his obesity, a Wild laughter cut the tragic silence.
Groups of unarmed soldiers who had come to witness the torture the old man greeted with laughter. "A cure death !...» Fanaticism vibrated the religious wars in their mockery.
Almost all of them were Catholic or Protestant zealous, but only the priests believed in his country.
Outside Germany, everything was negligible, even religion itself.
The mayor and the priest changed place in line, seeking.
Discussed last time, but in this supreme moment was to be transferred over, wanting kowtowing each other.
They joined hands instinctively, facing the firing squad, coming down their guns in a rigid horizontal row.
I wanted to leave the village as before, in search of peace of the fields.
The launch battalions had overrun all the roads, noisy and automatic like a machine, preceded by the fifes and drums, tossing from time to when to cheer, his cry of joy: "Nach Paris!" The castle was also marred by the invasion.
Desnoyers heard shock that reverberated in his chest.
Upon awakening, he imagined that he had slept only a few minutes
