Playing with the church is a passage, one that I saw in Milan.
The cafes are good, they serve cheap and excellent sorbets.
There are many good rental cars through the streets of Milan going in a carriage with great ease, there are in every street two strips of tile where the wheels slip, so that the movement is very soft, and great speed.
In the Corso is public gardens in imitation of those of Mabille Paris, but not so good.
The Museum of paintings is in a great palace where is the Library and art exhibition where he had when he visited.
It is necessary to applying to the church of Santa Maria de la Gracia housing as is the bizarre architecture, color historical time, and once in church and even without going to Santa Maria is necessary to look at all costs the famous painting Leonardo da Vinci, who represents the dinner with Jesus Christ Apostles, this magnificent table mutilated friars barbarously, and profane art in a restored clumsy, is in a room of the cloister of Santa Mary, who now serves as the headquarters, is painted on the wall, and a sublime inspiration of the famous Vinci.
In Milan and in all populations of Italy, there is a large number of churches, some notable, not including cathedral, an art prodigy.
In the field of communications has to railroads Milan Camerlata and Treviglio: the latter, which is that of Venice, will completely finished soon: there are measures for almost All cities in Italy: the roads are generally magnificent.
The famous La Scala theater, where I heard, our fellow Echebarria in the opera The Prophet, is majestic in the within, without, as none of which I have seen in all my travels, to the greatness of our East Coliseum.
The outside the Scala is poor and in bad taste: it has the appearance of a home, and an entry reduced, as bad taste as the Madrid Theatre by the East side of the palace, whose form is the same.
The scene is very well served at La Scala, leaves nothing to satisfactory, excellent and large orchestra, mid-sized company.
Record will not stop, and I remember that during the representation keep their hats all spectators There standing in the parterre and is on the right and left between the wall and chairs, custom did not seem extremely polite.
There are many good cars Milan public, regular hotels reading rooms, theaters, tours, good cafes and beautiful women.
The Austrians, of whom speak little, because I extol the just remember, patrolling day and night on the town, ring their swords in the first row of seats at La Scala, they belongs, from thinking and talking, etc..
In Milan, were addressed to me at the poetic and heroic unfortunate Venice.
I left Milan to Treviglio iron line, an hour way: there I took a bus that took me three hours to Cucallo, and thence to Venice railway, using nine hours.
The stations of the railway lines that start in Milan, are poor and poorly made: to go up to the coaches needed show your passport on the road calling ten or twelve times within the same cars as far along.
Around Milan are admirable: I have seen three different lines, and all over the countryside flaunts fresh, and enriched with a profuse vegetation.
From Milan to Treviglio not found any people of importance: Cucallo at Venice, are the cities of Brescia, Verona, Vicenza and Padua, all except the last, to the left going to Venice from Milan.
The first is found Brescia, a city of forty thousand inhabitants, situated at the foot and on a mountain: I saw one of step, has very nice appearance, and many elegant towers.
Between Brescia and Verona, we present the very pretty Lake Garda thirty miles of extension, the largest in Italy, from through which steam is excellent trip to Trento, Tyrol and several other points.
Verona, important, is sixty thousand inhabitants, a flourishing agriculture, industry and other branches of setae public wealth, to which the Austrians take about 25 percent, according to instead of watching had entirely through some taxpayers.
Verona and Brescia is located also on a mound, is presented in an amphitheater, has many good churches, among which stands out the cathedral, buildings, rides, a river flowing with elegant bridges good hotels and cafes.
The best street in Verona is the new, according to his purpose the palace of Radetzky, which leads into a courtyard bleak.
On the same street is the palace in 1815 Congress met that conspired against Spanish freedom.
The large square of Verona is very notable because it contains still within its walls a magnificent Colosseum, built by the Romans preserved almost complete, with its amphitheaters: today instead of fighting, running plays during the day.
There is also in Verona, considered monumental arch Roman triumph, that led to the entry of an Emperor: on the street is this arc are still kept tile strips of the track which led to Rome, for which city, in spite of so great a distance, had as from all excellent roads.
I saw too, because it looked interesting, a stone is and only the tomb of Juliet, the passionate Romeo.
The Adige river surrounds most of the city.
There are cash, because Austrians are there, walls, trenches, canyons, fortifications.
Next to the railroad, is the Campo Santo.
There is always in Verona, as the central point between Milan and Venice, 30 to 40.000 Tudescos.
After passing through Verona Vicenza, a city of thirty thousand Population: a bit before arriving, and placed on a elevation, are the remains of castles same inhabited by the famous and Capuleti Montecchi.
Vicenza has, as is indispensable in Italy, many churches, although I did not see the City told to spend more than thirty towers, including stands out very high.
The countryside, from Milan to near Venice, is superb and admirable: the blue sky, serene, beautiful, and the appearance of cities that come their way, lovely.
After following Padua Vicenza, with fifty thousand inhabitants, crecidísimo number of churches, good and many buildings, among excels temples owner of San Antonio de Padua, where are relics of it.
After Padua, you get to the magical Venice, where I went to eight in the evening.
Moments before entering the enchanted city, cross, on the railroad, of course, a superb stone bridge half mile long, composed of 222 eyes work that cost twenty million real: it is called Bridge St.
It crosses through him, and driven by steam, the whole lagoons that surround the city by the side of Padua, as bridge has no more width than necessary, and from cars is not the traveler appears to cross the sea with a rail sliding on its surface.
I, although the work is remarkable, I wish that the did, because with it have been removed from its appearance at Venice floating and poetic as it is isolated from the waters that surrounded on all sides.
To dismount in Venice, I went with the other passengers in the room luggage, in which everyone is liable to discovered, not courtesy, but because they are there the Austrians, more insolent than anywhere else.
Before arriving and in the same railroad, we collected the passports; to get down, asked us our names, made us designate the hotel where we were heading, and the days thought to remain on its premises.
We recorded luggage, and then had the kindness to let us continue to our hotels ....
A gondola I drove from the landing of the road iron, the hotel de la Luna, where I stayed.
It was night, there was moon to arrive at my hotel, cross many streets, many channels ie: movement, light the sky, the memories that rushed to my imagination of ancient power of the Venetian Republic, the infinite I saw marble palaces to the hotel, the number of gondolas were crossed, the sweet words my gondolier changed with another of his office whenever you turned a corner to avoid a collision, the music that I heard the front pass the pride of San Marco Square, this whole set Fantasy hurting mightily, he had heard me with dislike the voice of the gondolier, announcing that we arrived.
Immediately I got a room at the hotel and kept my room, I rushed into the street, and to the two steps, as the hotel of the Moon is playing, I found myself suddenly in the Square San Marcos.
Mark's Square, longer than wide, has no rival Basilica of San Marco, forming the main facade, to the left a building that occupies the entire canvas of the old prosecutors, to the right the palace of the Emperor, the entire hand, and turns to the Piazzetta, and in front of the Basilica another body majestic, behold the four fronts large square.
To the left of the church, stands a tall tower isolated Campanella called.
Arcos prodigious, taste, art, beauty, shapes are back to the three facades of the square.
Mark's Square, and all of Venice, not excepting a one street, is well paved.
A rich Venetian left in his will a demand for this purpose.
The main facade of the Doge's Palace was built by the middle XIV century, under the direction of teacher Buono, although some claim that calendar was the architect.
Either way, it is a magical and wonderful building style Gothic, and one of those miracles of art that abound in Italy.
The boldness of the construction of the Ducal Palace has some truly daring: the huge upper body mass very heavy and bulky, is groundless and based on two series of slight and slender columns.
The material will consist exclusively white and red marble: Spires all columns are masterpieces of art.
So much for the outside: Now we will enter your huge rooms, rich in art and elegance, but before arriving at its main body will have occasion to pause and admire the splendid staircase of the Giants.
Giant's Ladder, built in the fifteenth century, seems a lie bright handcrafted, a work that is not executed in wax at the bottom there are two colossal statues of marble, Neptune and Mars.
The golden ladder properly called such with metal carved his name, with luxury decoration there is no example, with a prodigious artistic taste with coffered ceilings and roofs of wonders, with marble steps and porphyry, with carved statues of teachers, in a word miracles.
The Ducal Palace is composed of many rooms: the Grand Council, where he met 1,500 members, contains all portraits of the Doges who have presided over the Republic: Missing Marino Faliero who was beheaded, instead of the portrait, there a table that has the tragic event.
The roof, dressed in trim, is covered with pictures Paul Veronese magnificent, Titian, Tintoretto, etc..
In the main wall of the room, there is a marvelous picture of Tintoretto, the largest of acquaintances filled the wall represents Paradise, is a model drawing, colorful, thought and execution, is a masterpiece has, over four figures: it is admirable.
In the center of the room are two huge balloons, to the left, going there on a shelf of books several manuscripts Petrarca, Catullus and other famous writers.
The Senate hall, magnificent as everyone in the Ducal Palace; There are two huge dials instead of timers have zodiac signs to mark the hours: pictures from first artists, ceiling moldings, doors of ebony.
The map room contains large and excellent engravings designate all the voyages and discoveries made by the famous Venetian Marco Polo, who was among the first visitors America.
The hall of the Council of the inquisitors of state, which consisted of three members, is filled with canvases of Veronese, proud, as all that fell from his palette: the floor of this room, like all the mosaic is more beautiful inlaid marble.
The Hall of Ambassadors, where the president of the republic, Dux, met with the ministers of foreign courts, is mahogany and cedar doors, brought from the church of Hagia Sophia Constantinople, wonderful stalls, tables.
The hall of the Council of Ten carved paintings beautifully.
