I knew him a happy little corner, a true bit of heaven, where they enjoyed early delight God has in store their servants.
The corner was a Carmelite convent that had just been founded in the suburbs of the town, and which was the largest and staunch protector lieutenant.
Certainly this was a bit bland Don Segis, the chaplain of the Augustinians, but dared not show it, because it suited him be wrong with your partner.
Rare gift dropped in Benigno ears of old.
Perhaps because they calculated that he loved Jesus and two of fifteen that thirty, or because they find them more reluctant and distrustful than girls.
On one occasion the lieutenant was victim of aggression of a young man who had pulled his sister to the convent.
Don Benigno used to drive himself to the house wives of the bridegroom.
When there were difficulties to overcome by the family, behaved with the skill and daring of a consummate seducer.
Organized and carried out the abduction of the virgin with a shrewdness that wanted it for themselves philanderers many mundane.
Took this pretext Alvaro Peña to speak on a press certain priest fan to "hunt doves." Now, as we know the fans of Don Benigno for rearing chicks, the newsletter went directly to him and evil intent.
To be in that ridiculous way, a toilet, having a capable and bilious temperament, like all artists, terribly angry. - Did you read that tabloid Don Rosendo? - Asked for the night at the Morana Don Segis.
It should be noted that since the first press release did not return irreligious Don Benigno otherwise call the Lighthouse Sarrió. - Yes, I read this morning at the home of Graells. - What do you think of that indignity? - What? - Calmly asked the chaplain. - Man, do not you read the outrages they say about me?
Don Segis raised his glass to eye level, looked closely at the golden liquid, it to his lips and drank pause.
After coughing and straining a bit, and cleaned mouth with a bandanna, said gravely: - Phs ...
But it is better to take things in stride.
The lieutenant, who expected to participate Segis gift of his indignation, he received a further blow, and fell, swallowing his anger.
These were demonstrate attention upset by the newsletter, though without either extreme.
We know that this is not consistent with the nature of that warm, patriarchal meeting.
But next Thursday, Alvaro Peña Don Benigno rest left and "got it" with the chaplain of the nuns, it published a sketch in verse, which was very funny words the marriage of the glasses of gin with glasses of white wine.
He touched so angry Don Segis, and take it easy Don Benigno.
But the tranquility of this was apparent, and only to take revenge on Don Segis.
So, soon to complete the reconciliation, putting both with unusual zeal to remove the skin from all and each of those who wrote in 'Don Rosendo scrap of paper ", beginning with this, its illustrious founder, and ending with the owner of the printing press.
They are not hiding the author of chufletas was Alvaro Peña.
But as it had always been a fiend for a Mason, able to drink the blood all the clergy of Sarrió, not repeated, he left early to Sinforoso mainly primed.
