Rosalia was extended further in the field of confidence, not silence the agonies Bringas going to hide the small purchases she had to do ... "Sometimes you do not know what I suffer, I have to lie, I have to invent stories ...».
Tan cavalier Fish and noble was that after her friend to commiserate with all the soul, offered to pay their generous assistance if the unspeakable sordideces Rosalia looked her in any difficult situation ... "Either there is friendship between the two, or lacking, or are openly or not.
with so much worth, as much merit, with a figure as there are few, let's look ...!».
And such a flood of accolades followed, fanned Rosalia more to mitigate the heat vivid that left his skin.
Her beautiful facets nose swelled, swelled to bursting ... "I'll give the drink ...
are the seven "- said suddenly.
With the assurances given by the doctor the next day, got all excited.
Were heard new laughter in the house, and the patient himself, recovering his spirits, gave off sparks impatience and vivacity. "The next week - had said the doctor - we will remove you rag.
For the next week you will not have but slight alterations in vision, and may go out with dark glasses.
Abstaining during the summer of any work in which you get tired of it, for you will fall into his office and ordinary occupations, renouncing forever to play with hair ...
Was that of "hoax, in others time no one took baths and fewer people died "and that" the bathrooms are a pretext for spend money and the ladies look their cuddles ...».
In such cases efforts should be made so that there is the disappointment of not having done if you get worse ...
Francisco was so happy joy overflowed him on the lips, and could not be quiet for a minute. "In As soon as I get well, I will undertake carpentry work.
I'll make you a cupboard for clothes, so good and so famous, that people asked to view the ballot, as history Natural, and stables.
The lessee of the short Balsaín gives me much pine I do want ...
In the basement of this house is a repository of mahogany that are rotting, and His Majesty will allow me to take a little piece ...
The contractor's pantheon of Birth Escorial has offered me all the marble you want.
I'll make a cabinet with marble ...
no, I will make a great sink and a console ...
And I'll Candidita to also make furniture ...
or I paid the contractor for the works of La Granja ...»
