He deplored the death of Don Celso as each and every one of the most had tablanqueses estimated their garments, and wept as a friend, but it hurt, over and above all by age and he had the old and rooted in their intimacy with which it was.
In similar heights, every friend of those that leave, is a foundation stone to start the foundation of life that remains, and Don Pedro Nolasco had not taken seriously until that day, the death of his friend, who by nature and always felt belt "incapable" of dying.
Also hurt in the soul and separation, not farewell, but had no courage to attempt it, and we kept us very well to encourage them to overcome their resistance: on the contrary, I kept them in them painted as very legitimate, and to those who encomendábamos regular in the kitchen with him the charitable work of entertain and encourage you, as we often did the doctor and I with Mari-Pepa and Lituca, not lost sight of him and were unaware the importance of this exceptional crisis, to an age and a temperament like yours.
Precisely this deal had been reached in the Hall, when they opened the locked door earlier by the cure and it came with surplice and stole, asking for the altar boy who had come with him and had to walk through the kitchen.
Facia ran and went to tell the other patient's room, on the edge because of the agony and his eyes fixed on a crucifix placed by the priest for that at the foot of the bed.
The boy came, and with your help, Don Sabas administered extreme unction to the dying.
She cried and sobbed Mari Pepa Lituca while placed over him all the medals and relics that had been at home with leniency meeting for the hour of death, tears silent many who had come from the kitchen with the acolyte, prayed all responding to the prayers of the priest, and at intervals silence could be heard while breathing agonizing death rattle and hectic, and the buzz the time between the thickets and ravines of the mountains.
This act was followed by another impressive it was not least: the recommendation of the soul, read out by Don Sabas clamorous, with subsequent prayers that all we took part.
And this was long, long since reached to be measured by hours, with some short breaks during which they moved or were renewed Many of the crowd, walking on tiptoe and devouring sighs and sobs, and again heard in the rhythmic rattle of the dying, and outside the lowing of the gales.
For the funeral colorful box, about the slow pace in its development, by the very excess of the care with which I followed, the vision of death with all its attendant sorrows dominion over me in such art, that rather than feel and esteem in the region of ideas, I seemed to smell and taste, confused and moral feelings with losses of body and color and shapes and sounds of falling to blows sad picture of my brain and contundían him and wearied me.
The instinct of life excited me from time to time to breathe another environment, to look at another light and renew the spirit in other healthier horizons than those, and walking through the narrow view of the recess funeral terms, just always stop in the face of Lituca, where the more you recorded grooves their tears, put more emphasis on the freshness of his youth.
Again, yes, because I kept the memories and keep in the memory of the passage from death for my home, there was nothing resembling the procedures or details or accessories to that slow, cruel and relentless work of destruction; to that of a man finishing fiber to fiber, in the shadows of a dilapidated mansion and stuffed into a crack in the Cantabrian Mountains, and the dim light of two velucas wax, while the blizzard roared and roared in the dark solitude of the surroundings.
But Lituca, kneeling and praying, like her mother, turned quickly to stare at the crucifix, as the thirsty traveler lips to the spout of a fountain, well chilled and strengthened his spirit in every weakness that caused him incessant battle to the death take a life which was also smiling and youthful like yours.
He kept me from go to the same source as her demand for the same breath, but delved more the roots of life, my weathered nature of the weather in the world, in the body sweet and virginal creature, and so were not the same in both fruit the same moral effort.
Suddenly there was a phenomenon in the agony of the patient.
He opened his eyes, stared at the crucifix and moved his hands towards him.
The indescribable sound of the last breath of my uncle said at once from the church the first tolling of the bells that toll for the dead for him.
Another "miracle" that never wanted to be explained by the informal Facia intervention of some ill-informed Tertullian in the kitchen, in the endless night that there was communication between it and the people, however hard and even dangerous to the storm.
With the sad denouement of the whole day, unsafe levees that had kept the poor servant quietly devouring the bitterness of his grief, collapsed suddenly, and left in torrents of tears and groans.
Seemed to be no, in the human, console her or forces capable to boot from the edge of the bed, where he kissed her hands stiff "of his Mr ', and put God to witness how bad life had paid benefits owed.
And it happened what was to be feared: the sound of this explosion of deep pain senses, it was spreading throughout the house, which eventually also mourn loudly even those who had not thought mourn in any way, and the bonds of discipline and human respect, very relaxed and during the agony of the patriarch, had just broken with this huge and mournful uproar: people invaded the mortuary room in droves sprang from all the sinuses of the mansion, and all wanted to see the dead, and all you could see the out, and all wept and wailed after the most recent horror of seeing him.
I did not know, as, for where I walked, where or how his head.
Fortunately, Neluco Don Sabas and took over the direction of everything and began to clear the room and nearby, put the ladies in my care, and Pito Salces Chisco and their orders in the Hall, and stayed after closed-door alone with the dead ...
And this is where starts the real tangle of rough, single-note color, strange profiles dark spots, which I keep in memory and print the picture of that unforgettable night.
I believe that, with the intention of seeing the giant Castañalera primarily went to the kitchen, which people could not, that begged the "surplus" to retire to their homes because, unfortunately, were not needed there good services, and until I got much of what I wanted, I remember that I found Mari-Pepa and her daughter by convincing the big man that things had stopped at what they had to stop because there was no way for them, and that, as there was no remedy what happened and he was well dined and good company, very convenient Eral to relax and soothe the thoughts, lie in bed that he had prepared and well away from the noise of otherness, that did not cost great job convincing, that was left to drive to a nearby bedroom, he slept, that we made the gathering until he fell into sleep, and slept like a log and will we snore.
my uncle's room, the bed, naked and luxury in the heart, and above it the sharp and yellow body, shrouded in a Franciscan habit, because from the time of the secularization never missed collecting them in the house to trance like that; around the bed, burning torches, to the head, Don Sabas, or Mari Pepa, or Facia, or any tablanqués of the kitchen ...
or I, kneeling and praying, and Pito Salces Chisco the care of the lights Neluco spraying floors, furniture and clothes and rugs with a liquid disinfectant, and the open window a cold air sneaking and subtle, and the buzz Far from the storm and more than a snowflake ...
Lita and her mother in my office, huddled in scarves and shawls, with their feet on the hearth box ...
Mari Pepa tiptoed and peering into the bedroom of his father when he ceased his stentorian snoring, my subject, and mechanically, to advise the ladies and the Priest to lie down and sleep and rest; resistance of all to please me, though poor Lituca cold shiver sometimes and could not lift the eyelids red ...
They had taken them a TENTE foot, and as Don Sabas, how he had to think about it being more than the average night and having to celebrate the dawn? ...
In the kitchen, the fire dying, nodding Tona about her, her mother wailing softly in the dark corner, men with head on the hands and the hands on the lazy, sleeping peacefully, others to fall asleep, sitting on the banks of the fire, smoking his pipe and with dull eyes fixed on brands: around this table within half-light and no other noise than the sob Facia ...
A lump that another dark wandering through passageways, and a smell throughout the house to wick of wax, rosemary and laurel trampled snuff and the worst ...
A little bit of conversation with the Neluco cure and in my room in front of Mari Pepa, who had just arrived from the bedroom his father, and Lita, who slept with her gorgeous head over his chest after refusing to rest in my own bed, which was so close at hand, who knows what the lineage of scruples; of discussion, say, on the day or days and the ceremonial of the funeral and how to these individuals was related ...
Pepazo and other mozallón, entering the mortuary room to relieve Salces Chisco and Pete, the TARUMBA praying to one side and Toper to another, the header, the cold raging there, and the flame of the candles swaying endlessly in their fuses with the icy air was seeping through the open window ...
Long periods of silence and stillness in the house, others of languid conversation in my office on family issues: the late, absent ...
Return to Don Sabas the fourth mortuary, or Neluco back to the kitchen, where, in one of them, pouring to find Tona Pito Salces a traguete as authorized by "the house" for such uses as exceptional set, and from my office, and at the end and dessert, Lita lying on my bed and covered, kneeling down, with my own blanket, and sleeping with sweet and calm pace that sleep an angel if angels feel this need of flesh and bone.
Her mother had vanished scruples once, carrying with it, between earnest and jest, by all reasoning and put it where it was.
It was my status as a feverish nightmares.
Not snowed since, but had more than a yard of snow on the ground of Valley and were the tops of mountains and immersed in a sea of ??blackened and stormy not augur good thing.
Resignóse to remain pious and excellent woman, but not Facia, more seasoned her to cross obstacles such lineage.
The Mass was prayed and brief, and reproduced in it the cries of the house to ask for a prayer for the Cure the soul of a beloved parishioner.
After Mass I wanted to see the cemetery, which is two steps from the church.
Four walls not very high, a cross in the center, a humble tejavana to the right of the door, and the opposite side of half a dozen weeping willows with their trunks demarcating a bit hunchbacked ground, and rubbing the tips of its branches straight and dull the thick carpet of snow to flush the entire surface of the cemetery.
In that piece of land, bounded by willows, from time immemorial are buried the dead from the house of Tablanca.
I rise to take it to people who had accompanied me on the descent and some Moreover, he said goodbye to me the cure "until the afternoon." - It's time - he said - that I take a look at my jacienda, which know no hint twenty-four hours please ...
and I eat breakfast and sleep for a while, if I cellerisca black heart leaves appetite and calm to it, by God's mercy.
Someone had the happy idea of ??sending in the big house to the Canberra EXPAL the stony ground in my honor, and that I had that in climbing up was not what I feared, recalling what had been the downhill.
Marmitón had slept all night in a row, which had come into equilibrium and game pieces and gears of the colossus armor, and in this way worked in it, to grief, with perfect regularity.
I came when her daughter and granddaughter served him breakfast, and I spoke of "the misery of the poor Celso" as if he had then to occur.
Lita asked (and I swear that I asked without a hint of ulterior motive) if he had slept and rested as you like, and instead of answering the question, he was very red and began to unload on all the responsibilities her mother had gone to bed, "Dressed, yes" in the bed where I had seen.
Reíase this mother of all earnest, while securing the shameful I had been my fault, "and proud," and of I took this basis, to demonstrate the projects that he had, not to think of returning home in a few days, not being the time for it, and, above all, need them in I mine for a great charity, and resign themselves to accommodate the two in my cabinet and released by Lituca.
not what to stay home some days, but what to fill the cabinet offered I ...
Until finally gave Mari Pepa, resignóse Lita, and applauded the agreement with the giant an 'that's right! "that echoed half a house.
And this and the chores that brought him to be implemented prior to before, were the only amusements for me at all that sad day.
Evening came, cold, foggy and gloomy; up the neighborhood en masse, rocky top, behind del Cura with black ornaments, preceded by the banner of "Souls" and a crucifix great, echoed in the astragalus, sung by voices well-matched with the sound of Don Sabas, terrible lamentations of Job, the greatest poet funeral that no news in the land; low the coffin between new cries and moans, and walking, walking with him to the people the mournful procession the path he had walked up just before we arrived at camp saint after a brief detention at the door of the church, the faithful and obedient son received from his mother's loving farewell blessing.
And there, among the withered weeping, in a miserable pit just opened on the ground, disappeared the world forever under a layer of earth that would soon cover the snow, a man which had until that day the patriarch, the master, the undisputed and indisputable king throughout the valley.
XXIX Many years ago the mansion of the Ruiz de Bejos not seen another like it.
Facia was clean and was not Tona untidy, but as they cleaned and swept on it ordinary, which was cleaned, fregoteó and buff in those days with their fists or under the direction of my incomparable hostess, had a huge distance.
Everything seemed little to erase the ravages of the recent uproar and bewilderment and "dress" the house the tenor of what he asked for the extraordinary event that is awaited, all disorganized in she ordered again, and everything was like new, particularly the room of my uncle ...
But her mother called it "parleteruca without substance" and took it out there for other occupations of urgency, which I could not tell her what she thought in support your opinion, considering even the guilt that I was the one scrambling, and above all, to put it to the poor face like a poppy with a reprimand, although are released in jest.
If forget Lituca understand but feel deeply, understand very well, because the heart human, earth miserable in the end, needs the assistance of the ways to keep warm of feelings that encourage you, and yet the fire off with time, but by forgetting meant to erase from memory, is greatly mistaken in that case.
Was considerable the void that left my uncle in the big house Celso Tablanca not to be noticed at every moment however much time you spend outside.
For starters, there was talk of something else, and most notably the night in the salons of the kitchen, which was crowded with people despite the cold and the blizzard.
He brought to mind every moment, and nobody, including the giant the Castañalera, touched his chair, which was seen as sacred.
And do not say much for the respect and commitment that they showed me the honest tablanqueses since the death of my uncle, for what I felt to deepen and expand and thicken in my scrupulous conscience the roots of my renewed commitment and set that way so solemn.
Those gatherings were cooking a relentless celebration of the merits of the deceased, at all ages and circumstances of his long life: no one was missing something to remember or refer or comment. "Aqueya oju view I read in the darkness"; "saying the agudu his word ";" the very hand that was everywhere to overcome impossible, for the sake of that neighborhood ", this very generous gesture, he said so in time, the softness of his heart, always open to the misfortunes of others, like her inexhaustible purse, his knowledge of all, his having something for everyone, and live with anything hard as his belt, his attachment to home turf; their heroic man, his achievements as a boy, all the graces of his person, the direction his marriage and his wife's rosy, being very noticeable that in these paintings of things youth of my Uncle Celso, always came hurrying Don Pedro Nolasco or Don Sabas the Cure to confirm, if not to enrich them with new and very curious book, with the authority unimpeachable witnesses.
A day for those few, following the funeral of my uncle, called Facia aside to Tona Chisco and to read testamentary clauses concerning them.
Mandela sit, not wanted, and the tone is more solemn than I could read them.
