In the absence had a system of principles, consisting of deception and energy.
His political creed was a comedy forty years.
Its success debiose to have invigorated the principle of authority, and its discredit or unpopularity to have prevented the progressive development of ideas.
In religion was Voltaire and private habits of temperance enemies, but had a coram vobis in righteousness that was the effect of watching the silhouette of Satan in the shadow of the confessional.
One of the first elements of strength that come near it was the clergy, who flattered provided, no However, little money to buy their goods, when pulled out of the progressive called dead hands.
Except for two or three individuals of unimpeachable purity were people of economies, and in time, with purchases of goods disentailed formed an aristocracy that gradually became respectable, and in which there are many Marquis and formidable element of order.
In the military were unscrupulous and have been seen to rule naturally, and even grace.
In the days of our story had the pleasing appearance of a young army, full of vigor and courage.
Its program of restraint contrary to many people.
One skilled system of being and not being, of balance between absolutism and liberals, using one against others, to promise and not fulfill, to cover up with formulas, rhetorical and dicharachos now discredited, but then much in vogue, the loop of the arbitrariness and the broadsword of force, paid off in time of such political innocence, when freedom was like generous child and not without pampering, the easier to fool than to convince.
The gathering of Genara was the center where the aspirations of those people started list to take shape.
There was precisely the system and becoming practical.
There were established relations were not to break it to death and they met and chose, let's say well, men.
Young taken from the old to know these sly and those the ease and vigor.
Humanly considered, these people had a special superiority has been the cause of their dominance over a third of a century: it was the superiority of manners, important thing in our age.
There was in those days as a clear dividing line and states that separated into two halves the immense political staff, created by revolutions.
In the course of this line had some part of the tailors scissors.
No was average and was a great pity that so many generous and saving ideas could not by fate, emancipation of rudeness, bad clothes and worse talk.
Thus the advent of the middle class was a tedious and cumbersome.
That class, monkish educated, he could not himself take some rough edges, so it only prevailed in public life the few who knew how to wear the coat.
Genara fired that day, July 16, 1834, and cleared, one to his office, because almost all were employed, the other to take a nap.
Still in those times took naps, and the day following that July 16 was given when available Providence that the government celebrated a nap.
The lady went full of sorrow and fear, fear for he knew if away from Madrid would go away poisonous air, of shame, because he left his life sweet and gifted, their evening filled amenity or interest, its influence in the ruling party, and maybe, maybe something more strongly interest to his heart.
Quitting the brilliance of his wit and beauty, to the adulation of cut small male that celebrated day in and day abdicate the crown and flee the capital of his kingdom of compliments to plunge it into a rustic lugarón where there was no to have more comfort to read tasteless and where he received the sad news of the order her husband was a hard thing for a flattering impressions heart friend, for a fantasy always young and always dreaming to awareness alarm.
Within the limits set to these stories, there is no and the rest of your life full of accidents, and not taken by the Cenobites neither model they intend to be holy, or something resembling saints.
Just say, who lived many years and at sixty was still beautiful.
Witty, kind and somewhat intriguing, it was until seventies, and for two years was a model of Christian devotion and uplifting treatment with clergy and guilds, until God wanted to take from this world.
No dropped her home above and to D.
Very happy, but died suddenly at the last third of 68, if not chronicles are wrong.
That day (we return to our July 16, 1934), D.
Benigno was the last thing he squeezed hand.
The hero walked around the streets of Toledo and square of the barley, because heard that there was unrest in those neighborhoods and liked to browse.
A horrible sight stopped him in his outing.
He saw a boy cruelly murdered by hush in tanks the water sellers.
Things had changed, and the wicked angels were treated as my major criminals.
Cordero declined to enter the street from the Duke of Alba, and in the studies received a header that made him jump off the sidewalk into the gutter.
The hard object that was rammed coffin.
One man wore on his head, giving blows to all passers was in his way. - Beast! - Lamb shouted.
Tables recognized the point, and softening the voice asked - Who is it, brother? - For this, for that - he replied without stopping López step.
Lamb saw some women crying. -XXVII- Disheveled, pale, her eyes sparking anger, trembling hands, fingers stiff and put forward the way of knives, dry mouth, because it voices out more embers words, more like a female devil woman, was at the door Maricadalso a humble house on Rock Street.
The Maricadalso was screaming at times plaintive and sorrowful, sometimes menacing and delirious.
Its loose terms, leaving the mouth sparks violent not fall under the jurisdiction of the written language, because the characteristic of them would to be separating from the gross.
These words were that shade and pepper disputes popular, equal to the brightness of the knife incident in the air and foul blood spatter among the filth of a hard heart out to a thirsty mouth injury.
Many ladies of the lamp, degraded remnant of immortalized D.
Ramon de la Cruz, surrounded to Maricadalso.
A harpy screaming in the middle of the street of the Rock or any other those neighborhoods, you are assured of taking the deepest conviction to the mind of audience, especially if what you say is nonsense of those that do not fall in the head never discrete.
With magic speed, all the women who surrounded Maricadalso assimilated the views and feelings of this.
The people are wonderful conductor of good as the bad ideas, and when one of these sit well on him, beating him completely and mass invades.
Soon the individual was a harpy harpy collective, a hideous monster that occupied middle of the street and had four hands to threaten and two hundred mouths to say things bad in the water!
Who never think, accept with joy the strange thoughts, mostly if it is a thought big so terrifying absurdity again.
Several families at home were dead or dying.
In the presence of a disaster or great misfortune, the people will not occur for natural reasons for what he sees and suffers.
The town is dying with symptoms and frightening characters, and can not think of pathological causes.
Christian routine rigors can not think of God.
Bestial and rude at all, but can not say: Bad things in the water!
This idea of ??the infamously bad things thrown in the rich water of Madrid, in order Pure and simple to kill people, fell into the populace as Magin called the straw.
There has been no idea that soon will spread more rapidly or that run, or that more quickly was elevated to an article of faith.
Some women went to see the body of the daughter of Maricadalso, whose coffin had bring López.
It was a pretty girl, cigar, with honest opinion.
Maricadalso up home, weeping beside the body of his daughter, fell back screaming, cursing, back up and mourn ....
Death no longer seemed Madness singing but in his own way the Dies Irae.
As twenty, thirty, forty men rose to the square of that spreading Barley Satanic gospel of the bad things in the water.
Timothy Pelumbres found, husband Maricadalso and father of the dead.
Heard this screaming and dropping the tools he carried, hurriedly ran a tavern where men fought. - See? - Shouted showing his fist -.
Restless, fierce and small, Timothy had all the appearances of the jackal, looking down and traitor, the muscles nimble, the single blow.
It was the same whom we saw doing donuts in the store immediately to the great butcher of the Peppers, who was protected, as well as his wife.
It was the same whom we saw long ago, leaded cafile the beast who killed the priest Vinuesa hammered 21 in the jail of the street Head.
Reached the time of Chico.
In the pub he was needed to electrify the elite competition.
One speaker was Pelumbres, speaking showing a fist and frowning.
The women were screaming.
Including is one of the news reported that electrified, which double the excitement and sharpen the foul thought.
in the same San Isidro. - As if everything went away ...-- said a voice that was trying to be authoritative and compelling despite being the voice of a savage. - What is out there? - Powders. - The dust!
The claimed this was a big man, an animal of those storms that appear in popular no one knows who brought it, and leave all bloody sign of their passage.
Followed him a dozen individuals of those who show a human face looking at us, although it is doubtful they are men. - Yes, gentlemen, it's all figured out - he said the scruffy, was Charts in person -.
Two women will be hung from each arm.
Formábalo curiosity how awful people gather around the gallows, the pool of blood, a sign a crime, or by the dark agony of a dog.
Tables are proud of their role.
That his day was a day, a day that would show their power with pretensions to political power Oh!
It is not the first time these wicked receive remittances from poison.
The bag that they took yesterday came in Catalonia for that ....
This morning I woke up with evil. - Have you been drinking water? - Has taken the same powder as a medicine.
An exclamation of horror hosted this terrifying statement. - Who has given them? - Priests and monks are all about.
They paid him as a holy medicine, taking them and start to feel the jaws of anger was all the same thing.
Silence grim heard that proved his lack of ideas to that fact and the alarming retreat of his passions, which is then concentrated to emerge more strongly.
Tables placed face distressed.
Wished to excite his compassion for the crowd and go through a victim of the black arts of certain people.
But in his rudeness could not quite swallow the idea policy in that crazy series of blunders.
Trying to spread nonsense and given the improbability which makes it more accessible to the mind of the masses, not without skill tables, because that looks like an owl in the darkness, some understandings have the ability of the absurd.
But he wanted to reason, to deliver a foundation rather than to justify the coup, to be satisfied himself as a man's political views.
I needed a formula to give him prestige among its listeners by awarding some hints of leadership initiative.
He frowned, dropped his head, picked up her mind to find the formula needed.
As on similar occasions in his forehead that looked like the bull's forehead hard, preventing Rush.
The spark came out of the mists of that caletre, as there are dark brain that is, not having their rehendijas where between sometimes some light. - Do not know what this is? - Said with great animation - feeling glimpses of genius -.
Poison by poison is like ....
Looked for the word logical, I had heard many times in the club, but did not give her.
The Plugging word would not want to spend, as a large coin that can not enter the small slit of a bank. - No, not ...-- added wrestling and throwing the word out to the end, though disfigured it is not unreasonable.
They say: 'No we annihilate our enemies one by one, they end up with all mankind. " (Feeling very deep.) He realized that he would do well in that case an historical memory, and re-gather brow.
This was extremely difficult and his brain had no ability to hold an event history.
It amounted to wanting to get, not a coin, but a camel in the bank.
I had heard in the club crowd of citations and references of past events, but he no was coming to mind.
said this: - It's like Herod.
Tables shuddered with joy.
Cupping the scoring with his voice and compasillo paw a chapel, and continued his speech: - Yes, gentlemen, as well as the tyrant Herod, for losing the baby Jesus, sent to kill all children, according to pray the Evangelists, the scoundrels, to see a game end, with the Liberal Party, want to kill all the Spanish, to all mankind, all the globe.
Described with a straight arm circle a vast and very rapid.
God knows to where they would reached the rhetoric of the old butcher, if at that moment God did not allow a sudden tragedy.
It was the first terrible fact, sprouting from the last word of Lopez.
In the mob Ardent words are amazing spread, and cops also the speed with which the These flowers come off of blood barbarism.
A lego crossed in front of America, turned the corner of the square according to Puerta de Moros.
He was hurried and afraid, carrying a bundle of paper in his hand, something like two pounds of sugar, recently purchased the store. - He takes poison! - Shouted several women running toward him.
The lay was surrounded by a group and disappeared into it.
There was more than a thrill arms and heads, a swarm of bodies that struggled between screams.
Some piteous woes slipped between the shouting.
After only saw a dark mass of people in silent siege looking down.
Tables had taken another direction.
The shreds of black cloud that wandered a while through the streets of Studies, Toledo, San squares Millán and Barley.
Great confusion reigned.
The athlete, with his half dozen ruffians walked up the street from Maldonado
