Seeing the giant, thrusting his hand a second time on the web, took out his beloved, he shouted Hardness: - Be careful, monster! ...
Poor Popito maybe he will die.
Edwin looked in amazement at the delicate young man who, unable to keep up, just lie on the wood of the stern, while Ra-Ra held his head, kneeling.
Miss Margaret Haynes, by another name Popito had clothes stained with blood.
With an accent of bitterness, as if the giant had to blame for the injury received by his beloved Ra-Ra was explaining everything that happened since he left prison.
To fall to the bottom of Pocket heard groans painful to see how sweet Popito then dripped blood.
One of the many arrows directed at the man-mountain, to dig into the cloth jacket, had reached its peak.
Ra-Ra immediately jumped at the opening to warn the giant, but he, instead of listening to, hit him with one finger, knocking him back on the body of the wounded girl.
And convinced that Ra-Ra, being equal to him, could only say stupid things when I was angry, dispensed with him to deal only with Popito.
Go back impossible, in the land of pygmies only death awaited them.
The best thing was going to meet the giants its kind, for that poor girl back to health.
He thought that ships of Fleet, warned by the government, and at this hour sail to hunt, and it was necessary pass the barrier as soon as the gods.
Gillespie returned again to the oars, rowing with a wonderful force that would have been considered capable days.
It seemed that fatigue is something that his body could not know.
Supernatural also believed that the day is prolonged beyond its limits ordinary.
Took hours and hours paddling, without their arms become fatigued and without the daytime star descended toward the sea.
Popito, to stay out of his confinement, breathing the salt air seemed to revive.
She smiled sweetly, with her head resting on one knee in Ra-Ra.
His eyes were fixed on his eyes, that looked vertically.
Then, shaking hands, walking both her looks and mysterious and terrible that sea unfrequented by humans of species.
They passed a rock covered with sea plants, which had only Gillespie have given twenty paces. - Here is my glorious buried Grandfather - Ra-Ra said.
The sea was rippling with long waves they did head to the boat and would have constituted a storm surge of ships the square of the Rising Sun.
The two lovers watched with horror the huge movement of the ship. - Attention, children! - Said Gillespie -.
Let us pass the barrier called the gods, and breakers we shake a little.
He folded his jacket over the stern and put in the folds at the two pygmies.
Then continued paddling standing and staring at the line of reefs, for spinning alleys to time open boiling foam on it.
The boat over the waves rose and fell again, playing several times with her keel obstacles invisible.
The shocks to be completed behind the line of underwater rocks, and sea ??of ??dark blue and deep spread without limits on the bow of the boat. - We enter the world of the Mountain Men - shouted gleefully Gillespie.
After these words, immediately became night, and Edwin suddenly felt all fatigue had made efforts.
She reached into her basket of provisions which seemed more exquisite, depositing fistfuls of his jacket to the two lovers eat refugees in their folds.
Could not explain how sleep under his control kept him so many hours.
When he awoke, the sun was high, but it was not the caress of light caustic who returned to the life.
Screams that seemed to come from far away, punctuated by tears, were the real why did you leave your slumber incomprehensible.
He saw it lying between two folds of the cloth of his jacket, his head on a curl Fluffy had prepared and her lover that serve as a pillow.
He was whiter than the day before, as if he had lost all the blood from his body.
He opened his eyes again to close them after looking repeatedly to Ra-Ra and the giant. - Oh, Miss Margaret! - Pleaded Edwin -.
And poor colossus in his voice had the same desperate tone of pygmy Ra-Ra.
As if it needs to look more closely, ran a hand gently under the body of Popito and also put on the palm to his weeping partner, not to deprive him for a moment the presence of his beloved.
Sitting in the middle of the boat remained a long time with the right hand near the eyes, looking the group formed by the two pygmies in love.
Ra-Ra, kneeling beside her, took her hand, opened by speaking anxiously to eyes again, and believing that when it was closed forever. - Oh, brother of my dreams!
The Gentleman-Mountain will lead to his country, and the wives of the giants feel astonishment at seeing so beautiful.
And the giant, with his hoarse voice, he joined the lament caressing, repeating monotonously - Do not you die, Miss Margaret ....
Ra-Ra picked up one of the arms of his beloved, and the arm fell back with the inertia of death.
He opened his eyelids, and could only find a balloon glassy and tarnished, which all light had fled. - He's dead, gentleman! - Cried like a child crying.
And the gentleman sat with his head down, staring at his hand, whose palm had developed the tragic love of his life.
Ra-Ra, lying beside the body and hugged him, cried and cried incessantly.
Gillespie remained motionless, without making any expression of pain, considering useless the externalization of his sentence, because it had an "other self" to shed their own busy tears.
At nightfall, a strong desire to Edwin output activity of this inertia.
A gentleman should be the body of the woman he loved more than a painful contemplation.
He thought of his American cemeteries, green, noisy, abundant flowers and butterflies real gardens that serve as meeting place for lovers and to bring out their graves between Fresh groves on the edge of streams that glide under bridges rustic.
He thought he saw that the adorable body of Miss Margaret began to decompose.
Maybe it was illusion their eyes, but the marble pallor seemed to have a tone dark green, with stripes denouncing the internal rot.
It was better not to witness the breakdown material and hopelessness of this body worshiped.
In addition, his duty was to bury him immediately at sea, and could not do on land.
Same time he took his fingers's body and body Popito Ra-Ra, depositing back on the jacket.
Then he rummages among the items piled in the boat after registration by the sailors of the squadron of the Rising Sun, and found a small box of cigars that he had taken from his cabin to occur bombing packet.
The Pygmies had left empty after taking the six columns of grass pressed, dark and spicy contained within, as high as their bodies.
This box was going to be the coffin of the sweet Popito.
Beginning to sunset, when Gillespie went to the stern with the box in his right hand.
That tomb you want to give is so great Is so cool! ...
But the giant him back with the back of one of his hands, then taking the corpse for deposit in the box.
I was going to close the lid, when Ra-Ra pounced on it. - Metam to me too - he said -.
Popito where I go I go.
The hand of the giant returned to repel, while two tears were falling from their eyes Gillespie, falling inside the box.
Slowly closed the lid, returning with a pressure of her fingers penetrate the studs to make in their old holes.
And had hidden the sun, leaving the horizon a red bar between floating vapors dull gold.
Two other huge drops of tears came to fall on the deck of makeshift coffin.
Meanwhile, Ra-Ra launched continuous wailing, equal to the howls of a little beast wound far away ...
And taking one arm out of the boat, dropped the cigar box.
Floated on water for a moment, then went to the bottom under the weight of someone who had just to throw over it.
Was Ra-Ra, who had jumped off the boat to embrace the coffin, disappearing with him.
And Edwin Gillespie, as if afraid of being alone, in obedience to a superior and mysterious he pushed with irresistible force, he imitated to Ra-Ra, also rushing headlong into the sea.
XVI Where the man-mountain longer giant ended its journey Was involved in sticky darkness.
A force pulling him voraciously, sucking.
Thus it was down to the lower regions, where the darkness was even more dense.
I struggle desperately to feel the first pangs of asphyxiation, while providing furious kick in the liquid environment.
I was certain I was going to drown, and this communicated it to his strength renewed vigor. - Do not want to die, I must not die! - Was said Edwin.
Vital egoism had seized him, erasing the emotional sadness of a moment before.
No longer remember the sweet Popito or Ra-Ra, suicide for love.
This pygmy could kill, owned his life, and he did not intend to deny the right to dispose of it.
But the Gentleman-Mountain not understand under what grounds should imitate the other, only because seemed like a person resembles a miniature portrait of him.
As the young American wanted to prolong his life, he waved his arms and legs, not really knowing if the pit was still absorbing it or if I could go back little by little toward the surface.
His desire was to finish as soon as possible this floating life and abnormal, which his body had to fight against natural laws, working desperately to free himself the gravitational pulls.
Only aspired to find a foothold, something solid you can grab with your hands.
So vehement was this desire that did not take into account the size of the object.
The essential thing was to find grip.
And then his right hand felt the hard contact of a polished wood and firm.
He grabbed her with the tension of going to die, the oppressed as if to embed their fingers in the venous and compact surface.
Then she stuck to her other hand and, leaning in this bra, was bringing his entire body.
So great was the violence of the effort, the wood creaked, scattering sound breaking through the liquid environment and sticky.
Little by little he put his head out of the water and saw that it had closed the night.
But the gloom night was interrupted by the glow of a red sun rays whose blood seemed fluid.
The sun was on her head, and instinctively turned his eyes to see.
It was just an electric bulb protected by a concave glass.
Stunned by this discovery, he closed his eyes to condense their senses and appreciate around him without silly spooky.
The fact that the sun suddenly became in an electric lamp made him suspect that he was asleep or the descent into the abyss oceanic had disturbed his mental faculties.
She opened her eyes, just look in front of him.
The first thing he saw was his feet resting on something that was above the ground, then looked at the ground, which Wood was clean and bright, with tight junctions, and beyond, as a last term, a railing coated canvas exterior painted white.
He felt pain in his hands, owing to the tenacity with which they were clinging to the object providential he had served as a support in his agony of drowning.
Gillespie's eyes still open wrong, followed the length of one of his arms, looking for hands to find the end grabs a butter-colored wood, polished and bright.
This wood is not affected in a way that was unknown to Edwin.
After examining the hesitation of understanding still unclear, finally discovered it was the arm of a chair.
Once this discovery, everything else was easy for him, his powers awoke instantly, helping each other.
He realized he was sitting in a chair with legs extended.
Then he sat, releasing the wooden arm that left you hear a new complaint of breach to be free the desperate oppression.
Was quickly recognized the true aspect of all that around him.
The red sun was nothing more than an electric lamp that illuminate the bridge walk from a steamer.
Wanted take a leg off the couch, and his foot struck something sliding on wood launching a whisper, as rubbing with paper.
By moving his head he saw a fallen book, which had its back up, boasting in his cap a man in coat color to the old legs in the form of a bar, and passing between them an army of Pygmies
