After a few days, Rosario Calvo, who had not set foot in his home life of de Mere, appeared there and was assiduous Tertullian.
It is not easy to find, but many times they had been completed and companies similar, which surely had a simple and safe prescription.
Encariñábanse with friends as if they were all close relatives.
Contábanse of these features self-denial that extremely honored.
During the furious reaction of 1823, a your meetings, lieutenant of cavalry, fled after some attempt aborted at home.
The ladies received him and hid him some days, and managed to get out escapes disguised in the garb of a servant.
Carmelita, in those critical moments, had a stroke of genius and bravery.
He dressed in uniform under his clothes for women.
In fact, this Lieutenant behaved with them quite ungrateful.
Did not take his life ten minutes to write a letter giving thanks.
It was not the only one who had to suffer because of their evening.
Used to exploit these their kindness as they could; recreábanse at home, enjoyed the company and conversation of the most beautiful young Lancia, concerting some marriage, then you do it, or because their business or their age prevented them from attending the gathering, if I saw you, I forget; just the greeting on the street.
The same is true of the breast, as rendered and flattering before marrying their daughters, and so detached so I got.
But such weaknesses are not alter the mood of those blessed or destroy his optimism.
As we were renovating incessantly attendees home, forget the ingratitude of the ancients to think so only in appreciation taxed them new.
Which gave Paco Gómez on one occasion did line: still have joy in Lancia.
Not all were ladies winter nights to socialize.
But there was a bunch of guys who almost never failed to make a while company early, but then they went to other houses.
One was Paco Gómez.
In those lonely nights are usually a party was brisca.
Paco went Nuncita teammate and captain Núñez, or Jaime Moro, or any other boy with Carmelita.
Paco hurt one night that the signs were made during the game were so vulgar and known: it was impossible to make them go unnoticed for the opponents.
The new signs were all obscene gestures, those that are not only in taverns and brothels.
Those innocent women accepted them without knowing what they were doing and were served of them with the greatest ease.
So I spent a few days, and were perfectly seasoned to use them, Paco invited one night to many of the guests to watch the game.
It was an Funny scene up.
Each time any of the two girls would signal had an explosion of joy.
The confess and three more.
Tomorrow I'll take you to Fray Diego.
Nuncita still protested silently, like a girl mimosa, until the severe eye her older brother were silent.
But it was still good time sulking.
Sometimes, know why, appeared unruly and rebellious in the highest degree.
Carmelita needed to demonstrate all its authority to subject.
While not completely more than three or four years, Nuncita, acquired by custom, by weakness of character or perchance because he disliked appear younger in the presence of people, recognized the leadership of his sister and was due to a submission that would envy the mothers for their daughters.
Rarely had need to reprimand her, but when he did, Nuncita lowered head and soon she seemed to take the handkerchief to his eyes and leave the room while Carmelita followed his gaze movements, while shaking his head severely.
Little was needed to punish that leaving without dessert or sending her to bed.
For these reasons and because Carmelita and often call her, Ms Nuncia, there was something in the eighties, Lancia was known by the nickname "the girl." In Matthew Emilita loves both sisters behaved heroically.
For about a month at least, and until we were well on track, not a chair was left open more than it was next to the youngest girls D.
In the lottery game, which was delivered with that inordinate passion society, Nuncita was responsible, but no one should ask, to find cards that were combined.
When referring to official Emilita Pontevedra and spoke as one person.
Services were paid extremely important that the Pensioner with a gratitude that was filled the soul and the eyes out.
Prosternaría is willingly to them and they would kiss cubic fringe dress.
But his dignity and that long series of diatribes against the army that had hung at the feet shackled, kept him from these and other events.
Did not even have the consolation of being able to be cheerful when he accompanied military honor your child on the trip.
But we know that the girls are cared very little gratitude your meetings.
The irresistible vocation married by their spirit, by a need your body, such as the spider weaves the fabric and the birds sing in the forest.
Once bound by marriage, the circles, like men than women, lost its appeal for the ladies of Mere.
His attention was immediately on the new Pollastre chirping coming to come under its protective wings.
Who caused them a series of disappointments and bitterness, which give them little in the grave was the Count de Onis.
But that devil they slipped through his fingers like an eel.
The eyes of the two sisters rested upon them with evident tenderness, no one tried very hard was to interrupt, bit they needed to send others to go down to the voice you do not mind the noise.
For its part Fernanda fell on the same weaknesses, getting to chat animatedly with the boy's ruling without addressing the audience a look at her boyfriend.
Carmelite Nuncita and were terrified when this happened, they went to bed with the deepest consternation.
After the final break, and when at last became convinced that the chance to perform sublime marriage was not reserved for them, humiliated a little ambition and provided assistance to Garnet, who had long demanded it to court.
Also on this side unholy luck struck them ruthlessly.
Fernanda angrily rejected any word suasive that in the favor of the Indian.
If you watched the young ladies had prepared the chairs so that proves that by sitting at his side, instantly destroying their combination dismissive gesture by going to the opposite extreme.
In forming the brisca items or tute would not allow a companion should give it would fail to play.
In short, was so alert and yes it was impossible to attack anywhere.
However, those Mere persisted in their project work to be done with patience, which is the guarantee safer to give big business summit.
A few days after the joke of Paco Gomez were in the famous get-together, more than Pollastre three or four, it Paco, Manuel Antonio, D.
Santos, Captain Nunez, D.
Cristobal Fernanda, Maria Josefa Hevia and two girls of Matthew.
Everyone was sitting less Paco, who was spinning around the room telling the joke that had since the other night at the theater to Manin, the steward of Quiñones.
Since it had been paralyzed, his famous companion walked without shade in the city.
But by the great trust that his master gave him, the circles of D.
Peter kept considerations, and in spite of the hardiness of their treatment setting and costume wearing, when he stumbled on the street embraced him familiarly, he was invited to enter the coffee and sometimes brought him to the theater.
Manin for here to there: the rude village had become famous not only in Lancia, but throughout the province.
That knee-breeches, white stockings that leagues wool color, green cloth jacket and hat calanes gave him an original in the city, where seemed a miracle and a man in this roundup.
It was one of the things that most surprised to outsiders, especially seeing some alternate footing lords population.
Not only out of respect to the Grandee, but because they did gracefully exits Manin brutal, they are perishing for bringing in your company.
In addition, Manin was a famous hunter of bears, which was said to have sometimes fought hand to hand.
The fans of that kind of exercise so professed respect and sympathy.
However, Butler enemies back in his village was assured, smiling sarcastically, that what of the bears was a sham, that his life had been, the more fight them.
Manin added that had always been a zampatortas until D.
Peter had taken a fancy him out of the darkness.
It must be confessed, however, that the conduct of Manin, offering repeatedly bring their friends to hunt bears, without ever fulfilling the promise lent it some credibility.
But to profess respect for the health and integrity of the bears of your country is perhaps reason enough to throw a man to face the qualifier zampatortas?
More logical to suppose that the famous Manin was, as all men who manage to rise above the crowd, a victim of the wiles of envy.
Referred Paco, with his characteristic insolent nonchalance and even dispensed not being found among women, how he had been Manin the proscenium stage with other friends had paid in the theater.
By presenting them on stage brought him to believe that her bare legs.
Manin was shocked, fixing them his eyes, where he painted the astonishment and indignation. "Then you have not seen the best, wait, looks a bit! "When the orchestra started playing, the dancers are snapped toothpicks and walking around all the leg up to head height. "Sollo!" Exclaims poor covering his face with his hands.
The young Tertullian believed in the case to blush.
Everyone laughed less Garnet, who was still at heart the last day prank.
Juan nor his daughter could take them a word, but some maid everyone knew that D.
John had refused in contemptuous terms, which made Maroon flaunt their millions and still authorized to state that Fernanda would not find a more advantageous marriage.
John was annoyed, I call him and dismissed him with drone packing.
Paco, every time he surprised one of those furious eyes, smiling and winking at Manuel Antonio. - Hey, Carmela - said standing in front of a box painted in oils - where you bought the San Juan? - Jesus!
Mr. - said Carmelita, - not a San Juan, a Savior, how to watch it laughs the poor! - Ah!
Demoiselles de Mere, hearing that question, they wanted to go crazy with joy.
And you laugh and laugh.
Many years they had not heard anything so funny.
When they relaxed a little and wiped her tears and rang loudly with tissue herbs, Paco, who enjoyed seeing them so happy, he asked: - But hey, when did you buy, the Savior, that I have not seen so far? - I was in the room Nuncia, my soul, but there was no good because the bed faced in it, and we brought. - He gave it to Carmela, living father, a painter of Madrid happened here a few days - said Nuncita. - Were you young? - Paco addressing seriously asked Carmelita. - Yes, very young. - Does the artist was famous? - Mucha. - Then I know who he was, Murillo. - No, I do not think was his name. - Then it would Velázquez. - The name and sounds more.
Young man was very polite and very handsome, eh, Nuncia? ...
To you I think you made some cuddle ...
Nuncita looked down blushing. - Who remembers that now? - It was very amorous - continued Carmelita, - but also well-bred and well understood ... - Lovesick say?
Just can not be other than Velázquez. - It was not called Velazquez called González - Nuncita said shyly.
