This custom, it is extirpate, forces from both the priests to join at a very early age to the young, with object to somehow explain away the behavior of these and their relatives, for what girls are formally married eight years with twelve young men.
The worship of these exterior is but natural, so that his conscience is entirely foreign to all kinds scruples.
Men cross a spontaneously their wives, which in turn is also when they want to give all his relatives.
I have already spoken in another place, for the superstitions that dominate with respect to disease, and the barbaric conduct these superstitions are forced to look for the sick.
The population of the mission for Magdalena amounted in 1820 to 2100 and eight souls, 1832, to two thousand seven hundred eighty-one, for so in the space of eleven years the increase it had been only six hundred souls seventy-three.
In 1832, state farms had seven thousand seven hundred and fifty head of cattle cattle, and two thousand nine hundred and twenty horses.
There are 20 degrees north east of Magdalena, a mountain whose summit is visible from very far on the horizon to aim it is necessary to take advantage of the dry season, and if not, one in which the general flood allows free navigation through the plain.
Magdalena road to Concepcion.
Baures Concepcion Magdalena far from twenty miles to the south.
At the station dry leaves on horseback, across the plain, but in the rainy season is up nine leagues Itonama the river, much curved near Magdalena and passing through flooded meadows in part, but populated by thousands of cattle belonging to the rooms in San-Antonio and San-Miguel are discovered at one side of river.
From time to time also became aware on the riverbank some capybaras and alligators that come out of the water.
The edges of this River, which is enough width, are bare of trees until they reached their confluence with the stream of Guacaraje, by which three leagues up to the port of Concepcion, located on the bank.
This port, nine leagues from Concepcion, and in which there a captain in charge of your vigilance, is the starting point for missions and Moxos Mamore, not being able to continue on the White River, whose large and numerous rodeos greatly lengthen the path.
Leaving the port is followed by a beautiful road from two miles long, built by the Jesuits in the middle of a swamp.
This road, made no more than land, perfectly drawn, and easy transit all the time, leads to a forest also two miles long, and covered with palm fronds and palm tree variety very beautiful, which adorn a sandy soil, full of blackened earth, very convenient for tillage.
After the jungle, there is another road almost as long and well built as the first, then some boscages, and finally a plain, flooded in parts, leading to the Rio Blanco.
Pass the canoe, after having made to swim the horses often drown often frightened by the alligators, so abundant in all rivers.
A third road of the same nature as before, leading finally crossing straight line a deep swamp, to the town of Concepcion.
The mission of Immaculate Conception Baur was founded by the Jesuits, then the year 1700, with the Indians of the nation Baur, who were at that time, as the Moxos, the most industrious natives of those regions, knowing protect, and constructed tected clothing or cotton robes.
The people and the beautiful cultivated fields around it, occupy a quite spacious and very even, which always remained dry and being surrounded by swamps, has to form in the rainy season a kind of island a distance of just over a quarter of a mile of the stream called Black, by which indigenous people are fields planted to yourself.
A dirt road, which is two leagues long, to this stream joins with the Rio Blanco.
Among the buildings in this mission are distinguished, the church built with wood and bricks, and his school, which consists of many courtyards, in the first has a flat building high, the lower rooms that form the periphery of the others, serve as workshops.
In each of the four corners of the square, which is quite spacious, there is a chapel, the center is occupied by a large cross surrounded by beautiful palm Kuchi, on the sides are seen numerous houses of the Indians, placed in a row and placed in the most suitable for facilitate ventilation.
These Indians are, as I said, the most industrious of the missions, do some tected very fine cotton and a lot of esteem in the republic: the hammocks that make no can be of better quality, but it is also true that require assiduous work, and that between six wives employ one or two months in the fabrication of a single hammock.
There are workshops tegedura, painting, carpentry, where you can admire, and painted tablecloths pen, very original work, and chests and boxes neatly worked, and a thousand other objects made of rosewood inlaid with mother of pearl.
Also Fabrícanse chests, beds journey, etc.
Other artisans are engaged in skillfully weave fine straw and nothing brittle, with making hats, cases and lots of gorgeous objects.
Finally, this population, the most industrious of the province, exploiting all known for their curious jobs served many times without other tools than their knives, which merely duplicate merit: there are used gourds, transforming them into jars or painted vases, which look so beautiful as those of China, the coconut, making boxes turned, and many other materials such as antlers, bones, crocodile teeth, ETC.
Plantations belonging to the Indians are somewhat apart from the mission on the banks Black creek.
In 1830, the locked state farms nine thousand three hundred forty-two heads cattle and two thousand three hundred twenty-nine horses.
Concepcion has changed somewhat under the government of the republic.
The difference in products both manufacturing and farming, observed between 1803 and 1830, given a proof. +------------------------------------------------- --- + | | 1804. | 1830. | | |-------+-------| | Cocoa.
arrobas. | 118 | 120 | | Beeswax. "| 21 | 7 | | Sebo. "| 80 | 40 | | Sassafras." | 11 | "| | white cotton nuggets. "| 197 | 925 | | Cotton lint." | "| 33 | | Canvas.
rods. | 2.411 | 2.154 | | hand wipes. | 60 | 29 | | Tablecloths. | 5 | 32 | | Sheets.
pairs. | 28 | 24 | | Desktops. | 18 | 30 | | Sox. "| 36 | 6 | | Caps. | 80 |" | | Ponchos. | 10 | 62 | | Napkins. | " | 32 | | Scarf neck. | "| 23 | +-------------------------------------------- --------+ Baures Indians, residents of Concepcion, usually attached to his toughness and physical strength, a very kind and gentle character, but unfortunately so timid that the only fear of punishment are determined to yield and bow to it.
The chief, whose authority borders on Absolutism is the despot more rigid, and never leave unless accompanied by his lieutenant and interpreter.
The Indians profess a servile respect, so when you see it coming, are removed hat from far away, crossing his arms over his chest he may not do so would punished severely as has happened many times.
Administrators and priests, not dealing more than their interests, leaving all copyright to these proud chiefs, who have no qualms about abusing her at his own discretion, and as today or religion, or customs of the Jesuits severe to discourage their derangement, drink chicha maize continuously to get drunk, then administering justice according to his whims.
It has been noted that individuals living Concepcion very little time when they come to obtain the position of chiefs, a circumstance which necessarily abuse brutal that make all the joys that provides the new range, which at the same time that destroys your health, so puffed up, that certainly would change their badges cacique on an imperial throne.
The bad example is the unbridled depravity of superior breeds corruption a people who scarcely discerned on the horizon the first dawn of civilization, so Concepcion as residents were already filled with vicious shameful, and immorality has reached its highest degree.
The girls, completely naked until the age of consent, know no modesty, so nothing can curb bad behavior later, above all, having already extinguished the principles of sound morality professed before the natives, and returned to dominate among the women the beautiful custom confused with many other palm trees look beautiful.
As are forbidden to Indians of all missions Moxos going armed rebellion from held in San-Pedro, hunting is plentiful in all these spot, growing more and more not being pursued.
The monkeys are having fun at every step to the travelers with their faces and bounds: there is also a kind of night monkeys.
The river is full of dolphins dolphin or a very strange kind that lives in fresh water constantly: his skin is pintitas pink or dotted.
It is one thing that really surprised to find these animals more than eight hundred leagues from the sea, when the known species live forever in the oceans, or just upload a few leagues from the mouth of the rivers.
When the rainy season is well underway, you can save a third of the way out by canoe from the same mission, and across the plain in a straight line until to a stream called Oquire, which will lead to the right in the White River, which then leads to Carmen.
OUR LADY OF CARMEN.
The people of this name, which lies, as above, fifteen miles south of Concepcion Baures, is located on the right bank and at a short distance from White River, occupying the center of a plain where flooding never reached.
The church is simple: State houses, grout with tiles, are temporary: the rooms of indigenous have thatched roofs are in very bad condition.
Four totais palms that surround the average cross placed in the plaza, is perhaps what is most notable in this mission.
Throughout the day remained hidden under the roof, letting out a very loud odor similar to musk.
When night falls, thousands of them out to wander through the air to pursue relentlessly mosquitoes without ever destroy them.
Around the village should be picturesque in dry weather, but in the rainy season, Only the banks of White River offers a pleasant look for cocoa plantations that adorn.
A very comfortable road leading from the river mission.
In 1792, having been informed that the manager of Concepcion near the headwaters White River there was a tribe of savage Indians, took part in this event the governor Zamora, who was ordered to fetch them, taking to it all necessary measures [1].
In 1794, haprimitiva of the nation, delivered without reservation to all his relatives.
In sung Masses that are said in the church at Concepcion, yet still held apparatus employing the Jesuits, instrumental music is such, that surprises really captivating taste to pair admiration.
The bass tones are produced by an instrument of the invention of the Indians, a kind of pastoral flute to bagpipe, a or two yards long and made of palm leaves, bound one to another, forming thirteen tubes different size and thickness, nine of these tubes are placed on a line for notes whole, and four on one for the midtones.
To play this instrument, whose notes low produce extraordinary sound, it is necessary to place it horizontally, not address zampoña vertical and ordinary.
Finished the Mass, some Indians, crowned with feathers, leg full of bells and carrying in his hand a large wooden sword, running ahead the church a religious dance and martial very monotonous; completed this, there are more sixty musicians, armed with flutes of every shade, from the highest notes to the lowest, and standing in two rows, are started slowly and a Compaz unique music, accompanied by drums [1].
Each of the musicians made their instruments to produce one particular note, and all these savages generally flatter entirely consistent heard many times of their great harmony.
This troupe of musicians, followed by the people, stops to pray before the shrines that adorn the four corners of the square.
In 1830, the population of Concepcion was composed of three thousand one hundred twenty-six individuals and was divided into twenty sections, or bias, whose names are: Gimoboconos, Hompaceboconos, Write to us, Tirajabanos, Nipocenos, Coriceboconos, Choyinobenos, Itapimuyiros, Taramuinos, Chaquionos, Muchogeonos, Choromonos, Cabiripoyanos, Abejanos, Arayamanos, Amoriciboconos, Paresabanos, Paromoconos, Abenbanos, Joboconos.
Road to Carmen Concepcion.
Cuéntanse fifteen leagues from the Carmen Concepcion, which is towards the the south, or if you like, two days of sailing, climbing canoeing on the White River is very deep, well boxed and much wider than the Rio de San-Miguel, it has at least one hundred fifty yards from side to side.
Although little difference in appearance looks the same, its current is somewhat more tortuous, and increases with the charge of streams that flow from the neighboring marshes.
Its banks are well-built manned the Baures a number of canoes, sufficient to carry out this expedition, headed the indicated place, where they found hundreds of Indians, the rest of the nation Tapacura, submitted by the Jesuits in Concepcion de Chiquitos, and taking with him willingly or by force hundred individuals, together with ninety-five families Moxos Concepcion, the which composed a total of three hundred fourteen Baures, creating the mixed population in this small town del Carmen.
This was first built near the banks of White River, about twelve miles southeast of the site now occupied, but by unsafe site, was transferred in the year of 1801 to the point where this exists.
The Tapacura it agreed readily to the customs of the missions, and soon they was so submissive to all the same rules as Baures.
The population was composed of Carmen at the time of its foundation, of five hundred and fifteen people; but having intermittent fevers prevented its accretion in 1801 was almost the same notwithstanding that there were seventeen native who spent seventy years [1].
In 1815 there were reached number sixty-six six hundred inhabitants in 1822, that of seven hundred and sixty and eight, and in 1830, nine hundred and thirty-two.
This figure is very low provided to the fertility of Indian women to stop almost every year, but three-quarters of children usually die on the eighth day of his birth.
This population was composed, in that year of 1830, the following indigenous Quitemocas or Chapacuras. 340 Muchojeones. 230 Baures. 362 ----- 932 The Quitemocas, Chapacuras, or Tapacura have retained their original language, although they Baures language use has become widespread in all missions Moxos East: the Muchojeones speak a dialect slightly different from that of the Baures.
The population of Carmen is the most backward of all the province with respect to industry factory, their very ordinary tected.
Cocoa products also yield the most fruitful you should, because of the great neglect with which it is grown.
In the surrounding forests is reflected large number of excellent vanilla.
In 1830, state farms were composed of three thousand six hundred animals, cattle, and three thousand two hundred ninety-two horses.
All located on the south plains of Carmen and on the bank of the river San-Miguel, are also populated entirely earned savages and it is estimated that the number should exceed ten thousand.
Major means of communication between the province and neighboring provinces Moxos.
Currently, the province announced Moxos, with the river Chiquitos San-Miguel, with Yuracare and Cochabamba Chapare river, and also by the way practiced by me down Securi river, with Santa Cruz de la Sierra in the rivers Grande and Piray.
I shall give here a indication of these various vehicles of communication.
Moxos Guarayos Walk to the river of San-Miguel.
Seven or eight days they used to be the country of the Carmen de Moxos Guarayos, falling in canoe, about sixty leagues to the northwest, by the river San-Miguel, the edges in Guarayos near present an extremely varied.
On their own embankment is discover some virgin forests, and whose foliage of varying colors stand Tufts Mambu bounds of canes or tacuaras, contrasting with the finely cut leaf of lambaibas, or with the dark green of the palms palm fronds.
