The perverse part of my guy took me over a moment, in a moment I also learned to silence it cornering at the bottom of my heart.
In one other signal masts put Gravina withdrawal, and accompanied by the San Justo, San Leandro, mountaineering, Indomptable, the Neptune and the Argonaut, he went to Cadiz, with the pain of not being able to rescue the San Ildefonso, has been held by the enemy. - Tell me what you spent in Nepomuceno - "my love with great interest -.
Even I can not believe he is dead Churruca, and though all give it as a certainty, I have the belief that divine man must be alive somewhere. " Malespina said that unfortunately he had witnessed the death of Churruca, and promised tell time.
All his predictions have come some, all, until his death, it is clear that the sensed, as it was safe not to achieve victory.
On 19 Apodaca told his brother: "First take my ship, the I have to fly or sink.
I I believe that this certainty and the impossibility of help, feeling strong enough Thus, deeply troubled soul, capable of great deeds, as well as large thoughts. "Churruca was a religious man, he was a superior man.
If any are missing them, I will shot immediately, and if it escapes my eyes or those of the brave officers I have the honor to command, his remorse while he will drag the rest of their days miserable and unhappy. " "This harangue, so eloquent and simple, that unites the performance of military duty with the religious idea, caused excitement in the whole envelope of Nepomuceno.
Everything was lost as a treasure that falls to the bottom of the sea.
Sighted the British Churruca with the greatest displeasure was early operations mandated by Villeneuve, and when it signals made the squad virase round, which, as everyone knows, embarrassed the order of battle, told his second and missed the action felt so awkward strategy.
Since then realized the risky plan of Nelson, which was to cut our line through the center and rear, involving the combination square and partially breaking their ships, with such a provision, given that these could not help. "The Nepomuceno came to be the end of the line.
Rompiose fire between Santa Ana and Royal Sovereign, and on all the ships were going into combat.
Five ships English Division Collingwood went against San Juan, but two of them moved on, and Churruca faced no more than triples forces. "We argued strongly against such a superior enemy until two in the afternoon, suffering much, but returning double havoc to our opponents.
The great spirit of our heroic leader seemed to have communicated to soldiers and sailors, and maneuvers, as well as shots were made with astonishing promptness.
Cam people had been educated in the heroism, no more than two hours of learning, and our ship, for its glorious defense was not only terror, but the astonishment of the British. "They needed reinforcements, took six to one.
The two vessels became who had attacked us first, and was Dreadnoutgh the side of San Juan, to beat us medium shot of a gun.
You go figure the fire of the six giants, throwing bullets and shrapnel over a 74-gun ship.
It seemed that our ship grew larger, growing in size, as it grew the courage of its defenders.
The gigantic proportions taking souls, it seemed that also took the bodies, and to see how forces instilled fear six times, we thought we were something more than men. "Meanwhile, Churruca, that was our thinking, directed the action with astonishing serenity.
Realizing that the skill had to supply a force, save the shots, and trusted all to the good shot, thus ensuring that every bullet made a positive havoc in enemies.
To all attending, all available, and shrapnel and bullets ran over his head, but never once flinched.
The man, weak and sickly, whose beautiful and sad born face to face did not seem as scary scenes, infused us all mysterious burning, only the beam of his eyes. "But God did not come out alive from the terrible strife.
Seeing that it was not possible hostilities to a ship by the bow bothered to San Juan with impunity, was himself to point the canyon and managed dismast the contrary.
Returned to the quarter-deck, where a cannonball hit him right leg, with such success that the off almost more painful as the upper thigh.
I still think I feel under my hand the violent beating of a heart, which until at that terrible moment, but did not beat the homeland.
His physical decline was very rapid: I saw him struggling to straighten the head, he leaned on his chest, I saw him trying to revive with a smile his face covered and a deadly pallor, while a voice hardly altered, he exclaimed: This is nothing.
Follow the fire. "Her spirit rebelled against death, hiding the sharp pain of a maimed body, whose rearward palpitations were extinguished in seconds.
At last, yielding to our prayer, he realized it was necessary to leave the command.
From what I heard, I understand that on board each ship had been a tragedy so dreadful as that I had witnessed, and said to me: "How Disaster, Holy God, caused by the stupidity of one man!".
And although I was then a boy, I remember thinking that: "A foolish man can not do at any point in their lives the nonsense that sometimes make the nations, led by hundreds men of talent. " -XIV- Much of the night was spent with the relationship Malespina and other officials.
Interest of those stories kept me awake and so excited that I could not even long after sleep.
I could not take my mind the image of Churruca as I saw him safe and sound at home of Mrs.
And indeed, at that time had caused surprise me expressing the intense sadness of the famous ocean's face, as if it presaged his painful and near end.
Noble life that was extinguished at forty-four years old, after twenty-nine of honorable service in the army, as wise, as a military and as navigator, because everything was Churruca, plus perfect gentleman.
In these and other things I thought when my body finally gave in to fatigue, and I was asleep at dawn on 23, having overcome my youth to my curious nature.
I explained that sudden change in our situation of prisoners, looked aft and saw our flag floating instead of English.
The officers encouraged to the crew, it carried and fired the pieces that had been serviceable, while some were engaged in guarding, teniéndoles at bay, the English, who had been disarmed and herded into the first deck.
The officers of this nation, formerly our guardians had become prisoners.
The heroic commander of Santa Ana, D.
Alava, seeing Some Spanish ships were approaching, coming out of Cadiz, in order to dam ships prisoners and save the crew of the wrecked near, went with patriotic language his dejected crew.
The storm had rages, and was general opinion aboard the Santa Ana that if it took us to arrive, we would spend very hard time
