God will have to reward.
We'll live, yes, yes.
Look, look: the day I can leave, we're all in the field, the child of a snack.
No, I praise him ....
Let's see, D.
Francisquito. - Well, it occurred to me ...
is no idea now that I have some time ....
It occurred to me Isidora maintains that if the papers of his estate and inheritance Aransis house, we trying to get that ....» Isidora looked between stunned and amazed "that" Again? "Was all he said. "Yes, yes you are right D.
Francisco - said the poor consumptive, which was good, giving with a crazy drunken optimism .-- ....
will try That can not be so. - I have the suspicion - Torquemada said, - that those who participated in the action again not been really ready, or were sold to the Marquesa old ....
What we see, we have to see. - I in quantitative release the cold.
Makes me want to get to paint, D.
As the child get out of bed I want to make the portrait. - Thanks, thanks ...
all three are very good, right?
Come a hug, and ask God for me.
I have to go, because I'm an uneasiness that I can not live. - Nothing, nothing, that the child is better, who is saved - the artist repeated increasingly fired .-- If I see him, if I can not go wrong. " Isidora prepared to leave with some money his way to the home loan, but the poor Artist assailed him cough and dyspnea with greater force and had to stay.
Francisco said goodbye with the most affectionate expressions knew and taking the checkered came out with them under layer.
If Martin will be right!
The spendthrift has illusions consumptive in the last degree.
Insurance is deceived about himself, and succeeds in everything else.
Where he goes is the niche soon ....
But the dying often have double vision, and may have seen the improvement of Valentin ...
I will say that I collect in paints, as these notes, for sale, I would not half of what I gave.
Is not it worth more die because here, when an artist is alive, damn if anyone makes, and as they die of misery or tired, put him in the clouds, we call genius and whatnot ...
hear Francisco and drop pictures and hugged the old woman, was all one.
The rag was crying, Worse and gave three kisses on the forehead.
Torquemada was beside himself in shock and anxiety.
He was the man with nerves strained, unable to sit still for a moment, as soon wanting to lie to mourn as burst out laughing.
Came and went in the dining room to the bedroom door, from this to his office and the office to the cabinet.
In one of these flips, Aunt called to Rome, and messing with in the bedroom she made her sit down, and said: - Aunt Rome, do you believe that the child be saved? - Lord shall be as God wills, and nothing else.
While it is not dead, there must be hope, though they say caregivers what they say.
If the Virgin commands, doctors are going to make daggers ....
Other: Last night I fell asleep praying, and I thought that the Virgin was down to delantito me, and I said yes with his head ...
You'll see. " He opened a vargueño, whose mounted drawers keep papers and jewels of great value had come into his hands as security for loan-sharking, some were not even own, others, yes.
A while he was opening boxes, and to Aunt Roma, who had never seen anything like this, it her eyes dazzled with the splendor of fish that came out of the box.
They were, she said, emerald nuts, throwing pale rays diamonds, rubies and pomegranate seeds, and fine gold, gold for the best law, worth hundreds of thousands ....
Torquemada, after open and close cases, he found what he wanted: a huge pearl, the size of a hazelnut the beautiful east, and holding it between your fingers, showed it to the old. "How about this Pearl, Aunt Rome?" - Beautiful indeed.
For it is, if my son gets good.
I'll show you, and get to know you intended, to tell him.
If I tell you, sure I do not believe it. - D.
Francisco (looking with deep shame), you are wrong with the gourd.
It was a wedding of her Excellency the Marquesa de Telleria.
Believe it, as it is small. - But, D.
Francisco, you think that Virgin is going to concede ...!
I will follow your advice although, if I tell you the truth, that to give to the poor is to be nonsense, because the give them spend it on liquor.
But I'll fix it so that the money from the pearl will not end up in the taverns ...
And now I want to talk about something else.
Put a lot of attention: Do you remember when my daughter, walking one evening outside with Quevedo and Morejón, came to rest over there, where you live, to the Tejares of Aragon, and entered into your hut and came telling me in horror, the poverty and saw there?
Yes: Rufina told me this, and I should have you no shame and you had it.
I should give you a bed, it has served us well, I loved my wife, I want to children, and you come here so many years that we've ever stolen or the value of a sad nail.
See this wool mattress on top of a mattress Spring?
It is for you, for you, for you to rest your bones hard and I sprawled to indulge. " The mean expected an explosion of gratitude for such a splendid gift, and already seemed to be hearing the blessings of Rome aunt, when it came out a very different level.
God forbid that I should lie there.
When comes the ugly side of me find it without a speck, but with the awareness and the jets silver.
I do not want the mattress, that within them is your idea ...
because here sleeps you, and at night, when it gets to ponder the ideas they get through the fabric inside and docks, and there will be like bugs when no cleaning.
Or that he was silly, D.
there Inside, there, are all his sins, the war which makes the poor, his stinginess, revenues that breast, and all the numbers that walk the Seseras to affix money ....
If I sleep there, at the hour of death I would leave on one side and the other about toads with a big mouth, a nasty soap opera that I enroscarían in the body, a ugly hell with mustache and bat ears, and I would catch with each other to take dragged into hell.
Go to the ray, and beware their mattresses, I have a bed bags made of cloth, with a blanket over him, which is the glory of God ....
That really is rich for a good sleep .... - Well, gimme, gimme, Aunt Roma - said the miser with grief .-- If my child is saved, I agree him to sleep in the rest of my life, and to eat no more than the crap you eat. - In good times and sunny.
And all this is because They are in trouble, but if the child gets good, you will be more bad to Holofernes.
Already going to look old, look the best day is put in front of the face bare, and it it does not give you the thymus. - But where do you get you stamps, Surat - Torquemada said angrily, grabbing her by the neck and shaking it - where do you get you that I am wrong, nor have I ever been? - Let me, Let me go, I wiggle, I'm no tambourine.
and announced the hunger that had happened.
Now that is rich does not remember when I started to win.
As if it's not for me, brought him some egg ocultis, had died a hundred times.
Do you remember when he got up you at midnight to register the kitchen to see if he found some stuffing, the Silvia had hidden to eat alone?
And I I was angry, and came back every day will bring something to the Silvia.
As you were the one who was to purchase, we will not pilfer, and did not have a sad unhappy blouse to wear.
Was a martyr, D.
Francisco, a martyr, and saving you money and giving it to peseta hard a month!
And meanwhile, did not eat more raw roe with dry bread and salad.
Thanks I started with you what I gave in rich houses, and one night, remember?
suit boar bone that you were throwing into the pot six consecutive days, until it was drier than his soul Picture Rating.
I had no obligation to bring anything: it was for The Silvia, whom I took in her arms when Sena was born out of Rufina, the passageway of the Dog.
And what to you was furious that I keep those things to it and are not given to you, lightning!
As if I were you required to fill the belly, dog, rather than dog ....
And tell me now, do you ever given a real value?
She did what I did could, to the sly, but you, the very capigorrón, what has given me?
If you are brave to do. - Look, all the old demons - Torquemada said angrily, - out of respect to your age will not I bust a kick.
You're a liar, a devil, with his whole body full of lies and entanglements.
The devil is with thee, and thou art cursed among all the witches and scarecrows which is in heaven ...
It was late afternoon, and darkness reigned in and around the unhappy miser, when he heard clear and unlike the cry of a peacock that Valentine was at the height of his high fever. "And said it was better! ...
Son of my soul ....
We have sold, we have been deceived. " Rufina came crying into the room of the beast, and said, 'Oh, Dad, what has been unwell; but what unwell! - That from Quevedo junk! - Shouted Torquemada taking a fist to his mouth and bite Rabies .-- I'm going to get the bowels ....
He has killed us. - Dad, by God, do not be like ....
Do not rebel against God's will ....
