So could the barber quietly shaved continue Edwin, dropping their dense foam projectiles that the spread on the ground were disturbed and frightened jump to the horses of the guards.
When given by this operation is completed, engaged cutting the hair of the giant, tough and dangerous job.
Armed with a curved saber bearing held between the teeth, were climbing the slopes Skull, clinging to hair bundles as if they were the thickets of a mountain.
This work enjoyed greater public that earlier, owing to the skill of the climbers and the dangers that face.
Could kill if they lost to such an enormous foot height.
A great character momentarily distracted the attention of the curious.
Wide road was opened in the crowd to give way to the open space to a two-wheeled carruajito, in the shape of a shell, pulled by three slaves melancholy garment worn by all a cloth around their bellies.
These human beasts were driven by a woman, dry body, with aquiline nose, eyes, compelling and a whip in his right hand.
Laurel crown that adorned their temples served to recognize that even those who had recently arrived to the capital. - It Golbasto, is the poet - said they all looked at her with admiration.
She went through the crowd smiling protectively like a god, also became among the officers females, who greeted her like a national treasure and considered to be placed by range at the head of all vehicles privileged, or is next to the legs of the giant.
Distinguished people stopped looking at the man-mountain to look at the great poet, and Golbasto believed this made necessary murmur some words, like directed to herself, to correspond to the silent homage of his admirers.
As the barbers were cutting hair vegetation, the stacked bundles, binding them with her hair down, just as if they were sheaves of wheat.
And were so numerous that the harvesters moved with difficulty, and one of them inadvertently pushed one of the do, by rolling down the sides of the skull.
Ran to save officers who had dismounted and many of the privileged onlookers.
The glorious believing woman was fatally wounded screaming and the crowd, in spite of his admiration ended up with a merry laugh at her irreverence.
Then wrapped in another lash human his three horses, and those who knew the language of the flogging, they went at a trot, passing the carruajito the crowd.
The aggressiveness of the poet almost caused a disaster.
The man-mountain, feeling the sting of the lash in a calf, it was both hands, bowing.
Those working at the top of his skull lost their balance, clinging to the strong time weeds capillaries to non-fatal collapse from a height.
Two strong men who were on a dropped shoulder, headache, and had been shattered on the ground of not being stopped by a fold of the huge canvas that covered the chest giant.
The scale supported by a knee lost his balance, toppling their horses to three bearded and letting riders badly injured.
Several of his comrades dismounted to take them to the nearest hospital.
Barbers down the giant's head, saying the operation is finished.
The cavalry gave a charge to expand the piece of land free and the man-mountain could rise, returning to his home without crushing the curious.
Thus ended barberil work, and the crowd began to retreat from what had satisfied and propose to witness again as soon as announced by the newspapers
