The seventeen galleys of Genoese did not dare back to Constantinople, although the lack of people need and could force them, but fearing Andronico's indignation, and the insolence of the Greeks, and were led to the narrow Back from Italy, bringing them to Demetrius.
Came the voice of the danger that was Gallipoli to our army, which had been withdrawn to their garrisons, after victory was achieved against Massagatae, and fearing to lose before being rescued, he quickened his way, and came two days after the Genoese sailed up.
Was the universal feeling at all, for not coming in time to punish so much unfairness in the Genoese, as breaking the peace with them, being absent and undertake defended its women's prison.
Further enhance this feeling to see them hurt and battered; but the taste of victory then stripped and held together contentment and joy den both of victories.
The Turks and Turkish Greeks are in the service of the Catalans.
While Catalan and Greek arms dealing in his own ruin, the Turks free fear that the army could give both of them, if the accord and joined prosigueran war, returned to follow the course of his victories, and occupy the provinces of Asia, not army taking oppose them at the stream of his prosperous fortune.
Because, according to Pachymeres account, the year twenty-four of the Kingdom of Andronicus, the son of Christ 1300 and six deserted the Greeks around the point of Asia and this was three years after ours came out of it, from which we gather the damage was clearly the division and discord of the Catalans, and Greeks, for her missed opportunity to press pride that nation in its principles, which at this time could have been done with little difficulty.
The Turks absolute lords of Asia wanted to put his foot in Europe, and delay their victorious arms in the West.
Stopped a few years the fulfillment of your desire lack of ships that pass that they were on the other side of the Straits of Gallipoli.
Using of the present occasion of seeing the Catalans enemies of the Greeks, sent to Gallipoli their messengers to entice the minds of our people, and if wanting to admit any treatment venirles to serve.
Showed no desplacia them.
The Catalans with this by sending messengers an armed frigate, and with it came the Captain with ten Jiménez colleagues to conclude the deal.
Offered on behalf of his people come up with eight hundred horses, and two thousand foot, and provide oath of allegiance to the Catalan general.
The conditions were, to notify them quarter to a part where they could live together with their families, that they were given prey half of what was given to the Catalan soldier, always wishing to return to his land could without violence, they should be made to stop them.
Ear proposed by the Turkish by common consent were admitted to their service offering to meet the conditions oath.
With this answer Jimelix returned to pass the Straits, and to prevent people while the army arrived and soon after embarked on ships and galleys that could be Together, they reach Gallipoli two thousand foot, eight horses and Turks, with their children, and women, and property.
This was the fact that the Catalans convicted of ancient and modern very bad writers, go to the Barbarian Europe infidel enemies of the Christian name, sullying the glory of that expedition with such wicked and detestable advice, as it was open the way to Europe so graceful and powerful nation.
Unjust charge which was undoubtedly these writers put the Catalans, yielding to the passion or the neglect of non- inadvertently, unawares in a serious writer.
Wicked advice was the Catalans, and pernicious for freedom, if the Turks who admitted in his favor were higher in strength, because then they could freely enter your sect, and do damage to his faith, and press together the freedom of those who were called.
Relief and aid should not be larger than themselves might, for not going the way of a Scipio in Spain, where thirty thousand Celtiberians with notable perfidy forsook him, and he and bottom could not stop.
Where Livio pulled an important document.
The Turks did not come to three thousand in number, in arms, in value, lower to the Catalans, so that one could not assume that the Turks do more of what ordered the Catalans, and still are Christians, it is certain that their faith can not be jeopardized, Barbarians looking as those below the offended.
In communities of the Kingdom of Valencia, at the time of our grandfathers, who served faithfully as were the Moors, and use them against Christians was taken by lawful and necessary.
Not otherwise served the Turks to the Catalans in Greece, over the self-defense excuse any that this mistake could have been made.
Republic was not tight war nor prince foreign or civil, which has ceased to call for your help people of religion and customs different, and often ushered in the most powerful kingdoms, to get rid of this damage, without realizing that they could be defeated by debris, or victors.
The danger neighbor saves with ever greater, and since there any way of dying, good is dilated, and choose the most remote, and may cease to be.
If the Catalans do what they did and Narses Stilicone, the one they had called the Goths, the other to the Lombards for the ruin of Italy, and the Empire, could not be more offended by the pens and tongues of history, some are called ungodly, sacrilegious, other pirates, the common plague people, men without God, without law, without reason, and everything is born because his PLEASE CALL Turks, who understood this more, it offends some Christian ears, but well abvertido and find out, no reason to blame him slightly, when more to offend with words so broken, and full of slander and insults.
Also find any difficulty about the time when the Turks came, because Nicephore says that the Catalans were called before the battle of APROS, when it emerged that Miguel came upon them, and they alone were five hundred that passed.
This narrative of Nicephore I have it as false, because Montaner in number, and time to disagree, and as an eyewitness should be given more credit, but Catalan, and offended, because the history speech refers many things against their nation, and condemns evil deeds freely, and without respect, and not to believe that he who speaks the truth in their harm, do not tell as it did not matter to his glory as the Turks came four years earlier or later.
Zurita following relationship Berenguer de Entenza, Nicéphore also differs, for says the same Berenguer de Entenza called the Turks after they learned of the death of their ambassadors, and who came to Gallipoli thousand and five hundred horse, and he took the oath of fidelity.
This also I have it as false, because it seems impossible that in a fortnight Berenguer stopped at Gallipoli, after being declared an enemy of the Empire, call Turks who were in Asia, and will consult with them and came together fifteen hundred horses, and shipped, and should come to swear fidelity are things that although did with great alacrity, could not be completed in fifteen days.
The truth of time who spent the Turks, clearly refers Montaner, who was four years after this day, and to have this is certainly not a difficulty or impossibility, as any, and very large in what it says Nicephore, and Zurita, and so on facts Turks just continue to Montana, because I have for more real, and who spoke and attended in all these conferences.
At the same time the Turkish Greeks who served the emperor, declared by rebels, because imitation of the Catalans want to be paid any salary or get help with weapons, could not, being few, stand on its own, sent word to the Catalans that if they admit in their company.
Responded that they should come safe, that they would use as with the Turks, and with more advantages for being Christians.
They came up to a thousand good horses, and took the oath of allegiance under the same concerts that did the Turks.
These forces lost the emperor, will magnify the Rocafort, for Turks, and Turkish Greeks also respected him and recognized by the supreme head, and with this assurance of being so obeyed, and loved them faded, and became odious to many, by the insolence and absolute power with which he ruled, and sent it.
Berenguer de Entenza events after his imprisonment until his release and his return to Gallipoli.
With the new relief Turkish Greeks, and Turks and many other Spanish who went before hidden in parts of the empire, as merchants, or under the name of another nation, ours is increased because credited with many victories, all sought his friendship; moved some with the desire for revenge, most with their greed, they wanted to participate in wealth that they had gained public fame in the war.
At the same time Berenguer de Entenza, after long and laborious prison, and had wandered in vain by the courts of certain princes of Europe, to give warmth to the company of Catalans, arrived at Gallipoli with a ship, and with five hundred men, people all estimation.
Disturbed the peace and quiet of the Army his coming, by the powers of government between Rocafort and he arose, but before writing the causes and reasons that one and the others had to compete, it will be good to have a long relationship of what happened to Berenguer, since they set until his return.
After Ramon Montaner by order of the captains of the army tried, without being able to conclude Berenguer rescue, when the Genoese galleys passed through the straits of Gallipoli Back from Trebizond, was taken by some thing that would be coming to Genoa Berenguer to release, and would give him satisfaction, being captain of a vassal king friend.
It did not happen as they thought, rather a republic if authorized so ugly, or punish your general, and giving freedom, and amendment of the lost to Berenguer, because if the offense not punished, was approved.
Came to the knowledge of the Catalans of Thracia and Berenguer was held in Genoa in prisons unworthy of his person, without trying to give freedom, and determined of apparently common, and that weapons could not try, begging the Don King of Aragon Jaime interpose his authority with the people of that republic.
To this were appointed three ambassadors, they were, Vergua Garcia, Perez de Arbe, Pedro Roldan, both of the council of twelve.
They arrived in Catalonia, and gave the king his embassy, ??proposed the biggest insult to them had been undertaken under Berenguer faith and word to the captain, and continue it wrong extending their freedom, that all came from them has made to his feet, waiting his clemency, that the troubles forgotten past, would give the remedy to agree, and good office at your request.
They gave particular relation of his victories, and state that were his things, and the Empire, whose dominion was offered if it helped with heat by their provinces to be defenseless, exposed to the rigor and weapons of that first rush; and would have one of its largest heraldry, power at the expense of their work, and his blood, increase their crown, and to obey his name in the most remote and away from Europe and Asia.
The king answered that give pleasure to so good subjects, he put his authority and weapons when it mattered, and more for Berenguer de Entenza, one of its greatest servants.
As to give Relief was excused by Don King parecelle that his brother Frederic of Sicily suited him plus given: that he was away, and hardly could be given hands, nor provide when they won the provinces of Greece to Catalonia, but acknowledged and considered his will.
This preliminary, the three ambassadors went to Rome to represent the pope the occasion they had to reduce the empire of Greece to their obedience, if the Catalans of Thracia were given a big help, as it would if Fadrique Don grant him the investiture to pass with him to the company, with a Legacy of Holy Sete, and publish Crusade in favor of those who would go, or help with charities.
The pope is not well received embassy, ??and seemed put on treatment because of his had great difficulties and increased was the fear that the house of Aragon is not enlarged by the medium.
Jaime King to fulfill his promise, he sent his embassy to the Republic of Genoa, meaning great feeling that he had been in prison for Berenguer, one of his greatest and most major vassals, and that this had been in contravention of the treaties of peace, whether through wisdom of the lordship had been executed, asking them to Berenguer had in freedom, and give him satisfaction the damage he had received, because otherwise they could not fail to make any demonstration.
The Republic decided to come as the king commanded, and replied that he had felt the Eduardo de Oria his general did Berenguer de Entenza, and that was vile people riot of the galleys which caused such great excess, it could not address by the captain, and general executed until after, that they would certainly free to Berenguer, and named Eleven people that came together with the deputies that the king would send in the place where was served, to discuss the amendment which was to give Berenguer for damages had received in the loss of the galleys, and in prison.
With this fine firm is fired the ambassadors of the king and the republic sent others to their part represent the same feeling alive and had had all of it, that his general, but without fault had offended his subjects, and then sent it emerged that bring him to Berenguer to Sicily, and restitution of what he had taken.
Suplicáronle then they send Catalan them to leave the company of the Turks, and depart from those provinces where they had most of their treatment, and that trailed by the damage, and incursions continually they made for them.
The king offered to send it to send if Berenguer was satisfied.
Berenguer Since his release, the king sent his deputies to Mompeller, place which indicated to treat the reward, and the Republic sent Señoriño Donzelli, Melia Salvagio, Gabriel Sauro, Rogelio de Savigniano, Antonio de Guillelmis, Manuel Cigala, Jacomio Bachonio, Raffo Doria, Opisino Capsario, Guideri Pignolo, and Jorge de Bonifacio, all his advice.
These were those who joined the deputies of the king, and after many meetings and agreements to be proposed, never by the lordship came good to them, finding in all cases of doubt to conclude, and ultimately broke up the meeting without giving any satisfaction by the lordship, and this seemed so polite response that gave the king, was so that this means the king sent the Catalans not to innovate the way kinds of weapons against Genoese, as friends offer to fix it.
Berenguer desperate to reach the reward, he was the king of France and the Pope to try the second time helper for the Catalonian Thracia, proposing the same as the three ambassadors proposed, but neither the king nor the Pope, wanted to have them and he had to return to Catalonia where he sold part of his estate, and gathered five hundred men, all known people and talk, and embarked on a large ship, left the quiet of his house to go to the friends who had at Gallipoli.
Berenguer de Entenza, and Berenguer de Rocafort divided the army in Vanda.
Berenguer de Entenza after he arrived at Gallipoli wanted to exercise his office as I used before be arrested, and Berenguer de Rocafort said and things were bartered, and did not have that rule more than you brought, others already had general.
Alterarónse the minds, seeking all that they should be the supreme authority.
Friends and relatives of either of them, with words broken and full of arrogance threats that their weapons would do obey.
Divided the army with this competition, everything was messed up, and about to get bigger break, moved some gossip that went talking.
Were close to coming to blows, because it is missing among many who like to stir, to do harm to the enemy or credited to the friend.
By Berenguer was said that before his imprisonment was general, and had been first happily undertook the provinces of the empire, and the perfidy of the Genoese was lost, not to have missed what I had to.
After a long prison suffered to be their general, was to be no chance to remove the charge, but rather to honor him with him when he would not have had, that there was unlucky to lose what they won for their value; free seeing that sold part of his estate to give relief, and to this was added Rocafort to what offended him most, the difference so uneven in quality, treatment and condition, Berenguer wealthy, Rocafort, private gentleman, the one polite, liberal, peaceful, the other harsh, greedy, insolent.
For the struggling Rocafort his claim friends with reasons of great consideration.
Based their right to say, that Rocafort had ruled the country as the supreme master six years when he took charge of the government, were our parts from all points lost and industry, and value it had restored, and that his nation in its time had been made the most powerful and prized of all the East: it would be very unfair thing to take away the government time of happiness, having been in such tight times, which often wanted death for lesser evil than expected, that the fruit of the work was to whom suffered enjoy, rather than the other noble and great as was, and it would be a remarkable grievance if he removed the post in which he had increased his name as indicated victory, and freed his people from a sad and miserable death, which always had by some.
While both sides was the case, came almost to breaking, sending its pretension to arms So many times within the walls of Gallipoli were to given battle, because as there was no one who could decide the case, being the army divided, brought all of the obligations, and fans who each had, could not govern, or limit as a covenant for the common good.
