No doubt The blind man said yes, because five minutes after they were seen sitting side by side in the base of the fence surrounding the statue of Mendizabal.
The face Almudena, an ugly expression, dark citrine, with wispy beard, black as the raven's wing, was characterized mainly by the excessive grandeur of the mouth, when he smiled, affected a curve whose ends, replicating the loose skin of the cheek, got too close ears.
The eyes were like sores and dry and insensitive, surrounded by patches sanguine; medium size, crooked legs.
His body had lost its graceful shape by the habit of walking in the dark, and spend long hours sitting on the floor with legs Moorish folded.
Decency wore on, as his clothes, but old and full of dirt, did not tear or damage which were not amended by a darned smart patches or applications and patches.
She wore black boots, very pink, but perfectly seams and patches defended habilis.
The bowler hat revealed dilated services different heads, to come to lend at that, that may not be the last, dents felt they were not such that would prevent the defense skull material covering.
The stick was hard and glossy, the hand that was holding him, nervous, outside morenísimo color, throwing Ethiopic, white palm, his tone and softness that resembled to a press raw hake, nails trimmed, the collar at least dirty it is possible to imagine the miserable condition of the unhappy and wandering life of His son. "For what we were going, Almudena - Benina Sena said, taking his handkerchief to put it back, restless and nervous as a person who wants to ventilate the head -.
I have a serious commitment and you, nothing but you, you can get me out of it. - Dicermi it, you ... - What did you think to do this afternoon? - At home me, mocha that JACER me: I wash clothes, sew mocha, mocha patch. - You are the breading man in the world.
I have not seen another like you.
Blind and poor, you fix yourself your clothes, thread a needle with her tongue sooner than I with my fingers sew to perfection, are you tailor your shoe, your laundry ...
And after asking in the parish in the morning and evenings on the street, you have time to go for a while coffee ...
You of what there is, and if there were justice in the world and things were willing to reason, should give you a prize ...
Well, son, because what is this afternoon I leave work, because you do me a service ...
I'm so unhappy, if you do not throw me shelter me the Viaduct ...
That's right. - Amri ...
pulling no. - Is there such a big commitment, so great that it seems impossible that it may leave them.
I'll tell you at once to give you free: I need a hard ... - A Durro! - Almudena said, expressing the sudden seriousness of the face and the energy of accent the horror that was causing the magnitude of the quantity. - Yes, son, yes ...
hard, and I can not go home if not before it.
A hard, Almudena friend, you have any ...
With what can you buscármelo you, yes or no. " Something said in his strange blind Benina language translated by the word "impossible", and throwing a deep sigh, which Almudena answered with another no less deep and plaintive, remained a painful time in meditation, staring at the floor and then to the sky and the statue of Mendizabal Mr dark green bronze that she did not know who he was or why he had put there.
With that look that is vague and distracted in moments of intense bitterness, as a harrowing twist the soul itself, he saw pass by a garden and another band of people hurried or lazy.
Some had a hard, others were searching.
Collectors spent the Bank's Satchel shoulder; carts with beer and soda bottles, hearses, which was conducted the cemetery one to whom nothing mattered and hard.
With rapid vision Benina reviewed the boxes of such shop, the different quarters of all households, into the pockets of every well-dressed pedestrians, acquiring the certainty that none of those folds of missing a hard life.
Then I thought it would be a step too salty to submit it in the nearby home of Céspedes saying to do a favor to give a hard, it should give even a loan.
Surely, they would laugh at such absurd claim, and would nicely on the street.
And yet, it seemed natural and right wherever a tough represented only a negligible amount, it should give it, for whom such sum was ...
like a huge atom.
And if you pass the desired currency hand with many other possessed her, to theirs, would not be noticed any change sensitive to the distribution of wealth, and all follow the same: the rich, rich, poor her and others of their poor condition.
Poor Benina was content with a drop of water and Withdrawal before the pond could not have it.
Let us all, heaven and earth, would I lose Retirement something the pond because it is take out a drop of water?
V This thought, when Almudena, returning from a meditation calculator, you must be very sad face that went down, you said: "Did not you thing that comb? - No, son, all committed and, until the ballots. - Do not be someone who Priester you? - There is no one that I rely now.
No I take a step without encountering a frown. - Mr Carlos call you tomorrow. - Tomorrow is too far, and I need the hard today, and soon, Almudena, soon.
Every minute happens is a hand me the noose tightens I have in the throat. - Do not mourn, Amri.
You be good Migo, I arremediando you ...
Hurriedly made their way down the street from Meson de Paredes, speaking little.
Benin more suppressed by anxiety that the resiliency of the pass, threw light on his face, and each Once he heard bells of clocks made a grimace of despair.
Cold North Wind I drove down the street, puffing his clothes like sails of a ship.
One's hands and another was ice, and his nose dripped red.
Their voices hoarse, the words sounded with hollow cold and sad.
Not far from the point where Meson de Paredes leads to the Ronda de Toledo, found the hostel Santa Casilda, a vast hive of affordable housing in runners superposed aligned.
Enter it by a yard or corral long and narrow, filled with piles of garbage, waste offal and waste of everything human.
The room we lived was the last of Almudena ground floor, at ground level and not had to cross a single step to enter it.
Housing made up the two pieces separated by a mat roof slope: next the kitchen, another room, also a room or cabinet, with well-beaten dirt floor, white walls, not as dirty as others of the same human or burrows mansion.
Saddle was the only piece of furniture, because the bed was a mattress and blankets brown, leaning around a angle.
The stove was not without pots, pans, bottles, nor food.
In the center of the room, he saw a black figure Benina, something like a bundle of clothes, or a bag abandoned.
In the dim light that came after the door closed, she observed that the lump was alive.
It is this that helps pay for the room ...
But do not lose time, son, give me the suit, which I will take ...
and with the help of God, I will take even two eighty.
Go get me thinking about what is missing.
The beggar, meanwhile, uttering angry words, it is not easy to play narrator, being in Arabic, felt the bulk of women intoxicated, which as a dead body lying in the middle of the cubicle.
A angry expressions the blind, only answered with harsh growling, and turned away, sprawled and stretching arms to fall back into deep slumber and more brutal inertia.
Almudena put his hand in between the black robes, the folds, scrambled with shawl, formed an inextricable mess, and accompanying registration of furious exclamations, explored also the flaccid bosom, as if you love skins with cloth.
I was so nervous man I found what should be covered, and hid what they like to see the light of day.
There took rosaries, scapulars, a bundle of papers wrapped in a hard piece of paper, horseshoe pieces gathered in the streets, teeth of animals or people, and other trinkets.
Following registration, entered the Benina, back and diligence, which had sent so quickly, as if it had been brought on wings and the angels of heaven.
The poor woman came sofocadísima the fast run through the streets, I could hardly breathe, and Fire dismissed his sweaty face, her eyes joy. "I have been three - he said, showing the coins - a quarter.
My regolver Piech things. " Benina shook the drunk's clothes waiting to see a coin jump.
But it jumped more two forks, and some bits of coal. "I had more." She rattled the blind, and by the explanations given of the nature and behavior the big woman, could understand that if they had found this in a state of normal clearance, peseta would have given the asking.
With a short sentence summed up his partner Almudena Hosting: "Being Bueno, be bad ...
Benina took it while he drew from his pocket Almudena, where he had many tools, scissors, needle spliff, knife, etc.., another envelope with two shillings.
He said to them he had received from D.
Carlos, and gave everything to the poor old woman, saying: 'Amri, and arriglar tigo. - Yes, yes ...
You deserve to drop the lottery, and if you do not like, it's because there is no justice on earth or in heaven ...
I'm on tenterhooks.
Each one, for the sake of not suffering, get drunk so you can: this with the aguardentazo, others with something else.
I also lame, but not well: mine are deeper thing ...
Al Left alone, Almudena went to the kitchen, where, among other junk, had a palanganita tin and a jar of water.
He washed his hands and eyes, then took a pot in which ashes and coals were off, and going to a neighboring house, he returned a little while with fire, over which poured a handful of some substance in an envelope of paper beside his bed.
Fire rose very dense smoke and a pungent odor.
Was the incense of benzoin, the only remembrance of the native soil material that allowed Almudena wandering in exile.
The special aroma, characteristic of Moorish house was his comfort, keenest pleasure, religious practice and home together, then wrapped in smoke that things began to pray that no Christian could understand.
With the smog, the snarling drunk again, and cleared his throat, and coughing, as if trying to remember yes.
The blind did not make him more attention than a dog, attentive only to their prayers in that language know whether it was Arabic or Hebrew, covering one eye in each hand, and lowering them later on mouth to kiss.
Median time spent in meditation, and when finished, was sitting before him with eyes slut lloricones elusive and, because of the itching caused by the thick incense, looked at him.
Seriously presenting palms, Almudena I let these words: "Great pick, not having more than one God ...
b'rracha, b'rrachona not be more than one God ...
Clumsy sleep out alcoholic who could not quite put everything in its site or to cover the modesty seeks and ever sought to be covered. "Jai, you I've arregistrao. - Yes ...
Not have more than one God, one God alone. - And to me, what?
For me who have already two or forty, all that they themselves want to have ...
But tell me, sponger, I've removed the peseta.
Pa ti era. - A God alone! ".
And seeing him take the stick, put women on guard, saying, "Hey, do not hit, Jai.
He had spent the best of life in an eager rush, which required much activity as a prank, crazy efforts of the mind and muscles, and that teaching was fortified in body and spirit, it formed the special temple woman will know who read this timely story of his life.
With amazing alacrity entered in a drugstore in the Calle de Toledo, collected medicines had ordered early in the morning, then did stop at the butcher shop and grocery store, carrying her shopping distinct wrapping paper, and finally entered a house in Imperial Street, near the Rinconada that is the True almotacén and Contrast.
Glided along the narrow portal, blocked and almost impassable by the flaps of a trade of rope that is in it, rose stairs, walk to the main rapids with moderate step up to the second, came panting to the third, which was the last, with honors attic.
Turned a large patio Gallery of leaded glass, uneven ground due to uneven subsidence and the old factory, and finally came to a paneled door, unpainted, called ...
It was his house, the house of his wife, which, in person, groping the walls, came the noise of the bell, or rather hoarse jangling, and opened, not without the precaution of asking for sight, square, defended by an iron cross. "Thank God, woman ...-- told at the door -.
Apologized Maid's explanations for his delay was to give them fear, and began to defensive, waiting to see where it came from Dona Paca, and what positions he took in his irascible genius.
Something reassuring tone of the first words with which it was received; expected a sharp rebuke, words complacent.
But the lady seemed to be of good, trained, indeed, the harsh nature of the intensity of suffering.
Benina proposed, as always, accommodate is that you play the other, and soon to be with her, changed the first phrases, he calmed down. "Ay, ma'am, what a day!
I was undone, but would not let me, I let out of that blessed home. - I do not explain it - said the lady, whose Andalusian acentillo persisted, although highly attenuated, after forty years of residence in Madrid -.
On hearing the twelve, one, two, I said to myself: 'But, Lord, why take so long Nina?'.
Until I remembered ... - Right. - I thought ...
as I have in my head all the calendar ...
Romualdo! - Everything you say is not enough. - Tell me, what are you wearing? - Nervously asked the lady, who liked to know what ate in the homes of others -.
That if it was I first cook the whole Europe ...
that if shame is not sucking her fingers ... - What next? - A fricassee that they wanted for themselves and the angels of heaven.
then ... - For though I have you told me not to bring any leftovers home, they prefer misery God sent me to suck the bones of other tables ...
Seeing fuck, Benina hesitated a moment, but no woman was undaunted by any danger and mastery of the trick suggested working soon remove: "Well, ma'am, I left the basket bringing suit in Mademoiselle Obdulia, who needs it more than us. - You did well.
I praise the idea, Nina.
Two and a half kilos, ma'am.
Sotero Rico gave me the higher. - What desserts, drinks ...? - Up Champagne of the Widow.
Priests are the devil, and nothing is private ...
But let's go inside, it's too late, and will be the lady fainted. - I was, but ...
I do not know: it seems that I've eaten all that you've spoken ...
Here I am with half an ounce of raw chocolate. - Come on, let's go.
But soon release ...
also I bring medicines.
That comes first. - Did you do all that I commanded you? - Asked the lady, launched the two into the kitchen -. "Grasp my two petticoats? - Why not?
With two pesetas I took, and two others who gave me D.
Romualdo for his holy, I could attend to everything. - Did you pay the oil yesterday? - Well, no! - And the lime and bloody? - All, everything ...
And I still have left over after the purchase, for tomorrow. - God Will you bring us a good day tomorrow? - Said with great sorrow the lady sitting in the kitchen, while the maid, with nervous promptly gathered chips and coals. - Ay!
Yes, sir, keep it at that. - Why did I tell you, Nina? - Because I know.
Tomorrow we have a good day, I say that a great day. - When you see him tell you if you hit ...
I do not trust your hunches.
You're always with you tomorrow, tomorrow ... - God is good. - Me no think so.
No shots were tired of me: I beatings, will not let me breathe.
Spend years waiting for the remedy, and no illusion that I was not become disillusioned.
I get tired of suffering, I also tired of waiting.
My hope is treacherous, and as always fool me, I do not want to expect good things and bad I hope to come ...
even regular. - For me that Mrs. - said Benina giving the bellows - have trust in God, and would happy ...
That does not: I feel very comfortable in this world fandanguero, and until I have him for odd jobs law happened.
Not die. - Would you settle for this life? - I'm satisfied because it is not in my power to give me another.
Come all before death, and we suffer provided they do not miss a piece of bread and can eat with two sauces a very good: hunger and hope. - And support, and of misery, shame, humiliation so, due to worldwide not pay anyone to live a thousand tangles, traps and tricks, not to find who you rely value two real keepers ourselves persecuted and sellers? - Go if you take it! ...
Everyone in this life, as can be defended
