Goethe owes more, however, with their own feelings and thinking, enlightened, since his trip to Italy, by the intelligent and earnest contemplation of the artistic treasures and privileged in that beautiful country is preserved.
Goethe, who at first had been romantic, like the romance was then understood in their nation, and as shown by his two major works written before going to Italy, Werther and Berlichingen Goetz returned from there completely classical, but classic their way, and not with the sensuality of French classicism.
Its classicism is a term midway between the fashionable in France, and the new German romanticism, while more informed high ideas that do not compromise, but synthesis.
Goethe does not want mere imitation, nor pure fantasy and freedom, but both powers linked, each of which exercises born one way, while the union of two appropriate style.
The true artist and poet, are those who invent imitation.
The characteristic, which should enter any work of art, gives the imitation is like the skeleton, the frame or canvas of the work, and life, muscles, blood, color, embroidery, then come by fantasy.
The combination of these things is born beauty.
Meticulous artist, cartoonist and mean dry is one that mimics only: report author sketches the only fantasize: perfection lies in fantasizing and copy at a time.
In the beauty of nature is diffuse and mixed germ, is also itching, as desire to be increasingly clean and completely.
It must remove the artist, choosing the best and ugly aside, but even given this extracting operation, the beauty is not created, but it embodies and individually in a sensitive way.
The aspiration of the artist and poet's ideal, but ideal individual must be the same time.
The purpose of art is to represent all in one, and express the infinite in finite form.
Goethe rejected, under this doctrine, the doctrine, the division, then as in fashion of Christian and pagan art.
For him there is more than an art, whose fund, whose substance for infinite and sublime I would assume, must enter and comply with number and extent and accuracy and precision within a limited and individual.
Imitation looking through the things the main idea, the original idea, which they impurely done, and art should be the most pure.
In this sense artistically superior to nature.
It is also because of the artistic moves away everything irrelevant and insignificant in nature is mixed.
Moreover, for Goethe Art has its own end: the creation of beauty.
It is true that in this creation is implied an end, moral and social, very useful and beneficial, what Aristotle called purification of passion: what Goethe called the rescue, redemption or freedom
