Teresa laid him in his bed when he saw the poor fellow was trembling in his arms, holding his neck and murmuring voice like a bleat: - Mare!
was the one that was more sad.
I saw the little boy when his father put him on the hard spine of the animal, hitting the shiny little feet flanks and screaming "arre!
Lord that deceive their mother painful forebodings, that was just the animal suffered which was, that is not carried on their backs to the poor little one way to heaven, as at other times he wore in the paths of the garden clinging to his mane, slowly, not to tear it down!
And poor Batiste, thinking occupied by so many misfortunes, shuffling in his imagination sick children, the dead horse, son and daughter Descalabrado his concentrated sorrow arrived at the outskirts of the city and spent the Serranos bridge.
At the end of the bridge, on a plain between two gardens, opposite the octagonal towers hovering over the trees its pointed arches, its corbels and crown their battlements, Batiste stopped, running his hands over his face.
I had to go to the masters, children Don Salvador, and ask to borrow a piquillo to complete the amount it would cost the purchase of a hack that would replace the Morrut.
In the shade of tall bananas worked the orchard people hairdressers, barbers to "face the sun." A pair of armchairs with seat and arms esparto polished by using a stove in the pot of boiling water, towels and a razor dubious dull color, that scraped the hard skin of the parishioners with spooky rails, were all fortune of these outdoor facilities.
To make workplaces and solemnize the sales we wanted the protection of a sunshade, under a big woman who sold pastries adorned by flies or glasses filled with sticky content of half a dozen bottles on a table lined with zinc.
Batiste went and reviewed several times between the brutes, without regard to vendors beset him guessing his intentions.
Not to be beset by necessity, had left without buying, believed to offend the deceased be turning those unfriendly beasts.
At last he stopped before a white steed, not too fat nor shiny, with some scratches on the legs and an air of fatigue, a workhorse that despite its appearance of overwhelming, seemed to be strong and courageous.
Just ran a hand through the legs of the horse, he appeared alongside a gypsy, obsequious campechanote, treating him as if he knew all his life. - An animal with pearls, it is good that you know the beasts ....
And the aforementioned Monote, a gypsy bare-bottomed air breaks and shorts scabby face, grabbed the horse by the halter and ran out the ups and downs of sand followed by the poor beast, who trotted dismissive, as so tired of an operation sometimes repeatedly.
He ran the curious people gathered around Batiste and the Gypsy, who remained with their eyes the progress of the animal.
Guando Monote returned with the horse, the farmer examined it carefully.
He put his fingers through the yellow teeth, ran his hands through the legs, lifted their helmets to inspect, carefully recorded it between his legs. - Look here, look you - read the Roma - who for that is ....
Cleaner than the whistle.
This does not fool anyone: all natural.
No animals are arranged, as do others, that disfigure a donkey in a heartbeat.
I bought it last week and neither did I care fix the little things that have legs.
Or an elephant has its thrust.
There in the neck you see the signs.
Batiste examination did not seem unhappy, but made efforts to be upset, using of pouting and coughs.
Their road woes as he had made known to the beasts, and inwardly laughed some curious, influenced by the poor appearance of the horse, arguing with the gypsy, saying it was only good for sending to the "Caldera".
How much? - As for you, a friend - said the Gypsy patting on the back - for being for you, nice person to know well to treat this piece ...
But have you look at the animal?
not a penny more.
And the gypsy, hastily his reasons, which were not few, appealed to the supreme argument: - Monote ...
out the animal ...
Huh? - Said the Gypsy -.
He swears by his Sallu would not do this or for my stop.
Let's see, Monote: to remove it again.
But that did not take Monote of his lungs again, then walked away pretending Batiste had given up such a purchase.
He wandered through the market, looking away other animals, but always watching from the corner an eye to the gypsy, who, feigning indifference also followed him, watching him.
He went to a big horse hair strong and shiny, not thinking about buying, guessing his high price.
Just ran his hand through the legs, he felt with his ears burning breath and a murmur - Thirty-three ....
Salu by their children, do not say no, you see that I put in right. - Twenty-eight - Batiste said without turning.
When he got tired of admiring this beautiful beast went on, and doing something witnessed how an old peasant haggled a donkey.
The gypsy had come to stand beside his horse and watched him from afar, shaking rope halter as if he called.
Batiste approached slowly, simulating distraction looking at the bridges, through which they passed as moving colored domes of open umbrellas of women in the city.
Scorched sand bed, the air confined between the parapets, not moved with the slightest gust.
In this warm and sticky, the sun, falling flat punctured the skin and lips burned.
The gypsy walked a few steps toward Batiste, offering the end of the rope as a Inauguration: - Neither you nor me.
Thirty, and God knows nothing gained ....
Thirty, do not tell me no, because I'm dying of rabies.
Batiste grabbed the rope and reached out to the seller, who energetically pressed.
The farmer was taking from his belt all that indigestion savings that swelled the womb a ticket which he had borrowed the master, a few pieces of hard to, a handful of silver Petite wrapped in a paper cone, and when the count was complete could not escape go with the gypsy the shadow created for guests to a cup and give a few cents to monotheism for his trot. - It brings you the jewel of the market.
Today is good day to you, Senor Baptist has santiguao right hand, and went to see Our Lady.
Still had to drink a second cup, a gift from the Gypsy, and finally, cutting short his stream of offerings and flattery, took the halter of his new horse, and with the help of agile Monote, mounted on the bare back, leaving them short step from the noisy market.
Barely remember the poor Morrut, and felt the pride of ownership when the bridge and on the way they turned some from the farm to examine the white nag.
His greatest satisfaction was when passing the house to take the Cup made a trotting nag presumptuous, as if it were a horse breed, and saw him go after peered Pimento at the door and all district lazy-eyed amazement.
Their wheat, tall and green, formed as a lake of restless waves by the wayside, the alfalfa showed himself fresh, with a perfume that did dilate the nostrils of the horse.
Could not complaining about their land, but within the cabin was where we were afraid to misfortune, eternal companion of his life, waiting to hammer nails into it.
When he heard the trot of the horse, went Batistet with his head covered with rags, to seize the halter while his father dismounted
