In the background is a vast expanse of land traversed by unequal the murky Guadalquivir, where hills alternate manifold, small plains, inclines, narrow canyons and plains interspersed with the smiling valleys which is the river in its twists and turns whimsical, down a deep channel and clay, among large granite rocks and slices in several stretches.
Finally, if you look closer, removing the view of the winding strip of Guadalquivir (á whose margins delay Ubeda, Baeza and Andujar), there is a series of inclined planes fertile hills and glens of luxurious vegetation and cultivation esmeradísimo, where the road turns in search of Baylen.
Funny everywhere cottages with vast groves bordering the way or disclaim the inheritance, crystal streams and busy they seem to leave with joy the harshness of the mountains to go hop on hop to take the Guadalquivir their murmurs and liquid pearls; extensive vineyards on the most bare hills and mountains; many plantations of vegetables, grains and seeds; considerable areas populated in symmetrical rows of olive trees, fruit trees at the edge of the road and in the gay gardens; olive mill here, beyond a few cows grazing in the fallow, near the picturesque little house; groups of simple and happy peasants, working together men and women, the elderly and children, everywhere vegetables, water jumping, flowers, life-giving sun, shadows delicious work, activity, strength, life, happiness and welfare.
The traveler descends with pleasure by those inclined planes, bowing to the Andalusia a land of love and prosperity, and even if you see that there is much yet to improve or do and that those people are just in childhood, they are forgiving grace defect qualities they reveal.
When the races have fulfilled their mission in their respective times, according to the measure of his mettle and character they need in order not to deteriorate, crosses that will rejuvenate and breathe new print.
The great work of the Spanish race in civilization was the conquest of the New World.
Accomplished this great and momentous epic the Spanish people had to seek its strength and activity items in partnerships with other families of mankind, otherwise down.
This truth is revealed in Spain and in big as in the small.
Wherever there is a mixture of races - in Catalonia, Andalusia and Basque provinces - is the strength, activity, life, and the weakness and stagnation manifested in Castile, Galicia and Asturias, where race has remained almost totally pure.
In the villages of the Sierra Morena did, in small, the same observation.
There blood Germany has been mixed with the Hispano-Arabic, resulting in a robust set of families, intelligent, industrious, peaceful and beautiful type.
I loved to contemplate, in passing the funny group of kids, dressed in pretty toilet, pink, blond, light jumping like birds to round the diligence, in the main streets of Carolina and others populations, offering travelers flowers and fruit while the grandmothers and mothers, sitting at the doors of their houses, looked at us with a sympathetic curiosity, not suspended why the work of hand or the movement of the spindle indefatigable.
They did not ask for alms, although in Andalusia, for reasons mentioned later, is also in the cities and villas large number of beggars.
Out and the spurs of the mountains and near the bottom of the undulating valley of the Guadalquivir delay the ancient village of Baylen, on an incline surrounded by high hills and midst of vast olive groves are the main wealth there.
Baylen is a poblachon ugly, uneven, dirty, crooked streets (legitimate old Spanish type, dating nothing less to the year 729), with a population of just over 8,000 souls, some object factories very coarse, heavy oil production (very badly prepared, as almost all of Spain) and many common canvas looms.
Bad lunch there, eat worse, the wine is Malena, and you want to follow up hastily.
Very near the village lies the uneven field where it took place on 16 and 19 July 1808 the battle and the famous battle of "Baylen," which were the basis of independence Spanish in the fight against Napoleon.
Taking into account the military capacity of the medium General Brown, who won there, the poor quality of his troops, the vast superiority of French, by their number, quality and position in the field of battle, and the skills of quarterback Dupont, who sent them, will find that perhaps has not been without foundation the view that complete loss of the French army was due to treason.
There were 40.000 French expired almost without a fight: 3,000 dead, 20,000 prisoners, including seven general many thousands scattered, 45 guns and all the equipment in the hands of Brown.
My two companions as loyal French longed to cross the field of Baylen. - U Do not think - I was told both noble sincerity, - that makes us sigh the memory of defeat, no.
Baylen is that it is not for us but a shameful page in history France, spotted by an unjust war of treachery and usurpation, committed against a people brother, in spite of the French nation. - Then there is no reason to remember the event with regret.
That evil can not tax consciousness revolutionary France, she weighs about the memory of the despot who, born of revolution, turned his back and pushed the world with the weight of his sword. - It's true - he said Mr.
B. ...,-- but history is history, and the vulgar confused often the work of despots with the people.
We passed shortly by the Guadalquivir, deep, slow and quiet, a beautiful suspension bridge thrown over huge rocks, touch, about 16 miles Baylen, in the village of Menjivar, located on fertile ground and with about 1,600 inhabitants, and through fields and pretty rough usually grown, we, about 36 miles ahead, with the curious city of Jaen, of picturesque situation, dominated by a high hill on top of which holds an old castle formidable a while and now happily ruined, and the walls and other strengths circulating population.
Jaen, a city of the third order in Spain, in its proportions, has 21.520 inhabitants, generally poor, despite the country's suitability for a host of major productions such as wine, oil, grains and minerals.
All that country, essentially mountainous, although spontaneous vegetation bare, abounds in vast deposits of iron, lead, silver, mercury, coal, marble top, etc., entering the mineralogical composition two saws that cut through the Andalucías.
And HOWEVER, mining is just beginning to be A whole industry, agriculture does not progress and the inhabitants of Jaen are very poor.
It all depends on the lack of communications, because with the exception of the main road there but very bad roads and sidewalks almost impassable to a regular trade.
Spain is a country marvelously rich in its entirety, but the indigenous wealth without changing anything goes.
I can not describe to Jaen, because there we scarcely twenty minutes of rest.
The traveler who wants to stop in between, is exposed to not continue their journey in many days, because the seats of measures are taken in cities that serve as points starting.
The general structure of Jaen, a former residence of a viceroy or wren Moor is essentially Moorish, as it should be assumed.
Everywhere narrow winding streets large paved with river pebbles, uneven terrain, abundant sources (because Moros loved much water), houses with roofs and balconies, galleries of arches in the form of horseshoe, or with very small pockets, and strange and whimsical constructions.
The cathedral Jaen is famous for a few precious details, but a whole lacks exterior character which makes it more curious, revealing the succession of various styles.
The base was the great mosque and as he swarmed over Gothic and Renaissance works, was an architectural jargon, original and very special in Moorish Spain.
Follow the road towards Granada course by the end of a narrow and lovely little valley, formed by the stream called Rio de Jaen, a tributary of the Guadalquivir, like all current that mediate between Sierra Morena and Sierra Nevada.
Amid the maze of hills and mountains bare and steep, alternating the formidable granite formations with strata limestone, shale layers disrupted the banks of sandstone and volcanic cliffs, occido iron that appear, the valley has a unique charm, by rumors of the stream, the happy gardens that nuanced, elegant groups of white poplars, small vineyards which sometimes are seen as picking up its branches on the cliffs, the scattered olive trees and other fruit trees, the islands of short duration that occur in the channel variable, and small groups jumping goats graze on rough hillsides that dominate the landscape.
After going through some half-deserted sales, which serve to relieve the shots, we to around 36 km from Jaen to the town called Campillo de Arenas, of 1.900 inhabitants located in a small plain, which and the surrounding hills for any match is drawn general production of Andalusia, which consists of wine, oil, fruits and grains mainly.
Various farms and sales happen after, completing the transition from the center Sierra Morena to Granada, on the route, a total of more than 40.650 inhabitants, almost all belonging to the province of Jaen.
The night had come, quite dark, and it was midnight when we were walking on the main street of Granada.
The eight provinces of race Hispano-Arabic (Almeria, Cadiz, Cordoba, Granada, Huelva, Jaén, Malaga and Seville), which make itself the vast and mountainous region of Andalusia, including between the Sierra Morena, the Mediterranean and the Atlantic - have a total population of 2,921,102 inhabitants, the most industrious of Spain (general mass) after the Catalans.
The capitals of the eight provinces gathered 446,342 residents (the sixth and one-half of the population Andalusia) - and that figure correspond to the city of Granada 68,743 individuals.
If there to carve out a detailed comparative study of how population is distributed in Spain, there would be more of an interesting education.
Regardless of Catalonia, a country so exceptional, is, for example, a profound difference in the appearance and conditions of two regional statistics that are played: the Andalusia New Castile and Estremadura.
Geographically, the first of these divisions is quite inferior to the other, geographically, of Andalusia, in spite of the commercial advantage of their coastline, have a great disadvantage for New Castile and Estremadura.
In this region is much more equal ground, spontaneous, and own astonishingly fertile for various and highly valuable productions.
In Andalusia, with the exception of the plains of Seville the Vega of Granada, the valleys are very low in general, wherever the land is uneven, rocky, crossed by a labyrinth of hills, great hills, sharp hills and deep gullies.
Thus, the exploitable part of the floor and is very small Andalucías compared to its geographical range.
And HOWEVER, wherever they can grow some plants that can sustain production anyone see it appear in Andalusia, building up the smaller valleys or the more limited plains.
And as the land is broken by the prodigiously many inflections terrain, there has been a rare phenomenon in life appears all exploitable gaps in the country, but doomed by nature, temporarily isolation.
In the vast plains of Extremadura, La Mancha and the high Tajo, nature has allowed the accumulation and easy communication social masses, as well as continuity of very large-scale cultivation.
For my part I will say that the quick observation I confirmed these contrasts, rather than reading lots books, in my liberal beliefs.
Granada itself, compared with the historical Moorish Granada, is an eloquent testimony in favor of the doctrine of justice, tolerance and progress.
Located to the side setentrional gorgeous valley watered by the Jenil, at the foot of two high hills, spurs of the mountains dividing the Darro, which runs through a deep bed, Granada has one of the more positions quaint, but charming oriental taste that you have chosen in Andalusia Seat of capital.
Almost at the top forming the Sierra-Nevada southeast of Granada, the beautiful Jenil born, whose little waves and wide valleys have inspired so many poets; crosses the plain or famous Veya, which is 40 kilometers in circumference, and collects the water coming down from the mountains in the Dilao, the monachi, the Alfacar, the Darro and other streams that fertilize the country.
La Sierra east and south as a sort of semicircle, giving off a branch of mountains and hills whose base is a rare reclining as Granada poetic heights between two strands separate by the Darro.
One holds on its slopes superimposed Alhambra and Jeneralife, the other the westernmost, face it in a parallel line and gives entry to the chapels on and the seminar of Monte Santo and Albaicin strange neighborhood, populated by families of Gypsies.
The foot of the Alhambra and the city Albaicin extends on both banks of the Darro Jenil and right, down a slanted toward Vega.
Nothing stranger than the physiognomy of the city, simultaneously Gothic, Arabic and Gypsy - artist and manufacturer, - religious and voluptuous, - rich and ragged, - full of gardens and miseries-bella and horrible, - lively and cadaverous, - hope and debris at the same time.
Everything there is contrast - set most diverse types - the most complex features of social physiognomy - can be found.
If you see some streets and alleys spacious and bright, the bulk of the city is cut by dirty streets, winding, dark, paved with pebbles, very narrow, complicated maze, completely Moorish.
If you hear the clatter of passing the workshops or the noise of the looms or small factories of different objects, is also felt at every step the clamor of the bands of ragged and squalid beggars .-- If you admire the wonders divine art, feels a deep sadness to probe prostitution undermines some classes .-- If referred to the Catholic gathering, full of pomp and majesty, admiring the many details of the palaces of oriental voluptuousness appreciated .-- If Markedly, beautiful Andalusian awake the best race, read a history of miseries and crimes, persecutions and deep pain.
In the bronzed figure in the eye magnificent, savage, in the proud but sad smile ....
Gypsy To say that Grenada is the synthesis of history and Spanish-Arabic society, it is stated what is on their material structure that city.
Precious little detail in order the two civilizations, a strange set, ugly but very interesting, contradictory and sad and all framed in a wonderful part of natural beauties.
A theater, numerous barracks some institutes of education, charity and worship, medium industries, gambling, prostitution, - of anything and everything, this is the guy who offers the general mass.
In that there is anything in Granada to draw attention.
His interest is in the details, and in this respect is Granada most curious of the capital of Spain - Toledo and Seville but they are so interesting.
Thus, to gain a full picture of things, as an artist, it would need to reside months Whole Grain.
When you leave the labyrinth of dirty streets, or go down the sad neighborhood Albaicin, or are abandoned public cafes (poorly served but always crowded), or hotels or inns (where the guest is hungry for failure to settle with disgusting food), the stranger may find compensation in public places called the classroom.
If the bad taste is reflected in the fountains that adorn the main the pomp and splendor of this vast vault of greenery is unparalleled.
A vast hall outdoors more than 300 meters long and 40 wide, extends to the end Main Street between it and the Jenily the Darro.
I have not ever seen a vegetable Basilica comparable to that.
The sun can not penetrate it with his rays, and a walk around, drunk per thousand perfumes, between the rows of colossal elms and other trees, whose trunks are columns in the most sumptuous vault - and hobnobbing with groups of men and women whose faces is the Arabic expression - can not but evoke all the memories Granada's history.
Those women look hot and seductive smile, those dresses, colorful ones, other pompous and daring those floating mats that inevitably accompany their hours of laziness in Spanish, the distant echoes of instruments to invite to pleasure, the vast gardens extending thence Jenil, studded with jasmine, pomegranate, roses and carnations, which positively intoxicating aromas, warm breezes and rejoice the heart, and several incidents they call attention to the customs, everything seems to love the idea of ??burning, of strong passions, abandonment and the voluptuousness of the Oriental.
But the night comes and at nine o'clock that city no more moving, inciting strong emotions, it seems as if asleep.
I do not know if they make very poor homes or very good, I know is that vegetate.
Among the objects that attract public attention in the center of the city, deserve mention (Apart from the cathedral, then speak) not just some curious and some buildings churches old singular forms, but also: theater, museum and Sacatin.
There is for which ensure that Granada has its inevitable Spanish circuses: the bulls and the roosters.
The theater, but without any luxury, it is very nice, but often poorly served, as almost every theater in Spain, which plays to drama and comedy.
In Grenada, as in All cities in Spain, saw a notable vulgarity in most of the actors.
The bullfighter - the artist's death - is where you want elegant, beautiful, magnificent in its class.
The actor, with rare exceptions, is commoner, a brutal buffoon and not know how to interpret the noble inspirations of the poet.
The Granada Theater (work that is due to the Sebastiani French general, who ruled the country at the risk of Napoleon) saw perform operettas and dances of French style that I found supremely ridiculous.
The French exaggerated in Spain but does not produce cartoons.
No I've seen of choreography is nothing as funny as a Spanish dancing the bolero, the vulture or the cap, but I have not seen anything so ridiculous (in all Spanish cities) like those saucy peninsular invented by developments (unfortunately for the art) by dancers in Paris.
The body plump, vigorous, and turning the Spanish not provides air to the fantasies (almost pure spectacle) of the French dancer, who needs to invent a thousand fascinations and figures to conceal its thinness and ugliness and bear the same time agility and grace of gesture and movement.
Granada museum contains, among many other things insignificant, several beauties of the time of the Moors, and some paintings far superior.
In general, Andalusia a country rich in treasures of this kind, and after admirable in any museum in Madrid part of Spain can be found as beautiful pictures as Granada, Seville and other cities Andalusia.
One thing notable in Granada, in the Plaza del Campillo, dominated by the theater, it holds a monument dedicated to the memory of Spanish Talma, - the illustrious Máiquez Isidore, son Granada, as the artist Alonso Cano triple and the dramatic poet Lope de Rueda.
But this monument has not been raised by Spain, but by three artists, heirs of the genius of Máiquez: the two Romea and Matilde Diez.
The Sacatin, which I mentioned, is a curious Moorish building that gives its name to a neighborhood where its internal trade.
It is composed of a homogeneous group of buildings, linked, so as to form a single block, but divided by equal callejuelitas or corridors, which intersect at right angles, forming a network of regular lines.
