It is guessed that this decision was influenced by the disdain with which looked at the luxury displayed by some Indians in the furnishings in their homes.
The lounge, which is up to the dimensions, was superb, spacious, very high ceiling, occupied all the balconies in the street of St.
He kept much smaller than that Manin.
But what really stunned the public and offered to any number of comments and chufletas was the that D.
Pedro did, shortly after arriving in Madrid, in a religious ceremony.
Presented in the church with a white uniform and gold braid studded with beads, which should be to Grandee of Ronda.
By the time of the consecration at Mass, advanced with solemn step until the middle of the temple, which was free of people, drew his sword and began wield on against the four cardinal points, giving furious lunges and Claymore air.
The women were frightened, the children ran, the majority of men thought it was a fit of madness.
Only the more astute or scholars understood that it was in a symbolic ceremony and that those air Claymore Don Pedro was meant resolved, as professed gentleman who was a military order to fight all enemies of faith in any place in the world.
The only small newspaper that was published then Lancia every Sunday (today there are eleven, six and five weekly newspapers) gave him a press release that, with no little grace, made fun of him.
However, such public ridicule private, as noted above, could not amenguar the prestige of the illustrious hero enjoyed in the city.
Whoever believes in good faith over the beings around him, has far in advance so that they will be humiliated.
Peter, despite his ridiculous, was a cultured man, fond of literature and pushes a poet.
From time to time, and betrothal at any particular country or for the royal family, wrote a few tenths or triplets in a classic style, a little Gongora.
Although some people tried to persuade it's published, it never could kill it.
So sincere he professed disdain for all This reflects the democratic movement of our era and especially to newspapers, would rather have them manuscripts, known only to a few friends.
In Madrid I had some duels and be stopped Lancia one between him and a progressive political leader sent to this province, by intercession of the bishop and cathedral chapter.
When you reach forty, more or less, married an aristocratic lady, too, that Sarrió inhabited.
His wife died a year in childbirth.
Three years later he Amalia married again, lady Valencia something akin to it.
Peter had seen in Valencia when she was fourteen.
Marriage is pactose made ten years later by letter, before change of portraits.
It was sure that the will of the bride had been forced, and even stated that for some months had refused to share the thalamus with her husband.
Lancia was counted in with a wealth of details of the trip on the advice of a canon was Don Pedro with his wife to inspire confidence and shorten the path between the incidents and the descomodidad posed, the moral and material distance between them.
Fulfilled the prophecies of beating chapter and made all the ends of marriage, the sky would not bless yet.
Shortly after D.
Peter experienced the terrible stroke that paralyzed half body down, and since then, no business terms for the blessing, even though Providence was animated and best wishes. - We need a room - said warmly pressing the hand of the count. - Yes, yes, to see if it changes the fate ...
Moro is leading us boldly money - said a round-faced old man, fresh, clean-shaven, white hair and light eyes and tender.
Saleta and was called the hearing judge and evening regular Quinones's house. - Not so, Mr.
Saleta, not so much!
Missing three hundred to get even of what I lost yesterday - said the aforementioned, I was a young man open and friendly face. - Why have not called you to Manin? - Asked glancing Count smiling the famous butler, who, with his short pants, spiked shoes and green cloth jacket, dozing in an armchair.
The eyes of the three turned to him. - For Manin is a brute who can not play more than the brisca - said D.
Peter laughed. - And the tute - said the laborer, stretching roughly, opening a mouth of a fourth. - Well, the tute. - And the mountain. - Well, man, and the mountain too.
And they began to play without further notice of him.
The butler stopped again, saying - And the julep. - Well, Manin, shut up! ...
Do not be silly - he cried bitterly D.
And again dropped their formidable back in his chair, stretched his legs and closed his eyes for snoring.
The players looked up at Don Pedro with surprise and concern.
Ze Uzté zabe it too! - So said an old gentleman, although it would of fifty, which came at the time.
Enrique Valero, judge of the Court too, man pleasant demeanor, thin, expressive face, though extremely faded for life glad he had led.
As denounced his accent, the most closed and can ceceoso heard, was Andalusian province of Malaga. - Do not know everything, my friend Valero - Saleta calmly replied, - but I know well the story of my country and the specific references to my family. - What is about family zu Zuev ezo what, mate? - Because my family is descended from one of the most leading warlords who entered the Pontevedra province where the outbreak, as evidenced by several documents that are preserved on file in my home.
The players exchanged a cheerful look of intelligence with Valero. - Aha - said it between happy and angry .-- Now that the friend Zaleta rezulta ez a Zuev like a cathedral .-- Who had Penza, so rebajuelo and so tiny! - Yes, sir - he went the other, as if he had not heard, speaking slowly and firmly .-- The leader who gave birth to our family was called Rechila.
Great conqueror, extended his rule a lot, and I even appeared to reach in his travels to Extremadura.
Saleta continued unperturbed describing the discovery, shape, weight, each ornaments did not forget a detail.
And Valero while not looking away from him, shaking his head with growing irritation.
The blatant lie caused his colleague in the magistrate Andalusian sometimes feigned outrage, some real, always glad for the company.
Was so unusual that a bullying Galician dared exaggerated and liar in front of an Andalusian it, wounded in his pride and the privileges of his country, came at times to be angry, Saleta was wondering whether a fool or by those who had listened to him.
In fact the judge Pontevedra lie with so little grace and yet so firmly, that was a matter of wonder if it would be an arrant rogue impatient delighted in his friends. - Did you say that eze antepazao uzté zuyo has Come in to Eztremadura? - Finally asked Valero decided tone. - Yes, sir. - Pue I find, compare, which eztá uzté equivocao because zeno Renchila eze ... - Rechila. - Well, eze Rechila corn has gone there has ran Become the province of Malaga, but there will Zalía started to find a vandal who was head of one of miz azcendiente that ze I remember calling zi ...
ezpere a bit ...
ze called Matalaoza.
May well ezte Matalaoza, uncle was a mu mu bragao and bland, completely defeated him, made him and he had prizionero Become a waterwheel pulling that ze died.
Conzervan ze yet in any game basements peazo the typewriter.
Peter, James Moore and the Count de Onis had suspended play and laugh without any shawl. - No way.
Rechila is not out of Merida, who has won after a short siege - told Saleta no less or more disturbed. - Uzté Dispenza, friend, in the file of my game is documentoz which show that Zeno Renchila has come a little something for the province and Malaga, and that Zeno Matalaoza, my grandfather, by the line of mother or wanted deharle Dioz pa ma followed later. - Excuse me, friend Valero, I think you are wrong.
That should Rechila be different.
Among the Swabians have been several Rechila ... - Zeno No, no ...
The derrotao Rechila which my grandfather was the antepazao of uzté ...
Ze enzeguidita knew him by the accent.
And very seriously affected by uttering these words.
The joy of the players was becoming higher.
Saleta, accustomed to the ridicule of his colleague, not piqued or lost a point its irritating phlegm.
The shamelessness of this man to lie and then hold their lies was unprecedented.
When he saw the futility of further disputing, attended the game again.
Others did the same, although from time to time escaped them flow through your nose laughing.
Jaime Moro kept winning.
And he was cheerful and talkative, discussing each of the plays neatly.
He was a handsome young black beard trimmed, regular features, almond eyes free expression and soft, rosy complexion.
His father, who was the diocesan administrator in that province, died last year, leaving a regular farm, seventy or eighty thousand dollars, according to well aware.
This capital Lancia made him a real potentate.
I must not say that was the target of all the shots of girls of marriageable age, his ideal, the American dream.
Moro seemed little inclined to women.
Infinitely loved Mercury than Venus.
His love of gambling, all kinds of games, was so excessive that it could said that his entire life was devoted to her, I was born to play.
He lived alone, with housekeeper, valet and cook.
Rose up from 10:00 to 11:00, and after groom went to the cafe of Ms Romana, which was tasty aware company that of all the stories that ran through the population.
So casting aside this task it would get in the back dark, oily, greasy, with the smell of puff pastry down, and sitting to a corresponding table in all the decorations of the chamber, he began to play the Cup Jerez and pastries dominoes with his close friend D.
Baltasar Reinoso, one of many owners four or five thousand pesetas income residing in Lancia.
At two to eat.
At three Commercial Circle to start with three of the Indians, who formed the nucleus of that Recreation Society, the classic steel sheet, which is usually stretched to five.
