To meet the second objection, would need all of the evidence and rationale it gives the author because the first acquired some news that I got the diary Villarino was in navigation.
But this, if it is true that given by inaccessible mountains by those spot, I can not hit upon them, because they do not have to draw from their vast comprehension, science and literature, if not a disappointment in the physical, that can reason and be dealt with the most uncouth rustic.
The Indians of San Julian answer, that from the Straits, pulling the northern part, they are even for the brutes: noticed the same Super-intendant D.
Antonio de Viedma when he recognized the Santa Cruz River to its source [A] but should not be understood with the rigor that the author thinks, because only the is accessible by road we use for Mendoza to Chile.
They are also passable from Huechuhuehuem, or Catapuliché, on the Portillo, the Indians and cattle driving.
The give evidence to this claim is the standard reply of the Indian inhabitants of those spot, with whom I have asked repeatedly prolixity, news of which went checking with the findings of Villarino, and to be found near the river Diamond, livestock cattle and horses that the Indians had stolen them from the borders of Buenos Aires, to sell to Valdivia, where the consignment had been offered a year earlier, and as for having reported these infidels, when he came to Catapuliché, who had fallen Christian Valdivia, as a day Road, where he was, to try and adjust the purchase of it, giving individual signs of person [B].
All these tests are indeed his own: those of the author must be of ideas and references, which inequality is evident in the faith of a justification which is supported so legally.
But congratulations, I have to grant equality, which do not: in this case, we should not have happened to Valdivia to examine and verify those quotes that were a true testament of truth?
But what was it made?
Differ by a whole to the authority of the author, as if the inaccessible mountains, which was his imagination and discourse, were true.
Of course there is evidence advanced for and against the inaccessible and transit of ranges by Catapuliché, Huechuhuehuem to Valdivia, we should be in favor of the latter, Unless a physical disappointment sincere and true people do see the opposite.
No we must know that nature gives us two ways that I have proposed by water and by land to the plaza and the kingdom of Chile, at the proper time for not only I can navigate as shown at the place where he Villarino, but the gap Huechum-lauquen, or limit the source of the river, which is a more distant day's journey.
From this site Valdivia to throw the Indians three days by mule, by the harshness of the mountains, traffic very short, compared to half that by Mendoza to Chile, crossing us less expenses and other amenities.
