From the point of reunion of these two great rivers is to make a six-day voyage canoe to arrive at the confluence of the Beni River, which comes down from west to join on the left with the Mamore, which carries on its majestic course under the name of river de Madeiras [1].
The banks of the Mamore are already naked in this place of ancient forests, and all parties offer floodplain, where the plant breeding has been called the Spanish chuchio [1] and the lambaiva, whose leaves are whitish and cut into finger-like protruding on the tender green of the willows on the green or blue with the smooth.
Among the many palm species already known, covering more lofty terrain, stands a new, peculiar to this district, which is grown in abundance, particularly on the hillsides.
This plant, which the Brazilians give the name of vinte pes (twenty feet) is one of the most elegant of the palm family, their roots, that support the trunk, lower from the height of three yards, away from each other in proportion as they approach the ground: this is the circumstance that made you give the name under which it is known in the country.
The auction of the trunk smooth and steep, which usually comes at the height of fifteen to twenty beam, leaving for its large leaves everywhere gracefully trimmed in an elegant plume: sírvense Indians off to make rosary beads [2].
On the first day of the Mamore, are sighted several camps of Indians savages, and at each step are noted in the narrow canyons trails that go down to the river, particularly on the right bank, whose lands are higher.
It comes in the meantime to meet the Mamore, left, the river Iruyani, often furrowed by Cayuvava of Exaltation, sometimes rising to the west, up near the mission Reyes.
A little above, is also the mouth of Matucaré, on whose Itenes tribes inhabiting the banks that have formed at that point a sort of village beautiful plantings that grow maize, cassava and bananas: these warlike Indians make frequent raids on the dry time in the Mission District of Exaltation in order to acquire weapons and tools.
When the rains that fall into the Mamore sources are somewhat heavy, they accrete considerably waves, dragging more trees than usual; so are some areas, particularly in the middle of the river, so covered vegetable offal look great floating islands.
To have to fight less against the current, always pays Orrillo it is opposed, but the windings multiplied formed by the river, forcing surfers to cross very often on one side to the other, which continues to be extremely dangerous, as the slightest collision with these floating logs can immerse the flimsy canoes: but the wisdom and skill with which the pilots and rowers execute their maneuvers in difficult times, triumph over obstacles sludge.
In this transition are found always tangled woods, in which there is a large tree, usually have enough thirteen and fifteen yards in circumference.
The Spanish have given the Higueron name [1], as a sort of giant fig tree, but in the province of Santa Cruz most well known under the bibosi.
Indians used the bark of this tree to be shirts, and flat roots, which are divided into vertical sheets are naturally draw tables that serve to cut the boxes in which the Espido goods in the state-owned.
All these forests, inhabited by a prodigious diversity of plant almost unknown in her womb also harbor tigers and other wild animals.
The banks of the Mamore present at every step picturesque landscaping, and them that the variety of the vegetation makes it look more cheerful.
The low spots are always covered sensory pink flower, while the driest thing Parages abundant plant whose stems are shaped like a fan, and are crowned with tufts whitish, waving uniformly at the whim of the wind contrast with mimosa blossoms, with lambaiva of sugar clusters, or with vines hanging all over the interlaced branches with palm trees.
Any wonder the traveler who passes through the middle of those lovely borders, where his eyes peacefully rests on a very lavish vegetation, or to stop They look forward to these colonies of Kingfisher, who out of their boxes hidden in holes in sandy cliffs, still by far the direction of the canoes.
On the third day have to face one of the greatest challenges confronting the Mamore for navigation, as there is a point where its current very narrow, is to be more impetuous, and form a swirling funnel too fast for canoes can save them without venturing too: such is the violence sweeping the water passing above them, the weaker vessel wavers and wobbles as if it had hit against a rock.
