European states have need for this kind of reciprocal trade, to use every a special productions.
In this regard, and in comparison to the small to big, the highest commercial future issues may apply to the Republic of Bolivia; presenting it in its various provinces all areas, all temperaments, and may lead to the promotion of industry produce all that other peoples and countries of the world.
Meanwhile, the first step to be taken for the advancement and improvement of the province of Caupolican, and to make her readily acquire the degree of commercial importance to which it is intended, is the establishment of channels of communication with the provinces the interior, and also that of women who must mediate between the various points inhabited.
Is easy to open on every mountain trails not much cost to the transit of mules because the stones (the most accurate material) are at hand, not so demanding other conservation of these methods but a slight care.
In places where it has established this, over a considerable space of miles, the abominable system of palisades or log crossing, it could build roads or stone embankments, and to prevent that drains these to the continuous passage of beasts, to fill with rain water, give a convex shape and open a small ditch on each side for those spills, as practiced in the construction of highways across Europe.
These paths indicate not need an excessive width, and therefore does not require great expense, to more of this, the imposition of a Peage right, nothing burdensome for their reasonableness bystanders, would cover anticipated expenditures easily from the Government.
Engineers in the field of bridges and roads, currently practicing in the Republic, may moreover, in view of local resources, take over the most economic means as may be necessary to establish as soon as possible, with the cooperation and goodwill of the Indians, these vias communication, the only means of stimulating trade v industry, and civilization turn of the province.
Or as will be credible that, having at his disposal a vehicle of such importance, a river as mighty as the Beni, no use is made up this, to go from Ysiamas to Cavinas, but petty rafts, while account more than a century and a half since that Moxos sailing in canoes?
It is therefore very unlikely that such Caupolican backward state in even relatively to the neighboring provinces, not from not checked lack of business relationships.
And actually going to talk about the province Caupolican, to a Potosino for example, is dealing with a thing that only you know the name, known as those of China and Turkey, but not for the world is after him there passed.
With media navigation as simple as you can imagine what will become Cavinas, Ysiamas and Tumupaza when sailing vessels or steam transport their products, in quantities the more weight you will, both to near the river Tuyche Apollo, as to a short La-Paz shot by rivers and Bogpi Mocetenes.
It suffices, however, to cease from then the sad servitude of the Indians to engage in the navigation of boats, but so that The construction of these were comfortable and not expensive, it would need the government to do intelligent men come from Europe in art, in order that, saving unnecessary costs, could lead to the natives in the building, the weapons and how to make use of such vessels.
Without this precaution, the inexperience of the people can still slow, long, the execution of a measure that is of prime necessity for improving the province.
I could say a word here about the benefits that are reserved to the province with the navigation of the river Beni to the Amazon, down then up the sea to make his way to Europe, but, as I have to touch this point when discussing the province Moxos, which is also crossed by the river Beni, then let the exposition and examination of important issues.
Réstame talk about some other improvements necessary to the welfare of the inhabitants of Caupolican.
The means to restore your health to the country, cutting off the evil caused by the cold of South wind so deadly for the creatures of the inland towns, as well as the ravages caused by the smallpox among the elderly, when the classrooms of Medicine Republic provide such a number of disciples who can put the state in each province an optional fixed and paid enough so that the question of the priests Ausilio to preserve the appalling infant mortality, and spread the application of the vaccine, together with other health condoms.
Missionaries learned and zealous could also, with the support of the Government, take responsible for the conversion of savages breeds found in the north and north-west of Tumupaza, Isiamas and Cavinas, creating small towns, where these Indians took a liking to the benefits of social life, thus contributing greatly to the general good of the country.
Currently, the immoderate use of spirits such as brandy, which in religious festivities to drink too much, brings pecuniary ruin of indigenous the great deterioration of his health, and, therefore indispensable, the disorder in customs.
Would be easy, however, remedy evils of this nature, imposing heavy rights to the introduction of such harmful liquids, or taking any other measures his good sense dictates to the Government for there is nothing so pitiful as to see how much damage excesses similar to social advancement, morally and physically brutalizing those who are left dominated by them.
Finally, the establishment of a school of first letters in each parish, as which has now been judiciously urgency felt by the Government, will help spread slowly throughout the Republic the national language, completely extinguished native languages, used even in places where, on the other hand, the extent of trade relations altering them go from day to day.
While these languages ??still exist, there will be a powerful obstacle to the onward march of civilization.
MOXOS Province Division and extent.
Moxos province, one of the most spacious in Bolivia, hugging herself as both ground as one or two departments of the mountainous regions, occupies the northern extremity the republic and the department of Beni, representing an oblong surface, which is directed of northwest to southeast, are between 10 and 16 degrees south latitude and 64 and 70 west longitude meridian of Paris.
Tijamuchi River rises in the Eastern Cordillera, west of the last tributaries Securi river, the river receives water Taricuri and crosses the plain of the province by the northeast to the Mamore, which meets as 14 degrees latitude, a little above Mission San-Pedro
