The girl drew back frightened. - Do not worry, miss.
He served in the past to wine cellar.
The girl did not respond.
Pedro, disguising the letter, an anonymous letter. "The girl you've collected six years ago is the daughter of his wife and a gentleman who frequents home and who you call your friend.
Peter was in front of it and read it.
His face fell sharply and pulled cadaverous pallor. - Who do you write? - Naturally she asked.
The Grandee recovered immediately and folding up the letter and keeping it, he retaliated by efforts to ensure his voice trembling: - Nothing, a complaint of mine who recommended that you have been laid off ...
Afternoon Jacoba mysteriously came and gave him a ticket from the count. - What you want from me man? - Surprised and asked scornfully. - I do not know, ma'am.
Wrote the letter in my house and there wait response.
Count the ticket said: "Amalia, I know our daughter is in danger of death.
For heaven's sake in this world for the salvation of your soul, grant me an interview.
He was thoughtful for a moment, took a few laps around the room, completely abstracted; approached the balcony and looked out the windows.
At last he said, turning to means and with great Drying: - Well, tomorrow when mass. - I asked with great interest by the child. - Tell that remains the same.
Funky's intrusive, and she remained a long time looking at the street, through the glass, without seeing it.
From seven o'clock the next day Luis was waiting in the shack Jacoba.
There was no more than a kitchen on the ground floor and a living room with bedroom above, so low Count ceiling with a hat that played in the ceiling.
In this parlor was furious rides with his hands in his pockets, looking carefully at every moment by the curtains of only window I had.
Until nine did not attend the queen.
The blanket was thrown reach through the eyes, the prayer book in hand and a rosary hanging from the wrist with a firm step and calm, as if it came to giving some orders to his former protege.
When she heard his voice in the kitchen, turned over his heart, he trembled like a leaf and was deleted completely the words he had prepared. - How are you, Count? "- She said to come very naturally, holding out a hand. - Well, how about you?
He lifted his head as if surprised to be heard and answered staring tutear: - Perfectly. - And the girl? - Something better.
Despejose hearing this the face of the gentleman.
Shone a ray of joy in his eyes and said holding hands with his former mistress and pulling her to the sofa poor straw was there. - Sit, Amalia.
Only you have penetrated so far into it, you've probed and know their blues, their weaknesses, and tenderness.
My beard and bleaching in several places, as you are watching.
He rested his elbows on his knees and put his head in his hands.
After a long silence up, saying: - Well, what do you demand of me
