Therefore, without renewal of the materials the body, without eating, sleeping, drinking, dressing, eternally the same, with nothing to think about, with nothing to do - outside yawn grass - without love, without hatred, no children, no day without night, no good without evil, no thought and no action, ie without conduct - the most boring sort of life that has been possible to imagine, or hungry and thirst, and sleep and I hate heat and cold night and inexhaustible, that is, the more absurd.
Since life is unlimited imaginary imaginary construction, real life, with its joys and sorrows transient, is nothing but a prologue or introduction to the happiness or perpetual misery, with the result that "the dead are the living and the living are Dead, in the words of A.
France, or rather, is a trocatintas, because the living can work in the other world, bringing souls in purgatory, for example, and the dead can do all things of this world, to provide her husband with "the daughters of Mary that it San Expedito ask, when in a hurry.
But, since the major objectives of man, intoxicated with terrors and hopes for the afterlife, they came to be out of this world, this world was out of the spotlight men, and therefore, natural laws, which have provided the wonderful resources of modern civilization in the middle ages were outside the scope of human understanding fully absorbed by the anguished concern entities and things supernatural dazzled by the mirage of the other world to give back to real life and the front to the imaginary life, believing that the highest and noble ambition of man was to "sit eternally at the right hand of God the Father ", after his death, which was stupid degrading and vile all longing for happiness before he died.
And the real world, stigmatized as one of the four enemies of the soul, was ignored until the dawn of modern times as it spread beyond the monomania of which made medieval Europe a mere variant of contemporary China, as if this man living for the dead man lived in it for after death.
GOD'S WORD In summary, our mental ancestry, gradually highlighting the patchwork of religions, theogonies mythologies and the distant past, came to be worded as follows: God had made men for heaven, but so to is lost in the land, and the devil, seizing the opportunity by the horns, had won for hell.
So to not be alone in heaven, God came down to earth, chose from among all the people to yes and dictated its terms, which were forgotten, so later he sent a ad hoc child a second message.
The official guardians of the first word of God ignored the God child carrier the second, he was arrested, tried, sentenced and executed by infringing on the laws of God the Father.
But others picked up on it and built the church, the house of God the Son, against the synagogue, the house of God the Father.
God spoke to Moses between lightning and thunder, if not yet known rights of man and the duties of the father who had children and wives, slaves, donkeys, oxen and goats to explode, killing or sale, had spoken as a Jewish patriarch, the king selfishness, establishing, first, the obligation to love him above all things of the world, which still must be abandoned by those who want to serve in all rule, the most burdensome of all the charges that have weighed on the conscience of man, duty has produced more human than sticks, torture and killings, more tears and suffering, more misery and more customary imbecility.
And because God had committed the indiscretion of talking, the man had to be silent in perpetuity or speak only to repeat like a parrot with no feathers, the Divine Word, who became the Nessus robe of human intelligence.
And thirty-two generations of men passed under the Christian era in poverty, ignorance and barbarism chronic, uttering or hearing only the sacred word, fulminated from the pulpit, volcano hazards, in perpetual eruption punishment in this world and the other for the sinners and infidels, an inexhaustible source imaginary terrors to implant in the heart of the elect for heaven horror indispensable to life and the fear of inevitable death.
And condemned by the Church with terrible punishment in the afterlife and the civil power penalties atrocious for the bereaved in this, the suicide, which has been in far Japan, as it was in ancient Rome, a limit to suffering and therefore to human cruelty, disappeared from European customs and arrive, then the suffering and cruelty to the maximum consecutive its extent possible, was a hundred times at once, for no additional invention of the instruments of torture, the power of despots on the temporal and spiritual believer placed between the devil and hell, and forced to surrender with all lowliness and humiliation and penalties rather than face the awful eternity.
God had thought, and thought of God - non plus ultra, in itself - paralyzed from a stroke reason and human thought, then, as the all-powerful, God was not obliged to be reasonable, nor fair, neither good nor right, and whatever it was, the men were obliged to blindly obey, on pain of eternal damnation, as the pope, nor is bound to be the wisest of men and also have the right to be infallible.
Human reason and void for the purpose of human life came to be on the understanding believer of the appendix in the intestine of civilized man: a superfluous body, since he had no specific function.
And then came to Christianity those dark and miserable ten centuries of age average, divine thought strict diet, in which human intelligence gave no single step forward, stuck in the mental paralysis of the Muslims and the same circumstances: Everything was thought out, everything was resolved, it was all said everything was written in advance by the prophets and apostles by the dictation or inspiration of God, and sanctioned with horrible punishment.
Some Protestant sects, removing seats and making prostrations, initiated input human dignity in the temple, four centuries before it was abandoned in Spain and America the traditional obligation of the child daily, to ask the father's blessing hands in supplication and kneeling on the floor.
In some sections of the American behind, yet, when they have God with bells through the streets to sell to a dying man, passersby and neighbors, prostrate knees, as the subjects of the Eastern potentates to the passage of their respective despot.
At the height of its lethal effect on the human spirit, the doctrine of the flattening of living for the enlargement of the dead, so considerably lessened capacity to Christian thought and action in this world, the Arabs and the Turks, coming out of your barren deserts to promote a new and fresh on another sliver fanaticism same trunk, entered Christianity as wolves in sheep herd of sheep, and took a clean sweep from Asia Minor, Egypt and North Africa until further into the Pyrenees, Austria and Poland, where they were stopped by a rest of human energy, bran providentialism flooding in those towns in the northwest, which were in worship Aboriginal individual manhood on faith in themselves, the yeast of the practicality, which sprouted later, the ingredients of self-government, self help and self control, first outbreaks of human capacity for human life and human initiative, which posed to the Netherlands and England in the seventeenth century the rule of the world was the sixteenth of Spain, twice emaciated by the eight centuries of Muslim and Catholic fatalism while, on the faith in the help of Jesus and Mohammed and the four subsequent fatalism pure Catholic, on trust in the help of the Virgin and the saints guardians.
All evil afflicted humanity during that terrible time: arbitrary power, the most cruel and devoid of remorse, a Treasury occlusal, who finally exterminated the wealth, pestilence, that became endemic and depopulated whole provinces, and, to crown all, a series of invasions of barbarian hordes that swept over the country as a consuming fire.
It was at this age that the foundations of Christian theology were settled - the theology of councils and parents .-- The conception of God, his relationship and dealings with the world was outspoken in a society groaning under oppression, misery and sorrow without example.
No need to say, was an age of great and almost morbid cruelty games circus was a constant discipline inhuman passions ... ... "The cruelty, injustice and arbitrary power were too familiar to be shocking, too consistent to have them by the transient and accidental.
The world saw dark was taken as a forecast model and ideal world beyond the grave.
Ran to his edicts through space and time, his punishment was eternal and whatever it was, his justice could not be discussed.
Did not the potter power over the clay to make the same piece a vessel of honor and another for dishonor? "which has probably contributed more to the human misery than any other man speech output.
For nearly 1,500 years of human consciousness did not feel shocked by it.
Since the birth of Arminian theology has been a gradual and growing revulsion feelings, and now he says flatly that "the potter no right to be angry against their pitchers.
If different had wanted to make them different. "Claims an "omnipotent demon wishing to be completed" as all-merciful, when exerting the most perverse cruelty, are no longer allowed in shocked silence.
But if great difficulty of hell and eternal punishment was happily overcome, there remain, in the whole scheme of Christian redemption, moral iniquities and detours that no man well of this, whatever their religion or theology, would be guilty.
The notion that God wanted to be prompted by the death of Christ is totally innocent low natural barbarous ages rude when costly sacrifices were a recognized to appease angry gods, but repellent now.
Hardly the most depraved man, in his right mind, would accept the punishment of an innocent person instead of that would have offended.
A high-spirited man suffer almost anything rather than face such enormity. "The idea is barbaric, well worthy of that conception of justice of the Chinese happy If the player gets an individual to operate, but indifferent to who is to blame or not.
However, this cruel and barbaric notion is central to the Christian religion, at least I understand that not yet been found to be out of writing.
When they have their eternal role Esplanade tormenting souls in hell, they have to clarify their foreign temporary distractions on earth, and explain how they can be allowed by a merciful God.
For an angel fallen, extensive skill, subtlety and malice, he is permitted to tempt men and women, even children, to commit sin, away from Christ, jeopardizing his hopes of paradise.
And he who allows this, is supposed to detest sin.
If I had desired that abound, what else could have done to stop the Archfiend, aided by legions of lower hell, go like a roaring lion seeking someone to devour, with constant access men, even to the inside of your mind, whispering evil thoughts, stimulating, and yet, often isolated by holy prayer, always renewing its attacks on poor souls, till the last moment of mortal agony, triumph more often than failing in drag to his place of torment?
The request of Christ, "not induce us into temptation but deliver us from evil, "has never been heard or has never been conceived.
We are always induced to temptation, we are never free from evil on this side of death's door.
A being supernatural human happiness sank in paradise and brought sin and death the world, is appointed to the office to tempt men, at all times, in all places during life; able to get into the minds of his victims and pervert his soul in society and solitude, in the dream, even in prayer, capable of taking all the costumes, even appear as an angel of light.
The most artful seducer and vile human is limited in terms of time and opportunity to corrupt the innocent.
Now, a parent or guardian to allow children to associate with poor charge characters would be justly condemned as lacking the sense of duty and humanity.
But God allows something infinitely worse, for all the difference going from an immortal spirit the most profligate of the tempting land.
However, it is understood that the father heaven sees this and much worse every hour and every minute of the day sees the young, the weak, the destitute, robbed by a supernatural tempter, his own child, his rebel angel entirely wrong and evil, and sees him succeed in his company to ruin souls.
Hence, theologians have always distinguished, as Buckle says, for his deep knowledge of things that we know nothing.
This is also why the dogmas of the past to save the soul is the future have to swallow integers, as the castor oil capsules, for which chews, vomits and loses the drug: "The first thing that has disgusted me to the religion which professed to seriousness of a solid and consistent spirit is the universal condemnation of those who know or ignored, says Mme.
Roland, in his memoirs.
When nourished by history, I had faced the extension of the world, the succession of ages, the march of empires, the virtues public, the mistakes of many nations, it seemed petty, ridiculous, outrageous, the idea an operator that delivers to eternal torment to those countless individuals, weak construction their hands, thrown on the ground amid the many dangers and night of ignorance of which have suffered so much already.
I'm embarrassed about this article, it is clear, "I'm not also on someone else?
From the moment that a Catholic has made this argument, the Church can consider it lost.
But is that those enormities represent the ideal of justice of the ages preceding present civilization.
