Repentance had been in Recently a vague wish, thanks to the fatigue of his love and fear further divestment inspired him to hell.
Now it became true longing.
You'll make very lazy.
One day the lady was alone in his cabinet.
It had dropped into a chair.
Amalia's eyes flashed suddenly.
There awaited moment arrived.
Reigned in the party, while Following this stage, a significant silence.
Soon after, unable to master the discomfort he felt, the count dismissed. - The business of Louis does not appear at all well - said late Manuel Antonio in a group who retires by Altavilla Street, where they were Maria Josefa, the Pensioner and his daughter Jovita .-- The Fernanda married, if he gets to perform, it must cost much trouble. - Do you think Maria Josefa ?...-- asked to pull his tongue. - Mother! ...
Do not know Amalia like me? - What must be based on the marriage of Amalia Luis? - Asked Jovita, who as maiden, but had turned thirty-two patent suit him do his candor. - Ay!
Spoke hours and hours without getting tired of the smallest things, for the sake of being so close to listen.
Fernanda chatting with all the joy of his heart, heal the timidity of his devotee, On the contrary, enjoy seeing the childish efforts that avoided confessing his love, knowing that once she gave the signal would be delivered bound hand and foot.
The moment finally arrived.
One day the beautiful widow decided to declare it.
They spoke of marriage of remarriage.
Luis began to startle, to give their views trembling voice, trying to escape the conversation.
Fernanda suddenly said with perfect calm and resolute tone: - I will not return to marry a second time.
He turned pale.
The face is so sad that the girl, barely repressing a smile, yet repeated with higher resolution: - I will not marry a second time ...
The count looked haggard. - Is it really so? - Finally asked with a trembling voice. - And so true! - "She said smiling at him. - Give me that hand, Fernanda. - Take it, Luis.
They are strongly shook for a moment.
The count got up without saying another word.
When he got home, I wrote a long letter of six sheets painting with vivid colors his passion, giving fervent thanks, calling himself unworthy worm three or four times.
The marriage was arranged for when the year of mourning was over.
It was two months.
Decided secrecy and that the ceremony would be held either in Lancia.
A few days before it would default to Madrid shortly after he would gather him, and the court would together forever.
In the villages is very difficult to hide anything: a wedding project impossible.
By intensity of each pair of eyes look becomes a hundred pairs, by virtue of noise, each ear a hundred ears.
In His Steps, in their eyes, in the way of greeting and farewell lacienses ingenious as the real wizards guessed what they thought, was exactly the progress of those relationships that were touched to the quick of the heart.
One evening, passing Manuel Antonio in front of the gloomy abode of the count, striding out the girl with a cardboard box in his hands.
The nose felt queer smell of hunting, winds took a moment and followed her. - Bye, Laura - she said before her passing.
And turning suddenly asked him casually: - How is your love? - The count is not bad. - Ah!
Let me see, I also I have to buy.
The maid opened the box and began to examine queer content. - They are very fine.
Then the count is still not good.
Want the entire coast that are of silk, and even though I walked all the shops, there are none.
But the queen was so insistent, he was so expressive and family after a while raised disgorge what he had inside. - Well, look, I can not tell what's fixed point, but I think he married and soon.
The other day I heard a few words to the Countess ... - What word? - Said the housekeeper, as their son was, would spend a season on the Farm.
Then, looking through the keyhole, I saw mourn.
In addition, Fray Diego was yesterday at home ...
Not only knew without a doubt they got married, but where there to perform the ceremony.
Embarrassed by news so soon capital and willing to relieve of that weight, he began to think about who would be most effective.
His thought was right Amalia.
To the palace of Quiñones straightened, then, his petite, graceful steps.
Found the lady sitting in his cabinet, without light, delivered without certainly one of those intense and painful meditation for some time that the embargoed.
Manuel Antonio was jovial and talkative, he tried to cheer his best, attracting new blood to her heart sore for the stabbing was more painful.
Requested chocolate roistered took it nicely: Amalia came to forget their worries.
But dropped slightly, with infinite art, art a woman who has only reinforced by the male talent.
The only thing he felt was not being able to see her face.
But very clearly warned the wreckage of the explosion at the sound of the voice in the cold hand to say goodbye.
Amalia was standing rigid, immobile, long time.
Apoyose in the shade of crape to watch the street and shattered.
He tried to open his desk to take the knob of the essence, but he too turned the key and broke the lock.
Left the room and wandered through the darkened corridors and stairways, with uncertain plant as a ghost.
Far away he saw a bright spot and headed toward him involuntarily like a butterfly.
It was the dining room was already lit.
Sitting at the table, assembling a shepherds of mud, remnants of its past wealth was Josephine.
The lamp shade live cast light on his head and gold peel like an orange
