XII The next day I ate at my Aunt Medea with Don Benito and Uncle Ramon.
Did the chronicle dance before sitting down to eat, but by occupying our seats, the conversation ranged the subject.
My aunt had had a furious quarrel that day in the Philanthropic Society I do not know what purpose bazaar that his colleagues had allowed to dispense entirely it.
To hear us talk about the dance, we were forced to keep quiet, he directed two or three sentences hurtful my uncle, having been allowed to attend the club and began to tell their journey.
It seems that this had been a field of Agramante: the emotion of my aunt had been made three times a vote and three times he had been rejected.
Furious, as she knew only be when stung his rage, had left the company with his hat all bent, roaring like a lioness, with her skirt tucked up, and on foot, with short, quick step, he had arrived home without interrupting the colossal series of curses that had been fired from his hated mates.
My aunt was sitting at the table without appetite, excited as ever because of the altercation I just tell without details.
His eyes, more congested than usual, shone in a sinister way.
My Uncle Ramon went from a peaceful mood to a complete annihilation, struck under fire those feline eyes.
The broad face of my aunt revealed the startling reflection of your veins drowned by waves a thick blood lazy and motionless.
When sitting at the table he had assaulted a thousand discomforts unknown to her: hot flashes momentarily that his cheeks reddened lax fire blows to the eye, stabbing pains in the neck, lightning, obscuration, beats and whatnot vague forebodings of a sudden attack crossed prick your imagination and making it cry out from time to time with some desperate agitation: - Jesus God!
For him, the moderation of the fierce nature of his consort was concerned a few pounds of salt from England, a drug that, given his faith in its effects, would have saved a thousand disappointments, reestablishing a glimpse of the tranquility of home.
Moments after the altercation, Aunt Medea had been attacked suddenly abundant evacuation of blood from the nose, but in a paroxysm of his anger, trembling nervously of anger, had been content with loud sucking in abundance and lots of water salt right arm tightly tied or put in the back of his head impellers lustful proverbial fat key therapeutic counseling popular.
From time to time he ran his hands through my eyes, in which he said felt an enormous weight; was compressed temples, where pounding your arteries or wet with water glass that freckled face and flat, under which burned a volcano of hatred and future projects of revenge.
My uncle Don Benito and I we continued our program of abstention immutable force, silent and reverent, respectful eating with that moderation which is confused with hunger modestly disguised as an appetite discreet.
There was no sound but the rustling rabid jaws tiburonianas My Aunt Medea, with some evil pleasure, yet full of delight, he imagined crush the skull of one of its rivals in the bread coscorron innocent gnawing their molars and shy and almost silent chewing of those feared likely to hurt the ears Mrs.
Don Benito tried, however vainly, to open topics of conversation, but it was in vain, the attempt would not start.
My Aunt Medea returned to his imprecations, threw a challenge furious rivals, the apostrophe in a thousand ways and raising a clenched fist, I swear revenge as a witch possessed by divine wrath.
My aunt took up positions, but when standing up, he felt something strange, something terrible going through your head, wanted to step and sank down on the pavement. - Jesus will protect him! - Uncle Ramon said, opening his eyes wide to see it fall, - and we over the terrible palsy, and ran to help his consort who had fallen senseless at the foot of the table, making a strange noise with his mouth full of foam.
Don Benito and I had run at the same time to assist my aunt.
His appearance was truly frightening; had fallen struck by a violent rush of blood; was unconscious, unresponsive, relaxed and completely immobilizes.
It was an inert mass, in which only the persistence of breathing and heartbeat that we perceive, testified that life was not extinct yet.
My uncle cried out for a doctor, vinegar and mustard plasters, and while they are applied abundantly in Cyclopean legs of the lady, Don Benito and I ran for all doctors in the neighborhood.
The ladies of the neighborhood, some of which were from the family relationship, immediately attended to learn of the despair of my uncle.
All of them continued poultices applications in the calves, in the neck, in the soles of the feet, thighs and arms, cut off his clothes and placed in his bed.
Going down the stairs with Don Benito to fetch a doctor, we collided with Alexander Brown in the same front door. - What is it, child, what happens?
the whole neighborhood is abuzz ... "The house is on fire ?...-- us he asked. - On the contrary, I think it puts out the fire ...
Your employer appears to have just burst - answered Don Benito with the most perfect calm. - Who? "The tiger? ... !...-- Finally said the brown with the accent of a man who vents.
We returned at once, we had gone two or three blocks and we only found five physicians who were provided with great satisfaction to our appeal.
His breath was rattling and excruciating, to each breathing, cheeks, deprived of strength, were left unmade passively after returned to become lax and lazy. - Smoke the pipe - one of the doctors said in a low voice - this is very characteristic.
My uncle heard the remark and he imagined the doctor wondered if the lady had the habit of smoking, it responded with great astonishment at the audacity of the man: - No, sir, how do you imagine a woman of this class? ...
or a pipe or anything - added allowing certain movements of unexpected energy.
One of them introduced a feather in the throat.
My aunt, insensitive, showed no signs of feeling.
The doctor made an distaste. - You must mudarle bed - added ... - Ah!
yes - my uncle said with a grimace forced to hide a deep sorrow, - poor thing known how serious it is!
Another of the doctors came to the ears of my uncle and asked him a question. - Pfs! ...
Brown told me yet it was possible and that ... - Ah, yes - the doctor concluded that certainly was a history amagado pathological my uncle's family, - yes, Dr.
At this time they approached the other peers.
Had completed its review and were to hold query.
Have little to say about the sick, such was his serious condition.
According to opinion unanimously, it was a cerebral hemorrhage in its most terrible form.
Always continued breathing laborious, the pupils very extensive and insensitive to the action of light, and liquids just drank, stayed in the throat causing painful throes those that impress both.
This last symptom was fatal omen.
My uncle was shocked: his wife was dying slowly with no mention of recognizing when he approached his bed. - Do you have a high fever? - Dared to ask one of the doctors who came out first the query. - No, sir, no, on the contrary, its temperature is rather low.
However, it is probable now begin to rise much, if, as unfortunately we fear, it ends badly.
Is in a coma - he said, trying to confuse my uncle with a confusing technicality - is a so apoplectic cerebral hemorrhage paralyzed. - Jesus help me and encourages me!
Don Benito, who was next to the bed, looked extinguished with a coldness that colossus perfect.
My uncle did not dare approach the edge of the bed, the doctors had separate insurance and the outcome. - Come, sir - my uncle said one of them ...
My uncle came trembling, and almost dragged reluctant to duty ...
the approach back: the dying had a terrible aspect: the face was bruised, the breathing was difficult and cavernous. - The priest! - Some of the bystanders shouted as doctors leaving the room.
He went to bed a fat monk, dressed in bright colors, impassive as a seal, fat as a pig, his face flattened by the stigma of gluttony and carnal desires, thick mouth like a satyr, stupid eye, ear of bat, red cheeks like a clown.
Opened between fat and fleshy hands a book whose pages illuminated a puppet with a candle, and erupted on the body in barbarous Latin and some prayers nasal with the staggering irresponsibility of a parrot.
After he retired a few steps from bed, made a gesture to my uncle to come over; and at that moment, my Aunt Medea still glared at her husband, opened his mouth, sputum a blood clot and over ...
As women began to make preparations to dress, and I took Don Benito my uncle in the room.
Was observed at the time the face of my old comrade, - the comic solemnity that strove to maintain an air gave Mephistopheles.
My uncle looked at him without understanding it, but it was suspicious enough to explain that Don Benito was not as desolate as the occasion demanded it.
Celebrate you, friend, the largest anniversaries of his life ...
And my uncle could not contain himself; got rid of Don Benito and running to the bed, got into it and deposited on the soft feather pillow that buried his face, a smile of deep, voluptuous joy, he could no longer contain within itself.
At twelve o'clock, my aunt was placed in the coffin of rosewood that Alexander had brought.
He had closed his eyes and mouth, but always kept his face gesture threat that was characteristic, and the Holy Christ, that squeezed mechanically between waxed livid hands and seemed like the attitude of an armed sentry to doze the case of a surprise.
The female mulaterío house and neighborhood, had invaded the room: there were plenty around the coffin two or three who took turns kneeling mulatto on.
Clear is that the room had been covered in an instant and merino crepe black in honor of its illustrious owner.
The news of his death had spread through the city, and as their influence in large social, despite the political disasters of the deceased party, was of long standing, the house was full the night of the eminences of the past, dethroned by this.
His party still believed in him: he was always great orator, the great diplomat, the great journalist, the great lawyer, the largest Argentine parties.
My aunt's death had shocked Medea.
A burial shaft in Buenos Aires need not be described: the employer knows funeral tastes of the big city, in which prevails the large village, the convoy has to do Street parade in Florida: there is no street to go to the Recoleta, and if anyone get the idea to change the itinerary, it would be difficult for the dead or dead being of the aristocracy, or especially of high politics, protesting resurrected the variation of the route.
My aunt had been very religious, although recently the victim of a parent Piarist who had graciously removed several thousand dollars, his fervor for the friars and puppets partners ran their political enthusiasms: so that at his funeral attended all main parish clergy, most correct, and one delegation from each Guild: Franciscans, Dominicans, etc., incorrect under the terms of personal hygiene.
Among this crowd of black ravens and browns, not missing a tribune ultramontane pedantic adequacy stuck, he sibilant and hollow, great literary mummy, filled with Blair and Herman, Gongorism specimen of Spanish, who sat in the carriage of mourning, as if they had nailed to a stake, he maintained his solemn seriousness to it with the utter desolation that caused the death of that old whose virtues were at the end couples with sincerity of their religious beliefs.
Leading the group was the same dignity as we have seen beside the bier, with its carnival uniform and his imperturbable face colorinches seal.
How could there be measured, along with daubs of native marble works, imbecility and human pride.
There pompous tomb of a rancher ...
many miles of land, many cattle, hides and wool have been raised that mausoleum which is neither that of Moreno, nor the Garcia, nor warriors, nor of the great men of letters.
There the royal tomb of a miser, beyond that of an idiot ...
