Immediately was put into execution the marriage having been given blessings D.
Diego de Villaescusa, Dean of Jaen.
Practiced with the greatest solemnity and magnificence the usual ceremonies, went to Antwerp, and thence to Brussels, where they were full of congratulations, and where they had arranged to his arrival the people of this province many festivals, which were the young couple enjoying a long time.
Such were the entertainment arranged by the people Brussels, which some authors claim, he was heard more than once to say to Philip, who in good point win would be his residence this capital.
It is believed that D.
Felipe was an arrogant figure, handsome gentleman and very friendly sumptuously dressed.
To this is added as an amiable character, so everybody liked him.
These qualities were what the renowned Le Grange Fair.
The Infanta Doña Juana was on the other hand extremity and energetic, but nevertheless, it took a passion so vehement, that from the moment he saw him loved him with blind idolatry.
The affection of Juana Felipe el Hermoso towards more added every day, by the way of life they observed, and the good behavior of the archduke, who as a young, not thinking about anything but pleasures; So here we were in tournaments, evening parties and other entertainment which grew to more than the passion of his young wife, watching the bravery and skill in the arms of his Felipe.
Her husband was the object of their worship, it had deposited his heart, and he lived alone, the young archduke paid this love to Doña Juana with all the warmth of his young age, and the gallant manner of a prince, so that Infanta had one of those beings happier, and more when it came to notice that soon to be mother.
Opportunity came when they left for Flanders after some time, which gave birth to Doña Juana on November 15, 1498 to Dona Leonor, then continuing through unscathed in his love both and not ceasing to be an example of the spouses or ones.
Despite the fact that although would be like it was enough only the possession of the fruits of his marriage to have taken more increased its unalloyed affection.
For their states did not have the best success being born female, but nevertheless, as were ones parents, the child was appreciated.
Two years later, in 1500, marched to Ghent, where on February 21 had a son, whom nominated Charles, later known throughout the universe by his fame and power.
Great was the joy that looked painted on their faces of the inhabitants of those states, striving every man expressing his joy he experienced by the Crown Prince.
Were also innumerable festivals with such a solemn occasion were implemented, and would therefore cause to raise the extract of this story to a huge height.
Began around this time and Doña Juana to sink into despair, because since the fortune everything seemed to tilt the favor to the newborn, began to vanish as if by magic the happiness of the mother of Emperor Charles V.
Misfortune came to take the life in the same year of 1500 to the end of July the infant D.
Michael, son of King D.
John of Portugal, last child in the male line of kings D.
Catholics Fernando and Queen Isabel, falling as a consequence the crown of Spain, in mother Leonor and D.
Ferdinand and Isabella immediately called Don Juan de Fonseca, bishop of Cordoba, and ordered him to pass the order as soon as possible to Flanders for knowing the archdukes this event, to congratulate them on their real names, and make known the vital their need to plan your trip to Spain, for and eagerly awaited to be sworn in as chief of this great nation, that the sky had deigned to leave as the sole heirs.
A few days passed without D.
Juan de Fonseca to fulfill its mission; but the tape found in Doña Juana and the many occupations in this delicate time came to be Philip the Fair in those states, were the cause of that could not be verified the planned journey to end and the year of 1501, which gave birth to her third child, (Mrs.
The rulers of this nation were received with the greatest affability, lavishing endless displays of affection, and treating them with decency and respect due to so powerful lords.
A small annoyance happened was the cause of the Archduke soon put in departure abroad to Spain.
A holiday solemn Mass came to real French family accompanied by his royal guests.
At the offertory a lady came to Juana, approaching his hand a number of currencies, so as usual the names offered to the public queen.
This was rejected with violence, saying: "Do unto your sovereign know me not offer it for anyone, do you understand? ".
With the money and the answer came back the messenger to the Queen, who felt a slight degree so marked, but trying to restrain his anger, was content to pay that with a larger one, which was not provided with the exit of the church rather than to the royal entourage.
Joanna's insight made to present something on this particular, and indeed he was right, because as the Mass ended, he began to meet the family, however, she was in church.
The queen waited a bit on the street but pretending Juana knew all this, he remained in that position long while, then going alone to the palace.
Everything went hearsay in court about the snub that remains explanations, and had passed later if the Archduke not try to apologize to his wife of shots that ran it; so hastily had to shorten his trip to the Spanish soil.
Had already begun the days of 1502, when they made their entry into Spain by Fuenterrabia.
In this capital waiting on the recommendation of D.
Fernando and Queen Isabel, Don Bernardo de Sandoval y Rojas, who accompanied by Burgos, Valladolid and Madrid to Toledo, at which point were called the Parliament of the kingdom, where, after jurors were heirs the crown of Spain, according to calculation, was on 22 May of that year 1502.
Passed after also to be sworn to the kingdoms of Aragon and Valencia, in which they accompanied their journey parents.
Back because of this expedition was to stop at Alcalá de Henares, in consequence of birth was near Doña Juana.
All parties that are prepared at the court to the archdukes heirs, were suspended to run after the double object the new birth of a prince, which took effect on the day March 10, 1503 with the birth of the Infante Don Fernando who succeeded after the Emperor Charles V in the empire Germany.
Occurrences that had by then in the states of Philip the Fair, did not allow continue any longer in Spain, so I decided to get up instantly, even against their will, were not enough the pleas of his mother, nor to Doña Juana make him desist from his efforts.
From this period dates the fatal madness of the mother of many kings.
Since that time he was so miserable a woman worthy of a better fate.
Anyone you know what you are jealous, you can judge which Juana had therefore been assumed that until the shadow was about to snatch a husband so dearly.
Philip in turn had paid the fair value with the love placed in him, but it was extinguished, not enthusiastic and repeated praise of his wife, and this caused him not feeling his departure, checking it even before that the latter is the response of indisposition of his birth.
In the entourage Doña Juana, forming his servants, when he went to Flanders perform their wedding, was a young girl, who was the admiration of all.
Possessed a beautiful blonde pleasant and seductive, graceful too much, and an extraordinary talent.
To find himself in the palace of the Archduke, motivated return Philip the Handsome of Spain, once rid of unbounded praise of Doña Juana, look at her with such adhesion, which finally concluded by blindly passionate attraction of the Spanish blonde, whose magnificent golden hair came to seduce her heart.
Did not take long to succumb to the repeated instances of Philip, which a few days to no was only a servant and who now occupied the place of a queen.
This and no another was thus depriving the Archduchess of their reason until they ceased to exist.
This and no other was the sharpest knife to introduce his lover Philip chest.
Stop anyone have loved at this point, and consider consuming fever that would take over a character so firm and strong as that of Doña Juana.
I suffered unspeakable tortures, torments disturbed his reason to dilirio: up not wanting to embrace what they most wanted in the world after her husband, who were his children.
Its always sad and haggard face, revealing the atrocious undergoes tortures: their wandering eyes seemed like trying to distinguish an object, the which there is, besides his eyes, filling him with insults and curses, fled from all people preferred to not more than solitude: This was distracting, devoting his mind Philip, in spite of being unfaithful.
On this occasion decided to leave the court, and removed to the Mota of Medina del Campo, being intimately convinced that this place would look observers free court, and thence to write to Queen Elizabeth, her mother, news of his latest resolution, which was leaving at the earliest to Flanders to in this way again become masters of the heart of her husband, and destroy as soon as love that had been deposited in the Spanish blonde.
Queen Elizabeth, before her daughter was aware all, knew perfectly the ardent love she professed her husband, and presumed Maybe their departure would be the mainspring of a great scandal, tried to prevent his departure, but at the expense of hard work.
He knew that Philip's love relationships were too new to you as soon could have a break.
So they tried to dissuade her from the idea of ??leaving, putting it on the pretext be very delicate health, and tambiem found his father holding the Cortes in Aragon, which we worship so dearly, would feel very much that this determination had been taken without their consent.
Both Catholic Queen Juana and her daughter, wore his intention, first, to see if I could without giving scandal, fade the love you had put Philip in the maid, and the second because I wanted to give a lesson to her husband, mistaking his mistress.
Doña Juana I kept writing to her mother for the purpose indicated, but had been useless so far their pleas to achieve the permission of this: he had come to the point to command the most influential characters of his court for himself in this way could what would have liked even at the cost of his life.
But seeing that all was in vain, made the determination to leave without the consent of his mother, without reaching the ears of his father, and if possible, without them knowing more than his chariot drivers.
To those people who had placed their trust gave the necessary orders for as soon as prepare the tools needed to start over.
Everything was already prepared, but did chance Isabel was advised of this resolution unexpectedly, which immediately sent Don Juan de Fonseca, bishop of Cordoba, that the plea in his name does not go away.
A about to board the carriage was already Doña Juana when it was sent to the Queen.
Sent instantly D.
Juan de Fonseca to retire the carriage, and then went to see the Archduchess, to which he found already at the door of the palace de la Mota, prepared to march in costume on the road.
That required compliance with its position, made her knowledgeable of the order of the Catholic Queen, intimidated to return to his apartment, but the Archduchess was not already the case to keep considerations of any kind, so do not said a word, in the heat of his fiery passion was no more than mysteries, secret agents from rival and her unfaithful husband, who had no other entertainment to delay their departure.
The Bishop of Cordoba hurried in vain even presenting its instances at every word the name of his mother, but already tired of hearing disobeyed the order and prayers of this, and preparing to leave: "Let me, he said, is a sacred duty that I will not stop Anything in this journey. "Then the bishop sent to close the door, leaving the part of in at the unhappy Juana.
Seeing this lady was confined to the height of his despair, and began to utter both and that insolent insult phrases, D.
Juan de Fonseca was extremely angry, in spite of having been summoned to the Archduchess through his camera gentleman, D.
He would not return, but took the path of Segovia, where he then was Queen Isabel.
When he came D.
Juan de Fonseca to where she was the queen gave him part of what has happened with the princess Isabella, in spite of what was weak and many businesses that gave him his high position, he set out for Mota in Medina del Campo, presumed that perhaps his presence would give up his daughter as a project for her sensitive.
After the usual Fulfilment and to which no attention is paid, promised it would go very soon to join her husband. "You never want to God, he said the queen, my will or that the king your father is that of you from the side of your husband, and if anything else on this subject have dared to say, despreciadla. " These and other reasons we esponia Isabel, and she in her frenzy, but that did not respond: "They are useless the prayers of the world: I will not give one iota ...
The father of my children! ...
Spoke, and in tears, threw herself on the floor, refusing care all treated to lavish.
Completed and the Cortes of Aragon, did not think it prudent to King Ferdinand, stop for longer his journey, because it was knowing what was happening with her daughter, whose mental alienation fostered every day, and it was quite possible that the detainees, had been due to declare their folly.
Premeditating this very reason, make available a fleet commanded the Laredo port of giving the same time his daughter, permission to practice his expedition to Flanders.
The transports of joy that undergoes Doña Juana with his father's last wishes are indescribable, and few days later he prepared to make your desired expedition.
The bad weather that was cause for the journey of Doña Juana is made more long, and interview he had with the mistress of Philip the Fair.
On March 15, 1504, Juana went accompanied by their parents to the point where went to boarding (Laredo), but everything seemed to come against all seemed to reveal his will.
This to grow torments of the princess, and take many more of indignation, because everything seemed to combine to prevent the reunion with her husband.
Two months had to reside in Laredo, which were the the storm lasted, and two months they were two centuries, if we see the disposition in which was this lady, and greatly aggravated their ongoing suffering.
Mid April did set sail, arriving in nine days happily to Dicks, a distance of three leagues and a half of Bruges.
At this point she was expecting her husband, who expressed an unspeakable joy as he turned to embrace, and she, according to the affection that the painting, he seemed completely oblivious of a so just resentment.
Although the two mutually give evidence of love and happy, entertained both fatal and mortifications passions, the Archduke, for the passionate love affair with the maid; and the more rabid jealousy, Doña Juana.
But lived with the hope that the first ever this would know of his love: and second, to avenge a woman as big disappointments had made it suffer.
Great peace seemed to reign at first since the arrival of Doña Juana, the Archduke to not disclose to anyone what was in his imagination, dissembling as could the love of her blonde, but he was wrong, not even his most hidden steps escaped the penetration of his wife.
Palace gave them to his master daily report if jealous of his wife; and these same palace to satisfy themselves as Archduchess detail could help to irritate it more.
For one of these came to know that one of the things that I had loved his maid's husband was her beautiful blond hair populated.
But not content even with this statement, he indicated the places and times where it commonly gave appointments.
With the previous relationship came to completely exhausted the patience of the Archduchess, because had fully recognized that he had employed in vain all the resources to provide its unblemished love to see if this sort to disappear from her husband a passion she never thought rooted, because he believed a whim.
Occasionally they had already mediated several words between the spouses, but the Archduke, very in love with his blonde, to yourselves, practicing with the greatest coolness
