The gentleman shook his hand as he entered, he only bowed serious while being funny and kind that no contest was even stranger, because apart their difference in status and race, their respective ages was remarkable at first view and there was no other relationship between them than friendship, more or less sincere and selfless.
Then he asked in sad tone and approaching women as he could, so as not to raise voice, that had some anger: - What about the patient?
The mulatto shook his head in even sadder and said three monosyllables: - Ah!
Something more lively, but not despejársele the face, added a little later: - Did not I the Lord?
He said he gave heat sheets, it burned the head, and several times tried to get out of bed gasping for air.
So it was necessary to send for the doctor.
Wine and prescribed a sedative: took it, because the poor thing takes as given.
my lord, this made the miss, I'm looking; has given me heart.
Why, has not tried to convince you that separation is only a short time?
It's not her any girl ... - What if I have not tried!
But in a few days the baptized and then I'll have to bring her here Mary Rule, my woman, that three months it lost a son from the evil of the seven days, and breastfeeding in order Creche mine.
She will return healthy, and Christian save his mother's arms.
I have a fixed all that with Montes de Oca, a doctor from the Royal House, who often know by the girl.
Al beginning to cry a lot and refused to take the breast of Mary Rule, so enflaqueció a little.
But all that has happened and is now plump and rosy, that is, as I have been informed Montes de Oca, because I have not seen since the night that I go through the turnstile ...
My eyes went after her.
Can not err, no.
I do not know who would hurt more if her or me ...
Mother, mother, my lord, is what got me restless.
By force loses his mind or life.
Josefa sign, as he called the stranger, knew he was smart woman, but by neglect of their education often incurred in the common faults of the vulgar language the people in Cuba.
Despite the maturity of their years and their sorrows, retained samples a young beautiful and distinguished, kindly, loving expression of the mouth and roundness neck, shoulders and arms.
He had the sallow color of the mixture resulting black female and a male Indian, but curly hair and oval face did not support probability of such marriage, but the black mother and white father.
When Young took comfortable life, had joys and brushed with people well-bred and well-mannered.
Honda had to be the grief that at the time the afflicted, as were the frequency of sighs repeated contraction of his eyebrows and the abundance of aqueous humor in their swimming big eyes and dimmed the brightness.
Moreover, his attitude was more despair than true regret.
It had moments that both characters were silent, each in turn with their own thoughts, insurance that did not coincide at any point in time that they heard a moan and a piercing scream hatched inside the house.
The woman gave a painful cry, took both hands to the head and ran as desalinated by the first chamber to the second quarter.
Mechanically the gentleman did with his hands the same movement and quietly followed suit, although at a distance.
There was no more light than the fading of an oil lamp in a table on which stood an altar niche or puppeteer, where a figure revered size, with robe or woman, who looked to the sky and had stuck a sword in the chest, which looked like silver handle.
On the opposite side was a bed, with silk hangings, and faded, and the head was a leather chair, that when there came a sign Josefa had vacated an elderly black woman, scrawny, image of death, whose white hair contrasted ebony with its long neck and bony.
He had in his right hand a rosary and several scapulars the breast on white shirt; spans the size of the canvas skirt, a black belt and long to the Augustinian friar.
I was like embedded or praying with great fervor, and touch Josefa sign on the shoulder, suddenly raised his head, turned to the door of the room, she saw the stranger standing, made a gesture of horror or fright and disappeared the back door without a word.
Josefa sign took its place.
Their eyes stared into the pale face of a girl of 20 years, lying face up and apparently dead.
Why not move at the time, had sunken eyes and eyelids closed, which eyelashes were so long that shaded cheeks.
The head was all I had out of the sheets, and that almost buried in the pillow, which disappeared under a bush black hair, wavy and spread everywhere in the greatest disorder.
Middle of that black background highlighted the oval face, pale wax ill with acute beard, square, high forehead, small mouth, lips, lips, nose and very well done Women of mixed race, as indeed was it that now in question.
The set was well, women's, but had such a look of anguish and melancholy in his face withered by the disease, which was pitiful to the viewer.
Moved by this feeling may sign Josefa whispered the gentleman - has fallen asleep.
The gentleman's response was shaking his head negatively, perhaps because at that moment thought he noticed a convulsive shudder that ran from head to foot the entire body of the patient.
After the quake laid at the feet began chest, easily perceived motion over the sheet, as a calm sea wave that picks up suddenly and sigh precursor then blew the bottom of the heart, accompanied by an acute painful groan.
Understanding the gentleman what should occur, could not help it, paragraphs one and hidden view and gradually withdrew to the foot of the bed.
I watched the grieving mother.
Lie down and rest. - Do you want your mercy I sleep, if I carried my daughter, the daughter of my womb? - But who takes it, my life? - Who takes it?
The Blessed Virgin.
