There are two rival companies, happily, explaining that request.
The ceilings and walls of the elegant villas sparkle as if they cleaned each morning.
In buildings of stone, imitating the old, the dark gray paint which strives to be decrepit, unable to deceive the eye, as the young artists who believe in the old tables made whitening hair and retaining the freshness of the skin, does not produce the illusion sought ...
Far away in the confusing drawing of the city, something enormous that extends between two huge pillars, almost lost in the mist, is the Brooklyn Bridge.
But the keen eye discovers no archaic tower, a monument, a column, something to talk about the past ...
Is that people have confused a three historical ages; not seek art in these costs, but what in them is ...
But, I repeat, the bay is really beautiful.
Mil vapors cross it in all directions, displaying little slender forms floating palaces that bring to mind the sad memory of the "America" ??and the disaster it fell.
The first elements of the trial that formed in New York after a short stay, by describing the huge city of "paradise of women and children" were collected on the morning of my landings.
I sent my luggage to the hotel early, that is, I gave one of those agencies to replace very comfortable in everything that is annoying individual action and started to roam the streets.
It was 8 o'clock on a gorgeous July day.
The sun lit up the wide avenues, and since large groups of idle men looked tired in the shade of large trees lining the sidewalks and populate the squares.
For all parties, women and children, alone, quiet, with satchels on their backs, pink, pompous of force.
Marching with firm step sovereign.
When you reach a corner where traffic flow makes it impossible to transit stop and look just the policeman, that stood in the middle of the street, with the severity of a statue, as monitored with active eye happening around them.
The policeman awaiting the assembly of five or six children, making the most little girl on his left arm, and surrounded by the bustling tribe, is launched at high sea, raising cane in his right hand, symbol of authority.
Trams, cars, cab, carriage estate, a vehicle is stopped at once and the children calm and safe crossing the road, guided by the love of people, represented at that time by the proper official.
Successfully concluded, the policeman deposited on land its cargo funny, smiles on their tiny Customers bid farewell to him as a friend and walked over the road in front of a similar issue.
More than once I stopped for a long time to look at that picture.
At every moment, the daily London, Paris or Vienna, announce bad things happen to children knocked down by vehicles.
In New York children is sacred.
For her dilated parks, tree-covered, upholstered grass, not just ornamentation, but that the child run over it safely, try their strengths and unfold.
