The year 1560 was taken prisoner Turkish, in Gelves.
Taken to Constantinople, and put the oar in a galley loaded materials for the Sultan's Palace, was one of those who killed the guards with stones, fleeing to Sicily with the ship.
Continued in the habit of stalking and shooting attacks and bites, had made a gesture Instant resolution energetic eyes.
Eyes gray bird of prey, hard eyes where yet the embers sparking his pride, as in the days when he dragged his Castilian spurred by the slabs of Naples.
History was a string of more or less honorable deeds, but full of haughty indolence not seeking out the kind of soldier, wearing the old squire and invoking the glove the task quiet streets accompanied by the ladies of the nobility.
In addition to the sets of their own existence, the maids contábales snippets of books horses, as well as fabulous traditions of Avila and Segovia.
Knew songs barbers and walkers, all life on the Moor Abindarraez verse, and countless letrillas who sang with husky voice, the sound of a guitar, turning the eyelids to mimic the blind.
Fiera, pale scar noted at the top his bronzed face the sea.
That afternoon, only he was seated in the chest and made some gossip refer the market, one of the girls, running her own finger over his eyebrows and asked, - Said, sir Medrano: Who I carved this wreath?
The squire dropped eyes for a moment without answering, and taking from his wallet of a sheepskin red canvas, Sonos noses with him.
This movement was sometimes tedious ad narrative.
The boy, now supported on the knee of former soldier, played with his sword, as usual, edges groping, poking the spots on the leaf, or brandishing it before him, with child arrogance, but he noticed the man thoughtfully, steel knelt on the floor and supporting both hands on the thick handle, prepared to listen.
Medrano began to scowl.
It was an old episode of Gelves disaster.
He spoke slowly, with an accent similar to the sound of a drummer intemperate, and more than once their eyes were wet to remember the shame of that day.
Described the disorder and from the ships to come on quickly Christian Navy turquesco.
They ran aground on the shoals, those, wanting to escape quickly, broke their lateen yard, others were delivered without a fight.
He spoke of soldiers who escaped at night to eat the bodies of the Turks; of crazed women, tearing each other's breasts bites; Spanish mothers that their creatures were thrown from the top of the walls.
When General Don Alvaro de Sande worked his disastrous exit, he was the chosen to accompany him.
He had stood up to better describe those moments of desperate struggle. - Since we were arriving at the gallows - he said .-- The Moors musketeers, after consuming all gunpowder, could not offended, stopped by our picks, but one of them, something not believe, hincose he himself in the belly of mine, and giving in this way several steps strung, as I say, managed to reach me and long story, worse luck for that!, a good whore gash on the forehead.
One of the maids Canturri: The Gelves, mother, are not good to take!
But the former soldier said without hearing: - When Christianity Be seen free of these allies of the devil!
At times I say: who another, if necessary, be achieved now that lack contenellos Don Juan, that of Lepanto?
Upon hearing that last sentence, Ramiro, away from the squire and raising his sword, "said with amazing expression: - As to that, I have to do the same as a Don Juan, if I said King.
Some maids smiled and the boy, looking at his face, cried again, hitting foot in the flooring: - I have to do the same, I say and even more I do, with the help of God and the Virgin!
Meanwhile, behind him, the stairwell door had just opened and a beautiful woman extremely pale, dressed all in black, entered the room.
Dona was Giomar, the Ramiro's mother.
The boy turned his face towards her, came forward to answer: - That would not, mother, and I took it with deception. - Others will be, my son - then the tearful woman said - the weapons you have to wield when you enter the service of God and His Holy Church, and were better fed now, upon your hands a book of religion that does that iron.
Callose an instant, and the child, seeing her eyes carried the crumpled handkerchief, dropped to point the sword, and ran toward her, - Why this weeping? - The question. - No, my son - said the mother, dominated by grief .-- Conduéleme a new sad others.
We will not return to see Mother Teresa de Ahumada ...
Entered into the joy of the Lord as a saint Antiy in Alba de Tormes.
A murmur of groans and sighs arose in the darkness of the room.
Some women sobbed. * * * * * The sun had just set, and soft, slow, parishes played prayers.
Was a choir, a bell singers continuous crying, moaning bells in the quiet twilight.
It seemed as though the city was all smooth, metallic, vibrant, and sounded like one bronze in the transport of her prayer.
Doña Guiomar, dropping on his knees, sang aloud the words of the Angelus.
All imitating its movement, prepared to respond.
The windows open, leaving a peace penetrate dim and the first breath of sleeping pill night.
II Iñigo de la Hoz and his daughter Guiomar Avila settled in the year of 1570, coming from Valsaín, near Segovia, where they had their inheritance.
The trip was abruptly solved, and a rainy morning October, greenish rubber float, without bell or rattle collars, entered the city, the Market Gate Grande, an hour after sunrise.
Since then the father and daughter in Avila led a life of mystery, leaving only very tomorrow, covered chairs, to attend, each by hand, morning Mass in some of the neighboring churches.
The old site used for housing, which together with three hundred acres of land in the Valley-Amblés, inherited the gentleman of his wife Dona Brianda del Aguila, was situated on a square, a few steps from the door of misfortune.
Square masonry tower rising in the southeast corner, cutting the sky its imposing Moorish crown of battlements and turrets.
Mole was a haughty and sullen, stained with reddish patches of a crust similar to rust.
The narrow prison windows pierced random, and a beaded trim, which seemed to symbolize the rosary adorned the base of the four booths and one or sill.
Large stones irregular retostadas by the sun, looking up through the mortar of the walls.
Near the ground, an oblique loophole, like the eye of big lock, had served in the past to defend the door with arrows.
The front covered almost the entire width of the tower.
Was one of those covers emphatic and aristocratic, so common in Avila de los Caballeros.
Formed the lintel huge segments of a single piece, open semi-circle and rectangular framed by Gothic trim.
On either side, each of the spandrels, a carved crest alternated in their quarters the arms of the Avileses main families: the bird of the Eagles, the roundels of Blázques the winch and the deck of the Bracamontes.
Studded nails beautiful woodwork of the door and a knocker chiseled, ripped perhaps some Andalusian palace, hung from the gate.
To the right, another top latch was used to call from the horse without getting off.
In the hallway, compared to a Virgin package, the Son died on the slopes, a lantern burning continuously.
The spacious courtyard was a rectangle, framed by cloistered galleries, without further ornament that large coats of arms carved on pinnacles.
Grew thick and tall grass everywhere, respect, only, one covered space for the remains of broken slabs that just scattered in the grass, suggested in the ossuary of dilapidated convent.
The gentleman never thought of repairing the abandonment of that place, where he was idling, as in uncultivated countryside.
Sometimes they came and went in the sun, swatting butterflies in their path; others, spent hours looking out the whole rotten old well curb, digging thoughts and watching, while his own face that water in your mirror reflected circular and deep.
Those galleries seemed to imprison for stubborn old memories, and the air itself was pinned between them, as steeped in quiet rural monastic silence.
The father and daughter only lived in the upstairs of the mansion.
The majesty and carelessness prevailed at par in the rooms.
Along the dusty walls, where the Flemish tapestries obscurely deployed his fables, hung or supported old family portraits and all Furniture aristocratic class, some found in the house and others brought in by the gentleman Valsaín.
When walking through the halls, tiles, broken or loose, rang under the carpet Turkey.
Canopy of cloth of gold and brocade, dust and cobwebs that crammed into its folds antique beds adorned hereditary gnawed by worms.
The windows are rarely opened time, but rich silver censers hongoso and conceal the stink with their constant mousy incense.
Locked from dawn until night in the library of the palace, Don Inigo let slip idle time, meditating or reading.
Segovia had brought a large collection of chronicles of Spain, much romance, not a few of devotion, The Epistles of Seneca, De Oficiis Cicero, a Sallust, a Valerius Maximus, a Virgil and some treatises on mathematical celestial more of an armillary sphere with brass zodiac.
Agregábanse printed and manuscripts was found in the house, including big books appeared several Arabic, which made burn at first, in the yard, in the presence of a canon of the cathedral.
Gout attacks are repeated, each time closer and a hidden evil and feverish he was drying rebut the radical moisture and hypochondria.
Sometimes drowsiness overcame him, his mouth ajar let out a whispered nightmare, as if the heat did sleep in his brain bubbling representations of their past existence.
He always wore black or brown, with no other gala that worships gold and red scull Santiago, embroidered tunics and Ferreruela all.
In winter, to meet the former rules of their order, using only modest lambskin leather.
Lent by fasting two years: one from the date of Quatour Coronatorum until Christmas Day, another from Shrove Sunday until Easter.
It was her slender body, his face sallow, as if made of roots.
The short mustache, black still Cinderella contrasted with his chin.
His eyes were glassy, ??monastic, sorry.
His humor bleak.
Believed descended from a king of Aragon, and had traced his name, etymologically, to a Roman consul.
The book named Segovia calf always some ancestor in annual raids of the Knights against the Moors of Jaén, Seville, Andújar.
Until the fifty-two years old, ignoring all work as unworthy of his hands noblemen, and living exclusively from censuses of their lands and gold shields, one by one, was pulling out of a chest, took a life of leisure and retirement in his possession Valsaín or in "Casa de los Picos" in Segovia, without further injury to their wedding package with a lady illustrious family of Avila, one year after marriage, she died in childbirth.
But just outbreak of the rebellion of the Moors, in late 1568, Don Inigo, feeling your blood boil the atavistic anger, met one day at home to friends and relatives with eloquent demostroles reasons the imperative duty to assist the sovereign against those infidel dogs.
Then turned much of their wealth to build, at its expense, a true retinue, as the ancient noblemen.
Under the command of the Marquis of Mondéjar, señalose in the fray by uncontrollable anger, more than once might get you killed, throwing all alone among the enemy, in the rage of persecution.
He preached out war and general castration.
It was he who had discovered the famous leader Djahvar Aben, through terrible tortures two weapons caches in Sierra Nevada.
In the step of Alfajarali received through the front puntazo a curved knife that a Moor, of those who fought crowned with roses as a sign of martyrdom, he jumped off away.
But in the toughest of the season, had to retire to his estate, unhoused by a terrible attack of gout, shortly after receiving the habit of Santiago, in payment for their services.
Until the last years of his life used to console himself for his biggest regrets remembering episodes of that fierce vintage of the Alpujarra. * * * * * Had inherited from their elders the heroic sense of honor and a lordly contempt all the cares of interest and profit.
Both Avila and Segovia, disdaining the administration one's personal finances, he delivered in full, with the keys to their coffers and roles the steward, a butler flamenco, whose probity believed ensure, from time to time, by a demonstration of trust and a chivalrous another aphorism of items.
Madrigal out of wine, stored in skins Tabernil, a provision was not at home, and continuously, the servants went to credit market in the neighborhood what was needed.
The troubles of money does not occur soon, but the gentleman, whose pride would not accept the humiliations of the economy, was one to one pawning his possessions to the Genoese.
If haste was great, was down a carpet, to negotiate a gem or pay certain expenses innumerable pieces of dishes, which dishes, cast in the mines of America, made Currency easily sometimes enormous.
He was, however, enough sober.
Bacon broth, that was served in a bowl with a padlock to protect him from the voracity of the pages, an egg, and a pastry filled with minced meat with pebre, sufficed to any of your snacks.
Some Friday, as a ritual act, drank a cup of wine and tasted a few bites of pork, for distinguished from the Moors and Jews.
III Guiomar and Don Inigo looked only at meal times and dinner.
The old man sitting at the head, and her daughter, to one end of the table, including Ramiro and Chaplain, remained all the time without speaking.
In the midst of agonizing silence, any rumor, the clash of the silver, the footsteps of a page, the cry of hawkers on the street, took on a solemn echo.
Upon waking, when the drop is so spoiled, some moments the old man walking along the block.
Guiomar and son huddled next to the brazier.
Could hear the ticking of a dial.
Could not be said, at first, if it was a dislike hidden or shared grief as that motivated the reservation.
Informing each other by means of the easement.
To Guiomar his room, immediately to the chapel, had cell austerities, and he crossed the other rooms seemed to visit a strange house, leaving behind as floating anguish.
His freshness of times, and the same brightness of his eyes, then held for wink picky, all escaped prematurely from his face, soaked by sorrow, and black nun banished forever colored taffeta petticoat and the funny adolescence.
Before she was fifteen, Don Inigo had promised in marriage to his cousin Lope de Alcántara, who bound him, out of fraternal affection, a noble emulation loyalty and sacrifice.
Lope was such a gentleman in his fifties of wretched face, and adorned only the most severe virtues.
The maiden felt for him invincible repugnance but unable to face the brunt of his father's encouragement, she resigned herself to be offered as a tribute copy of that friendship, which was already mentioned by everyone in Segovia.
Like all squires, vedáronla early reading books of chivalry that abounded in the house, painting them as works of pure vanity and subtle incitement sin.
So, perhaps, began to take them out one by one, stealthily Library father and savor the night, in bed, in the light of a lamp, when everyone was asleep.
The impression of those was for her outlandish adventures as a filter hechiceril.
And thought of nothing but gallant and generous gentleman who came to liberate it and take her away, far away in the croup of the palfrey.
Started living in the brooding love, in conversations and abduction of the stories, daydreaming, forgetting the daily life, giving answers absurd and touching things, like a sleepwalker, not knowing what he wanted.
Aficionose to odors, the embroidered waistcoats of beads and pearls.
Aliñose ever hands and mane.
Prevented her confessors, but it was too late.
One summer evening in Segovia, watching from her room of red leaf removal sunset over the valley of Eresma, passing in the street was a gallant cavalier was stopped at her.
A dagger covered with stones precious shone on his breeches slashed.
That scene was repeated several times moving.
Some nights, tearful and somber singing voice beneath his window, to the sound of Sadko.
The ticket attached to a stone was immediate.
Finally the clutches of a silk ladder hooked onto her balcony, and her lips sucked on Segovia asleep, the rapture of the first night kiss.
When he had surrendered completely to sin, and pulled from his wine first Maternity ads, believed haywire.
Without hope, revealed all to her father.
Meanwhile the seductive disappeared from Segovia.
Medrano was commissioned to go after him.
Shortly thereafter, in Arevalo, the stranger introduced himself to the squire, stating his name and race.
Was a Moor. - Tell your master - said to leave - I wanted to avenge his honor herille my Aben brave father Djahvar, whom he did suffer in Almería ruthless torment, but that, if he agrees now, upon marrying his daughter to me, I'm going to prostrate myself at his feet.
Lope de Alcántara was informed of everything, man, crazy of love or loyalty, to hear the exasperation regarding his friend's mouth, rather than angry, required to be made to point their wedding, and married for three days only broke Flanders.
A few months later Don Inigo received a letter from his friend informing him Sancho Dávila as admirable as his son had sacrificed their lives in an encounter with the Huguenots France.
Guiomar, as if seized with both hands open wound in his chest so much pain seemed to drain out of his blood that excessive guilt, whose ardor had defiled his honor.
His hands took impressive brightness between their garments in mourning, and his whole soul was bent all to the light ray of hope divine.
Despite her pregnancy, her body subjected to the most arduous penance, in imitation, in of his home in what was possible, the new reform of Caramel.
When delivery day approached, Don Inigo decided to change residence and moved, forever, Avila de los Santos.
IV Breathing this air of sadness and monastic enclosure, with the instinctive embarrassment children in the great misfortunes, without joy, without a companion of his age, governed by taciturn beings continually speaking softly, Ramiro experienced the dark days childhood.
The slower growth of children, the same smile, always found a finger on a lip.
At seven years old sumiose in a gloomy silence, passing hours in a hideout, hands and face stay as distressed.
There was something monstrous in the contrast with his soft features that forehead frown charged, apparently adult thoughts.
Early on, his mother rodrigole in the hardness of relentless devotion.
I attended with him every day at dawn Mass in the parishes of San Juan and Santo Domingo, he habituated to difficult sentences that obscure his mind, and endless litanies which were twisted powerless the Devil.
Gave him also for use, a string of fifteen decades, as which led the monks.
I had to kiss the ground in humility before the images of Our Señora del Carmen, and deposit also their kiss in the scapular of the religious to gain indulgences.
After the First Communion increased rigidity.
Doña Guiomar the punished now need more minimum with monastic penance, instilling contempt for the world and the terror of sin.
Every night I read, with his bed in the Flos Sanctorum the history of the saint's day and sometimes, leaving the book, she recounted the miracles of a nun in the city or works and wonders of Mother Teresa of Jesus, his cousin on his mother.
He would say the daily conversations of that holy woman with the Lord, and how, through prayer, touched the heavenly breath suddenly, lifting his body several feet of soil.
Those things were told by the mother in a voice trembling, spilling out into the night as sacred and fearful smell of sanctity.
During most of the day he left to his discretion.
The child, meanwhile, wandering through the mansion, looking out the windows to the boys playing in the square, stay up to work on the top floor of the tower, or down the block of the pages at the corral, to bring some goodies away from their own snacks.
The long room like a tavern of Moors, was crowded with boxes of leather and iron, which seemed the time of the Cid, and narrow platforms covered filthy blankets
