I'll take with me, will educate .-- Those women were very poor.
Inspired great affection I Clarita, but to have it beside the condemned to be poor like them for life.
Don Elijah considered as person's position and character, and did not hesitate, therefore, in leaving the child.
He remained, however, in Sahagun until 1812, when the realist left their weapons and retired to Madrid.
Clara then accompanied him, unable to leave their poor friends without mourn much, and could not get used to not looking face to face to your protector, because he was very afraid.
Great was their sorrow when waking on a beautiful day in May was found between dark walls of the house that we know in the street Oh my God, and this sadness increased when taken to the convent-school of some famous sisters of an Order that taught girls in the neighborhood to what little they knew.
I had school all the gloom of the convent, cloister without melancholy and sweet peace.
Dirigíanla a few old, among whom stood out for his carelessness, ugliness and decrepitude such a distraught mother, who used a very long cane to punish girls and a green goggles, which more than to see better, he served for the poor things did not know when I looked at them.
The girls woke up very early, and prayed, ate lunch a soup of garlic, I used as they swim the day before Garbanzo, and then went to the studio, I was reading exercise, in which played the main role of Donna Angus cane.
Then traced by space two hours, two separate scribble on scratch paper, and after answering a memorial to the questions of a catechism, sewing three long hours, until it was the game.
Recess took place in a dark and smelly courtyard, where the vegetation was a poor yellow carnation consumptive and growing in a pot unusable, erected in flowerpot.
The girls played a while in that pigsty until the distraught mother from her room sounded an ominous bell, which gathered around his cane to the sad angels from the ashes.
After dinner wearing the rosary Bridget's mother, not to do this, the distraught mother, asthma to the afflicted, broken voice.
That rosary was endless, because behind her came the endless litany paternoster, sores, mysteries, aspirations, prayers, mystical joy and lamentation.
The night was surprised at the pious exercise, and very often that some of the girls, delivered under the moral weight as monotonous and tired prayer, yawn three times and finally slept blissfully.
Sheltered behind her glasses, the mother Distresses observed yawns and dictatorial stroked his rod without a word to the culprit, waiting for him to sleep, and then God's wrath!
shook him a rum, followed by a string of angry insinuations.
The other girls, they did not expect more than a source of distraction and entertainment, seeing the sad figure who was his companion on awakening abruptly burst out laughing, prayer was interrupted, the mother Bridget growled, cackled the Angus mother and showered the rum to the right and left.
The distraught mother told them: "Now the ca ...
Mother Bri ...
Bridget, you do not know, the ca ...
garret. " And going to bed, because he suffered from certain ahoguillos, and had to get all stopgap nights in the stomach.
Clarita and other school girls blindly believed that the mother had no Sorrows eyes, and all optical powers residing in those two dreaded green glass, frame embedded in a stale and moldy, and it was so cut two rounds to imitate green paper backing of the catechism and I stuck with saliva in the eyes, which died of laughter.
Since they could not see drop with those patches, one day the mother watched; Petronilla, who was a pickle, and after many coscorrones them, condemned them to not eat or play that day, what hours passed the poor!
Again they were all in the yard, and it occurred to a skinny little bird get there the roof and resting after crashing into the walls, the sad carnation.
With scarves, robes, with what they found at hand, chased him catch you, atáronle a thread on one leg, and Clara kept Cajoncillo well in a seam where it was.
In secret they took him to eat by nights, but the animal became more enflaquecía and sad every time.
One night, when as the prayer was about to begin with, Clara had opened the sewing, and pretending to be arranged within something from him, was engaged in opening the mouth to the bird and put him to force a few crumbs of bread he had in his pocket, when suddenly the animal took wing, flew the room with the thread tied on the leg, and went to stand where will you believe?
in the same Dona head of Sorrows, which by being desecrated in this manner, took such anger, that asthma he drowned his voice and gesticulating was ten minutes in silence, as red as a tomato.
Clara it was stiff with fear. "...
rita - distraught mother cried .-- blind rage ...
What deactivated ...
cato is this?
Tonight at ca ...
Anguish continued in his cackling until he saw terrible performance of the order, and even the time that used to be collected, Clara was taken to prison, which was a dark attic, foul and frightening.
The poor thing could not be itself for fear of being alone in that slum, one thousand objects whose form could not see, lying on a miserable pallet and exposed to air cast, which entered through a window.
In wakeful, he felt the footsteps of mice living in those climates, steps in his ears rang as if they were produced by the feet of an army of giants.
He shrugged, all wrapped in a blanket, hiding the feet, hands and head, but the rats ran above, and jumping, came and went with a terrible din.
It also increases the dread of a dispute that girl on the roof neighbor cat got stuck between two noisy mournful meowing and throwing out of tune.
The poor could not sleep, and the day he found balled up, drenched in cold sweat and trembling with fear.
Among these extraordinary events and the daily task of study and sewing, always terrified by the terrible fascination of the mother glasses Sorrows, Clara spent four years until he met the eleven, Elijah came and took her to his house.
Realists do not know at first what to make of the girl: it occurred to a nun, but driven by a sudden selfishness, decided to keep him.
His intelligence was not well cultivated, not knowing but read, write and do some accounts, but instead sewed well and understand the all kinds of work.
Chacona's daughter grew Coletilla house, and was a woman.
He grew up without games, without friendly partners, without joy, without these healthy and lead happy useful expansions from childhood to youth.
Elijah was not bad, but neither is she was very affectionate.
On Sundays he would take to Florida or to the Virgen del Puerto, once took her to the theater, and Clara thought it was really what they were representing.
Sunday walks ceased when Elijah had occupations and concerns which shut him out of his house: then she just listen to early morning Mass at the nuns of Gongora, and accompanied him on this expedition, a Alcarrian maid named Pascual, who Coletilla had taken into his service.
This perpetual imprisonment had soured and warped maybe another character so sweet and kind that of Clara, who came to believe that life was something very natural, and should not aspire to something else, so they lived peaceful, happy melancholy, and sometimes joyful.
Yet, whole weeks passed without a stranger gets into the house fanatic.
It seemed that all the society wanted to escape from the cage in which was enclosed their greatest enemy.
Only one exception was at the normal insulation.
After the ruin of the Porreno and Venegas, only were three individuals, three venerable ladies kept friendly relations with the realistic.
Very now and then went to visit him.
Never talked to Clara but solemn words, which gave sadness and brought down the mood.
They could not do without the label, even in front of a poor girl and were so ceremonious, stiff, that they came to take Clara dislike, because whenever went to the house left there a shadow of sadness that lasted long into the soul of the orphan.
In recent years, Coletilla entered, as we said, at the height of his frenzy political, the anger was normal, and it was something impossible in his fanatical obsessions irascible soul that could have affection and finesse for the poor fellow that both needed.
On the contrary, showed himself very hard on her, he was not talking weeks whole, sometimes with acrimony and scolded her for no reason: he called frivolous and frivolous.
One day, seeing that the hair had been unhappy with less ease than usual, and had dressed a little reforming its natural elegance with the powerful instinct of fashion that women have the world's most remote, scolded her, repeating many times this phrase that cost him tears to the unhappy: "Clara, you've ruined." Sometimes gave the old by watching her, and forbade him out on the balcony and open the door, ie the left or the tormented, depending on the status of that spirit disturbing and cruel.
Clara became ill, was going slowly withered as the growing difficulty in carnation the schoolyard.
His melancholy increased, it became pale and exhausted, and came to do fear serious health hazards.
Tagline could not remain indifferent to the disease of his protege, and brought a doctor who expressed his opinion very briefly, saying: "If you do not send this girl to the field to die within a month. " The realist thought that the death of that girl would be a setback.
He recalled that his sister Ateca lived with his family, and formed his plan.
Wrote two letters and a few days after Clara entered the village with a heart overflowing joy.
Charitable reaction occurred in their health, and spirit, so long afflicted by boredom and closure, was revived with the full enjoyment of nature and treatment of gay people that attended and loved.
Those days were a second life for the unfortunate martyr regenerated because materially, becoming freshness, freshness and vigor, his eyes, accustomed to darkness with four walls, and traveled a long horizon, his steps led to the distances: her voice was heard by friends jovial and frank, by young singles, caring for old, his joy was understood and shared by others, his innocent wish Satisfied knew friendship, family life, trust, enjoyed a beautiful sky, of clean air, a sober and quiet well, as happy and not monotonous days of quiet and peaceful nights.
But during the stay of Clara Ateca things happened that powerfully influenced the rest of his life.
Will refer to, because they derive most of this history; and so important and serious, we leave to the next chapter, where you will see, if it is determined not to abandon.
CHAPTER VI #'s Nephew Coletilla. # Martha, the sister of Elias, was a widow with a son named Lazarus, who after studying Humanities in Tudela, went to the University of Zaragoza.
He was a boy as twenty-three to twenty-five, with a pleasant presence, very precocious wit, imagination live, easy and fuzzy word, very impressionable and eager, and rectum and noble heart.
New ideas, then profoundly moved the hearts of youth, had found in the young believer Lazarus decided.
He was one of those who sprouted in the tumult of a classroom of generous military philosophy with passion in the ranks of political propagators, then as necessary.
It happened that students Zaragoza struck up a quarrel with some club members policy, the matter took proportions, the university authorities intervened and saw Lazarus forced to leave Zaragoza, losing progress.
This happened in the days, dismissed Irrigation the command of captain general of Aragon, was in that city riots and demonstrations, that the government wanted to suppress.
Lazarus, who was about to finish the race, he met the gravity of his situation and disgust that would have her mother and grandfather, whom he loved much.
Wanted to complain, but it was useless and had to retire to his people, sad, embarrassed and full of doubts and fears.
But when he entered the house, shaken by the anxiety and remorse, he saw in the company of his mother to an unknown person from the moment he was a secret printing of joy, imposing, without knowing why, comfort and hope.
He confessed what was happening, without diminishing the seriousness of the case, so don Fermín, his paternal grandfather, was seriously and wanted to get angry, and his mother cried a little.
But the stranger, who seemed there to brighten up the house, cleared the wrath of the first and dried the tears of the second while Lazarus, with his head down and moistened eyes, remained motionless in front of their judges and defense counsel said nothing, but in truth it was not necessary, because the young defended him very well without displaying great eloquence, or use other resources that its clear and natural sense, the refiner and generous feeling.
Lazarus was so upset that he imagined that this person was an apparition, a being sent from heaven to rely on those hurried moments.
Expected her to disappear to complete its mission, and watched with amazement the noise that causes the supernatural and unknown.
He had no history of that young, or had suspected that existed and was there.
But the image is not faded, and, conversely, continued to see her adorned with all the physical and moral charms may have the angels in this world.
Lazarus was forgiven, but never left their confusion.
Explicáronle Who was Clara and why he was there, but not why the student was able to dominate the respectful and strong surprise that he had produced.
He shrugged and how amazed all day, and temblóle voice when he wanted to talk to her, and finally fell silent for fear of saying a thousand blunders.
The next day woke up with joy exalted, to that which happened suddenly a sadness like no other.
Her stunning stage took very different as soon as I saw an insatiable appetite attacked verbosity could not contain, as soon made extraordinary efforts to pronounce a word, without being able to get it.
He was a fervent polaticómano, and Zaragoza had distinguished himself by his eloquent speeches in clubs, they had given him much fame, in private conversation expressed also with much enthusiasm and correction but this time all spoke less of policy.
It seemed that no longer existed for him or the French Revolution, and Emile, Rousseau, or the Charter of Talleyrand, and the Dictionary of Voltaire.
He had forgotten all this, and only thinking of more expressive and accurate formula to tell Clare that had seen dreams that night.
Resorted to circumlocutions system, thought then to say to dry and Ambassy, ??remembered that the allegories were invented for that case and all media tested without reaching to any object.
It was two or three days without finding a way to be explicit.
When I was alone, yes, then talked and talked to himself, and even seemed to engage in dialogue with that beautiful mysterious spirit that was always everywhere, accompanying him in his loneliness and insomnia; spirit filled with light and female forms, flowing from the bosom of the night to watch him still, quiet and serene
