In a prayer to Santa Filomena (Ninth, pg. 16) is said to Santa, asking for their protection: "My sins I have become a little lower than the angels, much lower than the beasts, as they do not forget his master's crib, and so appreciate their food and I've forgotten God's house * * *. "It is not only self-contempt which is of such considerations, but the lack of logic in attributing to the gratitude of the animals returned to his master's crib, when it is clear that the motive that drives them is simply hunger.
The wrath of God Natural phenomena are regarded as manifestations of ignorance of divine wrath, which not come to occur if someone, in humanity, not caused by his conduct.
Not only is presented to Mary and Joseph to intercede with all energy for the salvation of the evil for no reason invoked their names, but neither are moved tested or even soften the cruelty of Jesus Christ when sudden death sentence and eternal damnation to the two unfortunate women of evil life.
Ignacio Villamor concerns in a report to the Committee on Infant Mortality, written when was Attorney General, several cases of killings of persons considered to be haunted as those killed by the fans.
The Traiguerra boy who rushed to an ugly old woman by assuming the devil himself, after hearing a sermon of St.
He gave an example of neglect of duty as a farmer, because instead of plowing the earth doing the work by paying his master, he spent the day praying.
Unconnected to the Bureau of Education of the Philippine government have proceeded in the how I have done, not to defend the secular schools of an unjust accusation and unjustifiable, not to attack people or religious or political ideals, but to help remove one of the bases, one of the strongest causes of criminality, corruption, training of individuals useless and harmful to society: superstition!
And, gentlemen, is not only a superstition worthy of laughter, in any way.
It is a superstition ridiculous, yes, absurd, but tragic, dangerous, because it offers the wicked, the criminal the ignorant, the means to succeed in life, get away, to get what they want giving them the means to avoid punishment, on the ground circumventing justice men, and getting God's forgiveness of eternal damnation, by the simple means of invoking the name of a saint, or a Latin word, like a sesame, devotee crosses the gates of heaven.
Lamentable failure of the Bishop of Cebu The prelate accused in the aforementioned manner to public schools, has made a mistake regrettable.
For my part I can assure you that his accusations aroused my curiosity investigate the causes of immorality and perversion of morals that the prelate, and we with it, we all regret.
According to those who have studied the mentality of most of our people, it is evident that superstition is the enemy we to fight, she is the moral cause of the errors we observe.
Both priests regular and the secular clergy confess that the mass of people is still in bondage superstition inherited from the ancestors, superstition could be called genuinely Filipino, which comes from the ancient beliefs in nunu, the asuang and anito and all the spirits of ancient idolatry, before the introduction of Catholicism by missionaries Spanish.
The failure of the missionaries According to own admission, these missionaries, after three centuries of preaching, have failed remove these superstitions embedded in the consciousness of people.
We must accept your statement as an honest witness to the failure of its religious mission.
I'm not interested or argue the point religious views, but the importance of superstition in society, their influence harmful to the evolution of morality.
What is undoubtedly a consequence of the stories contained in this literature is the only reading of the people is the promotion of ignorance, spread so effectively in all superstitions above them and increasing the flow of errors that unfortunately governs mentality of the masses.
It is not just the so-called Indians are also accused of the superstitions children of Spanish-blooded or mixed with Indian and Chinese mestizos.
All these, we, Filipinos, are included among individuals infected with leprosy of superstition, encouraged by the absurd miracle mongering of the novenas, and can not be said to be an evil race of the Philippines, but the inhabitants of the Philippines in general.
For education to be useful, must be in the individual sense of responsibility through automatic free exercise of reason.
The line of duty will be your goal; to achieve this purpose it is essential to develop in man's will through which fight against the bestial instincts against sentimental impulses, against all which is in opposition to the dictates of reason.
Logical mentality to know what to do in order to chart a fair follow: Will, in order to overcome the dictates of our reason to the impulses of our desires.
This is the subject of secular education, education in schools without God, here as government schools at the College of Blessed Imelda, led by PP.
Dominicans, under the rule of Japanese ideas translated into mandatory laws, located in Taihoku, capital of Formosa.
The reading of the so-called miracles of the nature of which I have quoted, makes the impossible seems possible, thanks to mysterious influences readily available, not work but simply by unworthy means, demeaning and condemned by the moral, such as humiliation, the praise, propitiation.
Do not ask or expect a benefit through a positive good we do, for the fulfillment of a duty of which is an asset that is a right; procedures are used for, to win the goodwill of a saint into believing that he wants, he adores, admires it, trying to enhance his vanity and his mediation God's will to win, not a benefit provided directly to that request, but consideration of the merits of mediator.
Can not imagine anything more immoral, more primitive, more despicable.
The heavenly court is a court more corrupt than those of the autocrats that history has condemned, the court of the Khans, the Sultans, the Byzantine emperors, Mongols, Persians, Tartars, all the barbarians who have abused humanity and who have personified injustice and justified the revolution and bloodshed.
A society whose members expect any favoritism, ignores the emulation, when individual is a means as simple as that offered in the ninth to get what you want, following the law of least effort, not used to exercise any noble activity and can not therefore improve their powers or even use, an individual expected to achieve the absurd, the improbable, can not know the existence of immutable laws that govern the universe, an individual who expects to get what he wants through valimiento a celestial pattern, nor can conceive of a God of justice, nor can in no way be a useful member of society.
Please, propitiation, exception, protection, grace, preference, predilection, fight against what should be God, against the ideal of civilization against the supreme aspiration of Humanity: Justice.
Fatal results Those who believe in the miracle-absurd, protective of Fools, an accomplice of the lazy, of the players, the murderers, thieves, of all that through them achieve what they want, these are criminals who fill our prisons and die on the gallows; those who, armed with his anting-anting, their talisman, the rosary, scapular bones Santos or shark teeth, defy the police, commit outrages and disrupt the order, relying they succeed by protecting your pintakasi heaven.
That is the product not of the schools without God, but God out of school, impossible and paradoxical, whose power is manifested Procedural and capricious exercise of sleight of hand.
Never a superstitious man will succeed, especially if the type listed above, come to be a useful citizen.
Religious schools have already borne fruit, so have given the secular
