This is the name which the natives have given the nation more war, more terrible and abnormal found in the province of Moxos.
The Spanish living in the provinces surrounding not designated by another name: the Jesuits were called Canicianas [1].
If we give credence to the traditions, the nation Canichana lived on the banks of Mamore, near the rapids that give rise to Rio Machupo, and also over the course of the same, stretching out to where now stands the Mission San-Joaquin.
Still noticeable on the western plains of Machupo, between San-Joaquin and San-Ramon, the trenches These Indians had built to ward off their enemies.
His many populations [1] were between 13 and 14 degrees south latitude and longitude 67 and 68 west of Paris, and though entirely isolated from all its neighbors, always kept guard against his wiles, bordered to the east with Itonama, west and north The Ites, south to Moxos, and the north-west with the Cayuvava.
The complexion of the Canichana, more brown than the Moxos, is little more or less like that of the Chapacuras.
As high as Moxos, height usually comes to five feet and two inches.
The wives are small in proportion to the height of men.
Their body shapes, identical to those of the Moxos, are somewhat more plump and less desvahidas; have broad shoulders and stalwart members reveal their strength, without thorough exposure to obesity.
The women in the same proportions that are noticed between Moxos.
Far away are the Canichana to have as open and above a face covered sweetness, his appearance is ferocious and hard, his big head, his face like that of the oblong Tuffs from Gran-Chaco, have very pronounced cheekbones, tiny and bent his forehead; wide nose, short and flat, and the windows wide open, big mouth, her lips thick, deep-set eyes, small and inclined to the upper extremity to its angle; girls ears, eyebrows arched, his hair and beard as well as other indigenous Moxos province.
His face is sad and disgusting ugliness, but rather squeezes state ferocity savage gloom.
The women have not the least attractive; They find the same traits in men: among also notice the absence of the gaiety and joy in the meantime carry on their faces the banner of the malignancy and indiscipline.
The language of the Canichana, which does not contain a word like unto those of other languages ??of the province, is musical, very sharp, and hard at the hearing a few times guttural sounds of certain words are composed of many consonants together as jl, tz, ts.
Almost every word ends in a vowel: esceptúanse some whose endings in ac, ec, ip, ij and ch are very rough.
The Spanish j is used frequently and keeps all its hardness, especially when coupled with the l, as in the syllable jla.
The nasal or does not exist and sounds of the x and f are unknown, whereas it is much use of the French ch and Spanish.
Canichana language is perhaps the one with more abnormalities as to the how first the words.
If Chiquitos languages ??the names of the parties the body begin with a letter, noticing the same singularity in the language of Canichana, as seen in the names eicokena (cheek), encomete (ear), Culot (eyes) this being common to everything about the man's physical.
There is however an anomaly still more singular, and that the names of all material objects belonging to animals, plants, minerals, and also to the stars, invariable principle the letter n, such as Nicole (mono), nitij (cotton), nisep (lake), nicojli (sun).
Adjectives belong to both genders.
For the rest, language does not offer this apparent anomaly: the adjectives fit to both genders.
Adjectives adhere to both genders.
Their habits are similar to those of the natives, and lived like them, scattered small tribes in the interior of the surrounding forests on the banks of the Rio Blanco or Baures, seized and hunting, and cultivating the land, or to build the thatched huts where their families lived
