Silver jewelry are many and great, although his work is very polished, except for some another piece.
The vessels are too many and better work, and some of them gold; ornaments are also many, rich and expensive.
So, although the service worship God and no wealth can be said to be excessive, however, attending the poverty of the people and their natural, it seems that exceeded this.
Towers or wooden steeples are formed of four pillars or pitchforks thick and high, with two or filed three others do so many bodies, and tejadito.
These towers are in the backyards main adjacent to the same churches, and in them many bells of various sizes, some quite large and good sounds, most are cast in these peoples.
One of the things I've noticed is that, with the churches of these people so many jewels silver, even some necessary purpose, and many of them duplicate the same use, have not used part of the silver crowns of the images of the Mother of God, glows fireweed crucifixes and saints, is very rare in which the image silver ornaments have been used whatsoever.
The same goes for the busts of Jesus of Nazareth, on the various steps of his passion, of the Virgin and other saints who take on the Holy Week processions, all these are about bad carved pieces of wood and painted worse, without any decoration on their bodies, or in walk in that place, and these are some kind of malformed litters, and it seems that should have put into this more than anything else your dedication, for, as the representation of these steps brings to mind the work of our redemption is very convenient the busts of Jesus, the Virgin and other saints are well trained and decorated, mostly among these people, they come the species by sight than by hearing, and could have used part of the rich fabrics that were used in ornaments in decent clothes of these images and other ornaments from them.
I even caught two of the people under my command which ceased at a hint of mine, the rest was practiced according to what will express Later, when this question of divine worship.
As in most current priests have followed the custom which they found, as practiced by the Indians themselves, except such a thing to have altered little consideration, and if they had any other special, I ignore.
The place of the Jesuits was replaced by religious of the three orders: Santo Domingo, San Francisco and La Merced, for each village were appointed two priests to titles cure and companion, pointing to each other synod, as mentioned above.
For the appointment of religious is to serve the use of cure formalities are kept laws that prevent the royal patronage, making the provincial nomination, presentation the Vice Patron, and giving the institution the diocese, but the companions are appointed by the provincial, and with the approval and the Vice Patron passes are to take their fate, leaving taken right in the courts of the royal treasury for the payment of their synods.
After the priest comes to the governor of the province or department lieutenant whose district is the village of their destination, having regard to their titles, order shipped to the council and administrator who in turn receive it, and will come with a living, as it is sent in the ordinances.
With this order and its securities are presented in the village, and the priest who ceases makes formal delivery of the parish, books, church, vestry and ornaments.
Attending all the council and administrator, recognize if the ornaments and jewels of the church are complete, as the first inventory, noting what to write, and give part of the immediate implementation superior.
The partners are licensed by their provincial and order of the Vice Patron, and through she is admitted without hand them anything.
Calls into question, yet I doubt if these brothers are two cures, or at least if both have equal loads.
This doubt arises from it, enjoying the same and different synods, must be seen different benefits, and therefore everyone should have their burdens attached particular or share common together all of the parish.
To that is added, if only to appointed priest is bound by the burdens of the parish, and companion to the priest I'll tackle the certification it should be given by the priest, the priest and the council, as that managed care is the people, but not, because each religion separately certification is given, but the priest can remove or put in giving his companion.
Besides this, the year of 82, by royal decree, issued edicts of the illustrious Bishop Buenos Aires, calling the priests who would oppose the parishes of ten seven Indian villages of the bishopric, and calls His Eminence for each village two individuals for priests, saying that the synod of each are 200 pesos, and added the Honourable Member Excellency that the people of Yapeyú only call one another cleric to be provided and in it.
It can be inferred that the job of healing and partner are two different benefits, each with its ancillary charges, or that all of the parish are common to both, and must divide each other equally.
But it remains the only cure appointing brings titles so, with all due formalities, and the partner, but for the enjoyment of the synod are sufficient to bring in no way can be for the administration of sacraments; with the exception of the confession, because that only leads to license the Bishop, and need for the rest of the village priest that is intended.
Although it regularly often acquiesce and fellow priests, starting each work no longer offered some dissension about this, claiming that some priests should only colleagues do what they command them determinedly, and nothing more; others Instead they want the partners have the same obligations and charges them and co want all Masses to be applied to the parishioners are of by the priest, and no one there to resolve this doubt, nor has sought to consult Superiority.
But the truth is that partners do not happen in their religion, particularly those of San Francisco, as long as they have for their retirement, telling only those who have served cures.
Of these principles that the religious born peers do not recognize superiority in priests, and they dare to force them and treat them as subjects, so that neither superior know anyone in this province, because of royal patronage of the Governor and deputy wardens are only a warning that we must consider what the Vice Patron worthy of his notice, and nothing else.
By regular and diocesan bishops, no more than Vicar or exercising any jurisdiction, and thus is no wonder that have happened many disorders in these villages, so far away the resources, and so linked the three real courts, episcopal and regular, and more frequently they participate in all three jurisdictions, the causes that originate, which gives body and promote the widespread ignorance of all.
The governor and lieutenant are far and without any knowledge of the laws, and so we can not using them, even with the method and reliability form a legal case, the religious usually does not know more than any moral theology, and no civil law, or canon.
Here there is no law professor that sometimes by not err, and others to avoid scandals, it is necessary that the most prudent yield the field to the proud, and if disorders because nature can not be tolerated as a record, and da part with him to the Superior, is so full of nonentities, some by excess and other default the higher courts are pregnant with them, and can not resolve anything.
So to view this is not surprising nothing happened, before you wonder does not happen more.
When it happens on a sick priest, who is alone in his village, and can not attend the performance of his ministry, and give part to the governor or lieutenant immediately, it has no other measure that writing a letter rogatory to another priest or partner of those in which there are two religious people, expressing the need, and if he does not want to go supplement, not be compelled.
It has happened to have the governor to write to many, without find one that would go to meet one of these needs.
Although the councils and other canonical provisions is commanded that the priests do not absent their parishes but in the time and the reasons there indicated, and the license of the prelates and others who can give them, this is not observed any of this.
Out of the frequent Absences do priests and peers within the same province of some other peoples connection with church functions, and other individuals that may leave only the people from office for some days, other absences are outside the province on the occasion to go to Buenos Aires to collect the synods, and Corrientes and Paraguay to see their relatives.
To these absences, which are always of months, and perhaps of the year or years, which is usually presented the district governor or lieutenant asking the pass for the journey to be undertaken, the that is granted as part of the government is secular, and with this single requirement They hit the road, the capital will be presented, negotiated the payment of their synods and others ranging, and not by their religion, nor by the bishop, they do charge.
I guess they have given tacit license, and the religious use of it at such times need it, because otherwise I do not know how they can compose their consciences.
Although this will make them know that the jurisdiction of priests does not extend the jurisdiction outside, having no particular committee of the bishop or vicar general of the bishopric, and so it should not hear any external cause or impose convictions or arrest Indians much less fulminate censures, as they have done before, because this is reserved for ecclesiastical judges, who are not priests, but even if they abstain, it is with very great disgust.
In the way of celebrating the divine office seems to have shaped the practice cures ancient peoples had, learning from the Indians, because the uniformity substantial as is observed in all the towns it says a lot.
Every Sunday and holidays of the year is announced the day before the prayers, with ringing of bells, repeated at dawn, and sunrise, or shortly after the first ring is given to call people to the church, repeating two with intermission of six or eight minutes between and another.
At which time meets all the local people in the church, and there, doing chorus any tax or other old educated, and sometimes more skilled guys, pray the prayers Christian doctrine, then the priest or partner is, and explains some point of doctrine, using a little moral to the same extent as regularly spent half an hour; and concluded with the bell warn that it will begin the Mass, the priest celebrating the or partner with some solemnity, because the music is large, and regularly trained musicians.
The altar is decorated with many lights, some wax and tallow other, accompanying the priest at the altar six boys from ten to twelve years, dressed in Autumn Sotanillo the days the church dressed in white or red, and on the other colors are the same as the church uses, and more or less expensive rochets and decent, as the Day holiday.
Two of these guys serve the censer and navetas other two candlesticks and the remaining two go to the rest of the altar, they are quite skilled and ready.
Besides these there are around the altar boys two or more Indians sacristanes, but no ecclesiastical robe, but neat, they are there to pierce the veils, set fire censers, or to pull up chairs and other similar occupations.
Upon exiting the Mass Indians announce at the door of the church, the threshold for inside, with a touch of boxes and trumpets, for never missing six or eight in this occupation, causing such uproar to bewilder those who are in church, while repeating the same gospel, the Sanctus, to lift host and chalice, the second rise and the last gospel.
If some have confessed, given the Holy Communion after the priest consumes, and Mass killing sing the treble of the music on the blessed and praised, in a tone so sweet and graceful, which repeats all the common people and in destroying retire to their homes.
In villages where there are two monks would be most appropriate in the days of obligation for the Indians, one Mass said earlier, that those patients who attend were to hear, while leaving other caregivers, and so those or those for their nakedness can not go to church, would be provided by others and other clothing to hear Mass, but it is very rare in people who practice it.
